But later on , when tea was over and she and the doctor were left alone , she did not feel embarrassed after all .
Instead , she felt delightfully happy and at home .
Dr. Hamilton put one so at ease .
She told him all about Tom 's letter and her subsequent revolt .
Dr. Hamilton never once made the mistake of smiling .
He listened and approved and sympathized .
`` So I 'm determined I wo n't go back , '' concluded Mary Isabel , `` unless she asks me to -- and Louisa will never do that .
Ella will be glad enough to have me for a while ; she has five children and ca n't get any help . ''
The doctor shrugged his shoulders .
He thought of Mary Isabel as unofficial drudge to Ella Kemble and her family .
Then he looked at the little silvery figure by the window .
`` I think I can suggest a better plan , '' he said gently and tenderly .
`` Suppose you stay here -- as my wife .
I 've always wanted to ask you that but I feared it was no use because I knew Louisa would oppose it and I did not think you would consent if she did not .
I think , '' the doctor leaned forward and took Mary Isabel 's fluttering hand in his , `` I think we can be very happy here , dear . ''
Mary Isabel flushed crimson and her heart beat wildly .
She knew now that she loved Dr. Hamilton -- and Tom would have liked it -- yes , Tom would .
She remembered how Tom hated the thought of his sisters being old maids .
`` I -- think -- so -- too , '' she faltered shyly .
`` Then , '' said the doctor briskly , `` what is the matter with our being married right here and now ? ''
`` Married ! ''
`` Yes , of course .
Here we are in a state where no licence is required , a minister in the house , and you all dressed in the most beautiful wedding silk imaginable .
You must see , if you just look at it calmly , how much better it will be than going up to Mrs. Kemble 's and thereby publishing your difference with Louisa to all the village .
I 'll give you fifteen minutes to get used to the idea and then I 'll call Jim down . ''
Mary Isabel put her hands to her face .
`` You -- you 're like a whirlwind , '' she gasped .
`` You take away my breath . ''
`` Think it over , '' said the doctor in a businesslike voice .
Mary Isabel thought -- thought very hard for a few moments .
What would Tom have said ?
Was it probable that Tom would have approved of such marrying in haste ?
Mary Isabel came to the decision that he would have preferred it to having family jars bruited abroad .
Moreover , Mary Isabel had never liked Ella Kemble very much .
Going to her was only one degree better than going back to Louisa .
At last Mary Isabel took her hands down from her face .
`` Well ? ''
said the doctor persuasively as she did so .
`` I will consent on one condition , '' said Mary Isabel firmly .
`` And that is , that you will let me send word over to Louisa that I am going to be married and that she may come and see the ceremony if she will .
Louisa has behaved very unkindly in this matter , but after all she is my sister -- and she has been good to me in some ways -- and I am not going to give her a chance to say that I got married in this -- this headlong-fashion and never let her know . ''
`` Tommy can take the word over , '' said the doctor .
Mary Isabel went to the doctor 's desk and wrote a very brief note .
Dear Louisa : I am going to be married to Dr. Hamilton right away .
I 've seen him often at the shore this summer .
I would like you to be present at the ceremony if you choose .
Mary Isabel .
Tommy ran across the field with the note .
It had now ceased raining and the clouds were breaking .
Mary Isabel thought that a good omen .
She and the doctor watched Tommy from the window .
They saw Louisa come to the door , take the note , and shut the door in Tommy 's face .
Ten minutes later she reappeared , habited in her mackintosh , with her second-best bonnet on .
`` She 's -- coming , '' said Mary Isabel , trembling .
The doctor put his arm protectingly about the little lady .
Mary Isabel tossed her head .
`` Oh , I 'm not -- I 'm only excited .
I shall never be afraid of Louisa again . ''
Louisa came grimly over the field , up the verandah steps , and into the room without knocking .
`` Mary Isabel , '' she said , glaring at her sister and ignoring the doctor entirely , `` did you mean what you said in that letter ? ''
`` Yes , I did , '' said Mary Isabel firmly .
`` You are going to be married to that man in this shameless , indecent haste ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` And nothing I can say will have the least effect on you ? ''
`` Not the slightest . ''
`` Then , '' said Louisa , more grimly than ever , `` all I ask of you is to come home and be married from under your father 's roof .
Do have that much respect for your parents ' memory , at least . ''
`` Of course I will , '' cried Mary Isabel impulsively , softening at once .
`` Of course we will -- wo n't we ? ''
she asked , turning prettily to the doctor .
`` Just as you say , '' he answered gallantly .
Louisa snorted .
`` I 'll go home and air the parlour , '' she said .
`` It 's lucky I baked that fruitcake Monday .
You can come when you 're ready . ''
She stalked home across the field .
In a few minutes the doctor and Mary Isabel followed , and behind them came the young minister , carrying his blue book under his arm , and trying hard and not altogether successfully to look grave .
The Twins and a Wedding Sometimes Johnny and I wonder what would really have happened if we had never started for Cousin Pamelia 's wedding .
I think that Ted would have come back some time ; but Johnny says he does n't believe he ever would , and Johnny ought to know , because Johnny 's a boy .
Anyhow , he could n't have come back for four years .
However , we did start for the wedding and so things came out all right , and Ted said we were a pair of twin special Providences .
Johnny and I fully expected to go to Cousin Pamelia 's wedding because we had always been such chums with her .
And she did write to Mother to be sure and bring us , but Father and Mother did n't want to be bothered with us .
That is the plain truth of the matter .
They are good parents , as parents go in this world ; I do n't think we could have picked out much better , all things considered ; but Johnny and I have always known that they never want to take us with them anywhere if they can get out of it .
Uncle Fred says that it is no wonder , since we are a pair of holy terrors for getting into mischief and keeping everybody in hot water .
But I think we are pretty good , considering all the temptations we have to be otherwise .
And , of course , twins have just twice as many as ordinary children .
Anyway , Father and Mother said we would have to stay home with Hannah Jane .
This decision came upon us , as Johnny says , like a bolt from the blue .
At first we could n't believe they were not joking .
Why , we felt that we simply had to go to Pamelia 's wedding .
We had never been to a wedding in our lives and we were just aching to see what it would be like .
Besides , we had written a marriage ode to Pamelia and we wanted to present it to her .
Johnny was to recite it , and he had been practising it out behind the carriage house for a week .
I wrote the most of it .
I can write poetry as slick as anything .
Johnny helped me hunt out the rhymes .
That is the hardest thing about writing poetry , it is so difficult to find rhymes .
Johnny would find me a rhyme and then I would write a line to suit it , and we got on swimmingly .
When we realized that Father and Mother meant what they said we were just too miserable to live .
When I went to bed that night I simply pulled the clothes over my face and howled quietly .
I could n't help it when I thought of Pamelia 's white silk dress and tulle veil and flower girls and all the rest .
Johnny said it was the wedding dinner he thought about .
Boys are like that , you know .
Father and Mother went away on the early morning train , telling us to be good twins and not bother Hannah Jane .
It would have been more to the point if they had told Hannah Jane not to bother us .
She worries more about our bringing up than Mother does .
I was sitting on the front doorstep after they had gone when Johnny came around the corner , looking so mysterious and determined that I knew he had thought of something splendid .
`` Sue , '' said Johnny impressively , `` if you have any real sporting blood in you now is the time to show it .
If you 've enough grit we 'll get to Pamelia 's wedding after all . ''
`` How ? ''
I said as soon as I was able to say anything .
`` We 'll just go .
We 'll take the ten o'clock train .
It will get to Marsden by eleven-thirty and that 'll be in plenty of time .
The wedding is n't until twelve . ''
`` But we 've never been on the train alone , and we 've never been to Marsden at all ! ''
I gasped .
`` Oh , of course , if you 're going to hatch up all sorts of difficulties ! ''
said Johnny scornfully .
`` I thought you had more spunk ! ''
`` Oh , I have , Johnny , '' I said eagerly .
`` I 'm all spunk .
And I 'll do anything you 'll do .
But wo n't Father and Mother be perfectly savage ? ''
`` Of course .
But we 'll be there and they ca n't send us home again , so we 'll see the wedding .
We 'll be punished afterwards all right , but we 'll have had the fun , do n't you see ? ''
I saw .
I went right upstairs to dress , trusting everything blindly to Johnny .
I put on my best pale blue shirred silk hat and my blue organdie dress and my high-heeled slippers .
Johnny whistled when he saw me , but he never said a word ; there are times when Johnny is a duck .
We slipped away when Hannah Jane was feeding the hens .
`` I 'll buy the tickets , '' explained Johnny .
`` I 've got enough money left out of my last month 's allowance because I did n't waste it all on candy as you did .
You 'll have to pay me back when you get your next month 's jink , remember .
I 'll ask the conductor to tell us when we get to Marsden .
Uncle Fred 's house is n't far from the station , and we 'll be sure to know it by all the cherry trees round it . ''
It sounded easy , and it was easy .
We had a jolly ride , and finally the conductor came along and said , `` Here 's your jumping-off place , kiddies . ''
Johnny did n't like being called a kiddy , but I saw the conductor 's eye resting admiringly on my blue silk hat and I forgave him .
Marsden was a pretty little village , and away up the road we saw Uncle Fred 's place , for it was fairly smothered in cherry trees all white with lovely bloom .
We started for it as fast as we could go , for we knew we had no time to lose .
It is perfectly dreadful trying to hurry when you have on high-heeled shoes , but I said nothing and just tore along , for I knew Johnny would have no sympathy for me .
We finally reached the house and turned in at the open gate of the lawn .
I thought everything looked very peaceful and quiet for a wedding to be under way and I had a sickening idea that it was too late and it was all over .
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Johnny , cross as a bear , because he was really afraid of it too .
`` I suppose everybody is inside the house .
No , there are two people over there by that bench .
Let us go and ask them if this is the right place , because if it is n't we have no time to lose . ''
We ran across the lawn to the two people .
One of them was a young lady , the very prettiest young lady I had ever seen .
She was tall and stately , just like the heroine in a book , and she had lovely curly brown hair and big blue eyes and the most dazzling complexion .
But she looked very cross and disdainful and I knew the minute I saw her that she had been quarrelling with the young man .
He was standing in front of her and he was as handsome as a prince .
But he looked angry too .
Altogether , you never saw a crosser-looking couple .
Just as we came up we heard the young lady say , `` What you ask is ridiculous and impossible , Ted .
I ca n't get married at two days ' notice and I do n't mean to be . ''
And he said , `` Very well , Una , I am sorry you think so .
You would not think so if you really cared anything for me .
It is just as well I have found out you do n't .
I am going away in two days ' time and I shall not return in a hurry , Una . ''
`` I do not care if you never return , '' she said .
That was a fib and well I knew it .
But the young man did n't -- men are so stupid at times .
He swung around on one foot without replying and he would have gone in another second if he had not nearly fallen over Johnny and me .
`` Please , sir , '' said Johnny respectfully , but hurriedly .
`` We 're looking for Mr. Frederick Murray 's place .
Is this it ? ''
`` No , '' said the young man a little gruffly .
`` This is Mrs. Franklin 's place .
Frederick Murray lives at Marsden , ten miles away . ''
My heart gave a jump and then stopped beating .
I know it did , although Johnny says it is impossible .
`` Is n't this Marsden ? ''
cried Johnny chokily .
`` No , this is Harrowsdeane , '' said the young man , a little more mildly .
I could n't help it .
I was tired and warm and so disappointed .
I sat right down on the rustic seat behind me and burst into tears , as the story-books say .
`` Oh , do n't cry , dearie , '' said the young lady in a very different voice from the one she had used before .
She sat down beside me and put her arms around me .
`` We 'll take you over to Marsden if you 've got off at the wrong station . ''
`` But it will be too late , '' I sobbed wildly .
`` The wedding is to be at twelve -- and it 's nearly that now -- and oh , Johnny , I do think you might try to comfort me ! ''
For Johnny had stuck his hands in his pockets and turned his back squarely on me .
I thought it so unkind of him .
I did n't know then that it was because he was afraid he was going to cry right there before everybody , and I felt deserted by all the world .
`` Tell me all about it , '' said the young lady .
So I told her as well as I could all about the wedding and how wild we were to see it and why we were running away to it .
`` And now it 's all no use , '' I wailed .
`` And we 'll be punished when they find out just the same .
I would n't mind being punished if we had n't missed the wedding .
We 've never seen a wedding -- and Pamelia was to wear a white silk dress -- and have flower girls -- and oh , my heart is just broken .
I shall never get over this -- never -- if I live to be as old as Methuselah . ''
`` What can we do for them ? ''
said the young lady , looking up at the young man and smiling a little .
She seemed to have forgotten that they had just quarrelled .
`` I ca n't bear to see children disappointed .
I remember my own childhood too well . ''
`` I really do n't know what we can do , '' said the young man , smiling back , `` unless we get married right here and now for their sakes .
If it is a wedding they want to see and nothing else will do them , that is the only idea I can suggest . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said the young lady .
But she said it as if she would rather like to be persuaded it was n't nonsense .
I looked up at her .
`` Oh , if you have any notion of being married I wish you would right off , '' I said eagerly .
`` Any wedding would do just as well as Pamelia 's .
Please do . ''
The young lady laughed .
`` One might just as well be married at two hours ' notice as two days ' , '' she said .
`` Una , '' said the young man , bending towards her , `` will you marry me here and now ?
Do n't send me away alone to the other side of the world , Una . ''
`` What on earth would Auntie say ? ''
said Una helplessly .
`` Mrs. Franklin would n't object if you told her you were going to be married in a balloon . ''
`` I do n't see how we could arrange -- oh , Ted , it 's absurd . '' ''
'T is n't .
It 's highly sensible .
I 'll go straight to town on my wheel for the licence and ring and I 'll be back in an hour .
You can be ready by that time . ''
For a moment Una hesitated .
Then she said suddenly to me , `` What is your name , dearie ? ''
`` Sue Murray , '' I said , `` and this is my brother , Johnny .
We 're twins .
We 've been twins for ten years . ''
`` Well , Sue , I 'm going to let you decide for me .
This gentleman here , whose name is Theodore Prentice , has to start for Japan in two days and will have to remain there for four years .
He received his orders only yesterday .
He wants me to marry him and go with him .
Now , I shall leave it to you to consent or refuse for me .
Shall I marry him or shall I not ? ''
`` Marry him , of course , '' said I promptly .
Johnny says she knew I would say that when she left it to me .
`` Very well , '' said Una calmly .
`` Ted , you may go for the necessaries .
Sue , you must be my bridesmaid and Johnny shall be best man .
Come , we 'll go into the house and break the news to Auntie . ''
I never felt so interested and excited in my life .
It seemed too good to be true .
Una and I went into the house and there we found the sweetest , pinkest , plumpest old lady asleep in an easy-chair .
Una wakened her and said , `` Auntie , I 'm going to be married to Mr. Prentice in an hour 's time . ''
That was a most wonderful old lady !
All she said was , `` Dear me ! ''
You 'd have thought Una had simply told her she was going out for a walk .
`` Ted has gone for licence and ring and minister , '' Una went on .
`` We shall be married out under the cherry trees and I 'll wear my new white organdie .
We shall leave for Japan in two days .
These children are Sue and Johnny Murray who have come out to see a wedding -- any wedding .
Ted and I are getting married just to please them . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
said the old lady again .
`` This is rather sudden .
Still -- if you must .
Well , I 'll go and see what there is in the house to eat . ''
She toddled away , smiling , and Una turned to me .
She was laughing , but there were tears in her eyes .
`` You blessed accidents ! ''
she said , with a little tremble in her voice .
`` If you had n't happened just then Ted would have gone away in a rage and I might never have seen him again .
Come now , Sue , and help me dress . ''
Johnny stayed in the hall and I went upstairs with Una .
We had such an exciting time getting her dressed .
She had the sweetest white organdie you ever saw , all frills and laces .
I 'm sure Pamelia 's silk could n't have been half so pretty .
But she had no veil , and I felt rather disappointed about that .
Then there was a knock at the door and Mrs. Franklin came in , with her arms full of something all fine and misty like a lacy cobweb .
`` I 've brought you my wedding veil , dearie , '' she said .
`` I wore it forty years ago .
And God bless you , dearie .
I ca n't stop a minute .
The boy is killing the chickens and Bridget is getting ready to broil them .
Mrs. Jenner 's son across the road has just gone down to the bakery for a wedding cake . ''
With that she toddled off again .
She was certainly a wonderful old lady .
I just thought of Mother in her place .
Well , Mother would simply have gone wild entirely .
When Una was dressed she looked as beautiful as a dream .
The boy had finished killing the chickens , and Mrs. Franklin had sent him up with a basket of roses for us , and we had each the loveliest bouquet .
Before long Ted came back with the minister , and the next thing we knew we were all standing out on the lawn under the cherry trees and Una and Ted were being married .
I was too happy to speak .
I had never thought of being a bridesmaid in my wildest dreams and here I was one .
How thankful I was that I had put on my blue organdie and my shirred hat !
I was n't a bit nervous and I do n't believe Una was either .
Mrs. Franklin stood at one side with a smudge of flour on her nose , and she had forgotten to take off her apron .
Bridget and the boy watched us from the kitchen garden .
It was all like a beautiful , bewildering dream .
But the ceremony was horribly solemn .
I am sure I shall never have the courage to go through with anything of the sort , but Johnny says I will change my mind when I grow up .
When it was all over I nudged Johnny and said `` Ode '' in a fierce whisper .
Johnny immediately stepped out before Una and recited it .
Pamelia 's name was mentioned three times and of course he should have put Una in place of it , but he forgot .
You ca n't remember everything .
`` You dear funny darlings ! ''
said Una , kissing us both .
Johnny did n't like that , but he said he did n't mind it in a bride .
Then we had dinner , and I thought Mrs. Franklin more wonderful than ever .
I could n't have believed any woman could have got up such a spread at two hours ' notice .
Of course , some credit must be given to Bridget and the boy .
Johnny and I were hungry enough by this time and we enjoyed that repast to the full .
We went home on the evening train .
Ted and Una came to the station with us , and Una said she would write me when she got to Japan , and Ted said he would be obliged to us forever and ever .
When we got home we found Hannah Jane and Father and Mother -- who had arrived there an hour before us -- simply distracted .
They were so glad to see us safe and sound that they did n't even scold us , and when Father heard our story he laughed until the tears came into his eyes .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories,_1909_to_1922.txt.out
A Golden Wedding The land dropped abruptly down from the gate , and a thick , shrubby growth of young apple orchard almost hid the little weather-grey house from the road .
This was why the young man who opened the sagging gate could not see that it was boarded up , and did not cease his cheerful whistling until he had pressed through the crowding trees and found himself almost on the sunken stone doorstep over which in olden days honeysuckle had been wont to arch .
Now only a few straggling , uncared-for vines clung forlornly to the shingles , and the windows were , as has been said , all boarded up .
The whistle died on the young man 's lips and an expression of blank astonishment and dismay settled down on his face -- a good , kindly , honest face it was , although perhaps it did not betoken any pronounced mental gifts on the part of its owner .
`` What can have happened ? ''
he said to himself .
`` Uncle Tom and Aunt Sally ca n't be dead -- I 'd have seen their deaths in the paper if they was .
And I 'd a-thought if they 'd moved away it 'd been printed too .
They ca n't have been gone long -- that flower-bed must have been made up last spring .
Well , this is a kind of setback for a fellow .
Here I 've been tramping all the way from the station , a-thinking how good it would be to see Aunt Sally 's sweet old face again , and hear Uncle Tom 's laugh , and all I find is a boarded-up house going to seed .
S'pose I might as well toddle over to Stetsons ' and inquire if they have n't disappeared , too . ''
He went through the old firs back of the lot and across the field to a rather shabby house beyond .
A cheery-faced woman answered his knock and looked at him in a puzzled fashion .
`` Have you forgot me , Mrs. Stetson ?
Do n't you remember Lovell Stevens and how you used to give him plum tarts when he 'd bring your turkeys home ? ''
Mrs. Stetson caught both his hands in a hearty clasp .
`` I guess I have n't forgotten ! ''
she declared .
`` Well , well , and you 're Lovell !
I think I ought to know your face , though you 've changed a lot .
Fifteen years have made a big difference in you .
Come right in .
Pa , this is Lovell -- you mind Lovell , the boy Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom had for years ? ''
`` Reckon I do , '' drawled Jonah Stetson with a friendly grin .
`` Ai n't likely to forget some of the capers you used to be cutting up .
You 've filled out considerable .
Where have you been for the last ten years ?
Aunt Sally fretted a lot over you , thinking you was dead or gone to the bad . ''
Lovell 's face clouded .
`` I know I ought to have written , '' he said repentantly , `` but you know I 'm a terrible poor scholar , and I 'd do most anything than try to write a letter .
But where 's Uncle Tom and Aunt Sally gone ?
Surely they ai n't dead ? ''
`` No , '' said Jonah Stetson slowly , `` no -- but I guess they 'd rather be .
They 're in the poorhouse . ''
`` The poorhouse !
Aunt Sally in the poorhouse ! ''
exclaimed Lovell .
`` Yes , and it 's a burning shame , '' declared Mrs. Stetson .
`` Aunt Sally 's just breaking her heart from the disgrace of it .
But it did n't seem as if it could be helped .
Uncle Tom got so crippled with rheumatism he could n't work and Aunt Sally was too frail to do anything .
They had n't any relations and there was a mortgage on the house . ''
`` There was n't any when I went away . ''
`` No ; they had to borrow money six years ago when Uncle Tom had his first spell of rheumatic fever .
This spring it was clear that there was nothing for them but the poorhouse .
They went three months ago and terrible hard they took it , especially Aunt Sally , I felt awful about it myself .
Jonah and I would have took them if we could , but we just could n't -- we 've nothing but Jonah 's wages and we have eight children and not a bit of spare room .
I go over to see Aunt Sally as often as I can and take her some little thing , but I dunno 's she would n't rather not see anybody than see them in the poorhouse . ''
Lovell weighed his hat in his hands and frowned over it reflectively .
`` Who owns the house now ? ''
`` Peter Townley .
He held the mortgage .
And all the old furniture was sold too , and that most killed Aunt Sally .
But do you know what she 's fretting over most of all ?
She and Uncle Tom will have been married fifty years in a fortnight 's time and Aunt Sally thinks it 's awful to have to spend their golden wedding anniversary in the poorhouse .
She talks about it all the time .
You 're not going , Lovell '' -- for Lovell had risen -- `` you must stop with us , since your old home is closed up .
We 'll scare you up a shakedown to sleep on and you 're welcome as welcome .
I have n't forgot the time you caught Mary Ellen just as she was tumbling into the well . ''
`` Thank you , I 'll stay to tea , '' said Lovell , sitting down again , `` but I guess I 'll make my headquarters up at the station hotel as long as I stay round here .
It 's kind of more central . ''
`` Got on pretty well out west , hey ? ''
queried Jonah .
`` Pretty well for a fellow who had nothing but his two hands to depend on when he went out , '' said Lovell cautiously .
`` I 've only been a labouring man , of course , but I 've saved up enough to start a little store when I go back .
That 's why I came east for a trip now -- before I 'd be tied down to business .
I was hankering to see Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom once more .
I 'll never forget how kind and good they was to me .
There I was , when Dad died , a little sinner of eleven , just heading for destruction .
They give me a home and all the schooling I ever had and all the love I ever got .
It was Aunt Sally 's teachings made as much a man of me as I am .
I never forgot 'em and I 've tried to live up to 'em . ''
After tea Lovell said he thought he 'd stroll up the road and pay Peter Townley a call .
Jonah Stetson and his wife looked at each other when he had gone .
`` Got something in his eye , '' nodded Jonah .
`` Him and Peter were n't never much of friends . ''
`` Maybe Aunt Sally 's bread is coming back to her after all , '' said his wife .
`` People used to be hard on Lovell .
But I always liked him and I 'm real glad he 's turned out so well . ''
Lovell came back to the Stetsons ' the next evening .
In the interval he had seen Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom .
The meeting had been both glad and sad .
Lovell had also seen other people .
`` I 've bought Uncle Tom 's old house from Peter Townley , '' he said quietly , `` and I want you folks to help me out with my plans .
Uncle Tom and Aunt Sally ai n't going to spend their golden wedding in the poorhouse -- no , sir .
They 'll spend it in their own home with their old friends about them .
But they 're not to know anything about it till the very night .
Do you s ` pose any of the old furniture could be got back ? ''
`` I believe every stick of it could , '' said Mrs. Stetson excitedly .
`` Most of it was bought by folks living handy and I do n't believe one of them would refuse to sell it back .
Uncle Tom 's old chair is here to begin with -- Aunt Sally give me that herself .
She said she could n't bear to have it sold .
Mrs. Isaac Appleby at the station bought the set of pink-sprigged china and James Parker bought the grandfather 's clock and the whatnot is at the Stanton Grays ' . ''
For the next fortnight Lovell and Mrs. Stetson did so much travelling round together that Jonah said genially he might as well be a bachelor as far as meals and buttons went .
They visited every house where a bit of Aunt Sally 's belongings could be found .
Very successful they were too , and at the end of their jaunting the interior of the little house behind the apple trees looked very much as it had looked when Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom lived there .
Meanwhile , Mrs. Stetson had been revolving a design in her mind , and one afternoon she did some canvassing on her own account .
The next time she saw Lovell she said : `` We ai n't going to let you do it all .
The women folks around here are going to furnish the refreshments for the golden wedding and the girls are going to decorate the house with golden rod . ''
The evening of the wedding anniversary came .
Everybody in Blair was in the plot , including the matron of the poorhouse .
That night Aunt Sally watched the sunset over the hills through bitter tears .
`` I never thought I 'd be celebrating my golden wedding in the poorhouse , '' she sobbed .
Uncle Tom put his twisted hand on her shaking old shoulder , but before he could utter any words of comfort Lovell Stevens stood before them .
`` Just get your bonnet on , Aunt Sally , '' he cried jovially , `` and both of you come along with me .
I 've got a buggy here for you ... and you might as well say goodbye to this place , for you 're not coming back to it any more . ''
`` Lovell , oh , what do you mean ? ''
said Aunt Sally tremulously .
`` I 'll explain what I mean as we drive along .
Hurry up -- the folks are waiting . ''
When they reached the little old house , it was all aglow with light .
Aunt Sally gave a cry as she entered it .
All her old household goods were back in their places .
There were some new ones too , for Lovell had supplied all that was lacking .
The house was full of their old friends and neighbours .
Mrs. Stetson welcomed them home again .
`` Oh , Tom , '' whispered Aunt Sally , tears of happiness streaming down her old face , `` oh , Tom , is n't God good ? ''
They had a right royal celebration , and a supper such as the Blair housewives could produce .
There were speeches and songs and tales .
Lovell kept himself in the background and helped Mrs. Stetson cut cake in the pantry all the evening .
But when the guests had gone , he went to Aunt Sally and Uncle Tom , who were sitting by the fire .
`` Here 's a little golden wedding present for you , '' he said awkwardly , putting a purse into Aunt Sally 's hand .
`` I reckon there 's enough there to keep you from ever having to go to the poorhouse again and if not , there 'll be more where that comes from when it 's done . ''
There were twenty-five bright twenty-dollar gold pieces in the purse .
`` We ca n't take it , Lovell , '' protested Aunt Sally .
`` You ca n't afford it . ''
`` Do n't you worry about that , '' laughed Lovell .
`` Out west men do n't think much of a little wad like that .
I owe you far more than can be paid in cash , Aunt Sally .
You must take it -- I want to know there 's a little home here for me and two kind hearts in it , no matter where I roam . ''
`` God bless you , Lovell , '' said Uncle Tom huskily .
`` You do n't know what you 've done for Sally and me . ''
That night , when Lovell went to the little bedroom off the parlour -- for Aunt Sally , rejoicing in the fact that she was again mistress of a spare room , would not hear of his going to the station hotel -- he gazed at his reflection in the gilt-framed mirror soberly .
`` You 've just got enough left to pay your passage back west , old fellow , '' he said , `` and then it 's begin all over again just where you begun before .
But Aunt Sally 's face was worth it all -- yes , sir .
And you 've got your two hands still and an old couple 's prayers and blessings .
Not such a bad capital , Lovell , not such a bad capital . ''
A Redeeming Sacrifice The dance at Byron Lyall 's was in full swing .
Toff Leclerc , the best fiddler in three counties , was enthroned on the kitchen table and from the glossy brown violin , which his grandfather brought from Grand Pré , was conjuring music which made even stiff old Aunt Phemy want to show her steps .
Around the kitchen sat a row of young men and women , and the open sitting-room doorway was crowded with the faces of non-dancing guests who wanted to watch the sets .
An eight-hand reel had just been danced and the girls , giddy from the much swinging of the final figure , had been led back to their seats .
Mattie Lyall came out with a dipper of water and sprinkled the floor , from which a fine dust was rising .
Toff 's violin purred under his hands as he waited for the next set to form .
The dancers were slow about it .
There was not the rush for the floor that there had been earlier in the evening , for the supper table was now spread in the dining-room and most of the guests were hungry .
`` Fill up dere , boys , '' shouted the fiddler impatiently .
`` Bring out your gals for de nex ' set . ''
After a moment Paul King led out Joan Shelley from the shadowy corner where they had been sitting .
They had already danced several sets together ; Joan had not danced with anybody else that evening .
As they stood together under the light from the lamp on the shelf above them , many curious and disapproving eyes watched them .
Connor Mitchell , who had been standing in the open outer doorway with the moonlight behind him , turned abruptly on his heel and went out .
Paul King leaned his head against the wall and watched the watchers with a smiling , defiant face as they waited for the set to form .
He was a handsome fellow , with the easy , winning ways that women love .
His hair curled in bronze masses about his head ; his dark eyes were long and drowsy and laughing ; there was a swarthy bloom on his round cheeks ; and his lips were as red and beguiling as a girl 's .
A bad egg was Paul King , with a bad past and a bad future .
He was shiftless and drunken ; ugly tales were told of him .
Not a man in Lyall 's house that night but grudged him the privilege of standing up with Joan Shelley .
Joan was a slight , blossom-like girl in white , looking much like the pale , sweet-scented house rose she wore in her dark hair .
Her face was colourless and young , very pure and softly curved .
She had wonderfully sweet , dark blue eyes , generally dropped down , with notably long black lashes .
There were many showier girls in the groups around her , but none half so lovely .
She made all the rosy-cheeked beauties seem coarse and over-blown .
She left in Paul 's clasp the hand by which he had led her out on the floor .
Now and then he shifted his gaze from the faces before him to hers .
When he did , she always looked up and they exchanged glances as if they had been utterly alone .
Three other couples gradually took the floor and the reel began .
Joan drifted through the figures with the grace of a wind-blown leaf .
Paul danced with rollicking abandon , seldom taking his eyes from Joan 's face .
When the last mad whirl was over , Joan 's brother came up and told her in an angry tone to go into the next room and dance no more , since she would dance with only one man .
Joan looked at Paul .
That look meant that she would do as he , and none other , told her .
Paul nodded easily -- he did not want any fuss just then -- and the girl went obediently into the room .
As she turned from him , Paul coolly reached out his hand and took the rose from her hair ; then , with a triumphant glance around the room , he went out .
The autumn night was very clear and chill , with a faint , moaning wind blowing up from the northwest over the sea that lay shimmering before the door .
Out beyond the cove the boats were nodding and curtsying on the swell , and over the shore fields the great red star of the lighthouse flared out against the silvery sky .
Paul , with a whistle , sauntered down the sandy lane , thinking of Joan .
How mightily he loved her -- he , Paul King , who had made a mock of so many women and had never loved before !
Ah , and she loved him .
She had never said so in words , but eyes and tones had said it -- she , Joan Shelley , the pick and pride of the Harbour girls , whom so many men had wooed , winning their trouble for their pains .
He had won her ; she was his and his only , for the asking .
His heart was seething with pride and triumph and passion as he strode down to the shore and flung himself on the cold sand in the black shadow of Michael Brown 's beached boat .
Byron Lyall , a grizzled , elderly man , half farmer , half fisherman , and Maxwell Holmes , the Prospect schoolteacher , came up to the boat presently .
Paul lay softly and listened to what they were saying .
He was not troubled by any sense of dishonour .
Honour was something Paul King could not lose since it was something he had never possessed .
They were talking of him and Joan .
`` What a shame that a girl like Joan Shelley should throw herself away on a man like that , '' Holmes said .
Byron Lyall removed the pipe he was smoking and spat reflectively at his shadow .
`` Darned shame , '' he agreed .
`` That girl 's life will be ruined if she marries him , plum ' ruined , and marry him she will .
He 's bewitched her -- darned if I can understand it .
A dozen better men have wanted her -- Connor Mitchell for one .
And he 's a honest , steady fellow with a good home to offer her .
If King had left her alone , she 'd have taken Connor .
She used to like him well enough .
But that 's all over .
She 's infatuated with King , the worthless scamp .
She 'll marry him and be sorry for it to her last day .
He 's bad clear through and always will be .
Why , look you , Teacher , most men pull up a bit when they 're courting a girl , no matter how wild they 've been and will be again .
Paul has n't .
It has n't made any difference .
He was dead drunk night afore last at the Harbour head , and he has n't done a stroke of work for a month .
And yet Joan Shelley 'll take him . ''
`` What are her people thinking of to let her go with him ? ''
asked Holmes .
`` She has n't any but her brother .
He 's against Paul , of course , but it wo n't matter .
The girl 's fancy 's caught and she 'll go her own gait to ruin .
Ruin , I tell ye .
If she marries that handsome ne'er - do-well , she 'll be a wretched woman all her days and none to pity her . ''
The two moved away then , and Paul lay motionless , face downward on the sand , his lips pressed against Joan 's sweet , crushed rose .
He felt no anger over Byron Lyall 's unsparing condemnation .
He knew it was true , every word of it .
He was a worthless scamp and always would be .
He knew that perfectly well .
It was in his blood .
None of his race had ever been respectable and he was worse than them all .
He had no intention of trying to reform because he could not and because he did not even want to .
He was not fit to touch Joan 's hand .
Yet he had meant to marry her !
But to spoil her life !
Would it do that ?
Yes , it surely would .
And if he were out of the way , taking his baleful charm out of her life , Connor Mitchell might and doubtless would win her yet and give her all he could not .
The man suddenly felt his eyes wet with tears .
He had never shed a tear in his daredevil life before , but they came hot and stinging now .
Something he had never known or thought of before entered into his passion and purified it .
He loved Joan .
Did he love her well enough to stand aside and let another take the sweetness and grace that was now his own ?
Did he love her well enough to save her from the poverty-stricken , shamed life she must lead with him ?
Did he love her better than himself ?
`` I ai n't fit to think of her , '' he groaned .
`` I never did a decent thing in my life , as they say .
But how can I give her up -- God , how can I ? ''
He lay still a long time after that , until the moonlight crept around the boat and drove away the shadow .
Then he got up and went slowly down to the water 's edge with Joan 's rose , all wet with his unaccustomed tears , in his hands .
Slowly and reverently he plucked off the petals and scattered them on the ripples , where they drifted lightly off like fairy shallops on moonshine .
When the last one had fluttered from his fingers , he went back to the house and hunted up Captain Alec Matheson , who was smoking his pipe in a corner of the verandah and watching the young folks dancing through the open door .
The two men talked together for some time .
When the dance broke up and the guests straggled homeward , Paul sought Joan .
Rob Shelley had his own girl to see home and relinquished the guardianship of his sister with a scowl .
Paul strode out of the kitchen and down the steps at the side of Joan , smiling with his usual daredeviltry .
He whistled noisily all the way up the lane .
`` Great little dance , '' he said .
`` My last in Prospect for a spell , I guess . ''
`` Why ? ''
asked Joan wonderingly .
`` Oh , I 'm going to take a run down to South America in Matheson 's schooner .
Lord knows when I 'll come back .
This old place has got too deadly dull to suit me .
I 'm going to look for something livelier . ''
Joan 's lips turned ashen under the fringes of her white fascinator .
She trembled violently and put one of her small brown hands up to her throat .
`` You -- you are not coming back ? ''
she said faintly .
`` Not likely .
I 'm pretty well tired of Prospect and I have n't got anything to hold me here .
Things 'll be livelier down south . ''
Joan said nothing more .
They walked along the spruce-fringed roads where the moonbeams laughed down through the thick , softly swaying boughs .
Paul whistled one rollicking tune after another .
The girl bit her lips and clenched her hands .
He cared nothing for her -- he had been making a mock of her as of others .
Hurt pride and wounded love fought each other in her soul .
Pride conquered .
She would not let him , or anyone , see that she cared .
She would not care !
At her gate Paul held out his hand .
`` Well , good-bye , Joan .
I 'm sailing tomorrow so I wo n't see you again -- not for years likely .
You will be some sober old married woman when I come back to Prospect , if I ever do . ''
`` Good-bye , '' said Joan steadily .
She gave him her cold hand and looked calmly into his face without quailing .
She had loved him with all her heart , but now a fatal scorn of him was already mingling with her love .
He was what they said he was , a scamp without principle or honour .
Paul whistled himself out of the Shelley lane and over the hill .
Then he flung himself down under the spruces , crushed his face into the spicy frosted ferns , and had his black hour alone .
But when Captain Alec 's schooner sailed out of the harbour the next day , Paul King was on board of her , the wildest and most hilarious of a wild and hilarious crew .
Prospect people nodded their satisfaction .
`` Good riddance , '' they said .
`` Paul King is black to the core .
He never did a decent thing in his life . ''
A Soul That Was Not at Home There was a very fine sunset on the night Paul and Miss Trevor first met , and she had lingered on the headland beyond Noel 's Cove to delight in it .
The west was splendid in daffodil and rose ; away to the north there was a mackerel sky of little fiery golden clouds ; and across the water straight from Miss Trevor 's feet ran a sparkling path of light to the sun , whose rim had just touched the throbbing edge of the purple sea .
Off to the left were softly swelling violet hills and beyond the sandshore , where little waves were crisping and silvering , there was a harbour where scores of slender masts were nodding against the gracious horizon .
Miss Trevor sighed with sheer happiness in all the wonderful , fleeting , elusive loveliness of sky and sea .
Then she turned to look back at Noel 's Cove , dim and shadowy in the gloom of the tall headlands , and she saw Paul .
It did not occur to her that he could be a shore boy -- she knew the shore type too well .
She thought his coming mysterious , for she was sure he had not come along the sand , and the tide was too high for him to have come past the other headland .
Yet there he was , sitting on a red sandstone boulder , with his bare , bronzed , shapely little legs crossed in front of him and his hands clasped around his knee .
He was not looking at Miss Trevor but at the sunset -- or , rather , it seemed as if he were looking through the sunset to still grander and more radiant splendours beyond , of which the things seen were only the pale reflections , not worthy of attention from those who had the gift of further sight .
Miss Trevor looked him over carefully with eyes that had seen a good many people in many parts of the world for more years than she found it altogether pleasant to acknowledge , and she concluded that he was quite the handsomest lad she had ever seen .
He had a lithe , supple body , with sloping shoulders and a brown , satin throat .
His hair was thick and wavy , of a fine reddish chestnut ; his brows were very straight and much darker than his hair ; and his eyes were large and grey and meditative .
The modelling of chin and jaw was perfect and his mouth was delicious , being full without pouting , the crimson lips just softly touching , and curving into finely finished little corners that narrowly escaped being dimpled .
His attire was a blue cotton shirt and a pair of scanty corduroy knickerbockers , but he wore it with such an unconscious air of purple and fine linen that Miss Trevor was tricked into believing him much better dressed than he really was .
Presently he smiled dreamily , and the smile completed her subjugation .
It was not merely an affair of lip and eye , as are most smiles ; it seemed an illumination of his whole body , as if some lamp had suddenly burst into flame inside of him , irradiating him from his chestnut crown to the tips of his unspoiled toes .
Best of all , it was involuntary , born of no external effort or motive , but simply the outflashing of some wild , delicious thought that was as untrammelled and freakish as the wind of the sea .
Miss Trevor made up her mind that she must find out all about him , and she stepped out from the shadows of the rocks into the vivid , eerie light that was glowing all along the shore .
The boy turned his head and looked at her , first with surprise , then with inquiry , then with admiration .
Miss Trevor , in a white dress with a lace scarf on her dark , stately head , was well worth admiring .
She smiled at him and Paul smiled back .
It was not quite up to his first smile , having more of the effect of being put on from the outside , but at least it conveyed the subtly flattering impression that it had been put on solely for her , and they were as good friends from that moment as if they had known each other for a hundred years .
Miss Trevor had enough discrimination to realize this and know that she need not waste time in becoming acquainted .
`` I want to know your name and where you live and what you were looking at beyond the sunset , '' she said .
`` My name is Paul Hubert .
I live over there .
And I ca n't tell just what I saw in the sunset , but when I go home I 'm going to write it all in my foolscap book . ''
In her surprise over the second clause of his answer , Miss Trevor forgot , at first , to appreciate the last .
`` Over there , '' according to his gesture , was up at the head of Noel 's Cove , where there was a little grey house perched on the rocks and looking like a large seashell cast up by the tide .
The house had a stovepipe coming out of its roof in lieu of a chimney , and two of its window panes were replaced by shingles .
Could this boy , who looked as young princes should -- and seldom do -- live there ?
Then he was a shore boy after all .
`` Who lives there with you ? ''
she asked .
`` You see '' -- plaintively -- `` I must ask questions about you .
I know we like each other , and that is all that really matters .
But there are some tiresome items which it would be convenient to know .
For example , have you a father -- a mother ?
Are there any more of you ?
How long have you been yourself ? ''
Paul did not reply immediately .
He clasped his hands behind him and looked at her affectionately .
`` I like the way you talk , '' he said .
`` I never knew anybody did talk like that except folks in books and my rock people . ''
`` Your rock people ? ''
`` I 'm eleven years old .
I have n't any father or mother , they 're dead .
I live over there with Stephen Kane .
Stephen is splendid .
He plays the violin and takes me fishing in his boat .
When I get bigger he 's going shares with me .
I love him , and I love my rock people too . ''
`` What do you mean by your rock people ? ''
asked Miss Trevor , enjoying herself hugely .
This was the only child she had ever met who talked as she wanted children to talk and who understood her remarks without having to have them translated .
`` Nora is one of them , '' said Paul , `` the best one of them .
I love her better than all the others because she came first .
She lives around that point and she has black eyes and black hair and she knows all about the mermaids and water kelpies .
You ought to hear the stories she can tell .
Then there are the Twin Sailors .
They do n't live anywhere -- they sail all the time , but they often come ashore to talk to me .
They are a pair of jolly tars and they have seen everything in the world -- and more than what 's in the world , if you only knew it .
Do you know what happened to the Youngest Twin Sailor once ?
He was sailing and he sailed right into a moonglade .
A moonglade is the track the full moon makes on the water when it is rising from the sea , you know .
Well , the Youngest Twin Sailor sailed along the moonglade till he came right up to the moon , and there was a little golden door in the moon and he opened it and sailed right through .
He had some wonderful adventures inside the moon -- I 've got them all written down in my foolscap book .
Then there is the Golden Lady of the Cave .
One day I found a big cave down the shore and I went in and in and in -- and after a while I found the Golden Lady .
She has golden hair right down to her feet , and her dress is all glittering and glistening like gold that is alive .
And she has a golden harp and she plays all day long on it -- you might hear the music if you 'd listen carefully , but prob ` bly you 'd think it was only the wind among the rocks .
I 've never told Nora about the Golden Lady , because I think it would hurt her feelings .
It even hurts her feelings when I talk too long with the Twin Sailors .
And I hate to hurt Nora 's feelings , because I do love her best of all my rock people . ''
`` Paul !
How much of this is true ? ''
gasped Miss Trevor .
`` Why , none of it ! ''
said Paul , opening his eyes widely and reproachfully .
`` I thought you would know that .
If I 'd s ` posed you would n't I 'd have warned you there was n't any of it true .
I thought you were one of the kind that would know . ''
`` I am .
Oh , I am ! ''
said Miss Trevor eagerly .
`` I really would have known if I had stopped to think .
Well , it 's getting late now .
I must go back , although I do n't want to .
But I 'm coming to see you again .
Will you be here tomorrow afternoon ? ''
Paul nodded .
`` Yes .
I promised to meet the Youngest Twin Sailor down at the striped rocks tomorrow afternoon , but the day after will do just as well .
That is the beauty of the rock people , you know .
You can always depend on them to be there just when you want them .
The Youngest Twin Sailor wo n't mind -- he 's very good-tempered .
If it was the Oldest Twin I dare say he 'd be cross .
I have my suspicions about that Oldest Twin sometimes .
I b ` lieve he 'd be a pirate if he dared .
You do n't know how fierce he can look at times .
There 's really something very mysterious about him . ''
On her way back to the hotel Miss Trevor remembered the foolscap book .
`` I must get him to show it to me , '' she mused , smiling .
`` Why , the boy is a born genius -- and to think he should be a shore boy !
I ca n't understand it .
And here I am loving him already .
Well , a woman has to love something -- and you do n't have to know people for years before you can love them . ''
Paul was waiting on the Noel 's Cove rocks for Miss Trevor the next afternoon .
He was not alone ; a tall man , with a lined , strong-featured face and a grey beard , was with him .
The man was clad in a rough suit and looked what he was , a ` longshore fisherman .
But he had deep-set , kindly eyes , and Miss Trevor liked his face .
He moved off to one side when she came and stood there for a little , apparently gazing out to sea , while Paul and Miss Trevor talked .
Then he walked away up the cove and disappeared in his little grey house .
`` Stephen came down to see if you were a suitable person for me to talk to , '' said Paul gravely .
`` I hope he thinks I am , '' said Miss Trevor , amused .
`` Oh , he does !
He would n't have gone away and left us alone if he did n't .
Stephen is very particular who he lets me ` sociate with .
Why , even the rock people now -- I had to promise I 'd never let the Twin Sailors swear before he 'd allow me to be friends with them .
Sometimes I know by the look of the Oldest Twin that he 's just dying to swear , but I never let him , because I promised Stephen .
I 'd do anything for Stephen .
He 's awful good to me .
Stephen 's bringing me up , you know , and he 's bound to do it well .
We 're just perfectly happy here , only I wish I 'd more books to read .
We go fishing , and when we come home at night I help Stephen clean the fish and then we sit outside the door and he plays the violin for me .
We sit there for hours sometimes .
We never talk much -- Stephen is n't much of a hand for talking -- but we just sit and think .
There 's not many men like Stephen , I can tell you . ''
Miss Trevor did not get a glimpse of the foolscap book that day , nor for many days after .
Paul blushed all over his beautiful face whenever she mentioned it .
`` Oh , I could n't show you that , '' he said uncomfortably .
`` Why , I 've never even showed it to Stephen -- or Nora .
Let me tell you something else instead , something that happened to me once long ago .
You 'll find it more interesting than the foolscap book , only you must remember it is n't true !
You wo n't forget that , will you ? ''
`` I 'll try to remember , '' Miss Trevor agreed .
`` Well , I was sitting here one evening just like I was last night , and the sun was setting .
And an enchanted boat came sailing over the sea and I got into her .
The boat was all pearly like the inside of the mussel shells , and her sail was like moonshine .
Well , I sailed right across to the sunset .
Think of that -- I 've been in the sunset !
And what do you suppose it is ?
The sunset is a land all flowers , like a great garden , and the clouds are beds of flowers .
We sailed into a great big harbour , a thousand times bigger than the harbour over there at your hotel , and I stepped out of the boat on a ` normous meadow all roses .
I stayed there for ever so long .
It seemed almost a year , but the Youngest Twin Sailor says I was only away a few hours or so .
You see , in Sunset Land the time is ever so much longer than it is here .
But I was glad to come back too .
I 'm always glad to come back to the cove and Stephen .
Now , you know this never really happened . ''
Miss Trevor would not give up the foolscap book so easily , but for a long time Paul refused to show it to her .
She came to the cove every day , and every day Paul seemed more delightful to her .
He was so quaint , so clever , so spontaneous .
Yet there was nothing premature or unnatural about him .
He was wholly boy , fond of fun and frolic , not too good for little spurts of quick temper now and again , though , as he was careful to explain to Miss Trevor , he never showed them to a lady .
`` I get real mad with the Twin Sailors sometimes , and even with Stephen , for all he 's so good to me .
But I could n't be mad with you or Nora or the Golden Lady .
It would never do . ''
Every day he had some new story to tell of a wonderful adventure on rock or sea , always taking the precaution of assuring her beforehand that it was n't true .
The boy 's fancy was like a prism , separating every ray that fell upon it into rainbows .
He was passionately fond of the shore and water .
The only world for him beyond Noel 's Cove was the world of his imagination .
He had no companions except Stephen and the `` rock people . ''
`` And now you , '' he told Miss Trevor .
`` I love you too , but I know you 'll be going away before long , so I do n't let myself love you as much -- quite -- as Stephen and the rock people . ''
`` But you could , could n't you ? ''
pleaded Miss Trevor .
`` If you and I were to go on being together every day , you could love me just as well as you love them , could n't you ? ''
Paul considered in a charming way he had .
`` Of course I could love you better than the Twin Sailors and the Golden Lady , '' he announced finally .
`` And I think perhaps I could love you as much as I love Stephen .
But not as much as Nora -- oh , no , I would n't love you quite as much as Nora .
She was first , you see ; she 's always been there .
I feel sure I could n't ever love anybody as much as Nora . ''
One day when Stephen was out to the mackerel grounds , Paul took Miss Trevor into the little grey house and showed her his treasures .
They climbed the ladder in one corner to the loft where Paul slept .
The window of it , small and square-paned , looked seaward , and the moan of the sea and the pipe of the wind sounded there night and day .
Paul had many rare shells and seaweeds , curious flotsam and jetsam of shore storms , and he had a small shelf full of books .
`` They 're splendid , '' he said enthusiastically .
`` Stephen brought me them all .
Every time Stephen goes to town to ship his mackerel he brings me home a new book . ''
`` Were you ever in town yourself ? ''
asked Miss Trevor .
`` Oh , yes , twice .
Stephen took me .
It was a wonderful place .
I tell you , when I next met the Twin Sailors it was me did the talking then .
I had to tell them about all I saw and all that had happened .
And Nora was ever so interested too .
The Golden Lady was n't , though -- she did n't hardly listen .
Golden people are like that . ''
`` Would you like , '' said Miss Trevor , watching him closely , `` to live always in a town and have all the books you wanted and play with real girls and boys -- and visit those strange lands your twin sailors tell you of ? ''
Paul looked startled .
`` I -- do n't -- know , '' he said doubtfully .
`` I do n't think I 'd like it very well if Stephen and Nora were n't there too . ''
But the new thought remained in his mind .
It came back to him at intervals , seeming less new and startling every time .
`` And why not ? ''
Miss Trevor asked herself .
`` The boy should have a chance .
I shall never have a son of my own -- he shall be to me in the place of one . ''
The day came when Paul at last showed her the foolscap book .
He brought it to her as she sat on the rocks of the headland .
`` I 'm going to run around and talk to Nora while you read it , '' he said .
`` I 'm afraid I 've been neglecting her lately -- and I think she feels it . ''
Miss Trevor took the foolscap book .
It was made of several sheets of paper sewed together and encased in an oilcloth cover .
It was nearly filled with writing in a round childish hand and it was very neat , although the orthography was rather wild and the punctuation capricious .
Miss Trevor read it through in no very long time .
It was a curious medley of quaint thoughts and fancies .
Conversations with the Twin Sailors filled many of the pages ; accounts of Paul 's `` adventures '' occupied others .
Sometimes it seemed impossible that a child of eleven should have written them , then would come an expression so boyish and naive that Miss Trevor laughed delightedly over it .
When she finished the book and closed it she found Stephen Kane at her elbow .
He removed his pipe and nodded at the foolscap book .
`` What do you think of it ? ''
he said .
`` I think it is wonderful .
Paul is a very clever child . ''
`` I 've often thought so , '' said Stephen laconically .
He thrust his hands into his pockets and gazed moodily out to sea .
Miss Trevor had never before had an opportunity to talk to him in Paul 's absence and she determined to make the most of it .
`` I want to know something about Paul , '' she said , `` all about him .
Is he any relation to you ? ''
`` No .
I expected to marry his mother once , though , '' said Stephen unemotionally .
His hand in his pocket was clutching his pipe fiercely , but Miss Trevor could not know that .
`` She was a shore girl and very pretty .
Well , she fell in love with a young fellow that came teaching up t ' the harbour school and he with her .
They got married and she went away with him .
He was a good enough sort of chap .
I know that now , though once I was n't disposed to think much good of him .
But 't was a mistake all the same ; Rachel could n't live away from the shore .
She fretted and pined and broke her heart for it away there in his world .
Finally her husband died and she came back -- but it was too late for her .
She only lived a month -- and there was Paul , a baby of two .
I took him .
There was nobody else .
Rachel had no relatives nor her husband either .
I 've done what I could for him -- not that it 's been much , perhaps . ''
`` I am sure you have done a great deal for him , '' said Miss Trevor rather patronizingly .
`` But I think he should have more than you can give him now .
He should be sent to school . ''
Stephen nodded .
`` Maybe .
He never went to school .
The harbour school was too far away .
I taught him to read and write and bought him all the books I could afford .
But I ca n't do any more for him . ''
`` But I can , '' said Miss Trevor , `` and I want to .
Will you give Paul to me , Mr. Kane ?
I love him dearly and he shall have every advantage .
I 'm rich -- I can do a great deal for him . ''
Stephen continued to gaze out to sea with an expressionless face .
Finally he said : `` I 've been expecting to hear you say something of the sort .
I do n't know .
If you took Paul away , he 'd grow to be a cleverer man and a richer man maybe , but would he be any better -- or happier ?
He 's his mother 's son -- he loves the sea and its ways .
There 's nothing of his father in him except his hankering after books .
But I wo n't choose for him -- he can go if he likes -- he can go if he likes . ''
In the end Paul `` liked , '' since Stephen refused to influence him by so much as a word .
Paul thought Stephen did n't seem to care much whether he went or stayed , and he was dazzled by Miss Trevor 's charm and the lure of books and knowledge she held out to him .
`` I 'll go , I guess , '' he said , with a long sigh .
Miss Trevor clasped him close to her and kissed him maternally .
Paul kissed her cheek shyly in return .
He thought it very wonderful that he was to live with her always .
He felt happy and excited -- so happy and excited that the parting when it came slipped over him lightly .
Miss Trevor even thought he took it too easily and had a vague wish that he had shown more sorrow .
Stephen said farewell to the boy he loved better than life with no visible emotion .
`` Good-bye , Paul .
Be a good boy and learn all you can . ''
He hesitated a moment and then said slowly , `` If you do n't like it , come back . ''
`` Did you bid good-bye to your rock people ? ''
Miss Trevor asked him with a smile as they drove away .
`` No .
I -- could n't -- I -- I -- did n't even tell them I was going away .
Nora would break her heart .
I 'd rather not talk of them anymore , if you please .
Maybe I wo n't want them when I 've plenty of books and lots of other boys and girls -- real ones -- to play with . ''
They drove the ten miles to the town where they were to take the train the next day .
Paul enjoyed the drive and the sights of the busy streets at its end .
He was all excitement and animation .
After they had had tea at the house of the friend where Miss Trevor meant to spend the night , they went for a walk in the park .
Paul was tired and very quiet when they came back .
He was put away to sleep in a bedroom whose splendours frightened him , and left alone .
At first Paul lay very still on his luxurious perfumed pillows .
It was the first night he had ever spent away from the little seaward-looking loft where he could touch the rafters with his hands .
He thought of it now and a lump came into his throat and a strange , new , bitter longing came into his heart .
He missed the sea plashing on the rocks below him -- he could not sleep without that old lullaby .
He turned his face into the pillow , and the longing and loneliness grew worse and hurt him until he moaned .
Oh , he wanted to be back home !
Surely he had not left it -- he could never have meant to leave it .
Out there the stars would be shining over the harbour .
Stephen would be sitting at the door , all alone , with his violin .
But he would not be playing it -- all at once Paul knew he would not be playing it .
He would be sitting there with his head bowed and the loneliness in his heart calling to the loneliness in Paul 's heart over all the miles between them .
Oh , he could never have really meant to leave Stephen .
And Nora ?
Nora would be down on the rocks waiting for him -- for him , Paul , who would never come to her more .
He could see her elfin little face peering around the point , watching for him wistfully .
Paul sat up in bed , choking with tears .
Oh , what were books and strange countries ?
-- what was even Miss Trevor , the friend of a month ?
-- to the call of the sea and Stephen 's kind , deep eyes and his dear rock people ?
He could not stay away from them -- never -- never .
He slipped out of bed very softly and dressed in the dark .
Then he lighted the lamp timidly and opened the little brown chest Stephen had given him .
It held his books and his treasures , but he took out only a pencil , a bit of paper and the foolscap book .
With a hand shaking in his eagerness , he wrote : dear miss Trever Im going back home , dont be fritened about me because I know the way .
Ive got to go .
something is calling me .
dont be cross .
I love you , but I cant stay .
Im leaving my foolscap book for you , you can keep it always but I must go back to Stephen and nora Paul He put the note on the foolscap book and laid them on the table .
Then he blew out the light , took his cap and went softly out .
The house was very still .
Holding his breath , he tiptoed downstairs and opened the front door .
Before it ran the street which went , he knew , straight out to the country road that led home .
Paul closed the door and stole down the steps , his heart beating painfully , but when he reached the sidewalk he broke into a frantic run under the limes .
It was late and no one was out on that quiet street .
He ran until his breath gave out , then walked miserably until he recovered it , and then ran again .
He dared not stop running until he was out of that horrible town , which seemed like a prison closing around him , where the houses shut out the stars and the wind could only creep in a narrow space like a fettered , cringing thing , instead of sweeping grandly over great salt wastes of sea .
At last the houses grew few and scattered , and finally he left them behind .
He drew a long breath ; this was better -- rather smothering yet , of course , with nothing but hills and fields and dark woods all about him , but at least his own sky was above him , looking just the same as it looked out home at Noel 's Cove .
He recognized the stars as friends ; how often Stephen had pointed them out to him as they sat at night by the door of the little house .
He was not at all frightened now .
He knew the way home and the kind night was before him .
Every step was bringing him nearer to Stephen and Nora and the Twin Sailors .
He whistled as he walked sturdily along .
The dawn was just breaking when he reached Noel 's Cove .
The eastern sky was all pale rose and silver , and the sea was mottled over with dear grey ripples .
In the west over the harbour the sky was a very fine ethereal blue and the wind blew from there , salt and bracing .
Paul was tired , but he ran lightly down the shelving rocks to the cove .
Stephen was getting ready to launch his boat .
When he saw Paul he started and a strange , vivid , exultant expression flashed across his face .
Paul felt a sudden chill -- the upspringing fountain of his gladness was checked in mid-leap .
He had known no doubt on the way home -- all that long , weary walk he had known no doubt -- but now ?
`` Stephen , '' he cried .
`` I 've come back !
I had to !
Stephen , are you glad -- are you glad ? ''
Stephen 's face was as emotionless as ever .
The burst of feeling which had frightened Paul by its unaccustomedness had passed like a fleeting outbreak of sunshine between dull clouds .
`` I reckon I am , '' he said .
`` Yes , I reckon I am .
I kind of -- hoped -- you would come back .
You 'd better go in and get some breakfast . ''
Paul 's eyes were as radiant as the deepening dawn .
He knew Stephen was glad and he knew there was nothing more to be said about it .
They were back just where they were before Miss Trevor came -- back in their perfect , unmarred , sufficient comradeship .
`` I must just run around and see Nora first , '' said Paul .
Abel and His Great Adventure `` Come out of doors , master -- come out of doors .
I ca n't talk or think right with walls around me -- never could .
Let 's go out to the garden . ''
These were almost the first words I ever heard Abel Armstrong say .
He was a member of the board of school trustees in Stillwater , and I had not met him before this late May evening , when I had gone down to confer with him upon some small matter of business .
For I was `` the new schoolmaster '' in Stillwater , having taken the school for the summer term .
It was a rather lonely country district -- a fact of which I was glad , for life had been going somewhat awry with me and my heart was sore and rebellious over many things that have nothing to do with this narration .
Stillwater offered time and opportunity for healing and counsel .
Yet , looking back , I doubt if I should have found either had it not been for Abel and his beloved garden .
Abel Armstrong -LRB- he was always called `` Old Abel '' , though he was barely sixty -RRB- lived in a quaint , gray house close by the harbour shore .
I heard a good deal about him before I saw him .
He was called `` queer '' , but Stillwater folks seemed to be very fond of him .
He and his sister , Tamzine , lived together ; she , so my garrulous landlady informed me , had not been sound of mind at times for many years ; but she was all right now , only odd and quiet .
Abel had gone to college for a year when he was young , but had given it up when Tamzine `` went crazy '' .
There was no one else to look after her .
Abel had settled down to it with apparent content : at least he had never complained .
`` Always took things easy , Abel did , '' said Mrs. Campbell .
`` Never seemed to worry over disappointments and trials as most folks do .
Seems to me that as long as Abel Armstrong can stride up and down in that garden of his , reciting poetry and speeches , or talking to that yaller cat of his as if it was a human , he does n't care much how the world wags on .
He never had much git-up-and-git .
His father was a hustler , but the family did n't take after him .
They all favoured the mother 's people -- sorter shiftless and dreamy .
` Taint the way to git on in this world . ''
No , good and worthy Mrs. Campbell .
It was not the way to get on in your world ; but there are other worlds where getting on is estimated by different standards , and Abel Armstrong lived in one of these -- a world far beyond the ken of the thrifty Stillwater farmers and fishers .
Something of this I had sensed , even before I saw him ; and that night in his garden , under a sky of smoky red , blossoming into stars above the harbour , I found a friend whose personality and philosophy were to calm and harmonize and enrich my whole existence .
This sketch is my grateful tribute to one of the rarest and finest souls God ever clothed with clay .
He was a tall man , somewhat ungainly of figure and homely of face .
But his large , deep eyes of velvety nut-brown were very beautiful and marvellously bright and clear for a man of his age .
He wore a little pointed , well-cared-for beard , innocent of gray ; but his hair was grizzled , and altogether he had the appearance of a man who had passed through many sorrows which had marked his body as well as his soul .
Looking at him , I doubted Mrs. Campbell 's conclusion that he had not `` minded '' giving up college .
This man had given up much and felt it deeply ; but he had outlived the pain and the blessing of sacrifice had come to him .
His voice was very melodious and beautiful , and the brown hand he held out to me was peculiarly long and shapely and flexible .
We went out to the garden in the scented moist air of a maritime spring evening .
Behind the garden was a cloudy pine wood ; the house closed it in on the left , while in front and on the right a row of tall Lombardy poplars stood out in stately purple silhouette against the sunset sky .
`` Always liked Lombardies , '' said Abel , waving a long arm at them .
`` They are the trees of princesses .
When I was a boy they were fashionable .
Anyone who had any pretensions to gentility had a row of Lombardies at the foot of his lawn or up his lane , or at any rate one on either side of his front door .
They 're out of fashion now .
Folks complain they die at the top and get ragged-looking .
So they do -- so they do , if you do n't risk your neck every spring climbing up a light ladder to trim them out as I do .
My neck is n't worth much to anyone , which , I suppose , is why I 've never broken it ; and my Lombardies never look out-at-elbows .
My mother was especially fond of them .
She liked their dignity and their stand-offishness .
They do n't hobnob with every Tom , Dick and Harry .
If it 's pines for company , master , it 's Lombardies for society . ''
We stepped from the front doorstone into the garden .
There was another entrance -- a sagging gate flanked by two branching white lilacs .
From it a little dappled path led to a huge apple-tree in the centre , a great swelling cone of rosy blossom with a mossy circular seat around its trunk .
But Abel 's favourite seat , so he told me , was lower down the slope , under a little trellis overhung with the delicate emerald of young hop-vines .
He led me to it and pointed proudly to the fine view of the harbour visible from it .
The early sunset glow of rose and flame had faded out of the sky ; the water was silvery and mirror-like ; dim sails drifted along by the darkening shore .
A bell was ringing in a small Catholic chapel across the harbour .
Mellowly and dreamily sweet the chime floated through the dusk , blent with the moan of the sea .
The great revolving light at the channel trembled and flashed against the opal sky , and far out , beyond the golden sand-dunes of the bar , was the crinkled gray ribbon of a passing steamer 's smoke .
`` There , is n't that view worth looking at ? ''
said old Abel , with a loving , proprietary pride .
`` You do n't have to pay anything for it , either .
All that sea and sky free -- ` without money and without price ' .
Let 's sit down here in the hop-vine arbour , master .
There 'll be a moonrise presently .
I 'm never tired of finding out what a moonrise sheen can be like over that sea .
There 's a surprise in it every time .
Now , master , you 're getting your mouth in the proper shape to talk business -- but do n't you do it .
Nobody should talk business when he 's expecting a moonrise .
Not that I like talking business at any time . ''
`` Unfortunately it has to be talked of sometimes , Mr. Armstrong , '' I said .
`` Yes , it seems to be a necessary evil , master , '' he acknowledged .
`` But I know what business you 've come upon , and we can settle it in five minutes after the moon 's well up .
I 'll just agree to everything you and the other two trustees want .
Lord knows why they ever put me on the school board .
Maybe it 's because I 'm so ornamental .
They wanted one good-looking man , I reckon . ''
His low chuckle , so full of mirth and so free from malice , was infectious .
I laughed also , as I sat down in the hop-vine arbour .
`` Now , you need n't talk if you do n't want to , '' he said .
`` And I wo n't .
We 'll just sit here , sociable like , and if we think of anything worth while to say we 'll say it .
Otherwise , not .
If you can sit in silence with a person for half an hour and feel comfortable , you and that person can be friends .
If you ca n't , friends you 'll never be , and you need n't waste time in trying . ''
Abel and I passed successfully the test of silence that evening in the hop-vine arbour .
I was strangely content to sit and think -- something I had not cared to do lately .
A peace , long unknown to my stormy soul , seemed hovering near it .
The garden was steeped in it ; old Abel 's personality radiated it .
I looked about me and wondered whence came the charm of that tangled , unworldly spot .
`` Nice and far from the market-place is n't it ? ''
asked Abel suddenly , as if he had heard my unasked question .
`` No buying and selling and getting gain here .
Nothing was ever sold out of this garden .
Tamzine has her vegetable plot over yonder , but what we do n't eat we give away .
Geordie Marr down the harbour has a big garden like this and he sells heaps of flowers and fruit and vegetables to the hotel folks .
He thinks I 'm an awful fool because I wo n't do the same .
Well , he gets money out of his garden and I get happiness out of mine .
That 's the difference .
S'posing I could make more money -- what then ?
I 'd only be taking it from people that needed it more .
There 's enough for Tamzine and me .
As for Geordie Marr , there is n't a more unhappy creature on God 's earth -- he 's always stewing in a broth of trouble , poor man .
O ' course , he brews up most of it for himself , but I reckon that does n't make it any easier to bear .
Ever sit in a hop-vine arbour before , master ? ''
I was to grow used to Abel 's abrupt change of subject .
I answered that I never had .
`` Great place for dreaming , '' said Abel complacently .
`` Being young , no doubt , you dream a-plenty . ''
I answered hotly and bitterly that I had done with dreams .
`` No , you have n't , '' said Abel meditatively .
`` You may think you have .
What then ?
First thing you know you 'll be dreaming again -- thank the Lord for it .
I ai n't going to ask you what 's soured you on dreaming just now .
After awhile you 'll begin again , especially if you come to this garden as much as I hope you will .
It 's chockful of dreams -- any kind of dreams .
You take your choice .
Now , I favour dreams of adventures , if you 'll believe it .
I 'm sixty-one and I never do anything rasher than go out cod-fishing on a fine day , but I still lust after adventures .
Then I dream I 'm an awful fellow -- blood-thirsty . ''
I burst out laughing .
Perhaps laughter was somewhat rare in that old garden .
Tamzine , who was weeding at the far end , lifted her head in a startled fashion and walked past us into the house .
She did not look at us or speak to us .
She was reputed to be abnormally shy .
She was very stout and wore a dress of bright red-and-white striped material .
Her face was round and blank , but her reddish hair was abundant and beautiful .
A huge , orange-coloured cat was at her heels ; as she passed us he bounded over to the arbour and sprang up on Abel 's knee .
He was a gorgeous brute , with vivid green eyes , and immense white double paws .
`` Captain Kidd , Mr. Woodley . ''
He introduced us as seriously as if the cat had been a human being .
Neither Captain Kidd nor I responded very enthusiastically .
`` You do n't like cats , I reckon , master , '' said Abel , stroking the Captain 's velvet back .
`` I do n't blame you .
I was never fond of them myself until I found the Captain .
I saved his life and when you 've saved a creature 's life you 're bound to love it .
It 's next thing to giving it life .
There are some terrible thoughtless people in the world , master .
Some of those city folks who have summer homes down the harbour are so thoughtless that they 're cruel .
It 's the worst kind of cruelty , I think -- the thoughtless kind .
You ca n't cope with it .
They keep cats there in the summer and feed them and pet them and doll them up with ribbons and collars ; and then in the fall they go off and leave them to starve or freeze .
It makes my blood boil , master . ''
`` One day last winter I found a poor old mother cat dead on the shore , lying against the skin and bone bodies of her three little kittens .
She had died trying to shelter them .
She had her poor stiff claws around them .
Master , I cried .
Then I swore .
Then I carried those poor little kittens home and fed ` hem up and found good homes for them .
I know the woman who left the cat .
When she comes back this summer I 'm going to go down and tell her my opinion of her .
It 'll be rank meddling , but , lord , how I love meddling in a good cause . ''
`` Was Captain Kidd one of the forsaken ? ''
I asked .
`` Yes .
I found him one bitter cold day in winter caught in the branches of a tree by his darn-fool ribbon collar .
He was almost starving .
Lord , if you could have seen his eyes !
He was nothing but a kitten , and he 'd got his living somehow since he 'd been left till he got hung up .
When I loosed him he gave my hand a pitiful swipe with his little red tongue .
He was n't the prosperous free-booter you behold now .
He was meek as Moses .
That was nine years ago .
His life has been long in the land for a cat .
He 's a good old pal , the Captain is . ''
`` I should have expected you to have a dog , '' I said .
Abel shook his head .
`` I had a dog once .
I cared so much for him that when he died I could n't bear the thought of ever getting another in his place .
He was a friend -- you understand ?
The Captain 's only a pal .
I 'm fond of the Captain -- all the fonder because of the spice of deviltry there is in all cats .
But I loved my dog .
There is n't any devil in a good dog .
That 's why they 're more lovable than cats -- but I 'm darned if they 're as interesting . ''
I laughed as I rose regretfully .
`` Must you go , master ?
And we have n't talked any business after all .
I reckon it 's that stove matter you 've come about .
It 's like those two fool trustees to start up a stove sputter in spring .
It 's a wonder they did n't leave it till dog-days and begin then . ''
`` They merely wished me to ask you if you approved of putting in a new stove . ''
`` Tell them to put in a new stove -- any kind of a new stove -- and be hanged to them , '' rejoined Abel .
`` As for you , master , you 're welcome to this garden any time .
If you 're tired or lonely , or too ambitious or angry , come here and sit awhile , master .
Do you think any man could keep mad if he sat and looked into the heart of a pansy for ten minutes ?
When you feel like talking , I 'll talk , and when you feel like thinking , I 'll let you .
I 'm a great hand to leave folks alone . ''
`` I think I 'll come often , '' I said , `` perhaps too often . ''
`` Not likely , master -- not likely -- not after we 've watched a moonrise contentedly together .
It 's as good a test of compatibility as any I know .
You 're young and I 'm old , but our souls are about the same age , I reckon , and we 'll find lots to say to each other .
Are you going straight home from here ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Then I 'm going to bother you to stop for a moment at Mary Bascom 's and give her a bouquet of my white lilacs .
She loves 'em and I 'm not going to wait till she 's dead to send her flowers . ''
`` She 's very ill just now , is n't she ? ''
`` She 's got the Bascom consumption .
That means she may die in a month , like her brother , or linger on for twenty years , like her father .
But long or short , white lilac in spring is sweet , and I 'm sending her a fresh bunch every day while it lasts .
It 's a rare night , master .
I envy you your walk home in the moonlight along that shore . ''
`` Better come part of the way with me , '' I suggested .
`` No . ''
Abel glanced at the house .
`` Tamzine never likes to be alone o ' nights .
So I take my moonlight walks in the garden .
The moon 's a great friend of mine , master .
I 've loved her ever since I can remember .
When I was a little lad of eight I fell asleep in the garden one evening and was n't missed .
I woke up alone in the night and I was most scared to death , master .
Lord , what shadows and queer noises there were !
I dars n't move .
I just sat there quaking , poor small mite .
Then all at once I saw the moon looking down at me through the pine boughs , just like an old friend .
I was comforted right off .
Got up and walked to the house as brave as a lion , looking at her .
Goodnight , master .
Tell Mary the lilacs 'll last another week yet . ''
From that night Abel and I were cronies .
We walked and talked and kept silence and fished cod together .
Stillwater people thought it very strange that I should prefer his society to that of the young fellows of my own age .
Mrs. Campbell was quite worried over it , and opined that there had always been something queer about me .
`` Birds of a feather . ''
I loved that old garden by the harbour shore .
Even Abel himself , I think , could hardly have felt a deeper affection for it .
When its gate closed behind me it shut out the world and my corroding memories and discontents .
In its peace my soul emptied itself of the bitterness which had been filling and spoiling it , and grew normal and healthy again , aided thereto by Abel 's wise words .
He never preached , but he radiated courage and endurance and a frank acceptance of the hard things of life , as well as a cordial welcome of its pleasant things .
He was the sanest soul I ever met .
He neither minimized ill nor exaggerated good , but he held that we should never be controlled by either .
Pain should not depress us unduly , nor pleasure lure us into forgetfulness and sloth .
All unknowingly he made me realize that I had been a bit of a coward and a shirker .
I began to understand that my personal woes were not the most important things in the universe , even to myself .
In short , Abel taught me to laugh again ; and when a man can laugh wholesomely things are not going too badly with him .
That old garden was always such a cheery place .
Even when the east wind sang in minor and the waves on the gray shore were sad , hints of sunshine seemed to be lurking all about it .
Perhaps this was because there were so many yellow flowers in it .
Tamzine liked yellow flowers .
Captain Kidd , too , always paraded it in panoply of gold .
He was so large and effulgent that one hardly missed the sun .
Considering his presence I wondered that the garden was always so full of singing birds .
But the Captain never meddled with them .
Probably he understood that his master would not have tolerated it for a moment .
So there was always a song or a chirp somewhere .
Overhead flew the gulls and the cranes .
The wind in the pines always made a glad salutation .
Abel and I paced the walks , in high converse on matters beyond the ken of cat or king .
`` I liked to ponder on all problems , though I can never solve them , '' Abel used to say .
`` My father held that we should never talk of things we could n't understand .
But , lord , master , if we did n't the subjects for conversation would be mighty few .
I reckon the gods laugh many a time to hear us , but what matter ?
So long as we remember that we 're only men , and do n't take to fancying ourselves gods , really knowing good and evil , I reckon our discussions wo n't do us or anyone much harm .
So we 'll have another whack at the origin of evil this evening , master . ''
Tamzine forgot to be shy with me at last , and gave me a broad smile of welcome every time I came .
But she rarely spoke to me .
She spent all her spare time weeding the garden , which she loved as well as Abel did .
She was addicted to bright colours and always wore wrappers of very gorgeous print .
She worshipped Abel and his word was a law unto her .
`` I am very thankful Tamzine is so well , '' said Abel one evening as we watched the sunset .
The day had begun sombrely in gray cloud and mist , but it ended in a pomp of scarlet and gold .
`` There was a time when she was n't , master -- you 've heard ?
But for years now she has been quite able to look after herself .
And so , if I fare forth on the last great adventure some of these days Tamzine will not be left helpless . ''
`` She is ten years older than you .
It is likely she will go before you , '' I said .
Abel shook his head and stroked his smart beard .
I always suspected that beard of being Abel 's last surviving vanity .
It was always so carefully groomed , while I had no evidence that he ever combed his grizzled mop of hair .
`` No , Tamzine will outlive me .
She 's got the Armstrong heart .
I have the Marwood heart -- my mother was a Marwood .
We do n't live to be old , and we go quick and easy .
I 'm glad of it .
I do n't think I 'm a coward , master , but the thought of a lingering death gives me a queer sick feeling of horror .
There , I 'm not going to say any more about it .
I just mentioned it so that some day when you hear that old Abel Armstrong has been found dead , you wo n't feel sorry .
You 'll remember I wanted it that way .
Not that I 'm tired of life either .
It 's very pleasant , what with my garden and Captain Kidd and the harbour out there .
But it 's a trifle monotonous at times and death will be something of a change , master .
I 'm real curious about it . ''
`` I hate the thought of death , '' I said gloomily .
`` Oh , you 're young .
The young always do .
Death grows friendlier as we grow older .
Not that one of us really wants to die , though , master .
Tennyson spoke truth when he said that .
There 's old Mrs. Warner at the Channel Head .
She 's had heaps of trouble all her life , poor soul , and she 's lost almost everyone she cared about .
She 's always saying that she 'll be glad when her time comes , and she does n't want to live any longer in this vale of tears .
But when she takes a sick spell , lord , what a fuss she makes , master !
Doctors from town and a trained nurse and enough medicine to kill a dog !
Life may be a vale of tears , all right , master , but there are some folks who enjoy weeping , I reckon . ''
Summer passed through the garden with her procession of roses and lilies and hollyhocks and golden glow .
The golden glow was particularly fine that year .
There was a great bank of it at the lower end of the garden , like a huge billow of sunshine .
Tamzine revelled in it , but Abel liked more subtly-tinted flowers .
There was a certain dark wine-hued hollyhock which was a favourite with him .
He would sit for hours looking steadfastly into one of its shallow satin cups .
I found him so one afternoon in the hop-vine arbour .
`` This colour always has a soothing effect on me , '' he explained .
`` Yellow excites me too much -- makes me restless -- makes me want to sail ` beyond the bourne of sunset ' .
I looked at that surge of golden glow down there today till I got all worked up and thought my life had been an awful failure .
I found a dead butterfly and had a little funeral -- buried it in the fern corner .
And I thought I had n't been any more use in the world than that poor little butterfly .
Oh , I was woeful , master .
Then I got me this hollyhock and sat down here to look at it alone .
When a man 's alone , master , he 's most with God -- or with the devil .
The devil rampaged around me all the time I was looking at that golden glow ; but God spoke to me through the hollyhock .
And it seemed to me that a man who 's as happy as I am and has got such a garden has made a real success of living . ''
`` I hope I 'll be able to make as much of a success , '' I said sincerely .
`` I want you to make a different kind of success , though , master , '' said Abel , shaking his head .
`` I want you to do things -- the things I 'd have tried to do if I 'd had the chance .
It 's in you to do them -- if you set your teeth and go ahead . ''
`` I believe I can set my teeth and go ahead now , thanks to you , Mr. Armstrong , '' I said .
`` I was heading straight for failure when I came here last spring ; but you 've changed my course . ''
`` Given you a sort of compass to steer by , have n't I ? ''
queried Abel with a smile .
`` I ai n't too modest to take some credit for it .
I saw I could do you some good .
But my garden has done more than I did , if you 'll believe it .
It 's wonderful what a garden can do for a man when he lets it have its way .
Come , sit down here and bask , master .
The sunshine may be gone to-morrow .
Let 's just sit and think . ''
We sat and thought for a long while .
Presently Abel said abruptly : `` You do n't see the folks I see in this garden , master .
You do n't see anybody but me and old Tamzine and Captain Kidd .
I see all who used to be here long ago .
It was a lively place then .
There were plenty of us and we were as gay a set of youngsters as you 'd find anywhere .
We tossed laughter backwards and forwards here like a ball .
And now old Tamzine and older Abel are all that are left . ''
He was silent a moment , looking at the phantoms of memory that paced invisibly to me the dappled walks and peeped merrily through the swinging boughs .
Then he went on : `` Of all the folks I see here there are two that are more vivid and real than all the rest , master .
One is my sister Alice .
She died thirty years ago .
She was very beautiful .
You 'd hardly believe that to look at Tamzine and me , would you ?
But it is true .
We always called her Queen Alice -- she was so stately and handsome .
She had brown eyes and red gold hair , just the colour of that nasturtium there .
She was father 's favourite .
The night she was born they did n't think my mother would live .
Father walked this garden all night .
And just under that old apple-tree he knelt at sunrise and thanked God when they came to tell him that all was well .
`` Alice was always a creature of joy .
This old garden rang with her laughter in those years .
She seldom walked -- she ran or danced .
She only lived twenty years , but nineteen of them were so happy I 've never pitied her over much .
She had everything that makes life worth living -- laughter and love , and at the last sorrow .
James Milburn was her lover .
It 's thirty-one years since his ship sailed out of that harbour and Alice waved him good-bye from this garden .
He never came back .
His ship was never heard of again .
`` When Alice gave up hope that it would be , she died of a broken heart .
They say there 's no such thing ; but nothing else ailed Alice .
She stood at yonder gate day after day and watched the harbour ; and when at last she gave up hope life went with it .
I remember the day : she had watched until sunset .
Then she turned away from the gate .
All the unrest and despair had gone out of her eyes .
There was a terrible peace in them -- the peace of the dead .
` He will never come back now , Abel , ' she said to me .
`` In less than a week she was dead .
The others mourned her , but I did n't , master .
She had sounded the deeps of living and there was nothing else to linger through the years for .
My grief had spent itself earlier , when I walked this garden in agony because I could not help her .
But often , on these long warm summer afternoons , I seem to hear Alice 's laughter all over this garden ; though she 's been dead so long . ''
He lapsed into a reverie which I did not disturb , and it was not until another day that I learned of the other memory that he cherished .
He reverted to it suddenly as we sat again in the hop-vine arbour , looking at the glimmering radiance of the September sea .
`` Master , how many of us are sitting here ? ''
`` Two in the flesh .
How many in the spirit I know not , '' I answered , humouring his mood .
`` There is one -- the other of the two I spoke of the day I told you about Alice .
It 's harder for me to speak of this one . ''
`` Do n't speak of it if it hurts you , '' I said .
`` But I want to .
It 's a whim of mine .
Do you know why I told you of Alice and why I 'm going to tell you of Mercedes ?
It 's because I want someone to remember them and think of them sometimes after I 'm gone .
I ca n't bear that their names should be utterly forgotten by all living souls .
`` My older brother , Alec , was a sailor , and on his last voyage to the West Indies he married and brought home a Spanish girl .
My father and mother did n't like the match .
Mercedes was a foreigner and a Catholic , and differed from us in every way .
But I never blamed Alec after I saw her .
It was n't that she was so very pretty .
She was slight and dark and ivory-coloured .
But she was very graceful , and there was a charm about her , master -- a mighty and potent charm .
The women could n't understand it .
They wondered at Alec 's infatuation for her .
I never did .
I -- I loved her , too , master , before I had known her a day .
Nobody ever knew it .
Mercedes never dreamed of it .
But it 's lasted me all my life .
I never wanted to think of any other woman .
She spoiled a man for any other kind of woman -- that little pale , dark-eyed Spanish girl .
To love her was like drinking some rare sparkling wine .
You 'd never again have any taste for a commoner draught .
`` I think she was very happy the year she spent here .
Our thrifty women-folk in Stillwater jeered at her because she was n't what they called capable .
They said she could n't do anything .
But she could do one thing well -- she could love .
She worshipped Alec .
I used to hate him for it .
Oh , my heart has been very full of black thoughts in its time , master .
But neither Alec nor Mercedes ever knew .
And I 'm thankful now that they were so happy .
Alec made this arbour for Mercedes -- at least he made the trellis , and she planted the vines .
`` She used to sit here most of the time in summer .
I suppose that 's why I like to sit here .
Her eyes would be dreamy and far-away until Alec would flash his welcome .
How that used to torture me !
But now I like to remember it .
And her pretty soft foreign voice and little white hands .
She died after she had lived here a year .
They buried her and her baby in the graveyard of that little chapel over the harbour where the bell rings every evening .
She used to like sitting here and listening to it .
Alec lived a long while after , but he never married again .
He 's gone now , and nobody remembers Mercedes but me . ''
Abel lapsed into a reverie -- a tryst with the past which I would not disturb .
I thought he did not notice my departure , but as I opened the gate he stood up and waved his hand .
Three days later I went again to the old garden by the harbour shore .
There was a red light on a distant sail .
In the far west a sunset city was built around a great deep harbour of twilight .
Palaces were there and bannered towers of crimson and gold .
The air was full of music ; there was one music of the wind and another of the waves , and still another of the distant bell from the chapel near which Mercedes slept .
The garden was full of ripe odours and warm colours .
The Lombardies around it were tall and sombre like the priestly forms of some mystic band .
Abel was sitting in the hop-vine arbour ; beside him Captain Kidd slept .
I thought Abel was asleep , too ; his head leaned against the trellis and his eyes were shut .
But when I reached the arbour I saw that he was not asleep .
There was a strange , wise little smile on his lips as if he had attained to the ultimate wisdom and were laughing in no unkindly fashion at our old blind suppositions and perplexities .
Abel had gone on his Great Adventure .
Akin To Love David Hartley had dropped in to pay a neighbourly call on Josephine Elliott .
It was well along in the afternoon , and outside , in the clear crispness of a Canadian winter , the long blue shadows from the tall firs behind the house were falling over the snow .
It was a frosty day , and all the windows of every room where there was no fire were covered with silver palms .
But the big , bright kitchen was warm and cosy , and somehow seemed to David more tempting than ever before , and that is saying a good deal .
He had an uneasy feeling that he had stayed long enough and ought to go .
Josephine was knitting at a long gray sock with doubly aggressive energy , and that was a sign that she was talked out .
As long as Josephine had plenty to say , her plump white fingers , where her mother 's wedding ring was lost in dimples , moved slowly among her needles .
When conversation flagged she fell to her work as furiously as if a husband and half a dozen sons were waiting for its completion .
David often wondered in his secret soul what Josephine did with all the interminable gray socks she knitted .
Sometimes he concluded that she put them in the home missionary barrels ; again , that she sold them to her hired man .
At any rate , they were very warm and comfortable looking , and David sighed as he thought of the deplorable state his own socks were generally in .
When David sighed Josephine took alarm .
She was afraid David was going to have one of his attacks of foolishness .
She must head him off someway , so she rolled up the gray sock , stabbed the big pudgy ball with her needles , and said she guessed she 'd get the tea .
David got up .
`` Now , you 're not going before tea ? ''
said Josephine hospitably .
`` I 'll have it all ready in no time . ''
`` I ought to go home , I s ` pose , '' said David , with the air and tone of a man dallying with a great temptation .
`` Zillah 'll be waiting tea for me ; and there 's the stock to tend to . ''
`` I guess Zillah wo n't wait long , '' said Josephine .
She did not intend it at all , but there was a certain scornful ring in her voice .
`` You must stay .
I 've a fancy for company to tea . ''
David sat down again .
He looked so pleased that Josephine went down on her knees behind the stove , ostensibly to get a stick of firewood , but really to hide her smile .
`` I suppose he 's tickled to death to think of getting a good square meal , after the starvation rations Zillah puts him on , '' she thought .
But Josephine misjudged David just as much as he misjudged her .
She had really asked him to stay to tea out of pity , but David thought it was because she was lonesome , and he hailed that as an encouraging sign .
And he was not thinking about getting a good meal either , although his dinner had been such a one as only Zillah Hartley could get up .
As he leaned back in his cushioned chair and watched Josephine bustling about the kitchen , he was glorying in the fact that he could spend another hour with her , and sit opposite to her at the table while she poured his tea for him and passed him the biscuits , just as if -- just as if -- Here Josephine looked straight at him with such intent and stern brown eyes that David felt she must have read his thoughts , and he colored guiltily .
But Josephine did not even notice that he was blushing .
She had only paused to wonder whether she would bring out cherry or strawberry preserve ; and , having decided on the cherry , took her piercing gaze from David without having seen him at all .
But he allowed his thoughts no more vagaries .
Josephine set the table with her mother 's wedding china .
She used it because it was the anniversary of her mother 's wedding day , but David thought it was out of compliment to him .
And , as he knew quite well that Josephine prized that china beyond all her other earthly possessions , he stroked his smooth-shaven , dimpled chin with the air of a man to whom is offered a very subtly sweet homage .
Josephine whisked in and out of the pantry , and up and down cellar , and with every whisk a new dainty was added to the table .
Josephine , as everybody in Meadowby admitted , was past mistress in the noble art of cookery .
Once upon a time rash matrons and ambitious young wives had aspired to rival her , but they had long ago realised the vanity of such efforts and dropped comfortably back to second place .
Josephine felt an artist 's pride in her table when she set the teapot on its stand and invited David to sit in .
There were pink slices of cold tongue , and crisp green pickles and spiced gooseberry , the recipe for which Josephine had invented herself , and which had taken first prize at the Provincial Exhibition for six successive years ; there was a lemon pie which was a symphony in gold and silver , biscuits as light and white as snow , and moist , plummy cubes of fruit cake .
There was the ruby-tinted cherry preserve , a mound of amber jelly , and , to crown all , steaming cups of tea , in flavour and fragrance unequalled .
And Josephine , too , sitting at the head of the table , with her smooth , glossy crimps of black hair and cheeks as rosy clear as they had been twenty years ago , when she had been a slender slip of girlhood and bashful young David Hartley had looked at her over his hymn-book in prayer-meeting and tramped all the way home a few feet behind her , because he was too shy to go boldly up and ask if he might see her home .
All taken together , what wonder if David lost his head over that tea-table and determined to ask Josephine the same old question once more ?
It was eighteen years since he had asked it for the first time , and two years since the last .
He would try his luck again ; Josephine was certainly more gracious than he remembered her to ever have been before .
When the meal was over Josephine cleared the table and washed the dishes .
When she had taken a dry towel and sat down by the window to polish her china David understood that his opportunity had come .
He moved over and sat down beside her on the sofa by the window .
Outside the sun was setting in a magnificent arch of light and colour over the snow-clad hills and deep blue St. Lawrence gulf .
David grasped at the sunset as an introductory factor .
`` Is n't that fine , Josephine ? ''
he said admiringly .
`` It makes me think of that piece of poetry that used to be in the old Fifth Reader when we went to school .
D'ye mind how the teacher used to drill us up in it on Friday afternoons ?
It begun ` Slow sinks more lovely ere his race is run Along Morea 's hills the setting sun . ' ''
Then David declaimed the whole passage in a sing-song tone , accompanied by a few crude gestures recalled from long-ago school-boy elocution .
Josephine knew what was coming .
Every time David proposed to her he had begun by reciting poetry .
She twirled her towel around the last plate resignedly .
If it had to come , the sooner it was over the better .
Josephine knew by experience that there was no heading David off , despite his shyness , when he had once got along as far as the poetry .
`` But it 's going to be for the last time , '' she said determinedly .
`` I 'm going to settle this question so decidedly to-night that there 'll never be a repetition . ''
When David had finished his quotation he laid his hand on Josephine 's plump arm .
`` Josephine , '' he said huskily , `` I s ` pose you could n't -- could you now ?
-- make up your mind to have me .
I wish you would , Josephine -- I wish you would .
Do n't you think you could , Josephine ? ''
Josephine folded up her towel , crossed her hands on it , and looked her wooer squarely in the eyes .
`` David Hartley , '' she said deliberately , `` what makes you go on asking me to marry you every once in a while when I 've told you times out of mind that I ca n't and wo n't ? ''
`` Because I ca n't help hoping that you 'll change your mind through time , '' David replied meekly .
`` Well , you just listen to me .
I will not marry you .
That is in the first place .
And in the second , this is to be final .
It has to be .
You are never to ask me this again under any circumstances .
If you do I will not answer you -- I will not let on I hear you at all ; but -LRB- and Josephine spoke very slowly and impressively -RRB- I will never speak to you again -- never .
We are good friends now , and I like you real well , and like to have you drop in for a neighbourly chat as often as you wish to , but there 'll be an end , short and sudden , to that , if you do n't mind what I say . ''
`` Oh , Josephine , ai n't that rather hard ? ''
protested David feebly .
It seemed terrible to be cut off from all hope with such finality as this .
`` I mean every word of it , '' returned Josephine calmly .
`` You 'd better go home now , David .
I always feel as if I 'd like to be alone for a spell after a disagreeable experience . ''
David obeyed sadly and put on his cap and overcoat .
Josephine kindly warned him not to slip and break his legs on the porch , because the floor was as icy as anything ; and she even lighted a candle and held it up at the kitchen door to guide him safely out .
David , as he trudged sorrowfully homeward across the fields , carried with him the mental picture of a plump , sonsy woman , in a trim dress of plum-coloured homespun and ruffled blue-check apron , haloed by candlelight .
It was not a very romantic vision , perhaps , but to David it was more beautiful than anything else in the world .
When David was gone Josephine shut the door with a little shiver .
She blew out the candle , for it was not yet dark enough to justify artificial light to her thrifty mind .
She thought the big , empty house , in which she was the only living thing , was very lonely .
It was so still , except for the slow tick of the `` grandfather 's clock '' and the soft purr and crackle of the wood in the stove .
Josephine sat down by the window .
`` I wish some of the Sentners would run down , '' she said aloud .
`` If David had n't been so ridiculous I 'd have got him to stay the evening .
He can be good company when he likes -- he 's real well-read and intelligent .
And he must have dismal times at home there with nobody but Zillah . ''
She looked across the yard to the little house at the other side of it , where her French-Canadian hired man lived , and watched the purple spiral of smoke from its chimney curling up against the crocus sky .
Would she run over and see Mrs. Leon Poirier and her little black-eyed , brown-skinned baby ?
No , they never knew what to say to each other .
`` If 't was n't so cold I 'd go up and see Ida , '' she said .
`` As it is , I guess I 'd better fall back on my knitting , for I saw Jimmy Sentner 's toes sticking through his socks the other day .
How setback poor David did look , to be sure !
But I think I 've settled that marrying notion of his once for all and I 'm glad of it . ''
She said the same thing next day to Mrs. Tom Sentner , who had come down to help her pick her geese .
They were at work in the kitchen with a big tubful of feathers between them , and on the table a row of dead birds , which Leon had killed and brought in .
Josephine was enveloped in a shapeless print wrapper , and had an apron tied tightly around her head to keep the down out of her beautiful hair , of which she was rather proud .
`` What do you think , Ida ? ''
she said , with a hearty laugh at the recollection .
`` David Hartley was here to tea last night , and asked me to marry him again .
There 's a persistent man for you .
I ca n't brag of ever having had many beaux , but I 've certainly had my fair share of proposals . ''
Mrs. Tom did not laugh .
Her thin little face , with its faded prettiness , looked as if she never laughed .
`` Why wo n't you marry him ? ''
she said fretfully .
`` Why should I ? ''
retorted Josephine .
`` Tell me that , Ida Sentner . ''
`` Because it is high time you were married , '' said Mrs. Tom decisively .
`` I do n't believe in women living single .
And I do n't see what better you can do than take David Hartley . ''
Josephine looked at her sister with the interested expression of a person who is trying to understand some mental attitude in another which is a standing puzzle to her .
Ida 's evident wish to see her married always amused Josephine .
Ida had married very young and for fifteen years her life had been one of drudgery and ill-health .
Tom Sentner was a lazy , shiftless fellow .
He neglected his family and was drunk half his time .
Meadowby people said that he beat his wife when `` on the spree , '' but Josephine did not believe that , because she did not think that Ida could keep from telling her if it were so .
Ida Sentner was not given to bearing her trials in silence .
Had it not been for Josephine 's assistance , Tom Sentner 's family would have stood an excellent chance of starvation .
Josephine practically kept them , and her generosity never failed or stinted .
She fed and clothed her nephews and nieces , and all the gray socks whose destination puzzled David so much went to the Sentners .
As for Josephine herself , she had a good farm , a comfortable house , a plump bank account , and was an independent , unworried woman .
And yet , in the face of all this , Mrs. Tom Sentner could bewail the fact that Josephine had no husband to look out for her .
Josephine shrugged her shoulders and gave up the conundrum , merely saying ironically , in reply to her sister 's remark : `` And go to live with Zillah Hartley ? ''
`` You know very well you would n't have to do that .
Ever since John Hartley 's wife at the Creek died he 's been wanting Zillah to go and keep house for him , and if David got married Zillah 'd go quick .
Catch her staying there if you were mistress !
And David has such a beautiful house !
It 's ten times finer than yours , though I do n't deny yours is comfortable .
And his farm is the best in Meadowby and joins yours .
Think what a beautiful property they 'd make together .
You 're all right now , Josephine , but what will you do when you get old and have nobody to take care of you ?
I declare the thought worries me at night till I ca n't sleep . ''
`` I should have thought you had enough worries of your own to keep you awake at nights without taking over any of mine , '' said Josephine drily .
`` As for old age , it 's a good ways off for me yet .
When your Jack gets old enough to have some sense he can come here and live with me .
But I 'm not going to marry David Hartley , you can depend on that , Ida , my dear .
I wish you could have heard him rhyming off that poetry last night .
It does n't seem to matter much what piece he recites -- first thing that comes into his head , I reckon .
I remember one time he went clean through that hymn beginning , ` Hark from the tombs a doleful sound , ' and two years ago it was ` To Mary in Heaven , ' as lackadaisical as you please .
I never had such a time to keep from laughing , but I managed it , for I would n't hurt his feelings for the world .
No , I have n't any intention of marrying anybody , but if I had it would n't be dear old sentimental , easy-going David . ''
Mrs. Tom thumped a plucked goose down on the bench with an expression which said that she , for one , was n't going to waste any more words on an idiot .
Easy-going , indeed !
Did Josephine consider that a drawback ?
Mrs. Tom sighed .
If Josephine , she thought , had put up with Tom Sentner 's tempers for fifteen years she would know how to appreciate a good-natured man at his real value .
The cold snap which had set in on the day of David 's call lasted and deepened for a week .
On Saturday evening , when Mrs. Tom came down for a jug of cream , the mercury of the little thermometer thumping against Josephine 's porch was below zero .
The gulf was no longer blue , but white with ice .
Everything outdoors was crackling and snapping .
Inside Josephine had kept roaring fires all through the house but the only place really warm was the kitchen .
`` Wrap your head up well , Ida , '' she said anxiously , when Mrs. Tom rose to go .
`` You 've got a bad cold . ''
`` There 's a cold going , '' said Mrs. Tom .
`` Everyone has it .
David Hartley was up at our place to-day barking terrible -- a real churchyard cough , as I told him .
He never takes any care of himself .
He said Zillah had a bad cold , too .
Wo n't she be cranky while it lasts ? ''
Josephine sat up late that night to keep fires on .
She finally went to bed in the little room opposite the big hall stove , and she slept at once , and dreamed that the thumps of the thermometer flapping in the wind against the wall outside grew louder and more insistent until they woke her up .
Some one was pounding on the porch door .
Josephine sprang out of bed and hurried on her wrapper and felt shoes .
She had no doubt that some of the Sentners were sick .
They had a habit of getting sick about that time of night .
She hurried out and opened the door , expecting to see hulking Tom Sentner , or perhaps Ida herself , big-eyed and hysterical .
But David Hartley stood there , panting for breath .
The clear moonlight showed that he had no overcoat on , and he was coughing hard .
Josephine , before she spoke a word , clutched him by the arm and pulled him in out of the wind .
`` For pity 's sake , David Hartley , what is the matter ? ''
`` Zillah 's awful sick , '' he gasped .
`` I came here because 't was nearest .
Oh , wo n't you come over , Josephine ?
I 've got to go for the doctor and I ca n't leave her alone .
She 's suffering dreadful .
I know you and her ai n't on good terms , but you 'll come , wo n't you ? ''
`` Of course I will , '' said Josephine sharply .
`` I 'm not a barbarian , I hope , to refuse to go to the help of a sick person , if 't was my worst enemy .
I 'll go in and get ready and you go straight to the hall stove and warm yourself .
There 's a good fire in it yet .
What on earth do you mean , starting out on a bitter night like this without an overcoat or even mittens , and you with a cold like that ? ''
`` I never thought of them , I was so frightened , '' said David apologetically .
`` I just lit up a fire in the kitchen stove as quick 's I could and run .
It rattled me to hear Zillah moaning so 's you could hear her all over the house . ''
`` You need someone to look after you as bad as Zillah does , '' said Josephine severely .
In a very few minutes she was ready , with a basket packed full of homely remedies , `` for like as not there 'll be no putting one 's hand on anything there , '' she muttered .
She insisted on wrapping her big plaid shawl around David 's head and neck , and made him put on a pair of mittens she had knitted for Jack Sentner .
Then she locked the door and they started across the gleaming , crusted field .
It was so slippery that Josephine had to cling to David 's arm to keep her feet .
In the rapture of supporting her David almost forgot everything else .
In a few minutes they had passed under the bare , glistening boughs of the poplars on David 's lawn , and for the first time Josephine crossed the threshold of David Hartley 's house .
Years ago , in her girlhood , when the Hartley 's lived in the old house and there were half a dozen girls at home , Josephine had frequently visited there .
All the Hartley girls liked her except Zillah .
She and Zillah never `` got on '' together .
When the other girls had married and gone , Josephine gave up visiting there .
She had never been inside the new house , and she and Zillah had not spoken to each other for years .
Zillah was a sick woman -- too sick to be anything but civil to Josephine .
David started at once for the doctor at the Creek , and Josephine saw that he was well wrapped up before she let him go .
Then she mixed up a mustard plaster for Zillah and sat down by the bedside to wait .
When Mrs. Tom Sentner came down the next day she found Josephine busy making flaxseed poultices , with her lips set in a line that betokened she had made up her mind to some disagreeable course of duty .
`` Zillah has got pneumonia bad , '' she said , in reply to Mrs. Tom 's inquiries .
`` The Doctor is here and Mary Bell from the Creek .
She 'll wait on Zillah , but there 'll have to be another woman here to see to the work .
I reckon I 'll stay .
I suppose it 's my duty and I do n't see who else could be got .
You can send Mamie and Jack down to stay at my house until I can go back .
I 'll run over every day and keep an eye on things . ''
At the end of a week Zillah was out of danger .
Saturday afternoon Josephine went over home to see how Mamie and Jack were getting on .
She found Mrs. Tom there , and the latter promptly despatched Jack and Mamie to the post-office that she might have an opportunity to hear Josephine 's news .
`` I 've had an awful week of it , Ida , '' said Josephine solemnly , as she sat down by the stove and put her feet up on the glowing hearth .
`` I suppose Zillah is pretty cranky to wait on , '' said Mrs. Tom sympathetically .
`` Oh , it is n't Zillah .
Mary Bell looks after her .
No , it 's the house .
I never lived in such a place of dust and disorder in my born days .
I 'm sorrier for David Hartley than I ever was for anyone before . ''
`` I suppose he 's used to it , '' said Mrs. Tom with a shrug .
`` I do n't see how anyone could ever get used to it , '' groaned Josephine .
`` And David used to be so particular when he was a boy .
The minute I went there the other night I took in that kitchen with a look .
I do n't believe the paint has even been washed since the house was built .
I honestly do n't .
And I would n't like to be called upon to swear when the floor was scrubbed either .
The corners were just full of rolls of dust -- you could have shovelled it out .
I swept it out next day and I thought I 'd be choked .
As for the pantry -- well , the less said about that the better .
And it 's the same all through the house .
You could write your name on everything .
I could n't so much as clean up .
Zillah was so sick there could n't be a bit of noise made .
I did manage to sweep and dust , and I cleaned out the pantry .
And , of course , I saw that the meals were nice and well cooked .
You should have seen David 's face .
He looked as if he could n't get used to having things clean and tasty .
I darned his socks -- he had n't a whole pair to his name -- and I 've done everything I could to give him a little comfort .
Not that I could do much .
If Zillah heard me moving round she 'd send Mary Bell out to ask what the matter was .
When I wanted to go upstairs I 'd have to take off my shoes and tiptoe up on my stocking feet , so 's she would n't know it .
And I 'll have to stay there another fortnight yet .
Zillah wo n't be able to sit up till then .
I do n't really know if I can stand it without falling to and scrubbing the house from garret to cellar in spite of her . ''
Mrs. Tom Sentner did not say much to Josephine .
To herself she said complacently : `` She 's sorry for David .
Well , I 've always heard that pity was akin to love .
We 'll see what comes of this . ''
Josephine did manage to live through that fortnight .
One morning she remarked to David at the breakfast table : `` Well , I think that Mary Bell will be able to attend to the work after today , David .
I guess I 'll go home tonight . ''
David 's face clouded over .
`` Well , I s ` pose we ought n't to keep you any longer , Josephine .
I 'm sure it 's been awful good of you to stay this long .
I do n't know what we 'd have done without you . ''
`` You 're welcome , '' said Josephine shortly .
`` Do n't go for to walk home , '' said David ; `` the snow is too deep .
I 'll drive you over when you want to go . ''
`` I 'll not go before the evening , '' said Josephine slowly .
David went out to his work gloomily .
For three weeks he had been living in comfort .
His wants were carefully attended to ; his meals were well cooked and served , and everything was bright and clean .
And more than all , Josephine had been there , with her cheerful smile and companionable ways .
Well , it was all ended now .
Josephine sat at the breakfast table long after David had gone out .
She scowled at the sugar-bowl and shook her head savagely at the tea-pot .
`` I 'll have to do it , '' she said at last .
`` I 'm so sorry for him that I ca n't do anything else . ''
She got up and went to the window , looking across the snowy field to her own home , nestled between the grove of firs and the orchard .
`` It 's awful snug and comfortable , '' she said regretfully , `` and I 've always felt set on being free and independent .
But it 's no use .
I 'd never have a minute 's peace of mind again , thinking of David living here in dirt and disorder , and him so particular and tidy by nature .
No , it 's my duty , plain and clear , to come here and make things pleasant for him -- the pointing of Providence , as you might say .
The worst of it is , I 'll have to tell him so myself .
He 'll never dare to mention the subject again , after what I said to him that night he proposed last .
I wish I had n't been so dreadful emphatic .
Now I 've got to say it myself if it is ever said .
But I 'll not begin by quoting poetry , that 's one thing sure ! ''
Josephine threw back her head , crowned with its shining braids of jet-black hair , and laughed heartily .
She bustled back to the stove and poked up the fire .
`` I 'll have a bit of corned beef and cabbage for dinner , '' she said , `` and I 'll make David that pudding he 's so fond of .
After all , it 's kind of nice to have someone to plan and think for .
It always did seem like a waste of energy to fuss over cooking things when there was nobody but myself to eat them . ''
Josephine sang over her work all day , and David went about his with the face of a man who is going to the gallows without benefit of clergy .
When he came in to supper at sunset his expression was so woe-begone that Josephine had to dodge into the pantry to keep from laughing outright .
She relieved her feelings by pounding the dresser with the potato masher , and then went primly out and took her place at the table .
The meal was not a success from a social point of view .
Josephine was nervous and David glum .
Mary Bell gobbled down her food with her usual haste , and then went away to carry Zillah hers .
Then David said reluctantly : `` If you want to go home now , Josephine , I 'll hitch up Red Rob and drive you over . ''
Josephine began to plait the tablecloth .
She wished again that she had not been so emphatic on the occasion of his last proposal .
Without replying to David 's suggestion she said crossly -LRB- Josephine always spoke crossly when she was especially in earnest -RRB- : `` I want to tell you what I think about Zillah .
She 's getting better , but she 's had a terrible shaking up , and it 's my opinion that she wo n't be good for much all winter .
She wo n't be able to do any hard work , that 's certain .
If you want my advice , I tell you fair and square that I think she 'd better go off for a visit as soon as she 's fit .
She thinks so herself .
Clementine wants her to go and stay a spell with her in town .
` Twould be just the thing for her . ''
`` She can go if she wants to , of course , '' said David dully .
`` I can get along by myself for a spell . ''
`` There 's no need of your getting along by yourself , '' said Josephine , more crossly than ever .
`` I 'll -- I 'll come here and keep house for you if you like . ''
David looked at her uncomprehendingly .
`` Would n't people kind of gossip ? ''
he asked hesitatingly .
`` Not but what -- '' `` I do n't see what they 'd have to gossip about , '' broke in Josephine , `` if we were -- married . ''
David sprang to his feet with such haste that he almost upset the table .
`` Josephine , do you mean that ? ''
he exclaimed .
`` Of course I mean it , '' she said , in a perfectly savage tone .
`` Now , for pity 's sake , do n't say another word about it just now .
I ca n't discuss it for a spell .
Go out to your work .
I want to be alone for awhile . ''
For the first and last time David disobeyed her .
Instead of going out , he strode around the table , caught Josephine masterfully in his arms , and kissed her .
And Josephine , after a second 's hesitation , kissed him in return .
Aunt Philippa and the Men I knew quite well why Father sent me to Prince Edward Island to visit Aunt Philippa that summer .
He told me he was sending me there `` to learn some sense '' ; and my stepmother , of whom I was very fond , told me she was sure the sea air would do me a world of good .
I did not want to learn sense or be done a world of good ; I wanted to stay in Montreal and go on being foolish -- and make up my quarrel with Mark Fenwick .
Father and Mother did not know anything about this quarrel ; they thought I was still on good terms with him -- and that is why they sent me to Prince Edward Island .
I was very miserable .
I did not want to go to Aunt Philippa 's .
It was not because I feared it would be dull -- for without Mark , Montreal was just as much of a howling wilderness as any other place .
But it was so horribly far away .
When the time came for Mark to want to make up -- as come I knew it would -- how could he do it if I were seven hundred miles away ?
Nevertheless , I went to Prince Edward Island .
In all my eighteen years I had never once disobeyed Father .
He is a very hard man to disobey .
I knew I should have to make a beginning some time if I wanted to marry Mark , so I saved all my little courage up for that and did n't waste any of it opposing the visit to Aunt Philippa .
I could n't understand Father 's point of view .
Of course , he hated old John Fenwick , who had once sued him for libel and won the case .
Father had written an indiscreet editorial in the excitement of a red-hot political contest -- and was made to understand that there are some things you ca n't say of another man even at election time .
But then , he need not have hated Mark because of that ; Mark was not even born when it happened .
Old John Fenwick was not much better pleased about Mark and me than Father was , though he did n't go to the length of forbidding it ; he just acted grumpily and disagreeably .
Things were unpleasant enough all round without a quarrel between Mark and me ; yet quarrel we did -- and over next to nothing , too , you understand .
And now I had to set out for Prince Edward Island without even seeing him , for he was away in Toronto on business .
* * * * * When my train reached Copely the next afternoon , Aunt Philippa was waiting for me .
There was nobody else in sight , but I would have known her had there been a thousand .
Nobody but Aunt Philippa could have that determined mouth , those piercing grey eyes , and that pronounced , unmistakable Goodwin nose .
And certainly nobody but Aunt Philippa would have come to meet me arrayed in a wrapper of chocolate print with huge yellow roses scattered over it , and a striped blue-and-white apron !
She welcomed me kindly but absent-mindedly , her thoughts evidently being concentrated on the problem of getting my trunk home .
I had only the one , and in Montreal it had seemed to be of moderate size ; but on the platform of Copely station , sized up by Aunt Philippa 's merciless eye , it certainly looked huge .
`` I thought we could a-took it along tied on the back of the buggy , '' she said disapprovingly , `` but I guess we 'll have to leave it , and I 'll send the hired boy over for it tonight .
You can get along without it till then , I s ` pose ? ''
There was a fine irony in her tone .
I hastened to assure her meekly that I could , and that it did not matter if my trunk could not be taken up till next day .
`` Oh , Jerry can come for it tonight as well as not , '' said Aunt Philippa , as we climbed into her buggy .
`` I 'd a good notion to send him to meet you , for he is n't doing much today , and I wanted to go to Mrs. Roderick MacAllister 's funeral .
But my head was aching me so bad I thought I would n't enjoy the funeral if I did go .
My head is better now , so I kind of wish I had gone .
She was a hundred and four years old and I 'd always promised myself that I 'd go to her funeral . ''
Aunt Philippa 's tone was melancholy .
She did not recover her good spirits until we were out on the pretty , grassy , elm-shaded country road , garlanded with its ribbon of buttercups .
Then she suddenly turned around and looked me over scrutinizingly .
`` You 're not as good-looking as I expected from your picture , but them photographs always flatter .
That 's the reason I never had any took .
You 're rather thin and brown .
But you 've good eyes and you look clever .
Your father writ me you had n't much sense , though .
He wants me to teach you some , but it 's a thankless business .
People would rather be fools . ''
Aunt Philippa struck her steed smartly with the whip and controlled his resultant friskiness with admirable skill .
`` Well , you know it 's pleasanter , '' I said , wickedly .
`` Just think what a doleful world it would be if everybody were sensible . ''
Aunt Philippa looked at me out of the corner of her eye and disdained any skirmish of flippant epigram .
`` So you want to get married ? ''
she said .
`` You 'd better wait till you 're grown up . ''
`` How old must a person be before she is grown up ? ''
I asked gravely .
`` Humph !
That depends .
Some are grown up when they 're born , and others ai n't grown up when they 're eighty .
That same Mrs. Roderick I was speaking of never grew up .
She was as foolish when she was a hundred as when she was ten . ''
`` Perhaps that 's why she lived so long , '' I suggested .
All thought of seeking sympathy in Aunt Philippa had vanished .
I resolved I would not even mention Mark 's name .
`` Mebbe 't was , '' admitted Aunt Philippa with a grim smile . ''
I 'd rather live fifty sensible years than a hundred foolish ones . ''
Much to my relief , she made no further reference to my affairs .
As we rounded a curve in the road where two great over-arching elms met , a buggy wheeled by us , occupied by a young man in clerical costume .
He had a pleasant boyish face , and he touched his hat courteously .
Aunt Philippa nodded very frostily and gave her horse a quite undeserved cut .
`` There 's a man you do n't want to have much to do with , '' she said portentously .
`` He 's a Methodist minister . ''
`` Why , Auntie , the Methodists are a very nice denomination , '' I protested .
`` My stepmother is a Methodist , you know . ''
`` No , I did n't know , but I 'd believe anything of a stepmother .
I 've no use for Methodists or their ministers .
This fellow just came last spring , and it 's my opinion he smokes .
And he thinks every girl who looks at him falls in love with him -- as if a Methodist minister was any prize !
Do n't you take much notice of him , Ursula . ''
`` I 'll not be likely to have the chance , '' I said , with an amused smile .
`` Oh , you 'll see enough of him .
He boards at Mrs. John Callman 's , just across the road from us , and he 's always out sunning himself on her verandah .
Never studies , of course .
Last Sunday they say he preached on the iron that floated .
If he 'd confine himself to the Bible and leave sensational subjects alone it would be better for him and his poor congregation , and so I told Mrs. John Callman to her face .
I should think she would have had enough of his sex by this time .
She married John Callman against her father 's will , and he had delirious trembles for years .
That 's the men for you . ''
`` They 're not all like that , Aunt Philippa , '' I protested .
`` Most of 'em are .
See that house over there ?
Mrs. Jane Harrison lives there .
Her husband took tantrums every few days or so and would n't get out of bed .
She had to do all the barn work till he 'd got over his spell .
That 's men for you .
When he died , people writ her letters of condolence but I just sot down and writ her one of congratulation .
There 's the Presbyterian manse in the hollow .
Mr. Bentwell 's our minister .
He 's a good man and he 'd be a rather nice one if he did n't think it was his duty to be a little miserable all the time .
He wo n't let his wife wear a fashionable hat , and his daughter ca n't fix her hair the way she wants to .
Even being a minister ca n't prevent a man from being a crank .
Here 's Ebenezer Milgrave coming .
You take a good look at him .
He used to be insane for years .
He believed he was dead and used to rage at his wife because she would n't bury him .
I 'd a-done it . ''
Aunt Philippa looked so determinedly grim that I could almost see her with a spade in her hand .
I laughed aloud at the picture summoned up .
`` Yes , it 's funny , but I guess his poor wife did n't find it very humorsome .
He 's been pretty sane for some years now , but you never can tell when he 'll break out again .
He 's got a brother , Albert Milgrave , who 's been married twice .
They say he was courting his second wife while his first was dying .
Let that be as it may , he used his first wife 's wedding ring to marry the second .
That 's the men for you . ''
`` Do n't you know any good husbands , Aunt Philippa ? ''
I asked desperately .
`` Oh , yes , lots of 'em -- over there , '' said Aunt Philippa sardonically , waving her whip in the direction of a little country graveyard on a distant hill .
`` Yes , but living -- walking about in the flesh ? ''
`` Precious few .
Now and again you 'll come across a man whose wife wo n't put up with any nonsense and he has to be respectable .
But the most of 'em are poor bargains -- poor bargains . ''
`` And are all the wives saints ? ''
I persisted .
`` Laws , no , but they 're too good for the men , '' retorted Aunt Philippa , as she turned in at her own gate .
Her house was close to the road and was painted such a vivid green that the landscape looked faded by contrast .
Across the gable end of it was the legend , `` Philippa 's Farm , '' emblazoned in huge black letters two feet long .
All its surroundings were very neat .
On the kitchen doorstep a patchwork cat was making a grave toilet .
The groundwork of the cat was white , and its spots were black , yellow , grey , and brown .
`` There 's Joseph , '' said Aunt Philippa .
`` I call him that because his coat is of many colours .
But I ai n't no lover of cats .
They 're too much like the men to suit me . ''
`` Cats have always been supposed to be peculiarly feminine , '' I said , descending . ''
'T was a man that supposed it , then , '' retorted Aunt Philippa , beckoning to her hired boy .
`` Here , Jerry , put Prince away .
Jerry 's a good sort of boy , '' she confided to me as we went into the house .
`` I had Jim Spencer last summer and the only good thing about him was his appetite .
I put up with him till harvest was in , and then one day my patience give out .
He upsot a churnful of cream in the back yard -- and was just as cool as a cowcumber over it -- laughed and said it was good for the land .
I told him I was n't in the habit of fertilizing my back yard with cream .
But that 's the men for you .
Come in .
I 'll have tea ready in no time .
I sot the table before I left .
There 's lemon pie .
Mrs. John Cantwell sent it over .
I never make lemon pie myself .
Ten years ago I took the prize for lemon pies at the county fair , and I 've never made any since for fear I 'd lose my reputation for them . ''
* * * * * The first month of my stay passed not unpleasantly .
The summer weather was delightful , and the sea air was certainly splendid .
Aunt Philippa 's little farm ran right down to the shore , and I spent much of my time there .
There were also several families of cousins to be visited in the farmhouses that dotted the pretty , seaward-sloping valley , and they came back to see me at `` Philippa 's Farm . ''
I picked spruce gum and berries and ferns , and Aunt Philippa taught me to make butter .
It was all very idyllic -- or would have been if Mark had written .
But Mark did not write .
I supposed he must be very angry because I had run off to Prince Edward Island without so much as a note of goodbye .
But I had been so sure he would understand !
Aunt Philippa never made any further reference to the reason Father had sent me to her , but she allowed no day to pass without holding up to me some horrible example of matrimonial infelicity .
The number of unhappy wives who walked or drove past `` Philippa 's Farm '' every afternoon , as we sat on the verandah , was truly pitiable .
We always sat on the verandah in the afternoon , when we were not visiting or being visited .
I made a pretence of fancy work , and Aunt Philippa spun diligently on a little old-fashioned spinning-wheel that had been her grandmother 's .
She always sat before the wood stand which held her flowers , and the gorgeous blots of geranium blossom and big green leaves furnished a pretty background .
She always wore her shapeless but clean print wrappers , and her iron-grey hair was always combed neatly down over her ears .
Joseph sat between us , sleeping or purring .
She spun so expertly that she could keep a close watch on the road as well , and I got the biography of every individual who went by .
As for the poor young Methodist minister , who liked to read or walk on the verandah of our neighbour 's house , Aunt Philippa never had a good word for him .
I had met him once or twice socially and had liked him .
I wanted to ask him to call but dared not -- Aunt Philippa had vowed he should never enter her house .
`` If I was dead and he came to my funeral I 'd rise up and order him out , '' she said .
`` I thought he made a very nice prayer at Mrs. Seaman 's funeral the other day , '' I said .
`` Oh , I 've no doubt he can pray .
I never heard anyone make more beautiful prayers than old Simon Kennedy down at the harbour , who was always drunk or hoping to be -- and the drunker he was the better he prayed .
It ai n't no matter how well a man prays if his preaching is n't right .
That Methodist man preaches a lot of things that ai n't true , and what 's worse they ai n't sound doctrine .
At least , that 's what I 've heard .
I never was in a Methodist church , thank goodness . ''
`` Do n't you think Methodists go to heaven as well as Presbyterians , Aunt Philippa ? ''
I asked gravely .
`` That ai n't for us to decide , '' said Aunt Philippa solemnly .
`` It 's in higher hands than ours .
But I ai n't going to associate with them on earth , whatever I may have to do in heaven .
The folks round here mostly do n't make much difference and go to the Methodist church quite often .
But I say if you are a Presbyterian , be a Presbyterian .
Of course , if you ai n't , it do n't matter much what you do .
As for that minister man , he has a grand-uncle who was sent to the penitentiary for embezzlement .
I found out that much . ''
And evidently Aunt Philippa had taken an unholy joy in finding it out .
`` I dare say some of our own ancestors deserved to go to the penitentiary , even if they never did , '' I remarked .
`` Who is that woman driving past , Aunt Philippa ?
She must have been very pretty once . ''
`` She was -- and that was all the good it did her .
` Favour is deceitful and beauty is vain , ' Ursula .
She was Sarah Pyatt and she married Fred Proctor .
He was one of your wicked , fascinating men .
After she married him he give up being fascinating but he kept on being wicked .
That 's the men for you .
Her sister Flora were n't much luckier .
Her man was that domineering she could n't call her soul her own .
Finally he could n't get his own way over something and he just suicided by jumping into the well .
A good riddance -- but of course the well was spoiled .
Flora could never abide the thought of using it again , poor thing .
That 's men for you .
`` And there 's that old Enoch Allan on his way to the station .
He 's ninety if he 's a day .
You ca n't kill some folks with a meat axe .
His wife died twenty years ago .
He 'd been married when he was twenty so they 'd lived together for fifty years .
She was a faithful , hard-working creature and kept him out of the poorhouse , for he was a shiftless soul , not lazy , exactly , but just too fond of sitting .
But he were n't grateful .
She had a kind of bitter tongue and they did use to fight scandalous .
O ' course it was all his fault .
Well , she died , and old Enoch and my father drove together to the graveyard .
Old Enoch was awful quiet all the way there and back , but just afore they got home , he says solemnly to Father : ` You may n't believe it , Henry , but this is the happiest day of my life . '
That 's men for you .
His brother , Scotty Allan , was the meanest man ever lived in these parts .
When his wife died she was buried with a little gold brooch in her collar unbeknownst to him .
When he found it out he went one night to the graveyard and opened up the grave and the casket to get that brooch . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Philippa , that is a horrible story , '' I cried , recoiling with a shiver over the gruesomeness of it . ''
` Course it is , but what would you expect of a man ? ''
retorted Aunt Philippa .
Somehow , her stories began to affect me in spite of myself .
There were times when I felt very dreary .
Perhaps Aunt Philippa was right .
Perhaps men possessed neither truth nor constancy .
Certainly Mark had forgotten me .
I was ashamed of myself because this hurt me so much , but I could not help it .
I grew pale and listless .
Aunt Philippa sometimes peered at me sharply , but she held her peace .
I was grateful for this .
* * * * * But one day a letter did come from Mark .
I dared not read it until I was safely in my own room .
Then I opened it with trembling fingers .
The letter was a little stiff .
Evidently Mark was feeling sore enough over things .
He made no reference to our quarrel or to my sojourn in Prince Edward Island .
He wrote that his firm was sending him to South Africa to take charge of their interests there .
He would leave in three weeks ' time and could not return for five years .
If I still cared anything for him , would I meet him in Halifax , marry him , and go to South Africa with him ?
If I would not , he would understand that I had ceased to love him and that all was over between us .
That , boiled down , was the gist of Mark 's letter .
When I had read it I cast myself on the bed and wept out all the tears I had refused to let myself shed during my weeks of exile .
For I could not do what Mark asked -- I could not .
I could n't run away to be married in that desolate , unbefriended fashion .
It would be a disgrace .
I would feel ashamed of it all my life and be unhappy over it .
I thought that Mark was rather unreasonable .
He knew what my feelings about run-away marriages were .
And was it absolutely necessary for him to go to South Africa ?
Of course his father was behind it somewhere , but surely he could have got out of it if he had really tried .
Well , if he went to South Africa he must go alone .
But my heart would break .
I cried the whole afternoon , cowering among my pillows .
I never wanted to go out of that room again .
I never wanted to see anybody again .
I hated the thought of facing Aunt Philippa with her cold eyes and her miserable stories that seemed to strip life of all beauty and love of all reality .
I could hear her scornful , `` That 's the men for you , '' if she heard what was in Mark 's letter .
`` What is the matter , Ursula ? ''
Aunt Philippa was standing by my bed .
I was too abject to resent her coming in without knocking .
`` Nothing , '' I said spiritlessly .
`` If you 've been crying for three mortal hours over nothing you want a good spanking and you 'll get it , '' observed Aunt Philippa placidly , sitting down on my trunk .
`` Get right up off that bed this minute and tell me what the trouble is .
I 'm bound to know , for I 'm in your father 's place at present . ''
`` There , then ! ''
I flung her Mark 's letter .
There was n't anything in it that it was sacrilege to let another person see .
That was one reason why I had been crying .
Aunt Philippa read it over twice .
Then she folded it up deliberately and put it back in the envelope .
`` What are you going to do ? ''
she asked in a matter-of-fact tone .
`` I 'm not going to run away to be married , '' I answered sullenly .
`` Well , no , I would n't advise you to , '' said Aunt Philippa reflectively .
`` It 's a kind of low-down thing to do , though there 's been a terrible lot of romantic nonsense talked and writ about eloping .
It may be a painful necessity sometimes , but it ai n't in this case .
You write to your young man and tell him to come here and be married respectable under my roof , same as a Goodwin ought to . ''
I sat up and stared at Aunt Philippa .
I was so amazed that it is useless to try to express my amazement .
`` Aunt -- Philippa , '' I gasped .
`` I thought -- I thought -- '' `` You thought I was a hard old customer , and so I am , '' said Aunt Philippa .
`` But I do n't take my opinions from your father nor anybody else .
It did n't prejudice me any against your young man that your father did n't like him .
I knew your father of old .
I have some other friends in Montreal and I writ to them and asked them what he was like .
From what they said I judged he was decent enough as men go .
You 're too young to be married , but if you let him go off to South Africa he 'll slip through your fingers for sure , and I s ` pose you 're like some of the rest of us -- nobody 'll do you but the one .
So tell him to come here and be married . ''
`` I do n't see how I can , '' I gasped .
`` I ca n't get ready to be married in three weeks .
I ca n't -- '' `` I should think you have enough clothes in that trunk to do you for a spell , '' said Aunt Philippa sarcastically .
`` You 've more than my mother ever had in all her life .
We 'll get you a wedding dress of some kind .
You can get it made in Charlottetown , if country dressmakers are n't good enough for you , and I 'll bake you a wedding cake that 'll taste as good as anything you could get in Montreal , even if it wo n't look so stylish . ''
`` What will Father say ? ''
I questioned .
`` Lots o ' things , '' conceded Aunt Philippa grimly .
`` But I do n't see as it matters when neither you nor me 'll be there to have our feelings hurt .
I 'll write a few things to your father .
He has n't got much sense .
He ought to be thankful to get a decent young man for his son-in-law in a world where most every man is a wolf in sheep 's clothing .
But that 's the men for you . ''
And that was Aunt Philippa for you .
For the next three weeks she was a blissfully excited , busy woman .
I was allowed to choose the material and fashion of my wedding suit and hat myself , but almost everything else was settled by Aunt Philippa .
I did n't mind ; it was a relief to be rid of all responsibility ; I did protest when she declared her intention of having a big wedding and asking all the cousins and semi-cousins on the island , but Aunt Philippa swept my objections lightly aside .
`` I 'm bound to have one good wedding in this house , '' she said .
`` Not likely I 'll ever have another chance . ''
She found time amid all the baking and concocting to warn me frequently not to take it too much to heart if Mark failed to come after all .
`` I know a man who jilted a girl on her wedding day .
That 's the men for you .
It 's best to be prepared . ''
But Mark did come , getting there the evening before our wedding day .
And then a severe blow fell on Aunt Philippa .
Word came from the manse that Mr. Bentwell had been suddenly summoned to Nova Scotia to his mother 's deathbed ; he had started that night .
`` That 's the men for you , '' said Aunt Philippa bitterly .
`` Never can depend on one of them , not even on a minister .
What 's to be done now ? ''
`` Get another minister , '' said Mark easily .
`` Where 'll you get him ? ''
demanded Aunt Philippa .
`` The minister at Cliftonville is away on his vacation , and Mercer is vacant , and that leaves none nearer than town .
It wo n't do to depend on a town minister being able to come .
No , there 's no help for it .
You 'll have to have that Methodist man . ''
Aunt Philippa 's tone was tragic .
Plainly she thought the ceremony would scarcely be legal if that Methodist man married us .
But neither Mark nor I cared .
We were too happy to be disturbed by any such trifles .
The young Methodist minister married us the next day in the presence of many beaming guests .
Aunt Philippa , splendid in black silk and point-lace collar , neither of which lost a whit of dignity or lustre by being made ten years before , was composure itself while the ceremony was going on .
But no sooner had the minister pronounced us man and wife than she spoke up .
`` Now that 's over I want someone to go right out and put out the fire on the kitchen roof .
It 's been on fire for the last ten minutes . ''
Minister and bridegroom headed the emergency brigade , and Aunt Philippa pumped the water for them .
In a short time the fire was out , all was safe , and we were receiving our deferred congratulations .
`` Now , young man , '' said Aunt Philippa solemnly as she shook hands with Mark , `` do n't you ever try to get out of this , even if a Methodist minister did marry you . ''
She insisted on driving us to the train and said goodbye to us as we stood on the car steps .
She had caught more of the shower of rice than I had , and as the day was hot and sunny she had tied over her head , atop of that festal silk dress , a huge , home-made , untrimmed straw hat .
But she did not look ridiculous .
There was a certain dignity about Aunt Philippa in any costume and under any circumstance .
`` Aunt Philippa , '' I said , `` tell me this : why have you helped me to be married ? ''
The train began to move .
`` I refused once to run away myself , and I 've repented it ever since . ''
Then , as the train gathered speed and the distance between us widened , she shouted after us , `` But I s ` pose if I had run away I 'd have repented of that too . ''
Bessie 's Doll Tommy Puffer , sauntering up the street , stopped to look at Miss Octavia 's geraniums .
Tommy never could help stopping to look at Miss Octavia 's flowers , much as he hated Miss Octavia .
Today they were certainly worth looking at .
Miss Octavia had set them all out on her verandah -- rows upon rows of them , overflowing down the steps in waves of blossom and colour .
Miss Octavia 's geraniums were famous in Arundel , and she was very proud of them .
But it was her garden which was really the delight of her heart .
Miss Octavia always had the prettiest garden in Arundel , especially as far as annuals were concerned .
Just now it was like faith -- the substance of things hoped for .
The poppies and nasturtiums and balsams and morning glories and sweet peas had been sown in the brown beds on the lawn , but they had not yet begun to come up .
Tommy was still feasting his eyes on the geraniums when Miss Octavia herself came around the corner of the house .
Her face darkened the minute she saw Tommy .
Most people 's did .
Tommy had the reputation of being a very bad , mischievous boy ; he was certainly very poor and ragged , and Miss Octavia disapproved of poverty and rags on principle .
Nobody , she argued , not even a boy of twelve , need be poor and ragged if he is willing to work .
`` Here , you , get away out of this , '' she said sharply .
`` I 'm not going to have you hanging over my palings . ''
`` I ai n't hurting your old palings , '' retorted Tommy sullenly .
`` I was jist a-looking at the flowers . ''
`` Yes , and picking out the next one to throw a stone at , '' said Miss Octavia sarcastically .
`` It was you who threw that stone and broke my big scarlet geranium clear off the other day . ''
`` It was n't -- I never chucked a stone at your flowers , '' said Tommy .
`` Do n't tell me any falsehoods , Tommy Puffer .
It was you .
Did n't I catch you firing stones at my cat a dozen times ? ''
`` I might have fired 'em at an old cat , but I would n't tech a flower , '' avowed Tommy boldly -- brazenly , Miss Octavia thought .
`` You clear out of this or I 'll make you , '' she said warningly .
Tommy had had his ears boxed by Miss Octavia more than once .
He had no desire to have the performance repeated , so he stuck his tongue out at Miss Octavia and then marched up the street with his hands in his pockets , whistling jauntily .
`` He 's the most impudent brat I ever saw in my life , '' muttered Miss Octavia wrathfully .
There was a standing feud between her and all the Arundel small boys , but Tommy was her special object of dislike .
Tommy 's heart was full of wrath and bitterness as he marched away .
He hated Miss Octavia ; he wished something would happen to every one of her flowers ; he knew it was Ned Williams who had thrown that stone , and he hoped Ned would throw some more and smash all the flowers .
So Tommy raged along the street until he came to Mr. Blacklock 's store , and in the window of it he saw something that put Miss Octavia and her disagreeable remarks quite out of his tow-coloured head .
This was nothing more or less than a doll .
Now , Tommy was not a judge of dolls and did not take much interest in them , but he felt quite sure that this was a very fine one .
It was so big ; it was beautifully dressed in blue silk , with a ruffled blue silk hat ; it had lovely long golden hair and big brown eyes and pink cheeks ; and it stood right up in the showcase and held out its hands winningly .
`` Gee , ai n't it a beauty ! ''
said Tommy admiringly .
`` It looks ` sif it was alive , and it 's as big as a baby .
I must go an ' bring Bessie to see it . ''
Tommy at once hurried away to the shabby little street where what he called `` home '' was .
Tommy 's home was a very homeless-looking sort of place .
It was the smallest , dingiest , most slatternly house on a street noted for its dingy and slatternly houses .
It was occupied by a slatternly mother and a drunken father , as well as by Tommy ; and neither the father nor the mother took much notice of Tommy except to scold or nag him .
So it is hardly to be wondered at if Tommy was the sort of boy who was frowned upon by respectable citizens .
But one little white blossom of pure affection bloomed in the arid desert of Tommy 's existence for all that .
In the preceding fall a new family had come to Arundel and moved into the tiny house next to the Puffers ' .
It was a small , dingy house , just like the others , but before long a great change took place in it .
The new family were thrifty , industrious folks , although they were very poor .
The little house was white-washed , the paling neatly mended , the bit of a yard cleaned of all its rubbish .
Muslin curtains appeared in the windows , and rows of cans , with blossoming plants , adorned the sills .
There were just three people in the Knox family -- a thin little mother , who went out scrubbing and took in washing , a boy of ten , who sold newspapers and ran errands -- and Bessie .
Bessie was eight years old and walked with a crutch , but she was a smart little lassie and kept the house wonderfully neat and tidy while her mother was away .
The very first time she had seen Tommy she had smiled at him sweetly and said , `` Good morning . ''
From that moment Tommy was her devoted slave .
Nobody had ever spoken like that to him before ; nobody had ever smiled so at him .
Tommy would have given his useless little life for Bessie , and thenceforth the time he was not devising mischief he spent in bringing little pleasures into her life .
It was Tommy 's delight to bring that smile to her pale little face and a look of pleasure into her big , patient blue eyes .
The other boys on the street tried to tease Bessie at first and shouted `` Cripple ! ''
after her when she limped out .
But they soon stopped it .
Tommy thrashed them all one after another for it , and Bessie was left in peace .
She would have had a very lonely life if it had not been for Tommy , for she could not play with the other children .
But Tommy was as good as a dozen playmates , and Bessie thought him the best boy in the world .
Tommy , whatever he might be with others , was very careful to be good when he was with Bessie .
He never said a rude word in her hearing , and he treated her as if she were a little princess .
Miss Octavia would have been amazed beyond measure if she had seen how tender and thoughtful and kind and chivalrous that neglected urchin of a Tommy could be when he tried .
Tommy found Bessie sitting by the kitchen window , looking dreamily out of it .
For just a moment Tommy thought uneasily that Bessie was looking very pale and thin this spring .
`` Bessie , come for a walk up to Mr. Blacklock 's store , '' he said eagerly .
`` There is something there I want to show you . ''
`` What is it ? ''
Bessie wanted to know .
But Tommy only winked mysteriously .
`` Ah , I ai n't going to tell you .
But it 's something awful pretty .
Just you wait . ''
Bessie reached for her crutch and the two went up to the store , Tommy carefully suiting his steps to Bessie 's slow ones .
Just before they reached the store he made her shut her eyes and led her to the window .
`` Now -- look ! ''
he commanded dramatically .
Bessie looked and Tommy was rewarded .
She flushed pinkly with delight and clasped her hands in ecstasy .
`` Oh , Tommy , is n't she perfectly beautiful ? ''
she breathed .
`` Oh , she 's the very loveliest dolly I ever saw .
Oh , Tommy ! ''
`` I thought you 'd like her , '' said Tommy exultantly .
`` Do n't you wish you had a doll like that of your very own , Bessie ? ''
Bessie looked almost rebuking , as if Tommy had asked her if she would n't like a golden crown or a queen 's palace .
`` Of course I could never have a dolly like that , '' she said .
`` She must cost an awful lot .
But it 's enough just to look at her .
Tommy , will you bring me up here every day just to look at her ? '' ''
` Course , '' said Tommy .
Bessie talked about the blue-silk doll all the way home and dreamed of her every night .
`` I 'm going to call her Roselle Geraldine , '' she said .
After that she went up to see Roselle Geraldine every day , gazing at her for long moments in silent rapture .
Tommy almost grew jealous of her ; he thought Bessie liked the doll better than she did him .
`` But it do n't matter a bit if she does , '' he thought loyally , crushing down the jealousy .
`` If she likes to like it better than me , it 's all right . ''
Sometimes , though , Tommy felt uneasy .
It was plain to be seen that Bessie had set her heart on that doll .
And what would she do when the doll was sold , as would probably happen soon ?
Tommy thought Bessie would feel awful sad , and he would be responsible for it .
What Tommy feared came to pass .
One afternoon , when they went up to Mr. Blacklock 's store , the doll was not in the window .
`` Oh , '' cried Bessie , bursting into tears , `` she 's gone -- Roselle Geraldine is gone . ''
`` Perhaps she is n't sold , '' said Tommy comfortingly .
`` Maybe they only took her out of the window 'cause the blue silk would fade .
I 'll go in and ask . ''
A minute later Tommy came out looking sober .
`` Yes , she 's sold , Bessie , '' he said .
`` Mr. Blacklock sold her to a lady yesterday .
Do n't cry , Bessie -- maybe they 'll put another in the window ` fore long . ''
`` It wo n't be mine , '' sobbed Bessie .
`` It wo n't be Roselle Geraldine .
It wo n't have a blue silk hat and such cunning brown eyes . ''
Bessie cried quietly all the way home , and Tommy could not comfort her .
He wished he had never shown her the doll in the window .
From that day Bessie drooped , and Tommy watched her in agony .
She grew paler and thinner .
She was too tired to go out walking , and too tired to do the little household tasks she had delighted in .
She never spoke about Roselle Geraldine , but Tommy knew she was fretting about her .
Mrs. Knox could not think what ailed the child .
`` She do n't take a bit of interest in nothing , '' she complained to Mrs. Puffer .
`` She do n't eat enough for a bird .
The doctor , he says there ai n't nothing the matter with her as he can find out , but she 's just pining away . ''
Tommy heard this , and a queer , big lump came up in his throat .
He had a horrible fear that he , Tommy Puffer , was going to cry .
To prevent it he began to whistle loudly .
But the whistle was a failure , very unlike the real Tommy-whistle .
Bessie was sick -- and it was all his fault , Tommy believed .
If he had never taken her to see that hateful , blue-silk doll , she would never have got so fond of it as to be breaking her heart because it was sold .
`` If I was only rich , '' said Tommy miserably , `` I 'd buy her a cartload of dolls , all dressed in blue silk and all with brown eyes .
But I ca n't do nothing . ''
By this time Tommy had reached the paling in front of Miss Octavia 's lawn , and from force of habit he stopped to look over it .
But there was not much to see this time , only the little green rows and circles in the brown , well-weeded beds , and the long curves of dahlia plants , which Miss Octavia had set out a few days before .
All the geraniums were carried in , and the blinds were down .
Tommy knew Miss Octavia was away .
He had seen her depart on the train that morning , and heard her tell a friend that she was going down to Chelton to visit her brother 's folks and would n't be back until the next day .
Tommy was still leaning moodily against the paling when Mrs. Jenkins and Mrs. Reid came by , and they too paused to look at the garden .
`` Dear me , how cold it is ! ''
shivered Mrs. Reid .
`` There 's going to be a hard frost tonight .
Octavia 's flowers will be nipped as sure as anything .
It 's a wonder she 'd stay away from them overnight when her heart 's so set on them . ''
`` Her brother 's wife is sick , '' said Mrs. Jenkins .
`` We have n't had any frost this spring , and I suppose Octavia never thought of such a thing .
She 'll feel awful bad if her flowers get frosted , especially them dahlias .
Octavia sets such store by her dahlias . ''
Mrs. Jenkins and Mrs. Reid moved away , leaving Tommy by the paling .
It was cold -- there was going to be a hard frost -- and Miss Octavia 's plants and flowers would certainly be spoiled .
Tommy thought he ought to be glad , but he was n't .
He was sorry -- not for Miss Octavia , but for her flowers .
Tommy had a queer , passionate love for flowers in his twisted little soul .
It was a shame that they should be nipped -- that all the glory of crimson and purple and gold hidden away in those little green rows and circles should never have a chance to blossom out royally .
Tommy could never have put this thought into words , but it was there in his heart .
He wished he could save the flowers .
And could n't he ?
Newspapers spread over the beds and tied around the dahlias would save them , Tommy knew .
He had seen Miss Octavia doing it other springs .
And he knew there was a big box of newspapers in a little shed in her backyard .
Ned Williams had told him there was , and that the shed was never locked .
Tommy hurried home as quickly as he could and got a ball of twine out of his few treasures .
Then he went back to Miss Octavia 's garden .
The next forenoon Miss Octavia got off the train at the Arundel station with a very grim face .
There had been an unusually severe frost for the time of year .
All along the road Miss Octavia had seen gardens frosted and spoiled .
She knew what she should see when she got to her own -- the dahlia stalks drooping and black and limp , the nasturtiums and balsams and poppies and pansies all withered and ruined .
But she did n't .
Instead she saw every dahlia carefully tied up in a newspaper , and over all the beds newspapers spread out and held neatly in place with pebbles .
Miss Octavia flew into her garden with a radiant face .
Everything was safe -- nothing was spoiled .
But who could have done it ?
Miss Octavia was puzzled .
On one side of her lived Mrs. Kennedy , who had just moved in and , being a total stranger , would not be likely to think of Miss Octavia 's flowers .
On the other lived Miss Matheson , who was a `` shut-in '' and spent all her time on the sofa .
But to Miss Matheson Miss Octavia went .
`` Rachel , do you know who covered my plants up last night ? ''
Miss Matheson nodded .
`` Yes , it was Tommy Puffer .
I saw him working away there with papers and twine .
I thought you 'd told him to do it . ''
`` For the land 's sake ! ''
ejaculated Miss Octavia .
`` Tommy Puffer !
Well , wonders will never cease . ''
Miss Octavia went back to her house feeling rather ashamed of herself when she remembered how she had always treated Tommy Puffer .
`` But there must be some good in the child , or he would n't have done this , '' she said to herself .
`` I 've been real mean , but I 'll make it up to him . ''
Miss Octavia did not see Tommy that day , but when he passed the next morning she ran to the door and called him .
`` Tommy , Tommy Puffer , come in here ! ''
Tommy came reluctantly .
He did n't like Miss Octavia any better than he had , and he did n't know what she wanted of him .
But Miss Octavia soon informed him without loss of words .
`` Tommy , Miss Matheson tells me that it was you who saved my flowers from the frost the other night .
I 'm very much obliged to you indeed .
Whatever made you think of doing it ? ''
`` I hated to see the flowers spoiled , '' muttered Tommy , who was feeling more uncomfortable than he had ever felt in his life .
`` Well , it was real thoughtful of you .
I 'm sorry I 've been so hard on you , Tommy , and I believe now you did n't break my scarlet geranium .
Is there anything I can do for you -- anything you 'd like to have ?
If it 's in reason I 'll get it for you , just to pay my debt . ''
Tommy stared at Miss Octavia with a sudden hopeful inspiration .
`` Oh , Miss Octavia , '' he cried eagerly , `` will you buy a doll and give it to me ? ''
`` Well , for the land 's sake ! ''
ejaculated Miss Octavia , unable to believe her ears .
`` A doll !
What on earth do you want of a doll ? ''
`` It 's for Bessie , '' said Tommy eagerly .
`` You see , it 's this way . ''
Then Tommy told Miss Octavia the whole story .
Miss Octavia listened silently , sometimes nodding her head .
When he had finished she went out of the room and soon returned , bringing with her the very identical doll that had been in Mr. Blacklock 's window .
`` I guess this is the doll , '' she said .
`` I bought it to give to a small niece of mine , but I can get another for her .
You may take this to Bessie . ''
It would be of no use to try to describe Bessie 's joy when Tommy rushed in and put Roselle Geraldine in her arms with a breathless account of the wonderful story .
But from that moment Bessie began to pick up again , and soon she was better than she had ever been and the happiest little lassie in Arundel .
When a week had passed , Miss Octavia again called Tommy in ; Tommy went more willingly this time .
He had begun to like Miss Octavia .
That lady looked him over sharply and somewhat dubiously .
He was certainly very ragged and unkempt .
But Miss Octavia saw what she had never noticed before -- that Tommy 's eyes were bright and frank , that Tommy 's chin was a good chin , and that Tommy 's smile had something very pleasant about it .
`` You 're fond of flowers , are n't you , Tommy ? ''
she asked .
`` You bet , '' was Tommy 's inelegant but heartfelt answer .
`` Well , '' said Miss Octavia slowly , `` I have a brother down at Chelton who is a florist .
He wants a boy of your age to do handy jobs and run errands about his establishment , and he wants one who is fond of flowers and would like to learn the business .
He asked me to recommend him one , and I promised to look out for a suitable boy .
Would you like the place , Tommy ?
And will you promise to be a very good boy and learn to be respectable if I ask my brother to give you a trial and a chance to make something of yourself ? ''
`` Oh , Miss Octavia ! ''
gasped Tommy .
He wondered if he were simply having a beautiful dream .
But it was no dream .
And it was all arranged later on .
No one rejoiced more heartily in Tommy 's success than Bessie .
`` But I 'll miss you dreadfully , Tommy , '' she said wistfully .
`` Oh , I 'll be home every Saturday night , and we 'll have Sunday together , except when I 've got to go to Sunday school .
'Cause Miss Octavia says I must , '' said Tommy comfortingly .
`` And the rest of the time you 'll have Roselle Geraldine . ''
`` Yes , I know , '' said Bessie , giving the blue-silk doll a fond kiss , `` and she 's just lovely .
But she ai n't as nice as you , Tommy , for all . ''
Then was Tommy 's cup of happiness full .
Charlotte 's Ladies Just as soon as dinner was over at the asylum , Charlotte sped away to the gap in the fence -- the northwest corner gap .
There was a gap in the southeast corner , too -- the asylum fence was in a rather poor condition -- but the southeast gap was interesting only after tea , and it was never at any time quite as interesting as the northwest gap .
Charlotte ran as fast as her legs could carry her , for she did not want any of the other orphans to see her .
As a rule , Charlotte liked the company of the other orphans and was a favourite with them .
But , somehow , she did not want them to know about the gaps .
She was sure they would not understand .
Charlotte had discovered the gaps only a week before .
They had not been there in the autumn , but the snowdrifts had lain heavily against the fence all winter , and one spring day when Charlotte was creeping through the shrubbery in the northwest corner in search of the little yellow daffodils that always grew there in spring , she found a delightful space where a board had fallen off , whence she could look out on a bit of woodsy road with a little footpath winding along by the fence under the widespreading boughs of the asylum trees .
Charlotte felt a wild impulse to slip out and run fast and far down that lovely , sunny , tempting , fenceless road .
But that would have been wrong , for it was against the asylum rules , and Charlotte , though she hated most of the asylum rules with all her heart , never disobeyed or broke them .
So she subdued the vagrant longing with a sigh and sat down among the daffodils to peer wistfully out of the gap and feast her eyes on this glimpse of a world where there were no brick walls and prim walks and never-varying rules .
Then , as Charlotte watched , the Pretty Lady with the Blue Eyes came along the footpath .
Charlotte had never seen her before and had n't the slightest idea in the world who she was , but that was what she called her as soon as she saw her .
The lady was so pretty , with lovely blue eyes that were very sad , although somehow as you looked at them you felt that they ought to be laughing , merry eyes instead .
At least Charlotte thought so and wished at once that she knew how to make them laugh .
Besides , the Lady had lovely golden hair and the most beautiful pink cheeks , and Charlotte , who had mouse-coloured hair and any number of freckles , had an unbounded admiration for golden locks and roseleaf complexions .
The Lady was dressed in black , which Charlotte did n't like , principally because the matron of the asylum wore black and Charlotte did n't -- exactly -- like the matron .
When the Pretty Lady with the Blue Eyes had gone by , Charlotte drew a long breath .
`` If I could pick out a mother I 'd pick out one that looked just like her , '' she said .
Nice things sometimes happen close together , even in an orphan asylum , and that very evening Charlotte discovered the southeast gap and found herself peering into the most beautiful garden you could imagine , a garden where daffodils and tulips grew in great ribbon-like beds , and there were hedges of white and purple lilacs , and winding paths under blossoming trees .
It was such a garden as Charlotte had pictured in happy dreams and never expected to see in real life .
And yet here it had been all the time , divided from her only by a high board fence .
`` I would n't have s ` posed there could be such a lovely place so near an orphan asylum , '' mused Charlotte .
`` It 's the very loveliest place I ever saw .
Oh , I do wish I could go and walk in it .
Well , I do declare !
If there is n't a lady in it , too ! ''
Sure enough , there was a lady , helping an unruly young vine to run in the way it should go over a little arbour .
Charlotte instantly named her the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes .
She was not nearly so young or so pretty as the Lady with the Blue Eyes , but she looked very kind and jolly .
I 'd like her for an aunt , reflected Charlotte .
Not for a mother -- oh , no , not for a mother , but for an aunt .
I know she 'd make a splendid aunt .
And , oh , just look at her cat !
Charlotte looked at the cat with all her might and main .
She loved cats , but cats were not allowed in an orphan asylum , although Charlotte sometimes wondered if there were no orphan kittens in the world which would be appropriate for such an institution .
The Tall Lady 's cat was so big and furry , with a splendid tail and elegant stripes .
A Very Handsome Cat , Charlotte called him mentally , seeing the capitals as plainly as if they had been printed out .
Charlotte 's fingers tingled to stroke his glossy coat , but she folded them sternly together .
`` You know you ca n't , '' she said to herself reproachfully , `` so what is the use of wanting to , Charlotte Turner ?
You ought to be thankful just to see the garden and the Very Handsome Cat . ''
Charlotte watched the Tall Lady and the Cat until they went away into a fine , big house further up the garden , then she sighed and went back through the cherry trees to the asylum playground , where the other orphans were playing games .
But , somehow , games had lost their flavour compared with those fascinating gaps .
It did not take Charlotte long to discover that the Pretty Lady always walked past the northwest gap about one o'clock every day and never at any other time -- at least at no other time when Charlotte was free to watch her ; and that the Tall Lady was almost always in her garden at five in the afternoon , accompanied by the Very Handsome Cat , pruning and trimming some of her flowers .
Charlotte never missed being at the gaps at the proper times , if she could possibly manage it , and her heart was full of dreams about her two Ladies .
But the other orphans thought all the fun had gone out of her , and the matron noticed her absent-mindedness and dosed her with sulphur and molasses for it .
Charlotte took the dose meekly , as she took everything else .
It was all part and parcel with being an orphan in an asylum .
`` But if the Pretty Lady with the Blue Eyes was my mother , she would n't make me swallow such dreadful stuff , '' sighed Charlotte .
`` I do n't believe even the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes would -- though perhaps she might , aunts not being quite as good as mothers . ''
`` Do you know , '' said Maggie Brunt , coming up to Charlotte at this moment , `` that Lizzie Parker is going to be adopted ?
A lady is going to adopt her . ''
`` Oh ! ''
cried Charlotte breathlessly .
An adoption was always a wonderful event in the asylum , as well as a somewhat rare one .
`` Oh , how splendid ! ''
`` Yes , is n't it ? ''
said Maggie enviously .
`` She picked out Lizzie because she was pretty and had curls .
I do n't think it is fair . ''
Charlotte sighed .
`` Nobody will ever want to adopt me , because I 've mousy hair and freckles , '' she said .
`` But somebody may want you some day , Maggie .
You have such lovely black hair . ''
`` But it is n't curly , '' said Maggie forlornly .
`` And the matron wo n't let me put it up in curl papers at night .
I just wish I was Lizzie . ''
Charlotte shook her head .
`` I do n't .
I 'd love to be adopted , but I would n't really like to be anybody but myself , even if I am homely .
It 's better to be yourself with mousy hair and freckles than somebody else who is ever so beautiful .
But I do envy Lizzie , though the matron says it is wicked to envy anyone . ''
Envy of the fortunate Lizzie did not long possess Charlotte 's mind , however , for that very day a wonderful thing happened at noon hour by the northwest gap .
Charlotte had always been very careful not to let the Pretty Lady see her , but today , after the Pretty Lady had gone past , Charlotte leaned out of the gap to watch her as far as she could .
And just at that very moment the Pretty Lady looked back ; and there , peering at her from the asylum fence , was a little scrap of a girl , with mouse-coloured hair and big freckles , and the sweetest , brightest , most winsome little face the Pretty Lady had ever seen .
The Pretty Lady smiled right down at Charlotte and for just a moment her eyes looked as Charlotte had always known they ought to look .
Charlotte was feeling rather frightened down in her heart but she smiled bravely back .
`` Are you thinking of running away ? ''
said the Pretty Lady , and , oh , what a sweet voice she had -- sweet and tender , just like a mother 's voice ought to be !
`` No , '' said Charlotte , shaking her head gravely .
`` I should like to run away but it would be of no use , because there is no place to run to . ''
`` Why would you like to run away ? ''
asked the Pretty Lady , still smiling .
`` Do n't you like living here ? ''
Charlotte opened her big eyes very widely .
`` Why , it 's an orphan asylum ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` Nobody could like living in an orphan asylum .
But , of course , orphans should be very thankful to have any place to live in and I am thankful .
I 'd be thankfuller still if the matron would n't make me take sulphur and molasses .
If you had a little girl , would you make her take sulphur and molasses ? ''
`` I did n't when I had a little girl , '' said the Pretty Lady wistfully , and her eyes were sad again .
`` Oh , did you really have a little girl once ? ''
asked Charlotte softly .
`` Yes , and she died , '' said the Pretty Lady in a trembling voice .
`` Oh , I am sorry , '' said Charlotte , more softly still .
`` Did she -- did she have lovely golden hair and pink cheeks like yours ? ''
`` No , '' the Pretty Lady smiled again , though it was a very sad smile .
`` No , she had mouse-coloured hair and freckles . ''
`` Oh !
And were n't you sorry ? ''
`` No , I was glad of it , because it made her look like her father .
I 've always loved little girls with mouse-coloured hair and freckles ever since .
Well , I must hurry along .
I 'm late now , and schools have a dreadful habit of going in sharp on time .
If you should happen to be here tomorrow , I 'm going to stop and ask your name . ''
Of course Charlotte was at the gap the next day and they had a lovely talk .
In a week they were the best of friends .
Charlotte soon found out that she could make the Pretty Lady 's eyes look as they ought to for a little while at least , and she spent all her spare time and lay awake at nights devising speeches to make the Pretty Lady laugh .
Then another wonderful thing happened .
One evening when Charlotte went to the southeast gap , the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes was not in the garden -- at least , Charlotte thought she was n't .
But the Very Handsome Cat was , sitting gravely under a syringa bush and looking quite proud of himself for being a cat .
`` You Very Handsome Cat , '' said Charlotte , `` wo n't you come here and let me stroke you ? ''
The Very Handsome Cat did come , just as if he understood English , and he purred with delight when Charlotte took him in her arms and buried her face in his fur .
Then -- Charlotte thought she would really sink into the ground , for the Tall Lady herself came around a lilac bush and stood before the gap .
`` Please , ma'am , '' stammered Charlotte in an agony of embarrassment , `` I was n't meaning to do any harm to your Very Handsome Cat .
I just wanted to pat him .
I -- I am very fond of cats and they are not allowed in orphan asylums . ''
`` I 've always thought asylums were n't run on proper principles , '' said the Tall Lady briskly .
`` Bless your heart , child , do n't look so scared .
You 're welcome to pat the cat all you like .
Come in and I 'll give you some flowers . ''
`` Thank you , but I am not allowed to go off the grounds , '' said Charlotte firmly , `` and I think I 'd rather not have any flowers because the matron might want to know where I got them , and then she would have this gap closed up .
I live in mortal dread for fear it will be closed anyhow .
It 's very uncomfortable -- living in mortal dread . ''
The Tall Lady laughed a very jolly laugh .
`` Yes , I should think it would be , '' she agreed .
`` I have n't had that experience . ''
Then they had a jolly talk , and every evening after that Charlotte went to the gap and stroked the Very Handsome Cat and chatted to the Tall Lady .
`` Do you live all alone in that big house ? ''
she asked wonderingly one day .
`` All alone , '' said the Tall Lady .
`` Did you always live alone ? ''
`` No .
I had a sister living with me once .
But I do n't want to talk about her .
You 'll oblige me , Charlotte , by not talking about her . ''
`` I wo n't then , '' agreed Charlotte .
`` I can understand why people do n't like to have their sisters talked about sometimes .
Lily Mitchell has a big sister who was sent to jail for stealing .
Of course Lily does n't like to talk about her . ''
The Tall Lady laughed a little bitterly .
`` My sister did n't steal .
She married a man I detested , that 's all . ''
`` Did he drink ? ''
asked Charlotte gravely .
`` The matron 's husband drank and that was why she left him and took to running an orphan asylum .
I think I 'd rather put up with a drunken husband than live in an orphan asylum . ''
`` My sister 's husband did n't drink , '' said the Tall Lady grimly .
`` He was beneath her , that was all .
I told her I 'd never forgive her and I never shall .
He 's dead now -- he died a year after she married him -- and she 's working for her living .
I dare say she does n't find it very pleasant .
She was n't brought up to that .
Here , Charlotte , is a turnover for you .
I made it on purpose for you .
Eat it and tell me if you do n't think I 'm a good cook .
I 'm dying for a compliment .
I never get any now that I 've got old .
It 's a dismal thing to get old and have nobody to love you except a cat , Charlotte . ''
`` I think it is just as bad to be young and have nobody to love you , not even a cat , '' sighed Charlotte , enjoying the turnover , nevertheless .
`` I dare say it is , '' agreed the Tall Lady , looking as if she had been struck by a new and rather startling idea .
* * * * * I like the tall lady with the Black Eyes ever so much , thought Charlotte that night as she lay in bed , but I love the Pretty Lady .
I have more fun with the Tall Lady and the Very Handsome Cat , but I always feel nicer with the Pretty Lady .
Oh , I 'm so glad her little girl had mouse-coloured hair .
Then the most wonderful thing of all happened .
One day a week later the Pretty Lady said , `` Would you like to come and live with me , Charlotte ? ''
Charlotte looked at her .
`` Are you in earnest ? ''
she asked in a whisper .
`` Indeed I am .
I want you for my little girl , and if you 'd like to come , you shall .
I 'm poor , Charlotte , really , I 'm dreadfully poor , but I can make my salary stretch far enough for two , and we 'll love each other enough to cover the thin spots .
Will you come ? ''
`` Well , I should just think I will ! ''
said Charlotte emphatically .
`` Oh , I wish I was sure I 'm not dreaming .
I do love you so much , and it will be so delightful to be your little girl . ''
`` Very well , sweetheart .
I 'll come tomorrow afternoon -- it is Saturday , so I 'll have the whole blessed day off -- and see the matron about it .
Oh , we 'll have lovely times together , dearest .
I only wish I 'd discovered you long ago . ''
Charlotte may have eaten and studied and played and kept rules the rest of that day and part of the next , but , if so , she has no recollection of it .
She went about like a girl in a dream , and the matron concluded that something more than sulphur and molasses was needed and decided to speak to the doctor about her .
But she never did , because a lady came that afternoon and told her she wanted to adopt Charlotte .
Charlotte obeyed the summons to the matron 's room in a tingle of excitement .
But when she went in , she saw only the matron and the Tall Lady with the Black Eyes .
Before Charlotte could look around for the Pretty Lady the matron said , `` Charlotte , this lady , Miss Herbert , wishes to adopt you .
It is a splendid thing for you , and you ought to be a very thankful little girl . ''
Charlotte 's head fairly whirled .
She clasped her hands and the tears brimmed up in her eyes .
`` Oh , I like the Tall Lady , '' she gasped , `` but I love the Pretty Lady and I promised her I 'd be her little girl .
I ca n't break my promise . ''
`` What on earth is the child talking about ? ''
said the mystified matron .
And just then the maid showed in the Pretty Lady .
Charlotte flew to her and flung her arms about her .
`` Oh , tell them I am your little girl ! ''
she begged .
`` Tell them I promised you first .
I do n't want to hurt the Tall Lady 's feelings because I truly do like her so very much .
But I want to be your little girl . ''
The Pretty Lady had given one glance at the Tall Lady and flushed red .
The Tall Lady , on the contrary , had grown very pale .
The matron felt uncomfortable .
Everybody knew that Miss Herbert and Mrs. Bond had n't spoken to each other for years , even if they were sisters and alone in the world except for each other .
Mrs. Bond turned to the matron .
`` I have come to ask permission to adopt this little girl , '' she said .
`` Oh , I 'm very sorry , '' stammered the matron , `` but Miss Herbert has just asked for her , and I have consented . ''
Charlotte gave a great gulp of disappointment , but the Pretty Lady suddenly wheeled around to face the Tall Lady , with quivering lips and tearful eyes .
`` Do n't take her from me , Alma , '' she pleaded humbly .
`` She -- she is so like my own baby and I 'm so lonely .
Any other child will suit you as well . ''
`` Not at all , '' said the Tall Lady brusquely .
`` Not at all , Anna .
No other child will suit me at all .
And may I ask what you intend to keep her on ?
I know your salary is barely enough for yourself . ''
`` That is my concern , '' said the Pretty Lady a little proudly .
`` Humph ! ''
The Tall Lady shrugged her shoulders .
`` Just as independent as ever , Anna , I see .
Well , child , what do you say ?
Which of us will you come with ?
Remember , I have the cat on my side , and Anna ca n't make half as good turnovers as I can .
Remember all this , Charlotte . ''
`` Oh , I -- I like you so much , '' stammered Charlotte , `` and I wish I could live with you both .
But since I ca n't , I must go with the Pretty Lady , because I promised , and because I loved her first . ''
`` And best ? ''
queried the Tall Lady .
`` And best , '' admitted Charlotte , bound to be truthful , even at the risk of hurting the Tall Lady 's feelings .
`` But I do like you , too -- next best .
And you really do n't need me as much as she does , for you have your Very Handsome Cat and she has n't anything . ''
`` A cat no longer satisfies the aching void in my soul , '' said the Tall Lady stubbornly .
`` Nothing will satisfy it but a little girl with mouse-coloured hair and freckles .
No , Anna , I 've got to have Charlotte .
But I think that with her usual astuteness , she has already solved the problem for us by saying she 'd like to live with us both .
Why ca n't she ?
You just come back home and we 'll let bygones be bygones .
We both have something to forgive , but I was an obstinate old fool and I 've known it for years , though I never confessed it to anybody but the cat . ''
The Pretty Lady softened , trembled , smiled .
She went right up to the Tall Lady and put her arms about her neck .
`` Oh , I 've wanted so much to be friends with you again , '' she sobbed .
`` But I thought you would never relent -- and -- and -- I 've been so lonely -- '' `` There , there , '' whispered the Tall Lady , `` do n't cry under the matron 's eye .
Wait till we get home .
I may have some crying to do myself then .
Charlotte , go and get your hat and come right over with us .
We can sign the necessary papers later on , but we must have you right off .
The cat is waiting for you on the back porch , and there is a turnover cooling on the pantry window that is just your size . ''
`` I am so happy , '' remarked Charlotte , `` that I feel like crying myself . ''
Christmas at Red Butte `` Of course Santa Claus will come , '' said Jimmy Martin confidently .
Jimmy was ten , and at ten it is easy to be confident .
`` Why , he 's got to come because it is Christmas Eve , and he always has come .
You know that , twins . ''
Yes , the twins knew it and , cheered by Jimmy 's superior wisdom , their doubts passed away .
There had been one terrible moment when Theodora had sighed and told them they must n't be too much disappointed if Santa Claus did not come this year because the crops had been poor , and he might n't have had enough presents to go around .
`` That does n't make any difference to Santa Claus , '' scoffed Jimmy .
`` You know as well as I do , Theodora Prentice , that Santa Claus is rich whether the crops fail or not .
They failed three years ago , before Father died , but Santa Claus came all the same .
Prob ` bly you do n't remember it , twins , 'cause you were too little , but I do .
Of course he 'll come , so do n't you worry a mite .
And he 'll bring my skates and your dolls .
He knows we 're expecting them , Theodora , 'cause we wrote him a letter last week , and threw it up the chimney .
And there 'll be candy and nuts , of course , and Mother 's gone to town to buy a turkey .
I tell you we 're going to have a ripping Christmas . ''
`` Well , do n't use such slangy words about it , Jimmy-boy , '' sighed Theodora .
She could n't bear to dampen their hopes any further , and perhaps Aunt Elizabeth might manage it if the colt sold well .
But Theodora had her painful doubts , and she sighed again as she looked out of the window far down the trail that wound across the prairie , red-lighted by the declining sun of the short wintry afternoon .
`` Do people always sigh like that when they get to be sixteen ? ''
asked Jimmy curiously .
`` You did n't sigh like that when you were only fifteen , Theodora .
I wish you would n't .
It makes me feel funny -- and it 's not a nice kind of funniness either . ''
`` It 's a bad habit I 've got into lately , '' said Theodora , trying to laugh .
`` Old folks are dull sometimes , you know , Jimmy-boy . ''
`` Sixteen is awful old , is n't it ? ''
said Jimmy reflectively .
`` I 'll tell you what I 'm going to do when I 'm sixteen , Theodora .
I 'm going to pay off the mortgage , and buy mother a silk dress , and a piano for the twins .
Wo n't that be elegant ?
I 'll be able to do that 'cause I 'm a man .
Of course if I was only a girl I could n't . ''
`` I hope you 'll be a good kind brave man and a real help to your mother , '' said Theodora softly , sitting down before the cosy fire and lifting the fat little twins into her lap .
`` Oh , I 'll be good to her , never you fear , '' assured Jimmy , squatting comfortably down on the little fur rug before the stove -- the skin of the coyote his father had killed four years ago .
`` I believe in being good to your mother when you 've only got the one .
Now tell us a story , Theodora -- a real jolly story , you know , with lots of fighting in it .
Only please do n't kill anybody .
I like to hear about fighting , but I like to have all the people come out alive . ''
Theodora laughed , and began a story about the Riel Rebellion of ' 85 -- a story which had the double merit of being true and exciting at the same time .
It was quite dark when she finished , and the twins were nodding , but Jimmy 's eyes were wide open and sparkling .
`` That was great , '' he said , drawing a long breath .
`` Tell us another . ''
`` No , it 's bedtime for you all , '' said Theodora firmly .
`` One story at a time is my rule , you know . ''
`` But I want to sit up till Mother comes home , '' objected Jimmy .
`` You ca n't .
She may be very late , for she would have to wait to see Mr. Porter .
Besides , you do n't know what time Santa Claus might come -- if he comes at all .
If he were to drive along and see you children up instead of being sound asleep in bed , he might go right on and never call at all . ''
This argument was too much for Jimmy .
`` All right , we 'll go .
But we have to hang up our stockings first .
Twins , get yours . ''
The twins toddled off in great excitement , and brought back their Sunday stockings , which Jimmy proceeded to hang along the edge of the mantel shelf .
This done , they all trooped obediently off to bed .
Theodora gave another sigh , and seated herself at the window , where she could watch the moonlit prairie for Mrs. Martin 's homecoming and knit at the same time .
I am afraid that you will think from all the sighing Theodora was doing that she was a very melancholy and despondent young lady .
You could n't think anything more unlike the real Theodora .
She was the jolliest , bravest girl of sixteen in all Saskatchewan , as her shining brown eyes and rosy , dimpled cheeks would have told you ; and her sighs were not on her own account , but simply for fear the children were going to be disappointed .
She knew that they would be almost heartbroken if Santa Claus did not come , and that this would hurt the patient hardworking little mother more than all else .
Five years before this , Theodora had come to live with Uncle George and Aunt Elizabeth in the little log house at Red Butte .
Her own mother had just died , and Theodora had only her big brother Donald left , and Donald had Klondike fever .
The Martins were poor , but they had gladly made room for their little niece , and Theodora had lived there ever since , her aunt 's right-hand girl and the beloved playmate of the children .
They had been very happy until Uncle George 's death two years before this Christmas Eve ; but since then there had been hard times in the little log house , and though Mrs. Martin and Theodora did their best , it was a woefully hard task to make both ends meet , especially this year when their crops had been poor .
Theodora and her aunt had made every sacrifice possible for the children 's sake , and at least Jimmy and the twins had not felt the pinch very severely yet .
At seven Mrs. Martins bells jingled at the door and Theodora flew out .
`` Go right in and get warm , Auntie , '' she said briskly .
`` I 'll take Ned away and unharness him . ''
`` It 's a bitterly cold night , '' said Mrs. Martin wearily .
There was a note of discouragement in her voice that struck dismay to Theodora 's heart .
`` I 'm afraid it means no Christmas for the children tomorrow , '' she thought sadly , as she led Ned away to the stable .
When she returned to the kitchen Mrs. Martin was sitting by the fire , her face in her chilled hand , sobbing convulsively .
`` Auntie -- oh , Auntie , do n't ! ''
exclaimed Theodora impulsively .
It was such a rare thing to see her plucky , resolute little aunt in tears .
`` You 're cold and tired -- I 'll have a nice cup of tea for you in a trice . ''
`` No , it is n't that , '' said Mrs. Martin brokenly `` It was seeing those stockings hanging there .
Theodora , I could n't get a thing for the children -- not a single thing .
Mr. Porter would only give forty dollars for the colt , and when all the bills were paid there was barely enough left for such necessaries as we must have .
I suppose I ought to feel thankful I could get those .
But the thought of the children 's disappointment tomorrow is more than I can bear .
It would have been better to have told them long ago , but I kept building on getting more for the colt .
Well , it 's weak and foolish to give way like this .
We 'd better both take a cup of tea and go to bed .
It will save fuel . ''
When Theodora went up to her little room her face was very thoughtful .
She took a small box from her table and carried it to the window .
In it was a very pretty little gold locket hung on a narrow blue ribbon .
Theodora held it tenderly in her fingers , and looked out over the moonlit prairie with a very sober face .
Could she give up her dear locket -- the locket Donald had given her just before he started for the Klondike ?
She had never thought she could do such a thing .
It was almost the only thing she had to remind her of Donald -- handsome , merry , impulsive , warmhearted Donald , who had gone away four years ago with a smile on his bonny face and splendid hope in his heart .
`` Here 's a locket for you , Gift o ' God , '' he had said gaily -- he had such a dear loving habit of calling her by the beautiful meaning of her name .
A lump came into Theodora 's throat as she remembered it .
`` I could n't afford a chain too , but when I come back I 'll bring you a rope of Klondike nuggets for it . ''
Then he had gone away .
For two years letters had come from him regularly .
Then he wrote that he had joined a prospecting party to a remote wilderness .
After that was silence , deepening into anguish of suspense that finally ended in hopelessness .
A rumour came that Donald Prentice was dead .
None had returned from the expedition he had joined .
Theodora had long ago given up all hope of ever seeing Donald again .
Hence her locket was doubly dear to her .
But Aunt Elizabeth had always been so good and loving and kind to her .
Could she not make the sacrifice for her sake ?
Yes , she could and would .
Theodora flung up her head with a gesture that meant decision .
She took out of the locket the bits of hair -- her mother 's and Donald 's -- which it contained -LRB- perhaps a tear or two fell as she did so -RRB- and then hastily donned her warmest cap and wraps .
It was only three miles to Spencer ; she could easily walk it in an hour and , as it was Christmas Eve , the shops would be open late .
She muse walk , for Ned could not be taken out again , and the mare 's foot was sore .
Besides , Aunt Elizabeth must not know until it was done .
As stealthily as if she were bound on some nefarious errand , Theodora slipped downstairs and out of the house .
The next minute she was hurrying along the trail in the moonlight .
The great dazzling prairie was around her , the mystery and splendour of the northern night all about her .
It was very calm and cold , but Theodora walked so briskly that she kept warm .
The trail from Red Butte to Spencer was a lonely one .
Mr. Lurgan 's house , halfway to town , was the only dwelling on it .
When Theodora reached Spencer she made her way at once to the only jewellery store the little town contained .
Mr. Benson , its owner , had been a friend of her uncle 's , and Theodora felt sure that he would buy her locket .
Nevertheless her heart beat quickly , and her breath came and went uncomfortably fast as she went in .
Suppose he would n't buy it .
Then there would be no Christmas for the children at Red Butte .
`` Good evening , Miss Theodora , '' said Mr. Benson briskly .
`` What can I do for you ? ''
`` I 'm afraid I 'm not a very welcome sort of customer , Mr. Benson , '' said Theodora , with an uncertain smile .
`` I want to sell , not buy .
Could you -- will you buy this locket ? ''
Mr. Benson pursed up his lips , took up the locket , and examined it .
`` Well , I do n't often buy second-hand stuff , '' he said , after some reflection , `` but I do n't mind obliging you , Miss Theodora .
I 'll give you four dollars for this trinket . ''
Theodora knew the locket had cost a great deal more than that , but four dollars would get what she wanted , and she dared not ask for more .
In a few minutes the locket was in Mr. Benson 's possession , and Theodora , with four crisp new bills in her purse , was hurrying to the toy store .
Half an hour later she was on her way back to Red Butte , with as many parcels as she could carry -- Jimmy 's skates , two lovely dolls for the twins , packages of nuts and candy , and a nice plump turkey .
Theodora beguiled her lonely tramp by picturing the children 's joy in the morning .
About a quarter of a mile past Mr. Lurgan 's house the trail curved suddenly about a bluff of poplars .
As Theodora rounded the turn she halted in amazement .
Almost at her feet the body of a man was lying across the road .
He was clad in a big fur coat , and had a fur cap pulled well down over his forehead and ears .
Almost all of him that could be seen was a full bushy beard .
Theodora had no idea who he was , or where he had come from .
But she realized that he was unconscious , and that he would speedily freeze to death if help were not brought .
The footprints of a horse galloping across the prairie suggested a fall and a runaway , but Theodora did not waste time in speculation .
She ran back at full speed to Mr. Lurgan 's , and roused the household .
In a few minutes Mr. Lurgan and his son had hitched a horse to a wood-sleigh , and hurried down the trail to the unfortunate man .
Theodora , knowing that her assistance was not needed , and that she ought to get home as quickly as possible , went on her way as soon as she had seen the stranger in safe keeping .
When she reached the little log house she crept in , cautiously put the children 's gifts in their stockings , placed the turkey on the table where Aunt Elizabeth would see it the first thing in the morning , and then slipped off to bed , a very weary but very happy girl .
The joy that reigned in the little log house the next day more than repaid Theodora for her sacrifice .
`` Whoopee , did n't I tell you that Santa Claus would come all right ! ''
shouted the delighted Jimmy .
`` Oh , what splendid skates ! ''
The twins hugged their dolls in silent rapture , but Aunt Elizabeth 's face was the best of all .
Then the dinner had to be prepared , and everybody had a hand in that .
Just as Theodora , after a grave peep into the oven , had announced that the turkey was done , a sleigh dashed around the house .
Theodora flew to answer the knock at the door , and there stood Mr. Lurgan and a big , bewhiskered , fur-coated fellow whom Theodora recognized as the stranger she had found on the trail .
But -- was he a stranger ?
There was something oddly familiar in those merry brown eyes .
Theodora felt herself growing dizzy .
`` Donald ! ''
she gasped .
`` Oh , Donald ! ''
And then she was in the big fellow 's arms , laughing and crying at the same time .
Donald it was indeed .
And then followed half an hour during which everybody talked at once , and the turkey would have been burned to a crisp had it not been for the presence of mind of Mr. Lurgan who , being the least excited of them all , took it out of the oven , and set it on the back of the stove .
`` To think that it was you last night , and that I never dreamed it , '' exclaimed Theodora .
`` Oh , Donald , if I had n't gone to town ! ''
`` I 'd have frozen to death , I 'm afraid , '' said Donald soberly .
`` I got into Spencer on the last train last night .
I felt that I must come right out -- I could n't wait till morning .
But there was n't a team to be got for love or money -- it was Christmas Eve and all the livery rigs were out .
So I came on horseback .
Just by that bluff something frightened my horse , and he shied violently .
I was half asleep and thinking of my little sister , and I went off like a shot .
I suppose I struck my head against a tree .
Anyway , I knew nothing more until I came to in Mr. Lurgan 's kitchen .
I was n't much hurt -- feel none the worse of it except for a sore head and shoulder .
But , oh , Gift o ' God , how you have grown !
I ca n't realize that you are the little sister I left four years ago .
I suppose you have been thinking I was dead ? ''
`` Yes , and , oh , Donald , where have you been ? ''
`` Well , I went way up north with a prospecting party .
We had a tough time the first year , I can tell you , and some of us never came back .
We were n't in a country where post offices were lying round loose either , you see .
Then at last , just as we were about giving up in despair , we struck it rich .
I 've brought a snug little pile home with me , and things are going to look up in this log house , Gift o ' God .
There 'll be no more worrying for you dear people over mortgages . ''
`` I 'm so glad -- for Auntie 's sake , '' said Theodora , with shining eyes .
`` But , oh , Donald , it 's best of all just to have you back .
I 'm so perfectly happy that I do n't know what to do or say . ''
`` Well , I think you might have dinner , '' said Jimmy in an injured tone .
`` The turkey 's getting stone cold , and I 'm most starving .
I just ca n't stand it another minute . ''
So , with a laugh , they all sat down to the table and ate the merriest Christmas dinner the little log house had ever known .
How We Went to the Wedding `` If it were to clear up I would n't know how to behave , it would seem so unnatural , '' said Kate .
`` Do you , by any chance , remember what the sun looks like , Phil ? ''
`` Does the sun ever shine in Saskatchewan anyhow ? ''
I asked with assumed sarcasm , just to make Kate 's big , bonny black eyes flash .
They did flash ; but Kate laughed immediately after , as she sat down on a chair in front of me and cradled her long , thin , spirited dark face in her palms .
`` We have more sunny weather in Saskatchewan than in all the rest of Canada put together , in an average year , '' she said , clicking her strong , white teeth and snapping her eyes at me .
`` But I ca n't blame you for feeling sceptical about it , Phil .
If I went to a new country and it rained every day -- all day -- all night -- after I got there for three whole weeks I 'd think things not lawful to be uttered about the climate too .
So , little cousin , I forgive you .
Remember that ` into each life some rain must fall , some days must be dark and dreary . '
Oh , if you 'd only come to visit me last fall .
We had such a bee-yew-tiful September last year .
We were drowned in sunshine .
This fall we 're drowned in water .
Old settlers tell of a similar visitation in ' 72 , though they claim even that was n't quite as bad as this . ''
I was sitting rather disconsolately by an upper window of Uncle Kenneth Morrison 's log house at Arrow Creek .
Below was what in dry weather -- so , at least , I was told -- was merely a pretty , grassy little valley , but which was now a considerable creek of muddy yellow water , rising daily .
Beyond was a cheerless prospect of sodden prairie and dripping `` bluff . ''
`` It would be a golden , mellow land , with purple hazes over the bluffs , in a normal fall , '' assured Kate .
`` Even now if the sun were just to shine out for a day and a good ` chinook ' blow you 'd see a surprising change .
I feel like chanting continually that old rhyme I learned in the first primer , ` Rain , rain , go away , Come again some other day : -- some other day next summer -- Phil and Katie want to play . '
Philippa , dear girl , do n't look so dismal .
It 's bound to clear up sometime . ''
`` I wish the ` sometime ' would come soon , then , '' I said , rather grumpily .
`` You know it has n't really rained for three days , '' protested Kate .
`` It 's been damp and horrid and threatening , but it has n't rained .
I defy you to say that it has actually rained . ''
`` When it 's so wet underfoot that you ca n't stir out without rubber boots it might as well be wet overhead too , '' I said , still grumpily .
`` I believe you 're homesick , girl , '' said Kate anxiously .
`` No , I 'm not , '' I answered , laughing , and feeling ashamed of my ungraciousness .
`` Nobody could be homesick with such a jolly good fellow as you around , Kate .
It 's only that this weather is getting on my nerves a bit .
I 'm fit for treasons , stratagems , and spoils .
If your chinook does n't come soon , Kitty , I 'll do something quite desperate . ''
`` I feel that way myself , '' admitted Kate .
`` Real reckless , Phil .
Anyhow , let 's put on our despised rubber boots and sally out for a wade . ''
`` Here 's Jim Nash coming on horseback down the trail , '' I said .
`` Let 's wait and see if he 's got the mail . ''
We hurried down , Kate humming , `` Somewhere the sun is shining , '' solely , I believe , because she knew it aggravated me .
At any other time I should probably have thrown a pillow at her , but just now I was too eager to see if Jim Nash had brought any mail .
I had come from Ontario , the first of September , to visit Uncle Kenneth Morrison 's family .
I had been looking forward to the trip for several years .
My cousin Kate and I had always corresponded since they had `` gone west '' ten years before ; and Kate , who revelled in the western life , had sung the praises of her adopted land rapturously and constantly .
It was quite a joke on her that , when I did finally come to visit her , I should have struck the wettest autumn ever recorded in the history of the west .
A wet September in Saskatchewan is no joke , however .
The country was almost `` flooded out . ''
The trails soon became nearly impassable .
All our plans for drives and picnics and inter-neighbour visiting -- at that time a neighbour meant a man who lived at least six miles away -- had to be given up .
Yet I was not lonesome , and I enjoyed my visit in spite of everything .
Kate was a host in herself .
She was twenty-eight years old -- eight years my senior -- but the difference in our ages had never been any barrier to our friendship .
She was a jolly , companionable , philosophical soul , with a jest for every situation , and a merry solution for every perplexity .
The only fault I had to find with her was her tendency to make parodies .
Kate 's parodies were perfectly awful and always got on my nerves .
She was dreadfully ashamed of the way the Saskatchewan weather was behaving after all her boasting .
She was thin at the best of times , but now she grew positively scraggy with the worry of it .
I am afraid I took an unholy delight in teasing her , and abused the western weather even more than was necessary .
Jim Nash -- the lank youth who was hired to look after the place during Uncle Kenneth 's absence on a prolonged threshing expedition -- had brought some mail .
Kate 's share was a letter , postmarked Bothwell , a rising little town about one hundred and twenty miles from Arrow Creek .
Kate had several friends there , and one of our plans had been to visit Bothwell and spend a week with them .
We had meant to drive , of course , since there was no other way of getting there , and equally of course the plan had been abandoned because of the wet weather .
`` Mother , '' exclaimed Kate , `` Mary Taylor is going to be married in a fortnight 's time !
She wants Phil and me to go up to Bothwell for the wedding . ''
`` What a pity you ca n't go , '' remarked Aunt Jennie placidly .
Aunt Jennie was always a placid little soul , with a most enviable knack of taking everything easy .
Nothing ever worried her greatly , and when she had decided that a thing was inevitable it did not worry her at all .
`` But I am going , '' cried Kate .
`` I will go -- I must go .
I positively can not let Mary Taylor -- my own beloved Molly -- go and perpetrate matrimony without my being on hand to see it .
Yes , I 'm going -- and if Phil has a spark of the old Blair pioneer spirit in her , she 'll go too . ''
`` Of course I 'll go if you go , '' I said .
Aunt Jennie did not think we were in earnest , so she merely laughed at first , and said , `` How do you propose to go ?
Fly -- or swim ? ''
`` We 'll drive , as usual , '' said Kate calmly .
`` I 'd feel more at home in that way of locomotion .
We 'll borrow Jim Nash 's father 's democrat , and take the ponies .
We 'll put on old clothes , raincoats , rubber caps and boots , and we 'll start tomorrow .
In an ordinary time we could easily do it in six days or less , but this fall we 'll probably need ten or twelve . ''
`` You do n't really mean to go , Kate ! ''
said Aunt Jennie , beginning to perceive that Kate did mean it .
`` I do , '' said Kate , in a convincing tone .
Aunt Jennie felt a little worried -- as much as she could feel worried over anything -- and she tried her best to dissuade Kate , although she plainly did not have much hope of doing so , having had enough experience with her determined daughter to realize that when Kate said she was going to do a thing she did it .
It was rather funny to listen to the ensuing dialogue .
`` Kate , you ca n't do it .
It 's a crazy idea !
The road is one hundred and twenty miles long . ''
`` I 've driven it twice , Mother . ''
`` Yes , but not in such a wet year .
The trail is impassable in places . ''
`` Oh , there are always plenty of dry spots to be found if you only look hard for them . ''
`` But you do n't know where to look for them , and goodness knows what you 'll get into while you are looking . ''
`` We 'll call at the M.P. barracks and get an Indian to guide us .
Indians always know the dry spots . ''
`` The stage driver has decided not to make another trip till the October frosts set in . ''
`` But he always has such a heavy load .
It will be quite different with us , you must remember .
We 'll travel light -- just our provisions and a valise containing our wedding garments . ''
`` What will you do if you get mired twenty miles from a human being ? ''
`` But we wo n't .
I 'm a good driver and I have n't nerves -- but I have nerve .
Besides , you forget that we 'll have an Indian guide with us . ''
`` There was a company of Hudson Bay freighters ambushed and killed along that very trail by Blackfoot Indians in 1839 , '' said Aunt Jennie dolefully .
`` Fifty years ago !
Their ghosts must have ceased to haunt it by this time , '' said Kate flippantly .
`` Well , you 'll get wet through and catch your deaths of cold , '' protested Aunt Jennie .
`` No fear of it .
We 'll be cased in rubber .
And we 'll borrow a good tight tent from the M.P.s. Besides , I 'm sure it 's not going to rain much more .
I know the signs . ''
`` At least wait for a day or two until you 're sure that it has cleared up , '' implored Aunt Jennie .
`` Which being interpreted means , ` Wait for a day or two , because then your father may be home and he 'll squelch your mad expedition , ' '' said Kate , with a sly glance at me .
`` No , no , my mother , your wiles are in vain .
We 'll hit the trail tomorrow at sunrise .
So just be good , darling , and help us pack up some provisions .
I 'll send Jim for his father 's democrat . ''
Aunt Jennie resigned herself to the inevitable and betook herself to the pantry with the air of a woman who washes her hands of the consequences .
I flew upstairs to pack some finery .
I was wild with delight over the proposed outing .
I did not realize what it actually meant , and I had perfect confidence in Kate , who was an expert driver , an experienced camper out , and an excellent manager .
If I could have seen what was ahead of us I would certainly not have been quite so jubilant and reckless , but I would have gone all the same .
I would not miss the laughter-provoking memories of that trip out of my life for anything .
I have always been glad I went .
* * * * * We left at sunrise the next morning ; there was a sunrise that morning , for a wonder .
The sun came up in a pinky-saffron sky and promised us a fine day .
Aunt Jennie bade us goodbye and , estimable woman that she was , did not trouble us with advice or forebodings .
Mr. Nash had sent over his `` democrat , '' a light wagon with springs ; and Kate 's `` shaganappies , '' Tom and Jerry -- native ponies , the toughest horse flesh to be found in the world -- were hitched to it .
Kate and I were properly accoutred for our trip and looked -- but I try to forget how we looked !
The memory is not flattering .
We drove off in the gayest of spirits .
Our difficulties began at the start , for we had to drive a mile before we could find a place to ford the creek .
Beyond that , however , we had a passable trail for three miles to the little outpost of the Mounted Police , where five or six men were stationed on detachment duty .
`` Sergeant Baker is a friend of mine , '' said Kate .
`` He 'll be only too glad to lend me all we require . ''
The sergeant was a friend of Kate 's , but he looked at her as if he thought she was crazy when she told him where we were going .
`` You 'd better take a canoe instead of a team , '' he said sarcastically .
`` I 've a good notion to arrest you both as horse thieves and prevent you from going on such a mad expedition . ''
`` You know nothing short of arrest would stop me , '' said Kate , nodding at him with laughing eyes , `` and you really wo n't go to such an extreme , I know .
So please be nice , even if it comes hard , and lend us some things .
I 've come a-borrying . ''
`` I wo n't lend you a thing , '' declared the sergeant .
`` I wo n't aid and abet you in any such freak as this .
Go home now , like a good girl . ''
`` I 'm not going home , '' said Kate .
`` I 'm not a ` good girl ' -- I 'm a wicked old maid , and I 'm going to Bothwell .
If you wo n't lend us a tent we 'll go without -- and sleep in the open -- and our deaths will lie forever at your door .
I 'll come back and haunt you , if you do n't lend me a tent .
I 'll camp on your very threshold and you wo n't be able to go out of your door without falling over my spook . ''
`` I 've more fear of being accountable for your death if I do let you go , '' said Sergeant Baker dubiously .
`` However , I see that nothing but physical force will prevent you .
What do you want ? ''
`` I want , '' said Kate , `` a cavalry tent , a sheet-iron camp stove , and a good Indian guide -- old Peter Crow for choice .
He 's such a respectable-looking old fellow , and his wife often works for us . ''
The sergeant gave us the tent and stove , and sent a man down to the Reserve for Peter Crow .
Moreover , he vindicated his title of friend by making us take a dozen prairie chickens and a large ham -- besides any quantity of advice .
We did n't want the advice but we hugely welcomed the ham .
Presently our guide appeared -- quite a spruce old Indian , as Indians go .
I had never been able to shake off my childhood conviction that an Indian was a fearsome creature , hopelessly addicted to scalping knives and tomahawks , and I secretly felt quite horrified at the idea of two defenceless females starting out on a lonely prairie trail with an Indian for guide .
Even old Peter Crow 's meek appearance did not quite reassure me ; but I kept my qualms to myself , for I knew Kate would only laugh at me .
It was ten when we finally got away from the M.P. outpost .
Sergeant Baker bade us goodbye in a tone which seemed to intimate that he never expected to see either of us again .
What with his dismal predictions and my secret horror of Indians , I was beginning to feel anything but jubilant over our expedition .
Kate , however , was as blithe and buoyant as usual .
She knew no fear , being one of those enviable folk who can because they think they can .
One hundred and twenty miles of half-flooded prairie trail -- camping out at night in the solitude of the Great Lone Land -- rain -- muskegs -- Indian guides -- nothing had any terror for my dauntless cousin .
For the next three hours , however , we got on beautifully .
The trail was fair , though somewhat greasy ; the sun shone , though with a somewhat watery gleam , through the mists ; and Peter Crow , coiled up on the folded tent behind the seat , slept soundly and snored mellifluously .
That snore reassured me greatly .
I had never thought of Indians as snoring .
Surely one who did could n't be dreaded greatly .
We stopped at one o'clock and had a cold lunch , sitting in our wagon , while Peter Crow wakened up and watered the ponies .
We did not get on so well in the afternoon .
The trail descended into low-lying ground where travelling was very difficult .
I had to admit old Peter Crow was quite invaluable .
He knew , as Kate had foretold , `` all the dry spots '' -- that is to say , spots less wet than others .
But , even so , we had to make so many detours that by sunset we were little more than six miles distant from our noon halting place .
`` We 'd better set camp now , before it gets any darker , '' said Kate .
`` There 's a capital spot over there , by that bluff of dead poplar .
The ground seems pretty dry too .
Peter , cut us a set of tent poles and kindle a fire . ''
`` Want my dollar first , '' said old Peter stolidly .
We had agreed to pay him a dollar a day for the trip , but none of the money was to be paid until we got to Bothwell .
Kate told him this .
But all the reply she got was a stolid , `` Want dollar .
No make fire without dollar . ''
We were getting cold and it was getting dark , so finally Kate , under the law of necessity , paid him his dollar .
Then he carried out our orders at his own sweet leisure .
In course of time he got a fire lighted , and while we cooked supper he set up the tent and prepared our beds , by cutting piles of brush and covering them with rugs .
Kate and I had a hilarious time cooking that supper .
It was my first experience of camping out and , as I had become pretty well convinced that Peter Crow was not the typical Indian of old romance , I enjoyed it all hugely .
But we were both very tired , and as soon as we had finished eating we betook ourselves to our tent and found our brush beds much more comfortable than I had expected .
Old Peter coiled up on his blanket outside by the fire , and the great silence of a windless prairie enwrapped us .
In a few minutes we were sound asleep and never wakened until seven o'clock .
* * * * * When we arose and lifted the flap of the tent we saw a peculiar sight .
The little elevation on which we had pitched our camp seemed to be an island in a vast sea of white mist , dotted here and there with other islands .
On every hand to the far horizon stretched that strange , phantasmal ocean , and a hazy sun looked over the shifting billows .
I had never seen a western mist before and I thought it extremely beautiful ; but Kate , to whom it was no novelty , was more cumbered with breakfast cares .
`` I 'm ravenous , '' she said , as she bustled about among our stores .
`` Camping out always does give one such an appetite .
Are n't you hungry , Phil ? ''
`` Comfortably so , '' I admitted .
`` But where are our ponies ?
And where is Peter Crow ? ''
`` Probably the ponies have strayed away looking for pea vines .
They love and adore pea vines , '' said Kate , stirring up the fire from under its blanket of grey ashes .
`` And Peter Crow has gone to look for them , good old fellow .
When you do get a conscientious Indian there is no better guide in the world , but they are rare .
Now , Philippa-girl , just pry out the sergeant 's ham and shave a few slices off it for our breakfast .
Some savoury fried ham always goes well on the prairie . ''
I went for the ham but could not find it .
A thorough search among our effects revealed it not .
`` Kate , I ca n't find the ham , '' I called out .
`` It must have fallen out somewhere on the trail . ''
Kate ceased wrestling with the fire and came to help in the search for the missing delicacy .
`` It could n't have fallen out , '' she said incredulously .
`` That is impossible .
The tent was fastened securely over everything .
Nothing could have jolted out . ''
`` Well , then , where is the ham ? ''
I said .
That question was unanswerable , as Kate discovered after another thorough search .
The ham was gone -- that much was certain .
`` I believe Peter Crow has levanted with the ham , '' I said decidedly .
`` I do n't believe Peter Crow could be so dishonest , '' said Kate rather shortly .
`` His wife has worked for us for years , and she 's as honest as the sunlight . ''
`` Honesty is n't catching , '' I remarked , but I said nothing more just then , for Kate 's black eyes were snapping .
`` Anyway , we ca n't have ham for breakfast , '' she said , twitching out the frying pan rather viciously .
`` We 'll have to put up with canned chicken -- if the cans have n't disappeared too . ''
They had n't , and we soon produced a very tolerable breakfast .
But neither of us had much appetite .
`` Do you suppose Peter Crow has taken the horses as well as the ham ? ''
I asked .
`` No , '' gloomily responded Kate , who had evidently been compelled by the logic of hard facts to believe in Peter 's guilt , `` he would hardly dare to do that , because he could n't dispose of them without being found out .
They 've probably strayed away on their own account when Peter decamped .
As soon as this mist lifts I 'll have a look for them .
They ca n't have gone far . ''
We were spared this trouble , however , for when we were washing up the dishes the ponies returned of their own accord .
Kate caught them and harnessed them .
`` Are we going on ? ''
I asked mildly .
`` Of course we 're going on , '' said Kate , her good humour entirely restored .
`` Do you suppose I 'm going to be turned from my purpose by the defection of a miserable old Indian ?
Oh , wait till he comes round in the winter , begging . ''
`` Will he come ? ''
I asked .
`` Will he ?
Yes , my dear , he will -- with a smooth , plausible story to account for his desertion and a bland denial of ever having seen our ham .
I shall know how to deal with him then , the old scamp . ''
`` When you do get a conscientious Indian there 's no better guide in the world , but they are rare , '' I remarked with a far-away look .
Kate laughed .
`` Do n't rub it in , Phil .
Come , help me to break camp .
We 'll have to work harder and hustle for ourselves , that 's all . ''
`` But is it safe to go on without a guide ? ''
I inquired dubiously .
I had n't felt very safe with Peter Crow , but I felt still more unsafe without him .
`` Safe !
Of course , it 's safe -- perfectly safe .
I know the trail , and we 'll just have to drive around the wet places .
It would have been easier with Peter , and we 'd have had less work to do , but we 'll get along well enough without him .
I do n't think I 'd have bothered with him at all , only I wanted to set Mother 's mind at rest .
She 'll never know he is n't with us till the trip is over , so that is all right .
We 're going to have a glorious day .
But , oh , for our lost ham !
` The Ham That Was Never Eaten . '
There 's a subject for a poem , Phil .
You write one when we get back to civilization .
Methinks I can sniff the savoury odour of that lost ham on all the prairie breezes . ''
`` Of all sad words of tongue or pen , The saddest are these -- it might have been , '' I quoted , beginning to wash the dishes .
`` Saw ye my wee ham , saw ye my ain ham , Saw ye my pork ham down on yon lea ?
Crossed it the prairie last night in the darkness Borne by an old and unprincipled Cree ? ''
sang Kate , loosening the tent ropes .
Altogether , we got a great deal more fun out of that ham than if we had eaten it .
As Kate had predicted , the day was glorious .
The mists rolled away and the sun shone brightly .
We drove all day without stopping , save for dinner -- when the lost ham figured largely in our conversation -- of course .
We said so many witty things about it -- at least , we thought them witty -- that we laughed continuously through the whole meal , which we ate with prodigious appetite .
But with all our driving we were not getting on very fast .
The country was exceedingly swampy and we had to make innumerable detours . ''
` The longest way round is the shortest way to Bothwell , ' '' said Kate , when we drove five miles out of our way to avoid a muskeg .
By evening we had driven fully twenty-five miles , but we were only ten miles nearer Bothwell than when we had broken camp in the morning .
`` We 'll have to camp soon , '' sighed Kate .
`` I believe around this bluff will be a good place .
Oh , Phil , I 'm tired -- dead tired !
My very thoughts are tired .
I ca n't even think anything funny about the ham .
And yet we 've got to set up the tent ourselves , and attend to the horses ; and we 'll have to scrape some of the mud off this beautiful vehicle . ''
`` We can leave that till the morning , '' I suggested .
`` No , it will be too hard and dry then .
Here we are -- and here are two tepees of Indians also ! ''
There they were , right around the bluff .
The inmates were standing in a group before them , looking at us as composedly as if we were not at all an unusual sight .
`` I 'm going to stay here anyhow , '' said Kate doggedly .
`` Oh , do n't , '' I said in alarm .
`` They 're such a villainous-looking lot -- so dirty -- and they 've got so little clothing on .
I would n't sleep a wink near them .
Look at that awful old squaw with only one eye .
They 'd steal everything we 've got left , Kate .
Remember the ham -- oh , pray remember the fate of our beautiful ham . ''
`` I shall never forget that ham , '' said Kate wearily , `` but , Phil , we ca n't drive far enough to be out of their reach if they really want to steal our provisions .
But I do n't believe they will .
I believe they have plenty of food -- Indians in tepees mostly have .
The men hunt , you know .
Their looks are probably the worst of them .
Anyhow , you ca n't judge Indians by appearances .
Peter Crow looked respectable -- and he was a whited sepulchre .
Now , these Indians look as bad as Indians can look -- so they may turn out to be angels in disguise . ''
`` Very much disguised , certainly , '' I acquiesced satirically .
`` They seem to me to belong to the class of a neighbour of ours down east .
Her family is always in rags , because she says , ' a hole is an accident , a patch is a disgrace , ' Set camp here if you like , Kate .
But I 'll not sleep a wink with such neighbours . ''
I cheerfully ate my words later on .
Never were appearances more deceptive than in the case of those Stoneys .
There is an old saying that many a kind heart beats behind a ragged coat .
The Indians had no coats for their hearts to beat behind -- nothing but shirts -- some of them had n't even shirts !
But the shirts were certainly ragged enough , and their hearts were kind .
Those Indians were gentlemen .
They came forward and unhitched our horses , fed , and watered them ; they pitched our tent , and built us a fire , and cut brush for our beds .
Kate and I had simply nothing to do except sit on our rugs and tell them what we wanted done .
They would have cooked our supper for us if we had allowed it .
But , tired as we were , we drew the line at that .
Their hearts were pure gold , but their hands !
No , Kate and I dragged ourselves up and cooked our own suppers .
And while we ate it , those Indians fell to and cleaned all the mud off our democrat for us .
To crown all -- it is almost unbelievable but it is true , I solemnly avow -- they would n't take a cent of payment for it all , urge them as we might and did .
`` Well , '' said Kate , as we curled up on our brush beds that night , `` there certainly is a special Providence for unprotected females .
I 'd forgive Peter Crow for deserting us for the sake of those Indians , if he had n't stolen our lovely ham into the bargain .
That was altogether unpardonable . ''
In the morning the Indians broke camp for us and harnessed our shaganappies .
We drove off , waving our hands to them , the delightful creatures .
We never saw any of them again .
I fear their kind is scarce , but as long as I live I shall remember those Stoneys with gratitude .
We got on fairly well that third day , and made about fifteen miles before dinner time .
We ate three of the sergeant 's prairie chickens for dinner , and enjoyed them .
`` But only think how delicious the ham would have been , '' said Kate .
Our real troubles began that afternoon .
We had not been driving long when the trail swooped down suddenly into a broad depression -- a swamp , so full of mud-holes that there did n't seem to be anything but mud-holes .
We pulled through six of them -- but in the seventh we stuck , hard and fast .
Pull as our ponies could and did , they could not pull us out .
`` What are we to do ? ''
I said , becoming horribly frightened all at once .
It seemed to me that our predicament was a dreadful one .
`` Keep cool , '' said Kate .
She calmly took off her shoes and stockings , tucked up her skirt , and waded to the horses ' heads .
`` Ca n't I do anything ? ''
I implored .
`` Yes , take the whip and spare it not , '' said Kate .
`` I 'll encourage them here with sundry tugs and inspiriting words .
You urge them behind with a good lambasting . ''
Accordingly we encouraged and urged , tugged and lambasted , with a right good will , but all to no effect .
Our ponies did their best , but they could not pull the democrat out of that slough .
`` Oh , what -- '' I began , and then I stopped .
I resolved that I would not ask that question again in that tone in that scrape .
I would be cheerful and courageous like Kate -- splendid Kate !
`` I shall have to unhitch them , tie one of them to that stump , and ride off on the other for help , '' said Kate .
`` Where to ? ''
I asked .
`` Till I find it , '' grinned Kate , who seemed to think the whole disaster a capital joke .
`` I may have to go clean back to the tepees -- and further .
For that matter , I do n't believe there were any tepees .
Those Indians were too good to be true -- they were phantoms of delight -- such stuff as dreams are made of .
But even if they were real they wo n't be there now -- they 'll have folded their tents like the Arabs and as silently stolen away .
But I 'll find help somewhere . ''
`` I ca n't stay here alone .
You may be gone for hours , '' I cried , forgetting all my resolutions of courage and cheerfulness in an access of panic .
`` Then ride the other pony and come with me , '' suggested Kate .
`` I ca n't ride bareback , '' I moaned .
`` Then you 'll have to stay here , '' said Kate decidedly .
`` There 's nothing to hurt you , Phil .
Sit in the wagon and keep dry .
Eat something if you get hungry .
I may not be very long . ''
I realized that there was nothing else to do ; and , rather ashamed of my panic , I resigned myself to the inevitable and saw Kate off with a smile of encouragement .
Then I waited .
I was tired and frightened -- horribly frightened .
I sat there and imagined scores of gruesome possibilities .
It was no use telling myself to be brave .
I could n't be brave .
I never was in such a blue funk before or since .
Suppose Kate got lost -- suppose she could n't find me again -- suppose something happened to her -- suppose she could n't get help -- suppose it came on night and I there all alone -- suppose Indians -- not gentlemanly Stoneys or even Peter Crows , but genuine , old-fashioned Indians -- should come along -- suppose it began to pour rain !
It did begin to rain , the only one of my suppositions which came true .
I hoisted an umbrella and sat there grimly , in that horseless wagon in the mud-hole .
* * * * * Many a time since have I laughed over the memory of the appearance I must have presented sitting in that mud-hole , but there was nothing in the least funny about it at the time .
The worst feature of it all was the uncertainty .
I could have waited patiently enough and conquered my fears if I had known that Kate would find help and return within a reasonable time -- at least before dark .
But everything was doubtful .
I was not composed of the stuff out of which heroines are fashioned and I devoutly wished we had never left Arrow Creek .
Shouts -- calls -- laughter -- Kate 's dear voice in an encouraging cry from the hill behind me !
`` Halloo , honey !
Hold the fort a few minutes longer .
Here we are .
Bless her , has n't she been a brick to stay here all alone like this -- and a tenderfoot at that ? ''
I could have cried with joy .
But I saw that there were men with Kate -- two men -- white men -- and I laughed instead .
I had not been brave -- I had been an arrant little coward , but I vowed that nobody , not even Kate , should suspect it .
Later on Kate told me how she had fared in her search for assistance .
`` When I left you , Phil , I felt much more anxious than I wanted to let you see .
I had no idea where to go .
I knew there were no houses along our trail and I might have to go clean back to the tepees -- fifteen miles bareback .
I did n't dare try any other trail , for I knew nothing of them and was n't sure that there were even tepees on them .
But when I had gone about six miles I saw a welcome sight -- nothing less than a spiral of blue , homely-looking smoke curling up from the prairie far off to my right .
I decided to turn off and investigate .
I rode two miles and finally I came to a little log shack .
There was a bee-yew-tiful big horse in a corral close by .
My heart jumped with joy .
But suppose the inmates of the shack were half-breeds !
You ca n't realize how relieved I felt when the door opened and two white men came out .
In a few minutes everything was explained .
They knew who I was and what I wanted , and I knew that they were Mr. Lonsdale and Mr. Hopkins , owners of a big ranch over by Deer Run .
They were ` shacking out ' to put up some hay and Mrs. Hopkins was keeping house for them .
She wanted me to stop and have a cup of tea right off , but I thought of you , Phil , and declined .
As soon as they heard of our predicament those lovely men got their two biggest horses and came right with me . ''
It was not long before our democrat was on solid ground once more , and then our rescuers insisted that we go back to the shack with them for the night .
Accordingly we drove back to the shack , attended by our two gallant deliverers on white horses .
Mrs. Hopkins was waiting for us , a trim , dark-haired little lady in a very pretty gown , which she had donned in our honour .
Kate and I felt like perfect tramps beside her in our muddy old raiment , with our hair dressed by dead reckoning -- for we had not included a mirror in our baggage .
There was a mirror in the shack , however -- small but good -- and we quickly made ourselves tidy at least , and Kate even went to the length of curling her bangs -- bangs were in style then and Kate had long , thick ones -- using the stem of a broken pipe of Mr. Hopkins 's for a curler .
I was so tired that my vanity was completely crushed out -- for the time being -- and I simply pinned my bangs back .
Later on , when I discovered that Mr. Lonsdale was really the younger son of an English earl , I wished I had curled them , but it was too late then .
He did n't look in the least like a scion of aristocracy .
He wore a cowboy rig and had a scrubby beard of a week 's growth .
But he was very jolly and played the violin beautifully .
After tea -- and a lovely tea it was , although , as Kate remarked to me later , there was no ham -- we had an impromptu concert .
Mr. Lonsdale played the violin ; Mrs. Hopkins , who sang , was a graduate of a musical conservatory ; Mr. Hopkins gave a comic recitation and did a Cree war-dance ; Kate gave a spirited account of our adventures since leaving home and mother ; and I described -- with trimmings -- how I felt sitting alone in the democrat in a mud-hole , in a pouring rain on a vast prairie .
Mrs. Hopkins , Kate , and I slept in the one bed the shack boasted , screened off from public view by a calico curtain .
Mr. Lonsdale reposed in his accustomed bunk by the stove , but poor Mr. Hopkins had to sleep on the floor .
He must have been glad Kate and I stayed only one night .
* * * * * The fourth morning found us blithely hitting the trail in renewed confidence and spirits .
We parted from our kind friends in the shack with mutual regret .
Mr. Hopkins gave us a haunch of jumping deer and Mrs. Hopkins gave us a box of home-made cookies .
Mr. Lonsdale at first thought he could n't give us anything , for he said all he had with him was his pipe and his fiddle ; but later on he said he felt so badly to see us go without any token of his good will that he felt constrained to ask us to accept a piece of rope that he had tied his outfit together with .
The fourth day we got on so nicely that it was quite monotonous .
The sun shone , the chinook blew , our ponies trotted over the trail gallantly .
Kate and I sang , told stories , and laughed immoderately over everything .
Even a poor joke seems to have a subtle flavour on the prairie .
For the first time I began to think Saskatchewan beautiful , with those far-reaching parklike meadows dotted with the white-stemmed poplars , the distant bluffs bannered with the airiest of purple hazes , and the little blue lakes that sparkled and shimmered in the sunlight on every hand .
The only thing approaching an adventure that day happened in the afternoon when we reached a creek which had to be crossed .
`` We must investigate , '' said Kate decidedly .
`` It would never do to risk getting mired here , for this country is unsettled and we must be twenty miles from another human being . ''
Kate again removed her shoes and stockings and puddled about that creek until she found a safe fording place .
I am afraid I must admit that I laughed most heartlessly at the spectacle she presented while so employed .
`` Oh , for a camera , Kate ! ''
I said , between spasms .
Kate grinned .
`` I do n't care what I look like , '' she said , `` but I feel wretchedly unpleasant .
This water is simply swarming with wigglers . ''
`` Goodness , what are they ? ''
I exclaimed .
`` Oh , they 're tiny little things like leeches , '' responded Kate .
`` I believe they develop into mosquitoes later on , bad ` cess to them .
What Mr. Nash would call my pedal extremities are simply being devoured by the brutes .
Ugh !
I believe the bottom of this creek is all soft mud .
We may have to drive -- no , as I 'm a living , wiggler-haunted human being , here 's firm bottom .
Hurrah , Phil , we 're all right ! ''
In a few minutes we were past the creek and bowling merrily on our way .
We had a beautiful camping ground that night -- a fairylike little slope of white poplars with a blue lake at its foot .
When the sun went down a milk-white mist hung over the prairie , with a young moon kissing it .
We boiled some slices of our jumping deer and ate them in the open around a cheery camp-fire .
Then we sought our humble couches , where we slept the sleep of just people who had been driving over the prairie all day .
Once in the night I wakened .
It was very dark .
The unearthly stillness of a great prairie was all around me .
In that vast silence Kate 's soft breathing at my side seemed an intrusion of sound where no sound should be .
`` Philippa Blair , can you believe it 's yourself ? ''
I said mentally .
`` Here you are , lying on a brush bed on a western prairie in the middle of the night , at least twenty miles from any human being except another frail creature of your own sex .
Yet you 're not even frightened .
You are very comfy and composed , and you 're going right to sleep again . ''
And right to sleep again I went .
* * * * * Our fifth day began ominously .
We had made an early start and had driven about six miles when the calamity occurred .
Kate turned a corner too sharply , to avoid a big boulder ; there was a heart-breaking sound .
`` The tongue of the wagon is broken , '' cried Kate in dismay .
All too surely it was .
We looked at each other blankly .
`` What can we do ? ''
I said .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know , '' said Kate helplessly .
When Kate felt helpless I thought things must be desperate indeed .
We got out and investigated the damage .
`` It 's not a clean break , '' said Kate .
`` It 's a long , slanting break .
If we had a piece of rope I believe I could fix it . ''
`` Mr. Lonsdale 's piece of rope ! ''
I cried .
`` The very thing , '' said Kate , brightening up .
The rope was found and we set to work .
With the aid of some willow withes and that providential rope we contrived to splice the tongue together in some shape .
Although the trail was good we made only twelve miles the rest of the day , so slowly did we have to drive .
Besides , we were continually expecting that tongue to give way again , and the strain was bad for our nerves .
When we came at sunset to the junction of the Black River trail with ours , Kate resolutely turned the shaganappies down it .
`` We 'll go and spend the night with the Brewsters , '' she said .
`` They live only ten miles down this trail .
I went to school in Regina with Hannah Brewster , and though I have n't seen her for ten years I know she 'll be glad to see us .
She 's a lovely person , and her husband is a very nice man .
I visited them once after they were married . ''
We soon arrived at the Brewster place .
It was a trim , white-washed little log house in a grove of poplars .
But all the blinds were down and we discovered the door was locked .
Evidently the Brewsters were not at home .
`` Never mind , '' said Kate cheerfully , `` we 'll light a fire outside and cook our supper and then we 'll spend the night in the barn .
A bed of prairie hay will be just the thing . ''
But the barn was locked too .
It was now dark and our plight was rather desperate .
`` I 'm going to get into the house if I have to break a window , '' said Kate resolutely .
`` Hannah would want us to do that .
She 'd never get over it , if she heard we came to her house and could n't get in . ''
Fortunately we did not have to go to the length of breaking into Hannah 's house .
The kitchen window went up quite easily .
We turned the shaganappies loose to forage for themselves , grass and water being abundant .
Then we climbed in at the window , lighted our lantern , and found ourselves in a very snug little kitchen .
Opening off it on one side was a trim , nicely furnished parlour and on the other a well-stocked pantry .
`` We 'll light the fire in the stove in a jiffy and have a real good supper , '' said Kate exultantly .
`` Here 's cold roast beef -- and preserves and cookies and cheese and butter . ''
Before long we had supper ready and we did full justice to the absent Hannah 's excellent cheer .
After all , it was quite nice to sit down once more to a well-appointed table and eat in civilized fashion .
Then we washed up all the dishes and made everything snug and tidy .
I shall never be sufficiently thankful that we did so .
Kate piloted me upstairs to the spare room .
`` This is fixed up much nicer than it was when I was here before , '' she said , looking around .
`` Of course , Hannah and Ted were just starting out then and they had to be economical .
They must have prospered , to be able to afford such furniture as this .
Well , turn in , Phil .
Wo n't it be rather jolly to sleep between sheets once more ? ''
We slept long and soundly until half-past eight the next morning ; and dear knows if we would have wakened then of our own accord .
But I heard somebody saying in a very harsh , gruff voice , `` Here , you two , wake up !
I want to know what this means . ''
We two did wake up , promptly and effectually .
I never wakened up so thoroughly in my life before .
Standing in our room were three people , one of them a man .
He was a big , grey-haired man with a bushy black beard and an angry scowl .
Beside him was a woman -- a tall , thin , angular personage with red hair and an indescribable bonnet .
She looked even crosser and more amazed than the man , if that were possible .
In the background was another woman -- a tiny old lady who must have been at least eighty .
She was , in spite of her tininess , a very striking-looking personage ; she was dressed all in black , and had snow-white hair , a dead-white face , and snapping , vivid , coal-black eyes .
She looked as amazed as the other two , but she did n't look cross .
I knew something must be wrong -- fearfully wrong -- but I did n't know what .
Even in my confusion , I found time to think that if that disagreeable-looking red-haired woman was Hannah Brewster , Kate must have had a queer taste in school friends .
Then the man said , more gruffly than ever , `` Come now .
Who are you and what business have you here ? ''
Kate raised herself on one elbow .
She looked very wild .
I heard the old black-and-white lady in the background chuckle to herself .
`` Is n't this Theodore Brewster 's place ? ''
gasped Kate .
`` No , '' said the big woman , speaking for the first time .
`` This place belongs to us .
We bought it from the Brewsters in the spring .
They moved over to Black River Forks .
Our name is Chapman . ''
Poor Kate fell back on the pillow , quite overcome .
`` I -- I beg your pardon , '' she said .
`` I -- I thought the Brewsters lived here .
Mrs. Brewster is a friend of mine .
My cousin and I are on our way to Bothwell and we called here to spend the night with Hannah .
When we found everyone away we just came in and made ourselves at home . ''
`` A likely story , '' said the red woman .
`` We were n't born yesterday , '' said the man .
Madam Black-and-White did n't say anything , but when the other two had made their pretty speeches she doubled up in a silent convulsion of mirth , shaking her head from side to side and beating the air with her hands .
If they had been nice to us , Kate would probably have gone on feeling confused and ashamed .
But when they were so disagreeable she quickly regained her self-possession .
She sat up again and said in her haughtiest voice , `` I do not know when you were born , or where , but it must have been somewhere where very peculiar manners were taught .
If you will have the decency to leave our room -- this room -- until we can get up and dress we will not transgress upon your hospitality '' -LRB- Kate put a most satirical emphasis on that word -RRB- `` any longer .
And we shall pay you amply for the food we have eaten and the night 's lodging we have taken . ''
The black-and-white apparition went through the motion of clapping her hands , but not a sound did she make .
Whether he was cowed by Kate 's tone , or appeased by the prospect of payment , I know not , but Mr. Chapman spoke more civilly .
`` Well , that 's fair .
If you pay up it 's all right . ''
`` They shall do no such thing as pay you , '' said Madam Black-and-White in a surprisingly clear , resolute , authoritative voice .
`` If you have n't any shame for yourself , Robert Chapman , you 've got a mother-in-law who can be ashamed for you .
No strangers shall be charged for food or lodging in any house where Mrs. Matilda Pitman lives .
Remember that I 've come down in the world , but I have n't forgot all decency for all that .
I knew you was a skinflint when Amelia married you and you 've made her as bad as yourself .
But I 'm boss here yet .
Here , you , Robert Chapman , take yourself out of here and let those girls get dressed .
And you , Amelia , go downstairs and cook a breakfast for them . ''
I never , in all my life , saw anything like the abject meekness with which those two big people obeyed that mite .
They went , and stood not upon the order of their going .
As the door closed behind them , Mrs. Matilda Pitman laughed silently , and rocked from side to side in her merriment .
`` Ai n't it funny ? ''
she said .
`` I mostly lets them run the length of their tether but sometimes I has to pull them up , and then I does it with a jerk .
Now , you can take your time about dressing , my dears , and I 'll go down and keep them in order , the mean scalawags . ''
When we descended the stairs we found a smoking-hot breakfast on the table .
Mr. Chapman was nowhere to be seen , and Mrs. Chapman was cutting bread with a sulky air .
Mrs. Matilda Pitman was sitting in an armchair , knitting .
She still wore her bonnet and her triumphant expression .
`` Set right in , dears , and make a good breakfast , '' she said .
`` We are not hungry , '' said Kate , almost pleadingly .
`` I do n't think we can eat anything .
And it 's time we were on the trail .
Please excuse us and let us go on . ''
Mrs. Matilda Pitman shook a knitting needle playfully at Kate .
`` Sit down and take your breakfast , '' she commanded .
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman commands you .
Everybody obeys Mrs. Matilda Pitman -- even Robert and Amelia .
You must obey her too . ''
We did obey her .
We sat down and , such was the influence of her mesmeric eyes , we ate a tolerable breakfast .
The obedient Amelia never spoke ; Mrs. Matilda Pitman did not speak either , but she knitted furiously and chuckled .
When we had finished Mrs. Matilda Pitman rolled up her knitting .
`` Now , you can go if you want to , '' she said , `` but you do n't have to go .
You can stay here as long as you like , and I 'll make them cook your meals for you . ''
I never saw Kate so thoroughly cowed .
`` Thank you , '' she said faintly .
`` You are very kind , but we must go . ''
`` Well , then , '' said Mrs. Matilda Pitman , throwing open the door , `` your team is ready for you .
I made Robert catch your ponies and harness them .
And I made him fix that broken tongue properly .
I enjoy making Robert do things .
It 's almost the only sport I have left .
I 'm eighty and most things have lost their flavour , except bossing Robert . ''
Our democrat and ponies were outside the door , but Robert was nowhere to be seen ; in fact , we never saw him again .
`` I do wish , '' said Kate , plucking up what little spirit she had left , `` that you would let us -- ah -- uh '' -- Kate quailed before Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's eye -- `` recompense you for our entertainment . ''
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman said before -- and meant it -- that she does n't take pay for entertaining strangers , nor let other people where she lives do it , much as their meanness would like to do it . ''
We got away .
The sulky Amelia had vanished , and there was nobody to see us off except Mrs. Matilda Pitman .
`` Do n't forget to call the next time you come this way , '' she said cheerfully , waving her knitting at us .
`` I hope you 'll get safe to Bothwell .
If I was ten years younger I vow I 'd pack a grip and go along with you .
I like your spunk .
Most of the girls nowadays is such timid , skeery critters .
When I was a girl I was n't afraid of nothing or nobody . ''
We said and did nothing until we had driven out of sight and earshot .
Then Kate laid down the reins and laughed until the tears came .
`` Oh , Phil , Phil , will you ever forget this adventure ? ''
she gasped .
`` I shall never forget Mrs. Matilda Pitman , '' I said emphatically .
We had no further adventures that day .
Robert Chapman had fixed the tongue so well -- probably under Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's watchful eyes -- that we could drive as fast as we liked ; and we made good progress .
But when we pitched camp that night Kate scanned the sky with an anxious expression .
`` I do n't like the look of it , '' she said .
`` I 'm afraid we 're going to have a bad day tomorrow . ''
* * * * * We had .
When we awakened in the morning rain was pouring down .
This in itself might not have prevented us from travelling , but the state of the trail did .
It had been raining the greater part of the night and the trail was little more than a ditch of slimy , greasy , sticky mud .
If we could have stayed in the tent the whole time it would not have been quite so bad .
But we had to go out twice to take the ponies to the nearest pond and water them ; moreover , we had to collect pea vines for them , which was not an agreeable occupation in a pouring rain .
The day was very cold too , but fortunately there was plenty of dead poplar right by our camp .
We kept a good fire on in the camp stove and were quite dry and comfortable as long as we stayed inside .
Even when we had to go out we did not get very wet , as we were well protected .
But it was a long dreary day .
Finally when the dark came down and supper was over Kate grew quite desperate .
`` Let 's have a game of checkers , '' she suggested .
`` Where is your checkerboard ? ''
I asked .
`` Oh , I 'll soon furnish that , '' said Kate .
She cut out a square of brown paper , in which a biscuit box had been wrapped , and marked squares off on it with a pencil .
Then she produced some red and white high-bush cranberries for men .
A cranberry split in two was a king .
We played nine games of checkers by the light of our smoky lantern .
Our enjoyment of the game was heightened by the fact that it had ceased raining .
Nevertheless , when morning came the trail was so drenched that it was impossible to travel on it .
`` We must wait till noon , '' said Kate .
`` That trail wo n't be dry enough to travel on for a week , '' I said disconsolately .
`` My dear ; the chinook is blowing up , '' said Kate .
`` You do n't know how quickly a trail dries in a chinook .
It 's like magic . ''
I did not believe a chinook or anything else could dry up that trail by noon sufficiently for us to travel on .
But it did .
As Kate said , it seemed like magic .
By one o'clock we were on our way again , the chinook blowing merrily against our faces .
It was a wind that blew straight from the heart of the wilderness and had in it all the potent lure of the wild .
The yellow prairie laughed and glistened in the sun .
We made twenty-five miles that afternoon and , as we were again fortunate enough to find a bluff of dead poplar near which to camp , we built a royal camp-fire which sent its flaming light far and wide over the dark prairie .
We were in jubilant spirits .
If the next day were fine and nothing dreadful happened to us , we would reach Bothwell before night .
But our ill luck was not yet at an end .
The next morning was beautiful .
The sun shone warm and bright ; the chinook blew balmily and alluringly ; the trail stretched before us dry and level .
But we sat moodily before our tent , not even having sufficient heart to play checkers .
Tom had gone lame -- so lame that there was no use in thinking of trying to travel with him .
Kate could not tell what was the matter .
`` There is no injury that I can see , '' she said .
`` He must have sprained his foot somehow . ''
Wait we did , with all the patience we could command .
But the day was long and wearisome , and at night Tom 's foot did not seem a bit better .
We went to bed gloomily , but joy came with the morning .
Tom 's foot was so much improved that Kate decided we could go on , though we would have to drive slowly .
`` There 's no chance of making Bothwell today , '' she said , `` but at least we shall be getting a little nearer to it . ''
`` I do n't believe there is such a place as Bothwell , or any other town , '' I said pessimistically .
`` There 's nothing in the world but prairie , and we 'll go on driving over it forever , like a couple of female Wandering Jews .
It seems years since we left Arrow Creek . ''
`` Well , we 've had lots of fun out of it all , you know , '' said Kate .
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman alone was worth it .
She will be an amusing memory all our lives .
Are you sorry you came ? ''
`` No , I 'm not , '' I concluded , after honest , soul-searching reflection .
`` No , I 'm glad , Kate .
But I think we were crazy to attempt it , as Sergeant Baker said .
Think of all the might-have-beens . ''
`` Nothing else will happen , '' said Kate .
`` I feel in my bones that our troubles are over . ''
Kate 's bones proved true prophets .
Nevertheless , that day was a weary one .
There was no scenery .
We had got into a barren , lakeless , treeless district where the world was one monotonous expanse of grey-brown prairie .
We just crawled along .
Kate had her hands full driving those ponies .
Jerry was in capital fettle and could n't understand why he might n't tear ahead at full speed .
He was so much disgusted over being compelled to walk that he was very fractious .
Poor Tom limped patiently along .
But by night his lameness had quite disappeared , and although we were still a good twenty-five miles from Bothwell we could see it quite distinctly far ahead on the level prairie . ''
'T is a sight for sore eyes , is n't it ? ''
said Kate , as we pitched camp .
There is little more to be told .
Next day at noon we rattled through the main and only street of Bothwell .
Curious sights are frequent in prairie towns , so we did not attract much attention .
When we drew up before Mr. Taylor 's house Mary Taylor flew out and embraced Kate publicly .
`` You darling !
I knew you 'd get here if anyone could .
They telegraphed us you were on the way .
You 're a brick -- two bricks . ''
`` No , I 'm not a brick at all , Miss Taylor , '' I confessed frankly .
`` I 've been an arrant coward and a doubting Thomas and a wet blanket all through the expedition .
But Kate is a brick and a genius and an all-round , jolly good fellow . ''
`` Mary , '' said Kate in a tragic whisper , `` have -- you -- any -- ham -- in -- the -- house ? ''
Jessamine When the vegetable-man knocked , Jessamine went to the door wearily .
She felt quite well acquainted with him .
He had been coming all the spring , and his cheery greeting always left a pleasant afterglow behind him .
But it was not the vegetable-man after all -- at least , not the right one .
This one was considerably younger .
He was tall and sunburned , with a ruddy , smiling face , and keen , pleasant blue eyes ; and he had a spray of honeysuckle pinned on his coat .
`` Want any garden stuff this morning ? ''
Jessamine shook her head .
`` We always get ours from Mr. Bell .
This is his day to come . ''
`` Well , I guess you wo n't see Mr. Bell for a spell .
He fell off a loft out at his place yesterday and broke his leg .
I 'm his nephew , and I 'm going to fill his place till he gets ` round again . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry -- for Mr. Bell , I mean .
Have you any green peas ? ''
`` Yes , heaps of them .
I 'll bring them in .
Anything else ? ''
`` Not today , '' said Jessamine , with a wistful glance at the honeysuckle .
Mr. Bell , junior , saw it .
In an instant the honeysuckle was unpinned and handed to her .
`` If you like posies , you 're welcome to this .
I guess you 're fond of flowers , '' he added , as he noted the flash of delight that passed over her pale face .
`` Yes , indeed ; they put me so in mind of home -- of the country .
Oh , how sweet this is ! ''
`` You 're country-bred , then ?
Been in the city long ? ''
`` Since last fall .
I was born and brought up in the country .
I wish I was back .
I ca n't get over being homesick .
This honeysuckle seems to bring it right back .
We had honeysuckles around our porch at home . ''
`` You do n't like the city , then ? ''
`` Oh , no .
I sometimes feel as if I should smother here .
I shall never feel at home , I am afraid . ''
`` Where did you live before you came here ? ''
`` Up at Middleton .
It was an old-fashioned place , but pretty -- our house was covered with vines , and there were trees all about it , and great green fields beyond .
But I do n't know what makes me tell you this .
I forgot I was talking to a stranger . ''
`` Pretty little woman , '' soliloquized Andrew Bell , as he drove away .
`` She does n't look happy , though .
I suppose she 's married some city chap and has to live in town .
I guess it do n't agree with her .
Her eyes had a real hungry look in them over that honeysuckle .
She seemed near about crying when she talked of the country . ''
Jessamine felt more like crying than ever when she went back to her work .
Her head ached and she was very tired .
The tiny kitchen was hot and stifling .
How she longed for the great , roomy kitchen in her old home , with its spotless floors and floods of sunshine streaming in through the maples outside .
There was room to live and breathe there , and from the door one looked out over green wind-rippled meadows , under a glorious arch of pure blue sky , away to the purple hills in the distance .
* * * * * Jessamine Stacy had always lived in the country .
When her sister died and the old home had to go , Jessamine could only accept the shelter offered by her brother , John Stacy , who did business in the city .
Of her stylish sister-in-law Jessamine was absolutely in awe .
At first Mrs. John was by no means pleased at the necessity of taking a country sister into her family circle .
But one day , when the servant girl took a tantrum and left , Mrs. John found it very convenient to have in the house a person who could step into Eliza 's place as promptly and efficiently as Jessamine could .
Indeed , she found it so convenient that Eliza never had a successor .
Jessamine found herself in the position of maid-of-all-work and kitchen drudge for board and clothes .
She never complained , but she grew thinner and paler as the winter went by .
She had worked as hard on the farm , but it was the close confinement and weary routine that told on her .
Mrs. John was exacting and querulous .
John was absorbed in his business worries and had no time to waste on his sister .
Now , when the summer had come , her homesickness was almost unbearable .
The next day Mr. Bell came he handed her a big bunch of sweet-brier roses .
`` Here you are , '' he said heartily .
`` I took the liberty to bring you these today , seeing you 're so fond of posies .
The country roads are pink with them now .
Why do n't you get your husband to bring you out for a drive some day ?
You 'd be as welcome as a lark at my farm . ''
`` I will when he comes along , but I have n't seen him yet . ''
Mr. Bell gave a prolonged whistle .
`` Excuse me .
I thought you were Mrs. Something-or-other for sure .
Are n't you mistress here ? ''
`` Oh , no .
My brother 's wife is the mistress here .
I 'm only Jessamine . ''
She laughed again .
She was holding the roses against her face , and her eyes sparkled over them roguishly .
The vegetable-man looked at her admiringly .
`` You 're a country rose yourself , miss , and you ought to be blooming out in the fields , instead of wilting in here . ''
`` I wish I was .
Thank you so much for the roses , Mr. -- Mr. -- '' `` Bell -- Andrew Bell , that 's my name .
I live out at Pine Pastures .
We 're all Bells out there -- ca n't throw a stone without hitting one .
Glad you like the roses . ''
After that the vegetable-man brought Jessamine a bouquet every trip .
Now it was a big bunch of field-daisies or golden buttercups , now a green glory of spicy ferns , now a cluster of old-fashioned garden flowers .
`` They keep life in me , '' Jessamine told him .
They were great friends by this time .
True , she knew little about him but she felt instinctively that he was manly and kind-hearted .
One day when he came Jessamine met him almost gleefully .
`` No , nothing today .
There is no dinner to cook . ''
`` You do n't say .
Where are the folks ? ''
`` Gone on an excursion .
They wo n't be back until tonight . ''
`` They wo n't ?
Well , I 'll tell you what to do .
You get ready , and when I 'm through my rounds we 'll go for a drive up the country . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Bell !
But wo n't it be too much bother for you ? ''
`` Well , I reckon not !
You want an excursion as well as other folks , and you shall have it . ''
`` Oh , thank you so much .
Yes , I 'll be ready .
You do n't know how much it means to me . ''
`` Poor little creature , '' said Mr. Bell , as he drove away .
`` It 's downright cruelty , that 's what it is , to keep her penned up like that .
You might as well coop up a lark in a hen-house and expect it to thrive and sing .
I 'd like to give that brother of hers a piece of my mind . ''
When he lifted her up to the high seat of his express wagon that afternoon he said , `` Now , I want you to do something .
Just shut your eyes and do n't open them again until I tell you to . ''
Jessamine laughed and obeyed .
Finally she heard him say , `` Look . ''
Jessamine opened her eyes with a little cry .
They were on a remote country road , cool and dim and quiet , in the very heart of the beech woods .
Long banners of light fell athwart the grey boles .
Along the roadsides grew sheets of feathery ferns .
Above the sky was gloriously blue .
The air was sweet with the wild woodsy smell of the forest .
Jessamine lifted and clasped her hands in rapture .
`` Oh , how lovely ! ''
`` Do you know where we 're going ? ''
said Mr. Bell delightedly .
`` Out to my farm at Pine Pastures .
My aunt keeps house for me , and she 'll be real glad to see you .
You 're just going to have a real good time this afternoon . ''
They had a delightful drive to begin with , and presently Mr. Bell turned into a wide lane .
`` This is Cloverside Farm .
I 'm proud of it , I 'll admit .
There is n't a finer place in the county .
What do you think of it ? ''
`` Oh , it is lovely -- it is like home .
Look at those great fields .
I 'd like to go and lie down in that clover . ''
Mr. Bell lifted her from the wagon and marched her up a flowery garden path .
`` You shall do it , and everything else you want to .
Here , Aunt , this is the young lady I spoke of .
Make her at home while I tend to the horses . ''
Miss Bell was a pleasant-faced woman with silver hair and kind blue eyes .
She took Jessamine 's hand in a friendly fashion .
`` Come in , dear .
You 're welcome as a June rose . ''
When Mr. Bell returned , he found Jessamine standing on the porch with her hands full of honeysuckle and her cheeks pink with excitement .
`` I declare , you 've got roses already , '' he exclaimed .
`` If they 'd only stay now , and not bleach out again .
What 's first now ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't know .
There are so many things I want to do .
Those flowers in the garden are calling me -- and I want to go down to that hollow and pick buttercups -- and I want to stay right here and look at things . ''
Mr. Bell laughed .
`` Come with me to the pasture and see my Jersey calves .
They 're something worth seeing .
Come , Aunt .
This way , Miss Stacy . ''
He led the way down the lane , the two women following together .
Jessamine thought she must be in a pleasant dream .
The whole afternoon was a feast of delight to her starved heart .
When sunset came she sat down , tired out , but radiant , on the porch steps .
Her hat had slipped back and her hair was curling around her face .
Her dark eyes were aglow ; the roses still bloomed in her cheeks .
Mr. Bell looked at her admiringly .
`` If a man could see that pretty sight every night ! ''
he thought .
`` And , Great Scott , why ca n't he ?
What 's to prevent , I 'd like to know ? ''
When the moon rose , Mr. Bell brought his team around and they drove back through the clear night , past the wonderful stillness of the great beech woods and the wide fields .
The farmer looked sideways at his companion .
`` The little thing wants to be petted and looked after , '' he thought .
`` She 's just pining away for home and love .
And why ca n't she have it ?
She 's dying by inches in that hole back in town . ''
Jessamine , quite unsuspecting the farmer 's meditations , was living over again in fancy the joys of the afternoon : the ramble in the pasture , the drink of water from the spring under the hillside pines , the bountiful , old-fashioned country supper in the vine-shaded dining-room , the cup of new milk in the dairy at sunset , and all the glory of skies and meadows and trees .
How could she go back to her cage again ?
The next week Mr. Bell , senior , resumed his visits , and the young farmer came no more to the side door of No. 49 .
Jessamine missed him greatly .
Mr. Bell , senior , never brought her clover or honeysuckle .
But one day his nephew suddenly reappeared .
Jessamine opened the door for him , and her face lighted up , but Mr. Bell saw that she had been crying .
`` Did you think I had forgotten you ? ''
he asked .
`` Not a bit of it .
Harvest was on and I could n't get clear before .
I 've come to ask you when you intend to take another drive to Cloverside Farm .
What have you been up to ?
You look as if you 'd been working too hard . ''
`` I -- I -- have n't felt very well .
I 'm glad you came today , Mr. Bell .
Perhaps I shall not see you again , and I wanted to say goodbye and thank you for all your kindness . ''
`` Goodbye ?
Why , where are you going ? ''
`` My brother went west a week ago , '' faltered Jessamine .
She could not bring herself to tell the clear-eyed farmer that John Stacy had failed and had been obliged to start for the west without saying goodbye to his creditors .
`` His wife and I -- are going too -- next week . ''
`` Oh , Jessamine , '' exclaimed Mr. Bell in despair , `` do n't go -- you must n't .
I want you at Cloverside Farm .
I came today on purpose to ask you .
I love you and I 'll make you happy if you 'll marry me .
What do you say , Jessamine ? ''
Jessamine , by way of answer , sat down on the nearest chair and began to cry .
`` Oh , do n't , '' said the wooer in distress .
`` I did n't want to make you feel bad .
If you do n't like the idea , I wo n't mention it again . ''
`` Oh , it is n't that -- but I -- I thought nobody cared what became of me .
You are so kind -- I 'm afraid I 'd only be a bother to you ... '' `` I 'll risk that .
You shall have a happy home , little girl .
Will you come to it ? ''
`` Ye-e-e-s . ''
It was very indistinct and faltering , but Mr. Bell heard it and considered it a most eloquent answer .
Mrs. John fumed and sulked and chose to consider herself hoodwinked and injured .
But Mr. Bell was a resolute man , and a few days later he came for the last time to No. 49 and took his bride away with him .
As they drove through the beech woods he put his arm tenderly around the shy , smiling little woman beside him and said , `` You 'll never be sorry for this , my dear . ''
And she never was .
Miss Sally 's Letter Miss Sally peered sharply at Willard Stanley , first through her gold-rimmed glasses and then over them .
Willard continued to look very innocent .
Joyce got up abruptly and went out of the room .
`` So you have bought that queer little house with the absurd name ? ''
said Miss Sally .
`` You surely do n't call Eden an absurd name , '' protested Willard .
`` I do -- for a house .
Particularly such a house as that .
Eden !
There are no Edens on earth .
And what are you going to do with it ? ''
`` Live in it . ''
`` Alone ? ''
Miss Sally looked at him suspiciously .
`` No .
The truth is , Miss Sally , I am hoping to be married in the fall and I want to fix up Eden for my bride . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Miss Sally drew a long breath , partly it seemed of relief and partly of triumph , and looked at Joyce , who had returned , with an expression that said , `` I told you so '' ; but Joyce , whose eyes were cast down , did not see it .
`` And , '' went on Willard calmly , `` I want you to help me fix it up , Miss Sally .
I do n't know much about such things and you know everything .
You will be able to tell me just what to do to make Eden habitable . ''
Miss Sally looked as pleased as she ever allowed herself to look over anything a man suggested .
It was the delight of her heart to plan and decorate and contrive .
Her own house was a model of comfort and good taste , and Miss Sally was quite ready for new worlds to conquer .
Instantly Eden assumed importance in her eyes .
She might be sorry for the misguided bride who was rashly going to trust her life 's keeping to a man , but she would see , at least , that the poor thing should have a decent place to begin her martyrdom in .
`` I 'll be pleased to help you all I can , '' she said graciously .
Miss Sally could speak very graciously when she chose , even to men .
You would not have thought she hated them , but she did .
In all sincerity , too .
Also , she had brought her niece up to hate and distrust them .
Or , she had tried to do so .
But at times Miss Sally was troubled with an uncomfortable suspicion that Joyce did not hate and distrust men quite as thoroughly as she ought .
The suspicion had recurred several times this summer since Willard Stanley had come to take charge of the biological station at the harbour .
Miss Sally did not distrust Willard on his own account .
She merely distrusted him on principle and on Joyce 's account .
Nevertheless , she was rather nice to him .
Miss Sally , dear , trim , dainty Miss Sally , with her snow-white curls and her big girlish black eyes , could n't help being nice , even to a man .
Willard had come a great deal to Miss Sally 's .
If it were Joyce he were after Miss Sally blocked his schemes with much enjoyment .
He never saw Joyce alone -- that Miss Sally knew of , at least -- and he did not make much apparent headway .
But now all danger was removed , Miss Sally thought .
He was going to be married to somebody else , and Joyce was safe .
`` Thank you , '' said Willard .
`` I 'll come up tomorrow afternoon , and you and I will take a prowl about Eden and see what must be done .
I 'm ever so much obliged , Miss Sally . ''
`` I wonder who he is going to marry , '' said Miss Sally , careless of grammar , after he had gone .
`` Poor , poor girl ! ''
`` I do n't see why you should pity her , '' said Joyce , not looking up from her embroidery .
There was just the merest tremor in her voice .
Miss Sally looked at her sharply .
`` I pity any woman who is foolish enough to marry , '' she said solemnly .
`` No man is to be trusted , Joyce -- no man .
They are all ready to break a trusting woman 's heart for the sport of it .
Never you allow any man the chance to break yours , Joyce .
I shall never consent to your marrying anybody , so mind you do n't take any such notion into your head .
There ought n't to be any danger , for I have instilled correct ideas on this subject into you from childhood .
But girls are such fools .
I know , because I was one myself once . ''
`` Of course , I would never marry without your consent , Aunt Sally , '' said Joyce , smiling faintly but affectionately at her aunt .
Joyce loved Miss Sally with her whole heart .
Everybody did who knew her .
There never was a more lovable creature than this pretty little old maid who hated the men so bitterly .
`` That 's a good girl , '' said Miss Sally approvingly .
`` I own that I have been a little afraid that this Willard Stanley was coming here to see you .
But my mind is set at rest on that point now , and I shall help him fix up his doll house with a clear conscience .
Eden , indeed ! ''
Miss Sally sniffed and tripped out of the room to hunt up a furniture catalogue .
Joyce sighed and let her embroidery slip to the floor .
`` Oh , I 'm afraid Willard 's plan wo n't succeed , '' she murmured .
`` I 'm afraid Aunt Sally will never consent to our marriage .
And I ca n't and wo n't marry him unless she does , for she would never forgive me and I could n't bear that .
I wonder what makes her so bitter against men .
She is so sweet and loving , it seems simply unnatural that she should have such a feeling so deeply rooted in her .
Oh , what will she say when she finds out -- dear little Aunt Sally ?
I could n't bear to have her angry with me . ''
The next day Willard came up from the harbour and took Miss Sally down to see Eden .
Eden was a tiny , cornery , gabled grey house just across the road and down a long , twisted windy lane , skirting the edge of a beech wood .
Nobody had lived in it for four years , and it had a neglected , out-at-elbow appearance .
`` It 's rather a box of a place , is n't it ? ''
said Willard slowly .
`` I 'm afraid she will think so .
But it is all I can afford just now .
I dream of giving her a palace some day , of course .
But we 'll have to begin humbly .
Do you think anything can be made of it ? ''
Miss Sally was busily engaged in sizing up the possibilities of the place .
`` It is pretty small , '' she said meditatively .
`` And the yard is small too -- and there are far too many trees and shrubs all messed up together .
They must be thinned out -- and that paling taken down .
I think a good deal can be done with it .
As for the house -- well , let us see the inside . ''
Willard unlocked the door and showed Miss Sally over the place .
Miss Sally poked and pried and sniffed and wrinkled her forehead , and finally stood on the stairs and delivered her ultimatum .
`` This house can be done up very nicely .
Paint and paper will work wonders .
But I would n't paint it outside .
Leave it that pretty silver weather-grey and plant vines to run over it .
Oh , we 'll see what we can do .
Of course it is small -- a kitchen , a dining room , a living room , and two bedrooms .
You wo n't want anything stuffy .
You can do the painting yourself , and I 'll help you hang the paper .
How much money can you spend on it ? ''
Willard named the sum .
It was not a large one .
`` But I think it will do , '' mused Miss Sally .
`` We 'll make it do .
There 's such satisfaction getting as much as you possibly can out of a dollar , and twice as much as anybody else would get .
I enjoy that sort of thing .
This will be a game , and we 'll play it with a right good will .
But I do wish you would give the place a sensible name . ''
`` I think Eden is the most appropriate name in the world , '' laughed Willard .
`` It will be Eden for me when she comes . ''
`` I suppose you tell her all that and she believes it , '' said Miss Sally sarcastically .
`` You 'll both find out that there is a good deal more prose than poetry in life . ''
`` But we 'll find it out together , '' said Willard tenderly .
`` Wo n't that be worth something , Miss Sally ?
Prose , rightly written and read , is sometimes as beautiful as poetry . ''
Miss Sally deigned no reply .
She carefully gathered up her grey silken skirts from the dusty floor and walked out .
`` Get Christina Bowes to come up tomorrow and scrub this place out , '' she said practically .
`` We can go to town and select paint and paper .
I should like the dining room done in pale green and the living room in creamy tones , ranging from white to almost golden brown .
But perhaps my taste wo n't be hers . ''
`` Oh , yes , it will , '' said Willard with assurance .
`` I am quite certain she will like everything you like .
I can never thank you enough for helping me .
If you had n't consented I should have had to put it into the hands of some outsider whom I could n't have helped at all .
And I wanted to help .
I wanted to have a finger in everything , because it is for her , you see , Miss Sally .
It will be such a delight to fix up this little house , knowing that she is coming to live in it . ''
`` I wonder if you really mean it , '' said Miss Sally bitterly .
`` Oh , I dare say you think you do .
But do you ?
Perhaps you do .
Perhaps you are the exception that proves the rule . ''
This was a great admission for Miss Sally to make .
For the next two months Miss Sally was happy .
Even Willard himself was not more keenly interested in Eden and its development .
Miss Sally did wonders with his money .
She was an expert at bargain hunting , and her taste was excellent .
A score of times she mercilessly nipped Willard 's suggestions in the bud .
`` Lace curtains for the living room -- never !
They would be horribly out of place in such a house .
You do n't want curtains at all -- just a frill is all that quaint window needs , with a shelf above it for a few bits of pottery .
I picked up a love of a brass platter in town yesterday -- got it for next to nothing from that old Jew who would really rather give you a thing than suffer you to escape without taking something .
Oh , I know how to manage them . ''
`` You certainly do , '' laughed Willard .
`` It amazes me to see how far you can stretch a dollar . ''
Willard did the painting under Miss Sally 's watchful eye , and they hung the paper together .
Together they made trips to town or junketed over the country in search of furniture and dishes of which Miss Sally had heard .
Day by day the little house blossomed into a home , and day by day Miss Sally 's interest in it grew .
She began to have a personal affection for its quaint rooms and their adornments .
Moreover , in spite of herself , she felt a growing interest in Willard 's bride .
He never told her the name of the girl he hoped to bring to Eden , and Miss Sally never asked it .
But he talked of her a great deal , in a shy , reverent , tender way .
`` He certainly seems to be very much in love with her , '' Miss Sally told Joyce one evening when she returned from Eden .
`` I would believe in him if it were possible for me to believe in a man .
Anyway , she will have a dear little home .
I 've almost come to love that Eden house .
Why do n't you come down and see it , Joyce ? ''
`` Oh , I 'll come some day -- I hope , '' said Joyce lightly .
`` I think I 'd rather not see it until it is finished . ''
`` Willard is a nice boy , '' said Miss Sally suddenly .
`` I do n't think I ever did him justice before .
The finer qualities of his character come out in these simple , homely little doings and tasks .
He is certainly very thoughtful and kind .
Oh , I suppose he 'll make a good husband , as husbands go .
But he does n't know the first thing about managing .
If his wife is n't a good manager , I do n't know what they 'll do .
And perhaps she wo n't like the way we 've done up Eden .
Willard says she will , of course , because he thinks her perfection .
But she may have dreadful taste and want the lace curtains and that nightmare of a pink rug Willard admired , and I dare say she 'd rather have a new flaunting set of china with rosebuds on it than that dear old dull blue I picked up for a mere song down at the Aldenbury auction .
I stood in the rain for two mortal hours to make sure of it , and it was really worth all that Willard has spent on the dining room put together .
It will break my heart if she sets to work altering Eden .
It 's simply perfect as it is -- though I suppose I should n't say it . ''
* * * * * In another week Eden was finished .
Miss Sally stood in the tiny hall and looked about her .
`` Well , it is done , '' she said with a sigh .
`` I 'm sorry .
I have enjoyed fixing it up tremendously , and now I feel that my occupation is gone .
I hope you are satisfied , Willard . ''
`` Satisfied is too mild a word , Miss Sally .
I am delighted .
I knew you could accomplish wonders , but I never hoped for this .
Eden is a dream -- the dearest , quaintest , sweetest little home that ever waited for a bride .
When I bring her here -- oh , Miss Sally , do you know what that thought means to me ? ''
Miss Sally looked curiously at the young man .
His face was flushed and his voice trembled a little .
There was a far-away shining look in his eyes as if he saw a vision .
`` I hope you and she will be happy , '' said Miss Sally slowly .
`` When will she be coming , Willard ? ''
The flush went out of Willard 's face , leaving it pale and determined .
`` That is for her -- and you -- to say , '' he answered steadily .
`` Me ! ''
exclaimed Miss Sally .
`` What have I to do with it ? ''
`` A great deal -- for unless you consent she will never come here at all . ''
`` Willard Stanley , '' said Miss Sally , with ominous calm , `` who is the girl you mean to marry ? ''
`` The girl I hope to marry is Joyce , Miss Sally .
Wait -- do n't say anything till you hear me out . ''
He came close to her and caught her hands in a boyish grip .
`` Joyce and I have loved each other ever since we met .
But we despaired of winning your consent , and Joyce will not marry me without it .
I thought if I could get you to help me fix up my little home that you might get so interested in it -- and so well acquainted with me -- that you would trust me with Joyce .
Please do , Miss Sally .
I love her so truly and I know I can make her happy .
If you do n't , Eden shall never have a mistress .
I 'll shut it up , just as it is , and leave it sacred to the dead hope of a bride that will never come to it . ''
`` Oh , you would n't , '' protested Miss Sally .
`` It would be a shame -- such a dear little house -- and after all the trouble I 've taken .
But you have tricked me -- oh , you men could n't be straightforward in anything -- '' `` Was n't it a fair device for a desperate lover , Miss Sally ? ''
interrupted Willard .
`` Oh , you must n't hold spite because of it , dear ; And you will give me Joyce , wo n't you ?
Because if you do n't , I really will shut up Eden forever . ''
Miss Sally looked wistfully around her .
Through the open door on her left she saw the little living room with its quaint , comfortable furniture , its dainty pictures and adornments .
Through the front door she saw the trim , velvet-swarded little lawn .
Upstairs were two white rooms that only wanted a woman 's living presence to make them jewels .
And the kitchen on which she had expended so much thought and ingenuity -- the kitchen furnished to the last detail , even to the kindling in the range and the match Willard had laid ready to light it !
It gave Miss Sally a pang to think of that altar fire never being lighted .
It was really the thought of the kitchen that finished Miss Sally .
`` You 've tricked me , '' she said again reproachfully .
`` You 've tricked me into loving this house so much that I can not bear the thought of it never living .
You 'll have to have Joyce , I suppose .
And I believe I 'm glad that it is n't a stranger who is to be the mistress of Eden .
Joyce wo n't hanker after pink rugs and lace curtains .
And her taste in china is the same as mine .
In one way it 's a great relief to my mind .
But it 's a fearful risk -- a fearful risk .
To think that you may make my dear child miserable ! ''
`` You know you do n't think that I will , Miss Sally .
I 'm not really such a bad fellow , now , am I ? ''
`` You are a man -- and I have no confidence whatever in men , '' declared Miss Sally , wiping some very real tears from her eyes with a very unreal sort of handkerchief -- one of the cobwebby affairs of lace her daintiness demanded .
`` Miss Sally , why have you such a rooted distrust of men ? ''
demanded Willard curiously .
`` Somehow , it seems so foreign to your character . ''
`` I suppose you think I am a perfect crank , '' said Miss Sally , sighing .
`` Well , I 'll tell you why I do n't trust men .
I have a very good reason for it .
A man broke my heart and embittered my life .
I 've never spoken about it to a living soul , but if you want to hear about it , you shall . ''
Miss Sally sat down on the second step of the stairs and tucked her wet handkerchief away .
She clasped her slender white hands over her knee .
In spite of her silvery hair and the little lines on her face she looked girlish and youthful .
There was a pink flush on her cheeks , and her big black eyes sparkled with the anger her memories aroused in her .
`` I was a young girl of twenty when I met him , '' she said , `` and I was just as foolish as all young girls are -- foolish and romantic and sentimental .
He was very handsome and I thought him -- but there , I wo n't go into that .
It vexes me to recall my folly .
But I loved him -- yes , I did , with all my heart -- with all there was of me to love .
He made me love him .
He deliberately set himself to win my love .
For a whole summer he flirted with me .
I did n't know he was flirting -- I thought him in earnest .
Oh , I was such a little fool -- and so happy .
Then -- he went away .
Went away suddenly without even a word of goodbye .
But he had been summoned home by his father 's serious illness , and I thought he would write -- I waited -- I hoped .
I never heard from him -- never saw him again .
He had tired of his plaything and flung it aside .
That is all , '' concluded Miss Sally passionately .
`` I never trusted any man again .
When my sister died and gave me her baby , I determined to bring the dear child up safely , training her to avoid the danger I had fallen into .
Well , I 've failed .
But perhaps it will be all right -- perhaps there are some men who are true , though Stephen Merritt was false . ''
`` Stephen -- who ? ''
demanded Willard abruptly .
Miss Sally coloured .
`` I did n't mean to tell you his name , '' she said , getting up .
`` It was a slip of the tongue .
Never mind -- forget it and him .
He was not worthy of remembrance -- and yet I do remember him .
I ca n't forget him -- and I hate him all the more for it -- for having entered so deeply into my life that I could not cast him out when I knew him unworthy .
It is humiliating .
There -- let us lock up Eden and go home .
I suppose you are dying to see Joyce and tell her your precious plot has succeeded . ''
Willard did not appear to be at all impatient .
He had relapsed into a brown study , during which he let Miss Sally lock up the house .
Then he walked silently home with her .
Miss Sally was silent too .
Perhaps she was repenting her confidence -- or perhaps she was thinking of her false lover .
There was a pathetic droop to her lips , and her black eyes were sad and dreamy .
`` Miss Sally , '' said Willard at last , as they neared her house , `` had Stephen Merritt any sisters ? ''
Miss Sally threw him a puzzled glance .
`` He had one -- Jean Merritt -- whom I disliked and who disliked me , '' she said crisply .
`` I do n't want to talk of her -- she was the only woman I ever hated .
I never met any of the other members of his family -- his home was in a distant part of the state . ''
Willard stayed with Joyce so brief a time that Miss Sally viewed his departure with suspicion .
This was not very lover-like conduct .
`` I dare say he 's like all the rest -- when his aim is attained the prize loses its value , '' reflected Miss Sally pessimistically .
`` Poor Joyce -- poor child !
But there -- there is n't a single inharmonious thing in his house -- that is one comfort .
I 'm so thankful I did n't let Willard buy those brocade chairs he wanted .
They would have given Joyce the nightmare . ''
Meanwhile , Willard rushed down to the biological station and from there drove furiously to the station to catch the evening express .
He did not return until three days later , when he appeared at Miss Sally 's , dusty and triumphant .
`` Joyce is out , '' said Miss Sally .
`` I 'm glad of it , '' said Willard recklessly .
`` It 's you I want to see , Miss Sally .
I have something to show you .
I 've been all the way home to get it . ''
From his pocketbook Willard drew something folded and creased and yellow that looked like a letter .
He opened it carefully and , holding it in his fingers , looked over it at Miss Sally .
`` My grandmother 's maiden name was Jean Merritt , '' he said deliberately , `` and Stephen Merritt was my great-uncle .
I never saw him -- he died when I was a child -- but I 've heard my father speak of him often . ''
Miss Sally turned very pale .
She passed her cobwebby handkerchief across her lips and her hand trembled .
Willard went on .
`` My uncle never married .
He and his sister Jean lived together until her late marriage .
I was not very fond of my grandmother .
She was a selfish , domineering woman -- very unlike the grandmother of tradition .
When she died everything she possessed came to me , as my father , her only child , was then dead .
In looking over a box of old papers I found a letter -- an old love letter .
I read it with some interest , wondering whose it could be and how it came among Grandmother 's private letters .
It was signed ` Stephen , ' so that I guessed my great-uncle had been the writer , but I had no idea who the Sally was to whom it was written , until the other day .
Then I knew it was you -- and I went home to bring you your letter -- the letter you should have received long ago .
Why you did not receive it I can not explain .
I fear that my grandmother must have been to blame for that -- she must have intercepted and kept the letter in order to part her brother and you .
In so far as I can I wish to repair the wrong she has done you .
I know it can never be repaired -- but at least I think this letter will take the bitterness out of the memory of your lover . ''
He dropped the letter in Miss Sally 's lap and went away .
Pale , Miss Sally picked it up and read it .
It was from Stephen Merritt to `` dearest Sally , '' and contained a frank , manly avowal of love .
Would she be his wife ?
If she would , let her write and tell him so .
But if she did not and could not love him , let her silence reveal the bitter fact ; he would wish to spare her the pain of putting her refusal into words , and if she did not write he would understand that she was not for him .
When Willard and Joyce came back into the twilight room they found Miss Sally still sitting by the table , her head leaning pensively on her hand .
She had been crying -- the cobwebby handkerchief lay beside her , wrecked and ruined forever -- but she looked very happy .
`` I wonder if you know what you have done for me , '' she said to Willard .
`` But no -- you ca n't know -- you ca n't realize it fully .
It means everything to me .
You have taken away my humiliation and restored to me my pride of womanhood .
He really loved me -- he was not false -- he was what I believed him to be .
Nothing else matters to me at all now .
Oh , I am very happy -- but it would never have been if I had not consented to give you Joyce . ''
She rose and took their hands in hers , joining them .
`` God bless you , dears , '' she said softly .
`` I believe you will be happy and that your love for each other will always be true and faithful and tender .
Willard , I give you my dear child in perfect trust and confidence . ''
With her yellowed love letter clasped to her heart , and a raptured shining in her eyes , Miss Sally went out of the room .
My Lady Jane The boat got into Broughton half an hour after the train had gone .
We had been delayed by some small accident to the machinery ; hence that lost half-hour , which meant a night 's sojourn for me in Broughton .
I am ashamed of the things I thought and said .
When I think that fate might have taken me at my word and raised up a special train , or some such miracle , by which I might have got away from Broughton that night , I experience a cold chill .
Out of gratitude I have never sworn over missing connections since .
At the time , however , I felt thoroughly exasperated .
I was in a hurry to get on .
Important business engagements would be unhinged by the delay .
I was a stranger in Broughton .
It looked like a stupid , stuffy little town .
I went to a hotel in an atrocious humor .
After I had fumed until I wanted a change , it occurred to me that I might as well hunt up Clark Oliver by way of passing the time .
I had never been overly fond of Clark Oliver , although he was my cousin .
He was a bit of a cad , and stupider than anyone belonging to our family had a right to be .
Moreover , he was in politics , and I detest politics .
But I rather wanted to see if he looked as much like me as he used to .
I had n't seen him for three years and I hoped that the time might have differentiated us to a saving degree .
It was over a year since I had last been blown up by some unknown , excited individual on the ground that I was that scoundrel Oliver -- politically speaking .
I thought that was a good omen .
I went to Clark 's office , found he had left , and followed him to his rooms .
The minute I saw him I experienced the same nasty feeling of lost or bewildered individuality which always overcame me in his presence .
He was so absurdly like me .
I felt as if I were looking into a mirror where my reflection persisted in doing things I did n't do , thereby producing a most uncanny sensation .
Clark pretended he was glad to see me .
He really could n't have been , because his Great Idea had n't struck him then , and we had always disliked each other .
`` Hello , Elliott , '' he said , shaking me by the hand with a twist he had learned in election campaigns , whereby something like heartiness was simulated .
`` Glad to see you , old fellow .
Gad , you 're as like me as ever .
Where did you drop from ? ''
I explained my predicament and we talked amiably and harmlessly for awhile about family gossip .
I abhor family gossip , but it is a shade better than politics , and those two subjects are the only ones on which Clark can converse at all .
I described Mary Alice 's wedding , and Florence 's new young man , and Tom-and-Kate 's twins .
Clark tried to be interested but I saw he had something on what serves him for a mind .
After awhile it came out .
He looked at his watch with a frown .
`` I 'm in a bit of a puzzle , '' he said .
`` The Mark Kennedys are giving a dinner to-night .
You do n't know them , of course .
They 're the big people of Broughton .
Kennedy runs the politics of the place , and Mrs. K. makes or mars people socially .
It 's my first invitation there and it 's necessary I should accept it -- necessary every way .
Mrs. K. would never forgive me if I disappointed her at the last moment .
Not that I , personally , am of much account -- yet -- to her .
But it would leave a vacant place .
Mrs. K. would never notice me again and , as she bosses Kennedy , I ca n't afford to offend her .
Besides , there 's a girl who 'll be there .
I 've met her once .
I want to meet her again .
She 's a beauty and no mistake .
Toplofty as they make 'em , though .
However , I think I 've made an impression on her .
It was at the Harvey 's dance last week .
She was the handsomest woman there , and she never took her eyes off me .
I 've given Mrs. Kennedy a pretty broad hint that I want to take her in to dinner .
If I do n't go I 'll miss all round . ''
`` Well , what is there to prevent you from going ? ''
I asked , squiffily .
I never could endure the way Clark talked about girls and hinted at his conquests .
`` Just this .
Herbert Bronson came to town this afternoon and is leaving on the 10.30 train to-night .
He 's sent me word to meet him at his hotel this evening and talk over a mining deal I 've been trying to pull off .
I simply must go .
It 's my one chance to corral Bronson .
If I lose him it 'll be all up , and I 'll be thousands out of pocket . ''
`` Well , you are in rather a predicament , '' I agreed , with the philosophical acceptance of the situation that marks the outsider .
I was n't hampered by the multiplicity of my business and social engagements that evening , so I could afford to pity Clark .
It is always rather nice to be able to pity a person you dislike .
`` I should say so .
I ca n't make up my mind what to do .
Hang it .
I 'll have to see Bronson .
There 's no question about that .
A man ought to keep an understood substitute on hand to send to dinners when he ca n't go .
By Jove !
Elliott ! ''
Clark 's Great Idea had arrived .
He bounced up eagerly .
`` Elliott , will you go to the Kennedys ' in my place ?
They 'll never know the difference .
Do , now -- there 's a good fellow ! ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
I said .
`` It is n't nonsense .
The resemblance between us was foreordained for this hour .
I 'll lend you my dress suit -- it 'll fit you -- your figure is as much like mine as your face .
You 've nothing to do with yourself this evening .
I offer you a good dinner and an agreeable partner .
Come now , to oblige me .
You know you owe me a good turn for that Mulhenen business . ''
The Mulhenen business clinched the matter .
Until he mentioned it I had no notion whatever of masquerading as Clark Oliver at the Kennedys ' dinner .
But , as Clark so delicately put it , he had done me a good turn in that affair and the obligation had rankled ever since .
It is beastly to be indebted for a favor to a man you detest .
Now was my chance to pay it off and I took it without more ado .
`` But , '' I said doubtfully , `` I do n't know the Kennedys -- nor any of the social stunts that are doing in Broughton ; I wo n't dare to talk about anything , and I 'll seem so stupid , even if I do n't actually make some irremediable blunder , that the Kennedys will be disgusted with you .
It will probably do your prospects more harm than your absence would . ''
`` Not at all .
Keep your mouth shut when you can and talk generalities when you ca n't , and you 'll pass .
If you take that girl in she 's a stranger in Broughton and wo n't suspect your ignorance of what 's going on .
Nobody will suspect you .
Nobody here knows I have a cousin so like me .
Our own mothers have n't always been able to tell us apart .
Our very voices are alike .
Come now , get into my dinner togs .
You have n't much time and Mrs. K. does n't like late comers . ''
There seemed to be a number of things that Mrs. Kennedy did not like .
I thought my chance of pleasing that critical lady extremely small , especially when I had to live up to Clark Oliver 's personality .
However , I dressed as expeditiously as possible .
The novelty of the adventure rather pleased me .
I always liked doing unusual things .
Anything was better than lounging away the evening at my hotel .
It could n't do any harm .
I owed Clark Oliver a good turn and I would save Mrs. Kennedy the annoyance of a vacant chair .
There was no disputing the fact that I looked most disgustingly like Clark when I got into his clothes .
I actually felt a grudge against them for their excellent fit .
`` You 'll do , '' said Clark .
`` Remember you 're a Conservative to-night and do n't let your rank Liberal views crop out , or you 'll queer me for all time with the great and only Mark .
He does n't talk politics at his dinners , though , so you 're not likely to have trouble on that score .
Mrs. Kennedy has a weakness for beer mugs .
Her collection is considered very fine .
Scandal whispers that Miss Harvey has a budding interest in settlement work -- '' `` Miss who ? ''
I said sharply .
`` Harvey .
Christian name unknown .
That 's the girl I mentioned .
You 'll probably take her in .
Be nice to her even if you have to make an effort .
She 's the one I 've picked out as your future cousin , you know , so I do n't want you to spoil her good opinion of me in any way . ''
The name had given me a jump .
Once , in another world , I had known a Jane Harvey .
But Clark 's Miss Harvey could n't be Jane .
A month before I had read a newspaper item to the effect that Jane was on the Pacific coast .
Moreover , Jane , when I knew her , had certainly no manifest vocation for settlement work .
I did n't think two years could have worked such a transformation .
Two years !
Was it only two years ?
It seemed more like two centuries .
I went to the Kennedys ' in a pleasantly excited frame of mind and a cab .
I just missed being late by a hairbreadth .
The house was a big one , and everybody pertaining to it was big , except the host .
Mark Kennedy was a little , thin man with a bald head .
He did n't look like a political power , but that was all the more reason for his being one in a world where things are not what they seem .
Mrs. Kennedy greeted me cordially and told me significantly that she had granted my request .
This meant , as my card had already informed me , that I was to take Miss Harvey out .
Of course there would be no introduction since Clark Oliver was already acquainted with the lady .
I was wondering how I was to locate her when I got a shock that made me dizzy .
Jane was over in a corner looking at me .
There was no time to collect my wits .
The guests were moving out to the dining-room .
I took my nerve in my hand , crossed the room , bowed , and the next moment was walking through the hall with Jane 's hand on my arm .
The hall was a good long one ; I blessed the architect who had planned it .
It gave me time to sort out my ideas .
Jane here !
Jane going out to dinner with me , believing me to be Clark Oliver !
Jane -- but it was incredible !
The whole thing was a dream -- or I had gone crazy !
I looked at her sideways when we had got into our places at the table .
She was more beautiful than ever , that tall , brown-haired , disdainful Jane .
The settlement work story I was inclined to dismiss as a myth .
Settlement work in a beautiful woman generally means crowsfeet or a broken heart .
Jane , according to my sight and belief , possessed neither .
Once upon a time I had been engaged to Jane .
I had been idiotically in love with her in those days and still more idiotically believed that she loved me .
The trouble was that , although I had been cured of the latter phase of my idiocy , the former had become chronic .
I had never been able to get over loving Jane .
All through those two years I had hugged the fond hope that sometime I might stumble across her in a mild mood and make matters up .
There was no such thing as seeking her out or writing to her , since she had icily forbidden me to do so , and Jane had a most detestable habit -- in a woman -- of meaning what she said .
But the deity I had invoked was the god of chance -- and this was how he had answered my prayers .
I was eating my dinner beside Jane , who supposed me to be Clark Oliver !
What should I do ?
Confess the truth and plead my cause while she had to sit beside me ?
That would never do .
Someone might overhear us .
And , in any case , it would be no passport to Jane 's favor that I was a guest in the house under false pretences .
She would be certain to disapprove strongly .
It was a maddening situation .
Jane , who was calmly eating soup -- she was the only woman I had ever seen who could eat soup and look like a goddess at the same time -- glanced around and caught me studying her profile .
I thought she blushed slightly and I raged inwardly to think that blush was meant for Clark Oliver -- Clark Oliver who had told me he thought Jane was smitten on him !
Jane !
On him !
`` Do you know , Mr. Oliver , '' said Jane slowly , `` that you are startlingly like a -- a person I used to know ?
When I first saw you the other night I took you for him . ''
A person you used to know !
Oh , Jane , that was the most unkindest cut of all .
`` My cousin , Elliott Cameron , I suppose ? ''
I answered as indifferently as I could .
`` We resemble each other very closely .
You were acquainted with Cameron , Miss Harvey ? ''
`` Slightly , '' said Jane .
`` A fine fellow , '' I said unblushingly .
`` A-h , '' said Jane .
`` My favorite relative , '' I went on brazenly .
`` He 's a thoroughly good sort -- rather dull now to what he used to be , though .
He had an unfortunate love affair two years ago and has never got over it . ''
`` Indeed ? ''
said Jane coldly , crumbling a bit of bread between her fingers .
Her face was expressionless and her voice ditto ; but I had heard her criticize nervous people who did things like that at table .
`` I fear poor Elliott 's life has been completely spoiled , '' I said , with a sigh .
`` It 's a shame . ''
`` Did he confide the affair to you ? ''
asked Jane , a little scornfully .
`` Well , after a fashion .
He said enough for me to guess the rest .
He never told me the lady 's name .
She was very beautiful , I understand , and very heartless .
Oh , she used him very badly . ''
`` Did he tell you that , too ? ''
asked Jane .
`` Not he .
He wo n't listen to a word against her .
But a chap can draw his own conclusions , you know . ''
`` What went wrong between them ? ''
asked Jane .
She smiled at a lady across the table , as if she were merely asking questions to make conversation , but she went on crumbling bread .
`` Simply a very stiff quarrel , I believe .
Elliott never went into details .
The lady was flirting with somebody else , I fancy . ''
`` People have such different ideas about flirting , '' said Jane , languidly .
`` What one would call mere simple friendliness another construes into flirting .
Possibly your friend -- or is it your cousin ?
-- is one of those men who become insanely jealous over every trifle and attempt to exert authority before they have any to exert .
A woman of spirit would hardly fail to resent that . ''
`` Of course Elliott was jealous , '' I admitted .
`` But then , you know , Miss Harvey , that jealousy is said to be the measure of a man 's love .
If he went beyond his rights I am sure he is bitterly sorry for it . ''
`` Does he really care about her still ? ''
asked Jane , eating most industriously , although somehow the contents of her plate did hot grow noticeably less .
As for me , I did n't pretend to eat .
I simply pecked .
`` He loves her with all his heart , '' I answered fervently .
`` There never has been and never will be any other woman for Elliott Cameron . ''
`` Why does n't he go and tell her so ? ''
inquired Jane , as if she felt rather bored over the whole subject .
`` He does n't dare to .
She forbade him ever to cross her path again .
Told him she hated him and always would hate him as long as she lived . ''
`` She must have been an unpleasantly emphatic young woman , '' commented Jane .
`` I 'd like to hear anyone say so to Elliott , '' I responded .
`` He considers her perfection .
I 'm sorry for Elliott .
His life is wrecked . ''
`` Do you know , '' said Jane slowly , as if poking about in the recesses of her memory for something half forgotten .
`` I believe I know the -- the girl in question . ''
`` Really ? ''
I said .
`` Yes , she is a friend of mine .
She -- she never told me his name , but putting two and two together , I believe it must have been your cousin .
But she -- she thinks she was the one to blame . ''
`` Does she ? ''
It was my turn to ask questions now , but my heart thumped so that I could hardly speak .
`` Yes , she says she was too hasty and unreasonable .
She did n't mean to flirt at all -- and she never cared for anyone but -- him .
But his jealousy irritated her .
I suppose she said things to him she did n't really mean .
She -- she never supposed he was going to take her at her word . ''
`` Do you think she cares for him still ? ''
Considering what was at stake , I think I asked the question very well .
`` I think she must , '' said Jane languidly .
`` She has never looked at any other man .
She devotes most of her time to charitable work , but I feel sure she is n't really happy . ''
So the settlement story was true .
Oh , Jane !
`` What would you advise my cousin to do ? ''
I asked .
`` Do you think he should go boldly to her ?
Would she listen to him -- forgive him ? ''
`` She might , '' said Jane .
`` Have I your permission to tell Elliott Cameron this ? ''
I demanded .
Jane selected and ate an olive with maddening deliberation .
`` I suppose you may -- if you are really convinced that he wants to hear it , '' she said at last , as if barely recollecting that I had asked the question two minutes previously .
`` I 'll tell him as soon as I go home , '' I said .
I had the satisfaction of startling Jane at last .
She turned her head and looked at me .
I got a good , square , satisfying gaze into her big , blackish-blue eyes .
`` Yes , '' I said , compelling myself to look away .
`` He came in on the boat this afternoon too late for his train .
Has to stay over till to-morrow night .
I left him in my rooms when I came away .
Doubtless to-morrow will see him speeding recklessly to his dear divinity .
I wonder if he knows where she is at present . ''
`` If he does n't , '' said Jane , with the air of dismissing the subject once and forever from her mind , `` I can give him the information .
You may tell him I 'm staying with the Duncan Moores , and shall be leaving day after to-morrow .
By the way , have you seen Mrs. Kennedy 's collection of steins ?
It is a remarkably fine one . ''
Clark Oliver could n't come to our wedding -- or would n't .
Jane has never met him since , but she can not understand why I have such an aversion to him , especially when he has such a good opinion of me .
She says she thought him charming , and one of the most interesting conversationalists she ever went out to dinner with .
Robert Turner 's Revenge When Robert Turner came to the green , ferny triangle where the station road forked to the right and left under the birches , he hesitated as to which direction he would take .
The left led out to the old Turner homestead , where he had spent his boyhood and where his cousin still lived ; the right led down to the Cove shore where the Jameson property was situated .
Since he had stopped off at Chiswick for the purpose of looking this property over before foreclosing the mortgage on it he concluded that he might as well take the Cove road ; he could go around by the shore afterward -- he had not forgotten the way even in forty years -- and so on up through the old spruce wood in Alec Martin 's field -- if the spruces were there still and the field still Alec Martin 's -- to his cousin 's place .
He would just about have time to make the round before the early country supper hour .
Then a brief visit with Tom -- Tom had always been a good sort of a fellow although woefully dull and slow-going -- and the evening express for Montreal .
He swung with a businesslike stride into the Cove road .
As he went on , however , the stride insensibly slackened into an unaccustomed saunter .
How well he remembered that old road , although it was forty years since he had last traversed it , a set-lipped boy of fifteen , cast on the world by the indifference of an uncle .
The years had made surprisingly little difference in it or in the surrounding scenery .
True , the hills and fields and lanes seemed lower and smaller and narrower than he remembered them ; there were some new houses along the road , and the belt of woods along the back of the farms had become thinner in most places .
But that was all .
He had no difficulty in picking out the old familiar spots .
There was the big cherry orchard on the Milligan place which had been so famous in his boyhood .
It was snow-white with blossoms , as if the trees were possessed of eternal youth ; they had been in blossom the last time he had seen them .
Well , time had not stood still with him as it had with Luke Milligan 's cherry orchard , he reflected grimly .
His springtime had long gone by .
The few people he met on the road looked at him curiously , for strangers were not commonplace in Chiswick .
He recognized some of the older among them but none of them knew him .
He had been an awkward , long-limbed lad with fresh boyish colour and crisp black curls when he had left Chiswick .
He returned to it a somewhat portly figure of a man , with close-cropped , grizzled hair , and a face that looked as if it might be carved out of granite , so immobile and unyielding it was -- the face of a man who never faltered or wavered , who stuck at nothing that might advance his plans and purposes , a face known and dreaded in the business world where he reigned master .
It was a cold , hard , selfish face , but the face of the boy of forty years ago had been neither cold nor hard nor selfish .
Presently the homesteads and orchard lands grew fewer and then ceased altogether .
The fields were long and low-lying , sloping down to the misty blue rim of sea .
A turn of the road brought him in sudden sight of the Cove , and there below him was the old Jameson homestead , built almost within wave-lap of the pebbly shore and shut away into a lonely grey world of its own by the sea and sands and those long slopes of tenantless fields .
He paused at the sagging gate that opened into the long , deep-rutted lane and , folding his arms on it , looked earnestly and scrutinizingly over the buildings .
They were grey and faded , lacking the prosperous appearance that had characterized them once .
There was an air of failure about the whole place as if the very land had become disheartened and discouraged .
Long ago , Neil Jameson , senior , had been a well-to-do man .
The big Cove farm had been one of the best in Chiswick then .
As for Neil Jameson , Junior , Robert Turner 's face always grew something grimmer when he recalled him -- the one person , boy and man , whom he had really hated in the world .
They had been enemies from childhood , and once in a bout of wrestling at the Chiswick school Neil had thrown him by an unfair trick and taunted him continually thereafter on his defeat .
Robert had made a compact with himself that some day he would pay Neil Jameson back .
He had not forgotten it -- he never forgot such things -- but he had never seen or heard of Neil Jameson after leaving Chiswick .
He might have been dead for anything Robert Turner knew .
Then , when John Kesley failed and his effects turned over to his creditors , of whom Robert Turner was the chief , a mortgage on the Cove farm at Chiswick , owned by Neil Jameson , had been found among his assets .
Inquiry revealed the fact that Neil Jameson was dead and that the farm was run by his widow .
Turner felt a pang of disappointment .
What satisfaction was there in wreaking revenge on a dead man ?
But at least his wife and children should suffer .
That debt of his to Jameson for an ill-won victory and many a sneer must be paid in full , if not to him , why , then to his heirs .
His lawyers reported that Mrs. Jameson was two years behind with her interest .
Turner instructed them to foreclose the mortgage promptly .
Then he took it into his head to revisit Chiswick and have a good look at the Cove farm and other places he knew so well .
He had a notion that it might be a decent place to spend a summer month or two in .
His wife went to seaside and mountain resorts , but he liked something quieter .
There was good fishing at the Cove and in Chiswick pond , as he remembered .
If he liked the farm as well as his memory promised him he would do , he would bid it in himself .
It would make Neil Jameson turn in his grave if the penniless lad he had jeered at came into the possession of his old ancestral property that had been owned by a Jameson for over one hundred years .
There was a flavour in such a revenge that pleased Robert Turner .
He smiled one of his occasional grim smiles over it .
When Robert Turner smiled , weather prophets of the business sky foretold squalls .
Presently he opened the gate and went through .
Halfway down the lane forked , one branch going over to the house , the other slanting across the field to the cove .
Turner took the latter and soon found himself on the grey shore where the waves were tumbling in creamy foam just as he remembered them long ago .
Nothing about the old cove had changed ; he walked around a knobby headland , weather-worn with the wind and spray of years , which cut him off from sight of the Jameson house , and sat down on a rock .
He thought himself alone and was annoyed to find a boy sitting on the opposite ledge with a book on his knee .
The lad lifted his eyes and looked Turner over with a clear , direct gaze .
He was about twelve years old , tall for his age , slight , with a delicate , clear-cut face -- a face that was oddly familiar to Turner , although he was sure he had never seen it before .
The boy had oval cheeks , finely tinted with colour , big , shy blue eyes quilled about with long black lashes , and silvery-golden hair lying over his head in soft ringlets like a girl 's .
What girl 's ?
Something far back in Robert Turner 's dreamlike boyhood seemed to call to him like a note of a forgotten melody , sweet yet stirring like a pain .
The more he looked at the boy the stronger the impression of a resemblance grew in every feature but the mouth .
That was alien to his recollection of the face , yet there was something about it , when taken by itself , that seemed oddly familiar also -- yes , and unpleasantly familiar , although the mouth was a good one -- finely cut and possessing more firmness than was found in all the other features put together .
`` It 's a good place for reading , sonny , is n't it ? ''
he inquired , more genially than he had spoken to a child for years .
In fact , having no children of his own , he so seldom spoke to a child that his voice and manner when he did so were generally awkward and rusty .
The boy nodded a quick little nod .
Somehow , Turner had expected that nod and the glimmer of a smile that accompanied it .
`` What book are you reading ? ''
he asked .
The boy held it out ; it was an old Robinson Crusoe , that classic of boyhood .
`` It 's splendid , '' he said .
`` Billy Martin lent it to me and I have to finish it today because Ned Josephs is to have it next and he 's in a hurry for it . ''
`` It 's a good while since I read Robinson Crusoe , '' said Turner reflectively .
`` But when I did it was on this very shore a little further along below the Miller place .
There was a Martin and a Josephs in the partnership then too -- the fathers , I dare say , of Billy and Ned .
What is your name , my boy ? ''
`` Paul Jameson , sir . ''
The name was a shock to Turner .
This boy a Jameson -- Neil Jameson 's son ?
Why , yes , he had Neil 's mouth .
Strange he had nothing else in common with the black-browed , black-haired Jamesons .
What business had a Jameson with those blue eyes and silvery-golden curls ?
It was flagrant forgery on Nature 's part to fashion such things and label them Jameson by a mouth .
Hated Neil Jameson 's son !
Robert Turner 's face grew so grey and hard that the boy involuntarily glanced upward to see if a cloud had crossed the sun .
`` Your father was Neil Jameson , I suppose ? ''
Turner said abruptly .
Paul nodded .
`` Yes , but he is dead .
He has been dead for eight years .
I do n't remember him . ''
`` Have you any brothers or sisters ? ''
`` I have a little sister a year younger than I am .
The other four are dead .
They died long ago .
I 'm the only boy Mother had .
Oh , I do so wish I was bigger and older !
If I was I could do something to save the place -- I 'm sure I could .
It is breaking Mother 's heart to have to leave it . ''
`` So she has to leave it , has she ? ''
said Turner grimly , with the old hatred stirring in his heart .
`` Yes .
There is a mortgage on it and we 're to be sold out very soon -- so the lawyers told us .
Mother has tried so hard to make the farm pay but she could n't .
I could if I was bigger -- I know I could .
If they would only wait a few years !
But there is no use hoping for that .
Mother cries all the time about it .
She has lived at the Cove farm for over thirty years and she says she ca n't live away from it now .
Elsie -- that 's my sister -- and I do all we can to cheer her up , but we ca n't do much .
Oh , if I was only a man ! ''
The lad shut his lips together -- how much his mouth was like his father 's -- and looked out seaward with troubled blue eyes .
Turner smiled another grim smile .
Oh , Neil Jameson , your old score was being paid now !
Yet something embittered the sweetness of revenge .
That boy 's face -- he could not hate it as he had accustomed himself to hate the memory of Neil Jameson and all connected with him .
`` What was your mother 's name before she married your father ? ''
he demanded abruptly .
`` Lisbeth Miller , '' answered the boy , still frowning seaward over his secret thoughts .
Turner started again .
Lisbeth Miller !
He might have known it .
What woman in all the world save Lisbeth Miller could have given her son those eyes and curls ?
So Lisbeth had married Neil Jameson -- little Lisbeth Miller , his schoolboy sweetheart .
He had forgotten her -- or thought he had ; certainly he had not thought of her for years .
But the memory of her came back now with a rush .
Little Lisbeth -- pretty little Lisbeth -- merry little Lisbeth !
How clearly he remembered her !
The old Miller place had adjoined his uncle 's farm .
Lisbeth and he had played together from babyhood .
How he had worshipped her !
When they were six years old they had solemnly promised to marry each other when they grew up , and Lisbeth had let him kiss her as earnest of their compact , made under a bloom-white apple tree in the Miller orchard .
Yet she would always blush furiously and deny it ever afterwards ; it made her angry to be reminded of it .
He saw himself going to school , carrying her books for her , the envied of all the boys .
He remembered how he had fought Tony Josephs because Tony had the presumption to bring her spice apples : he had thrashed him too , so soundly that from that time forth none of the schoolboys presumed to rival him in Lisbeth 's affections -- roguish little Lisbeth !
who grew prettier and saucier every year .
He recalled the keen competition of the old days when to be `` head of the class '' seemed the highest honour within mortal reach , and was striven after with might and main .
He had seldom attained to it because he would never `` go up past '' Lisbeth .
If she missed a word , he , Robert , missed it too , no matter how well he knew it .
It was sweet to be thought a dunce for her dear sake .
It was all the reward he asked to see her holding her place at the head of the class , her cheeks flushed pink and her eyes starry with her pride of position .
And how sweetly she would lecture him on the way home from school about learning his spellings better , and wind up her sermon with the frank avowal , uttered with deliciously downcast lids , that she liked him better than any of the other boys after all , even if he could n't spell as well as they could .
Nothing of success that he had won since had ever thrilled him as that admission of little Lisbeth 's !
She had been such a sympathetic little sweetheart too , never weary of listening to his dreams and ambitions , his plans for the future .
She had always assured him that she knew he would succeed .
Well , he had succeeded -- and now one of the uses he was going to make of his success was to turn Lisbeth and her children out of their home by way of squaring matters with a dead man !
Lisbeth had been away from home on a long visit to an aunt when he had left Chiswick .
She was growing up and the childish intimacy was fading .
Perhaps , under other circumstances , it might have ripened into fruit , but he had gone away and forgotten her ; the world had claimed him ; he had lost all active remembrance of Lisbeth and , before this late return to Chiswick , he had not even known if she were living .
And she was Neil Jameson 's widow !
He was silent for a long time , while the waves purred about the base of the big red sandstone rock and the boy returned to his Crusoe .
Finally Robert Turner roused himself from his reverie .
`` I used to know your mother long ago when she was a little girl , '' he said .
`` I wonder if she remembers me .
Ask her when you go home if she remembers Bobby Turner . ''
`` Wo n't you come up to the house and see her , sir ? ''
asked Paul politely .
`` Mother is always glad to see her old friends . ''
`` No , I have n't time today . ''
Robert Turner was not going to tell Neil Jameson 's son that he did not care to look for the little Lisbeth of long ago in Neil Jameson 's widow .
The name spoiled her for him , just as the Jameson mouth spoiled her son for him .
`` But you may tell her something else .
The mortgage will not be foreclosed .
I was the power behind the lawyers , but I did not know that the present owner of the Cove farm was my little playmate , Lisbeth Miller .
You and she shall have all the time you want .
Tell her Bobby Turner does this in return for what she gave him under the big sweeting apple tree on her sixth birthday .
I think she will remember and understand .
As for you , Paul , be a good boy and good to your mother .
I hope you 'll succeed in your ambition of making the farm pay when you are old enough to take it in hand .
At any rate , you 'll not be disturbed in your possession of it . ''
`` Oh , sir !
oh , sir ! ''
stammered Paul in an agony of embarrassed gratitude and delight .
`` Oh , it seems too good to be true .
Do you really mean that we 're not to be sold out ?
Oh , wo n't you come and tell Mother yourself ?
She 'll be so happy -- so grateful .
Do come and let her thank you . ''
`` Not today .
I have n't time .
Give her my message , that 's all .
There , run ; the sooner she gets the news the better . ''
Turner watched the boy as he bounded away , until the headland hid him from sight .
`` There goes my revenge -- and a fine bit of property eminently suited for a summer residence -- all for a bit of old , rusty sentiment , '' he said with a shrug .
`` I did n't suppose I was capable of such a mood .
But then -- little Lisbeth .
There never was a sweeter girl .
I 'm glad I did n't go with the boy to see her .
She 's an old woman now -- and Neil Jameson 's widow .
I prefer to keep my old memories of her undisturbed -- little Lisbeth of the silvery-golden curls and the roguish blue eyes .
Little Lisbeth of the old time !
I 'm glad to be able to have done you the small service of securing your home to you .
It is my thanks to you for the friendship and affection you gave my lonely boyhood -- my tribute to the memory of my first sweetheart . ''
He walked away with a smile , whose amusement presently softened to an expression that would have amazed his business cronies .
Later on he hummed the air of an old love song as he climbed the steep spruce road to Tom 's .
The Fillmore Elderberries `` I expected as much , '' said Timothy Robinson .
His tone brought the blood into Ellis Duncan 's face .
The lad opened his lips quickly , as if for an angry retort , but as quickly closed them again with a set firmness oddly like Timothy Robinson 's own .
`` When I heard that lazy , worthless father of yours was dead , I expected you and your mother would be looking to me for help , '' Timothy Robinson went on harshly .
`` But you 're mistaken if you think I 'll give it .
You 've no claim on me , even if your father was my half-brother -- no claim at all .
And I 'm not noted for charity . ''
Timothy Robinson smiled grimly .
It was very true that he was far from being noted for charity .
His neighbours called him `` close '' and `` near . ''
Some even went so far as to call him `` a miserly skinflint . ''
But this was not true .
It was , however , undeniable that Timothy Robinson kept a tight clutch on his purse-strings , and although he sometimes gave liberally enough to any cause which really appealed to him , such causes were few and far between .
`` I am not asking for charity , Uncle Timothy , '' said Ellis quietly .
He passed over the slur at his father in silence , deeply as he felt it , for , alas , he knew that it was only too true .
`` I expect to support my mother by hard and honest work .
And I am not asking you for work on the ground of our relationship .
I heard you wanted a hired man , and I have come to you , as I should have gone to any other man about whom I had heard it , to ask you to hire me . ''
`` Yes , I do want a man , '' said Uncle Timothy drily .
`` A man -- not a half-grown boy of fourteen , not worth his salt .
I want somebody able and willing to work . ''
Again Ellis flushed deeply and again he controlled himself .
`` I am willing to work , Uncle Timothy , and I think you would find me able also if you would try me .
I 'd work for less than a man 's wages at first , of course . ''
`` You wo n't work for any sort of wages from me , '' interrupted Timothy Robinson decidedly .
`` I tell you plainly that I wo n't hire you .
You 're the wrong man 's son for that .
Your father was lazy and incompetent and , worst of all , untrustworthy .
I did try to help him once , and all I got was loss and ingratitude .
I want none of his kind around my place .
I do n't believe in you , so you may as well take yourself off , Ellis .
I 've no more time to waste . ''
Ellis took himself off , his ears tingling .
As he walked homeward his thoughts were very bitter .
All Uncle Timothy had said about his father was true , and Ellis realized what a count it was against him in his efforts to obtain employment .
Nobody wanted to be bothered with `` Old Sam Duncan 's son , '' though nobody had been so brutally outspoken as his Uncle Timothy .
Sam Duncan and Timothy Robinson had been half-brothers .
Sam , the older , had been the son of Mrs. Robinson 's former marriage .
Never were two lads more dissimilar .
Sam was a lazy , shiftless fellow , deserving all the hard things that came to be said of him .
He would not work and nobody could depend on him , but he was a handsome lad with rather taking ways in his youth , and at first people had liked him better than the close , blunt , industrious Timothy .
Their mother had died in their childhood , but Mr. Robinson had been fond of Sam and the boy had a good home .
When he was twenty-two and Timothy eighteen , Mr. Robinson had died very suddenly , leaving no will .
Everything he possessed went to Timothy .
Sam immediately left .
He said he would not stay there to be `` bossed '' by Timothy .
He rented a little house in the village , married a girl `` far too good for him , '' and started in to support himself and his wife by days ' work .
He had lounged , borrowed , and shirked through life .
Once Timothy Robinson , perhaps moved by pity for Sam 's wife and baby , had hired him for a year at better wages than most hired men received in Dalrymple .
Sam idled through a month of it , then got offended and left in the middle of haying .
Timothy Robinson washed his hands of him after that .
When Ellis was fourteen Sam Duncan died , after a lingering illness of a year .
During this time the family were kept by the charity of pitying neighbours , for Ellis could not be spared from attendance on his father to make any attempt at earning money .
Mrs. Duncan was a fragile little woman , worn out with her hard life , and not strong enough to wait on her husband alone .
When Sam Duncan was dead and buried , Ellis straightened his shoulders and took counsel with himself .
He must earn a livelihood for his mother and himself , and he must begin at once .
He was tall and strong for his age , and had a fairly good education , his mother having determinedly kept him at school when he had pleaded to be allowed to go to work .
He had always been a quiet fellow , and nobody in Dalrymple knew much about him .
But they knew all about his father , and nobody would hire Ellis unless he were willing to work for a pittance that would barely clothe him .
Ellis had not gone to his Uncle Timothy until he had lost all hope of getting a place elsewhere .
Now this hope too had gone .
It was nearly the end of June and everybody who wanted help had secured it .
Look where he would , Ellis could see no prospect of employment .
`` If I could only get a chance ! ''
he thought miserably .
`` I know I am not idle or lazy -- I know I can work -- if I could get a chance to prove it . ''
He was sitting on the fence of the Fillmore elderberry pasture as he said it , having taken a short cut across the fields .
This pasture was rather noted in Dalrymple .
Originally a mellow and fertile field , it had been almost ruined by a persistent , luxuriant growth of elderberry bushes .
Old Thomas Fillmore had at first tried to conquer them by mowing them down `` in the dark of the moon . ''
But the elderberries did not seem to mind either moon or mowing , and flourished alike in all the quarters .
For the past two years Old Thomas had given up the contest , and the elderberries had it all their own sweet way .
Thomas Fillmore , a bent old man with a shrewd , nutcracker face , came through the bushes while Ellis was sitting on the fence .
`` Howdy , Ellis .
Seen anything of my spotted calves ?
I 've been looking for 'em for over an hour . ''
`` No , I have n't seen any calves -- but a good many might be in this pasture without being visible to the naked eye , '' said Ellis , with a smile .
Old Thomas shook his head ruefully .
`` Them elders have been too many for me , '' he said .
`` Did you ever see a worse-looking place ?
You 'd hardly believe that twenty years ago there was n't a better piece of land in Dalrymple than this lot , would ye ?
Such grass as grew here ! ''
`` The soil must be as good as ever if anything had a chance to grow on it , '' said Ellis .
`` Could n't those elders be rooted out ? ''
`` It 'd be a back-breaking job , but I reckon it could be done if anyone had the muscle and patience and time to tackle it .
I have n't the first at my age , and my hired man has n't the last .
And nobody would do it for what I could afford to pay . ''
`` What will you give me if I undertake to clean the elders out of this field for you , Mr. Fillmore ? ''
asked Ellis quietly .
Old Thomas looked at him with a surprised face , which gradually reverted to its original shrewdness when he saw that Ellis was in earnest .
`` You must be hard up for a job , '' he said .
`` I am , '' was Ellis 's laconic answer .
`` Well , lem me see . ''
Old Thomas calculated carefully .
He never paid a cent more for anything than he could help , and was noted for hard bargaining .
`` I 'll give ye sixteen dollars if you clean out the whole field , '' he said at length .
Ellis looked at the pasture .
He knew something about cleaning out elderberry brush , and he also knew that sixteen dollars would be very poor pay for it .
Most of the elders were higher than a man 's head , with big roots , thicker than his wrist , running deep into the ground .
`` It 's worth more , Mr. Fillmore , '' he said .
`` Not to me , '' responded Old Thomas drily .
`` I 've plenty more land and I 'm an old fellow without any sons .
I ai n't going to pay out money for the benefit of some stranger who 'll come after me .
You can take it or leave it at sixteen dollars . ''
Ellis shrugged his shoulders .
He had no prospect of anything else , and sixteen dollars were better than nothing .
`` Very well , I 'll take it , '' he said .
`` Well , now , look here , '' said Old Thomas shrewdly , `` I 'll expect you to do the work thoroughly , young man .
Them roots ai n't to be cut off , remember ; they 'll have to be dug out .
And I 'll expect you to finish the job if you undertake it too , and not drop it halfway through if you get a chance for a better one . ''
`` I 'll finish with your elderberries before I leave them , '' promised Ellis .
* * * * * Ellis went to work the next day .
His first move was to chop down all the brush and cart it into heaps for burning .
This took two days and was comparatively easy work .
The third day Ellis tackled the roots .
By the end of the forenoon he had discovered just what cleaning out an elderberry pasture meant , but he set his teeth and resolutely persevered .
During the afternoon Timothy Robinson , whose farm adjoined the Fillmore place , wandered by and halted with a look of astonishment at the sight of Ellis , busily engaged in digging and tearing out huge , tough , stubborn elder roots .
The boy did not see his uncle , but worked away with a vim and vigour that were not lost on the latter .
`` He never got that muscle from Sam , '' reflected Timothy .
`` Sam would have fainted at the mere thought of stumping elders .
Perhaps I 've been mistaken in the boy .
Well , well , we 'll see if he holds out . ''
Ellis did hold out .
The elderberries tried to hold out too , but they were no match for the lad 's perseverance .
It was a hard piece of work , however , and Ellis never forgot it .
Week after week he toiled in the hot summer sun , digging , cutting , and dragging out roots .
The job seemed endless , and his progress each day was discouragingly slow .
He had expected to get through in a month , but he soon found it would take two .
Frequently Timothy Robinson wandered by and looked at the increasing pile of roots and the slowly extending stretch of cleared land .
But he never spoke to Ellis and made no comment on the matter to anybody .
One evening , when the field was about half done , Ellis went home more than usually tired .
It had been a very hot day .
Every bone and muscle in him ached .
He wondered dismally if he would ever get to the end of that wretched elderberry field .
When he reached home Jacob Green from Westdale was there .
Jacob lost no time in announcing his errand .
`` My hired boy 's broke his leg , and I must fill his place right off .
Somebody referred me to you .
Guess I 'll try you .
Twelve dollars a month , board , and lodging .
What say ? ''
For a moment Ellis 's face flushed with delight .
Twelve dollars a month and permanent employment !
Then he remembered his promise to Mr. Fillmore .
For a moment he struggled with the temptation .
Then he mastered it .
Perhaps the discipline of his many encounters with those elderberry roots helped him to do so .
`` I 'm sorry , Mr. Green , '' he said reluctantly .
`` I 'd like to go , but I ca n't .
I promised Mr. Fillmore that I 'd finish cleaning up his elderberry pasture when I 'd once begun it , and I sha n't be through for a month yet . ''
`` Well , I 'd see myself turning down a good offer for Old Tom Fillmore , '' said Jacob Green .
`` It is n't for Mr. Fillmore -- it 's for myself , '' said Ellis steadily .
`` I promised and I must keep my word . ''
Jacob drove away grumblingly .
On the road he met Timothy Robinson and stopped to relate his grievances .
* * * * * It must be admitted that there were times during the next month when Ellis was tempted to repent having refused Jacob Green 's offer .
But at the end of the month the work was done and the Fillmore elderberry pasture was an elderberry pasture no longer .
All that remained of the elders , root and branch , was piled into a huge heap ready for burning .
`` And I 'll come up and set fire to it when it 's dry enough , '' Ellis told Mr. Fillmore .
`` I claim the satisfaction of that . ''
`` You 've done the job thoroughly , '' said Old Thomas .
`` There 's your sixteen dollars , and every cent of it was earned , if ever money was , I 'll say that much for you .
There ai n't a lazy bone in your body .
If you ever want a recommendation just you come to me . ''
As Ellis passed Timothy Robinson 's place on the way home that worthy himself appeared , strolling down his lane .
`` Ah , Ellis , '' he said , speaking to his nephew for the first time since their interview two months before , `` so you 've finished with your job ? ''
`` Yes , sir . ''
`` Got your sixteen dollars , I suppose ?
It was worth four times that .
Old Tom cheated you .
You were foolish not to have gone to Green when you had the chance . ''
`` I 'd promised Mr. Fillmore to finish with his pasture , sir ! ''
`` Humph !
Well , what are you going to do now ? ''
`` I do n't know .
Harvest will be on next week .
I may get in somewhere as an extra hand for a spell . ''
`` Ellis , '' said his uncle abruptly , after a moment 's silence , `` I 'm going to discharge my man .
He 's no earthly good .
Will you take his place ?
I 'll give you fifteen dollars a month and found . ''
Ellis stared at Timothy Robinson .
`` I thought you told me that you had no place for my father 's son , '' he said slowly .
`` I 've changed my mind .
I 've seen how you went at that elderberry job .
Great snakes , there could n't be a better test for anybody than rooting out them things .
I know you can work .
When Jacob Green told me why you 'd refused his offer I knew you could be depended on .
You come to me and I 'll do well by you .
I 've no kith or kin of my own except you .
And look here , Ellis .
I 'm tired of hired housekeepers .
Will your mother come up and live with us and look after things a bit ?
I 've a good girl , and she wo n't have to work hard , but there must be somebody at the head of a household .
She must have a good headpiece -- for you have inherited good qualities from someone , and goodness knows it was n't from your father . ''
`` Uncle Timothy , '' said Ellis respectfully but firmly , `` I 'll accept your offer gratefully , and I am sure Mother will too .
But there is one thing I must say .
Perhaps my father deserves all you say of him -- but he is dead -- and if I come to you it must be with the understanding that nothing more is ever to be said against him . ''
Timothy Robinson smiled -- a queer , twisted smile that yet had a hint of affection and comprehension in it .
`` Very well , '' he said .
`` I 'll never cast his shortcomings up to you again .
Come to me -- and if I find you always as industrious and reliable as you 've proved yourself to be negotiating them elders , I 'll most likely forget that you ai n't my own son some of these days . ''
The Finished Story She always sat in a corner of the west veranda at the hotel , knitting something white and fluffy , or pink and fluffy , or pale blue and fluffy -- always fluffy , at least , and always dainty .
Shawls and scarfs and hoods the things were , I believe .
When she finished one she gave it to some girl and began another .
Every girl at Harbour Light that summer wore some distracting thing that had been fashioned by Miss Sylvia 's slim , tireless , white fingers .
She was old , with that beautiful , serene old age which is as beautiful in its way as youth .
Her girlhood and womanhood must have been very lovely to have ripened into such a beauty of sixty years .
It was a surprise to everyone who heard her called Miss Sylvia .
She looked so like a woman who ought to have stalwart , grown sons and dimpled little grandchildren .
For the first two days after the arrival at the hotel she sat in her corner alone .
There was always a circle of young people around her ; old folks and middle-aged people would have liked to join it , but Miss Sylvia , while she was gracious to all , let it be distinctly understood that her sympathies were with youth .
She sat among the boys and girls , young men and maidens , like a fine white queen .
Her dress was always the same and somewhat old-fashioned , but nothing else would have suited her half so well ; she wore a lace cap on her snowy hair and a heliotrope shawl over her black silk shoulders .
She knitted continually and talked a good deal , but listened more .
We sat around her at all hours of the day and told her everything .
When you were first introduced to her you called her Miss Stanleymain .
Her endurance of that was limited to twenty-four hours .
Then she begged you to call her Miss Sylvia , and as Miss Sylvia you spoke and thought of her forevermore .
Miss Sylvia liked us all , but I was her favourite .
She told us so frankly and let it be understood that when I was talking to her and her heliotrope shawl was allowed to slip under one arm it was a sign that we were not to be interrupted .
I was as vain of her favour as any lovelorn suitor whose lady had honoured him , not knowing , as I came to know later , the reason for it .
Although Miss Sylvia had an unlimited capacity for receiving confidences , she never gave any .
We were all sure that there must be some romance in her life , but our efforts to discover it were unsuccessful .
Miss Sylvia parried tentative questions so skilfully that we knew she had something to defend .
But one evening , when I had known her a month , as time is reckoned , and long years as affection and understanding are computed , she told me her story -- at least , what there was to tell of it .
The last chapter was missing .
We were sitting together on the veranda at sunset .
Most of the hotel people had gone for a harbour sail ; a few forlorn mortals prowled about the grounds and eyed our corner wistfully , but by the sign of the heliotrope shawl knew it was not for them .
I was reading one of my stories to Miss Sylvia .
In my own excuse I must allege that she tempted me to do it .
I did not go around with manuscripts under my arm , inflicting them on defenceless females .
But Miss Sylvia had discovered that I was a magazine scribbler , and moreover , that I had shut myself up in my room that very morning and perpetrated a short story .
Nothing would do but that I read it to her .
It was a rather sad little story .
The hero loved the heroine , and she loved him .
There was no reason why he should not love her , but there was a reason why he could not marry her .
When he found that he loved her he knew that he must go away .
But might he not , at least , tell her his love ?
Might he not , at least , find out for his consolation if she cared for him ?
There was a struggle ; he won , and went away without a word , believing it to be the more manly course .
When I began to read Miss Sylvia was knitting , a pale green something this time , of the tender hue of young leaves in May .
But after a little her knitting slipped unheeded to her lap and her hands folded idly above it .
It was the most subtle compliment I had ever received .
When I turned the last page of the manuscript and looked up , Miss Sylvia 's soft brown eyes were full of tears .
She lifted her hands , clasped them together and said in an agitated voice : `` Oh , no , no ; do n't let him go away without telling her -- just telling her .
Do n't let him do it ! ''
`` But , you see , Miss Sylvia , '' I explained , flattered beyond measure that my characters had seemed so real to her , `` that would spoil the story .
It would have no reason for existence then .
Its motif is simply his mastery over self .
He believes it to be the nobler course . ''
`` No , no , it was n't -- if he loved her he should have told her .
Think of her shame and humiliation -- she loved him , and he went without a word and she could never know he cared for her .
Oh , you must change it -- you must , indeed !
I can not bear to think of her suffering what I have suffered . ''
Miss Sylvia broke down and sobbed .
To appease her , I promised that I would remodel the story , although I knew that the doing so would leave it absolutely pointless .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad , '' said Miss Sylvia , her eyes shining through her tears .
`` You see , I know it would make her happier -- I know it .
I 'm going to tell you my poor little story to convince you .
But you -- you must not tell it to any of the others . ''
`` I am sorry you think the admonition necessary , '' I said reproachfully .
`` Oh , I do not , indeed I do not , '' she hastened to assure me .
`` I know I can trust you .
But it 's such a poor little story .
You must n't laugh at it -- it is all the romance I had .
Years ago -- forty years ago -- when I was a young girl of twenty , I -- learned to care very much for somebody .
I met him at a summer resort like this .
I was there with my aunt and he was there with his mother , who was delicate .
We saw a great deal of each other for a little while .
He was -- oh , he was like no other man I had ever seen .
You remind me of him somehow .
That is partly why I like you so much .
I noticed the resemblance the first time I saw you .
I do n't know in just what it consists -- in your expression and the way you carry your head , I think .
He was not strong -- he coughed a good deal .
Then one day he went away -- suddenly .
I had thought he cared for me , but he never said so -- just went away .
Oh , the shame of it !
After a time I heard that he had been ordered to California for his health .
And he died out there the next spring .
My heart broke then , I never cared for anybody again -- I could n't .
I have always loved him .
But it would have been so much easier to bear if I had only known that he loved me -- oh , it would have made all the difference in the world .
And the sting of it has been there all these years .
I ca n't even permit myself the joy of dwelling on his memory because of the thought that perhaps he did not care . ''
`` He must have cared , '' I said warmly .
`` He could n't have helped it , Miss Sylvia . ''
Miss Sylvia shook her head with a sad smile .
`` I can not be sure .
Sometimes I think he did .
But then the doubt creeps back again .
I would give almost anything to know that he did -- to know that I have not lavished all the love of my life on a man who did not want it .
And I never can know , never -- I can hope and almost believe , but I can never know .
Oh , you do n't understand -- a man could n't fully understand what my pain has been over it .
You see now why I want you to change the story .
I am sorry for that poor girl , but if you only let her know that he really loves her she will not mind all the rest so very much ; she will be able to bear the pain of even life-long separation if she only knows . ''
Miss Sylvia picked up her knitting and went away .
As for me , I thought savagely of the dead man she loved and called him a cad , or at best , a fool .
Next day Miss Sylvia was her serene , smiling self once more , and she did not again make any reference to what she had told me .
A fortnight later she returned home and I went my way back to the world .
During the following winter I wrote several letters to Miss Sylvia and received replies from her .
Her letters were very like herself .
When I sent her the third-rate magazine containing my story -- nothing but a third-rate magazine would take it in its rewritten form -- she wrote to say that she was so glad that I had let the poor girl know .
Early in April I received a letter from an aunt of mine in the country , saying that she intended to sell her place and come to the city to live .
She asked me to go out to Sweetwater for a few weeks and assist her in the business of settling up the estate and disposing of such things as she did not wish to take with her .
When I arrived at Sweetwater I found it moist and chill with the sunny moisture and teasing chill of our Canadian springs .
They are long and fickle and reluctant , these springs of ours , but , oh , the unnamable charm of them !
There was something even in the red buds of the maples at Sweetwater and in the long , smoking stretches of hillside fields that sent a thrill through my veins , finer and subtler than any given by old wine .
A week after my arrival , when we had got the larger affairs pretty well straightened out , Aunt Mary suggested that I had better overhaul Uncle Alan 's room .
`` The things there have never been meddled with since he died , '' she said .
`` In particular , there 's an old trunk full of his letters and his papers .
It was brought home from California after his death .
I 've never examined them .
I do n't suppose there is anything of any importance among them .
But I 'm not going to carry all that old rubbish to town .
So I wish you would look over them and see if there is anything that should be kept .
The rest may be burned . ''
I felt no particular interest in the task .
My Uncle Alan Blair was a mere name to me .
He was my mother 's eldest brother and had died years before I was born .
I had heard that he had been very clever and that great things had been expected of him .
But I anticipated no pleasure from exploring musty old letters and papers of forty neglected years .
I went up to Uncle Alan 's room at dusk that night .
We had been having a day of warm spring rain , but it had cleared away and the bare maple boughs outside the window were strung with glistening drops .
The room looked to the north and was always dim by reason of the close-growing Sweetwater pines .
A gap had been cut through them to the northwest , and in it I had a glimpse of the sea Uncle Alan had loved , and above it a wondrous sunset sky fleeced over with little clouds , pale and pink and golden and green , that suddenly reminded me of Miss Sylvia and her fluffy knitting .
It was with the thought of her in my mind that I lighted a lamp and began the task of grubbing into Uncle Alan 's trunkful of papers .
Most of these were bundles of yellowed letters , of no present interest , from his family and college friends .
There were several college theses and essays , and a lot of loose miscellania pertaining to boyish school days .
I went through the collection rapidly , until at the bottom of the trunk , I came to a small book bound in dark-green leather .
It proved to be a sort of journal , and I began to glance over it with a languid interest .
It had been begun in the spring after he had graduated from college .
Although suspected only by himself , the disease which was to end his life had already fastened upon him .
The entries were those of a doomed man , who , feeling the curse fall on him like a frost , blighting all the fair hopes and promises of life , seeks some help and consolation in the outward self-communing of a journal .
There was nothing morbid , nothing unmanly in the record .
As I read , I found myself liking Uncle Alan , wishing that he might have lived and been my friend .
His mother had not been well that summer and the doctor ordered her to the seashore .
Alan accompanied her .
Here occurred a hiatus in the journal .
No leaves had been torn out , but a quire or so of them had apparently become loosened from the threads that held them in place .
I found them later on in the trunk , but at the time I passed to the next page .
It began abruptly : This girl is the sweetest thing that God ever made .
I had not known a woman could be so fair and sweet .
Her beauty awes me , the purity of her soul shines so clearly through it like an illuminating lamp .
I love her with all my power of loving and I am thankful that it is so .
It would have been hard to die without having known love .
I am glad that it has come to me , even if its price is unspeakable bitterness .
A man has not lived for nothing who has known and loved Sylvia Stanleymain .
I must not seek her love -- that is denied me .
If I were well and strong I should win it ; yes , I believe I could win it , and nothing in the world would prevent me from trying , but , as things are , it would be the part of a coward to try .
Yet I can not resist the delight of being with her , of talking to her , of watching her wonderful face .
She is in my thoughts day and night , she dwells in my dreams .
O , Sylvia , I love you , my sweet !
A week later there was another entry : July Seventeenth .
I am afraid .
To-day I met Sylvia 's eyes .
In them was a look which at first stirred my heart to its deeps with tumultuous delight , and then I remembered .
I must spare her that suffering , at whatever cost to myself .
I must not let myself dwell on the dangerous sweetness of the thought that her heart is turning to me .
What would be the crowning joy to another man could be only added sorrow to me .
Then : July Eighteenth .
This morning I took the train to the city .
I was determined to know the worst once for all .
The time had come when I must .
My doctor at home had put me off with vague hopes and perhapses .
So I went to a noted physician in the city .
I told him I wanted the whole truth -- I made him tell it .
Stripped of all softening verbiage it is this : I have perhaps eight months or a year to live -- no more !
I had expected it , although not quite so soon .
Yet the certainty was none the less bitter .
But this is no time for self-pity .
It is of Sylvia I must think now .
I shall go away at once , before the sweet fancy which is possibly budding in her virgin heart shall have bloomed into a flower that might poison some of her fair years .
July Nineteenth .
It is over .
I said good-bye to her to-day before others , for I dared not trust myself to see her alone .
She looked hurt and startled , as if someone had struck her .
But she will soon forget , even if I have not been mistaken in the reading of her eyes .
As for me , the bitterness of death is already over in that parting .
All that now remains is to play the man to the end .
From further entries in the journal I learned that Alan Blair had returned to Sweetwater and later on had been ordered to California .
The entries during his sojourn there were few and far between .
In all of them he spoke of Sylvia .
Finally , after a long silence , he had written : I think the end is not far off now .
I am not sorry for my suffering has been great of late .
Last night I was easier .
I slept and dreamed that I saw Sylvia .
Once or twice I thought that I would arrange to have this book sent to her after my death .
But I have decided that it would be unwise .
It would only pain her , so I shall destroy it when I feel the time has come .
It is sunset in this wonderful summer land .
At home in Sweetwater it is only early spring as yet , with snow lingering along the edges of the woods .
The sunsets there will be creamy-yellow and pale red now .
If I could but see them once more !
And Sylvia -- There was a little blot where the pen had fallen .
Evidently the end had been nearer than Alan Blair had thought .
At least , there were no more entries , and the little green book had not been destroyed .
I was glad that it had not been ; and I felt glad that it was thus put in my power to write the last chapter of Miss Sylvia 's story for her .
As soon as I could leave Sweetwater I went to the city , three hundred miles away , where Miss Sylvia lived .
I found her in her library , in her black silk dress and heliotrope shawl , knitting up cream wool , for all the world as if she had just been transplanted from the veranda corner of Harbour Light .
`` My dear boy ! ''
she said .
`` Do you know why I have come ? ''
I asked .
`` I am vain enough to think it was because you wanted to see me , '' she smiled .
`` I did want to see you ; but I would have waited until summer if it had not been that I wished to bring you the missing chapter of your story , dear lady . ''
`` I -- I -- do n't understand , '' said Miss Sylvia , starting slightly .
`` I had an uncle , Alan Blair , who died forty years ago in California , '' I said quietly .
`` Recently I have had occasion to examine some of his papers .
I found a journal among them and I have brought it to you because I think that you have the best right to it . ''
I dropped the parcel in her lap .
She was silent with surprise and bewilderment .
`` And now , '' I added , `` I am going away .
You wo n't want to see me or anyone for a while after you have read this book .
But I will come up to see you to-morrow . ''
When I went the next day Miss Sylvia herself met me at the door .
She caught my hand and drew me into the hall .
Her eyes were softly radiant .
`` Oh , you have made me so happy ! ''
she said tremulously .
`` Oh , you can never know how happy !
Nothing hurts now -- nothing ever can hurt , because I know he did care . ''
She laid her face down on my shoulder , as a girl might have nestled to her lover , and I bent and kissed her for Uncle Alan .
The Garden of Spices Jims tried the door of the blue room .
Yes , it was locked .
He had hoped Aunt Augusta might have forgotten to lock it ; but when did Aunt Augusta forget anything ?
Except , perhaps , that little boys were not born grown-ups -- and that was something she never remembered .
To be sure , she was only a half-aunt .
Whole aunts probably had more convenient memories .
Jims turned and stood with his back against the door .
It was better that way ; he could not imagine things behind him then .
And the blue room was so big and dim that a dreadful number of things could be imagined in it .
All the windows were shuttered but one , and that one was so darkened by a big pine tree branching right across it that it did not let in much light .
Jims looked very small and lost and lonely as he shrank back against the door -- so small and lonely that one might have thought that even the sternest of half-aunts should have thought twice before shutting him up in that room and telling him he must stay there the whole afternoon instead of going out for a promised ride .
Jims hated being shut up alone -- especially in the blue room .
Its bigness and dimness and silence filled his sensitive little soul with vague horror .
Sometimes he became almost sick with fear in it .
To do Aunt Augusta justice , she never suspected this .
If she had she would not have decreed this particular punishment , because she knew Jims was delicate and must not be subjected to any great physical or mental strain .
That was why she shut him up instead of whipping him .
But how was she to know it ?
Aunt Augusta was one of those people who never know anything unless it is told them in plain language and then hammered into their heads .
There was no one to tell her but Jims , and Jims would have died the death before he would have told Aunt Augusta , with her cold , spectacled eyes and thin , smileless mouth , that he was desperately frightened when he was shut in the blue room .
So he was always shut in it for punishment ; and the punishments came very often , for Jims was always doing things that Aunt Augusta considered naughty .
At first , this time , Jims did not feel quite so frightened as usual because he was very angry .
As he put it , he was very mad at Aunt Augusta .
He had n't meant to spill his pudding over the floor and the tablecloth and his clothes ; and how such a little bit of pudding -- Aunt Augusta was mean with desserts -- could ever have spread itself over so much territory Jims could not understand .
But he had made a terrible mess and Aunt Augusta had been very angry and had said he must be cured of such carelessness .
She said he must spend the afternoon in the blue room instead of going for a ride with Mrs. Loring in her new car .
Jims was bitterly disappointed .
If Uncle Walter had been home Jims would have appealed to him -- for when Uncle Walter could be really wakened up to a realization of his small nephew 's presence in his home , he was very kind and indulgent .
But it was so hard to waken him up that Jims seldom attempted it .
He liked Uncle Walter , but as far as being acquainted with him went he might as well have been the inhabitant of a star in the Milky Way .
Jims was just a lonely , solitary little creature , and sometimes he felt so friendless that his eyes smarted , and several sobs had to be swallowed .
There were no sobs just now , though -- Jims was still too angry .
It was n't fair .
It was so seldom he got a car ride .
Uncle Walter was always too busy , attending to sick children all over the town , to take him .
It was only once in a blue moon Mrs. Loring asked him to go out with her .
But she always ended up with ice cream or a movie , and to-day Jims had had strong hopes that both were on the programme .
`` I hate Aunt Augusta , '' he said aloud ; and then the sound of his voice in that huge , still room scared him so that he only thought the rest .
`` I wo n't have any fun -- and she wo n't feed my gobbler , either . ''
Jims had shrieked `` Feed my gobbler , '' to the old servant as he had been hauled upstairs .
But he did n't think Nancy Jane had heard him , and nobody , not even Jims , could imagine Aunt Augusta feeding the gobbler .
It was always a wonder to him that she ate , herself .
It seemed really too human a thing for her to do .
`` I wish I had spilled that pudding on purpose , '' Jims said vindictively , and with the saying his anger evaporated -- Jims never could stay angry long -- and left him merely a scared little fellow , with velvety , nut-brown eyes full of fear that should have no place in a child 's eyes .
He looked so small and helpless as he crouched against the door that one might have wondered if even Aunt Augusta would not have relented had she seen him .
How that window at the far end of the room rattled !
It sounded terribly as if somebody -- or something -- were trying to get in .
Jims looked desperately at the unshuttered window .
He must get to it ; once there , he could curl up in the window seat , his back to the wall , and forget the shadows by looking out into the sunshine and loveliness of the garden over the wall .
Jims would have likely have been found dead of fright in that blue room some time had it not been for the garden over the wall .
But to get to the window Jims must cross the room and pass by the bed .
Jims held that bed in special dread .
It was the oldest fashioned thing in the old-fashioned , old-furnitured house .
It was high and rigid , and hung with gloomy blue curtains .
Anything might jump out of such a bed .
Jims gave a gasp and ran madly across the room .
He reached the window and flung himself upon the seat .
With a sigh of relief he curled down in the corner .
Outside , over the high brick wall , was a world where his imagination could roam , though his slender little body was pent a prisoner in the blue room .
Jims had loved that garden from his first sight of it .
He called it the Garden of Spices and wove all sorts of yarns in fancy -- yarns gay and tragic -- about it .
He had only known it for a few weeks .
Before that , they had lived in a much smaller house away at the other side of the town .
Then Uncle Walter 's uncle -- who had brought him up just as he was bringing up Jims -- had died , and they had all come to live in Uncle Walter 's old home .
Somehow , Jims had an idea that Uncle Walter was n't very glad to come back there .
But he had to , according to great-uncle 's will .
Jims himself did n't mind much .
He liked the smaller rooms in their former home better , but the Garden of Spices made up for all .
It was such a beautiful spot .
Just inside the wall was a row of aspen poplars that always talked in silvery whispers and shook their dainty , heart-shaped leaves at him .
Beyond them , under scattered pines , was a rockery where ferns and wild things grew .
It was almost as good as a bit of woods -- and Jims loved the woods , though he scarcely ever saw them .
Then , past the pines , were roses just breaking into June bloom -- roses in such profusion as Jims had n't known existed , with dear little paths twisting about among the bushes .
It seemed to be a garden where no frost could blight or rough wind blow .
When rain fell it must fall very gently .
Past the roses one saw a green lawn , sprinkled over now with the white ghosts of dandelions , and dotted with ornamental trees .
The trees grew so thickly that they almost hid the house to which the garden pertained .
It was a large one of grey-black stone , with stacks of huge chimneys .
