Oh , I am so happy , Uncle Paul ! ''
He smiled at her and put his arm over her shoulder .
Together they walked up the golden arcade to tell the others .
That night Charlotte and Ellen cried with happiness as they talked it over in the twilight .
`` How beautiful ! ''
murmured Charlotte softly .
`` We shall not lose Worth after all .
Ellen , I could not have borne it to see that girl go utterly out of our lives again . ''
`` I always hoped and believed that Elizabeth 's child would somehow bring us all together again , '' said Ellen happily .
Freda 's Adopted Grave North Point , where Freda lived , was the bleakest settlement in the world .
Even its inhabitants , who loved it , had to admit that .
The northeast winds swept whistling up the bay and blew rawly over the long hill that sloped down to it , blighting everything that was in their way .
Only the sturdy firs and spruces could hold their own against it .
So there were no orchards or groves or flower gardens in North Point .
Just over the hill , in a sheltered southwest valley , was the North Point church with the graveyard behind it , and this graveyard was the most beautiful spot in North Point or near it .
The North Point folk loved flowers .
They could not have them about their homes , so they had them in their graveyard .
It was a matter of pride with each family to keep the separate plot neatly trimmed and weeded and adorned with beautiful blossoms .
It was one of the unwritten laws of the little community that on some selected day in May everybody would repair to the graveyard to plant , trim and clip .
It was not an unpleasant duty , even to those whose sorrow was fresh .
It seemed as if they were still doing something for the friends who had gone when they made their earthly resting places beautiful .
As for the children , they looked forward to `` Graveyard Day '' as a very delightful anniversary , and it divided its spring honours with the amount of the herring catch .
`` Tomorrow is Graveyard Day , '' said Minnie Hutchinson at school recess , when all the little girls were sitting on the fence .
`` Ai n't I glad !
I 've got the loveliest big white rosebush to plant by Grandma Hutchinson 's grave .
Uncle Robert sent it out from town . ''
`` My mother has ten tuberoses to set out , '' said Nan Gray proudly .
`` We 're going to plant a row of lilies right around our plot , '' said Katie Morris .
Every little girl had some boast to make , that is , every little girl but Freda .
Freda sat in a corner all by herself and felt miserably outside of everything .
She had no part or lot in Graveyard Day .
`` Are you going to plant anything , Freda ? ''
asked Nan , with a wink at the others .
Freda shook her head mutely .
`` Freda ca n't plant anything , '' said Winnie Bell cruelly , although she did not mean to be cruel .
`` She has n't got a grave . ''
Just then Freda felt as if her gravelessness were a positive disgrace and crime , as if not to have an interest in a single grave in North Point cemetery branded you as an outcast forever and ever .
It very nearly did in North Point .
The other little girls pitied Freda , but at the same time they rather looked down upon her for it with the complacency of those who had been born into a good heritage of family graves and had an undisputed right to celebrate Graveyard Day .
Freda felt that her cup of wretchedness was full .
She sat miserably on the fence while the other girls ran off to play , and she walked home alone at night .
It seemed to her that she could not bear it any longer .
Freda was ten years old .
Four years ago Mrs. Wilson had taken her from the orphan asylum in town .
Mrs. Wilson lived just this side of the hill from the graveyard , and everybody in North Point called her a `` crank . ''
They pitied any child she took , they said .
It would be worked to death and treated like a slave .
At first they tried to pump Freda concerning Mrs. Wilson 's treatment of her , but Freda was not to be pumped .
She was a quiet little mite , with big , wistful dark eyes that had a disconcerting fashion of looking the gossips out of countenance .
But if Freda had been disposed to complain , the North Point people would have found out that they had been only too correct in their predictions .
`` Mrs. Wilson , '' Freda said timidly that night , `` why have n't we got a grave ? ''
Mrs. Wilson averred that such a question gave her the `` creeps . ''
`` You ought to be very thankful that we have n't , '' she said severely .
`` That Graveyard Day is a heathenish custom , anyhow .
They make a regular picnic of it , and it makes me sick to hear those school girls chattering about what they mean to plant , each one trying to outblow the other .
If I had a grave there , I would n't make a flower garden of it ! ''
Freda did not go to the graveyard the next day , although it was a holiday .
But in the evening , when everybody had gone home , she crept over the hill and through the beech grove to see what had been done .
The plots were all very neat and prettily set out with plants and bulbs .
Some perennials were already in bud .
The grave of Katie Morris ' great-uncle , who had been dead for forty years , was covered with blossoming purple pansies .
Every grave , no matter how small or old , had its share of promise -- every grave except one .
Freda came across it with a feeling of surprise .
It was away down in the lower corner where there were no plots .
It was shut off from the others by a growth of young poplars and was sunken and overgrown with blueberry shrubs .
There was no headstone , and it looked dismally neglected .
Freda felt a sympathy for it .
She had no grave , and this grave had nobody to tend it or care for it .
When she went home she asked Mrs. Wilson whose it was .
`` Humph ! ''
said Mrs. Wilson .
`` If you have so much spare time lying round loose , you 'd better put it into your sewing instead of prowling about graveyards .
Do you expect me to work my fingers to the bone making clothes for you ?
I wish I 'd left you in the asylum .
That grave is Jordan Slade 's , I suppose .
He died twenty years ago , and a worthless , drunken scamp he was .
He served a term in the penitentiary for breaking into Andrew Messervey 's store , and after it he had the face to come back to North Point .
But respectable people would have nothing to do with him , and he went to the dogs altogether -- had to be buried on charity when he died .
He has n't any relations here .
There was a sister , a little girl of ten , who used to live with the Cogswells over at East Point .
After Jord died , some rich folks saw her and was so struck with her good looks that they took her away with them .
I do n't know what become of her , and I do n't care .
Go and bring the cows up . ''
When Freda went to bed that night her mind was made up .
She would adopt Jordan Slade 's grave .
Thereafter , Freda spent her few precious spare-time moments in the graveyard .
She clipped the blueberry shrubs and long , tangled grasses from the grave with a pair of rusty old shears that blistered her little brown hands badly .
She brought ferns from the woods to plant about it .
She begged a root of heliotrope from Nan Gray , a clump of day lilies from Katie Morris , a rosebush slip from Nellie Bell , some pansy seed from old Mrs. Bennett , and a geranium shoot from Minnie Hutchinson 's big sister .
She planted , weeded and watered faithfully , and her efforts were rewarded .
`` Her '' grave soon looked as nice as any in the graveyard .
Nobody but Freda knew about it .
The poplar growth concealed the corner from sight , and everybody had quite forgotten poor , disreputable Jordan Slade 's grave .
At least , it seemed as if everybody had .
But one evening , when Freda slipped down to the graveyard with a little can of water and rounded the corner of the poplars , she saw a lady standing by the grave -- a strange lady dressed in black , with the loveliest face Freda had ever seen , and tears in her eyes .
The lady gave a little start when she saw Freda with her can of water .
`` Can you tell me who has been looking after this grave ? ''
she said .
`` It -- it was I , '' faltered Freda , wondering if the lady would be angry with her .
`` Pleas 'm , it was I , but I did n't mean any harm .
All the other little girls had a grave , and I had n't any , so I just adopted this one . ''
`` Did you know whose it was ? ''
asked the lady gently .
`` Yes 'm -- Jordan Slade 's .
Mrs. Wilson told me . ''
`` Jordan Slade was my brother , '' said the lady .
`` He went sadly astray , but he was not all bad .
He was weak and too easily influenced .
But whatever his faults , he was good and kind -- oh !
so good and kind -- to me when I was a child .
I loved him with all my heart .
It has always been my wish to come back and visit his grave , but I have never been able to come , my home has been so far away .
I expected to find it neglected .
I can not tell you how pleased and touched I am to find it kept so beautifully .
Thank you over and over again , my dear child ! ''
`` Then you 're not cross , ma'am ? ''
said Freda eagerly .
`` And I may go on looking after it , may I ?
Oh , it just seems as if I could n't bear not to ! ''
`` You may look after it as long as you want to , my dear .
I will help you , too .
I am to be at East Point all summer .
This will be our grave -- yours and mine . ''
That summer was a wonderful one for Freda .
She had found a firm friend in Mrs. Halliday .
The latter was a wealthy woman .
Her husband had died a short time previously and she had no children .
When she went away in the fall , Freda went with her `` to be her own little girl for always . ''
Mrs. Wilson consented grudgingly to give Freda up , although she grumbled a great deal about ingratitude .
Before they went they paid a farewell visit to their grave .
Mrs. Halliday had arranged with some of the North Point people to keep it well attended to , but Freda cried at leaving it .
`` Do n't feel badly about it , dear , '' comforted Mrs. Halliday .
`` We are coming back every summer to see it .
It will always be our grave . ''
Freda slipped her hand into Mrs. Halliday 's and smiled up at her .
`` I 'd never have found you , Aunty , if it had n't been for this grave , '' she said happily .
`` I 'm so glad I adopted it . ''
How Don Was Saved Will Barrie went whistling down the lane of the Locksley farm , took a short cut over a field of clover aftermath and through a sloping orchard where the trees were laden with apples , and emerged into the farmhouse yard where Curtis Locksley was sitting on a pile of logs , idly whittling at a stick .
`` You look as if you had a corner in time , Curt , '' said Will .
`` I call that luck , for I want you to go chestnutting up to Grier 's Hill with me .
I met old Tom Grier on the road yesterday , and he told me I might go any day .
Nice old man , Tom Grier . ''
`` Good ! ''
said Curtis heartily , as he sprang up .
`` If I have n't exactly a corner in time , I have a day off , at least .
Uncle does n't need me today .
Wait till I whistle for Don .
May as well take him with us . ''
Curtis whistled accordingly , but Don , his handsome Newfoundland dog , did not appear .
After calling and whistling about the yard and barns for several minutes , Curtis turned away disappointedly .
`` He ca n't be anywhere around .
It is very strange .
Don never used to go away from home without me , but lately he has been missing several times , and twice last week he was n't here in the morning and did n't turn up until midday . ''
`` I 'd keep him shut up until I broke him of the habit of playing truant , if I were you , '' said Will , as they turned into the lane .
`` Don hates to be shut up , howls all the time so mournfully that I ca n't stand it , '' responded Curtis .
`` Well , '' said Will , hesitatingly , `` maybe that would be better after all than letting him stray away with other dogs who may teach him bad habits .
I saw Don myself one evening last week ambling down the Harbour road with that big brown dog of Sam Ventnor 's .
Ventnor 's dog is beginning to have a bad reputation , you know .
There have been several sheep worried lately , and -- '' `` Don would n't touch a sheep ! ''
interrupted Curtis hotly .
`` I daresay not , not yet .
But Ventnor 's dog is under suspicion , and if Don runs with him he 'll learn the trick sure as preaching .
The farmers are growling a good bit already , and if they hear of Don and Ventnor 's dog going about in company , they 'll put it on them both .
Better keep Don shut up awhile , let him howl as he likes . ''
`` I believe I will , '' said Curtis soberly .
`` I do n't want Don to fall under suspicion of sheep-worrying , though I 'm sure he would never do it .
Anyhow , I do n't want him to run with Ventnor 's dog .
I 'll chain him up in the barn when I go home .
I could n't stand it if anything happened to Don .
After you , he 's the only chum I 've got -- and he 's a good one . ''
Will agreed .
He was almost as fond of Don as Curtis was .
But he did not feel so sure that the dog would not worry a sheep .
Will knew that Don was suspected already , but he did not like to tell Curtis so .
And of course there was as yet no positive proof -- merely mutterings and suggestions among the Bayside farmers who had lost sheep and were anxious to locate their slayer .
There were many other dogs in Bayside and the surrounding districts who were just as likely to be the guilty animals , and Will hoped that if Don were shut up for a time , suspicion might be averted from him , especially if the worryings still went on .
He had felt a little doubtful about hinting the truth to Curtis , who was a high-spirited lad and always resented any slur cast upon Don much more bitterly than if it were meant for himself .
But he knew that Curtis would take it better from him than from the other Bayside boys , one or the other of whom would be sure soon to cast something up to Curtis about his dog .
Will felt decidedly relieved to find that Curtis took his advice in the spirit in which it was offered .
`` Who have lost sheep lately ? ''
queried Curtis , as they left the main road and struck into a wood path through the ranks of beeches on Tom Grier 's land .
`` Nearly everybody on the Hollow farms , '' answered Will .
`` Until last week nobody on the Hill farms had lost any .
But Tuesday night old Paul Stockton had six fine sheep killed in his upland pasture behind the fir woods .
He is furious about it , I believe , and vows he 'll find out what dog did it and have him shot . ''
Curtis looked grave .
Paul Stockton 's farm was only about a quarter of a mile from the Locksley homestead , and he knew that Paul had an old family grudge against his Uncle Arnold , which included his nephew and all belonging to him .
Moreover , Curtis remembered with a sinking heart that Wednesday morning had been one of the mornings upon which Don was missing .
`` But I do n't care ! ''
he thought miserably .
`` I know Don did n't kill those sheep . ''
`` Talking of old Paul , '' said Will , who thought it advisable to turn the conversation , `` reminds me that they are getting anxious at the Harbour about George Finley 's schooner , the Amy Reade .
She was due three days ago and there 's no sign of her yet .
And there have been two bad gales since she left Morro .
Oscar Stockton is on board of her , you know , and his father is worried about him .
There are five other men on her , all from the Harbour , and their folks down there are pretty wild about the schooner . ''
Nothing more was said about the sheep , and soon , in the pleasures of chestnutting , Curtis forgot his anxiety .
Old Tom Grier had called to the boys as they passed his house to come back and have dinner there when the time came .
This they did , and it was late in the afternoon when Curtis , with his bag of chestnuts over his shoulder , walked into the Locksley yard .
His uncle was standing before the open barn doors , talking to an elderly , grizzled man with a thin , shrewd face .
Curtis 's heart sank as he recognized old Paul Stockton .
What could have brought him over ?
`` Curtis , '' called his uncle , `` come here . ''
As Curtis crossed the yard , Don came bounding down the slope from the house to meet him .
He put his hand on the dog 's big head and the two of them walked slowly to the barn .
Old Paul included them both in a vindictive scowl .
`` Curtis , '' said his uncle gravely , `` here 's a bad business .
Mr. Stockton tells me that your dog has been worrying his sheep . ''
`` It 's a -- '' began Curtis angrily .
Then he checked himself and went on more calmly .
`` That ca n't be so , Mr. Stockton .
My dog would not harm anything . ''
`` He killed or helped to kill six of the finest sheep in my flock ! ''
retorted old Paul .
`` What proof have you of it ? ''
demanded Curtis , trying to keep his anger within bounds .
`` Abner Peck saw your dog and Ventnor 's running together through my sheep pasture at sundown on Tuesday evening , '' answered old Paul .
`` Wednesday morning I found this in the corner of the pasture where the sheep were worried .
Your uncle admits that it was tied around your dog 's neck on Tuesday . ''
And old Paul held out triumphantly a faded red ribbon .
Curtis recognized it at a glance .
It was the ribbon his little cousin , Lena , had tied around Don 's neck Tuesday afternoon .
He remembered how they had laughed at the effect of that frivolous red collar and bow on Don 's massive body .
`` I 'm sure Don is n't guilty ! ''
he cried passionately .
Mr. Locksley shook his head .
`` I 'm afraid he is , Curtis .
The case looks very black against him , and sheep-stealing is a serious offence . ''
`` The dog must be shot , '' said old Paul decidedly .
`` I leave the matter in your hands , Mr. Locksley .
I 've got enough proof to convict the dog and , if you do n't have him killed , I 'll make you pay for the sheep he worried . ''
As old Paul strode away , Curtis looked beseechingly at his uncle .
`` Don must n't be shot , Uncle ! ''
he said desperately .
`` I 'll chain him up all the time . ''
`` And have him howling night and day as if we had a brood of banshees about the place ? ''
said Mr. Locksley sarcastically .
He was a stern man with little sentiment in his nature and no understanding whatever of Curtis 's affection for Don .
The Bayside people said that Arnold Locksley had always been very severe with his nephew .
`` No , no , Curtis , you must look at the matter sensibly .
The dog is a nuisance and must be shot .
You ca n't keep him shut up forever , and , if he has once learned the trick of sheep-worrying , he will never forget it .
You can get another dog if you must have one .
I 'll get Charles Pippey to come and shoot Don tomorrow .
No sulking now , Curtis .
You are too big a boy for that .
Tie the dog up for the night and then go and put the calves in .
There is a storm coming .
The wind is blowing hard from the northeast now . ''
His uncle walked away , leaving the boy white and miserable in the yard .
He looked at Don , who sat on his haunches and returned his gaze frankly and open-heartedly .
He did not look like a guilty dog .
Could it be possible that he had really worried those sheep ?
`` I 'll never believe it of you , old fellow ! ''
Curtis said , as he led the dog into a corner of the carriage house and tied him up there .
Then he flung himself down on a pile of sacks beside him and buried his face in Don 's curly black fur .
The boy felt sullen , rebellious and wretched .
He lay there until dark , thinking his own bitter thoughts and listening to the rapidly increasing gale .
Finally he got up and flung off after the calves , with Don 's melancholy howls at finding himself deserted ringing in his ears .
He 'll be quiet enough tomorrow night , thought Curtis wretchedly , as he went upstairs to bed after housing the calves .
For a long while he lay awake , but finally dropped into a heavy slumber which lasted until his aunt called him for milking .
The wind was blowing more furiously than ever .
Up over the fields came the roar and crash of the surges on the outside shore .
The Harbour to the east of Bayside was rough and stormy .
They were just rising from breakfast when Will Barrie burst into the kitchen .
`` The Amy Reade is ashore on Gleeson 's rocks ! ''
he shouted .
`` Struck there at daylight this morning !
Come on , Curt ! ''
Curtis sprang for his cap , his uncle following suit more deliberately .
As the two boys ran through the yard , Curtis heard Don howling .
`` I 'll take him with me ! ''
he muttered .
`` Wait a minute , Will . ''
The Harbour road was thronged with people hurrying to the outside shore , for the news of the Amy Readers disaster had spread rapidly .
As the boys , with the rejoicing Don at their heels , pelted along , Sam Morrow overtook them in a cart and told them to jump in .
Sam had already been down to the shore and had gone back to tell his father .
As they jolted along , he screamed information at them over the shriek of the gale .
`` Bad business , this !
She 's pounding on a reef ` bout a quarter of a mile out .
They 're sure she 's going to break up -- old tub , you know -- leaky -- rotten .
The sea 's tremenjus high , and the surfs going dean over her .
There ca n't be no boat launched for hours yet -- they 'll all be drowned .
Old Paul 's down there like a madman -- offering everything he 's got to the man who 'll save Oscar , but it ca n't be done . ''
By this time they had reached the shore , which was black with excited people .
Out on Gleeson 's Reef the ill-fated little schooner was visible amid the flying spray .
A grizzled old Harbour fisherman , to whom Sam shouted a question , shook his head .
`` No , ca n't do nothin ' !
No boat c 'd live in that surf f ' r a moment .
The schooner 'll go to pieces mighty soon , I 'm feared .
It 's turrible !
turrible !
to stan ' by an ' watch yer neighbours drown like this ! ''
Curtis and Will elbowed their way down to the water 's edge .
The relatives of the crew were all there in various stages of despair , but old Paul Stockton seemed like a man demented .
He ran up and down the beach , crying and praying .
His only son was on the Amy Reade , and he could do nothing to save him !
`` What are they doing ? ''
asked Will of Martin Clark .
`` Trying to get a line ashore by throwing out a small rope with a stick tied to it , '' answered Martin .
`` It 's young Stockton that 's trying now .
But it is n't any use .
The cross-currents on that reef are too powerful . ''
`` Why , Don will bring that line ashore ! ''
exclaimed Curtis .
`` Here , Don !
Don , I say ! ''
The dog bounded back along the shore with a quick bark .
Curtis grasped him by the collar and pointed to the stick which young Stockton had just hurled again into the water .
Don , with another bark of comprehension , dashed into the sea .
The onlookers , grasping the situation , gave a cheer and then relapsed into silence .
Only the shriek of the gale and the crash of the waves could be heard as they watched the magnificent dog swimming out through the breakers , his big black head now rising on the crest of a wave and now disappearing in the hollow behind it .
When Don finally reached the tossing stick , grasped it in his mouth and turned shoreward , another great shout went up from the beach .
A woman behind Curtis , whose husband was on the schooner , dropped on her knees on the pebbles , sobbing and thanking God .
Curtis himself felt the stinging tears start to his eyes .
When Don reached the shore he dropped the stick at Curtis 's feet and gave himself a tremendous shake .
Curtis caught at the stick , while a dozen men and women threw themselves bodily on Don , hugging him and kissing his wet fur like distracted creatures .
Old Paul Stockton was among them .
Over his shoulder Don 's big black head looked up , his eyes asking as plainly as speech what all this fuss was about .
Meanwhile some of the men had already pulled a big hawser ashore and made it fast .
In half an hour the crew of the Amy Reade were safe on shore , chilled and dripping .
Before they were hurried away to warmth and shelter , old Paul Stockton caught Curtis 's hand .
The tears were running freely down his hard , old face .
`` Tell your uncle he is not to lay a finger on that dog ! ''
he said .
`` He never killed a sheep of mine -- he could n't !
And if he did I do n't care !
He 's welcome to kill them all , if nothing but mutton 'll serve his turn . ''
Curtis walked home with a glad heart .
Mr. Locksley heard old Paul 's message with a smile .
He , too , had been touched by Don 's splendid feat .
`` Well , Curtis , I 'm very glad that it has turned old Paul in his favour .
But we must shut Don up for a week or so , no matter how hard he takes it .
You can see that for yourself .
After all , he might have worried the sheep .
And , anyway , he must be broken of his intimacy with Ventnor 's dog . ''
Curtis acknowledged the justice of this and poor Don was tied up again .
His captivity was not long , however , for Ventnor 's dog was soon shot .
When Don was released , Curtis had an anxious time for a week or two .
But no more sheep were worried , and Don 's innocence was triumphantly established .
As for old Paul Stockton , it seemed as if he could not do enough for Curtis and Don .
His ancient grudge against the Locksleys was completely forgotten , and from that date he was a firm friend of Curtis .
In regard to Don , old Paul would say : `` Why , there never was such a dog before , sir , never !
He just talks with his eyes , that dog does .
And if you 'd just ` a ' seen him swimming out to that schooner !
Bones ?
Yes , sir !
Every time that dog comes here he 's to get the best bones we 've got for him -- and more 'n bones , too .
That dog 's a hero , sir , that 's what he is ! ''
Miss Madeline 's Proposal `` Auntie , I have something to tell you , '' said Lina , with a blush that made her look more than ever like one of the climbing roses that nodded about the windows of the `` old Churchill place , '' as it was always called in Lower Wentworth .
Miss Madeline , sitting in the low rocker by the parlour window , seemed like the presiding genius of the place .
Everything about her matched her sweet old-fashionedness , from the crown of her soft brown hair , dressed in the style of her long ago girlhood , to the toes of her daintily slippered feet .
Outside of the old Churchill place , in the busy streets of the up-to-date little town , Miss Madeline might have seemed out of harmony with her surroundings .
But here , in this dim room , faintly scented with whiffs from the rose garden outside , she was like a note in some sweet , perfect melody of old time .
Lina , sitting on a little stool at Miss Madeline 's feet with her curly head in her aunt 's lap , was as pretty as Miss Madeline herself had once been .
She was also very happy , and her happiness seemed to envelop her as in an atmosphere and lend her a new radiance and charm .
Miss Madeline loved her pretty niece very dearly and patted the curly head tenderly with her slender white hands .
`` What is it , my dear ? ''
`` I 'm -- I 'm engaged , '' whispered Lina , hiding her face in Miss Madeline 's flowered muslin lap .
`` Engaged ! ''
Miss Madeline 's tone was one of surprise and awe .
She blushed as she said the word as deeply as Lina had done .
Then she went on , with a little quiver of excitement in her voice , `` To whom , my dear ? ''
`` Oh , you do n't know him , Auntie , but I hope you will soon .
His name is Ralph Wylde .
Is n't it pretty ?
I met him last winter , and we became very good friends .
But we had a quarrel before I came down here and , oh , I have been so unhappy over it .
Three weeks ago he wrote me and begged my pardon -- so nice of him , because I was really all to blame , you know .
And he said he loved me and -- all that , you know . ''
`` No , I do n't know , '' said Miss Madeline gently .
`` But -- but -- I can imagine . ''
`` Oh , I was so happy .
I wrote back and I had this letter from him today .
He is coming down tomorrow .
You 'll be glad to see him , wo n't you , Auntie ? ''
`` Oh , yes , my dear , and I am glad for your sake -- very glad .
You are sure you love him ? ''
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Lina , with a little laugh , as if wondering how anyone could doubt it .
Presently , Miss Madeline said in a shy voice , `` Lina , did -- did you ever receive a proposal of marriage from anybody besides Mr. Wylde ? ''
Lina laughed roguishly .
`` Why , yes , Auntie , ever so many .
A dozen , at least . ''
`` Oh , my dear ! ''
cried Miss Madeline in a slightly shocked tone .
`` But I did , really .
Sometimes it was horrid and sometimes it was funny .
It all depended on the man .
Dear me , how red and uncomfortable most of them looked -- all but the fifth .
He was so cool and business like that he almost surprised me into accepting him . ''
`` And -- and what did you feel like , Lina ? ''
`` Oh , frightened , mostly -- but I always wanted to laugh too .
You must know how it is yourself , Auntie .
What did you feel like when somebody proposed to you ? ''
Miss Madeline flushed from chin to brow .
`` Oh , Lina , '' she faltered as if she were confessing something very disgraceful , yet to which she was impelled by her strict truthfulness , `` I -- I -- never had a proposal in my life -- not one . ''
Lina opened her big brown eyes in amazement .
`` Why , Aunt Madeline !
And you so pretty !
What was the reason ? ''
`` I 've often wondered , '' said Miss Madeline faintly .
`` I was pretty , as you say -- it 's so long ago I can say that now .
And I had many gentlemen friends .
But nobody ever wanted to marry me .
I sometimes wish that -- that I could have had just one proposal .
Not that I wanted to marry , you know , I do not mean that , but just so that it would n't have seemed that I was different from anybody else .
It is very foolish of me to wish it , I know , and even wicked -- for if I had not cared for the person it would have made him very unhappy .
But then , he would have forgotten and I would have remembered .
It would always have been something to be a little proud of . ''
`` Yes , '' said Lina absently ; her thoughts had gone back to Ralph .
That evening a letter was left at the front door of the old Churchill place .
It was addressed in a scholarly hand to Miss Madeline Churchill , and Amelia Kent took it in .
Amelia had been Miss Madeline 's `` help '' for years and had grown grey in her service .
In Amelia 's loyal eyes Miss Madeline was still young and beautiful ; she never doubted that the letter was for her mistress .
Nobody else there was ever addressed as `` Miss Madeline . ''
Miss Madeline was sitting by the window of her own room watching the sunset through the elms and reading her evening portion of Thomas à Kempis .
She never liked to be disturbed when so employed but she read her letter after Amelia had gone out .
When she came to a certain paragraph , she turned very pale and Thomas à Kempis fell to the floor unheeded .
When she had finished the letter she laid it on her lap , clasped her hands , and said , `` Oh , oh , oh , '' in a faint , tremulous voice .
Her cheeks were very pink and her eyes very bright .
She did not even pick up Thomas à Kempis but went to the door and called Lina .
`` What is it , Auntie ? ''
asked Lina curiously , noticing the signs of unusual excitement about Miss Madeline .
Miss Madeline held out her letter with a trembling hand .
`` Lina , dear , this is a letter from the Rev. Cecil Thorne .
It -- it is -- a proposal of marriage .
I feel terribly upset .
How very strange that it should come so soon after our talk this morning !
I want you to read it !
Perhaps I ought not to show it to anyone -- but I would like you to see it . ''
Lina took the letter and read it through .
It was unmistakably a proposal of marriage and was , moreover , a very charming epistle of its kind , albeit a little stiff and old-fashioned .
`` How funny ! ''
said Lina when she came to the end .
`` Funny ! ''
exclaimed Miss Madeline , with a trace of indignation in her gentle voice .
`` Oh , I did n't mean that the letter was funny , '' Lina hastened to explain , `` only that , as you said , it is odd to think of it coming so soon after our talk . ''
But this was a little fib on Lina 's part .
She had thought that the letter or , rather , the fact that it had been written to Miss Madeline , funny .
The Rev. Cecil Thorne was Miss Madeline 's pastor .
He was a handsome , scholarly man of middle age , and Lina had seen a good deal of him during her summer in Lower Wentworth .
She had taught the infant class in Sunday School and sometimes she had thought that the minister was in love with her .
But she must have been mistaken , she reflected ; it must have been her aunt after all , and the Rev. Cecil Thorne 's shyly displayed interest in her must have been purely professional .
`` What a goose I was to be afraid he was in love with me ! ''
she thought .
Aloud she said , `` He says he will call tomorrow evening to receive your answer . ''
`` And , oh , what can I say to him ? ''
murmured Miss Madeline in dismay .
She wished she had a little of Lina 's experience .
`` You are going to -- you will accept him , wo n't you ? ''
asked Lina curiously .
`` Oh , my dear , no ! ''
cried Miss Madeline almost vehemently .
`` I could n't think of such a thing .
I am very sorry ; do you think he will feel badly ? ''
`` Judging from his letter I feel sure he will , '' said Lina decidedly .
Miss Madeline sighed .
`` Oh , dear me !
It is very unpleasant .
But of course I must refuse him .
What a beautiful letter he writes too .
I feel very much disturbed by this . ''
Miss Madeline picked up Thomas à Kempis , smoothed him out repentantly , and placed the letter between his leaves .
* * * * * When the Rev. Cecil Thorne called at the old Churchill place next evening at sunset and asked for Miss Madeline Churchill , Amelia showed him into the parlour and went to call her mistress .
Mr. Thorne sat down by the window that looked out on the lawn .
His heart gave a bound as he caught a glimpse of an airy white muslin among the trees and a ripple of distant laughter .
The next minute Lina appeared , strolling down the secluded path that curved about the birches .
A young man was walking beside her with his arm around her .
They crossed the green square before the house and disappeared in the rose garden .
Mr. Thorne leaned back in his chair and put his hand over his eyes .
He felt that he had received his answer , and it was a very bitter moment for him .
He had hardly dared hope that this bright , beautiful child could care for him , yet the realization came home to him none the less keenly .
When Miss Madeline , paling and flushing by turns , came shyly in he had recovered his self-control sufficiently to be able to say `` good evening '' in a calm voice .
Miss Madeline sat down opposite to him .
At that moment she was devoutly thankful that she had never had any other proposal to refuse .
It was a dreadful ordeal .
If he would only help her out !
But he did not speak and every moment of silence made it worse .
`` I -- received your letter , Mr. Thorne , '' she faltered at last , looking distressfully down at the floor .
`` My letter ! ''
Mr. Thorne turned towards her .
In her agitation Miss Madeline did not notice the surprise in his face and tone .
`` Yes , '' she said , gaining a little courage since the ice was broken .
`` It -- it -- was a very great surprise to me .
I never thought you -- you cared for me as -- as you said .
And I am very sorry because -- because I can not return your affection .
And so , of course , I can not marry you . ''
Mr. Thorne put his hand over his eyes again .
He understood now that there had been some mistake and that Miss Madeline had received the letter he had written to her niece .
Well , it did not matter -- the appearance of the young man in the garden had settled that .
Would he tell Miss Madeline of her mistake ?
No , it would only humiliate her and it made no difference , since she had refused him .
`` I suppose it is of no use to ask you to reconsider your decision ? ''
he said .
`` Oh , no , '' cried Miss Madeline almost aghast .
She was afraid he might ask it after all .
`` Not in the least use .
I am sorry -- so very sorry -- but I could not answer differently .
We -- I hope -- this will make no difference in our friendly relations , Mr. Thorne ? ''
`` Not at all , '' said Mr. Thorne gravely .
`` We will try to forget that it has happened . ''
He bowed sadly and went out .
Miss Madeline watched him guiltily as he walked across the lawn .
He looked heart-broken .
How dreadful it had been !
And Lina had refused twelve men !
How could she have lived through it ?
`` Perhaps one gets accustomed to doing it , '' reflected Miss Madeline .
`` But I am sure I never could . ''
`` Did Mr. Thorne feel very badly ? ''
whispered Lina that night .
`` I 'm afraid he did , '' confessed Miss Madeline sorrowfully .
`` He looked so pale and sad , Lina , that my heart ached for him .
I am very thankful that I have never had any other proposals to decline .
It is a very unpleasant experience .
But , '' she added , with a little tinge of satisfaction in her sweet voice , `` I am glad I had one .
It -- it has made me feel more like other people , you know , dear . ''
Miss Sally 's Company `` How beautiful ! ''
said Mary Seymour delightedly , as they dismounted from their wheels on the crest of the hill .
`` Ida , who could have supposed that such a view would be our reward for climbing that long , tedious hill with its ruts and stones ?
Do n't you feel repaid ? ''
`` Yes , but I am dreadfully thirsty , '' said Ida , who was always practical and never as enthusiastic over anything as Mary was .
Yet she , too , felt a keen pleasure in the beauty of the scene before them .
Almost at their feet lay the sea , creaming and shimmering in the mellow sunshine .
Beyond , on either hand , stretched rugged brown cliffs and rocks , here running out to sea in misty purple headlands , there curving into bays and coves that seemed filled up with sunlight and glamour and pearly hazes ; a beautiful shore and , seemingly , a lonely one .
The only house visible from where the girls stood was a tiny grey one , with odd , low eaves and big chimneys , that stood down in the little valley on their right , where the cliffs broke away to let a brook run out to sea and formed a small cove , on whose sandy shore the waves lapped and crooned within a stone 's throw of the house .
On either side of the cove a headland made out to sea , curving around to enclose the sparkling water as in a cup .
`` What a picturesque spot ! ''
said Mary .
`` But what a lonely one ! ''
protested Ida .
`` Why , there is n't another house in sight .
I wonder who lives in it .
Anyway , I 'm going down to ask them for a drink of water . ''
`` I 'd like to ask for a square meal , too , '' said Mary , laughing .
`` I am discovering that I am hungry .
Fine scenery is very satisfying to the soul , to be sure , but it does n't still the cravings of the inner girl .
And we 've wheeled ten miles this afternoon .
I 'm getting hungrier every minute . ''
They reached the little grey house by way of a sloping , grassy lane .
Everything about it was very neat and trim .
In front a white-washed paling shut in the garden which , sheltered as it was by the house , was ablaze with poppies and hollyhocks and geraniums .
A path , bordered by big white clam shells , led through it to the front door , whose steps were slabs of smooth red sandstone from the beach .
`` No children here , certainly , '' whispered Ida .
`` Every one of those clam shells is placed just so .
And this walk is swept every day .
No , we shall never dare to ask for anything to eat here .
They would be afraid of our scattering crumbs . ''
Ida lifted her hand to knock , but before she could do so , the door was thrown open and a breathless little lady appeared on the threshold .
She was very small , with an eager , delicately featured face and dark eyes twinkling behind gold-rimmed glasses .
She was dressed immaculately in an old-fashioned gown of grey silk with a white muslin fichu crossed over her shoulders , and her silvery hair fell on each side of her face in long , smooth curls that just touched her shoulders and bobbed and fluttered with her every motion ; behind , it was caught up in a knot on her head and surmounted by a tiny lace cap .
She looks as if she had just stepped out of a bandbox of last century , thought Mary .
`` Are you Cousin Abner 's girls ? ''
demanded the little lady eagerly .
There was such excitement and expectation in her face and voice that both the Seymour girls felt uncomfortably that they ought to be `` Cousin Abner 's girls . ''
`` No , '' said Mary reluctantly , `` we 're not .
We are only -- Martin Seymour 's girls . ''
All the light went out of the little lady 's face , as if some illuminating lamp had suddenly been quenched behind it .
She seemed fairly to droop under her disappointment .
As for the rest , the name of Martin Seymour evidently conveyed no especial meaning to her ears .
How could she know that he was a multi-millionaire who was popularly supposed to breakfast on railroads and lunch on small corporations , and that his daughters were girls whom all people delighted to honour ?
`` No , of course you are not Cousin Abner 's girls , '' she said sorrowfully .
`` I 'd have known you could n't be if I had just stopped to think .
Because you are dark and they would be fair , of course ; Cousin Abner and his wife were both fair .
But when I saw you coming down the lane -- I was peeking through the hall window upstairs , you know , I and Juliana -- I was sure you were Helen and Beatrice at last .
And I ca n't help wishing you were ! ''
`` I wish we were , too , since you expected them , '' said Mary , smiling .
`` But -- '' `` Oh , I was n't really expecting them , '' broke in the little lady .
`` Only I am always hoping that they will come .
They never have yet , but Trenton is n't so very far away , and it is so lonely here .
I just long for company -- I and Juliana -- and I thought I was going to have it today .
Cousin Abner came to see me once since I moved here and he said the girls would come , too , but that was six months ago and they have n't come yet .
But perhaps they will soon .
It is always something to look forward to , you know . ''
She talked in a sweet , chirpy voice like a bird 's .
There were pathetic notes in it , too , as the girls instinctively felt .
How very quaint and sweet and unworldly she was !
Mary found herself feeling indignant at Cousin Abner 's girls , whoever they were , for their neglect .
`` We are out for a spin on our wheels , '' said Ida , `` and we are very thirsty .
We thought perhaps you would be kind enough to give us a drink of water . ''
`` Oh , my dear , anything -- anything I have is at your service , '' said the little lady delightedly .
`` If you will come in , I will get you some lemonade . ''
`` I am afraid it is too much trouble , '' began Mary .
`` Oh , no , no , '' cried the little lady .
`` It is a pleasure .
I love doing things for people , I wish more of them would come to give me the chance .
I never have any company , and I do so long for it .
It 's very lonesome here at Golden Gate .
Oh , if you would only stay to tea with me , it would make me so happy .
I am all prepared .
I prepare every Saturday morning , in particular , so that if Cousin Abner 's girls did come , I would be all ready .
And when nobody comes , Juliana and I have to eat everything up ourselves .
And that is bad for us -- it gives Juliana indigestion .
If you would only stay ! ''
`` We will , '' agreed Ida promptly .
`` And we 're glad of the chance .
We are both terribly hungry , and it is very good of you to ask us . ''
`` Oh , indeed , it is n't !
It 's just selfishness in me , that 's what it is , pure selfishness !
I want company so much .
Come in , my dears , and I suppose I must introduce myself because you do n't know me , do you now ?
I 'm Miss Sally Temple , and this is Golden Gate Cottage .
Dear me , this is something like living .
You are special providences , that you are , indeed ! ''
She whisked them through a quaint little parlour , where everything was as dainty and neat and old-fashioned as herself , and into a spare bedroom beyond it , to put off their hats .
`` Now , just excuse me a minute while I run out and tell Juliana that we are going to have company to tea .
She will be so glad , Juliana will .
Make yourselves at home , my dears . ''
`` Is n't she delicious ? ''
said Mary , when Miss Sally had tripped out .
`` I 'd like to shake Cousin Abner 's girls .
This is what Dot Halliday would call an adventure , Ida . ''
`` Is n't it !
Miss Sally and this quaint old spot both seem like a chapter out of the novels our grandmothers cried over .
Look here , Mary , she is lonely and our visit seems like a treat to her .
Let us try to make it one .
Let 's just chum with her and tell her all about ourselves and our amusements and our dresses .
That sounds frivolous , but you know what I mean .
She 'll like it .
Let 's be company in real earnest for her . ''
When Miss Sally came back , she was attended by Juliana carrying a tray of lemonade glasses .
Juliana proved to be a diminutive lass of about fourteen whose cheerful , freckled face wore an expansive grin of pleasure .
Evidently Juliana was as fond of `` company '' as her mistress was .
Afterwards , the girls overheard a subdued colloquy between Miss Sally and Juliana out in the hall .
`` Go set the table , Juliana , and put on Grandmother Temple 's wedding china -- be sure you dust it carefully -- and the best tablecloth -- and be sure you get the crease straight -- and put some sweet peas in the centre -- and be sure they are fresh .
I want everything extra nice , Juliana . ''
`` Yes 'm , Miss Sally , I 'll see to it .
Is n't it great to have company , Miss Sally ? ''
whispered Juliana .
The Seymour girls long remembered that tea table and the delicacies with which it was heaped .
Privately , they did not wonder that Juliana had indigestion when she had to eat many such unaided .
Being hungry , they did full justice to Miss Sally 's good things , much to that little lady 's delight .
She told them all about herself .
She had lived at Golden Gate Cottage only a year .
`` Before that , I lived away down the country at Millbridge with a cousin .
My Uncle Ephraim owned Golden Gate Cottage , and when he died he left it to me and I came here to live .
It is a pretty place , is n't it ?
You see those two headlands out there ?
In the morning , when the sun rises , the water between them is just a sea of gold , and that is why Uncle Ephraim had a fancy to call his place Golden Gate .
I love it here .
It is so nice to have a home of my own .
I would be quite content if I had more company .
But I have you today , and perhaps Beatrice and Helen will come next week .
So I 've really a great deal to be thankful for . ''
`` What is your Cousin Abner 's other name ? ''
asked Mary , with a vague recollection of hearing of Beatrice and Helen -- somebody -- in Trenton .
`` Reed -- Abner Abimelech Reed , '' answered Miss Sally promptly .
`` A.A. Reed , he signs himself now .
He is very well-to-do , I am told , and he carries on business in town .
He was a very fine young man , my Cousin Abner .
I do n't know his wife . ''
Mary and Ida exchanged glances .
Beatrice and Helen Reed !
They knew them slightly as the daughters of a new-rich family who were hangers-on of the fashionable society in Trenton .
They were regarded as decidedly vulgar , and so far their efforts to gain an entry into the exclusive circle where the Seymours and their like revolved had not been very successful .
`` I 'm afraid Miss Sally will wait a long while before she sees Cousin Abner 's girls , '' said Mary , when they had gone back to the parlour and Miss Sally had excused herself to superintend the washing of Grandmother Temple 's wedding china .
`` They probably look on her as a poor relation to be ignored altogether ; whereas , if they were only like her , Trenton society would have made a place for them long ago . ''
The Seymour girls enjoyed that visit as much as Miss Sally did .
She was eager to hear all about their girlish lives and amusements .
They told her of their travels , of famous men and women they had seen , of parties they had attended , the dresses they wore , the little fads and hobbies of their set -- all jumbled up together and all listened to eagerly by Miss Sally and also by Juliana , who was permitted to sit on the stairs out in the hall and so gather in the crumbs of this intellectual feast .
`` Oh , you 've been such pleasant company , '' said Miss Sally when the girls went away .
Mary took the little lady 's hands in hers and looked affectionately down into her face .
`` Would you like it -- you and Juliana -- if we came out to see you often ?
And perhaps brought some of our friends with us ? ''
`` Oh , if you only would ! ''
breathed Miss Sally .
Mary laughed and , obeying a sudden impulse , bent and kissed Miss Sally 's cheek .
`` We 'll come then , '' she promised .
`` Please look upon us as your ` steady company ' henceforth . ''
The girls kept their word .
Thereafter , nearly every Saturday of the summer found them taking tea with Miss Sally at Golden Gate .
Sometimes they came alone ; sometimes they brought other girls .
It soon became a decided `` fad '' in their set to go to see Miss Sally .
Everybody who met her loved her at sight .
It was considered a special treat to be taken by the Seymours to Golden Gate .
As for Miss Sally , her cup of happiness was almost full .
She had `` company '' to her heart 's content and of the very kind she loved -- bright , merry , fun-loving girls who devoured her dainties with a frank zest that delighted her , filled the quaint old rooms with laughter and life , and chattered to her of all their plans and frolics and hopes .
There was just one little cloud on Miss Sally 's fair sky .
`` If only Cousin Abner 's girls would come ! ''
she once said wistfully to Mary .
`` Nobody can quite take the place of one 's own , you know .
My heart yearns after them . ''
Mary was very silent and thoughtful as she drove back to Trenton that night .
Two days afterwards , she went to Mrs. Gardiner 's lawn party .
The Reed girls were there .
They were tall , fair , handsome girls , somewhat too lavishly and pronouncedly dressed in expensive gowns and hats , and looking , as they felt , very much on the outside of things .
They brightened and bridled , however , when Mrs. Gardiner brought Mary Seymour up and introduced her .
If there was one thing on earth that the Reed girls longed for more than another it was to `` get in '' with the Seymour girls .
After Mary had chatted with them for a few minutes in a friendly way , she said , `` I think we have a mutual friend in Miss Sally Temple of Golden Gate , have n't we ?
I 'm sure I 've heard her speak of you . ''
The Reed girls flushed .
They did not care to have the rich Seymour girls know of their connection with that queer old cousin of their father 's who lived in that out-of-the-world spot up-country .
`` She is a distant cousin of ours , '' said Beatrice carelessly , `` but we 've never met her . ''
`` Oh , how much you have missed ! ''
said Mary frankly .
`` She is the sweetest and most charming little lady I have ever met , and I am proud to number her among my friends .
Golden Gate is such an idyllic little spot , too .
We go there so often that I fear Miss Sally will think we mean to outwear our welcome .
We hope to have her visit us in town this winter .
Well , good-by for now .
I 'll tell Miss Sally I 've met you .
She will be pleased to hear about you . ''
When Mary had gone , the Reed girls looked at each other .
`` I suppose we ought to have gone to see Cousin Sally before , '' said Beatrice .
`` Father said we ought to . ''
`` How on earth did the Seymours pick her up ? ''
said Helen .
`` Of course we must go and see her . ''
Go they did .
The very next day Miss Sally 's cup of happiness brimmed right over , for Cousin Abner 's girls came to Golden Gate at last .
They were very nice to her , too .
Indeed , in spite of a good deal of snobbishness and false views of life , they were good-hearted girls under it all ; and some plain common sense they had inherited from their father came to the surface and taught them to see that Miss Sally was a relative of whom anyone might be proud .
They succumbed to her charm , as the others had done , and thoroughly enjoyed their visit to Golden Gate .
They went away promising to come often again ; and I may say right here that they kept their promise , and a real friendship grew up between Miss Sally and `` Cousin Abner 's girls '' that was destined to work wonders for the latter , not only socially and mentally but spiritually as well , for it taught them that sincerity and honest kindliness of heart and manner are the best passports everywhere , and that pretence of any kind is a vulgarity not to be tolerated .
This took time , of course .
The Reed girls could not discard their snobbishness all at once .
But in the end it was pretty well taken out of them .
Miss Sally never dreamed of this or the need for it .
She loved Cousin Abner 's girls from the first and always admired them exceedingly .
`` And then it is so good to have your own folks coming as company , '' she told the Seymour girls .
`` Oh , I 'm just in the seventh heaven of happiness .
But , dearies , I think you will always be my favourites -- mine and Juliana 's .
I 've plenty of company now and it 's all thanks to you . ''
`` Oh , no , '' said Mary quickly .
`` Miss Sally , your company comes to you for just your own sake .
You 've made Golden Gate a veritable Mecca for us all .
You do n't know and you never will know how much good you have done us .
You are so good and true and sweet that we girls all feel as if we were bound to live up to you , do n't you see ?
And we all love you , Miss Sally . ''
`` I 'm so glad , '' breathed Miss Sally with shining eyes , `` and so is Juliana . ''
Mrs. March 's Revenge `` I declare , it is a real fall day , '' said Mrs. Stapp , dropping into a chair with a sigh of relief as Mrs. March ushered her into the cosy little sitting-room .
`` The wind would chill the marrow in your bones ; winter 'll be here before you know it . ''
`` That 's so , '' assented Mrs. March , bustling about to stir up the fire .
`` But I do n't know as I mind it at all .
Winter is real pleasant when it does come , but I must say , I do n't fancy these betwixt-and-between days much .
Sit up to the fire , Theodosia .
You look real blue . ''
`` I feel so too .
Lawful heart , but this is comfort .
This chimney-corner of yours , Anna , is the cosiest spot in the world . ''
`` When did you get home from Maitland ? ''
asked Mrs. March .
`` Did you have a pleasant time ?
And how did you leave Emily and the children ? ''
Mrs. Stapp took this trio of interrogations in calm detail .
`` I came home Saturday , '' she said , as she unrolled her knitting .
`` Nice wet day it was too !
And as for my visit , yes , I enjoyed myself pretty , well , not but what I worried over Peter 's rheumatism a good deal .
Emily is well , and the children ought to be , for such rampageous young ones I never saw !
Emily ca n't do no more with them than an old hen with a brood of ducks .
But , lawful heart , Anna , do n't mind about my little affairs !
The news Peter had for me about you when I got home fairly took my breath .
He came down to the garden gate to shout it before I was out of the wagon .
I could n't believe but what he was joking at first .
You should have seen Peter .
He had an old red shawl tied round his rheumatic shoulder , and he was waving his arms like a crazy man .
I declare , I thought the chimney was afire !
Theodosia , Theodosia ! '
he shouted .
` Anna March has had a fortune left her by her brother in Australy , and she 's bought the old Carroll place , and is going to move up there ! '
That was his salute when I got home .
I 'd have been over before this to hear all about it , but things were at such sixes and sevens in the house that I could n't go visiting until I 'd straightened them out a bit .
Peter 's real neat , as men go , but , lawful heart , such a mess as he makes of housekeeping !
I did n't know you had a brother living . ''
`` No more did I , Theodosia .
I thought , as everyone else did , that poor Charles was at the bottom of the sea forty years ago .
It 's that long since he ran away from home .
He had a quarrel with Father , and he was always dreadful high-spirited .
He went to sea , and we heard that he had sailed for England in the Helen Ray .
She was never heard of after , and we all supposed that my poor brother had perished with her .
And four weeks ago I got a letter from a firm of lawyers in Melbourne , Australia , saying that my brother , Charles Bennett , had died and left all his fortune to me .
I could n't believe it at first , but they sent me some things of his that he had when he left home , and there was an old picture of myself among them with my name written on it in my own hand , so then I knew there was no mistake .
But whether Charles did sail in the Helen Ray , or if he did , how he escaped from her and got to Australia , I do n't know , and it is n't likely I ever will . ''
`` Well , of all wonderful things ! ''
commented Mrs. Stapp .
`` I was glad to hear that I was heir to so much money , '' said Mrs. March firmly .
`` At first I felt as if it were awful of me to be glad when it came to me by my brother 's death .
But I mourned for poor Charles forty years ago , and I ca n't sense that he has only just died .
Not but what I 'd rather have seen him come home alive than have all the money in the world , but it has come about otherwise , and as the money is lawfully mine , I may as well feel pleased about it . ''
`` And you 've bought the Carroll place , '' said Mrs. Stapp , with the freedom of a privileged friend .
`` Whatever made you do it ?
I 'm sure you are as cosy here as need be , and nobody but yourself .
Is n't this house big enough for you ? ''
`` No , it is n't .
All my life I 've been hankering for a good , big , roomy house , and all my life I 've had to put up with little boxes of places , not big enough to turn round in .
I 've been contented , and made the best of what I had , but now that I can afford it , I mean to have a house that will suit me .
The Carroll house is just what I want , for all it is a little old-fashioned .
I 've always had a notion of that house , although I never expected to own it any more than the moon . ''
`` It 's a real handsome place , '' admitted Mrs. Stapp , `` but I expect it will need a lot of fixing up .
Nobody has lived in it for six years .
When are you going to move in ? ''
`` In about three weeks , if all goes well .
I 'm having it all painted and done over inside .
The outside can wait until the spring . ''
`` It 's queer how things come about , '' said Mrs. Stapp meditatively .
`` I guess old Mrs. Carroll never imagined her home was going to pass into other folks ' hands as it has .
When you and I were girls , and Louise Carroll was giving herself such airs over us , you did n't much expect to ever stand in her shoes , did you ?
Do you remember Lou ? ''
`` Yes , I do , '' said Mrs. March sharply .
A change came over her sonsy , smiling face .
It actually looked hard and revengeful , and a cruel light flickered in her dark brown eyes .
`` I 'll not forget Lou Carroll as long as I live .
She is the only person in this world I ever hated .
I suppose it is sinful to say it , but I hate her still , and always will . ''
`` I never liked her myself , '' admitted Mrs. Stapp .
`` She thought herself above us all .
Well , for that matter I suppose she was -- but she need n't have rubbed it in so . ''
`` Well , she might have been above me , '' said Mrs. March bitterly , `` but she was n't above twitting and snubbing me every chance she got .
She always had a spite at me from the time we were children together at school .
When we grew up it was worse .
I could n't begin to tell you all the times that girl insulted me .
But there was once in particular -- I 'll never forgive her for it .
I was at a party , and she was there too , and so was that young Trenham Manning , who was visiting the Ashleys .
Do you remember him , Dosia ?
He was a handsome young fellow , and Lou had a liking for him , so all the girls said .
But he never looked at her that night , and he kept by me the whole time .
It made Lou furious , and at last she came up to me with a sneer on her face , and her black eyes just snapping , and said , ` Miss Bennett , Mother told me to tell you to tell your ma that if that plain sewing is n't done by tomorrow night she 'll send for it and give it to somebody else ; if people engage to have work done by a certain time and do n't keep their word , they need n't expect to get it . '
Oh , how badly I felt !
Mother and I were poor , and had to work hard , but we had feelings just like other people , and to be insulted like that before Trenham Manning !
I just burst out crying then and there , and ran away and hid .
It was very silly of me , but I could n't help it .
That stings me yet .
If I was ever to get a chance to pay Lou Carroll out for that , I 'd take it without any compunction . ''
`` Oh , but that is unchristian ! ''
protested Mrs. Stapp feebly .
`` Perhaps so , but it 's the way I feel .
Old Parson Jones used to say that people were marbled good and bad pretty even , but that in everybody there were one or two streaks just pure wicked .
I guess Lou Carroll is my wicked streak .
I have n't seen or heard of her for years -- ever since she married that worthless Dency Baxter and went away .
She may be dead for all I know .
I do n't expect ever to have a chance to pay her out .
But mark what I say , Theodosia , if I ever have , I will . ''
Mrs. March snipped off her thread , as if she challenged the world .
Mrs. Stapp felt uncomfortable over the unusual display of feeling she had evoked , and hastened to change the subject .
In three weeks ' time Mrs. March was established in her new home , and the `` old Carroll house '' blossomed out into renewed splendour .
Theodosia Stapp , who had dropped in to see it , was in a rapture of admiration .
`` You have a lovely home now , Anna .
I used to think it fine enough in the Carrolls ' time , but it was n't as grand as this .
And that reminds me , I have something to tell you , but I do n't want you to get as excited as you did the last time I mentioned her name .
You remember the last day I was to see you we were talking of Lou Carroll ?
Well , next day I was downtown in a store , and who should sail in but Mrs. Joel Kent , from Oriental .
You know Mrs. Joel -- Sarah Chapple that was ?
She and her man keep a little hotel up at Oriental .
They 're not very well off .
She is a cousin of old Mrs. Carroll , but , lawful heart , the Carrolls did n't used to make much of the relationship !
Well , Mrs. Joel and I had a chat .
She told me all her troubles -- she always has lots of them .
Sarah was always of a grumbling turn , and she had a brand-new stock of them this time .
What do you think , Anna March ?
Lou Carroll -- or Mrs. Baxter , I suppose I should say -- is up there at Joel Kent 's at Oriental , dying of consumption ; leastwise , Mrs. Joel says she is . ''
`` Lou Carroll dying at Oriental ! ''
cried Mrs. March .
`` Yes .
She came there from goodness knows where , about a month ago -- might as well have dropped from the clouds , Mrs. Joel says , for all she expected of it .
Her husband is dead , and I guess he led her a life of it when he was alive , and she 's as poor as second skimmings .
She was aiming to come here , Mrs. Joel says , but when she got to Oriental she was n't fit to stir a step further , and the Kents had to keep her .
I gather from what Mrs. Joel said that she 's rather touched in her mind too , and has an awful hankering to get home here -- to this very house .
She appears to have the idea that it is hers , and all just the same as it used to be .
I guess she is a sight of trouble , and Mrs. Joel ai n't the woman to like that .
But there !
She has to work most awful hard , and I suppose a sick person does n't come handy in a hotel .
I guess you 've got your revenge , Anna , without lifting a finger to get it .
Think of Lou Carroll coming to that ! ''
The next day was cold and raw .
The ragged , bare trees in the old Carroll grounds shook and writhed in the gusts of wind .
Now and then a drifting scud of rain dashed across the windows .
Mrs. March looked out with a shiver , and turned thankfully to her own cosy fireside again .
Presently she thought she heard a low knock at the front door , and went to see .
As she opened it a savage swirl of damp wind rushed in , and the shrinking figure leaning against one of the fluted columns of the Grecian porch seemed to cower before its fury .
It was a woman who stood there , a woman whose emaciated face wore a piteous expression , as she lifted it to Mrs. March .
`` You do n't know me , of course , '' she said , with a feeble attempt at dignity .
`` I am Mrs. Baxter .
I -- I used to live here long ago .
I thought I 'd walk over today and see my old home . ''
A fit of coughing interrupted her words , and she trembled like a leaf .
`` Gracious me ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. March blankly .
`` You do n't mean to tell me that you have walked over from Oriental today -- and you a sick woman !
For pity 's sake , come in , quick .
And if you 're not wet to the skin ! ''
She fairly pulled her visitor into the hall , and led her to the sitting-room .
`` Sit down .
Take this big easy-chair right up to the fire -- so .
Let me take your bonnet and shawl .
I must run right out to tell Hannah to get you a hot drink . ''
`` You are very kind , '' whispered the other .
`` I do n't know you , but you look like a woman I used to know when I was a girl .
She was a Mrs. Bennett , and she had a daughter , Anna .
Do you know what became of her ?
I forget .
I forget everything now . ''
`` My name is March , '' said Mrs. March briefly , ignoring the question .
`` I do n't suppose you ever heard it before . ''
She wrapped her own warm shawl about the other woman 's thin shoulders .
Then she hastened to the kitchen and soon returned , carrying a tray of food and a steaming hot drink .
She wheeled a small table up to her visitor 's side and said , very kindly , `` Now , take a bite , my dear , and this raspberry vinegar will warm you right up .
It is a dreadful day for you to be out .
Why on earth did n't Joel Kent drive you over ? ''
`` They did n't know I was coming , '' whispered Mrs. Baxter anxiously .
`` I -- I ran away .
Sarah would n't have let me come if she had known .
But I wanted to come so much .
It is so nice to be home again . ''
Mrs. March watched her guest as she ate and drank .
It was plain enough that her mind , or rather her memory , was affected .
She did not realize that this was no longer her home .
At moments she seemed to fancy herself back in the past again .
Once or twice she called Mrs. March `` Mother . ''
Presently a sharp knock was heard at the hall door .
Mrs. March excused herself and went out .
In the porch stood Theodosia Stapp and a woman whom Mrs. March did not at first glance recognize -- a tall , aggressive-looking person , whose sharp black eyes darted in past Mrs. March and searched every corner of the hall before anyone had time to speak .
`` Lawful heart ! ''
puffed Mrs. Stapp , as she stepped in out of the biting wind .
`` I 'm right out of breath .
Mrs. March , allow me to introduce Mrs. Kent .
We 're looking for Mrs. Baxter .
She has run away , and we thought perhaps she came here .
Did she ? ''
`` She is in my sitting-room now , '' said Mrs. March quietly .
`` Did n't I say so ? ''
demanded Mrs. Kent , turning to Mrs. Stapp .
She spoke in a sharp , high-pitched tone that grated on Mrs. March 's nerves .
`` Does n't she beat all !
She slipped away this morning when I was busy in the kitchen .
And to think of her walking six miles over here in this wind !
I dunno how she did it .
I do n't believe she 's half as sick as she pretends .
Well , I 've got my wagon out here , Mrs. March , and I 'll be much obliged if you 'll tell her I 'm here to take her home .
I s ` pose we 'll have a fearful scene . ''
`` I do n't see that there is any call for a scene , '' said Mrs. March firmly .
`` The poor woman has just got here , and she thinks she has got home .
She might as well think so if it is of any comfort to her .
You 'd better leave her here . ''
Theodosia gave a stifled gasp of amazement , but Mrs. March went serenely on .
`` I 'll take care of the poor soul as long as she needs it -- and that will not be very long in my opinion , for if ever I saw death in a woman 's face , it is looking out of hers .
I 've plenty of time to look after her and make her comfortable . ''
Mrs. Joel Kent was voluble in her thanks .
It was evident that she was delighted to get the sick woman off her hands .
Mrs. March cut her short with an invitation to stay to tea , but Mrs. Kent declined .
`` I 've got to hurry home straight off and get the men 's suppers .
Such a scamper to have over that woman !
I 'm sure I 'm thankful you 're willing to let her stay , for she 'd never be contented anywhere else .
I 'll send over what few things she has tomorrow . ''
When Mrs. Kent had gone , Mrs. March and Mrs. Stapp looked at each other .
`` And so this is your revenge , Anna March ? ''
said the latter solemnly .
`` Do you remember what you said to me about her ? ''
`` Yes , I do , Theodosia , and I thought I meant every word of it .
But I guess my wicked streak ran out just when I needed it to depend on .
Besides , you see , I 've thought of Lou Carroll all these years as she was when I knew her -- handsome and saucy and proud .
But that poor creature in there is n't any more like the Lou Carroll I knew than you are -- not a mite .
The old Lou Carroll is dead already , and my spite is dead with her .
Will you come in and see her ? ''
`` Well , no , not just now .
She would n't know me , and Mrs. Joel says strangers kind of excite her -- a pretty bad place the hotel would be for her at that rate , I should think .
I must go and tell Peter about it , and I 'll send up some of my black currant jam for her . ''
When Mrs. Stapp had gone , Mrs. March went back to her guest .
Lou Baxter had fallen asleep with her head pillowed on the soft plush back of her chair .
Mrs. March looked at the hollow , hectic cheeks and the changed , wasted features , and her bright brown eyes softened with tears .
`` Poor Lou , '' she said softly , as she brushed a loose lock of grey hair back from the sleeping woman 's brow .
Nan Nan was polishing the tumblers at the pantry window , outside of which John Osborne was leaning among the vines .
His arms were folded on the sill and his straw hat was pushed back from his flushed , eager face as he watched Nan 's deft movements .
Beyond them , old Abe Stewart was mowing the grass in the orchard with a scythe and casting uneasy glances at the pair .
Old Abe did not approve of John Osborne as a suitor for Nan .
John was poor ; and old Abe , although he was the wealthiest farmer in Granville , was bent on Nan 's making a good match .
He looked upon John Osborne as a mere fortune-hunter , and it was a thorn in the flesh to see him talking to Nan while he , old Abe , was too far away to hear what they were saying .
He had a good deal of confidence in Nan , she was a sensible , level-headed girl .
Still , there was no knowing what freak even a sensible girl might take into her head , and Nan was so determined when she did make up her mind .
She was his own daughter in that .
However , old Abe need not have worried himself .
It could not be said that Nan was helping John Osborne on in his wooing at all .
Instead , she was teasing and snubbing him by turns .
Nan was very pretty .
Moreover , Nan was well aware of the fact .
She knew that the way her dark hair curled around her ears and forehead was bewitching ; that her complexion was the envy of every girl in Granville ; that her long lashes had a trick of drooping over very soft , dark eyes in a fashion calculated to turn masculine heads hopelessly .
John Osborne knew all this too , to his cost .
He had called to ask Nan to go with him to the Lone Lake picnic the next day .
At this request Nan dropped her eyes and murmured that she was sorry , but he was too late -- she had promised to go with somebody else .
There was no need of Nan 's making such a mystery about it .
The somebody else was her only cousin , Ned Bennett , who had had a quarrel with his own girl ; the latter lived at Lone Lake , and Ned had coaxed Nan to go over with him and try her hand at patching matters up between him and his offended lady-love .
And Nan , who was an amiable creature and tender-hearted where anybody 's lover except her own was concerned , had agreed to go .
But John Osborne at once jumped to the conclusion -- as Nan had very possibly meant him to do -- that the mysterious somebody was Bryan Lee , and the thought was gall and wormwood to him .
`` Whom are you going with ? ''
he asked .
`` That would be telling , '' Nan said , with maddening indifference .
`` Is it Bryan Lee ? ''
demanded John .
`` It might be , '' said Nan reflectively , `` and then again , you know , it might n't . ''
John was silent ; he was no match for Nan when it came to a war of words .
He scowled moodily at the shining tumblers .
`` Nan , I 'm going out west , '' he said finally .
Nan stared at him with her last tumbler poised in mid-air , very much as if he had announced his intention of going to the North Pole or Equatorial Africa .
`` John Osborne , are you crazy ? ''
`` Not quite .
And I 'm in earnest , I can tell you that . ''
Nan set the glass down with a decided thud .
John 's curtness displeased her .
He need n't suppose that it made any difference to her if he took it into his stupid head to go to Afghanistan .
`` Oh ! ''
she remarked carelessly .
`` Well , I suppose if you 've got the Western fever your case is hopeless .
Would it be impertinent to inquire why you are going ? ''
`` There 's nothing else for me to do , Nan , '' said John , `` Bryan Lee is going to foreclose the mortgage next month and I 'll have to clear out .
He says he ca n't wait any longer .
I 've worked hard enough and done my best to keep the old place , but it 's been uphill work and I 'm beaten at last . ''
Nan sat blankly down on the stool by the window .
Her face was a study which John Osborne , watching old Abe 's movements , missed .
`` Well , I never ! ''
she gasped .
`` John Osborne , do you mean to tell me that Bryan Lee is going to do that ?
How did he come to get your mortgage ? ''
`` Bought it from old Townsend , '' answered John briefly .
`` Oh , he 's within his rights , I 'll admit .
I 've even got behind with the interest this past year .
I 'll go out west and begin over again . ''
`` It 's a burning shame ! ''
said Nan violently .
John looked around in time to see two very red spots on her cheeks .
`` You do n't care though , Nan . ''
`` I do n't like to see anyone unjustly treated , '' declared Nan , `` and that is what you 've been .
You 've never had half a chance .
And after the way you 've slaved , too ! ''
`` If Lee would wait a little I might do something yet , now that Aunt Alice is gone , '' said John bitterly .
`` I 'm not afraid of work .
But he wo n't ; he means to take his spite out at last . ''
Nan hesitated .
`` Surely Bryan is n't so mean as that , '' she stammered .
`` Perhaps he 'll change his mind if -- if -- '' Osborne wheeled about with face aflame .
`` Do n't you say a word to him about it , Nan ! ''
he cried .
`` Do n't you go interceding with him for me .
I 've got some pride left .
He can take the farm from me , and he can take you maybe , but he ca n't take my self-respect .
I wo n't beg him for mercy .
Do n't you dare to say a word to him about it . ''
Nan 's eyes flashed .
She was offended to find her sympathy flung back in her face .
`` Do n't be alarmed , '' she said tartly .
`` I sha n't bother myself about your concerns .
I 've no doubt you 're able to look out for them yourself . ''
Osborne turned away .
As he did so he saw Bryan Lee driving up the lane .
Perhaps Nan saw it too .
At any rate , she leaned out of the window .
`` John !
John ! ''
Osborne half turned .
`` You 'll be up again soon , wo n't you ? ''
His face hardened .
`` I 'll come to say goodbye before I go , of course , '' he answered shortly .
He came face to face with Lee at the gate , where the latter was tying his sleek chestnut to a poplar .
He acknowledged his rival 's condescending nod with a scowl .
Lee looked after him with a satisfied smile .
`` Poor beggar ! ''
he muttered .
`` He feels pretty cheap I reckon .
I 've spoiled his chances in this quarter .
Old Abe does n't want any poverty-stricken hangers-on about his place and Nan wo n't dream of taking him when she knows he has n't a roof over his head . ''
He stopped for a chat with old Abe .
Old Abe approved of Bryan Lee .
He was a son-in-law after old Abe 's heart .
Meanwhile , Nan had seated herself at the pantry window and was ostentatiously hemming towels in apparent oblivion of suitor No. 2 .
Nevertheless , when Bryan came up she greeted him with an unusually sweet smile and at once plunged into an animated conversation .
Bryan had not come to ask her to go to the picnic -- business prevented him from going .
But he meant to find out if she were going with John Osborne .
As Nan was serenely impervious to all hints , he was finally forced to ask her bluntly if she was going to the picnic .
Well , yes , she expected to .
Oh !
Might he ask with whom ?
Nan did n't know that it was a question of public interest at all .
`` It is n't with that Osborne fellow , is it ? ''
demanded Bryan incautiously .
Nan tossed her head .
`` Well , why not ? ''
she asked .
`` Look here , Nan , '' said Lee angrily , `` if you 're going to the picnic with John Osborne I 'm surprised at you .
What do you mean by encouraging him so ?
He 's as poor as Job 's turkey .
I suppose you 've heard that I 've been compelled to foreclose the mortgage on his farm . ''
Nan kept her temper sweetly -- a dangerous sign , had Bryan but known it .
`` Yes ; he was telling me so this morning , '' she answered slowly .
`` Oh , was he ?
I suppose he gave me my character ? ''
`` No ; he did n't say very much about it at all .
He said of course you were within your rights .
But do you really mean to do it , Bryan ? ''
`` Of course I do , '' said Bryan promptly .
`` I ca n't wait any longer for my money , and I 'd never get it if I did .
Osborne ca n't even pay the interest . ''
`` It is n't because he has n't worked hard enough , then , '' said Nan .
`` He has just slaved on that place ever since he grew up . ''
`` Well , yes , he has worked hard in a way .
But he 's kind of shiftless , for all that -- no manager , as you might say .
Some folks would have been clear by now , but Osborne is one of those men that are bound to get behind .
He has n't got any business faculty . ''
`` He is n't shiftless , '' said Nan quickly , `` and it is n't his fault if he has got behind .
It 's all because of his care for his aunt .
He has had to spend more on her doctor 's bills than would have raised the mortgage .
And now that she is dead and he might have a chance to pull up , you go and foreclose . ''
`` A man must look out for Number One , '' said Bryan easily , admiring Nan 's downcast eyes and rosy cheeks .
`` I have n't any spite against Osborne , but business is business , you know . ''
Nan opened her lips to say something but , remembering Osborne 's parting injunction , she shut them again .
She shot a scornful glance at Lee as he stood with his arms folded on the sill beside her .
Bryan lingered , talking small talk , until Nan announced that she must see about getting tea .
`` And you wo n't tell me who is going to take you to the picnic ? ''
he coaxed .
`` Oh , it 's Ned Bennett , '' said Nan indifferently .
Bryan felt relieved .
He unpinned the huge cluster of violets on his coat and laid them down on the sill beside her before he went .
Nan flicked them off with her fingers as she watched him cross the lawn , his own self-satisfied smile upon his face .
* * * * * A week later the Osborne homestead had passed into Bryan Lee 's hands and John Osborne was staying with his cousin at Thornhope , pending his departure for the west .
He had never been to see Nan since that last afternoon , but Bryan Lee haunted the Stewart place .
One day he suddenly stopped coming and , although Nan was discreetly silent , in due time it came to old Abe 's ears by various driblets of gossip that Nan had refused him .
Old Abe marched straightway home to Nan in a fury and demanded if this were true .
Nan curtly admitted that it was .
Old Abe was so much taken aback by her coolness that he asked almost meekly what was her reason for doing such a fool trick .
`` Because he turned John Osborne out of house and home , '' returned Nan composedly .
`` If he had n't done that there is no telling what might have happened .
I might even have married him , because I liked him very well and it would have pleased you .
At any rate , I would n't have married John when you were against him .
Now I mean to . ''
Old Abe stormed furiously at this , but Nan kept so provokingly cool that he was conscious of wasting breath .
He went off in a rage , but Nan did not feel particularly anxious now that the announcement was over .
He would cool down , she knew .
John Osborne worried her more .
She did n't see clearly how she was to marry him unless he asked her , and he had studiously avoided her since the foreclosure .
But Nan did not mean to be baffled or to let her lover slip through her fingers for want of a little courage .
She was not old Abe Stewart 's daughter for nothing .
One day Ned Bennett dropped in and said that John Osborne would start for the west in three days .
That evening Nan went up to her room and dressed herself in the prettiest dress she owned , combed her hair around her sparkling face in bewitching curls , pinned a cluster of apple blossoms at her belt , and , thus equipped , marched down in the golden sunset light to the Mill Creek Bridge .
John Osborne , on his return from Thornhope half an hour later , found her there , leaning over the rail among the willows .
Nan started in well-assumed surprise and then asked him why he had not been to see her .
John blushed -- stammered -- did n't know -- had been busy .
Nan cut short his halting excuses by demanding to know if he were really going away , and what he intended to do .
`` I 'll go out on the prairies and take up a claim , '' said Osborne sturdily .
`` Begin life over again free of debt .
It 'll be hard work , but I 'm not afraid of that .
I will succeed if it takes me years . ''
They walked on in silence .
Nan came to the conclusion that Osborne meant to hold his peace .
`` John , '' she said tremulously , `` wo n't -- wo n't you find it very lonely out there ? ''
`` Of course -- I expect that .
I shall have to get used to it . ''
Nan grew nervous .
Proposing to a man was really very dreadful .
`` Would n't it be -- nicer for you '' -- she faltered -- `` that is -- it would n't be so lonely for you -- would it -- if -- if you had me out there with you ? ''
John Osborne stopped squarely in the dusty road and looked at her .
`` Nan ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Oh , if you ca n't take a hint ! ''
said Nan in despair .
It was all of an hour later that a man drove past them as they loitered up the hill road in the twilight .
It was Bryan Lee ; he had taken from Osborne his house and land , but he had not been able to take Nan Stewart , after all .
Natty of Blue Point Natty Miller strolled down to the wharf where Bliss Ford was tying up the Cockawee .
Bliss was scowling darkly at the boat , a trim new one , painted white , whose furled sails seemed unaccountably wet and whose glistening interior likewise dripped with moisture .
A group of fishermen on the wharf were shaking their heads sagely as Natty drew near .
`` Might as well split her up for kindlings , Bliss , '' said Jake McLaren .
`` You 'll never get men to sail in her .
It passed the first time , seeing as only young Johnson was skipper , but when a boat turns turtle with Captain Frank in command , there 's something serious wrong with her . ''
`` What 's up ? ''
asked Natty .
`` The Cockawee upset out in the bay again this morning , '' answered Will Scott .
`` That 's the second time .
The Grey Gull picked up the men and towed her in .
It 's no use trying to sail her .
Lobstermen ai n't going to risk their lives in a boat like that .
How 's things over at Blue Point , Natty ? ''
`` Pretty well , '' responded Natty laconically .
Natty never wasted words .
He had not talked a great deal in his fourteen years of life , but he was much given to thinking .
He was rather undersized and insignificant looking , but there were a few boys of his own age on the mainland who knew that Natty had muscles .
`` Has Everett heard anything from Ottawa about the lighthouse business yet ? ''
asked Will .
Natty shook his head .
`` Think he 's any chance of getting the app ` intment ? ''
queried Adam Lewis .
`` Not the ghost of a chance , '' said Cooper Creasy decidedly .
`` He 's on the wrong side of politics , that 's what .
Er rather his father was .
A Tory 's son ai n't going to get an app ` intment from a Lib ` ral government , that 's what . ''
`` Mr. Barr says that Everett is too young to be trusted in such a responsible position , '' quoted Natty gravely .
Cooper shrugged his shoulders .
`` Mebbe -- mebbe .
Eighteen is kind of green , but everybody knows that Ev 's been the real lighthouse keeper for two years , since your father took sick .
Irving Elliott wants that light -- has wanted it for years -- and he 's a pretty strong pull at headquarters , that 's what .
Barr owes him something for years of hard work at elections .
I ai n't saying anything against Elliott , either .
He 's a good man , but your father 's son ought to have that light as sure as he wo n't get it , that 's what . ''
`` Any of you going to take in the sports tomorrow down at Summerside ? ''
asked Will Scott , in order to switch Cooper away from politics , which were apt to excite him .
`` I 'm going , for one , '' said Adam .
`` There 's to be a yacht race atween the Summerside and Charlottetown boat clubs .
Yes , I am going .
Give you a chance down to the station , Natty , if you want one . ''
Natty shook his head .
`` Not going , '' he said briefly .
`` You should celebrate Victoria Day , '' said Adam , patriotically . ''
` Twenty-fourth o ' May 's the Queen 's birthday , Ef we do n't get a holiday we 'll all run away , ' as we used to say at school .
The good old Queen is dead , but the day 's been app ` inted a national holiday in honour of her memory and you should celebrate it becoming , Natty-boy . ''
`` Ev and I ca n't both go , and he 's going , '' explained Natty .
`` Prue and I 'll stay home to light up .
Must be getting back now .
Looks squally . ''
`` I misdoubt if we 'll have Queen 's weather tomorrow , '' said Cooper , squinting critically at the sky .
`` Looks like a northeast blow , that 's what .
There goes Bliss , striding off and looking pretty mad .
The Cockawee 's a dead loss to him , that 's what .
Nat 's off -- he knows how to handle a boat middling well , too .
Pity he 's such a puny youngster .
Not much to him , I reckon . ''
Natty had cast loose in his boat , the Merry Maid , and hoisted his sail .
In a few minutes he was skimming gaily down the bay .
The wind was fair and piping and the Merry Maid went like a bird .
Natty , at the rudder , steered for Blue Point Island , a reflective frown on his face .
He was feeling in no mood for Victoria Day sports .
In a very short time he and Ev and Prue must leave Blue Point lighthouse , where they had lived all their lives .
To Natty it seemed as if the end of all things would come then .
Where would life be worth living away from lonely , windy Blue Point Island ?
David Miller had died the preceding winter after a long illness .
He had been lighthouse keeper at Blue Point for thirty years .
His three children had been born and brought up there , and there , four years ago , the mother had died .
But womanly little Prue had taken her place well , and the boys were devoted to their sister .
When their father died , Everett had applied for the position of lighthouse keeper .
The matter was not yet publicly decided , but old Cooper Creasy had sized the situation up accurately .
The Millers had no real hope that Everett would be appointed .
Victoria Day , while not absolutely stormy , proved to be rather unpleasant .
A choppy northeast wind blew up the bay , and the water was rough enough .
The sky was overcast with clouds , and the May air was raw and chilly .
At Blue Point the Millers were early astir , for if Everett wanted to sail over to the mainland in time to catch the excursion train , no morning naps were permissible .
He was going alone .
Since only one of the boys could go , Natty had insisted that it should be Everett , and Prue had elected to stay home with Natty .
Prue had small heart for Victoria Day that year .
She did not feel even a thrill of enthusiasm when Natty hoisted a flag and wreathed the Queen 's picture with creeping spruce .
Prue felt as badly about leaving Blue Point Island as the boys did .
The day passed slowly .
In the afternoon the wind fell away to a dead calm , but there was still a heavy swell on , and shortly before sunset a fog came creeping up from the east and spread over the bay and islands , so thick and white that Prue and Natty could not even see Little Bear Island on the right .
`` I 'm glad Everett is n't coming back tonight , '' said Prue .
`` He could never find his way cross the harbour in that fog . ''
`` Is n't it thick , though , '' said Natty .
`` The light wo n't show far tonight . ''
At sunset they lighted the great lamps and then settled down to an evening of reading .
But it was not long before Natty looked up from his book to say , `` Hello , Prue , what was that ?
Thought I heard a noise . ''
`` So did I , '' said Prue .
`` I sounded like someone calling . ''
They hurried to the door , which looked out on the harbour .
The night , owing to the fog , was dark with a darkness that seemed almost tangible .
From somewhere out of that darkness came a muffled shouting , like that of a person in distress .
`` Prue , there 's somebody in trouble out there ! ''
exclaimed Natty .
`` Oh , it 's surely never Ev ! ''
cried Prue .
Natty shook his head .
`` Do n't think so .
Ev had no intention of coming back tonight .
Get that lantern , Prue .
I must go and see what and who it is . ''
`` Oh , Natty , you must n't , '' cried Prue in distress .
`` There 's a heavy swell on yet -- and the fog -- oh , if you get lost -- '' `` I 'll not get lost , and I must go , Prue .
Maybe somebody is drowning out there .
It 's not Ev , of course , but suppose it were !
That 's a good girl . ''
Prue , with set face , had brought the lantern , resolutely choking back the words of fear and protest that rushed to her lips .
They hurried down to the shore and Natty sprang into the little skiff he used for rowing .
He hastily lashed the lantern in the stern , cast loose the painter , and lifted the oars .
`` I 'll be back as soon as possible , '' he called to Prue .
`` Wait here for me . ''
In a minute the shore was out of sight , and Natty found himself alone in the black fog , with no guide but the cries for help , which already were becoming fainter .
They seemed to come from the direction of Little Bear , and thither Natty rowed .
It was a tough pull , and the water was rough enough for the little dory .
But Natty had been at home with the oars from babyhood , and his long training and tough sinews stood him in good stead now .
Steadily and intrepidly he rowed along .
The water grew rougher as he passed out from the shelter of Blue Point into the channel between the latter and Little Bear .
The cries were becoming very faint .
What if he should be too late ?
He bent to the oars with all his energy .
Presently , by the smoother water , he knew he must be in the lea of Little Bear .
The cries sounded nearer .
He must already have rowed nearly a mile .
The next minute he shot around a small headland and right before him , dimly visible in the faint light cast by the lantern through the fog , was an upturned boat with two men clinging to it , one on each side , evidently almost exhausted .
Natty rowed cautiously up to the one nearest him , knowing that he must be wary lest the grip of the drowning man overturn his own light skiff .
`` Let go when I say , '' he shouted , `` and do n't -- grab -- anything , do you hear ?
Do n't -- grab .
Now , let go . ''
The next minute the man lay in the dory , dragged over the stern by Netty 's grip on his collar .
`` Lie still , '' ordered Natty , clutching the oars .
To row around the overturned boat , amid the swirl of water about her , was a task that taxed Netty 's skill and strength to the utmost .
The other man was dragged in over the bow , and with a gasp of relief Natty pulled away from the sinking boat .
Once clear of her he could not row for a few minutes ; he was shaking from head to foot with the reaction from tremendous effort and strain .
`` This 'll never do , '' he muttered .
`` I 'm not going to be a baby now .
But will I ever be able to row back ? ''
Presently , however , he was able to grip his oars again and pull for the lighthouse , whose beacon loomed dimly through the fog like a great blur of whiter mist .
The men , obedient to his orders , lay quietly where he had placed them , and before long Natty was back again at the lighthouse landing , where Prue was waiting , wild with anxiety .
The men were helped out and assisted up to the lighthouse , where Natty went to hunt up dry clothes for them , and Prue flew about to prepare hot drinks .
`` To think that that child saved us ! ''
exclaimed one of the men .
`` Why , I did n't think a grown man had the strength to do what he did .
He is your brother , I suppose , Miss Miller .
You have another brother , I think ? ''
`` Oh , yes -- Everett -- but he is away , '' explained Prue .
`` We heard your shouts and Natty insisted on going at once to your rescue . ''
`` Well , he came just in time .
I could n't have held on another minute -- was so done up I could n't have moved or spoken all the way here even if he had n't commanded me to keep perfectly still . ''
Natty returned at this moment and exclaimed , `` Why , it is Mr. Barr .
I did n't recognize you before . ''
`` Barr it is , young man .
This gentleman is my friend , Mr. Blackmore .
We have been celebrating Victoria Day by a shooting tramp over Little Bear .
We hired a boat from Ford at the Harbour Head this morning -- the Cockawee , he called her -- and sailed over .
I do n't know much about running a boat , but Blackmore here thinks he does .
We were at the other side of the island when the fog came up .
We hurried across it , but it was almost dark when we reached our boat .
We sailed around the point and then the boat just simply upset -- do n't know why -- '' `` But I know why , '' interrupted Natty indignantly .
`` That Cockawee does nothing but upset .
She has turned turtle twice out in the harbour in fine weather .
Ford was a rascal to let her to you .
He might have known what would happen .
Why -- why -- it was almost murder to let you go ! ''
`` I thought there must be something queer about her , '' declared Mr. Blackmore .
`` I do know how to handle a boat despite my friend 's gibe , and there was no reason why she should have upset like that .
That Ford ought to be horsewhipped . ''
Thanks to Prue 's stinging hot decoctions of black currant drink , the two gentlemen were no worse for their drenching and exposure , and the next morning Natty took them to the mainland in the Merry Maid .
When he parted with them , Mr. Barr shook his hand heartily and said : `` Thank you , my boy .
You 're a plucky youngster and a skilful one , too .
Tell your brother that if I can get the Blue Point lighthouse berth for him I will , and as for yourself , you will always find a friend in me , and if I can ever do anything for you I will . ''
Two weeks later Everett received an official document formally appointing him keeper of Blue Point Island light .
Natty carried the news to the mainland , where it was joyfully received among the fishermen .
`` Only right and fair , '' said Cooper Creasy .
`` Blue Point without a Miller to light up would n't seem the thing at all , that 's what .
And it 's nothing but Ev 's doo . ''
`` Guess Natty had more to do with it than Ev , '' said Adam , perpetrating a very poor pun and being immensely applauded therefor .
It keyed Will Scott up to rival Adam .
`` You said that Irving had a pull and the Millers had n't , '' he said jocularly .
`` But it looks as if 't was Natty 's pull did the business after all -- his pull over to Bear Island and back . ''
`` It was about a miracle that a boy could do what he did on such a night , '' said Charles Macey .
`` Where 's Ford ? ''
asked Natty uncomfortably .
He hated to have his exploit talked about .
`` Ford has cleared out , '' said Cooper , `` gone down to Summerside to go into Tobe Meekins 's factory there .
Best thing he could do , that 's what .
Folks here had n't no use for him after letting that death trap to them two men -- even if they was Lib ` rals .
The Cockawee druv ashore on Little Bear , and there she 's going to remain , I guess .
D'ye want a berth in my mackerel boat this summer , Natty ? ''
`` I do , '' said Natty , `` but I thought you said you were full . ''
`` I guess I can make room for you , '' said Cooper .
`` A boy with such grit and muscle ai n't to be allowed to go to seed on Blue Point , that 's what .
Yesser , we 'll make room for you . ''
And Natty 's cup of happiness was full .
Penelope 's Party Waist `` It 's perfectly horrid to be so poor , '' grumbled Penelope .
Penelope did not often grumble , but just now , as she sat tapping with one pink-tipped finger her invitation to Blanche Anderson 's party , she felt that grumbling was the only relief she had .
Penelope was seventeen , and when one is seventeen and can not go to a party because one has n't a suitable dress to wear , the world is very apt to seem a howling wilderness .
`` I wish I could think of some way to get you a new waist , '' said Doris , with what these sisters called `` the poverty pucker '' coming in the centre of her pretty forehead .
`` If your black skirt were sponged and pressed and re-hung , it would do very well . ''
Penelope saw the poverty pucker and immediately repented with all her impetuous heart having grumbled .
That pucker came often enough without being brought there by extra worries .
`` Well , there is no use sitting here sighing for the unattainable , '' she said , jumping up briskly .
`` I 'd better be putting my grey matter into that algebra instead of wasting it plotting for a party dress that I certainly ca n't get .
It 's a sad thing for a body to lack brains when she wants to be a teacher , is n't it ?
If I could only absorb algebra and history as I can music , what a blessing it would be !
Come now , Dorrie dear , smooth that pucker out .
Next year I shall be earning a princely salary , which we can squander on party gowns at will -- if people have n't given up inviting us by that time , in sheer despair of ever being able to conquer our exclusiveness . ''
Penelope went off to her detested algebra with a laugh , but the pucker did not go out of Doris ' forehead .
She wanted Penelope to go to that party .
Penelope has studied so hard all winter and she has n't gone anywhere , thought the older sister wistfully .
She is getting discouraged over those examinations and she needs just a good , jolly time to hearten her up .
If it could only be managed !
But Doris did not see how it could .
It took every cent of her small salary as typewriter in an uptown office to run their tiny establishment and keep Penelope in school dresses and books .
Indeed , she could not have done even that much if they had not owned their little cottage .
Next year it would be easier if Penelope got through her examinations successfully , but just now there was absolutely not a spare penny .
`` It is hard to be poor .
We are a pair of misfits , '' said Doris , with a patient little smile , thinking of Penelope 's uncultivated talent for music and her own housewifely gifts , which had small chance of flowering out in her business life .
Doris dreamed of pretty dresses all that night and thought about them all the next day .
So , it must be confessed , did Penelope , though she would not have admitted it for the world .
When Doris reached home the next evening , she found Penelope hovering over a bulky parcel on the sitting-room table .
`` I 'm so glad you 've come , '' she said with an exaggerated gasp of relief .
`` I really do n't think my curiosity could have borne the strain for another five minutes .
The expressman brought this parcel an hour ago , and there 's a letter for you from Aunt Adella on the clock shelf , and I think they belong to each other .
Hurry up and find out .
Dorrie , darling , what if it should be a -- a -- present of some sort or other ! ''
`` I suppose it ca n't be anything else , '' smiled Doris .
She knew that Penelope had started out to say `` a new dress . ''
She cut the strings and removed the wrappings .
Both girls stared .
`` Is it -- it is n't -- yes , it is !
Doris Hunter , I believe it 's an old quilt ! ''
Doris unfolded the odd present with a queer feeling of disappointment .
She did not know just what she had expected the package to contain , but certainly not this .
She laughed a little shakily .
`` Well , we ca n't say after this that Aunt Adella never gave us anything , '' she said , when she had opened her letter .
`` Listen , Penelope . ''
My Dear Doris : I have decided to give up housekeeping and go out West to live with Robert .
So I am disposing of such of the family heirlooms as I do not wish to take with me .
I am sending you by express your Grandmother Hunter 's silk quilt .
It is a handsome article still and I hope you will prize it as you should .
It took your grandmother five years to make it .
There is a bit of the wedding dress of every member of the family in it .
Love to Penelope and yourself .
Your affectionate aunt , Adella Hunter .
`` I do n't see its beauty , '' said Penelope with a grimace .
`` It may have been pretty once , but it is all faded now .
It is a monument of patience , though .
The pattern is what they call ` Little Thousands , ' is n't it ?
Tell me , Dorrie , does it argue a lack of proper respect for my ancestors that I ca n't feel very enthusiastic over this heirloom -- especially when Grandmother Hunter died years before I was born ? ''
`` It was very kind of Aunt Adella to send it , '' said Doris dutifully .
`` Oh , very , '' agreed Penelope drolly .
`` Only do n't ever ask me to sleep under it .
It would give me the nightmare .
O-o-h ! ''
This last was a little squeal of admiration as Doris turned the quilt over and brought to view the shimmering lining .
`` Why , the wrong side is ever so much prettier than the right ! ''
exclaimed Penelope .
`` What lovely , old-timey stuff !
And not a bit faded . ''
The lining was certainly very pretty .
It was a soft , creamy yellow silk , with a design of brocaded pink rosebuds all over it .
`` That was a dress Grandmother Hunter had when she was a girl , '' said Doris absently .
`` I remember hearing Aunt Adella speak of it .
When it became old-fashioned , Grandmother used it to line her quilt .
I declare , it is as good as new . ''
`` Well , let us go and have tea , '' said Penelope .
`` I 'm decidedly hungry .
Besides , I see the poverty pucker coming .
Put the quilt in the spare room .
It is something to possess an heirloom , after all .
It gives one a nice , important-family feeling . ''
After tea , when Penelope was patiently grinding away at her studies and thinking dolefully enough of the near-approaching examinations , which she dreaded , and of teaching , which she confidently expected to hate , Doris went up to the tiny spare room to look at the wrong side of the quilt again .
`` It would make the loveliest party waist , '' she said under her breath .
`` Creamy yellow is Penelope 's colour , and I could use that bit of old black lace and those knots of velvet ribbon that I have to trim it .
I wonder if Grandmother Hunter 's reproachful spirit will forever haunt me if I do it . ''
Doris knew very well that she would do it -- had known it ever since she had looked at that lovely lining and a vision of Penelope 's vivid face and red-brown hair rising above a waist of the quaint old silk had flashed before her mental sight .
That night , after Penelope had gone to bed , Doris ripped the lining out of Grandmother Hunter 's silk quilt .
`` If Aunt Adella saw me now ! ''
she laughed softly to herself as she worked .
In the three following evenings Doris made the waist .
She thought it a wonderful bit of good luck that Penelope went out each of the evenings to study some especially difficult problems with a school chum .
`` It will be such a nice surprise for her , '' the sister mused jubilantly .
Penelope was surprised as much as the tender , sisterly heart could wish when Doris flashed out upon her triumphantly on the evening of the party with the black skirt nicely pressed and re-hung , and the prettiest waist imaginable -- a waist that was a positive `` creation '' of dainty rose-besprinkled silk , with a girdle and knots of black velvet .
`` Doris Hunter , you are a veritable little witch !
Do you mean to tell me that you conjured that perfectly lovely thing for me out of the lining of Grandmother Hunter 's quilt ? ''
So Penelope went to Blanche 's party and her dress was the admiration of every girl there .
Mrs. Fairweather , who was visiting Mrs. Anderson , looked closely at it also .
She was a very sweet old lady , with silver hair , which she wore in delightful , old-fashioned puffs , and she had very bright , dark eyes .
Penelope thought her altogether charming .
`` She looks as if she had just stepped out of the frame of some lovely old picture , '' she said to herself .
`` I wish she belonged to me .
I 'd just love to have a grandmother like her .
And I do wonder who it is I 've seen who looks so much like her . ''
A little later on the knowledge came to her suddenly , and she thought with inward surprise : Why , it is Doris , of course .
If my sister Doris lives to be seventy years old and wears her hair in pretty white puffs , she will look exactly as Mrs. Fairweather does now .
Mrs. Fairweather asked to have Penelope introduced to her , and when they found themselves alone together she said gently , `` My dear , I am going to ask a very impertinent question .
Will you tell me where you got the silk of which your waist is made ? ''
Poor Penelope 's pretty young face turned crimson .
She was not troubled with false pride by any means , but she simply could not bring herself to tell Mrs. Fairweather that her waist was made out of the lining of an old heirloom quilt .
`` My Aunt Adella gave me -- gave us -- the material , '' she stammered .
`` And my elder sister Doris made the waist for me .
I think the silk once belonged to my Grandmother Hunter . ''
`` What was your grandmother 's maiden name ? ''
asked Mrs. Fairweather eagerly .
`` Penelope Saverne .
I am named after her . ''
Mrs. Fairweather suddenly put her arm about Penelope and drew the young girl to her , her lovely old face aglow with delight and tenderness .
`` Then you are my grandniece , '' she said .
`` Your grandmother was my half-sister .
When I saw your dress , I felt sure you were related to her .
I should recognize that rosebud silk if I came across it in Thibet .
Penelope Saverne was the daughter of my mother by her first husband .
Penelope was four years older than I was , but we were devoted to each other .
Oddly enough , our birthdays fell on the same day , and when Penelope was twenty and I sixteen , my father gave us each a silk dress of this very material .
I have mine yet .
`` Soon after this our mother died and our household was broken up .
Penelope went to live with her aunt and I went West with Father .
This was long ago , you know , when travelling and correspondence were not the easy , matter-of-course things they are now .
After a few years I lost touch with my half-sister .
I married out West and have lived there all my life .
I never knew what had become of Penelope .
But tonight , when I saw you come in in that waist made of the rosebud silk , the whole past rose before me and I felt like a girl again .
My dear , I am a very lonely old woman , with nobody belonging to me .
You do n't know how delighted I am to find that I have two grandnieces . ''
Penelope had listened silently , like a girl in a dream .
Now she patted Mrs. Fairweather 's soft old hand affectionately .
`` It sounds like a storybook , '' she said gaily .
`` You must come and see Doris .
She is such a darling sister .
I would n't have had this waist if it had n't been for her .
I will tell you the whole truth -- I do n't mind it now .
Doris made my party waist for me out of the lining of an old silk quilt of Grandmother Hunter 's that Aunt Adella sent us . ''
Mrs. Fairweather did go to see Doris the very next day , and quite wonderful things came to pass from that interview .
Doris and Penelope found their lives and plans changed in the twinkling of an eye .
They were both to go and live with Aunt Esther -- as Mrs. Fairweather had said they must call her .
Penelope was to have , at last , her longed-for musical education and Doris was to be the home girl .
`` You must take the place of my own dear little granddaughter , '' said Aunt Esther .
`` She died six years ago , and I have been so lonely since . ''
When Mrs. Fairweather had gone , Doris and Penelope looked at each other .
`` Pinch me , please , '' said Penelope .
`` I 'm half afraid I 'll wake up and find I have been dreaming .
Is n't it all wonderful , Doris Hunter ? ''
Doris nodded radiantly .
`` Oh , Penelope , think of it !
Music for you -- somebody to pet and fuss over for me -- and such a dear , sweet aunty for us both ! ''
`` And no more contriving party waists out of old silk linings , '' laughed Penelope .
`` But it was very fortunate that you did it for once , sister mine .
And no more poverty puckers , '' she concluded .
The Girl and The Wild Race `` If Judith would only get married , '' Mrs. Theodora Whitney was wont to sigh dolorously .
Now , there was no valid reason why Judith ought to get married unless she wanted to .
But Judith was twenty-seven and Mrs. Theodora thought it was a terrible disgrace to be an old maid .
`` There has never been an old maid in our family so far back as we know of , '' she lamented .
`` And to think that there should be one now !
It just drags us down to the level of the McGregors .
They have always been noted for their old maids . ''
Judith took all her aunt 's lamentations good-naturedly .
Sometimes she argued the subject placidly .
`` Why are you in such a hurry to be rid of me , Aunt Theo ?
I 'm sure we 're very comfortable here together and you know you would miss me terribly if I went away . ''
`` If you took the right one you would n't go so very far , '' said Mrs. Theodora , darkly significant .
`` And , anyhow , I 'd put up with any amount of lonesomeness rather than have an old maid in the family .
It 's all very fine now , when you 're still young enough and good looking , with lots of beaus at your beck and call .
But that wo n't last much longer and if you go on with your dilly-dallying you 'll wake up some fine day to find that your time for choosing has gone by .
Your mother used to be dreadful proud of your good looks when you was a baby .
I told her she need n't be .
Nine times out of ten a beauty do n't marry as well as an ordinary girl . ''
`` I 'm not much set on marrying at all , '' declared Judith sharply .
Any reference to the `` right one '' always disturbed her placidity .
The real root of the trouble was that Mrs. Theodora 's `` right one '' and Judith 's `` right one '' were two different people .
The Ramble Valley young men were very fond of dancing attendance on Judith , even if she were verging on old maidenhood .
Her prettiness was undeniable ; the Stewarts came to maturity late and at twenty-seven Judith 's dower of milky-white flesh , dimpled red lips and shining bronze hair was at its fullest splendor .
Besides , she was `` jolly , '' and jollity went a long way in Ramble Valley popularity .
Of all Judith 's admirers Eben King alone found favor in Mrs. Theodora 's eyes .
He owned the adjoining farm , was well off and homely -- so homely that Judith declared it made her eyes ache to look at him .
Bruce Marshall , Judith 's `` right one '' was handsome , but Mrs. Theodora looked upon him with sour disapproval .
He owned a stony little farm at the remote end of Ramble Valley and was reputed to be fonder of many things than of work .
To be sure , Judith had enough capability and energy for two ; but Mrs. Theodora detested a lazy man .
She ordered Judith not to encourage him and Judith obeyed .
Judith generally obeyed her aunt ; but , though she renounced Bruce Marshall , she would have nothing to do with Eben King or anybody else and all Mrs. Theodora 's grumblings did not mend matters .
The afternoon that Mrs. Tony Mack came in Mrs. Theodora felt more aggrieved than ever .
Ellie McGregor had been married the previous week -- Ellie , who was the same age as Judith and not half so good looking .
Mrs. Theodora had been nagging Judith ever since .
`` But I might as well talk to the trees down there in that hollow , '' she complained to Mrs. Tony .
`` That girl is so set and contrary minded .
She does n't care a bit for my feelings . ''
This was not said behind Judith 's back .
The girl herself was standing at the open door , drinking in all the delicate , evasive beauty of the spring afternoon .
The Whitney house crested a bare hill that looked down on misty intervals , feathered with young firs that were golden green in the pale sunlight .
The fields were bare and smoking , although the lanes and shadowy places were full of moist snow .
Judith 's face was aglow with the delight of mere life and she bent out to front the brisk , dancing wind that blew up from the valley , resinous with the odors of firs and damp mosses .
At her aunt 's words the glow went out of her face .
She listened with her eyes brooding on the hollow and a glowing flame of temper smouldering in them .
Judith 's long patience was giving way .
She had been flicked on the raw too often of late .
And now her aunt was confiding her grievances to Mrs. Tony Mack -- the most notorious gossip in Ramble Valley or out of it !
`` I ca n't sleep at nights for worrying over what will become of her when I 'm gone , '' went on Mrs. Theodora dismally .
`` She 'll just have to live on alone here -- a lonesome , withered-up old maid .
And her that might have had her pick , Mrs. Tony , though I do say it as should n't .
You must feel real thankful to have all your girls married off -- especially when none of them was extry good-looking .
Some people have all the luck .
I 'm tired of talking to Judith .
Folks 'll be saying soon that nobody ever really wanted her , for all her flirting .
But she just wo n't marry . ''
`` I will ! ''
Judith whirled about on the sun warm door step and came in .
Her black eyes were flashing and her round cheeks were crimson .
`` Such a temper you never saw ! ''
reported Mrs. Tony afterwards .
`` Though ` twere n't to be wondered at .
Theodora was most awful aggravating . ''
`` I will , '' repeated Judith stormily .
`` I 'm tired of being nagged day in and day out .
I 'll marry -- and what is more I 'll marry the very first man that asks me -- that I will , if it is old Widower Delane himself !
How does that suit you , Aunt Theodora ? ''
Mrs. Theodora 's mental processes were never slow .
She dropped her knitting ball and stooped for it .
In that time she had decided what to do .
She knew that Judith would stick to her word , Stewart-like , and she must trim her sails to catch this new wind .
`` It suits me real well , Judith , '' she said calmly , `` you can marry the first man that asks you and I 'll say no word to hinder . ''
The color went out of Judith 's face , leaving it pale as ashes .
Her hasty assertion had no sooner been uttered than it was repented of , but she must stand by it now .
She went out of the kitchen without another glance at her aunt or the delighted Mrs. Tony and dashed up the stairs to her own little room which looked out over the whole of Ramble Valley .
It was warm with the March sunshine and the leafless boughs of the creeper that covered the end of the house were tapping a gay tattoo on the window panes to the music of the wind .
Judith sat down in her little rocker and dropped her pointed chin in her hands .
Far down the valley , over the firs on the McGregor hill and the blue mirror of the Cranston pond , Bruce Marshall 's little gray house peeped out from a semicircle of white-stemmed birches .
She had not seen Bruce since before Christmas .
He had been angry at her then because she had refused to let him drive her home from prayer meeting .
Since then she had heard a rumor that he was going to see Kitty Leigh at the Upper Valley .
Judith looked sombrely down at the Marshall homestead .
She had always loved the quaint , picturesque old place , so different from all the commonplace spick and span new houses of the prosperous valley .
Judith had never been able to decide whether she really cared very much for Bruce Marshall or not , but she knew that she loved that rambling , cornery house of his , with the gable festooned with the real ivy that Bruce Marshall 's great-grandmother had brought with her from England .
Judith thought contrastingly of Eben King 's staring , primrose-colored house in all its bare , intrusive grandeur .
She gave a little shrug of distaste .
`` I wish Bruce knew of this , '' she thought , flushing even in her solitude at the idea .
`` Although if it is true that he is going to see Kitty Leigh I do n't suppose he 'd care .
And Aunt Theo will be sure to send word to Eben by hook or crook .
Whatever possessed me to say such a mad thing ?
There goes Mrs. Tony now , all agog to spread such a delectable bit of gossip . ''
Mrs. Tony had indeed gone , refusing Mrs. Theodora 's invitation to stay to tea , so eager was she to tell her story .
And Mrs. Theodora , at that very minute , was out in her kitchen yard , giving her instructions to Potter Vane , the twelve year old urchin who cut her wood and did sundry other chores for her .
`` Potter , '' she said , excitedly , `` run over to the Kings ' and tell Eben to come over here immediately -- no matter what he 's at .
Tell him I want to see him about something of the greatest importance . ''
Mrs. Theodora thought that this was a master stroke .
`` That match is as good as made , '' she thought triumphantly as she picked up chips to start the tea fire .
`` If Judith suspects that Eben is here she is quite likely to stay in her room and refuse to come down .
But if she does I 'll march him upstairs to her door and make him ask her through the keyhole .
You ca n't stump Theodora Whitney . ''
Alas !
Ten minutes later Potter returned with the unwelcome news that Eben was away from home .
`` He went to Wexbridge about half an hour ago , his ma said .
She said she 'd tell him to come right over as soon as he kem home . ''
Mrs. Theodora had to content herself with this , but she felt troubled .
She knew Mrs. Tony Mack 's capabilities for spreading news .
What if Bruce Marshall should hear it before Eben ?
That evening Jacob Plowden 's store at Wexbridge was full of men , sitting about on kegs and counters or huddling around the stove , for the March air had grown sharp as the sun lowered in the creamy sky over the Ramble Valley hills .
Eben King had a keg in the corner .
He was in no hurry to go home for he loved gossip dearly and the Wexbridge stores abounded with it .
He had exhausted the news of Peter Stanley 's store across the bridge and now he meant to hear what was saying at Plowden 's .
Bruce Marshall was there , too , buying groceries and being waited on by Nora Plowden , who was by no means averse to the service , although as a rule her father 's customers received scanty tolerance at her hands .
`` What are the Valley roads like , Marshall ? ''
asked a Wexbridge man , between two squirts of tobacco juice .
`` Bad , '' said Bruce briefly .
`` Another warm day will finish the sleighing . ''
`` Are they crossing at Malley 's Creek yet ? ''
asked Plowden .
`` No , Jack Carr got in there day before yesterday .
Nearly lost his mare .
I came round by the main road , '' responded Bruce .
The door opened at this point and Tony Mack came in .
As soon as he closed the door he doubled up in a fit of chuckles , which lasted until he was purple in the face .
`` Is the man crazy ? ''
demanded Plowden , who had never seen lean little Tony visited like this before .
`` Crazy nothin ' , '' retorted Tony .
`` You 'll laugh too , when you hear it .
Such a joke !
Hee-tee-tee-hee-e .
Theodora Whitney has been badgering Judith Stewart so much about bein ' an old maid that Judith 's got mad and vowed she 'll marry the first man that asks her .
Hee-tee-tee-hee-e-e-e !
My old woman was there and heard her .
She 'll keep her word , too .
She ai n't old Joshua Stewart 's daughter for nothin ' .
If he said he 'd do a thing he did it if it tuck the hair off .
If I was a young feller now !
Hee-tee-tee-hee-e-e-e ! ''
Bruce Marshall swung round on one foot .
His face was crimson and if looks could kill , Tony Mack would have fallen dead in the middle of his sniggers .
`` You need n't mind doing up that parcel for me , '' he said to Nora .
`` I 'll not wait for it . ''
On his way to the door Eben King brushed past him .
A shout of laughter from the assembled men followed them .
The others streamed out in their wake , realizing that a race was afoot .
Tony alone remained inside , helpless with chuckling .
Eben King 's horse was tied at the door .
He had nothing to do but step in and drive off .
Bruce had put his mare in at Billy Bender 's across the bridge , intending to spend the evening there .
He knew that this would handicap him seriously , but he strode down the road with a determined expression on his handsome face .
Fifteen minutes later he drove past the store , his gray mare going at a sharp gait .
The crowd in front of Plowden 's cheered him , their sympathies were with him for King was not popular .
Tony had come out and shouted , `` Here 's luck to you , brother , '' after which he doubled up with renewed laughter .
Such a lark !
And he , Tony , had set it afoot !
It would be a story to tell for years .
Marshall , with his lips set and his dreamy gray eyes for once glittering with a steely light , urged Lady Jane up the Wexbridge hill .
From its top it was five miles to Ramble Valley by the main road .
A full mile ahead of him he saw Eben King , getting along through mud and slush , and occasional big slumpy drifts of old snow , as fast as his clean-limbed trotter could carry him .
As a rule Eben was exceedingly careful of his horses , but now he was sending Bay Billy along for all that was in him .
For a second Bruce hesitated .
Then he turned his mare down the field cut to Malley 's Creek .
It was taking Lady Jane 's life and possibly his own in his hand , but it was his only chance .
He could never have overtaken Bay Billy on the main road .
`` Do your best , Lady Jane , '' he muttered , and Lady Jane plunged down the steep hillside , through the glutinous mud of a ploughed field as if she meant to do it .
Beyond the field was a ravine full of firs , through which Malley 's Creek ran .
To cross it meant a four-mile cut to Ramble Valley .
The ice looked black and rotten .
To the left was the ragged hole where Jack Carr 's mare had struggled for her life .
Bruce headed Lady Jane higher up .
If a crossing could be made at all it was only between Malley 's spring-hole and the old ice road .
Lady Jane swerved at the bank and whickered .
`` On , old girl , '' said Bruce , in a tense voice .
Unwillingly she advanced , picking her steps with cat-like sagacity .
Once her foot went through , Bruce pulled her up with hands that did not tremble .
The next moment she was scrambling up the opposite bank .
Glancing back , Bruce saw the ice parting in her footprints and the black water gurgling up .
But the race was not yet decided .
By crossing the creek he had won no more than an equal chance with Eben King .
And the field road before him was much worse than the main road .
There was little snow on it and some bad sloughs .
But Lady Jane was good for it .
For once she should not be spared .
Just as the red ball of the sun touched the wooded hills of the valley , Mrs. Theodora , looking from the cowstable door , saw two sleighs approaching , the horses of which were going at a gallop .
One was trundling down the main road , headlong through old drifts and slumpy snow , where a false step might send the horse floundering to the bottom .
The other was coming up from the direction of the creek , full tilt through Tony Mack 's stump land , where not a vestige of snow coated the huge roots over which the runners bumped .
For a moment Mrs. Theodora stood at a gaze .
Then she recognized both drivers .
She dropped her milking pail and ran to the house , thinking as she ran .
She knew that Judith was alone in the kitchen .
If Eben King got there first , well and good , but if Bruce Marshall won the race he must encounter her , Mrs. Theodora .
`` He wo n't propose to Judith as long as I 'm round , '' she panted .
`` I know him -- he 's too shy .
But Eben wo n't mind -- I 'll tip him the wink . ''
Potter Vane was chopping wood before the door .
Mrs. Theodora recognizing in him a further obstacle to Marshall 's wooing , caught him unceremoniously by the arm and hauled him , axe and all , over the doorstone and into the kitchen , just as Bruce Marshall and Eben King drove into the yard with not a second to spare between them .
There was a woeful cut on Bay Billy 's slender foreleg and the reeking Lady Jane was trembling like a leaf .
The staunch little mare had brought her master over that stretch of sticky field road in time , but she was almost exhausted .
Both men sprang from their sleighs and ran to the door .
Bruce Marshall won it by foot-room and burst into the kitchen with his rival hot on his heels .
Mrs. Theodora stood defiantly in the middle of the room , still grasping the dazed and dismayed Potter .
In a corner Judith turned from the window whence she had been watching the finish of the race .
She was pale and tense from excitement .
In those few gasping moments she had looked on her heart as on an open book ; she knew at last that she loved Bruce Marshall and her eyes met his fiery gray ones as he sprang over the threshold .
`` Judith , will you marry me ? ''
gasped Bruce , before Eben , who had first looked at Mrs. Theodora and the squirming Potter , had located the girl .
`` Yes , '' said Judith .
She burst into hysterical tears as she said it and sat limply down in a chair .
Mrs. Theodora loosed her grip on Potter .
`` You can go back to your work , '' she said dully .
She followed him out and Eben King followed her .
On the step she reached behind him and closed the door .
`` Trust a King for being too late ! ''
she said bitterly and unjustly .
Eben went home with Bay Billy .
Potter gazed after him until Mrs. Theodora ordered him to put Marshall 's mare in the stable and rub her down .
`` Anyway , Judith wo n't be an old maid , '' she comforted herself .
The Promise of Lucy Ellen Cecily Foster came down the sloping , fir-fringed road from the village at a leisurely pace .
Usually she walked with a long , determined stride , but to-day the drowsy , mellowing influence of the Autumn afternoon was strong upon her and filled her with placid content .
Without being actively conscious of it , she was satisfied with the existing circumstances of her life .
It was half over now .
The half of it yet to be lived stretched before her , tranquil , pleasant and uneventful , like the afternoon , filled with unhurried duties and calmly interesting days , Cecily liked the prospect .
When she came to her own lane she paused , folding her hands on the top of the whitewashed gate , while she basked for a moment in the warmth that seemed cupped in the little grassy hollow hedged about with young fir-trees .
Before her lay sere , brooding fields sloping down to a sandy shore , where long foamy ripples were lapping with a murmur that threaded the hushed air like a faint minor melody .
On the crest of the little hill to her right was her home -- hers and Lucy Ellen 's .
The house was an old-fashioned , weather-gray one , low in the eaves , with gables and porches overgrown with vines that had turned to wine-reds and rich bronzes in the October frosts .
On three sides it was closed in by tall old spruces , their outer sides bared and grim from long wrestling with the Atlantic winds , but their inner green and feathery .
On the fourth side a trim white paling shut in the flower garden before the front door .
Cecily could see the beds of purple and scarlet asters , making rich whorls of color under the parlor and sitting-room windows .
Lucy Ellen 's bed was gayer and larger than Cecily 's .
Lucy Ellen had always had better luck with flowers .
She could see old Boxer asleep on the front porch step and Lucy Ellen 's white cat stretched out on the parlor window-sill .
There was no other sign of life about the place .
Cecily drew a long , leisurely breath of satisfaction .
`` After tea I 'll dig up those dahlia roots , '' she said aloud .
`` They 'd ought to be up .
My , how blue and soft that sea is !
I never saw such a lovely day .
I 've been gone longer than I expected .
I wonder if Lucy Ellen 's been lonesome ? ''
When Cecily looked back from the misty ocean to the house , she was surprised to see a man coming with a jaunty step down the lane under the gnarled spruces .
She looked at him perplexedly .
He must be a stranger , for she was sure no man in Oriental walked like that .
`` Some agent has been pestering Lucy Ellen , I suppose , '' she muttered vexedly .
The stranger came on with an airy briskness utterly foreign to Orientalites .
Cecily opened the gate and went through .
They met under the amber-tinted sugar maple in the heart of the hollow .
As he passed , the man lifted his hat and bowed with an ingratiating smile .
He was about forty-five , well , although somewhat loudly dressed , and with an air of self-satisfied prosperity pervading his whole personality .
He had a heavy gold watch chain and a large seal ring on the hand that lifted his hat .
He was bald , with a high , Shaksperian forehead and a halo of sandy curls .
His face was ruddy and weak , but good-natured : his eyes were large and blue , and he had a little straw-colored moustache , with a juvenile twist and curl in it .
Cecily did not recognize him , yet there was something vaguely familiar about him .
She walked rapidly up to the house .
In the sitting-room she found Lucy Ellen peering out between the muslin window curtains .
When the latter turned there was an air of repressed excitement about her .
`` Who was that man , Lucy Ellen ? ''
Cecily asked .
To Cecily 's amazement , Lucy Ellen blushed -- a warm , Spring-like flood of color that rolled over her delicate little face like a miracle of rejuvenescence .
`` Did n't you know him ?
That was Cromwell Biron , '' she simpered .
Although Lucy Ellen was forty and , in most respects , sensible , she could not help simpering upon occasion .
`` Cromwell Biron , '' repeated Cecily , in an emotionless voice .
She took off her bonnet mechanically , brushed the dust from its ribbons and bows and went to put it carefully away in its white box in the spare bedroom .
She felt as if she had had a severe shock , and she dared not ask anything more just then .
Lucy Ellen 's blush had frightened her .
It seemed to open up dizzying possibilities of change .
`` But she promised -- she promised , '' said Cecily fiercely , under her breath .
While Cecily was changing her dress , Lucy Ellen was getting the tea ready in the little kitchen .
Now and then she broke out into singing , but always checked herself guiltily .
Cecily heard her and set her firm mouth a little firmer .
`` If a man had jilted me twenty years ago , I would n't be so overwhelmingly glad to see him when he came back -- especially if he had got fat and bald-headed , '' she added , her face involuntarily twitching into a smile .
Cecily , in spite of her serious expression and intense way of looking at life , had an irrepressible sense of humor .
Tea that evening was not the pleasant meal it usually was .
The two women were wont to talk animatedly to each other , and Cecily had many things to tell Lucy Ellen .
She did not tell them .
Neither did Lucy Ellen ask any questions , her ill-concealed excitement hanging around her like a festal garment .
Cecily 's heart was on fire with alarm and jealousy .
She smiled a little cruelly as she buttered and ate her toast .
`` And so that was Cromwell Biron , '' she said with studied carelessness .
`` I thought there was something familiar about him .
When did he come home ? ''
`` He got to Oriental yesterday , '' fluttered back Lucy Ellen .
`` He 's going to be home for two months .
We -- we had such an interesting talk this afternoon .
He -- he 's as full of jokes as ever .
I wished you 'd been here . ''
This was a fib .
Cecily knew it .
`` I do n't , then , '' she said contemptuously .
`` You know I never had much use for Cromwell Biron .
I think he had a face of his own to come down here to see you uninvited , after the way he treated you . ''
Lucy Ellen blushed scorchingly and was miserably silent .
`` He 's changed terrible in his looks , '' went on Cecily relentlessly .
`` How bald he 's got -- and fat !
To think of the spruce Cromwell Biron got to be bald and fat !
To be sure , he still has the same sheepish expression .
Will you pass me the currant jell , Lucy Ellen ? ''
`` I do n't think he 's so very fat , '' she said resentfully , when Cecily had left the table .
`` And I do n't care if he is . ''
Twenty years before this , Biron had jilted Lucy Ellen Foster .
She was the prettiest girl in Oriental then , but the new school teacher over at the Crossways was prettier , with a dash of piquancy , which Lucy Ellen lacked , into the bargain .
Cromwell and the school teacher had run away and been married , and Lucy Ellen was left to pick up the tattered shreds of her poor romance as best she could .
She never had another lover .
She told herself that she would always be faithful to the one love of her life .
This sounded romantic , and she found a certain comfort in it .
She had been brought up by her uncle and aunt .
When they died she and her cousin , Cecily Foster , found themselves , except for each other , alone in the world .
Cecily loved Lucy Ellen as a sister .
But she believed that Lucy Ellen would yet marry , and her heart sank at the prospect of being left without a soul to love and care for .
It was Lucy Ellen that had first proposed their mutual promise , but Cecily had grasped at it eagerly .
The two women , verging on decisive old maidenhood , solemnly promised each other that they would never marry , and would always live together .
From that time Cecily 's mind had been at ease .
In her eyes a promise was a sacred thing .
The next evening at prayer-meeting Cromwell Biron received quite an ovation from old friends and neighbors .
Cromwell had been a favorite in his boyhood .
He had now the additional glamour of novelty and reputed wealth .
He was beaming and expansive .
He went into the choir to help sing .
Lucy Ellen sat beside him , and they sang from the same book .
Two red spots burned on her thin cheeks , and she had a cluster of lavender chrysanthemums pinned on her jacket .
She looked almost girlish , and Cromwell Biron gazed at her with sidelong admiration , while Cecily watched them both fiercely from her pew .
She knew that Cromwell Biron had come home , wooing his old love .
`` But he sha 'n' t get her , '' Cecily whispered into her hymnbook .
Somehow it was a comfort to articulate the words , `` She promised . ''
On the church steps Cromwell offered his arm to Lucy Ellen with a flourish .
She took it shyly , and they started down the road in the crisp Autumn moonlight .
For the first time in ten years Cecily walked home from prayer-meeting alone .
She went up-stairs and flung herself on her bed , reckless for once , of her second best hat and gown .
Lucy Ellen did not venture to ask Cromwell in .
She was too much in awe of Cecily for that .
But she loitered with him at the gate until the grandfather 's clock in the hall struck eleven .
Then Cromwell went away , whistling gaily , with Lucy Ellen 's chrysanthemum in his buttonhole , and Lucy Ellen went in and cried half the night .
But Cecily did not cry .
She lay savagely awake until morning .
`` Cromwell Biron is courting you again , '' she said bluntly to Lucy Ellen at the breakfast table .
Lucy Ellen blushed nervously .
`` Oh , nonsense , Cecily , '' she protested with a simper .
`` It is n't nonsense , '' said Cecily calmly .
`` He is .
There is no fool like an old fool , and Cromwell Biron never had much sense .
The presumption of him ! ''
Lucy Ellen 's hands trembled as she put her teacup down .
`` He 's not so very old , '' she said faintly , `` and everybody but you likes him -- and he 's well-to-do .
I do n't see that there 's any presumption . ''
`` Maybe not -- if you look at it so .
You 're very forgiving , Lucy Ellen .
You 've forgotten how he treated you once . ''
`` No -- o -- o , I have n't , '' faltered Lucy Ellen .
`` Anyway , '' said Cecily coldly , `` you should n't encourage his attentions , Lucy Ellen ; you know you could n't marry him even if he asked you .
You promised . ''
All the fitful color went out of Lucy Ellen 's face .
Under Cecily 's pitiless eyes she wilted and drooped .
`` I know , '' she said deprecatingly , `` I have n't forgotten .
You are talking nonsense , Cecily .
I like to see Cromwell , and he likes to see me because I 'm almost the only one of his old set that is left .
He feels lonesome in Oriental now . ''
Lucy Ellen lifted her fawn-colored little head more erectly at the last of her protest .
She had saved her self-respect .
In the month that followed Cromwell Biron pressed his suit persistently , unintimidated by Cecily 's antagonism .
October drifted into November and the chill , drear days came .
To Cecily the whole outer world seemed the dismal reflex of her pain-bitten heart .
Yet she constantly laughed at herself , too , and her laughter was real if bitter .
One evening she came home late from a neighbor 's .
Cromwell Biron passed her in the hollow under the bare boughs of the maple that were outlined against the silvery moonlit sky .
When Cecily went into the house , Lucy Ellen opened the parlor door .
She was very pale , but her eyes burned in her face and her hands were clasped before her .
`` I wish you 'd come in here for a few minutes , Cecily , '' she said feverishly .
Cecily followed silently into the room .
`` Cecily , '' she said faintly , `` Cromwell was here to-night .
He asked me to marry him .
I told him to come to-morrow night for his answer . ''
She paused and looked imploringly at Cecily .
Cecily did not speak .
She stood tall and unrelenting by the table .
The rigidity of her face and figure smote Lucy Ellen like a blow .
She threw out her bleached little hands and spoke with a sudden passion utterly foreign to her .
`` Cecily , I want to marry him .
I -- I -- love him .
I always have .
I never thought of this when I promised .
Oh , Cecily , you 'll let me off my promise , wo n't you ? ''
`` No , '' said Cecily .
It was all she said .
Lucy Ellen 's hands fell to her sides , and the light went out of her face .
`` You wo n't ? ''
she said hopelessly .
Cecily went out .
At the door she turned .
`` When John Edwards asked me to marry him six years ago , I said no for your sake .
To my mind a promise is a promise .
But you were always weak and romantic , Lucy Ellen . ''
Lucy Ellen made no response .
She stood limply on the hearth-rug like a faded blossom bitten by frost .
After Cromwell Biron had gone away the next evening , with all his brisk jauntiness shorn from him for the time , Lucy Ellen went up to Cecily 's room .
She stood for a moment in the narrow doorway , with the lamplight striking upward with a gruesome effect on her wan face .
`` I 've sent him away , '' she said lifelessly .
`` I 've kept my promise , Cecily . ''
There was silence for a moment .
Cecily did not know what to say .
Suddenly Lucy Ellen burst out bitterly .
`` I wish I was dead ! ''
Then she turned swiftly and ran across the hall to her own room .
Cecily gave a little moan of pain .
This was her reward for all the love she had lavished on Lucy Ellen .
`` Anyway , it is all over , '' she said , looking dourly into the moonlit boughs of the firs ; `` Lucy Ellen 'll get over it .
When Cromwell is gone she 'll forget all about him .
I 'm not going to fret .
She promised , and she wanted the promise first . ''
During the next fortnight tragedy held grim sway in the little weather-gray house among the firs -- a tragedy tempered with grim comedy for Cecily , who , amid all her agony , could not help being amused at Lucy Ellen 's romantic way of sorrowing .
Lucy Ellen did her mornings ' work listlessly and drooped through the afternoons .
Cecily would have felt it as a relief if Lucy Ellen had upbraided her , but after her outburst on the night she sent Cromwell away , Lucy Ellen never uttered a word of reproach or complaint .
One evening Cecily made a neighborly call in the village .
Cromwell Biron happened to be there and gallantly insisted upon seeing her home .
She understood from Cromwell 's unaltered manner that Lucy Ellen had not told him why she had refused him .
She felt a sudden admiration for her cousin .
When they reached the house Cromwell halted suddenly in the banner of light that streamed from the sitting-room window .
They saw Lucy Ellen sitting alone before the fire , her arms folded on the table , and her head bowed on them .
Her white cat sat unnoticed at the table beside her .
Cecily gave a gasp of surrender .
`` You 'd better come in , '' she said , harshly .
`` Lucy Ellen looks lonesome . ''
Cromwell muttered sheepishly , `` I 'm afraid I would n't be company for her .
Lucy Ellen does n't like me much -- '' `` Oh , does n't she ! ''
said Cecily , bitterly .
`` She likes you better than she likes me for all I 've -- but it 's no matter .
It 's been all my fault -- she 'll explain .
Tell her I said she could .
Come in , I say . ''
She caught the still reluctant Cromwell by the arm and fairly dragged him over the geranium beds and through the front door .
She opened the sitting-room door and pushed him in .
Lucy Ellen rose in amazement .
Over Cromwell 's bald head loomed Cecily 's dark face , tragic and determined .
`` Here 's your beau , Lucy Ellen , '' she said , `` and I give you back your promise . ''
She shut the door upon the sudden illumination of Lucy Ellen 's face and went up-stairs with the tears rolling down her cheeks .
`` It 's my turn to wish I was dead , '' she muttered .
Then she laughed hysterically .
`` That goose of a Cromwell !
How queer he did look standing there , frightened to death of Lucy Ellen .
Poor little Lucy Ellen !
Well , I hope he 'll be good to her . ''
The Pursuit of the Ideal Freda 's snuggery was aglow with the rose-red splendour of an open fire which was triumphantly warding off the stealthy approaches of the dull grey autumn twilight .
Roger St. Clair stretched himself out luxuriously in an easy-chair with a sigh of pleasure .
`` Freda , your armchairs are the most comfy in the world .
How do you get them to fit into a fellow 's kinks so splendidly ? ''
Freda smiled at him out of big , owlish eyes that were the same tint as the coppery grey sea upon which the north window of the snuggery looked .
`` Any armchair will fit a lazy fellow 's kinks , '' she said .
`` I 'm not lazy , '' protested Roger .
`` That you should say so , Freda , when I have wheeled all the way out of town this dismal afternoon over the worst bicycle road in three kingdoms to see you , bonnie maid ! ''
`` I like lazy people , '' said Freda softly , tilting her spoon on a cup of chocolate with a slender brown hand .
Roger smiled at her chummily .
`` You are such a comfortable girl , '' he said .
`` I like to talk to you and tell you things . ''
`` You have something to tell me today .
It has been fairly sticking out of your eyes ever since you came .
Now , ` fess . ''
Freda put away her cup and saucer , got up , and stood by the fireplace , with one arm outstretched along the quaintly carved old mantel .
She laid her head down on its curve and looked expectantly at Roger .
`` I have seen my ideal , Freda , '' said Roger gravely .
Freda lifted her head and then laid it down again .
She did not speak .
Roger was glad of it .
Even at the moment he found himself thinking that Freda had a genius for silence .
Any other girl he knew would have broken in at once with surprised exclamations and questions and spoiled his story .
`` You have not forgotten what my ideal woman is like ? ''
he said .
Freda shook her head .
She was not likely to forget .
She remembered only too keenly the afternoon he had told her .
They had been sitting in the snuggery , herself in the inglenook , and Roger coiled up in his big pet chair that nobody else ever sat in . ''
` What must my lady be that I must love her ? ' ''
he had quoted .
`` Well , I will paint my dream-love for you , Freda .
She must be tall and slender , with chestnut hair of wonderful gloss , with just the suggestion of a ripple in it .
She must have an oval face , colourless ivory in hue , with the expression of a Madonna ; and her eyes must be ` passionless , peaceful blue , ' deep and tender as a twilight sky . ''
Freda , looking at herself along her arm in the mirror , recalled this description and smiled faintly .
She was short and plump , with a piquant , irregular little face , vivid tinting , curly , unmanageable hair of ruddy brown , and big grey eyes .
Certainly , she was not his ideal .
`` When and where did you meet your lady of the Madonna face and twilight eyes ? ''
she asked .
Roger frowned .
Freda 's face was solemn enough but her eyes looked as if she might be laughing at him .
`` I have n't met her yet .
I have only seen her .
It was in the park yesterday .
She was in a carriage with the Mandersons .
So beautiful , Freda !
Our eyes met as she drove past and I realized that I had found my long-sought ideal .
I rushed back to town and hunted up Pete Manderson at the club .
Pete is a donkey but he has his ways of being useful .
He told me who she was .
Her name is Stephanie Gardiner ; she is his cousin from the south and is visiting his mother .
And , Freda , I am to dine at the Mandersons ' tonight .
I shall meet her . ''
`` Do goddesses and ideals and Madonnas eat ? ''
said Freda in an awed whisper .
Her eyes were certainly laughing now .
Roger got up stiffly .
`` I must confess I did not expect that you would ridicule my confidence , Freda , '' he said frigidly .
`` It is very unlike you .
But if you are not interested I will not bore you with any further details .
And it is time I was getting back to town anyhow . ''
When he had gone Freda ran to the west window and flung it open .
She leaned out and waved both hands at him over the spruce hedge .
`` Roger , Roger , I was a horrid little beast .
Forget it immediately , please .
And come out tomorrow and tell me all about her . ''
Roger came .
He bored Freda terribly with his raptures but she never betrayed it .
She was all sympathy -- or , at least , as much sympathy as a woman can be who must listen while the man of men sings another woman 's praises to her .
She sent Roger away in perfect good humour with himself and all the world , then she curled herself up in the snuggery , pulled a rug over her head , and cried .
Roger came out to Lowlands oftener than ever after that .
He had to talk to somebody about Stephanie Gardiner and Freda was the safest vent .
The `` pursuit of the Ideal , '' as she called it , went on with vim and fervour .
Sometimes Roger would be on the heights of hope and elation ; the next visit he would be in the depths of despair and humility .
Freda had learned to tell which it was by the way he opened the snuggery door .
One day when Roger came he found six feet of young man reposing at ease in his particular chair .
Freda was sipping chocolate in her corner and looking over the rim of her cup at the intruder just as she had been wont to look at Roger .
She had on a new dark red gown and looked vivid and rose-hued .
She introduced the stranger as Mr. Grayson and called him Tim .
They seemed to be excellent friends .
Roger sat bolt upright on the edge of a fragile , gilded chair which Freda kept to hide a shabby spot in the carpet , and glared at Tim until the latter said goodbye and lounged out .
`` You 'll be over tomorrow ? ''
said Freda .
`` Ca n't I come this evening ? ''
he pleaded .
Freda nodded .
`` Yes -- and we 'll make taffy .
You used to make such delicious stuff , Tim . ''
`` Who is that fellow , Freda ? ''
Roger inquired crossly , as soon as the door closed .
Freda began to make a fresh pot of chocolate .
She smiled dreamily as if thinking of something pleasant .
`` Why , that was Tim Grayson -- dear old Tim .
He used to live next door to us when we were children .
And we were such chums -- always together , making mud pies , and getting into scrapes .
He is just the same old Tim , and is home from the west for a long visit .
I was so glad to see him again . ''
`` So it would appear , '' said Roger grumpily .
`` Well , now that ` dear old Tim ' is gone , I suppose I can have my own chair , can I ?
And do give me some chocolate .
I did n't know you made taffy . ''
`` Oh , I do n't .
It 's Tim .
He can do everything .
He used to make it long ago , and I washed up after him and helped him eat it .
How is the pursuit of the Ideal coming on , Roger-boy ? ''
Roger did not feel as if he wanted to talk about the Ideal .
He noticed how vivid Freda 's smile was and how lovable were the curves of her neck where the dusky curls were caught up from it .
He had also an inner vision of Freda making taffy with Tim and he did not approve of it .
He refused to talk about the Ideal .
On his way back to town he found himself thinking that Freda had the most charming , glad little laugh of any girl he knew .
He suddenly remembered that he had never heard the Ideal laugh .
She smiled placidly -- he had raved to Freda about that smile -- but she did not laugh .
Roger began to wonder what an ideal without any sense of humour would be like when translated into the real .
He went to Lowlands the next afternoon and found Tim there -- in his chair again .
He detested the fellow but he could not deny that he was good-looking and had charming manners .
Freda was very nice to Tim .
On his way back to town Roger decided that Tim was in love with Freda .
He was furious at the idea .
The presumption of the man !
He also remembered that he had not said a word to Freda about the Ideal .
And he never did say much more -- perhaps because he could not get the chance .
Tim was always there before him and generally outstayed him .
One day when he went out he did not find Freda at home .
Her aunt told him that she was out riding with Mr. Grayson .
On his way back he met them .
As they cantered by , Freda waved her riding whip at him .
Her face was full of warm , ripe , kissable tints , her loose lovelocks were blowing about it , and her eyes shone like grey pools mirroring stars .
Roger turned and watched them out of sight behind the firs that cupped Lowlands .
That night at Mrs. Crandall 's dinner table somebody began to talk about Freda .
Roger strained his ears to listen .
Mrs. Kitty Carr was speaking -- Mrs. Kitty knew everything and everybody .
`` She is simply the most charming girl in the world when you get really acquainted with her , '' said Mrs. Kitty , with the air of having discovered and patented Freda .
`` She is so vivid and unconventional and lovable -- ` spirit and fire and dew , ' you know .
Tim Grayson is a very lucky fellow . ''
`` Are they engaged ? ''
someone asked .
`` Not yet , I fancy .
But of course it is only a question of time .
Tim simply adores her .
He is a good soul and has lots of money , so he 'll do .
But really , you know , I think a prince would n't be good enough for Freda . ''
Roger suddenly became conscious that the Ideal was asking him a question of which he had not heard a word .
He apologized and was forgiven .
But he went home a very miserable man .
He did not go to Lowlands for two weeks .
They were the longest , most wretched two weeks he had ever lived through .
One afternoon he heard that Tim Grayson had gone back west .
Mrs. Kitty told it mournfully .
`` Of course , this means that Freda has refused him , '' she said .
`` She is such an odd girl . ''
Roger went straight out to Lowlands .
He found Freda in the snuggery and held out his hands to her .
`` Freda , will you marry me ?
It will take a lifetime to tell you how much I love you . ''
`` But the Ideal ? ''
questioned Freda .
`` I have just discovered what my ideal is , '' said Roger .
`` She is a dear , loyal , companionable little girl , with the jolliest laugh and the warmest , truest heart in the world .
She has starry grey eyes , two dimples , and a mouth I must and will kiss -- there -- there -- there !
Freda , tell me you love me a little bit , although I 've been such a besotted idiot . ''
`` I will not let you call my husband-that-is-to-be names , '' said Freda , snuggling down into the curve of his shoulder .
`` But indeed , Roger-boy , you will have to make me very , very happy to square matters up .
You have made me so unutterably unhappy for two months . ''
`` The pursuit of the Ideal is ended , '' declared Roger .
The Softening of Miss Cynthia `` I wonder if I 'd better flavour this cake with lemon or vanilla .
It 's the most perplexing thing I ever heard of in my life . ''
Miss Cynthia put down the bottles with a vexed frown ; her perplexity had nothing whatever to do with flavouring the golden mixture in her cake bowl .
Mrs. John Joe knew that ; the latter had dropped in in a flurry of curiosity concerning the little boy whom she had seen about Miss Cynthia 's place for the last two days .
Her daughter Kitty was with her ; they both sat close together on the kitchen sofa .
`` It is too bad , '' said Mrs. John Joe sympathetically .
`` I do n't wonder you are mixed up .
So unexpected , too !
When did he come ? ''
`` Tuesday night , '' said Miss Cynthia .
She had decided on the vanilla and was whipping it briskly in .
`` I saw an express wagon drive into the yard with a boy and a trunk in it and I went out just as he got down .
` Are you my Aunt Cynthia ? '
he said .
` Who in the world are you ? '
I asked .
And he says , ` I 'm Wilbur Merrivale , and my father was John Merrivale .
He died three weeks ago and he said I was to come to you , because you were his sister . '
Well , you could just have knocked me down with a feather ! ''
`` I 'm sure , '' said Mrs. John Joe .
`` But I did n't know you had a brother .
And his name -- Merrivale ? ''
`` Well , he was n't any relation really .
I was about six years old when my father married his mother , the Widow Merrivale .
John was just my age , and we were brought up together just like brother and sister .
He was a real nice fellow , I must say .
But he went out to Californy years ago , and I have n't heard a word of him for fifteen years -- did n't know if he was alive or dead .
But it seems from what I can make out from the boy , that his mother died when he was a baby , and him and John roughed it along together -- pretty poor , too , I guess -- till John took a fever and died .
And he told some of his friends to send the boy to me , for he 'd no relations there and not a cent in the world .
And the child came all the way from Californy , and here he is .
I 've been just distracted ever since .
I 've never been used to children , and to have the house kept in perpetual uproar is more than I can stand .
He 's about twelve and a born mischief .
He 'll tear through the rooms with his dirty feet , and he 's smashed one of my blue vases and torn down a curtain and set Towser on the cat half a dozen times already -- I never was so worried .
I 've got him out on the verandah shelling peas now , to keep him quiet for a little spell . ''
`` I 'm really sorry for you , '' said Mrs. John Joe .
`` But , poor child , I suppose he 's never had anyone to look after him .
And come all the way from Californy alone , too -- he must be real smart . ''
`` Too smart , I guess .
He must take after his mother , whoever she was , for there ai n't a bit of Merrivale in him .
And he 's been brought up pretty rough . ''
`` Well , it 'll be a great responsibility for you , Cynthia , of course .
But he 'll be company , too , and he 'll be real handy to run errands and -- '' '' I 'm not going to keep him , '' said Miss Cynthia determinedly .
Her thin lips set themselves firmly and her voice had a hard ring .
`` Not going to keep him ? ''
said Mrs. John Joe blankly .
`` You ca n't send him back to Californy ! ''
`` I do n't intend to .
But as for having him here to worry my life out and keep me in a perpetual stew , I just wo n't do it .
D'ye think I 'm going to trouble myself about children at my age ?
And all he 'd cost for clothes and schooling , too !
I ca n't afford it .
I do n't suppose his father expected it either .
I suppose he expected me to look after him a bit -- and of course I will .
A boy of his age ought to be able to earn his keep , anyway .
If I look out a place for him somewhere where he can do odd jobs and go to school in the winter , I think it 's all anyone can expect of me , when he ai n't really no blood relation . ''
Miss Cynthia flung the last sentence at Mrs. John Joe rather defiantly , not liking the expression on that lady 's face .
`` I suppose nobody could expect more , Cynthy , '' said Mrs. John Joe deprecatingly .
`` He would be an awful bother , I 've no doubt , and you 've lived alone so long with no one to worry you that you would n't know what to do with him .
Boys are always getting into mischief -- my four just keep me on the dead jump .
Still , it 's a pity for him , poor little fellow !
No mother or father -- it seems hard . ''
Miss Cynthia 's face grew grimmer than ever as she went to the door with her callers and watched them down the garden path .
As soon as Mrs. John Joe saw that the door was shut , she unburdened her mind to her daughter .
`` Did you ever hear tell of the like ?
I thought I knew Cynthia Henderson well , if anybody in Wilmot did , but this beats me .
Just think , Kitty -- there she is , no one knows how rich , and not a soul in the world belonging to her , and she wo n't even take in her brother 's child .
She must be a hard woman .
But it 's just meanness , pure and simple ; she grudges him what he 'd eat and wear .
The poor mite does n't look as if he 'd need much .
Cynthia did n't used to be like that , but it 's growing on her every day .
She 's got hard as rocks . ''
That afternoon Miss Cynthia harnessed her fat grey pony into the phaeton herself -- she kept neither man nor maid , but lived in her big , immaculate house in solitary state -- and drove away down the dusty , buttercup-bordered road , leaving Wilbur sitting on the verandah .
She returned in an hour 's time and drove into the yard , shutting the gate behind her with a vigorous snap .
Wilbur was not in sight and , fearful lest he should be in mischief , she hurriedly tied the pony to the railing and went in search of him .
She found him sitting by the well , his chin in his hands ; he was pale and his eyes were red .
Miss Cynthia hardened her heart and took him into the house .
`` I 've been down to see Mr. Robins this afternoon , Wilbur , '' she said , pretending to brush some invisible dust from the bottom of her nice black cashmere skirt for an excuse to avoid looking at him , `` and he 's agreed to take you on trial .
It 's a real good chance -- better than you could expect .
He says he 'll board and clothe you and let you go to school in the winter . ''
The boy seemed to shrink .
`` Daddy said that I would stay with you , '' he said wistfully .
`` He said you were so good and kind and would love me for his sake . ''
For a moment Miss Cynthia softened .
She had been very fond of her stepbrother ; it seemed that his voice appealed to her across the grave in behalf of his child .
But the crust of years was not to be so easily broken .
`` Your father meant that I would look after you , '' she said , `` and I mean to , but I ca n't afford to keep you here .
You 'll have a good place at Mr. Robins ' , if you behave yourself .
I 'm going to take you down now , before I unharness the pony , so go and wash your face while I put up your things .
Do n't look so woebegone , for pity 's sake !
I 'm not taking you to prison . ''
Wilbur turned and went silently to the kitchen .
Miss Cynthia thought she heard a sob .
She went with a firm step into the little bedroom off the hall and took a purse out of a drawer .
`` I s ` pose I ought , '' she said doubtfully .
`` I do n't s ` pose he has a cent .
I daresay he 'll lose or waste it . ''
She counted out seventy-five cents carefully .
When she came out , Wilbur was at the door .
She put the money awkwardly into his hand .
`` There , see that you do n't spend it on any foolishness . ''
* * * * * Miss Cynthia 's Action made a good deal of talk in Wilmot .
The women , headed by Mrs. John Joe -- who said behind Cynthia 's back what she did not dare say to her face -- condemned her .
The men laughed and said that Cynthia was a shrewd one ; there was no getting round her .
Miss Cynthia herself was far from easy .
She could not forget Wilbur 's wistful eyes , and she had heard that Robins was a hard master .
A week after the boy had gone she saw him one day at the store .
He was lifting heavy bags from a cart .
The work was beyond his strength , and he was flushed and panting .
Miss Cynthia 's conscience gave her a hard stab .
She bought a roll of peppermints and took them over to him .
He thanked her timidly and drove quickly away .
`` Robins has n't any business putting such work on a child , '' she said to herself indignantly .
`` I 'll speak to him about it . ''
And she did -- and got an answer that made her ears tingle .
Mr. Robins bluntly told her he guessed he knew what was what about his hands .
He were n't no nigger driver .
If she was n't satisfied , she might take the boy away as soon as she liked .
Miss Cynthia did not get much comfort out of life that summer .
Almost everywhere she went she was sure to meet Wilbur , engaged in some hard task .
She could not help seeing how miserably pale and thin he had become .
The worry had its effect on her .
The neighbours said that Cynthy was sharper than ever .
Even her church-going was embittered .
She had always enjoyed walking up the aisle with her rich silk skirt rustling over the carpet , her cashmere shawl folded correctly over her shoulders , and her lace bonnet set precisely on her thin shining crimps .
But she could take no pleasure in that or in the sermon now , when Wilbur sat right across from her pew , between hard-featured Robins and his sulky-looking wife .
The boy 's eyes had grown too large for his thin face .
The softening of Miss Cynthia was a very gradual process , but it reached a climax one September morning , when Mrs. John Joe came into the former 's kitchen with an important face .
Miss Cynthia was preserving her plums .
`` No , thank you , I 'll not sit down -- I only run in -- I suppose you 've heard it .
That little Merrivale boy has took awful sick with fever , they say .
He 's been worked half to death this summer -- everyone knows what Robins is with his help -- and they say he has fretted a good deal for his father and been homesick , and he 's run down , I s ` pose .
Anyway , Robins took him over to the hospital at Stanford last night -- good gracious , Cynthy , are you sick ? ''
Miss Cynthia had staggered to a seat by the table ; her face was pallid .
`` No , it 's only your news gave me a turn -- it came so suddenly -- I did n't know . ''
`` I must hurry back and see to the men 's dinners .
I thought I 'd come and tell you , though I did n't know as you 'd care . ''
This parting shot was unheeded by Miss Cynthia .
She laid her face in her hands .
`` It 's a judgement on me , '' she moaned .
`` He 's going to die , and I 'm his murderess .
This is the account I 'll have to give John Merrivale of his boy .
I 've been a wicked , selfish woman , and I 'm justly punished . ''
It was a humbled Miss Cynthia who met the doctor at the hospital that afternoon .
He shook his head at her eager questions .
`` It 's a pretty bad case .
The boy seems run down every way .
No , it is impossible to think of moving him again .
Bringing him here last night did him a great deal of harm .
Yes , you may see him , but he will not know you , I fear -- he is delirious and raves of his father and California . ''
Miss Cynthia followed the doctor down the long ward .
When he paused by a cot , she pushed past him .
Wilbur lay tossing restlessly on his pillow .
He was thin to emaciation , but his cheeks were crimson and his eyes burning bright .
Miss Cynthia stooped and took the hot , dry hands in hers .
`` Wilbur , '' she sobbed , `` do n't you know me -- Aunt Cynthia ? ''
`` You are not my Aunt Cynthia , '' said Wilbur .
`` Daddy said Aunt Cynthia was good and kind -- you are a cross , bad woman .
I want Daddy .
Why does n't he come ?
Why does n't he come to little Wilbur ? ''
Miss Cynthia got up and faced the doctor .
`` He 's got to get better , '' she said stubbornly .
`` Spare no expense or trouble .
If he dies , I will be a murderess .
He must live and give me a chance to make it up for him . ''
And he did live ; but for a long time it was a hard fight , and there were days when it seemed that death must win .
Miss Cynthia got so thin and wan that even Mrs. John Joe pitied her .
The earth seemed to Miss Cynthia to laugh out in prodigal joyousness on the afternoon she drove home when Wilbur had been pronounced out of danger .
How tranquil the hills looked , with warm October sunshine sleeping on their sides and faint blue hazes on their brows !
How gallantly the maples flaunted their crimson flags !
How kind and friendly was every face she met !
Afterwards , Miss Cynthia said she began to live that day .
Wilbur 's recovery was slow .
Every day Miss Cynthia drove over with some dainty , and her loving gentleness sat none the less gracefully on her because of its newness .
Wilbur grew to look for and welcome her coming .
When it was thought safe to remove him , Miss Cynthia went to the hospital with a phaeton-load of shawls and pillows .
`` I have come to take you away , '' she said .
Wilbur shrank back .
`` Not to Mr. Robins , '' he said piteously .
`` Oh , not there , Aunt Cynthia ! ''
Them Notorious Pigs John Harrington was a woman-hater , or thought that he was , which amounts to the same thing .
He was forty-five and , having been handsome in his youth , was a fine-looking man still .
He had a remarkably good farm and was a remarkably good farmer .
He also had a garden which was the pride and delight of his heart or , at least , it was before Mrs. Hayden 's pigs got into it .
Sarah King , Harrington 's aunt and housekeeper , was deaf and crabbed , and very few visitors ever came to the house .
This suited Harrington .
He was a good citizen and did his duty by the community , but his bump of sociability was undeveloped .
He was also a contented man , looking after his farm , improving his stock , and experimenting with new bulbs in undisturbed serenity .
This , however , was all too good to last .
A man is bound to have some troubles in this life , and Harrington 's were near their beginning when Perry Hayden bought the adjoining farm from the heirs of Shakespeare Ely , deceased , and moved in .
To be sure , Perry Hayden , poor fellow , did not bother Harrington much , for he died of pneumonia a month after he came there , but his widow carried on the farm with the assistance of a lank hired boy .
Her own children , Charles and Theodore , commonly known as Bobbles and Ted , were as yet little more than babies .
The real trouble began when Mary Hayden 's pigs , fourteen in number and of half-grown voracity , got into Harrington 's garden .
A railing , a fir grove , and an apple orchard separated the two establishments , but these failed to keep the pigs within bounds .
Harrington had just got his garden planted for the season , and to go out one morning and find a horde of enterprising porkers rooting about in it was , to put it mildly , trying .
He was angry , but as it was a first offence he drove the pigs out with tolerable calmness , mended the fence , and spent the rest of the day repairing damages .
Three days later the pigs got in again .
Harrington relieved his mind by some scathing reflections on women who tried to run farms .
Then he sent Mordecai , his hired man , over to the Hayden place to ask Mrs. Hayden if she would be kind enough to keep her pigs out of his garden .
Mrs. Hayden sent back word that she was very sorry and would not let it occur again .
Nobody , not even John Harrington , could doubt that she meant what she said .
But she had reckoned without the pigs .
They had not forgotten the flavour of Egyptian fleshpots as represented by the succulent young shoots in the Harrington domains .
A week later Mordecai came in and told Harrington that `` them notorious pigs '' were in his garden again .
There is a limit to everyone 's patience .
Harrington left Mordecai to drive them out , while he put on his hat and stalked over to the Haydens ' place .
Ted and Bobbles were playing at marbles in the lane and ran when they saw him coming .
He got close up to the little low house among the apple trees before Mordecai appeared in the yard , driving the pigs around the barn .
Mrs. Hayden was sitting on her doorstep , paring her dinner potatoes , and stood up hastily when she saw her visitor .
Harrington had never seen his neighbour at close quarters before .
Now he could not help seeing that she was a very pretty little woman , with wistful , dark blue eyes and an appealing expression .
Mary Hayden had been next to a beauty in her girlhood , and she had a good deal of her bloom left yet , although hard work and worry were doing their best to rob her of it .
But John Harrington was an angry man and did not care whether the woman in question was pretty or not .
Her pigs had rooted up his garden -- that fact filled his mind .
`` Mrs. Hayden , those pigs of yours have been in my garden again .
I simply ca n't put up with this any longer .
Why in the name of reason do n't you look after your animals better ?
If I find them in again I 'll set my dog on them , I give you fair warning . ''
A faint colour had crept into Mary Hayden 's soft , milky-white cheeks during this tirade , and her voice trembled as she said , `` I 'm very sorry , Mr. Harrington .
I suppose Bobbles forgot to shut the gate of their pen again this morning .
He is so forgetful . ''
`` I 'd lengthen his memory , then , if I were you , '' returned Harrington grimly , supposing that Bobbles was the hired man .
`` I 'm not going to have my garden ruined just because he happens to be forgetful .
I am speaking my mind plainly , madam .
If you ca n't keep your stock from being a nuisance to other people you ought not to try to run a farm at all . ''
Then did Mrs. Hayden sit down upon the doorstep and burst into tears .
Harrington felt , as Sarah King would have expressed it , `` every which way at once . ''
Here was a nice mess !
What a nuisance women were -- worse than the pigs !
`` Oh , do n't cry , Mrs. Hayden , '' he said awkwardly .
`` I did n't mean -- well , I suppose I spoke too strongly .
Of course I know you did n't mean to let the pigs in .
There , do stop crying !
I beg your pardon if I 've hurt your feelings . ''
`` Oh , it is n't that , '' sobbed Mrs. Hayden , wiping away her tears .
`` It 's only -- I 've tried so hard -- and everything seems to go wrong .
I make such mistakes .
As for your garden , sir .
I 'll pay for the damage my pigs have done if you 'll let me know what it comes to . ''
She sobbed again and caught her breath like a grieved child .
Harrington felt like a brute .
He had a queer notion that if he put his arm around her and told her not to worry over things women were not created to attend to he would be expressing his feelings better than in any other way .
But of course he could n't do that .
Instead , he muttered that the damage did n't amount to much after all , and he hoped she would n't mind what he said , and then he got himself away and strode through the orchard like a man in a desperate hurry .
Mordecai had gone home and the pigs were not to be seen , but a chubby little face peeped at him from between two scrub , bloom-white cherry trees .
`` G'way , you bad man ! ''
said Bobbles vindictively .
`` G'way !
You made my mommer cry -- I saw you .
I 'm only Bobbles now , but when I grow up I 'll be Charles Henry Hayden and you wo n't dare to make my mommer cry then . ''
Harrington smiled grimly .
`` So you 're the lad who forgets to shut the pigpen gate , are you ?
Come out here and let me see you .
Who is in there with you ? ''
`` Ted is .
He 's littler than me .
But I wo n't come out .
I do n't like you .
G'way home . ''
Harrington obeyed .
He went home and to work in his garden .
But work as hard as he would , he could not forget Mary Hayden 's grieved face .
`` I was a brute ! ''
he thought .
`` Why could n't I have mentioned the matter gently ?
I daresay she has enough to trouble her .
Confound those pigs ! ''
* * * * * After that there was a time of calm .
Evidently something had been done to Bobbles ' memory or perhaps Mrs. Hayden attended to the gate herself .
At all events the pigs were not seen and Harrington 's garden blossomed like the rose .
But Harrington himself was in a bad state .
For one thing , wherever he looked he saw the mental picture of his neighbour 's tired , sweet face and the tears in her blue eyes .
The original he never saw , which only made matters worse .
He wondered what opinion she had of him and decided that she must think him a cross old bear .
This worried him .
He wished the pigs would break in again so that he might have a chance to show how forbearing he could be .
One day he gathered a nice mess of tender young greens and sent them over to Mrs. Hayden by Mordecai .
At first he had thought of sending her some flowers , but that seemed silly , and besides , Mordecai and flowers were incongruous .
Mrs. Hayden sent back a very pretty message of thanks , whereat Harrington looked radiant and Mordecai , who could see through a stone wall as well as most people , went out to the barn and chuckled .
`` Ef the little widder hai n't caught him !
Who 'd a-thought it ? ''
The next day one adventurous pig found its way alone into the Harrington garden .
Harrington saw it get in and at the same moment he saw Mrs. Hayden running through her orchard .
She was in his yard by the time he got out .
Her sunbonnet had fallen back and some loose tendrils of her auburn hair were curling around her forehead .
Her cheeks were so pink and her eyes so bright from running that she looked almost girlish .
`` Oh , Mr. Harrington , '' she said breathlessly , `` that pet pig of Bobbles ' is in your garden again .
He only got in this minute .
I saw him coming and I ran right after him . ''
`` He 's there , all right , '' said Harrington cheerfully , `` but I 'll get him out in a jiffy .
Do n't tire yourself .
Wo n't you go into the house and rest while I drive him around ? ''
Mrs. Hayden , however , was determined to help and they both went around to the garden , set the gate open , and tried to drive the pig out .
But Harrington was not thinking about pigs , and Mrs. Hayden did not know quite so much about driving them as Mordecai did ; as a consequence they did not make much headway .
In her excitement Mrs. Hayden ran over beds and whatever came in her way , and Harrington , in order to keep near her , ran after her .
Between them they spoiled things about as much as a whole drove of pigs would have done .
But at last the pig grew tired of the fun , bolted out of the gate , and ran across the yard to his own place .
Mrs. Hayden followed slowly and Harrington walked beside her .
`` Those pigs are all to be shut up tomorrow , '' she said .
`` Hiram has been fixing up a place for them in his spare moments and it is ready at last . ''
`` Oh , I would n't , '' said Harrington hastily .
`` It is n't good for pigs to be shut up so young .
You 'd better let them run a while yet . ''
`` No , '' said Mrs. Hayden decidedly .
`` They have almost worried me to death already .
In they go tomorrow . ''
They were at the lane gate now , and Harrington had to open it and let her pass through .
He felt quite desperate as he watched her trip up through the rows of apple trees , her blue gingham skirt brushing the lush grasses where a lacy tangle of sunbeams and shadows lay .
Bobbles and Ted came running to meet her and the three , hand in hand , disappeared from sight .
Harrington went back to the house , feeling that life was flat , stale , and unprofitable .
That evening at the tea table he caught himself wondering what it would be like to see Mary Hayden sitting at his table in place of Sarah King , with Bobbles and Ted on either hand .
Then he found out what was the matter with him .
He was in love , fathoms deep , with the blue-eyed widow !
Presumably the pigs were shut up the next day , for Harrington 's garden was invaded no more .
He stood it for a week and then surrendered at discretion .
He filled a basket with early strawberries and went across to the Hayden place , boldly enough to all appearance , but with his heart thumping like any schoolboy 's .
The front door stood hospitably open , flanked by rows of defiant red and yellow hollyhocks .
Harrington paused on the step , with his hand outstretched to knock .
Somewhere inside he heard a low sobbing .
Forgetting all about knocking , he stepped softly in and walked to the door of the little sitting-room .
Bobbles was standing behind him in the middle of the kitchen but Harrington did not see him .
He was looking at Mary Hayden , who was sitting by the table in the room with her arms flung out over it and her head bowed on them .
She was crying softly in a hopeless fashion .
Harrington put down his strawberries .
`` Mary ! ''
he exclaimed .
Mrs. Hayden straightened herself up with a start and looked at him , her lips quivering and her eyes full of tears .
`` What is the matter ? ''
said Harrington anxiously .
`` Is anything wrong ? ''
`` Oh , nothing much , '' Said Mrs. Hayden , trying to recover herself .
`` Yes , there is too .
But it is very foolish of me to be going on like this .
I did n't know anyone was near .
And I was feeling so discouraged .
The colt broke his leg in the swamp pasture today and Hiram had to shoot him .
It was Ted 's colt .
But there , there is no use in crying over it . ''
And by way of proving this , the poor , tired , overburdened little woman began to cry again .
She was past caring whether Harrington saw her or not .
The woman-hater was so distressed that he forgot to be nervous .
He sat down and put his arm around her and spoke out what was in his mind without further parley .
`` Do n't cry , Mary .
Listen to me .
You were never meant to run a farm and be killed with worry .
You ought to be looked after and petted .
I want you to marry me and then everything will be all right .
I 've loved you ever since that day I came over here and made you cry .
Do you think you can like me a little , Mary ? ''
It may be that Mrs. Hayden was not very much surprised , because Harrington 's face had been like an open book the day they chased the pig out of the garden together .
As for what she said , perhaps Bobbles , who was surreptitiously gorging himself on Harrington 's strawberries , may tell you , but I certainly shall not .
The little brown house among the apple trees is shut up now and the boundary fence belongs to ancient history .
Sarah King has gone also and Mrs. John Harrington reigns royally in her place .
Bobbles and Ted have a small , blue-eyed , much-spoiled sister , and there is a pig on the estate who may die of old age , but will never meet his doom otherwise .
It is Bobbles ' pig and one of the famous fourteen .
Mordecai still shambles around and worships Mrs. Harrington .
The garden is the same as of yore , but the house is a different place and Harrington is a different man .
And Mordecai will tell you with a chuckle , `` It was them notorious pigs as did it all . ''
Why Not Ask Miss Price ?
Frances Allen came in from the post office and laid an open letter on the table beside her mother , who was making mincemeat .
Alma Allen looked up from the cake she was frosting to ask , `` What is the matter ?
You look as if your letter contained unwelcome news , Fan . ''
`` So it does .
It is from Aunt Clara , to say she can not come .
She has received a telegram that her sister-in-law is very ill and she must go to her at once . ''
Mrs. Allen looked regretful , and Alma cast her spoon away with a tragic air .
`` That is too bad .
I feel as if our celebration were spoiled .
But I suppose it ca n't be helped . ''
`` No , '' agreed Frances , sitting down and beginning to peel apples .
`` So there is no use in lamenting , or I would certainly sit down and cry , I feel so disappointed . ''
`` Is Uncle Frank coming ? ''
`` Yes , Aunt Clara says he will come down from Stellarton if Mrs. King does not get worse .
So that will leave just one vacant place .
We must invite someone to fill it up .
Who shall it be ? ''
Both girls looked rather puzzled .
Mrs. Allen smiled a quiet little smile all to herself and went on chopping suet .
She had handed the Thanksgiving dinner over to Frances and Alma this year .
They were to attend to all the preparations and invite all the guests .
But although they had made or planned several innovations in the dinner itself , they had made no change in the usual list of guests .
`` It must just be the time-honoured family affair , '' Frances had declared .
`` If we begin inviting other folks , there is no knowing when to draw the line .
We ca n't have more than fourteen , and some of our friends would be sure to feel slighted . ''
So the same old list it was .
But now Aunt Clara -- dear , jolly Aunt Clara , whom everybody in the connection loved and admired -- could not come , and her place must be filled .
`` We ca n't invite the new minister , because we would have to have his sister , too , '' said Frances .
`` And there is no reason for asking any one of our girl chums more than another . ''
`` Mother , you will have to help us out , '' said Alma .
`` Ca n't you suggest a substitute guest ? ''
Mrs. Allen looked down at the two bright , girlish faces turned up to her and said slowly , `` I think I can , but I am not sure my choice will please you .
Why not ask Miss Price ? ''
Miss Price !
They had never thought of her !
She was the pale , timid-looking little teacher in the primary department of the Hazelwood school .
`` Miss Price ? ''
repeated Frances slowly .
`` Why , Mother , we hardly know her .
She is dreadfully dull and quiet , I think . ''
`` And so shy , '' said Alma .
`` Why , at the Wards ' party the other night she looked startled to death if anyone spoke to her .
I believe she would be frightened to come here for Thanksgiving . ''
`` She is a very lonely little creature , '' said Mrs. Allen gently , `` and does n't seem to have anyone belonging to her .
I think she would be very glad to get an invitation to spend Thanksgiving elsewhere than in that cheerless little boarding-house where she lives . ''
`` Of course , if you would like to have her , Mother , we will ask her , '' said Frances .
`` No , girls , '' said Mrs. Allen seriously .
`` You must not ask Miss Price on my account , if you do not feel prepared to make her welcome for her own sake .
I had hoped that your own kind hearts might have prompted you to extend a little Thanksgiving cheer in a truly Thanksgiving spirit to a lonely , hard-working girl whose life I do not think is a happy one .
But there , I shall not preach .
This is your dinner , and you must please yourselves as to your guests . ''
Frances and Alma had both flushed , and they now remained silent for a few minutes .
Then Frances sprang up and threw her arms around her mother .
`` You 're right , Mother dear , as you always are , and we are very selfish girls .
We will ask Miss Price and try to give her a nice time .
I 'll go down this very evening and see her . ''
* * * * * In the grey twilight of the chilly autumn evening Bertha Price walked home to her boarding-house , her pale little face paler , and her grey eyes sadder than ever , in the fading light .
Only two days until Thanksgiving -- but there would be no real Thanksgiving for her .
Why , she asked herself rebelliously , when there seemed so much love in the world , was she denied her share ?
Her landlady met her in the hall .
`` Miss Allen is in the parlour , Miss Price .
She wants to see you . ''
Bertha went into the parlour somewhat reluctantly .
She had met Frances Allen only once or twice and she was secretly almost afraid of the handsome , vivacious girl who was so different from herself .
`` I am sorry you have had to wait , Miss Allen , '' she said shyly .
`` I went to see a pupil of mine who is ill and I was kept later than I expected . ''
`` My errand wo n't take very long , '' said Frances brightly .
`` Mother wants you to spend Thanksgiving Day with us , Miss Price , if you have no other engagement .
We will have a few other guests , but nobody outside our own family except Mr. Seeley , who is the law partner and intimate friend of my brother Ernest in town .
You 'll come , wo n't you ? ''
`` Oh , thank you , yes , '' said Bertha , in pleased surprise .
`` I shall be very glad to go .
Why , it is so nice to think of it .
I expected my Thanksgiving Day to be lonely and sad -- not a bit Thanksgivingy . ''
`` We shall expect you then , '' said Frances , with a cordial little hand-squeeze .
`` Come early in the morning , and we will have a real friendly , pleasant day . ''
That night Frances said to her mother and sister , `` You never saw such a transfigured face as Miss Price 's when I asked her up .
She looked positively pretty -- such a lovely pink came out on her cheeks and her eyes shone like stars .
She reminded me so much of somebody I 've seen , but I ca n't think who it is .
I 'm so glad we 've asked her here for Thanksgiving ! ''
* * * * * Thanksgiving came , as bright and beautiful as a day could be , and the Allens ' guests came with it .
Bertha Price was among them , paler and shyer than ever .
Ernest Allen and his friend , Maxwell Seeley , came out from town on the morning train .
After all the necessary introductions had been made , Frances flew to the kitchen .
`` I 've found out who it is Miss Price reminds me of , '' she said , as she bustled about the range .
`` It 's Max Seeley .
You need n't laugh , Al. .
It 's a fact .
I noticed it the minute I introduced them .
He 's plump and prosperous and she 's pinched and pale , but there 's a resemblance nevertheless .
Look for yourself and see if it is n't so . ''
Back in the big , cheery parlour the Thanksgiving guests were amusing themselves in various ways .
Max Seeley had given an odd little start when he was introduced to Miss Price , and as soon as possible he followed her to the corner where she had taken refuge .
Ernest Allen was out in the kitchen talking to his sisters , the `` uncles and cousins and aunts '' were all chattering to each other , and Mr. Seeley and Miss Price were quite unnoticed .
`` You will excuse me , wo n't you , Miss Price , if I ask you something about yourself ? ''
he said eagerly .
`` The truth is , you look so strikingly like someone I used to know that I feel sure you must be related to her .
I do not think I have any relatives of your name .
Have you any of mine ? ''
Bertha flushed , hesitated for an instant , then said frankly , `` No , I do not think so .
But I may as well tell you that Price is not my real name and I do not know what it is , although I think it begins with S. I believe that my parents died when I was about three years old , and I was then taken to an orphan asylum .
The next year I was taken from there and adopted by Mrs. Price .
She was very kind to me and treated me as her own daughter .
I had a happy home with her , although we were poor .
Mrs. Price wished me to bear her name , and I did so .
She never told me my true surname , perhaps she did not know it .
She died when I was sixteen , and since then I have been quite alone in the world .
That is all I know about myself . ''
Max Seeley was plainly excited .
`` Why do you think your real name begins with S ? ''
he asked .
`` I have a watch which belonged to my mother , with the monogram ` B.S. ' on the case .
It was left with the matron of the asylum and she gave it to Mrs. Price for me .
Here it is . ''
Max Seeley almost snatched the old-fashioned little silver watch , from her hand and opened the case .
An exclamation escaped him as he pointed to some scratches on the inner side .
They looked like the initials M.A.S. `` Let me tell my story now , '' he said .
`` My name is Maxwell Seeley .
My father died when I was seven years old , and my mother a year later .
My little sister , Bertha , then three years old , and I were left quite alone and very poor .
We had no relatives .
I was adopted by a well-to-do old bachelor , who had known my father .
My sister was taken to an orphan asylum in a city some distance away .
I was very much attached to her and grieved bitterly over our parting .
My adopted father was very kind to me and gave me a good education .
I did not forget my sister , and as soon as I could I went to the asylum .
I found that she had been taken away long before , and I could not even discover who had adopted her , for the original building , with all its records , had been destroyed by fire two years previous to my visit .
I never could find any clue to her whereabouts , and long since gave up all hope of finding her .
But I have found her at last .
You are Bertha Seeley , my little sister ! ''
`` Oh -- can it be possible ! ''
`` More than possible -- it is certain .
You are the image of my mother , as I remember her , and as an old daguerreotype I have pictures her .
And this is her watch -- see , I scratched my own initials on the case one day .
There is no doubt in the world .
Oh , Bertha , are you half as glad as I am ? ''
`` Glad ! ''
Bertha 's eyes were shining like stars .
She tried to smile , but burst into tears instead and her head went down on her brother 's shoulder .
By this time everybody in the room was staring at the extraordinary tableau , and Ernest , coming through the hall , gave a whistle of astonishment that brought the two in the corner back to a sense of their surroundings .
`` I have n't suddenly gone crazy , Ernest , old fellow , '' smiled Max .
`` Ladies and gentlemen all , this little school-ma ` am was introduced to you as Miss Price , but that was a mistake .
Let me introduce her again as Miss Bertha Seeley , my long-lost and newly-found sister . ''
Well they had an amazing time then , of course .
They laughed and questioned and explained until the dinner was in imminent danger of getting stone-cold on the dining-room table .
Luckily , Alma and Frances remembered it just in the nick of time , and they all got out , somehow , and into their places .
It was a splendid dinner , but I believe that Maxwell and Bertha Seeley did n't know what they were eating , any more than if it had been sawdust .
However , the rest of the guests made up for that , and did full justice to the girls ' cookery .
In the afternoon they all went to church , and at least two hearts were truly and devoutly thankful that day .
When the dusk came , Ernest and Maxwell had to catch the last train for town , and the other guests went home , with the exception of Bertha , who was to stay all night .
Just as soon as her resignation could be effected , she was to join her brother .
`` Meanwhile , I 'll see about getting a house to put you in , '' said Max .
`` No more boarding out for me , Ernest .
You may consider me as a family man henceforth . ''
Frances and Alma talked it all over before they went to sleep that night .
`` Just think , '' said Frances , `` if we had n't asked her here today she might never have found her brother !
It 's all Mother 's doing , bless her !
Things do happen like a storybook sometimes , do n't they , Al ?
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories,_1905_to_1906.txt.out
A Correspondence and A Climax At sunset Sidney hurried to her room to take off the soiled and faded cotton dress she had worn while milking .
She had milked eight cows and pumped water for the milk-cans afterward in the fag-end of a hot summer day .
She did that every night , but tonight she had hurried more than usual because she wanted to get her letter written before the early farm bedtime .
She had been thinking it out while she milked the cows in the stuffy little pen behind the barn .
This monthly letter was the only pleasure and stimulant in her life .
Existence would have been , so Sidney thought , a dreary , unbearable blank without it .
She cast aside her milking-dress with a thrill of distaste that tingled to her rosy fingertips .
As she slipped into her blue-print afternoon dress her aunt called to her from below .
Sidney ran out to the dark little entry and leaned over the stair railing .
Below in the kitchen there was a hubbub of laughing , crying , quarrelling children , and a reek of bad tobacco smoke drifted up to the girl 's disgusted nostrils .
Aunt Jane was standing at the foot of the stairs with a lamp in one hand and a year-old baby clinging to the other .
She was a big shapeless woman with a round good-natured face -- cheerful and vulgar as a sunflower was Aunt Jane at all times and occasions .
`` I want to run over and see how Mrs. Brixby is this evening , Siddy , and you must take care of the baby till I get back . ''
Sidney sighed and went downstairs for the baby .
It never would have occurred to her to protest or be petulant about it .
She had all her aunt 's sweetness of disposition , if she resembled her in nothing else .
She had not grumbled because she had to rise at four that morning , get breakfast , milk the cows , bake bread , prepare seven children for school , get dinner , preserve twenty quarts of strawberries , get tea , and milk the cows again .
All her days were alike as far as hard work and dullness went , but she accepted them cheerfully and uncomplainingly .
But she did resent having to look after the baby when she wanted to write her letter .
She carried the baby to her room , spread a quilt on the floor for him to sit on , and gave him a box of empty spools to play with .
Fortunately he was a phlegmatic infant , fond of staying in one place , and not given to roaming about in search of adventures ; but Sidney knew she would have to keep an eye on him , and it would be distracting to literary effort .
She got out her box of paper and sat down by the little table at the window with a small kerosene lamp at her elbow .
The room was small -- a mere box above the kitchen which Sidney shared with two small cousins .
Her bed and the cot where the little girls slept filled up almost all the available space .
The furniture was poor , but everything was neat -- it was the only neat room in the house , indeed , for tidiness was no besetting virtue of Aunt Jane 's .
Opposite Sidney was a small muslined and befrilled toilet-table , above which hung an eight-by-six-inch mirror , in which Sidney saw herself reflected as she devoutly hoped other people did not see her .
Just at that particular angle one eye appeared to be as large as an orange , while the other was the size of a pea , and the mouth zigzagged from ear to ear .
Sidney hated that mirror as virulently as she could hate anything .
It seemed to her to typify all that was unlovely in her life .
The mirror of existence into which her fresh young soul had looked for twenty years gave back to her wistful gaze just such distortions of fair hopes and ideals .
Half of the little table by which she sat was piled high with books -- old books , evidently well read and well-bred books , classics of fiction and verse every one of them , and all bearing on the flyleaf the name of Sidney Richmond , thereby meaning not the girl at the table , but her college-bred young father who had died the day before she was born .
Her mother had died the day after , and Sidney thereupon had come into the hands of good Aunt Jane , with those books for her dowry , since nothing else was left after the expenses of the double funeral had been paid .
One of the books had Sidney Richmond 's name printed on the title-page instead of written on the flyleaf .
It was a thick little volume of poems , published in his college days -- musical , unsubstantial , pretty little poems , every one of which the girl Sidney loved and knew by heart .
Sidney dropped her pointed chin in her hands and looked dreamily out into the moonlit night , while she thought her letter out a little more fully before beginning to write .
Her big brown eyes were full of wistfulness and romance ; for Sidney was romantic , albeit a faithful and understanding acquaintance with her father 's books had given to her romance refinement and reason , and the delicacy of her own nature had imparted to it a self-respecting bias .
Presently she began to write , with a flush of real excitement on her face .
In the middle of things the baby choked on a small twist spool and Sidney had to catch him up by the heels and hold him head downward until the trouble was ejected .
Then she had to soothe him , and finally write the rest of her letter holding him on one arm and protecting the epistle from the grabs of his sticky little fingers .
It was certainly letter-writing under difficulties , but Sidney seemed to deal with them mechanically .
Her soul and understanding were elsewhere .
Four years before , when Sidney was sixteen , still calling herself a schoolgirl by reason of the fact that she could be spared to attend school four months in the winter when work was slack , she had been much interested in the `` Maple Leaf '' department of the Montreal weekly her uncle took .
It was a page given over to youthful Canadians and filled with their contributions in the way of letters , verses , and prize essays .
Noms de plume were signed to these , badges were sent to those who joined the Maple Leaf Club , and a general delightful sense of mystery pervaded the department .
Often a letter concluded with a request to the club members to correspond with the writer .
One such request went from Sidney under the pen-name of `` Ellen Douglas . ''
The girl was lonely in Plainfield ; she had no companions or associates such as she cared for ; the Maple Leaf Club represented all that her life held of outward interest , and she longed for something more .
Only one answer came to `` Ellen Douglas , '' and that was forwarded to her by the long-suffering editor of `` The Maple Leaf . ''
It was from John Lincoln of the Bar N Ranch , Alberta .
He wrote that , although his age debarred him from membership in the club -LRB- he was twenty , and the limit was eighteen -RRB- , he read the letters of the department with much interest , and often had thought of answering some of the requests for correspondents .
He never had done so , but `` Ellen Douglas 's '' letter was so interesting that he had decided to write to her .
Would she be kind enough to correspond with him ?
Life on the Bar N , ten miles from the outposts of civilization , was lonely .
He was two years out from the east , and had not yet forgotten to be homesick at times .
Sidney liked the letter and answered it .
Since then they had written to each other regularly .
There was nothing sentimental , hinted at or implied , in the correspondence .
Whatever the faults of Sidney 's romantic visions were , they did not tend to precocious flirtation .
The Plainfield boys , attracted by her beauty and repelled by her indifference and aloofness , could have told that .
She never expected to meet John Lincoln , nor did she wish to do so .
In the correspondence itself she found her pleasure .
John Lincoln wrote breezy accounts of ranch life and adventures on the far western plains , so alien and remote from snug , humdrum Plainfield life that Sidney always had the sensation of crossing a gulf when she opened a letter from the Bar N .
As for Sidney 's own letter , this is the way it read as she wrote it : `` The Evergreens , '' Plainfield .
Dear Mr. Lincoln : The very best letter I can write in the half-hour before the carriage will be at the door to take me to Mrs. Braddon 's dance shall be yours tonight .
I am sitting here in the library arrayed in my smartest , newest , whitest , silkiest gown , with a string of pearls which Uncle James gave me today about my throat -- the dear , glistening , sheeny things !
And I am looking forward to the `` dances and delight '' of the evening with keen anticipation .
You asked me in your last letter if I did not sometimes grow weary of my endless round of dances and dinners and social functions .
No , no , never !
I enjoy every one of them , every minute of them .
I love life and its bloom and brilliancy ; I love meeting new people ; I love the ripple of music , the hum of laughter and conversation .
Every morning when I awaken the new day seems to me to be a good fairy who will bring me some beautiful gift of joy .
The gift she gave me today was my sunset gallop on my grey mare Lady .
The thrill of it is in my veins yet .
I distanced the others who rode with me and led the homeward canter alone , rocking along a dark , gleaming road , shadowy with tall firs and pines , whose balsam made all the air resinous around me .
Before me was a long valley filled with purple dusk , and beyond it meadows of sunset and great lakes of saffron and rose where a soul might lose itself in colour .
On my right was the harbour , silvered over with a rising moon .
Oh , it was all glorious -- the clear air with its salt-sea tang , the aroma of the pines , the laughter of my friends behind me , the spring and rhythm of Lady 's grey satin body beneath me !
I wanted to ride on so forever , straight into the heart of the sunset .
Then home and to dinner .
We have a houseful of guests at present -- one of them an old statesman with a massive silver head , and eyes that have looked into people 's thoughts so long that you have an uncanny feeling that they can see right through your soul and read motives you dare not avow even to yourself .
I was terribly in awe of him at first , but when I got acquainted with him I found him charming .
He is not above talking delightful nonsense even to a girl .
I sat by him at dinner , and he talked to me -- not nonsense , either , this time .
He told me of his political contests and diplomatic battles ; he was wise and witty and whimsical .
I felt as if I were drinking some rare , stimulating mental wine .
What a privilege it is to meet such men and take a peep through their wise eyes at the fascinating game of empire-building !
I met another clever man a few evenings ago .
A lot of us went for a sail on the harbour .
Mrs. Braddon 's house party came too .
We had three big white boats that skimmed down the moonlit channel like great white sea birds .
There was another boat far across the harbour , and the people in it were singing .
The music drifted over the water to us , so sad and sweet and beguiling that I could have cried for very pleasure .
One of Mrs. Braddon 's guests said to me : `` That is the soul of music with all its sense and earthliness refined away . ''
I had n't thought about him before -- I had n't even caught his name in the general introduction .
He was a tall , slight man , with a worn , sensitive face and iron-grey hair -- a quiet man who had n't laughed or talked .
But he began to talk to me then , and I forgot all about the others .
I never had listened to anybody in the least like him .
He talked of books and music , of art and travel .
He had been all over the world , and had seen everything everybody else had seen and everything they had n't too , I think .
I seemed to be looking into an enchanted mirror where all my own dreams and ideals were reflected back to me , but made , oh , so much more beautiful !
On my way home after the Braddon people had left us somebody asked me how I liked Paul Moore !
The man I had been talking with was Paul Moore , the great novelist !
I was almost glad I had n't known it while he was talking to me -- I should have been too awed and reverential to have really enjoyed his conversation .
As it was , I had contradicted him twice , and he had laughed and liked it .
But his books will always have a new meaning to me henceforth , through the insight he himself has given me .
It is such meetings as these that give life its sparkle for me .
But much of its abiding sweetness comes from my friendship with Margaret Raleigh .
You will be weary of my rhapsodies over her .
But she is such a rare and wonderful woman ; much older then I am , but so young in heart and soul and freshness of feeling !
She is to me mother and sister and wise , clear-sighted friend .
To her I go with all my perplexities and hopes and triumphs .
She has sympathy and understanding for my every mood .
I love life so much for giving me such a friendship !
This morning I wakened at dawn and stole away to the shore before anyone else was up .
I had a delightful run-away .
The long , low-lying meadows between `` The Evergreens '' and the shore were dewy and fresh in that first light , that was as fine and purely tinted as the heart of one of my white roses .
On the beach the water was purring in little blue ripples , and , oh , the sunrise out there beyond the harbour !
All the eastern Heaven was abloom with it .
And there was a wind that came dancing and whistling up the channel to replace the beautiful silence with a music more beautiful still .
The rest of the folks were just coming downstairs when I got back to breakfast .
They were all yawny , and some were grumpy , but I had washed my being in the sunrise and felt as blithesome as the day .
Oh , life is so good to live !
Tomorrow Uncle James 's new vessel , the White Lady , is to be launched .
We are going to make a festive occasion of it , and I am to christen her with a bottle of cobwebby old wine .
But I hear the carriage , and Aunt Jane is calling me .
I had a great deal more to say -- about your letter , your big `` round-up '' and your tribulations with your Chinese cook -- but I 've only time now to say goodbye .
You wish me a lovely time at the dance and a full programme , do n't you ?
Yours sincerely , Sidney Richmond .
Aunt Jane came home presently and carried away her sleeping baby .
Sidney said her prayers , went to bed , and slept soundly and serenely .
She mailed her letter the next day , and a month later an answer came .
Sidney read it as soon as she left the post office , and walked the rest of the way home as in a nightmare , staring straight ahead of her with wide-open , unseeing brown eyes .
John Lincoln 's letter was short , but the pertinent paragraph of it burned itself into Sidney 's brain .
He wrote : I am going east for a visit .
It is six years since I was home , and it seems like three times six .
I shall go by the C.P.R. , which passes through Plainfield , and I mean to stop off for a day .
You will let me call and see you , wo n't you ?
I shall have to take your permission for granted , as I shall be gone before a letter from you can reach the Bar N. I leave for the east in five days , and shall look forward to our meeting with all possible interest and pleasure .
Sidney did not sleep that night , but tossed restlessly about or cried in her pillow .
She was so pallid and hollow-eyed the next morning that Aunt Jane noticed it , and asked her what the matter was .
`` Nothing , '' said Sidney sharply .
Sidney had never spoken sharply to her aunt before .
The good woman shook her head .
She was afraid the child was `` taking something . ''
`` Do n't do much today , Siddy , '' she said kindly .
`` Just lie around and take it easy till you get rested up .
I 'll fix you a dose of quinine . ''
Sidney refused to lie around and take it easy .
She swallowed the quinine meekly enough , but she worked fiercely all day , hunting out superfluous tasks to do .
That night she slept the sleep of exhaustion , but her dreams were unenviable and the awakening was terrible .
Any day , any hour , might bring John Lincoln to Plainfield .
What should she do ?
Hide from him ?
Refuse to see him ?
But he would find out the truth just the same ; she would lose his friendships and respect just as surely .
Sidney trod the way of the transgressor , and found that its thorns pierced to bone and marrow .
Everything had come to an end -- nothing was left to her !
In the untried recklessness of twenty untempered years she wished she could die before John Lincoln came to Plainfield .
The eyes of youth could not see how she could possibly live afterward .
* * * * * Some days later a young man stepped from the C.P.R. train at Plainfield station and found his way to the one small hotel the place boasted .
After getting his supper he asked the proprietor if he could direct him to `` The Evergreens . ''
Caleb Williams looked at his guest in bewilderment .
`` Never heerd o ' such a place , '' he said .
`` It is the name of Mr. Conway 's estate -- Mr. James Conway , '' explained John Lincoln .
`` Oh , Jim Conway 's place ! ''
said Caleb .
`` Did n't know that was what he called it .
Sartin I kin tell you whar ' to find it .
You see that road out thar ' ?
Well , just follow it straight along for a mile and a half till you come to a blacksmith 's forge .
Jim Conway 's house is just this side of it on the right -- back from the road a smart piece and no other handy .
You ca n't mistake it . ''
John Lincoln did not expect to mistake it , once he found it ; he knew by heart what it appeared like from Sidney 's description : an old stately mansion of mellowed brick , covered with ivy and set back from the highway amid fine ancestral trees , with a pine-grove behind it , a river to the left , and a harbour beyond .
He strode along the road in the warm , ruddy sunshine of early evening .
It was not a bad-looking road at all ; the farmsteads sprinkled along it were for the most part snug and wholesome enough ; yet somehow it was different from what he had expected it to be .
And there was no harbour or glimpse of distant sea visible .
Had the hotel-keeper made a mistake ?
Perhaps he had meant some other James Conway .
Presently he found himself before the blacksmith 's forge .
Beside it was a rickety , unpainted gate opening into a snake-fenced lane feathered here and there with scrubby little spruces .
It ran down a bare hill , crossed a little ravine full of young white-stemmed birches , and up another bare hill to an equally bare crest where a farmhouse was perched -- a farmhouse painted a stark , staring yellow and the ugliest thing in farmhouses that John Lincoln had ever seen , even among the log shacks of the west .
He knew now that he had been misdirected , but as there seemed to be nobody about the forge he concluded that he had better go to the yellow house and inquire within .
He passed down the lane and over the little rustic bridge that spanned the brook .
Just beyond was another home-made gate of poles .
Lincoln opened it , or rather he had his hand on the hasp of twisted withes which secured it , when he was suddenly arrested by the apparition of a girl , who flashed around the curve of young birch beyond and stood before him with panting breath and quivering lips .
`` I beg your pardon , '' said John Lincoln courteously , dropping the gate and lifting his hat .
`` I am looking for the house of Mr. James Conway -- ` The Evergreens . '
Can you direct me to it ? ''
`` That is Mr. James Conway 's house , '' said the girl , with the tragic air and tone of one driven to desperation and an impatient gesture of her hand toward the yellow nightmare above them .
`` I do n't think he can be the one I mean , '' said Lincoln perplexedly .
`` The man I am thinking of has a niece , Miss Richmond . ''
`` There is no other James Conway in Plainfield , '' said the girl .
`` This is his place -- nobody calls it ` The Evergreens ' but myself .
I am Sidney Richmond . ''
For a moment they looked at each other across the gate , sheer amazement and bewilderment holding John Lincoln mute .
Sidney , burning with shame , saw that this stranger was exceedingly good to look upon -- tall , clean-limbed , broad-shouldered , with clear-cut bronzed features and a chin and eyes that would have done honour to any man .
John Lincoln , among all his confused sensations , was aware that this slim , agitated young creature before him was the loveliest thing he ever had seen , so lithe was her figure , so glossy and dark and silken her bare , wind-ruffled hair , so big and brown and appealing her eyes , so delicately oval her flushed cheeks .
He felt that she was frightened and in trouble , and he wanted to comfort and reassure her .
But how could she be Sidney Richmond ?
`` I do n't understand , '' he said perplexedly .
`` Oh ! ''
Sidney threw out her hands in a burst of passionate protest .
`` No , and you never will understand -- I ca n't make you understand . ''
`` I do n't understand , '' said John Lincoln again .
`` Can you be Sidney Richmond -- the Sidney Richmond who has written to me for four years ? ''
`` I am . ''
`` Then , those letters -- '' `` Were all lies , '' said Sidney bluntly and desperately .
`` There was nothing true in them -- nothing at all .
This is my home .
We are poor .
Everything I told you about it and my life was just imagination . ''
`` Then why did you write them ? ''
he asked blankly .
`` Why did you deceive me ? ''
`` Oh , I did n't mean to deceive you !
I never thought of such a thing .
When you asked me to write to you I wanted to , but I did n't know what to write about to a stranger .
I just could n't write you about my life here , not because it was hard , but it was so ugly and empty .
So I wrote instead of the life I wanted to live -- the life I did live in imagination .
And when once I had begun , I had to keep it up .
I found it so fascinating , too !
Those letters made that other life seem real to me .
I never expected to meet you .
These last four days since your letter came have been dreadful to me .
Oh , please go away and forgive me if you can !
I know I can never make you understand how it came about . ''
Sidney turned away and hid her burning face against the cool white bark of the birch tree behind her .
It was worse than she had even thought it would be .
He was so handsome , so manly , so earnest-eyed !
Oh , what a friend to lose !
John Lincoln opened the gate and went up to her .
There was a great tenderness in his face , mingled with a little kindly , friendly amusement .
`` Please do n't distress yourself so , Sidney , '' he said , unconsciously using her Christian name .
`` I think I do understand .
I 'm not such a dull fellow as you take me for .
After all , those letters were true -- or , rather , there was truth in them .
You revealed yourself more faithfully in them than if you had written truly about your narrow outward life . ''
Sidney turned her flushed face and wet eyes slowly toward him , a little smile struggling out amid the clouds of woe .
This young man was certainly good at understanding .
`` You -- you 'll forgive me then ? ''
she stammered .
`` Yes , if there is anything to forgive .
And for my own part , I am glad you are not what I have always thought you were .
If I had come here and found you what I expected , living in such a home as I expected , I never could have told you or even thought of telling you what you have come to mean to me in these lonely years during which your letters have been the things most eagerly looked forward to .
I should have come this evening and spent an hour or so with you , and then have gone away on the train tomorrow morning , and that would have been all .
`` But I find instead just a dreamy romantic little girl , much like my sisters at home , except that she is a great deal cleverer .
And as a result I mean to stay a week at Plainfield and come to see you every day , if you will let me .
And on my way back to the Bar N I mean to stop off at Plainfield again for another week , and then I shall tell you something more -- something it would be a little too bold to say now , perhaps , although I could say it just as well and truly .
All this if I may .
May I , Sidney ? ''
He bent forward and looked earnestly into her face .
Sidney felt a new , curious , inexplicable thrill at her heart .
`` Oh , yes .
-- I suppose so , '' she said shyly .
`` Now , take me up to the house and introduce me to your Aunt Jane , '' said John Lincoln in satisfied tone .
An Adventure on Island Rock `` Who was the man I saw talking to you in the hayfield ? ''
asked Aunt Kate , as Uncle Richard came to dinner .
`` Bob Marks , '' said Uncle Richard briefly .
`` I 've sold Laddie to him . ''
Ernest Hughes , the twelve-year-old orphan boy whom Uncle `` boarded and kept '' for the chores he did , suddenly stopped eating .
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson , you 're not going to sell Laddie ? ''
he cried chokily .
Uncle Richard stared at him .
Never before , in the five years that Ernest had lived with him , had the quiet little fellow spoken without being spoken to , much less ventured to protest against anything Uncle Richard might do .
`` Certainly I am , '' answered the latter curtly .
`` Bob offered me twenty dollars for the dog , and he 's coming after him next week . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson , '' said Ernest , rising to his feet , his small , freckled face crimson .
`` Oh , do n't sell Laddie !
Please , Mr. Lawson , do n't sell him ! ''
`` What nonsense is this ? ''
said Uncle Richard sharply .
He was a man who brooked no opposition from anybody , and who never changed his mind when it was once made up .
`` Do n't sell Laddie ! ''
pleaded Ernest miserably .
`` He is the only friend I 've got .
I ca n't live if Laddie goes away .
Oh , do n't sell him , Mr. Lawson ! ''
`` Sit down and hold your tongue , '' said Uncle Richard sternly .
`` The dog is mine , and I shall do with him as I think fit .
He is sold , and that is all there is about it .
Go on with your dinner . ''
But Ernest for the first time did not obey .
He snatched his cap from the back of his chair , dashed it down over his eyes , and ran from the kitchen with a sob choking his breath .
Uncle Richard looked angry , but Aunt Kate hastened to soothe him .
`` Do n't be vexed with the boy , Richard , '' she said .
`` You know he is very fond of Laddie .
He 's had to do with him ever since he was a pup , and no doubt he feels badly at the thought of losing him .
I 'm rather sorry myself that you have sold the dog . ''
`` Well , he is sold and there 's an end of it .
I do n't say but that the dog is a good dog .
But he is of no use to us , and twenty dollars will come in mighty handy just now .
He 's worth that to Bob , for he is a good watch dog , so we 've both made a fair bargain . ''
Nothing more was said about Ernest or Laddie .
I had taken no part in the discussion , for I felt no great interest in the matter .
Laddie was a nice dog ; Ernest was a quiet , inoffensive little fellow , five years younger than myself ; that was all I thought about either of them .
I was spending my vacation at Uncle Richard 's farm on the Nova Scotian Bay of Fundy shore .
I was a great favourite with Uncle Richard , partly because he had been much attached to my mother , his only sister , partly because of my strong resemblance to his only son , who had died several years before .
Uncle Richard was a stern , undemonstrative man , but I knew that he entertained a deep and real affection for me , and I always enjoyed my vacation sojourns at his place .
`` What are you going to do this afternoon , Ned ? ''
he asked , after the disturbance caused by Ernest 's outbreak had quieted down .
`` I think I 'll row out to Island Rock , '' I replied .
`` I want to take some views of the shore from it . ''
Uncle Richard nodded .
He was much interested in my new camera .
`` If you 're on it about four o'clock , you 'll get a fine view of the ` Hole in the Wall ' when the sun begins to shine on the water through it , '' he said .
`` I 've often thought it would make a handsome picture . ''
`` After I 've finished taking the pictures , I think I 'll go down shore to Uncle Adam 's and stay all night , '' I said .
`` Jim 's dark room is more convenient than mine , and he has some pictures he is going to develop tonight , too . ''
I started for the shore about two o'clock .
Ernest was sitting on the woodpile as I passed through the yard , with his arms about Laddie 's neck and his face buried in Laddie 's curly hair .
Laddie was a handsome and intelligent black-and-white Newfoundland , with a magnificent coat .
He and Ernest were great chums .
I felt sorry for the boy who was to lose his pet .
`` Do n't take it so hard , Ern , '' I said , trying to comfort him .
`` Uncle will likely get another pup . ''
`` I do n't want any other pup ! ''
Ernest blurted out .
`` Oh , Ned , wo n't you try and coax your uncle not to sell him ?
Perhaps he 'd listen to you . ''
I shook my head .
I knew Uncle Richard too well to hope that .
`` Not in this case , Ern , '' I said .
`` He would say it did not concern me , and you know nothing moves him when he determines on a thing .
You 'll have to reconcile yourself to losing Laddie , I 'm afraid . ''
Ernest 's tow-coloured head went down on Laddie 's neck again , and I , deciding that there was no use in saying anything more , proceeded towards the shore , which was about a mile from Uncle Richard 's house .
The beach along his farm and for several farms along shore was a lonely , untenanted one , for the fisher-folk all lived two miles further down , at Rowley 's Cove .
About three hundred yards from the shore was the peculiar formation known as Island Rock .
This was a large rock that stood abruptly up out of the water .
Below , about the usual water-line , it was seamed and fissured , but its summit rose up in a narrow , flat-topped peak .
At low tide twenty feet of it was above water , but at high tide it was six feet and often more under water .
I pushed Uncle Richard 's small flat down the rough path and rowed out to Island Rock .
Arriving there , I thrust the painter deep into a narrow cleft .
This was the usual way of mooring it , and no doubt of its safety occurred to me .
I scrambled up the rock and around to the eastern end , where there was a broader space for standing and from which some capital views could be obtained .
The sea about the rock was calm , but there was quite a swell on and an off-shore breeze was blowing .
There were no boats visible .
The tide was low , leaving bare the curious caves and headlands along shore , and I secured a number of excellent snapshots .
It was now three o'clock .
I must wait another hour yet before I could get the best view of the `` Hole in the Wall '' -- a huge , arch-like opening through a jutting headland to the west of me .
I went around to look at it , when I saw a sight that made me stop short in dismay .
This was nothing less than the flat , drifting outward around the point .
The swell and suction of the water around the rock must have pulled her loose -- and I was a prisoner !
At first my only feeling was one of annoyance .
Then a thought flashed into my mind that made me dizzy with fear .
The tide would be high that night .
If I could not escape from Island Rock I would inevitably be drowned .
I sat down limply on a ledge and tried to look matters fairly in the face .
I could not swim ; calls for help could not reach anybody ; my only hope lay in the chance of somebody passing down the shore or of some boat appearing .
I looked at my watch .
It was a quarter past three .
The tide would begin to turn about five , but it would be at least ten before the rock would be covered .
I had , then , little more than six hours to live unless rescued .
The flat was by this time out of sight around the point .
I hoped that the sight of an empty flat drifting down shore might attract someone 's attention and lead to investigation .
That seemed to be my only hope .
No alarm would be felt at Uncle Richard 's because of my non-appearance .
They would suppose I had gone to Uncle Adam 's .
I have heard of time seeming long to a person in my predicament , but to me it seemed fairly to fly , for every moment decreased my chance of rescue .
I determined I would not give way to cowardly fear , so , with a murmured prayer for help , I set myself to the task of waiting for death as bravely as possible .
At intervals I shouted as loudly as I could and , when the sun came to the proper angle for the best view of the `` Hole in the Wall , '' I took the picture .
It afterwards turned out to be a great success , but I have never been able to look at it without a shudder .
At five the tide began to come in .
Very , very slowly the water rose around Island Rock .
Up , up , up it came , while I watched it with fascinated eyes , feeling like a rat in a trap .
The sun fell lower and lower ; at eight o'clock the moon rose large and bright ; at nine it was a lovely night , dear , calm , bright as day , and the water was swishing over the highest ledge of the rock .
With some difficulty I climbed to the top and sat there to await the end .
I had no longer any hope of rescue but , by a great effort , I preserved self-control .
If I had to die , I would at least face death staunchly .
But when I thought of my mother at home , it tasked all my energies to keep from breaking down utterly .
Suddenly I heard a whistle .
Never was sound so sweet .
I stood up and peered eagerly shoreward .
Coming around the `` Hole in the Wall '' headland , on top of the cliffs , I saw a boy and a dog .
I sent a wild halloo ringing shoreward .
The boy started , stopped and looked out towards Island Rock .
The next moment he hailed me .
It was Ernest 's voice , and it was Laddie who was barking beside him .
`` Ernest , '' I shouted wildly , `` run for help -- quick !
quick !
The tide will be over the rock in half an hour !
Hurry , or you will be too late ! ''
Instead of starting off at full speed , as I expected him to do , Ernest stood still for a moment , and then began to pick his steps down a narrow path over the cliff , followed by Laddie .
`` Ernest , '' I shouted frantically , `` what are you doing ?
Why do n't you go for help ? ''
Ernest had by this time reached a narrow ledge of rock just above the water-line .
I noticed that he was carrying something over his arm .
`` It would take too long , '' he shouted .
`` By the time I got to the Cove and a boat could row back here , you 'd be drowned .
Laddie and I will save you .
Is there anything there you can tie a rope to ?
I 've a coil of rope here that I think will be long enough to reach you .
I 've been down to the Cove and Alec Martin sent it up to your uncle . ''
I looked about me ; a smooth , round hole had been worn clean through a thin part of the apex of the rock .
`` I could fasten the rope if I had it ! ''
I called .
`` But how can you get it to me ? ''
For answer Ernest tied a bit of driftwood to the rope and put it into Laddie 's mouth .
The next minute the dog was swimming out to me .
As soon as he came close I caught the rope .
It was just long enough to stretch from shore to rock , allowing for a couple of hitches which Ernest gave around a small boulder on the ledge .
I tied my camera case on my head by means of some string I found in my pocket , then I slipped into the water and , holding to the rope , went hand over hand to the shore with Laddie swimming beside me .
Ernest held on to the shoreward end of the rope like grim death , a task that was no light one for his small arms .
When I finally scrambled up beside him , his face was dripping with perspiration and he trembled like a leaf .
`` Ern , you are a brick ! ''
I exclaimed .
`` You 've saved my life ! ''
`` No , it was Laddie , '' said Ernest , refusing to take any credit at all .
We hurried home and arrived at Uncle Richard 's about ten , just as they were going to bed .
When Uncle Richard heard what had happened , he turned very pale , and murmured , `` Thank God ! ''
Aunt Kate got me out of my wet clothes as quickly as possible , put me away to bed in hot blankets and dosed me with ginger tea .
I slept like a top and felt none the worse for my experience the next morning .
At the breakfast table Uncle Richard scarcely spoke .
But , just as we finished , he said abruptly to Ernest , `` I 'm not going to sell Laddie .
You and the dog saved Ned 's life between you , and no dog who helped do that is ever going to be sold by me .
Henceforth he belongs to you .
I give him to you for your very own . ''
`` Oh , Mr. Lawson ! ''
said Ernest , with shining eyes .
I never saw a boy look so happy .
As for Laddie , who was sitting beside him with his shaggy head on Ernest 's knee , I really believe the dog understood , too .
The look in his eyes was almost human .
Uncle Richard leaned over and patted him .
`` Good dog ! ''
he said .
`` Good dog ! ''
At Five O'Clock in the Morning Fate , in the guise of Mrs. Emory dropping a milk-can on the platform under his open window , awakened Murray that morning .
Had not Mrs. Emory dropped that can , he would have slumbered peacefully until his usual hour for rising -- a late one , be it admitted , for of all the boarders at Sweetbriar Cottage Murray was the most irregular in his habits .
`` When a young man , '' Mrs. Emory was wont to remark sagely and a trifle severely , `` prowls about that pond half of the night , a-chasing of things what he calls ` moonlight effecks , ' it ai n't to be wondered at that he 's sleepy in the morning .
And it ai n't the convenientest thing , nuther and noways , to keep the breakfast table set till the farm folks are thinking of dinner .
But them artist men are not like other people , say what you will , and allowance has to be made for them .
And I must say that I likes him real well and approves of him every other way . ''
If Murray had slept late that morning -- well , he shudders yet over that `` if . ''
But aforesaid Fate saw to it that he woke when the hour of destiny and the milk-can struck , and having awakened he found he could not go to sleep again .
It suddenly occurred to him that he had never seen a sunrise on the pond .
Doubtless it would be very lovely down there in those dewy meadows at such a primitive hour ; he decided to get up and see what the world looked like in the young daylight .
He scowled at a letter lying on his dressing table and thrust it into his pocket that it might be out of sight .
He had written it the night before and the writing of it was going to cost him several things -- a prospective million among others .
So it is hardly to be wondered at if the sight of it did not reconcile him to the joys of early rising .
`` Dear life and heart ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. Emory , pausing in the act of scalding a milk-can when Murray emerged from a side door .
`` What on earth is the matter , Mr. Murray ?
You ai n't sick now , surely ?
I told you them pond fogs was p ` isen after night !
If you 've gone and got -- '' `` Nothing is the matter , dear lady , '' interrupted Murray , `` and I have n't gone and got anything except an acute attack of early rising which is not in the least likely to become chronic .
But at what hour of the night do you get up , you wonderful woman ?
Or rather do you ever go to bed at all ?
Here is the sun only beginning to rise and -- positively yes , you have all your cows milked . ''
Mrs. Emory purred with delight .
`` Folks as has fourteen cows to milk has to rise betimes , '' she answered with proud humility .
`` Laws , I do n't complain -- I 've lots of help with the milking .
How Mrs. Palmer manages , I really can not comperhend -- or rather , how she has managed .
I suppose she 'll be all right now since her niece came last night .
I saw her posting to the pond pasture not ten minutes ago .
She 'll have to milk all them seven cows herself .
But dear life and heart !
Here I be palavering away and not a bite of breakfast ready for you ! ''
`` I do n't want any breakfast until the regular time for it , '' assured Murray .
`` I 'm going down to the pond to see the sun rise . ''
`` Now do n't you go and get caught in the ma ` sh , '' anxiously called Mrs. Emory , as she never failed to do when she saw him starting for the pond .
Nobody ever had got caught in the marsh , but Mrs. Emory lived in a chronic state of fear lest someone should .
`` And if you once got stuck in that black mud you 'd be sucked right down and never seen or heard tell of again till the day of judgment , like Adam Palmer 's cow , '' she was wont to warn her boarders .
Murray sought his favourite spot for pond dreaming -- a bloomy corner of the pasture that ran down into the blue water , with a dump of leafy maples on the left .
He was very glad he had risen early .
A miracle was being worked before his very eyes .
The world was in a flush and tremor of maiden loveliness , instinct with all the marvellous fleeting charm of girlhood and spring and young morning .
Overhead the sky was a vast high-sprung arch of unstained crystal .
Down over the sand dunes , where the pond ran out into the sea , was a great arc of primrose smitten through with auroral crimsonings .
Beneath it the pond waters shimmered with a hundred fairy hues , but just before him they were clear as a flawless mirror .
The fields around him glistened with dews , and a little wandering wind , blowing lightly from some bourne in the hills , strayed down over the slopes , bringing with it an unimaginable odour and freshness , and fluttered over the pond , leaving a little path of dancing silver ripples across the mirror-glory of the water .
Birds were singing in the beech woods over on Orchard Knob Farm , answering to each other from shore to shore , until the very air was tremulous with the elfin music of this wonderful midsummer dawn .
`` I will get up at sunrise every morning of my life hereafter , '' exclaimed Murray rapturously , not meaning a syllable of it , but devoutly believing he did .
Just as the fiery disc of the sun peered over the sand dunes Murray heard music that was not of the birds .
It was a girl 's voice singing beyond the maples to his left -- a clear sweet voice , blithely trilling out the old-fashioned song , `` Five O'Clock in the Morning . ''
`` Mrs. Palmer 's niece ! ''
Murray sprang to his feet and tiptoed cautiously through the maples .
He had heard so much from Mrs. Palmer about her niece that he felt reasonably well acquainted with her .
Moreover , Mrs. Palmer had assured him that Mollie was a very pretty girl .
Now a pretty girl milking cows at sunrise in the meadows sounded well .
Mrs. Palmer had not over-rated her niece 's beauty .
Murray said so to himself with a little whistle of amazement as he leaned unseen on the pasture fence and looked at the girl who was milking a placid Jersey less than ten yards away from him .
Murray 's artistic instinct responded to the whole scene with a thrill of satisfaction .
He could see only her profile , but that was perfect , and the colouring of the oval cheek and the beautiful curve of the chin were something to adore .
Her hair , ruffled into lovable little ringlets by the morning wind , was coiled in glistening chestnut masses high on her bare head , and her arms , bare to the elbow , were as white as marble .
Presently she began to sing again , and this time Murray joined in .
She half rose from her milking stool and cast a startled glance at the maples .
Then she dropped back again and began to milk determinedly , but Murray could have sworn that he saw a demure smile hovering about her lips .
That , and the revelation of her full face , decided him .
He sprang over the fence and sauntered across the intervening space of lush clover blossoms .
`` Good morning , '' he said coolly .
He had forgotten her other name , and it did not matter ; at five o'clock in the morning people who met in dewy clover fields might disregard the conventionalities .
`` Is n't it rather a large contract for you to be milking seven cows all alone ?
May I help you ? ''
Mollie looked up at him over her shoulder .
She had glorious grey eyes .
Her face was serene and undisturbed .
`` Can you milk ? ''
she asked .
`` Unlikely as it may seem , I can , '' said Murray .
`` I have never confessed it to Mrs. Emory , because I was afraid she would inveigle me into milking her fourteen cows .
But I do n't mind helping you .
I learned to milk when I was a shaver on my vacations at a grandfatherly farm .
May I have that extra pail ? ''
Murray captured a milking stool and rounded up another Jersey .
Before sitting down he seemed struck with an idea .
`` My name is Arnold Murray .
I board at Sweetbriar Cottage , next farm to Orchard Knob .
That makes us near neighbours . ''
`` I suppose it does , '' said Mollie .
Murray mentally decided that her voice was the sweetest he had ever heard .
He was glad he had arranged his cow at such an angle that he could study her profile .
It was amazing that Mrs. Palmer 's niece should have such a profile .
It looked as if centuries of fine breeding were responsible for it .
`` What a morning ! ''
he said enthusiastically .
`` It harks back to the days when earth was young .
They must have had just such mornings as this in Eden . ''
`` Do you always get up so early ? ''
asked Mollie practically .
`` Always , '' said Murray without a blush .
Then -- `` But no , that is a fib , and I can not tell fibs to you .
The truth is your tribute .
I never get up early .
It was fate that roused me and brought me here this morning .
The morning is a miracle -- and you , I might suppose you were born of the sunrise , if Mrs. Palmer had n't told me all about you . ''
`` What did she tell you about me ? ''
asked Mollie , changing cows .
Murray discovered that she was tall and that the big blue print apron shrouded a singularly graceful figure .
`` She said you were the best-looking girl in Bruce county .
I have seen very few of the girls in Bruce county , but I know she is right . ''
`` That compliment is not nearly so pretty as the sunrise one , '' said Mollie reflectively .
`` Mrs. Palmer has told me things about you , '' she added .
`` Curiosity knows no gender , '' hinted Murray .
`` She said you were good-looking and lazy and different from other people . ''
`` All compliments , '' said Murray in a gratified tone .
`` Lazy ? ''
`` Certainly .
Laziness is a virtue in these strenuous days , I was not born with it , but I have painstakingly acquired it , and I am proud of my success .
I have time to enjoy life . ''
`` I think that I like you , '' said Mollie .
`` You have the merit of being able to enter into a situation , '' he assured her .
When the last Jersey was milked they carried the pails down to the spring where the creamers were sunk and strained the milk into them .
Murray washed the pails and Mollie wiped them and set them in a gleaming row on the shelf under a big maple .
`` Thank you , '' she said .
`` You are not going yet , '' said Murray resolutely .
`` The time I saved you in milking three cows belongs to me .
We will spend it in a walk along the pond shore .
I will show you a path I have discovered under the beeches .
It is just wide enough for two .
Come . ''
He took her hand and drew her through the copse into a green lane , where the ferns grew thickly on either side and the pond waters plashed dreamily below them .
He kept her hand in his as they went down the path , and she did not try to withdraw it .
About them was the great , pure silence of the morning , faintly threaded with caressing sounds -- croon of birds , gurgle of waters , sough of wind .
The spirit of youth and love hovered over them and they spoke no word .
When they finally came out on a little green nook swimming in early sunshine and arched over by maples , with the wide shimmer of the pond before it and the gold dust of blossoms over the grass , the girl drew a long breath of delight .
`` It is a morning left over from Eden , is n't it ? ''
said Murray .
`` Yes , '' said Mollie softly .
Murray bent toward her .
`` You are Eve , '' he said .
`` You are the only woman in the world -- for me .
Adam must have told Eve just what he thought about her the first time he saw her .
There were no conventionalities in Eden -- and people could not have taken long to make up their minds .
We are in Eden just now .
One can say what he thinks in Eden without being ridiculous .
You are divinely fair , Eve .
Your eyes are stars of the morning -- your cheek has the flush it stole from the sunrise-your lips are redder than the roses of paradise .
And I love you , Eve . ''
Mollie lowered her eyes and the long fringe of her lashes lay in a burnished semi-circle on her cheek .
`` I think , '' she said slowly , `` that it must have been very delightful in Eden .
But we are not really there , you know -- we are only playing that we are .
And it is time for me to go back .
I must get the breakfast -- that sounds too prosaic for paradise . ''
Murray bent still closer .
`` Before we remember that we are only playing at paradise , will you kiss me , dear Eve ? ''
`` You are very audacious , '' said Mollie coldly .
`` We are in Eden yet , '' he urged .
`` That makes all the difference . ''
`` Well , '' said Mollie .
And Murray kissed her .
They had passed back over the fern path and were in the pasture before either spoke again .
Then Murray said , `` We have left Eden behind -- but we can always return there when we will .
And although we were only playing at paradise , I was not playing at love .
I meant all I said , Mollie . ''
`` Have you meant it often ? ''
asked Mollie significantly .
`` I never meant it -- or even played at it -- before , '' he answered .
`` I did -- at one time -- contemplate the possibility of playing at it .
But that was long ago -- as long ago as last night .
I am glad to the core of my soul that I decided against it before I met you , dear Eve .
I have the letter of decision in my coat pocket this moment .
I mean to mail it this afternoon . '' ''
` Curiosity knows no gender , ' '' quoted Mollie .
`` Then , to satisfy your curiosity , I must bore you with some personal history .
My parents died when I was a little chap , and my uncle brought me up .
He has been immensely good to me , but he is a bit of a tyrant .
Recently he picked out a wife for me -- the daughter of an old sweetheart of his .
I have never even seen her .
But she has arrived in town on a visit to some relatives there .
Uncle Dick wrote to me to return home at once and pay my court to the lady ; I protested .
He wrote again -- a letter , short and the reverse of sweet .
If I refused to do my best to win Miss Mannering he would disown me -- never speak to me again -- cut me off with a quarter .
Uncle always means what he says -- that is one of our family traits , you understand .
I spent some miserable , undecided days .
It was not the threat of disinheritance that worried me , although when you have been brought up to regard yourself as a prospective millionaire it is rather difficult to adjust your vision to a pauper focus .
But it was the thought of alienating Uncle Dick .
I love the dear , determined old chap like a father .
But last night my guardian angel was with me and I decided to remain my own man .
So I wrote to Uncle Dick , respectfully but firmly declining to become a candidate for Miss Mannering 's hand . ''
`` But you have never seen her , '' said Mollie .
`` She may be -- almost -- charming . '' ''
` If she be not fair to me , what care I how fair she be ? ' ''
quoted Murray .
`` As you say , she may be -- almost charming ; but she is not Eve .
She is merely one of a million other women , as far as I am concerned .
Do n't let 's talk of her .
Let us talk only of ourselves -- there is nothing else that is half so interesting . ''
`` And will your uncle really cast you off ? ''
asked Mollie .
`` Not a doubt of it . ''
`` What will you do ? ''
`` Work , dear Eve .
My carefully acquired laziness must be thrown to the winds and I shall work .
That is the rule outside of Eden .
Do n't worry .
I 've painted pictures that have actually been sold .
I 'll make a living for us somehow . ''
`` Us ? ''
`` Of course .
You are engaged to me . ''
`` I am not , '' said Mollie indignantly .
`` Mollie !
Mollie !
After that kiss !
Fie , fie ! ''
`` You are very absurd , '' said Mollie , `` But your absurdity has been amusing .
I have -- yes , positively -- I have enjoyed your Eden comedy .
But now you must not come any further with me .
My aunt might not approve .
Here is my path to Orchard Knob farmhouse .
There , I presume , is yours to Sweetbriar Cottage .
Good morning . ''
`` I am coming over to see you this afternoon , '' said Murray coolly .
`` But you need n't be afraid .
I will not tell tales out of Eden .
I will be a hypocrite and pretend to Mrs. Palmer that we have never met before .
But you and I will know and remember .
Now , you may go .
I reserve to myself the privilege of standing here and watching you out of sight . ''
* * * * * That afternoon Murray strolled over to Orchard Knob , going into the kitchen without knocking as was the habit in that free and easy world .
Mrs. Palmer was lying on the lounge with a pungent handkerchief bound about her head , but keeping a vigilant eye on a very pretty , very plump brown-eyed girl who was stirring a kettleful of cherry preserve on the range .
`` Good afternoon , Mrs. Palmer , '' said Murray , wondering where Mollie was .
`` I 'm sorry to see that you look something like an invalid . ''
`` I 've a raging , ramping headache , '' said Mrs. Palmer solemnly .
`` I had it all night and I 'm good for nothing .
Mollie , you 'd better take them cherries off .
Mr. Murray , this is my niece , Mollie Booth . ''
`` What ? ''
said Murray explosively .
`` Miss Mollie Booth , '' repeated Mrs. Palmer in a louder tone .
Murray regained outward self-control and bowed to the blushing Mollie .
`` And what about Eve ? ''
he thought helplessly .
`` Who -- what was she ?
Did I dream her ?
Was she a phantom of delight ?
No , no , phantoms do n't milk cows .
She was flesh and blood .
No chilly nymph exhaling from the mists of the marsh could have given a kiss like that . ''
`` Mollie has come to stay the rest of the summer with me , '' said Mrs. Palmer .
`` I hope to goodness my tribulations with hired girls is over at last .
They have made a wreck of me . ''
Murray rapidly reflected .
This development , he decided , released him from his promise to tell no tales .
`` I met a young lady down in the pond pasture this morning , '' he said deliberately .
`` I talked with her for a few minutes .
I supposed her to be your niece .
Who was she ? ''
`` Oh , that was Miss Mannering , '' said Mrs. Palmer .
`` What ? ''
said Murray again .
`` Mannering -- Dora Mannering , '' said Mrs. Palmer loudly , wondering if Mr. Murray were losing his hearing .
`` She came here last night just to see me .
I have n't seen her since she was a child of twelve .
I used to be her nurse before I was married .
I was that proud to think she thought it worth her while to look me up .
And , mind you , this morning , when she found me crippled with headache and not able to do a hand 's turn , that girl , Mr. Murray , went and milked seven cows '' -- `` only four , '' murmured Murray , but Mrs. Palmer did not hear him -- `` for me .
Could n't prevent her .
She said she had learned to milk for fun one summer when she was in the country , and she did it .
And then she got breakfast for the men -- Mollie did n't come till the ten o'clock train .
Miss Mannering is as capable as if she had been riz on a farm . ''
`` Where is she now ? ''
demanded Murray .
`` Oh , she 's gone . ''
`` What ? ''
`` Gone , '' shouted Mrs. Palmer , `` gone .
She left on the train Mollie come on .
Gracious me , has the man gone crazy ?
He has n't seemed like himself at all this afternoon . ''
Murray had bolted madly out of the house and was striding down the lane .
Blind fool -- unspeakable idiot that he had been !
To take her for Mrs. Palmer 's niece -- that peerless creature with the calm acceptance of any situation , which marked the woman of the world , with the fine appreciation and quickness of repartee that spoke of generations of culture -- to imagine that she could be Mollie Booth !
He had been blind , besottedly blind .
And now he had lost her !
She would never forgive him ; she had gone without a word or sign .
As he reached the last curve of the lane where it looped about the apple trees , a plump figure came flying down the orchard slope .
`` Mr. Murray , Mr. Murray , '' Mollie Booth called breathlessly .
`` Will you please come here just a minute ? ''
Murray crossed over to the paling rather grumpily .
He did not want to talk with Mollie Booth just then .
Confound it , what did the girl want ?
Why was she looking so mysterious ?
Mollie produced a little square grey envelope from some feminine hiding place and handed it over the paling .
`` She give me this at the station -- Miss Mannering did , '' she gasped , `` and asked me to give it to you without letting Aunt Emily Jane see .
I could n't get a chanst when you was in , but as soon as you went I slipped out by the porch door and followed you .
You went so fast I near died trying to head you off . ''
`` You dear little soul , '' said Murray , suddenly radiant .
`` It is too bad you have had to put yourself so out of breath on my account .
But I am immensely obliged to you .
The next time your young man wants a trusty private messenger just refer him to me . ''
`` Git away with you , '' giggled Mollie .
`` I must hurry back ` fore Aunt Emily Jane gits wind I 'm gone .
I hope there 's good news in your girl 's letter .
My , but did n't you look flat when Aunt said she 'd went ! ''
Murray beamed at her idiotically .
When she had vanished among the trees he opened his letter .
`` Dear Mr. Murray , '' it ran , `` your unblushing audacity of the morning deserves some punishment .
I hereby punish you by prompt departure from Orchard Knob .
Yet I do not dislike audacity , at some times , in some places , in some people .
It is only from a sense of duty that I punish it in this case .
And it was really pleasant in Eden .
If you do not mail that letter , and if you still persist in your very absurd interpretation of the meaning of Eve 's kiss , we may meet again in town .
Until then I remain , `` Very sincerely yours , `` Dora Lynne Mannering . ''
Murray kissed the grey letter and put it tenderly away in his pocket .
Then he took his letter to his uncle and tore it into tiny fragments .
Finally he looked at his watch .
`` If I hurry , I can catch the afternoon train to town , '' he said .
Aunt Susanna 's Birthday Celebration Good afternoon , Nora May .
I 'm real glad to see you .
I 've been watching you coming down the hill and I hoping you 'd turn in at our gate .
Going to visit with me this afternoon ?
That 's good .
I 'm feeling so happy and delighted and I 've been hankering for someone to tell it all to .
Tell you about it ?
Well , I guess I might as well .
It ai n't any breach of confidence .
You did n't know Anne Douglas ?
She taught school here three years ago , afore your folks moved over from Talcott .
She belonged up Montrose way and she was only eighteen when she came here to teach .
She boarded with us and her and me were the greatest chums .
She was just a sweet girl .
She was the prettiest teacher we ever had , and that 's saying a good deal , for Springdale has always been noted for getting good-looking schoolmarms , just as Miller 's Road is noted for its humly ones .
Anne had yards of brown wavy hair and big , dark blue eyes .
Her face was kind o ' pale , but when she smiled you would have to smile too , if you 'd been chief mourner at your own funeral .
She was a well-spring of joy in the house , and we all loved her .
Gilbert Martin began to drive her the very first week she was here .
Gilbert is my sister Julia 's son , and a fine young fellow he is .
It ai n't good manners to brag of your own relations , but I 'm always forgetting and doing it .
Gil was a great pet of mine .
He was so bright and nice-mannered everybody liked him .
Him and Anne were a fine-looking couple , Nora May .
Not but what they had their shortcomings .
Anne 's nose was a mite too long and Gil had a crooked mouth .
Besides , they was both pretty proud and sperrited and high-strung .
But they thought an awful lot of each other .
It made me feel young again to see 'em .
Anne was n't a mossel vain , but nights she expected Gil she 'd prink for hours afore her glass , fixing her hair this way and that , and trying on all her good clothes to see which become her most .
I used to love her for it .
And I used to love to see the way Gil 's face would light up when she came into a room or place where he was .
Amanda Perkins , she says to me once , `` Anne Douglas and Gil Martin are most terrible struck on each other . ''
And she said it in a tone that indicated that it was a dreadful disgraceful and unbecoming state of affairs .
Amanda had a disappointment once and it soured her .
I immediately responded , `` Yes , they are most terrible struck on each other , '' and I said it in a tone that indicated I thought it a most beautiful and lovely thing that they should be so .
And so it was .
You 're rather too young to be thinking of such things , Nora May , but you 'll remember my words when the time comes .
Another nephew of mine , James Ebenezer Lawson -- he calls himself James E. back there in town , and I do n't blame him , for I never could stand Ebenezer for a name myself ; but that 's neither here nor there .
Well , he said their love was idyllic , I ai n't very sure what that means .
I looked it up in the dictionary after James Ebenezer left -- I would n't display my ignorance afore him -- but I ca n't say that I was much the wiser for it .
Anyway , it meant something real nice ; I was sure of that by the way James Ebenezer spoke and the wistful look in his eyes .
James Ebenezer is n't married ; he was to have been , and she died a month afore the wedding day .
He was never the same man again .
Well , to get back to Gilbert and Anne .
When Anne 's school year ended in June she resigned and went home to get ready to be married .
The wedding was to be in September , and I promised Anne faithful I 'd go over to Montrose in August for two weeks and help her to get her quilts ready .
Anne thought that nobody could quilt like me .
I was as tickled as a girl at the thought of visiting with Anne for two weeks , but I never went ; things happened before August .
I do n't know rightly how the trouble began .
Other folks -- jealous folks -- made mischief .
Anne was thirty miles away and Gilbert could n't see her every day to keep matters clear and fair .
Besides , as I 've said , they were both proud and high-sperrited .
The upshot of it was they had a terrible quarrel and the engagement was broken .
When two people do n't care overly much for each other , Nora May , a quarrel never amounts to much between them , and it 's soon made up .
But when they love each other better than life it cuts so deep and hurts so much that nine times out of ten they wo n't ever forgive each other .
The more you love anybody , Nora May , the more he can hurt you .
To be sure , you 're too young to be thinking of such things .
It all came like a thunderclap on Gil 's friends here at Greendale , because we had n't ever suspected things were going wrong .
The first thing we knew was that Anne had gone up west to teach school again at St. Mary 's , eighty miles away , and Gilbert , he went out to Manitoba on a harvest excursion and stayed there .
It just about broke his parents ' hearts .
He was their only child and they just worshipped him .
Gil and Anne both wrote to me off and on , but never a word , not so much as a name , did they say of each other .
I 'd ` a ' writ and asked 'em the rights of the fuss if I could , in hopes of patching it up , but I ca n't write now -- my hand is too shaky -- and mebbe it was just as well , for meddling is terribly risky work in a love trouble , Nora May .
Ninety-nine times out of a hundred the last state of a meddler and them she meddles with is worse than the first .
So I just set tight and said nothing , while everybody else in the clan was talking Anne and Gil sixty words to the minute .
Well , last birthday morning I was feeling terrible disperrited .
I had made up my mind that my birthday was always to be a good thing for other people , and there did n't seem one blessed thing I could do to make anybody glad .
Emma Matilda and George and the children were all well and happy and wanted for nothing that I could give them .
I begun to be afraid I 'd lived long enough , Nora May .
When a woman gets to the point where she ca n't give a gift of joy to anyone , there ai n't much use in her living .
I felt real old and worn out and useless .
I was sitting here under these very trees -- they was just budding out in leaf then , as young and cheerful as if they was n't a hundred years old .
And I sighed right out loud and said , `` Oh , Grandpa Holland , it 's time I was put away up on the hill there with you . ''
And with that the gate banged and there was Nancy Jane Whitmore 's boy , Sam , with two letters for me .
One was from Anne up at St. Mary 's and the other was from Gil out in Manitoba .
I read Anne 's first .
She just struck right into things in the first paragraph .
She said her year at St. Mary 's was nearly up , and when it was she meant to quit teaching and go away to New York and learn to be a trained nurse .
She said she was just broken-hearted about Gilbert , and would always love him to the day of her death .
But she knew he did n't care anything more about her after the way he had acted , and there was nothing left for her in life but to do something for other people , and so on and so on , for twelve mortal pages .
Anne is a fine writer , and I just cried like a babe over that letter , it was so touching , although I was enjoying myself hugely all the time , I was so delighted to find out that Anne loved Gilbert still .
I was getting skeered she did n't , her letters all winter had been so kind of jokey and frivolous , all about the good times she was having , and the parties she went to , and the new dresses she got .
New dresses !
When I read that letter of Anne 's , I knew that all the purple and fine linen in the world was just like so much sackcloth and ashes to her as long as Gilbert was sulking out on a prairie farm .
Well , I wiped my eyes and polished up my specs , but I might have spared myself the trouble , for in five minutes , Nora May , there was I sobbing again ; over Gilbert 's letter .
By the most curious coincidence he had opened his heart to me too .
Being a man , he was n't so discursive as Anne ; he said his say in four pages , but I could read the heartache between the lines .
He wrote that he was going to Klondike and would start in a month 's time .
He was sick of living now that he 'd lost Anne .
He said he loved her better than his life and always would , and could never forget her , but he knew she did n't care anything about him now after the way she 'd acted , and he wanted to get as far away from her and the torturing thought of her as he could .
So he was going to Klondike -- going to Klondike , Nora May , when his mother was writing to him to come home every week and Anne was breaking her heart for him at St. Mary 's .
Well , I folded up them letters and , says I , `` Grandpa Holland , I guess my birthday celebration is here ready to hand . ''
I thought real hard .
I could n't write myself to explain to those two people that they each thought the world of each other still -- my hands are too stiff ; and I could n't get anyone else to write because I could n't let out what they 'd told me in confidence .
So I did a mean , dishonourable thing , Nora May .
I sent Anne 's letter to Gilbert and Gilbert 's to Anne .
I asked Emma Matilda to address them , and Emma Matilda did it and asked no questions .
I brought her up that way .
Then I settled down to wait .
In less than a month Gilbert 's mother had a letter from him saying that he was coming home to settle down and marry Anne .
He arrived home yesterday and last night Anne came to Springdale on her way home from St. Mary 's .
They came to see me this morning and said things to me I ai n't going to repeat because they would sound fearful vain .
They were so happy that they made me feel as if it was a good thing to have lived eighty years in a world where folks could be so happy .
They said their new joy was my birthday gift to them .
The wedding is to be in September and I 'm going to Montrose in August to help Anne with her quilts .
I do n't think anything will happen to prevent this time -- no quarrelling , anyhow .
Those two young creatures have learned their lesson .
You 'd better take it to heart too , Nora May .
It 's less trouble to learn it at second hand .
Do n't you ever quarrel with your real beau -- it do n't matter about the sham ones , of course .
Do n't take offence at trifles or listen to what other people tell you about him -- outsiders , that is , that want to make mischief .
What you think about him is of more importance than what they do .
To be sure , you 're too young yet to be thinking of such things at all .
But just mind what old Aunt Susanna told you when your time comes .
Bertie 's New Year He stood on the sagging doorstep and looked out on the snowy world .
His hands were clasped behind him , and his thin face wore a thoughtful , puzzled look .
The door behind him opened jerkingly , and a scowling woman came out with a pan of dishwater in her hand .
`` Ai n't you gone yet , Bert ? ''
she said sharply .
`` What in the world are you hanging round for ? ''
`` It 's early yet , '' said Bertie cheerfully .
`` I thought maybe George Fraser 'd be along and I 'd get a lift as far as the store . ''
`` Well , I never saw such laziness !
No wonder old Sampson wo n't keep you longer than the holidays if you 're no smarter than that .
Goodness , if I do n't settle that boy ! ''
-- as the sound of fretful crying came from the kitchen behind her .
`` What is wrong with William John ? ''
asked Bertie .
`` Why , he wants to go out coasting with those Robinson boys , but he ca n't .
He has n't got any mittens and he would catch his death of cold again . ''
Her voice seemed to imply that William John had died of cold several times already .
Bertie looked soberly down at his old , well-darned mittens .
It was very cold , and he would have a great many errands to run .
He shivered , and looked up at his aunt 's hard face as she stood wiping her dish-pan with a grim frown which boded no good to the discontented William John .
Then he suddenly pulled off his mittens and held them out .
`` Here -- he can have mine .
I 'll get on without them well enough . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Mrs. Ross , but less unkindly .
`` The fingers would freeze off you .
Do n't be a goose . ''
`` It 's all right , '' persisted Bertie .
`` I do n't need them -- much .
And William John does n't hardly ever get out . ''
He thrust them into her hand and ran quickly down the street , as though he feared that the keen air might make him change his mind in spite of himself .
He had to stop a great many times that day to breathe on his purple hands .
Still , he did not regret having lent his mittens to William John -- poor , pale , sickly little William John , who had so few pleasures .
It was sunset when Bertie laid an armful of parcels down on the steps of Doctor Forbes 's handsome house .
His back was turned towards the big bay window at one side , and he was busy trying to warm his hands , so he did not see the two small faces looking at him through the frosty panes .
`` Just look at that poor little boy , Amy , '' said the taller of the two .
`` He is almost frozen , I believe .
Why does n't Caroline hurry and open the door ? ''
`` There she goes now , '' said Amy .
`` Edie , could n't we coax her to let him come in and get warm ?
He looks so cold . ''
And she drew her sister out into the hall , where the housekeeper was taking Bertie 's parcels .
`` Caroline , '' whispered Edith timidly , `` please tell that poor little fellow to come in and get warm -- he looks very cold . ''
`` He 's used to the cold , I warrant you , '' said the housekeeper rather impatiently .
`` It wo n't hurt him . ''
`` But it is Christmas week , '' said Edith gravely , `` and you know , Caroline , when Mamma was here she used to say that we ought to be particularly thoughtful of others who were not so happy or well-off as we were at this time . ''
Perhaps Edith 's reference to her mother softened Caroline , for she turned to Bertie and said cordially enough , `` Come in , and warm yourself before you go .
It 's a cold day . ''
Bertie shyly followed her to the kitchen .
`` Sit up to the fire , '' said Caroline , placing a chair for him , while Edith and Amy came round to the other side of the stove and watched him with friendly interest .
`` What 's your name ? ''
asked Caroline .
`` Robert Ross , ma'am . ''
`` Oh , you 're Mrs. Ross 's nephew then , '' said Caroline , breaking eggs into her cake-bowl , and whisking them deftly round .
`` And you 're Sampson 's errand boy just now ?
My goodness , '' as the boy spread his blue hands over the fire , `` where are your mittens , child ?
You 're never out without mittens a day like this ! ''
`` I lent them to William John -- he had n't any , '' faltered Bertie .
He did not know but that the lady might consider it a grave crime to be mittenless .
`` No mittens ! ''
exclaimed Amy in dismay .
`` Why , I have three pairs .
And who is William John ? ''
`` He is my cousin , '' said Bertie .
`` And he 's awful sickly .
He wanted to go out to play , and he had n't any mittens , so I lent him mine .
I did n't miss them -- much . ''
`` What kind of a Christmas did you have ? ''
`` We did n't have any . ''
`` No Christmas ! ''
said Amy , quite overcome .
`` Oh , well , I suppose you are going to have a good time on New Year 's instead . ''
Bertie shook his head .
`` No 'm , I guess not .
We never have it different from other times . ''
Amy was silent from sheer amazement .
Edith understood better , and she changed the subject .
`` Have you any brothers or sisters , Bertie ? ''
`` No 'm , '' returned Bertie cheerfully .
`` I guess there 's enough of us without that .
I must be going now .
I 'm very much obliged to you . ''
Edith slipped from the room as he spoke , and met him again at the door .
She held out a pair of warm-looking mittens .
`` These are for William John , '' she said simply , `` so that you can have your own .
They are a pair of mine which are too big for me .
I know Papa will say it is all right .
Goodbye , Bertie . ''
`` Goodbye -- and thank you , '' stammered Bertie , as the door closed .
Then he hastened home to William John .
That evening Doctor Forbes noticed a peculiarly thoughtful look on Edith 's face as she sat gazing into the glowing coal fire after dinner .
He laid his hand on her dark curls inquiringly .
`` What are you musing over ? ''
`` There was a little boy here today , '' began Edith .
`` Oh , such a dear little boy , '' broke in Amy eagerly from the corner , where she was playing with her kitten .
`` His name was Bertie Ross .
He brought up the parcels , and we asked him in to get warm .
He had no mittens , and his hands were almost frozen .
And , oh , Papa , just think !
-- he said he never had any Christmas or New Year at all . ''
`` Poor little fellow ! ''
said the doctor .
`` I 've heard of him ; a pretty hard time he has of it , I think . ''
`` He was so pretty , Papa .
And Edie gave him her blue mittens for William John . ''
`` The plot deepens .
Who is William John ? ''
`` Oh , a cousin or something , did n't he say Edie ?
Anyway , he is sick , and he wanted to go coasting , and Bertie gave him his mittens .
And I suppose he never had any Christmas either . ''
`` There are plenty who have n't , '' said the doctor , taking up his paper with a sigh .
`` Well , girlies , you seem interested in this little fellow so , if you like , you may invite him and his cousin to take dinner with you on New Year 's night . ''
`` Oh , Papa ! ''
said Edith , her eyes shining like stars .
The doctor laughed .
`` Write him a nice little note of invitation -- you are the lady of the house , you know -- and I 'll see that he gets it tomorrow . ''
And this was how it came to pass that Bertie received the next day his first invitation to dine out .
He read the little note through three times in order fully to take in its contents , and then went around the rest of the day in deep abstraction as though he was trying to decide some very important question .
It was with the same expression that he opened the door at home in the evening .
His aunt was stirring some oatmeal mush on the stove .
`` Is that you , Bert ? ''
She spoke sharply .
She always spoke sharply , even when not intending it ; it had grown to be a habit .
`` Yes 'm , '' said Bertie meekly , as he hung up his cap .
`` I s ` pose you 've only got one day more at the store , '' said Mrs. Ross .
`` Sampson did n't say anything about keeping you longer , did he ? ''
`` No .
He said he could n't -- I asked him . ''
`` Well , I did n't expect he would .
You 'll have a holiday on New Year 's anyhow ; whether you 'll have anything to eat or not is a different question . ''
`` I 've an invitation to dinner , '' said Bertie timidly , `` me and William John .
It 's from Doctor Forbes 's little girls -- the ones that gave me the mittens . ''
He handed her the little note , and Mrs. Ross stooped down and read it by the fitful gleam of light which came from the cracked stove .
`` Well , you can please yourself , '' she said as she handed it back , `` but William John could n't go if he had ten invitations .
He caught cold coasting yesterday .
I told him he would , but he was bound to go , and now he 's laid up for a week .
Listen to him barking in the bedroom there . ''
`` Well , then , I wo n't go either , '' said Bertie with a sigh , it might be of relief , or it might be of disappointment .
`` I would n't go there all alone . ''
`` You 're a goose ! ''
said his aunt .
`` They would n't eat you .
But as I said , please yourself .
Anyhow , hold your tongue about it to William John , or you 'll have him crying and bawling to go too . ''
The caution came too late .
William John had already heard it , and when his mother went in to rub his chest with liniment , she found him with the ragged quilt over his head crying .
`` Come , William John , I want to rub you . ''
`` I do n't want to be rubbed -- g ` way , '' sobbed William John .
`` I heard you out there -- you need n't think I did n't .
Bertie 's going to Doctor Forbes 's to dinner and I ca n't go . ''
`` Well , you 've only yourself to thank for it , '' returned his mother .
`` If you had n't persisted in going out coasting yesterday when I wanted you to stay in , you 'd have been able to go to Doctor Forbes 's .
Little boys who wo n't do as they 're told always get into trouble .
Stop crying , now .
I dare say if Bertie goes they 'll send you some candy , or something . ''
But William John refused to be comforted .
He cried himself to sleep that night , and when Bertie went in to see him next morning , he found him sitting up in bed with his eyes red and swollen and the faded quilt drawn up around his pinched face .
`` Well , William John , how are you ? ''
`` I ai n't any better , '' replied William John mournfully .
`` I s ` pose you 'll have a great time tomorrow night , Bertie ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm not going since you ca n't , '' said Bertie cheerily .
He thought this would comfort William John , but it had exactly the opposite effect .
William John had cried until he could cry no more , but he turned around and sobbed .
`` There now ! ''
he said in tearless despair .
`` That 's just what I expected .
I did s ` pose if I could n't go you would , and tell me about it .
You 're mean as mean can be . ''
`` Come now , William John , do n't be so cross .
I thought you 'd rather have me home , but I 'll go , if you want me to . ''
`` Honest , now ? ''
`` Yes , honest .
I 'll go anywhere to please you .
I must be off to the store now .
Goodbye . ''
Thus committed , Bertie took his courage in both hands and went .
The next evening at dusk found him standing at Doctor Forbes 's door with a very violently beating heart .
He was carefully dressed in his well-worn best suit and a neat white collar .
The frosty air had crimsoned his cheeks and his hair was curling round his face .
Caroline opened the door and showed him into the parlour , where Edith and Amy were eagerly awaiting him .
`` Happy New Year , Bertie , '' cried Amy .
`` And -- but , why , where is William John ? ''
`` He could n't come , '' answered Bertie anxiously -- he was afraid he might not be welcome without William John .
`` He 's real sick .
He caught cold and has to stay in bed ; but he wanted to come awful bad . ''
`` Oh , dear me !
Poor William John ! ''
said Amy in a disappointed tone .
But all further remarks were cut short by the entrance of Doctor Forbes .
`` How do you do ? ''
he said , giving Bertie 's hand a hearty shake .
`` But where is the other little fellow my girls were expecting ? ''
Bertie patiently reaccounted for William John 's non-appearance .
`` It 's a bad time for colds , '' said the doctor , sitting down and attacking the fire .
`` I dare say , though , you have to run so fast these days that a cold could n't catch you .
I suppose you 'll soon be leaving Sampson 's .
He told me he did n't need you after the holiday season was over .
What are you going at next ?
Have you anything in view ? ''
Bertie shook his head sorrowfully .
`` No , sir ; but , '' he added more cheerfully , `` I guess I 'll find something if I hunt around lively .
I almost always do . ''
He forgot his shyness ; his face flushed hopefully , and he looked straight at the doctor with his bright , earnest eyes .
The doctor poked the fire energetically and looked very wise .
But just then the girls came up and carried Bertie off to display their holiday gifts .
And there was a fur cap and a pair of mittens for him !
He wondered whether he was dreaming .
`` And here 's a picture-book for William John , '' said Amy , `` and there is a sled out in the kitchen for him .
Oh , there 's the dinner-bell .
I 'm awfully hungry .
Papa says that is my ` normal condition , ' but I do n't know what that means . ''
As for that dinner -- Bertie might sometimes have seen such a repast in delightful dreams , but certainly never out of them .
It was a feast to be dated from .
When the plum pudding came on , the doctor , who had been notably silent , leaned back in his chair , placed his finger-tips together , and looked critically at Bertie .
`` So Mr. Sampson ca n't keep you ? ''
Bertie 's face sobered at once .
He had almost forgotten his responsibilities .
`` No , sir .
He says I 'm too small for the heavy work . ''
`` Well , you are rather small -- but no doubt you will grow .
Boys have a queer habit of doing that .
I think you know how to make yourself useful .
I need a boy here to run errands and look after my horse .
If you like , I 'll try you .
You can live here , and go to school .
I sometimes hear of places for boys in my rounds , and the first good one that will suit you , I 'll bespeak for you .
How will that do ? ''
`` Oh , sir , you are too good , '' said Bertie with a choke in his voice .
`` Well , that is settled , '' said the doctor genially .
`` Come on Monday then .
And perhaps we can do something for that other little chap , William , or John , or whatever his name is .
Will you have some more pudding , Bertie ? ''
`` No , thank you , '' said Bertie .
Pudding , indeed !
He could not have eaten another mouthful after such wonderful and unexpected good fortune .
After dinner they played games , and cracked nuts , and roasted apples , until the clock struck nine ; then Bertie got up to go .
`` Off , are you ? ''
said the doctor , looking up from his paper .
`` Well , I 'll expect you on Monday , remember . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' said Bertie happily .
He was not likely to forget .
As he went out Amy came through the hall with a red sled .
`` Here is William John 's present .
I 've tied all the other things on so that they ca n't fall off . ''
Edith was at the door-with a parcel .
`` Here are some nuts and candies for William John , '' she said .
`` And tell him we all wish him a ` Happy New Year . ' ''
`` Thank you , '' said Bertie .
`` I 've had a splendid time .
I 'll tell William John .
Goodnight . ''
He stepped out .
It was frostier than ever .
The snow crackled and snapped , the stars were keen and bright , but to Bertie , running down the street with William John 's sled thumping merrily behind him , the world was aglow with rosy hope and promise .
He was quite sure he could never forget this wonderful New Year .
Between the Hill and the Valley It was one of the moist , pleasantly odorous nights of early spring .
There was a chill in the evening air , but the grass was growing green in sheltered spots , and Jeffrey Miller had found purple-petalled violets and pink arbutus on the hill that day .
Across a valley filled with beech and fir , there was a sunset afterglow , creamy yellow and pale red , with a new moon swung above it .
It was a night for a man to walk alone and dream of his love , which was perhaps why Jeffrey Miller came so loiteringly across the springy hill pasture , with his hands full of the mayflowers .
He was a tall , broad-shouldered man of forty , and looking no younger , with dark grey eyes and a tanned , clean-cut face , clean-shaven save for a drooping moustache .
Jeffrey Miller was considered a handsome man , and Bayside people had periodical fits of wondering why he had never married .
They pitied him for the lonely life he must lead alone there at the Valley Farm , with only a deaf old housekeeper as a companion , for it did not occur to the Bayside people in general that a couple of shaggy dogs could be called companions , and they did not know that books make very excellent comrades for people who know how to treat them .
One of Jeffrey 's dogs was with him now -- the oldest one , with white breast and paws and a tawny coat .
He was so old that he was half-blind and rather deaf , but , with one exception , he was the dearest of living creatures to Jeffrey Miller , for Sara Stuart had given him the sprawly , chubby little pup years ago .
They came down the hill together .
A group of men were standing on the bridge in the hollow , discussing Colonel Stuart 's funeral of the day before .
Jeffrey caught Sara 's name and paused on the outskirts of the group to listen .
Sometimes he thought that if he were lying dead under six feet of turf and Sara Stuart 's name were pronounced above him , his heart would give a bound of life .
`` Yes , the old kunnel 's gone at last , '' Christopher Jackson was saying .
`` He took his time dyin ' , that 's sartain .
Must be a kind of relief for Sara -- she 's had to wait on him , hand and foot , for years .
But no doubt she 'll feel pretty lonesome .
Wonder what she 'll do ? ''
`` Is there any particular reason for her to do anything ? ''
asked Alec Churchill .
`` Well , she 'll have to leave Pinehurst .
The estate 's entailed and goes to her cousin , Charles Stuart . ''
There were exclamations of surprise from the other men on hearing this .
Jeffrey drew nearer , absently patting his dog 's head .
He had not known it either .
`` Oh , yes , '' said Christopher , enjoying all the importance of exclusive information .
`` I thought everybody knew that .
Pinehurst goes to the oldest male heir .
The old kunnel felt it keen that he had n't a son .
Of course , there 's plenty of money and Sara 'll get that .
But I guess she 'll feel pretty bad at leaving her old home .
Sara ai n't as young as she used to be , neither .
Let me see -- she must be thirty-eight .
Well , she 's left pretty lonesome . ''
`` Maybe she 'll stay on at Pinehurst , '' said Job Crowe .
`` It 'd only be right for her cousin to give her a home there . ''
Christopher shook his head .
`` No , I understand they 're not on very good terms .
Sara do n't like Charles Stuart or his wife -- and I do n't blame her .
She wo n't stay there , not likely .
Probably she 'll go and live in town .
Strange she never married .
She was reckoned handsome , and had plenty of beaus at one time . ''
Jeffrey swung out of the group and started homeward with his dog .
To stand by and hear Sara Stuart discussed after this fashion was more than he could endure .
The men idly watched his tall , erect figure as he went along the valley .
`` Queer chap , Jeff , '' said Alec Churchill reflectively .
`` Jeff 's all right , '' said Christopher in a patronizing way .
`` There ai n't a better man or neighbour alive .
I 've lived next farm to him for thirty years , so I ought to know .
But he 's queer sartainly -- not like other people -- kind of unsociable .
He do n't care for a thing ` cept dogs and reading and mooning round woods and fields .
That ai n't natural , you know .
But I must say he 's a good farmer .
He 's got the best farm in Bayside , and that 's a real nice house he put up on it .
Ai n't it an odd thing he never married ?
Never seemed to have no notion of it .
I ca n't recollect of Jeff Miller 's ever courting anybody .
That 's another unnatural thing about him . ''
`` I 've always thought that Jeff thought himself a cut or two above the rest of us , '' said Tom Scovel with a sneer .
`` Maybe he thinks the Bayside girls ai n't good enough for him . ''
`` There ai n't no such dirty pride about Jeff , '' pronounced Christopher conclusively .
`` And the Millers are the best family hereabouts , leaving the kunnel 's out .
And Jeff 's well off -- nobody knows how well , I reckon , but I can guess , being his land neighbour .
Jeff ai n't no fool nor loafer , if he is a bit queer . ''
Meanwhile , the object of these remarks was striding homeward and thinking , not of the men behind him , but of Sara Stuart .
He must go to her at once .
He had not intruded on her since her father 's death , thinking her sorrow too great for him to meddle with .
But this was different .
Perhaps she needed the advice or assistance only he could give .
To whom else in Bayside could she turn for it but to him , her old friend ?
Was it possible that she must leave Pinehurst ?
The thought struck cold dismay to his soul .
How could he bear his life if she went away ?
He had loved Sara Stuart from childhood .
He remembered vividly the day he had first seen her -- a spring day , much like this one had been ; he , a boy of eight , had gone with his father to the big , sunshiny hill field and he had searched for birds ' nests in the little fir copses along the crest while his father plowed .
He had so come upon her , sitting on the fence under the pines at the back of Pinehurst -- a child of six in a dress of purple cloth .
Her long , light brown curls fell over her shoulders and rippled sleekly back from her calm little brow ; her eyes were large and greyish blue , straight-gazing and steadfast .
To the end of his life the boy was to carry in his heart the picture she made there under the pines .
`` Little boy , '' she had said , with a friendly smile , `` will you show me where the mayflowers grow ? ''
Shyly enough he had assented , and they set out together for the barrens beyond the field , where the arbutus trailed its stars of sweetness under the dusty dead grasses and withered leaves of the old year .
The boy was thrilled with delight .
She was a fairy queen who thus graciously smiled on him and chattered blithely as they searched for mayflowers in the fresh spring sunshine .
He thought it a wonderful thing that it had so chanced .
It overjoyed him to give the choicest dusters he found into her slim , waxen little fingers , and watch her eyes grow round with pleasure in them .
When the sun began to lower over the beeches she had gone home with her arms full of arbutus , but she had turned at the edge of the pineland and waved her hand at him .
That night , when he told his mother of the little girl he had met on the hill , she had hoped anxiously that he had been `` very polite , '' for the little girl was a daughter of Colonel Stuart , newly come to Pinehurst .
Jeffrey , reflecting , had not been certain that he had been polite ; `` But I am sure she liked me , '' he said gravely .
A few days later a message came from Mrs. Stuart on the hill to Mrs. Miller in the valley .
Would she let her little boy go up now and then to play with Sara ?
Sara was very lonely because she had no playmates .
So Jeff , overjoyed , had gone to his divinity 's very home , where the two children played together many a day .
All through their childhood they had been fast friends .
Sara 's parents placed no bar to their intimacy .
They had soon concluded that little Jeff Miller was a very good playmate for Sara .
He was gentle , well-behaved , and manly .
Sara never went to the district school which Jeff attended ; she had her governess at home .
With no other boy or girl in Bayside did she form any friendship , but her loyalty to Jeff never wavered .
As for Jeff , he worshipped her and would have done anything she commanded .
He belonged to her from the day they had hunted arbutus on the hill .
When Sara was fifteen she had gone away to school .
Jeff had missed her sorely .
For four years he saw her only in the summers , and each year she had seemed taller , statelier , further from him .
When she graduated her father took her abroad for two years ; then she came home , a lovely , high-bred girl , dimpling on the threshold of womanhood ; and Jeffrey Miller was face to face with two bitter facts .
One was that he loved her -- not with the boy-and-girl love of long ago , but with the love of a man for the one woman in the world ; and the other was that she was as far beyond his reach as one of those sunset stars of which she had always reminded him in her pure , clear-shining loveliness .
He looked these facts unflinchingly in the face until he had grown used to them , and then he laid down his course for himself .
He loved Sara -- and he did not wish to conquer his love , even if it had been possible .
It were better to love her , whom he could never win , than to love and be loved by any other woman .
His great office in life was to be her friend , humble and unexpectant ; to be at hand if she should need him for ever so trifling a service ; never to presume , always to be faithful .
Sara had not forgotten her old friend .
But their former comradeship was now impossible ; they could be friends , but never again companions .
Sara 's life was full and gay ; she had interests in which he had no share ; her social world was utterly apart from his ; she was of the hill and its traditions , he was of the valley and its people .
The democracy of childhood past , there was no common ground on which they might meet .
Only one thing Jeffrey had found it impossible to contemplate calmly .
Some day Sara would marry -- a man who was her equal , who sat at her father 's table as a guest .
In spite of himself , Jeffrey 's heart filled with hot rebellion at the thought ; it was like a desecration and a robbery .
But , as the years went by , this thing he dreaded did not happen .
Sara did not marry , although gossip assigned her many suitors not unworthy of her .
She and Jeffrey were always friends , although they met but seldom .
Sometimes she sent him a book ; it was his custom to search for the earliest mayflowers and take them to her ; once in a long while they met and talked of many things .
Jeffrey 's calendar from year to year was red-lettered by these small happenings , of which nobody knew , or , knowing , would have cared .
So he and Sara drifted out of youth , together yet apart .
Her mother had died , and Sara was the gracious , stately mistress of Pinehurst , which grew quieter as the time went on ; the lovers ceased to come , and holiday friends grew few ; with the old colonel 's failing health the gaieties and lavish entertaining ceased .
Jeffrey thought that Sara must often be lonely , but she never said so ; she remained sweet , serene , calm-eyed , like the child he had met on the hill .
Only , now and then , Jeffrey fancied he saw a shadow on her face -- a shadow so faint and fleeting that only the eye of an unselfish , abiding love , made clear-sighted by patient years , could have seen it .
It hurt him , that shadow ; he would have given anything in his power to have banished it .
And now this long friendship was to be broken .
Sara was going away .
At first he had thought only of her pain , but now his own filled his heart .
How could he live without her ?
How could he dwell in the valley knowing that she had gone from the hill ?
Never to see her light shine down on him through the northern gap in the pines at night !
Never to feel that perhaps her eyes rested on him now and then as he went about his work in the valley fields !
Never to stoop with a glad thrill over the first spring flowers because it was his privilege to take them to her !
Jeffrey groaned aloud .
No , he could not go up to see her that night ; he must wait -- he must strengthen himself .
Then his heart rebuked him .
This was selfishness ; this was putting his own feelings before hers -- a thing he had sworn never to do .
Perhaps she needed him -- perhaps she had wondered why he had not come to offer her such poor service as might be in his power .
He turned and went down through the orchard lane , taking the old field-path across the valley and up the hill , which he had traversed so often and so joyfully in boyhood .
It was dark now , and a few stars were shining in the silvery sky .
The wind sighed among the pines as he walked under them .
Sometimes he felt that he must turn back -- that his pain was going to master him ; then he forced himself to go on .
The old grey house where Sara lived seemed bleak and stricken in the dull light , with its leafless vines clinging to it .
There were no lights in it .
It looked like a home left soulless .
Jeffrey went around to the garden door and knocked .
He had expected the maid to open it , put Sara herself came .
`` Why , Jeff , '' she said , with pleasure in her tones .
`` I am so glad to see you .
I have been wondering why you had not come before . ''
`` I did not think you would want to see me yet , '' he said hurriedly .
`` I have thought about you every hour -- but I feared to intrude . '' ''
You could n't intrude , '' she said gently .
`` Yes , I have wanted to see you , Jeff .
Come into the library . ''
He followed her into the room where they had always sat in his rare calls .
Sara lighted the lamp on the table .
As the light shot up she stood clearly revealed in it -- a tall , slender woman in a trailing gown of grey .
Even a stranger , not knowing her age , would have guessed it to be what it was , yet it would have been hard to say what gave the impression of maturity .
Her face was quite unlined -- a little pale , perhaps , with more finely cut outlines than those of youth .
Her eyes were clear and bright ; her abundant brown hair waved back from her face in the same curves that Jeffrey had noted in the purple-gowned child of six , under the pines .
Perhaps it was the fine patience and serenity in her face that told her tale of years .
Youth can never acquire it .
Her eyes brightened when she saw the mayflowers he carried .
She came and took them from him , and her hands touched his , sending a little thrill of joy through him .
`` How lovely they are !
And the first I have seen this spring .
You always bring me the first , do n't you , Jeff ?
Do you remember the first day we spent picking mayflowers together ? ''
Jeff smiled .
Could he forget ?
But something held him back from speech .
Sara put the flowers in a vase on the table , but slipped one starry pink cluster into the lace on her breast .
She came and sat down beside Jeffrey ; he saw that her beautiful eyes had been weeping , and that there were lines of pain around her lips .
Some impulse that would not be denied made him lean over and take her hand .
She left it unresistingly in his clasp .
`` I am very lonely now , Jeff , '' she said sadly .
`` Father has gone .
I have no friends left . ''
`` You have me , '' said Jeffrey quietly .
`` Yes .
I should n't have said that .
You are my friend , I know , Jeff .
But , but -- I must leave Pinehurst , you know . ''
`` I learned that tonight for the first time , '' he answered .
`` Did you ever come to a place where everything seemed ended -- where it seemed that there was nothing -- simply nothing -- left , Jeff ? ''
she said wistfully .
`` But , no , it could n't seem so to a man .
Only a woman could fully understand what I mean .
That is how I feel now .
While I had Father to live for it was n't so hard .
But now there is nothing .
And I must go away . ''
`` Is there anything I can do ? ''
muttered Jeffrey miserably .
He knew now that he had made a mistake in coming tonight ; he could not help her .
His own pain had unmanned him .
Presently he would say something foolish or selfish in spite of himself .
Sara turned her eyes on him .
`` There is nothing anybody can do , Jeff , '' she said piteously .
Her eyes , those clear child-eyes , filled with tears .
`` I shall be braver -- stronger -- after a while .
But just now I have no strength left .
I feel like a lost , helpless child .
Oh , Jeff ! ''
She put her slender hands over her face and sobbed .
Every sob cut Jeffrey to the heart .
`` Do n't -- do n't , Sara , '' he said huskily .
`` I ca n't bear to see you suffer so .
I 'd die for you if it would do you any good .
I love you -- I love you !
I never meant to tell you so , but it is the truth .
I ought n't to tell you now .
Do n't think that I 'm trying to take any advantage of your loneliness and sorrow .
I know -- I have always known -- that you are far above me .
But that could n't prevent my loving you -- just humbly loving you , asking nothing else .
You may be angry with my presumption , but I ca n't help telling you that I love you .
That 's all .
I just want you to know it . ''
Sara had turned away her head .
Jeffrey was overcome with contrition .
Ah , he had no business to speak so -- he had spoiled the devotion of years .
Who was he that he should have dared to love her ?
Silence alone had justified his love , and now he had lost that justification .
She would despise him .
He had forfeited her friendship for ever .
`` Are you angry , Sara ? ''
he questioned sadly , after a silence .
`` I think I am , '' said Sara .
She kept her stately head averted .
`` If -- if you have loved me , Jeff , why did you never tell me so before ? ''
`` How could I dare ? ''
he said gravely .
`` I knew I could never win you -- that I had no right to dream of you so .
Oh , Sara , do n't be angry !
My love has been reverent and humble .
I have asked nothing .
I ask nothing now but your friendship .
Do n't take that from me , Sara .
Do n't be angry with me . ''
`` I am angry , '' repeated Sara , `` and I think I have a right to be . ''
`` Perhaps so , '' he said simply , `` but not because I have loved you .
Such love as mine ought to anger no woman , Sara .
But you have a right to be angry with me for presuming to put it into words .
I should not have done so -- but I could not help it .
It rushed to my lips in spite of me .
Forgive me . ''
`` I do n't know whether I can forgive you for not telling me before , '' said Sara steadily . ''
That is what I have to forgive -- not your speaking at last , even if it was dragged from you against your will .
Did you think I would make you such a very poor wife , Jeff , that you would not ask me to marry you ? ''
`` Sara ! ''
he said , aghast .
`` I -- I -- you were as far above me as a star in the sky -- I never dreamed -- I never hoped -- '' `` That I could care for you ? ''
said Sara , looking round at last .
`` Then you were more modest than a man ought to be , Jeff .
I did not know that you loved me , or I should have found some way to make you speak out long ago .
I should not have let you waste all these years .
I 've loved you -- ever since we picked mayflowers on the hill , I think -- ever since I came home from school , I know .
I never cared for anyone else -- although I tried to , when I thought you did n't care for me .
It mattered nothing to me that the world may have thought there was some social difference between us .
There , Jeff , you can not accuse me of not making my meaning plain . ''
`` Sara , '' he whispered , wondering , bewildered , half-afraid to believe this unbelievable joy .
`` I 'm not half worthy of you -- but -- but '' -- he bent forward and put his arm around her , looking straight into her clear , unshrinking eyes .
`` Sara , will you be my wife ? ''
`` Yes . ''
She said the word clearly and truly .
`` And I will think myself a proud and happy and honoured woman to be so , Jeff .
Oh , I do n't shrink from telling you the truth , you see .
You mean too much to me for me to dissemble it .
I 've hidden it for eighteen years because I did n't think you wanted to hear it , but I 'll give myself the delight of saying it frankly now . ''
She lifted her delicate , high-bred face , fearless love shining in every lineament , to his , and they exchanged their first kiss .
Clorinda 's Gifts `` It is a dreadful thing to be poor a fortnight before Christmas , '' said Clorinda , with the mournful sigh of seventeen years .
Aunt Emmy smiled .
Aunt Emmy was sixty , and spent the hours she did n't spend in a bed , on a sofa or in a wheel chair ; but Aunt Emmy was never heard to sigh .
`` I suppose it is worse then than at any other time , '' she admitted .
That was one of the nice things about Aunt Emmy .
She always sympathized and understood .
`` I 'm worse than poor this Christmas ... I 'm stony broke , '' said Clorinda dolefully .
`` My spell of fever in the summer and the consequent doctor 's bills have cleaned out my coffers completely .
Not a single Christmas present can I give .
And I did so want to give some little thing to each of my dearest people .
But I simply ca n't afford it ... that 's the hateful , ugly truth . ''
Clorinda sighed again .
`` The gifts which money can purchase are not the only ones we can give , '' said Aunt Emmy gently , `` nor the best , either . ''
`` Oh , I know it 's nicer to give something of your own work , '' agreed Clorinda , `` but materials for fancy work cost too .
That kind of gift is just as much out of the question for me as any other . ''
`` That was not what I meant , '' said Aunt Emmy .
`` What did you mean , then ? ''
asked Clorinda , looking puzzled .
Aunt Emmy smiled .
`` Suppose you think out my meaning for yourself , '' she said .
`` That would be better than if I explained it .
Besides , I do n't think I could explain it .
Take the beautiful line of a beautiful poem to help you in your thinking out : ` The gift without the giver is bare . ' ''
`` I 'd put it the other way and say , ` The giver without the gift is bare , ' '' said Clorinda , with a grimace .
`` That is my predicament exactly .
Well , I hope by next Christmas I 'll not be quite bankrupt .
I 'm going into Mr. Callender 's store down at Murraybridge in February .
He has offered me the place , you know . ''
`` Wo n't your aunt miss you terribly ? ''
said Aunt Emmy gravely .
Clorinda flushed .
There was a note in Aunt Emmy 's voice that disturbed her .
`` Oh , yes , I suppose she will , '' she answered hurriedly .
`` But she 'll get used to it very soon .
And I will be home every Saturday night , you know .
I 'm dreadfully tired of being poor , Aunt Emmy , and now that I have a chance to earn something for myself I mean to take it .
I can help Aunt Mary , too .
I 'm to get four dollars a week . ''
`` I think she would rather have your companionship than a part of your salary , Clorinda , '' said Aunt Emmy .
`` But of course you must decide for yourself , dear .
It is hard to be poor .
I know it .
I am poor . ''
`` You poor ! ''
said Clorinda , kissing her .
`` Why , you are the richest woman I know , Aunt Emmy -- rich in love and goodness and contentment . ''
`` And so are you , dearie ... rich in youth and health and happiness and ambition .
Are n't they all worth while ? ''
`` Of course they are , '' laughed Clorinda .
`` Only , unfortunately , Christmas gifts ca n't be coined out of them . ''
`` Did you ever try ? ''
asked Aunt Emmy .
`` Think out that question , too , in your thinking out , Clorinda . ''
`` Well , I must say bye-bye and run home .
I feel cheered up -- you always cheer people up , Aunt Emmy .
How grey it is outdoors .
I do hope we 'll have snow soon .
Would n't it be jolly to have a white Christmas ?
We always have such faded brown Decembers . ''
Clorinda lived just across the road from Aunt Emmy in a tiny white house behind some huge willows .
But Aunt Mary lived there too -- the only relative Clorinda had , for Aunt Emmy was n't really her aunt at all .
Clorinda had always lived with Aunt Mary ever since she could remember .
Clorinda went home and upstairs to her little room under the eaves , where the great bare willow boughs were branching athwart her windows .
She was thinking over what Aunt Emmy had said about Christmas gifts and giving .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know what she could have meant , '' pondered Clorinda .
`` I do wish I could find out if it would help me any .
I 'd love to remember a few of my friends at least .
There 's Miss Mitchell ... she 's been so good to me all this year and helped me so much with my studies .
And there 's Mrs. Martin out in Manitoba .
If I could only send her something !
She must be so lonely out there .
And Aunt Emmy herself , of course ; and poor old Aunt Kitty down the lane ; and Aunt Mary and , yes -- Florence too , although she did treat me so meanly .
I shall never feel the same to her again .
But she gave me a present last Christmas , and so out of mere politeness I ought to give her something . ''
Clorinda stopped short suddenly .
She had just remembered that she would not have liked to say that last sentence to Aunt Emmy .
Therefore , there was something wrong about it .
Clorinda had long ago learned that there was sure to be something wrong in anything that could not be said to Aunt Emmy .
So she stopped to think it over .
Clorinda puzzled over Aunt Emmy 's meaning for four days and part of three nights .
Then all at once it came to her .
Or if it was n't Aunt Emmy 's meaning it was a very good meaning in itself , and it grew clearer and expanded in meaning during the days that followed , although at first Clorinda shrank a little from some of the conclusions to which it led her .
`` I 've solved the problem of my Christmas giving for this year , '' she told Aunt Emmy .
`` I have some things to give after all .
Some of them quite costly , too ; that is , they will cost me something , but I know I 'll be better off and richer after I 've paid the price .
That is what Mr. Grierson would call a paradox , is n't it ?
I 'll explain all about it to you on Christmas Day . ''
On Christmas Day , Clorinda went over to Aunt Emmy 's .
It was a faded brown Christmas after all , for the snow had not come .
But Clorinda did not mind ; there was such joy in her heart that she thought it the most delightful Christmas Day that ever dawned .
She put the queer cornery armful she carried down on the kitchen floor before she went into the sitting room .
Aunt Emmy was lying on the sofa before the fire , and Clorinda sat down beside her .
`` I 've come to tell you all about it , '' she said .
Aunt Emmy patted the hand that was in her own .
`` From your face , dear girl , it will be pleasant hearing and telling , '' she said .
Clorinda nodded .
`` Aunt Emmy , I thought for days over your meaning ... thought until I was dizzy .
And then one evening it just came to me , without any thinking at all , and I knew that I could give some gifts after all .
I thought of something new every day for a week .
At first I did n't think I could give some of them , and then I thought how selfish I was .
I would have been willing to pay any amount of money for gifts if I had had it , but I was n't willing to pay what I had .
I got over that , though , Aunt Emmy .
Now I 'm going to tell you what I did give .
`` First , there was my teacher , Miss Mitchell .
I gave her one of father 's books .
I have so many of his , you know , so that I would n't miss one ; but still it was one I loved very much , and so I felt that that love made it worth while .
That is , I felt that on second thought .
At first , Aunt Emmy , I thought I would be ashamed to offer Miss Mitchell a shabby old book , worn with much reading and all marked over with father 's notes and pencillings .
I was afraid she would think it queer of me to give her such a present .
And yet somehow it seemed to me that it was better than something brand new and unmellowed -- that old book which father had loved and which I loved .
So I gave it to her , and she understood .
I think it pleased her so much , the real meaning in it .
She said it was like being given something out of another 's heart and life .
`` Then you know Mrs. Martin ... last year she was Miss Hope , my dear Sunday School teacher .
She married a home missionary , and they are in a lonely part of the west .
Well , I wrote her a letter .
Not just an ordinary letter ; dear me , no .
I took a whole day to write it , and you should have seen the postmistress 's eyes stick out when I mailed it .
I just told her everything that had happened in Greenvale since she went away .
I made it as newsy and cheerful and loving as I possibly could .
Everything bright and funny I could think of went into it .
`` The next was old Aunt Kitty .
You know she was my nurse when I was a baby , and she 's very fond of me .
But , well , you know , Aunt Emmy , I 'm ashamed to confess it , but really I 've never found Aunt Kitty very entertaining , to put it mildly .
She is always glad when I go to see her , but I 've never gone except when I could n't help it .
She is very deaf , and rather dull and stupid , you know .
Well , I gave her a whole day .
I took my knitting yesterday , and sat with her the whole time and just talked and talked .
I told her all the Greenvale news and gossip and everything else I thought she 'd like to hear .
She was so pleased and proud ; she told me when I came away that she had n't had such a nice time for years .
`` Then there was ... Florence .
You know , Aunt Emmy , we were always intimate friends until last year .
Then Florence once told Rose Watson something I had told her in confidence .
I found it out and I was so hurt .
I could n't forgive Florence , and I told her plainly I could never be a real friend to her again .
Florence felt badly , because she really did love me , and she asked me to forgive her , but it seemed as if I could n't .
Well , Aunt Emmy , that was my Christmas gift to her ... my forgiveness .
I went down last night and just put my arms around her and told her that I loved her as much as ever and wanted to be real close friends again .
`` I gave Aunt Mary her gift this morning .
I told her I was n't going to Murraybridge , that I just meant to stay home with her .
She was so glad -- and I 'm glad , too , now that I 've decided so . ''
`` Your gifts have been real gifts , Clorinda , '' said Aunt Emmy .
`` Something of you -- the best of you -- went into each of them . ''
Clorinda went out and brought her cornery armful in .
`` I did n't forget you , Aunt Emmy , '' she said , as she unpinned the paper .
There was a rosebush -- Clorinda 's own pet rosebush -- all snowed over with fragrant blossoms .
Aunt Emmy loved flowers .
She put her finger under one of the roses and kissed it .
`` It 's as sweet as yourself , dear child , '' she said tenderly .
`` And it will be a joy to me all through the lonely winter days .
You 've found out the best meaning of Christmas giving , have n't you , dear ? ''
`` Yes , thanks to you , Aunt Emmy , '' said Clorinda softly .
Cyrilla 's Inspiration It was a rainy Saturday afternoon and all the boarders at Mrs. Plunkett 's were feeling dull and stupid , especially the Normal School girls on the third floor , Cyrilla Blair and Carol Hart and Mary Newton , who were known as The Trio , and shared the big front room together .
They were sitting in that front room , scowling out at the weather .
At least , Carol and Mary were scowling .
Cyrilla never scowled ; she was sitting curled up on her bed with her Greek grammar , and she smiled at the rain and her grumbling chums as cheerfully as possible .
`` For pity 's sake , Cyrilla , put that grammar away , '' moaned Mary .
`` There is something positively uncanny about a girl who can study Greek on Saturday afternoons -- at least , this early in the term . ''
`` I 'm not really studying , '' said Cyrilla , tossing the book away .
`` I 'm only pretending to .
I 'm really just as bored and lonesome as you are .
But what else is there to do ?
We ca n't stir outside the door ; we 've nothing to read ; we ca n't make candy since Mrs. Plunkett has forbidden us to use the oil stove in our room ; we 'll probably quarrel all round if we sit here in idleness ; so I 've been trying to brush up my Greek verbs by way of keeping out of mischief .
Have you any better employment to offer me ? ''
`` If it were only a mild drizzle we might go around and see the Patterson girls , '' sighed Carol .
`` But there is no venturing out in such a downpour .
Cyrilla , you are supposed to be the brainiest one of us .
Prove your claim to such pre-eminence by thinking of some brand-new amusement , especially suited to rainy afternoons .
That will be putting your grey matter to better use than squandering it on Greek verbs out of study limits . ''
`` If only I 'd got a letter from home today , '' said Mary , who seemed determined to persist in gloom .
`` I would n't mind the weather .
Letters are such cheery things : -- especially the letters my sister writes .
They 're so full of fun and nice little news .
The reading of one cheers me up for the day .
Cyrilla Blair , what is the matter ?
You nearly frightened me to death ! ''
Cyrilla had bounded from her bed to the centre of the floor , waving her Greek grammar wildly in the air .
`` Girls , I have an inspiration ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` Good !
Let 's hear it , '' said Carol .
`` Let 's write letters -- rainy-day letters -- to everyone in the house , '' said Cyrilla .
`` You may depend all the rest of the folks under Mrs. Plunkett 's hospitable roof are feeling more or less blue and lonely too , as well as ourselves .
Let 's write them the jolliest , nicest letters we can compose and get Nora Jane to take them to their rooms .
There 's that pale little sewing girl , I do n't believe she ever gets letters from anybody , and Miss Marshall , I 'm sure she does n't , and poor old Mrs. Johnson , whose only son died last month , and the new music teacher who came yesterday , a letter of welcome to her -- and old Mr. Grant , yes , and Mrs. Plunkett too , thanking her for all her kindness to us .
You knew she has been awfully nice to us in spite of the oil stove ukase .
That 's six -- two apiece .
Let 's do it , girls . ''
Cyrilla 's sudden enthusiasm for her plan infected the others .
`` It 's a nice idea , '' said Mary , brightening up .
`` But who 's to write to whom ?
I 'm willing to take anybody but Miss Marshall .
I could n't write a line to her to save my life .
She 'd be horrified at anything funny or jokey and our letters will have to be mainly nonsense -- nonsense of the best brand , to be sure , but still nonsense . ''
`` Better leave Miss Marshall out , '' suggested Carol .
`` You know she disapproves of us anyhow .
She 'd probably resent a letter of the sort , thinking we were trying to play some kind of joke on her . ''
`` It would never do to leave her out , '' said Cyrilla decisively .
`` Of course , she 's a bit queer and unamiable , but , girls , think of thirty years of boarding-house life , even with the best of Plunketts .
Would n't that sour anybody ?
You know it would .
You 'd be cranky and grumbly and disagreeable too , I dare say .
I 'm really sorry for Miss Marshall .
She 's had a very hard life .
Mrs. Plunkett told me all about her one day .
I do n't think we should mind her biting little speeches and sharp looks .
And anyway , even if she is really as disagreeable as she sometimes seems to be , why , it must make it all the harder for her , do n't you think ?
So she needs a letter most of all .
I 'll write to her , since it 's my suggestion .
We 'll draw lots for the others . ''
Besides Miss Marshall , the new music teacher fell to Cyrilla 's share .
Mary drew Mrs. Plunkett and the dressmaker , and Carol drew Mrs. Johnson and old Mr. Grant .
For the next two hours the girls wrote busily , forgetting all about the rainy day , and enjoying their epistolary labours to the full .
It was dusk when all the letters were finished .
`` Why , has n't the afternoon gone quickly after all ! ''
exclaimed Carol .
`` I just let my pen run on and jotted down any good working idea that came into my head .
Cyrilla Blair , that big fat letter is never for Miss Marshall !
What on earth did you find to write her ? ''
`` It was n't so hard when I got fairly started , '' said Cyrilla , smiling .
`` Now , let 's hunt up Nora Jane and send the letters around so that everybody can read his or hers before tea-time .
We should have a choice assortment of smiles at the table instead of all those frowns and sighs we had at dinner . ''
Miss Emily Marshall was at that moment sitting in her little back room , all alone in the dusk , with the rain splashing drearily against the windowpanes outside .
Miss Marshall was feeling as lonely and dreary as she looked -- and as she had often felt in her life of sixty years .
She told herself bitterly that she had n't a friend in the world -- not even one who cared enough for her to come and see her or write her a letter now and then .
She thought her boarding-house acquaintances disliked her and she resented their dislike , without admitting to herself that her ungracious ways were responsible for it .
She smiled sourly when little ripples of laughter came faintly down the hall from the front room where The Trio were writing their letters and laughing over the fun they were putting into them .
`` If they were old and lonesome and friendless they would n't see much in life to laugh at , I guess , '' said Miss Marshall bitterly , drawing her shawl closer about her sharp shoulders .
`` They never think of anything but themselves and if a day passes that they do n't have ` some fun ' they think it 's a fearful thing to put up with .
I 'm sick and tired of their giggling and whispering . ''
In the midst of these amiable reflections Miss Marshall heard a knock at her door .
When she opened it there stood Nora Jane , her broad red face beaming with smiles .
`` Please , Miss , here 's a letter for you , '' she said .
`` A letter for me ! ''
Miss Marshall shut her door and stared at the fat envelope in amazement .
Who could have written it ?
The postman came only in the morning .
Was it some joke , perhaps ?
Those giggling girls ?
Miss Marshall 's face grew harder as she lighted her lamp and opened the letter suspiciously .
`` Dear Miss Marshall , '' it ran in Cyrilla 's pretty girlish writing , `` we girls are so lonesome and dull that we have decided to write rainy-day letters to everybody in the house just to cheer ourselves up .
So I 'm going to write to you just a letter of friendly nonsense . ''
Pages of `` nonsense '' followed , and very delightful nonsense it was , for Cyrilla possessed the happy gift of bright and easy letter-writing .
She commented wittily on all the amusing episodes of the boarding-house life for the past month ; she described a cat-fight she had witnessed from her window that morning and illustrated it by a pen-and-ink sketch of the belligerent felines ; she described a lovely new dress her mother had sent her from home and told all about the class party to which she had worn it ; she gave an account of her vacation camping trip to the mountains and pasted on one page a number of small snapshots taken during the outing ; she copied a joke she had read in the paper that morning and discussed the serial story in the boarding-house magazine which all the boarders were reading ; she wrote out the directions for a new crocheted tidy her sister had made -- Miss Marshall had a mania for crocheting ; and she finally wound up with `` all the good will and good wishes that Nora Jane will consent to carry from your friend , Cyrilla Blair . ''
Before Miss Marshall had finished reading that letter she had cried three times and laughed times past counting .
More tears came at the end -- happy , tender tears such as Miss Marshall had not shed for years .
Something warm and sweet and gentle seemed to thrill to life within her heart .
So those girls were not such selfish , heedless young creatures as she had supposed !
How kind it had been in Cyrilla Blair to think of her and write so to her .
She no longer felt lonely and neglected .
Her whole sombre world had been brightened to sunshine by that merry friendly letter .
Mrs. Plunkett 's table was surrounded by a ring of smiling faces that night .
Everybody seemed in good spirits in spite of the weather .
The pale little dressmaker , who had hardly uttered a word since her arrival a week before , talked and laughed quite merrily and girlishly , thanking Cyrilla unreservedly for her `` jolly letter . ''
Old Mr. Grant did not grumble once about the rain or the food or his rheumatism and he told Carol that she might be a good letter writer in time if she looked after her grammar more carefully -- which , from Mr. Grant , was high praise .
All the others declared that they were delighted with their letters -- all except Miss Marshall .
She said nothing but later on , when Cyrilla was going upstairs , she met Miss Marshall in the shadows of the second landing .
`` My dear , '' said Miss Marshall gently , `` I want to thank you for your letter , I do n't think you can realize just what it has meant to me .
I was so -- so lonely and tired and discouraged .
It heartened me right up .
I -- I know you have thought me a cross and disagreeable person .
I 'm afraid I have been , too .
But -- but -- I shall try to be less so in future .
If I ca n't succeed all at once do n't mind me because , under it all , I shall always be your friend .
And I mean to keep your letter and read it over every time I feel myself getting bitter and hard again . ''
`` Dear Miss Marshall , I 'm so glad you liked it , '' said Cyrilla frankly .
`` We 're all your friends and would be glad to be chummy with you .
Only we thought perhaps we bothered you with our nonsense . ''
`` Come and see me sometimes , '' said Miss Marshall with a smile .
`` I 'll try to be ` chummy ' -- perhaps I 'm not yet too old to learn the secret of friendliness .
Your letter has made me think that I have missed much in shutting all young life out from mine as I have done .
I want to reform in this respect if I can . ''
When Cyrilla reached the front room she found Mrs. Plunkett there .
`` I 've just dropped in , Miss Blair , '' said that worthy woman , `` to say that I dunno as I mind your making candy once in a while if you want to .
Only do be careful not to set the place on fire .
Please be particularly careful not to set it on fire . ''
`` We 'll try , '' promised Cyrilla with dancing eyes .
When the door closed behind Mrs. Plunkett the three girls looked at each other .
`` Cyrilla , that idea of yours was a really truly inspiration , '' said Carol solemnly .
`` I believe it was , '' said Cyrilla , thinking of Miss Marshall .
Dorinda 's Desperate Deed Dorinda had been home for a whole wonderful week and the little Pages were beginning to feel acquainted with her .
When a girl goes away when she is ten and does n't come back until she is fifteen , it is only to be expected that her family should regard her as somewhat of a stranger , especially when she is really a Page , and they are really all Carters except for the name .
Dorinda had been only ten when her Aunt Mary -- on the Carter side -- had written to Mrs. Page , asking her to let Dorinda come to her for the winter .
Mrs. Page , albeit she was poor -- nobody but herself knew how poor -- and a widow with five children besides Dorinda , hesitated at first .
She was afraid , with good reason , that the winter might stretch into other seasons ; but Mary had lost her own only little girl in the summer , and Mrs. Page shuddered at the thought of what her loneliness must be .
So , to comfort her , Mrs. Page had let Dorinda go , stipulating that she must come home in the spring .
In the spring , when Dorinda 's bed of violets was growing purple under the lilac bush , Aunt Mary wrote again .
Dorinda was contented and happy , she said .
Would not Emily let her stay for the summer ?
Mrs. Page cried bitterly over that letter and took sad counsel with herself .
To let Dorinda stay with her aunt for the summer really meant , she knew , to let her stay altogether .
Mrs. Page was finding it harder and harder to get along ; there was so little and the children needed so much ; Dorinda would have a good home with her Aunt Mary if she could only prevail on her rebellious mother heart to give her up .
In the end she agreed to let Dorinda stay for the summer -- and Dorinda had never been home since .
But now Dorinda had come back to the little white house on the hill at Willowdale , set back from the road in a smother of apple trees and vines .
Aunt Mary had died very suddenly and her only son , Dorinda 's cousin , had gone to Japan .
There was nothing for Dorinda to do save to come home , to enter again into her old unfilled place in her mother 's heart , and win a new place in the hearts of the brothers and sisters who barely remembered her at all .
Leicester had been nine and Jean seven when Dorinda went away ; now they were respectively fourteen and twelve .
At first they were a little shy with this big , practically brand-new sister , but this soon wore off .
Nobody could be shy long with Dorinda ; nobody could help liking her .
She was so brisk and jolly and sympathetic -- a real Page , so everybody said -- while the brothers and sisters were Carter to their marrow ; Carters with fair hair and blue eyes , and small , fine , wistful features ; but Dorinda had merry black eyes , plump , dusky-red cheeks , and a long braid of glossy dark hair , which was perpetually being twitched from one shoulder to another as Dorinda whisked about the house on domestic duties intent .
In a week Dorinda felt herself one of the family again , with all the cares and responsibilities thereof resting on her strong young shoulders .
Dorinda and her mother talked matters out fully one afternoon over their sewing , in the sunny south room where the winds got lost among the vines halfway through the open window .
Mrs. Page sighed and said she really did not know what to do .
Dorinda did not sigh ; she did not know just what to do either , but there must be something that could be done -- there is always something that can be done , if one can only find it .
Dorinda sewed hard and pursed up her red lips determinedly .
`` Do n't you worry , Mother Page , '' she said briskly .
`` We 'll be like that glorious old Roman who found a way or made it .
I like overcoming difficulties .
I 've lots of old Admiral Page 's fighting blood in me , you know .
The first step is to tabulate just exactly what difficulties among our many difficulties must be ravelled out first -- the capital difficulties , as it were .
Most important of all comes -- '' `` Leicester , '' said Mrs. Page .
Dorinda winked her eyes as she always did when she was doubtful .
`` Well , I knew he was one of them , but I was n't going to put him the very first .
However , we will .
Leicester 's case stands thus .
He is a pretty smart boy -- if he was n't my brother , I 'd say he was a very smart boy .
He has gone as far in his studies as Willowdale School can take him , has qualified for entrance into the Blue Hill Academy , wants to go there this fall and begin the beginnings of a college course .
Well , of course , Mother Page , we ca n't send Leicester to Blue Hill any more than we can send him to the moon . ''
`` No , '' mourned Mrs. Page , `` and the poor boy feels so badly over it .
His heart is set on going to college and being a doctor like his father .
He believes he could work his way through , if he could only get a start .
But there is n't any chance .
And I ca n't afford to keep him at school any longer .
He is going into Mr. Churchill 's store at Willow Centre in the fall .
Mr. Churchill has very kindly offered him a place .
Leicester hates the thought of it -- I know he does , although he never says so . ''
`` Next to Leicester 's college course we want -- '' `` Music lessons for Jean . ''
Dorinda winked again .
`` Are music lessons for Jean really a difficulty ? ''
she said .
`` That is , one spelled with a capital ? ''
`` Oh , yes , Dorinda dear .
At least , I 'm worried over it .
Jean loves music so , and she has never had anything , poor child , not even as much school as she ought to have had .
I 've had to keep her home so much to help me with the work .
She has been such a good , patient little girl too , and her heart is set on music lessons . ''
`` Well , she must have them then -- after we get Leicester 's year at the academy for him .
That 's two .
The third is a new -- '' `` The roof must be shingled this fall , '' said Mrs. Page anxiously .
`` It really must , Dorinda .
It is no better than a sieve .
We are nearly drowned every time it rains .
But I do n't know where the money to do it is going to come from . ''
`` Shingles for the roof , three , '' said Dorinda , as if she were carefully jotting down something in a mental memorandum .
`` And fourth -- now , Mother Page , I will have my say this time -- fourthly , biggest capital of all , a Nice , New Dress and a Warm Fur Coat for Mother Page this winter .
Yes , yes , you must have them , dearest .
It 's absolutely necessary .
We can wait a year or so for college courses and music lessons to grow ; we can set basins under the leaks and borrow some more if we have n't enough .
But a new dress and coat for you we must , shall , and will have , however it is to be brought about . ''
`` I would n't mind if I never got another new stitch , if I could only manage the other things , '' said Mrs. Page stoutly .
`` If your Uncle Eugene would only help us a little , until Leicester got through !
He really ought to .
But of course he never will . ''
`` Have you ever asked him ? ''
said Dorinda .
`` Oh , my dear , no ; of course not , '' said Mrs. Page in a horrified tone , as if Dorinda had asked if she had ever stolen a neighbour 's spoons .
`` I do n't see why you should n't , '' said Dorinda seriously .
`` Oh , Dorinda , Uncle Eugene hates us all .
He is terribly bitter against us .
He would never , never listen to any request for help , even if I could bring myself to make it . ''
`` Mother , what was the trouble between us and Uncle Eugene ?
I have never known the rights of it .
I was too small to understand when I was home before .
All I remember is that Uncle Eugene never came to see us or spoke to us when he met us anywhere , and we were all afraid of him somehow .
I used to think of him as an ogre who would come creeping up the back stairs after dark and carry me off bodily if I was n't good .
What made him our enemy ?
And how did he come to get all of Grandfather Page 's property when Father got nothing ? ''
`` Well , you know , Dorinda , that your Grandfather Page was married twice .
Eugene was his first wife 's son , and your father the second wife 's .
Eugene was a great deal older than your father -- he was twenty-five when your father was born .
He was always an odd man , even in his youth , and he had been much displeased at his father 's second marriage .
But he was very fond of your father -- whose mother , as you know , died at his birth -- and they were good friends and comrades until just before your father went to college .
They then quarrelled ; the cause of the quarrel was insignificant ; with anyone else than Eugene a reconciliation would soon have been effected .
But Eugene never was friendly with your father from that time .
I think he was jealous of old Grandfather 's affection ; thought the old man loved your father best .
And then , as I have said , he was very eccentric and stubborn .
Well , your father went away to college and graduated , and then -- we were married .
Grandfather Page was very angry with him for marrying me .
He wanted him to marry somebody else .
He told him he would disinherit him if he married me .
I did not know this until we were married .
But Grandfather Page kept his word .
He sent for a lawyer and had a new will made , leaving everything to Eugene .
I think , nay , I am sure , that he would have relented in time , but he died the very next week ; they found him dead in his bed one morning , so Eugene got everything ; and that is all there is of the story , Dorinda . ''
`` And Uncle Eugene has been our enemy ever since ? ''
`` Yes , ever since .
So you see , Dorinda dear , that I can not ask any favours of Uncle Eugene . ''
`` Yes , I see , '' said Dorinda understandingly .
To herself she added , `` But I do n't see why I should n't . ''
Dorinda thought hard and long for the next few days about the capital difficulties .
She could think of only one thing to do and , despite old Admiral Page 's fighting blood , she shrank from doing it .
But one night she found Leicester with his head down on his books and -- no , it could n't be tears in his eyes , because Leicester laughed scornfully at the insinuation .
`` I would n't cry over it , Dorinda ; I hope I 'm more of a man than that .
But I do really feel rather cut up because I 've no chance of getting to college .
And I hate the thought of going into a store .
But I know I must for Mother 's sake , and I mean to pitch in and like it in spite of myself when the time comes .
Only -- only -- '' And then Leicester got up and whistled and went to the window and stood with his back to Dorinda .
`` That settles it , '' said Dorinda out loud , as she brushed her hair before the glass that night .
`` I 'll do it . ''
`` Do what ? ''
asked Jean from the bed .
`` A desperate deed , '' said Dorinda solemnly , and that was all she would say .
Next day Mrs. Page and Leicester went to town on business .
In the afternoon Dorinda put on her best dress and hat and started out .
Admiral Page 's fighting blood was glowing in her cheeks as she walked briskly up the hill road , but her heart beat in an odd fashion .
`` I wonder if I am a little scared , ` way down deep , '' said Dorinda .
`` I believe I am .
But I 'm going to do it for all that , and the scareder I get the more I 'll do it . ''
Oaklawn , where Uncle Eugene lived , was two miles away .
It was a fine old place in beautiful grounds .
But Dorinda did not quail before its splendours ; nor did her heart fail her , even after she had rung the bell and had been shown by a maid into a very handsome parlour , but it still continued to beat in that queer fashion halfway up her throat .
Presently Uncle Eugene came in , a tall , black-eyed old man , with a fine head of silver hair that should have framed a ruddy , benevolent face , instead of Uncle Eugene 's hard-lipped , bushy-browed countenance .
Dorinda stood up , dusky and crimson , with brave , glowing eyes .
Uncle Eugene looked at her sharply .
`` Who are you ? ''
he said bluntly .
`` I am your niece , Dorinda Page , '' said Dorinda steadily .
`` And what does my niece , Dorinda Page , want with me ? ''
demanded Uncle Eugene , motioning to her to sit down and sitting down himself .
But Dorinda remained standing .
It is easier to fight on your feet .
`` I want you to do four things , Uncle Eugene , '' she said , as calmly as if she were making the most natural and ordinary request in the world .
`` I want you to lend us the money to send Leicester to Blue Hill Academy ; he will pay it back to you when he gets through college .
I want you to lend Jean the money for music lessons ; she will pay you back when she gets far enough along to give lessons herself .
And I want you to lend me the money to shingle our house and get Mother a new dress and fur coat for the winter .
I 'll pay you back sometime for that , because I am going to set up as a dressmaker pretty soon . ''
`` Anything more ? ''
said Uncle Eugene , when Dorinda stopped .
`` Nothing more just now , I think , '' said Dorinda reflectively .
`` Why do n't you ask for something for yourself ? ''
said Uncle Eugene .
`` I do n't want anything for myself , '' said Dorinda promptly .
`` Or -- yes , I do , too .
I want your friendship , Uncle Eugene . ''
`` Be kind enough to sit down , '' said Uncle Eugene .
Dorinda sat .
`` You are a Page , '' said Uncle Eugene .
`` I saw that as soon as I came in .
I will send Leicester to college and I shall not ask or expect to be paid back .
Jean shall have her music lessons , and a piano to practise them on as well .
The house shall be shingled , and the money for the new dress and coat shall be forthcoming .
You and I will be friends . ''
`` Thank you , '' gasped Dorinda , wondering if , after all , it was n't a dream .
`` I would have gladly assisted your mother before , '' said Uncle Eugene , `` if she had asked me .
I had determined that she must ask me first .
I knew that half the money should have been your father 's by rights .
I was prepared to hand it over to him or his family , if I were asked for it .
But I wished to humble his pride , and the Carter pride , to the point of asking for it .
Not a very amiable temper , you will say ?
I admit it .
I am not amiable and I never have been amiable .
You must be prepared to find me very unamiable .
I see that you are waiting for a chance to say something polite and pleasant on that score , but you may save yourself the trouble .
I shall hope and expect to have you visit me often .
If your mother and your brothers and sisters see fit to come with you , I shall welcome them also .
I think that this is all it is necessary to say just now .
Will you stay to tea with me this evening ? ''
Dorinda stayed to tea , since she knew that Jean was at home to attend to matters there .
She and Uncle Eugene got on famously .
When she left , Uncle Eugene , grim and hard-lipped as ever , saw her to the door .
`` Good evening , Niece Dorinda .
You are a Page and I am proud of you .
Tell your mother that many things in this life are lost through not asking for them .
I do n't think you are in need of the information for yourself . ''
Her Own People The Taunton School had closed for the summer holidays .
Constance Foster and Miss Channing went down the long , elm-shaded street together , as they generally did , because they happened to board on the same block downtown .
Constance was the youngest teacher on the staff , and had charge of the Primary Department .
She had taught in Taunton school a year , and at its close she was as much of a stranger in the little corps of teachers as she had been at the beginning .
The others thought her stiff and unapproachable ; she was unpopular in a negative way with all except Miss Channing , who made it a profession to like everybody , the more so if other people disliked them .
Miss Channing was the oldest teacher on the staff , and taught the fifth grade .
She was short and stout and jolly ; nothing , not even the iciest reserve , ever daunted Miss Channing .
`` Is n't it good to think of two whole blessed months of freedom ? ''
she said jubilantly .
`` Two months to dream , to be lazy , to go where one pleases , no exercises to correct , no reports to make , no pupils to keep in order .
To be sure , I love them every one , but I 'll love them all the more for a bit of a rest from them .
Is n't it good ? ''
A little satirical smile crossed Constance Foster 's dark , discontented face , looking just then all the more discontented in contrast to Miss Channing 's rosy , beaming countenance .
`` It 's very good , if you have anywhere to go , or anybody who cares where you go , '' she said bitterly .
`` For my own part , I 'm sorry school is closed .
I 'd rather go on teaching all summer . ''
`` Heresy ! ''
said Miss Channing .
`` Rank heresy !
What are your vacation plans ? ''
`` I have n't any , '' said Constance wearily .
`` I 've put off thinking about vacation as long as I possibly could .
You 'll call that heresy , too , Miss Channing . ''
`` It 's worse than heresy , '' said Miss Channing briskly .
`` It 's a crying necessity for blue pills , that 's what it is .
Your whole mental and moral and physical and spiritual system must be out of kilter , my child .
No vacation plans !
You must have vacation plans .
You must be going somewhere . ''
`` Oh , I suppose I 'll hunt up a boarding place somewhere in the country , and go there and mope until September . ''
`` Have you no friends , Constance ? ''
`` No -- no , I have n't anybody in the world .
That is why I hate vacation , that is why I 've hated to hear you and the others discussing your vacation plans .
You all have somebody to go to .
It has just filled me up with hatred of my life . ''
Miss Channing swallowed her honest horror at such a state of feeling .
`` Constance , tell me about yourself .
I 've often wanted to ask you , but I was always a little afraid to .
You seem so reserved and -- and , as if you did n't want to be asked about yourself . ''
`` I know it .
I know I 'm stiff and hateful , and that nobody likes me , and that it is all my own fault .
No , never mind trying to smooth it over , Miss Channing .
It 's the truth , and it hurts me , but I ca n't help it .
I 'm getting more bitter and pessimistic and unwholesome every day of my life .
Sometimes it seems as if I hated all the world because I 'm so lonely in it .
I 'm nobody .
My mother died when I was born -- and Father -- oh , I do n't know .
One ca n't say anything against one 's father , Miss Channing .
But I had a hard childhood -- or rather , I did n't have any childhood at all .
We were always moving about .
We did n't seem to have any friends at all .
My mother might have had relatives somewhere , but I never heard of any .
I do n't even know where her home was .
Father never would talk of her .
He died two years ago , and since then I 've been absolutely alone . ''
`` Oh , you poor girl , '' said Miss Channing softly .
`` I want friends , '' went on Constance , seeming to take a pleasure in open confession now that her tongue was loosed .
`` I 've always just longed for somebody belonging to me to love .
I do n't love anybody , Miss Channing , and when a girl is in that state , she is all wrong .
She gets hard and bitter and resentful -- I have , anyway .
I struggled against it at first , but it has been too much for me .
It poisons everything .
There is nobody to care anything about me , whether I live or die . ''
`` Oh , yes , there is One , '' said Miss Channing gently .
`` God cares , Constance . ''
Constance gave a disagreeable little laugh .
`` That sounds like Miss Williams -- she is so religious .
God does n't mean anything to me , Miss Channing .
I 've just the same resentful feeling toward him that I have for all the world , if he exists at all .
There , I 've shocked you in good earnest now .
You should have left me alone , Miss Channing . ''
`` God means nothing to you because you 've never had him translated to you through human love , Constance , '' said Miss Channing seriously .
`` No , you have n't shocked me -- at least , not in the way you mean .
I 'm only terribly sorry . ''
`` Oh , never mind me , '' said Constance , freezing up into her reserve again as if she regretted her confidences .
`` I 'll get along all right .
This is one of my off days , when everything looks black . ''
Miss Channing walked on in silence .
She must help Constance , but Constance was not easily helped .
When school reopened , she might be able to do something worthwhile for the girl , but just now the only thing to do was to put her in the way of a pleasant vacation .
`` You spoke of boarding , '' she said , when Constance paused at the door of her boarding-house .
`` Have you any particular place in view ?
No ?
Well , I know a place which I am sure you would like .
I was there two summers ago .
It is a country place about a hundred miles from here .
Pine Valley is its name .
It 's restful and homey , and the people are so nice .
If you like , I 'll give you the address of the family I boarded with . ''
`` Thank you , '' said Constance indifferently .
`` I might as well go there as anywhere else . ''
`` Yes , but listen to me , dear .
Do n't take your morbidness with you .
Open your heart to the summer , and let its sunshine in , and when you come back in the fall , come prepared to let us all be your friends .
We 'd like to be , and while friendship does n't take the place of the love of one 's own people , still it is a good and beautiful thing .
Besides , there are other unhappy people in the world -- try to help them when you meet them , and you 'll forget about yourself .
Good-by for now , and I hope you 'll have a pleasant vacation in spite of yourself . ''
Constance went to Pine Valley , but she took her evil spirit with her .
Not even the beauty of the valley , with its great balmy pines , and the cheerful friendliness of its people could exorcise it .
Nevertheless , she liked the place and found a wholesome pleasure in the long tramps she took along the piney roads .
`` I saw such a pretty spot in my ramble this afternoon , '' she told her landlady one evening .
`` It is about three miles from here at the end of the valley .
Such a picturesque , low-eaved little house , all covered over with honeysuckle .
It was set between a big orchard and an old-fashioned flower garden with great pines at the back . ''
`` Heartsease Farm , '' said Mrs. Hewitt promptly .
`` Bless you , there 's only one place around here of that description .
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce , Uncle Charles and Aunt Flora , as we all call them , live there .
They are the dearest old couple alive .
You ought to go and see them , they 'd be delighted .
Aunt Flora just loves company .
They 're real lonesome by times . ''
`` Have n't they any children ? ''
asked Constance indifferently .
Her interest was in the place , not in the people .
`` No .
They had a niece once , though .
They brought her up and they just worshipped her .
She ran away with a worthless fellow -- I forget his name , if I ever knew it .
He was handsome and smooth-tongued , but he was a scamp .
She died soon after and it just broke their hearts .
They do n't even know where she was buried , and they never heard anything more about her husband .
I 've heard that Aunt Flora 's hair turned snow-white in a month .
I 'll take you up to see her some day when I find time . ''
Mrs. Hewitt did not find time , but thereafter Constance ordered her rambles that she might frequently pass Heartsease Farm .
The quaint old spot had a strange attraction for her .
She found herself learning to love it , and so unused was this unfortunate girl to loving anything that she laughed at herself for her foolishness .
One evening a fortnight later Constance , with her arms full of ferns and wood-lilies , came out of the pine woods above Heartsease Farm just as heavy raindrops began to fall .
She had prolonged her ramble unseasonably , and it was now nearly night , and very certainly a rainy night at that .
She was three miles from home and without even an extra wrap .
She hurried down the lane , but by the time she reached the main road , the few drops had become a downpour .
She must seek shelter somewhere , and Heartsease Farm was the nearest .
She pushed open the gate and ran up the slope of the yard between the hedges of sweetbriar .
She was spared the trouble of knocking , for as she came to a breathless halt on the big red sandstone doorstep , the door was flung open , and the white-haired , happy-faced little woman standing on the threshold had seized her hand and drawn her in bodily before she could speak a word .
`` I saw you coming from upstairs , '' said Aunt Flora gleefully , `` and I just ran down as fast as I could .
Dear , dear , you are a little wet .
But we 'll soon dry you .
Come right in -- I 've a bit of a fire in the grate , for the evening is chilly .
They laughed at me for loving a fire so , but there 's nothing like its snap and sparkle .
You 're rained in for the night , and I 'm as glad as I can be .
I know who you are -- you are Miss Foster .
I 'm Aunt Flora , and this is Uncle Charles . ''
Constance let herself be put into a cushiony chair and fussed over with an unaccustomed sense of pleasure .
The rain was coming down in torrents , and she certainly was domiciled at Heartsease Farm for the night .
Somehow , she felt glad of it .
Mrs. Hewitt was right in calling Aunt Flora sweet , and Uncle Charles was a big , jolly , ruddy-faced old man with a hearty manner .
He shook Constance 's hand until it ached , threw more pine knots in the fire and told her he wished it would rain every night if it rained down a nice little girl like her .
She found herself strangely attracted to the old couple .
The name of their farm was in perfect keeping with their atmosphere .
Constance 's frozen soul expanded in it .
She chatted merrily and girlishly , feeling as if she had known them all her life .
When bedtime came , Aunt Flora took her upstairs to a little gable room .
`` My spare room is all in disorder just now , dearie , we have been painting its floor .
So I 'm going to put you here in Jeannie 's room .
Someway you remind me of her , and you are just about the age she was when she left us .
If it was n't for that , I do n't think I could put you in her room , not even if every other floor in the house were being painted .
It is so sacred to me .
I keep it just as she left it , not a thing is changed .
Good night dearie , and I hope you 'll have pleasant dreams . ''
When Constance found herself alone in the room , she looked about her with curiosity .
It was a very dainty , old-fashioned little room .
The floor was covered with braided mats ; the two square , small-paned windows were draped with snowy muslin .
In one corner was a little white bed with white curtains and daintily ruffled pillows , and in the other a dressing table with a gilt-framed mirror and the various knick-knacks of a girlish toilet .
There was a little blue rocker and an ottoman with a work-basket on it .
In the work-basket was a bit of unfinished , yellowed lace with a needle sticking in it .
A small bookcase under the sloping ceiling was filled with books .
Constance picked up one and opened it at the yellowing title-page .
She gave a little cry of surprise .
The name written across the page in a fine , dainty script was `` Jean Constance Irving , '' her mother 's name !
For a moment Constance stood motionless .
Then she turned impulsively and hurried downstairs again .
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce were still in the sitting room talking to each other in the firelight .
`` Oh , '' cried Constance excitedly .
`` I must know , I must ask you .
This is my mother 's name , Jean Constance Irving , can it be possible she was your little Jeannie ? ''
* * * * * A fortnight later Miss Channing received a letter from Constance .
`` I am so happy , '' she wrote .
`` Oh , Miss Channing , I have found ` mine own people , ' and Heartsease Farm is to be my own , own dear home for always .
`` It was such a strange coincidence , no , Aunt Flora says it was Providence , and I believe it was , too .
I came here one rainy night , and Aunty put me in my mother 's room , think of it !
My own dear mother 's room , and I found her name in a book .
And now the mystery is all cleared up , and we are so happy .
`` Everything is dear and beautiful , and almost the dearest and most beautiful thing is that I am getting acquainted with my mother , the mother I never knew before .
She no longer seems dead to me .
I feel that she lives and loves me , and I am learning to know her better every day .
I have her room and her books and all her little girlish possessions .
When I read her books , with their passages underlined by her hand , I feel as if she were speaking to me .
She was very good and sweet , in spite of her one foolish , bitter mistake , and I want to be as much like her as I can .
`` I said that this was almost the dearest and most beautiful thing .
The very dearest and most beautiful is this -- God means something to me now .
He means so much !
I remember that you said to me that he meant nothing to me because I had no human love in my heart to translate the divine .
But I have now , and it has led me to Him .
`` I am not going back to Taunton .
I have sent in my resignation .
I am going to stay home with Aunty and Uncle .
It is so sweet to say home and know what it means .
`` Aunty says you must come and spend all your next vacation with us .
You see , I have lots of vacation plans now , even for a year ahead .
After all , there is no need of the blue pills !
`` I feel like a new creature , made over from the heart and soul out .
I look back with shame and contrition on the old Constance .
I want you to forget her and only remember your grateful friend , the new Constance . ''
Ida 's New Year Cake Mary Craig and Sara Reid and Josie Pye had all flocked into Ida Mitchell 's room at their boarding-house to condole with each other because none of them was able to go home for New Year 's .
Mary and Josie had been home for Christmas , so they did n't really feel so badly off .
But Ida and Sara had n't even that consolation .
Ida was a third-year student at the Clifton Academy ; she had holidays , and nowhere , so she mournfully affirmed , to spend them .
At home three brothers and a sister were down with the measles , and , as Ida had never had them , she could not go there ; and the news had come too late for her to make any other arrangements .
Mary and Josie were clerks in a Clifton bookstore , and Sara was stenographer in a Clifton lawyer 's office .
And they were all jolly and thoughtless and very fond of one another .
`` This will be the first New Year 's I have ever spent away from home , '' sighed Sara , nibbling chocolate fudge .
`` It does make me so blue to think of it .
And not even a holiday -- I 'll have to go to work just the same .
Now Ida here , she does n't really need sympathy .
She has holidays -- a whole fortnight -- and nothing to do but enjoy them . ''
`` Holidays are dismal things when you 've nowhere to holiday , '' said Ida mournfully .
`` The time drags horribly .
But never mind , girls , I 've a plummy bit of news for you .
I 'd a letter from Mother today and , bless the dear woman , she is sending me a cake -- a New Year 's cake -- a great big , spicy , mellow , delicious fruit cake .
It will be along tomorrow and , girls , we 'll celebrate when it comes .
I 've asked everybody in the house up to my room for New Year 's Eve , and we 'll have a royal good time . ''
`` How splendid ! ''
said Mary .
`` There 's nothing I like more than a slice of real countrified home-made fruit cake , where they do n't scrimp on eggs or butter or raisins .
You 'll give me a good big piece , wo n't you , Ida ? ''
`` As much as you can eat , '' promised Ida .
`` I can warrant Mother 's fruit cake .
Yes , we 'll have a jamboree .
Miss Monroe has promised to come in too .
She says she has a weakness for fruit cake . ''
`` Oh ! ''
breathed all the girls .
Miss Monroe was their idol , whom they had to be content to worship at a distance as a general thing .
She was a clever journalist , who worked on a paper , and was reputed to be writing a book .
The girls felt they were highly privileged to be boarding in the same house , and counted that day lost on which they did not receive a businesslike nod or an absent-minded smile from Miss Monroe .
If she ever had time to speak to one of them about the weather , that fortunate one put on airs for a week .
And now to think that she had actually promised to drop into Ida 's room on New Year 's Eve and eat fruit cake !
`` There goes that funny little namesake of yours , Ida , '' said Josie , who was sitting by the window .
`` She seems to be staying in town over the holidays too .
Wonder why .
Perhaps she does n't belong anywhere .
She really is a most forlorn-appearing little mortal . ''
There were two Ida Mitchells attending the Clifton Academy .
The other Ida was a plain , quiet , pale-faced little girl of fifteen who was in the second year .
Beyond that , none of the third-year Ida Mitchell 's set knew anything about her , or tried to find out .
`` She must be very poor , '' said Ida carelessly .
`` She dresses so shabbily , and she always looks so pinched and subdued .
She boards in a little house out on Marlboro Road , and I pity her if she has to spend her holidays there , for a more dismal place I never saw .
I was there once on the trail of a book I had lost .
Going , girls ?
Well , do n't forget tomorrow night . ''
Ida spent the next day decorating her room and watching for the arrival of her cake .
It had n't come by tea-time , and she concluded to go down to the express office and investigate .
It would be dreadful if that cake did n't turn up in time , with all the girls and Miss Monroe coming in .
Ida felt that she would be mortified to death .
Inquiry at the express office discovered two things .
A box had come in for Miss Ida Mitchell , Clifton ; and said box had been delivered to Miss Ida Mitchell , Clifton .
`` One of our clerks said he knew you personally -- boarded next door to you -- and he 'd take it round himself , '' the manager informed her .
`` There must be some mistake , '' said Ida in perplexity .
`` I do n't know any of the clerks here .
Oh -- why -- there 's another Ida Mitchell in town !
Can it be possible my cake has gone to her ? ''
The manager thought it very possible , and offered to send around and see .
But Ida said it was on her way home and she would call herself .
At the dismal little house on Marlboro Road she was sent up three flights of stairs to the other Ida Mitchell 's small hall bedroom .
The other Ida Mitchell opened the door for her .
Behind her , on the table , was the cake -- such a fine , big , brown cake , with raisins sticking out all over it !
`` Why , how do you do , Miss Mitchell ! ''
exclaimed the other Ida with shy pleasure .
`` Come in .
I did n't know you were in town .
It 's real good of you to come and see me .
And just see what I 've had sent to me !
Is n't it a beauty ?
I was so surprised when it came -- and , oh , so glad !
I was feeling so blue and lonesome -- as if I had n't a friend in the world .
I -- I -- yes , I was crying when that cake came .
It has just made the world over for me .
Do sit down and I 'll cut you a piece .
I 'm sure you 're as fond of fruit cake as I am . ''
Ida sat down in a chair , feeling bewildered and awkward .
This was a nice predicament !
How could she tell that other Ida that the cake did n't belong to her ?
The poor thing was so delighted .
And , oh , what a bare , lonely little room !
The big , luxurious cake seemed to emphasize the bareness and loneliness .
`` Who -- who sent it to you ? ''
she asked lamely .
`` It must have been Mrs. Henderson , because there is nobody else who would , '' answered the other Ida .
`` Two years ago I was going to school in Trenton and I boarded with her .
When I left her to come to Clifton she told me she would send me a cake for Christmas .
Well , I expected that cake last year -- and it did n't come .
I ca n't tell you how disappointed I was .
You 'll think me very childish .
But I was so lonely , with no home to go to like the other girls .
But she sent it this year , you see .
It is so nice to think that somebody has remembered me at New Year 's .
It is n't the cake itself -- it 's the thought behind it .
It has just made all the difference in the world .
There -- just sample it , Miss Mitchell . ''
The other Ida cut a generous slice from the cake and passed it to her guest .
Her eyes were shining and her cheeks were flushed .
She was really a very sweet-looking little thing -- not a bit like her usual pale , timid self .
Ida ate the cake slowly .
What was she to do ?
She could n't tell the other Ida the truth about the cake .
But the girls she had asked in to help eat it that very evening !
And Miss Monroe !
Oh , dear , it was too bad .
But it could n't be helped .
She would n't blot out that light on the other Ida 's face for anything !
Of course , she would find out the truth in time -- probably after she had written to thank Mrs. Henderson for the cake ; but meanwhile she would have enjoyed the cake , and the supposed kindness back of it would tide her over her New Year loneliness .
`` It 's delicious , '' said Ida heartily , swallowing her own disappointment with the cake .
`` I 'm -- I 'm glad I happened to drop in as I was passing . ''
Ida hoped that speech did n't come under the head of a fib .
`` So am I , '' said the other Ida brightly .
`` Oh , I 've been so lonesome and downhearted this week .
I 'm so alone , you see -- there is n't anybody to care .
Father died three years ago , and I do n't remember my mother at all .
There is nobody but myself , and it is dreadfully lonely at times .
When the Academy is open and I have my lessons to study , I do n't mind so much .
But the holidays take all the courage out of me . ''
`` We should have fraternized more this week , '' smiled Ida , regretting that she had n't thought of it before .
`` I could n't go home because of the measles , and I 've moped a lot .
We might have spent the time together and had a real nice , jolly holiday . ''
The other Ida blushed with delight .
`` I 'd love to be friends with you , '' she said slowly .
`` I 've often thought I 'd like to know you .
Is n't it odd that we have the same name ?
It was so nice of you to come and see me .
I -- I 'd love to have you come often . ''
`` I will , '' said Ida heartily .
`` Perhaps you will stay the evening , '' suggested the other Ida .
`` I 've asked some of the girls who board here in to have some cake , I 'm so glad to be able to give them something -- they 've all been so good to me .
They are all clerks in stores and some of them are so tired and lonely .
It 's so nice to have a pleasure to share with them .
Wo n't you stay ? ''
`` I 'd like to , '' laughed Ida , `` but I have some guests of my own invited in for tonight .
I must hurry home , for they will most surely be waiting for me . ''
She laughed again as she thought what else the guests would be waiting for .
But her face was sober enough as she walked home .
`` But I 'm glad I left the cake with her , '' she said resolutely .
`` Poor little thing !
It means so much to her .
It meant only ' a good feed , ' as Josie says , to me .
I 'm simply going to make it my business next term to be good friends with the other Ida Mitchell .
I 'm afraid we third-year girls are very self-centred and selfish .
And I know what I 'll do !
I 'll write to Abby Morton in Trenton to send me Mrs. Henderson 's address , and I 'll write her a letter and ask her not to let Ida know she did n't send the cake . ''
Ida went into a confectionery store and invested in what Josie Pye was wont to call `` ready-to-wear eatables '' -- fancy cakes , fruit , and candies .
When she reached her room she found it full of expectant girls , with Miss Monroe enthroned in the midst of them -- Miss Monroe in a wonderful evening dress of black lace and yellow silk , with roses in her hair and pearls on her neck -- all donned in honour of Ida 's little celebration .
I wo n't say that , just for a moment , Ida did n't regret that she had given up her cake .
`` Good evening , Miss Mitchell , '' cried Mary Craig gaily .
`` Walk right in and make yourself at home in your own room , do !
We all met in the hall , and knocked and knocked .
Finally Miss Monroe came , so we made bold to walk right in .
Where is the only and original fruit cake , Ida ?
My mouth has been watering all day . ''
`` The other Ida Mitchell is probably entertaining her friends at this moment with my fruit cake , '' said Ida , with a little laugh .
Then she told the whole story .
`` I 'm so sorry to disappoint you , '' she concluded , `` but I simply could n't tell that poor , lonely child that the cake was n't intended for her .
I 've brought all the goodies home with me that I could buy , and we 'll have to do the best we can without the fruit cake . ''
Their `` best '' proved to be a very good thing .
They had a jolly New Year 's Eve , and Miss Monroe sparkled and entertained most brilliantly .
They kept their celebration up until twelve to welcome the new year in , and then they bade Ida good night .
But Miss Monroe lingered for a moment behind the others to say softly : `` I want to tell you how good and sweet I think it was of you to give up your cake to the other Ida .
That little bit of unselfishness was a good guerdon for your new year . ''
And Ida , radiant-faced at this praise from her idol , answered heartily : `` I 'm afraid I 'm anything but unselfish , Miss Monroe .
But I mean to try to be more this coming year and think a little about the girls outside of my own little set who may be lonely or discouraged .
The other Ida Mitchell is n't going to have to depend on that fruit cake alone for comfort and encouragement for the next twelve months . ''
In the Old Valley The man halted on the crest of the hill and looked sombrely down into the long valley below .
It was evening , and although the hills around him were still in the light the valley was already filled with kindly , placid shadows .
A wind that blew across it from the misty blue sea beyond was making wild music in the rugged firs above his head as he stood in an angle of the weather-grey longer fence , knee-deep in bracken .
It had been by these firs he had halted twenty years ago , turning for one last glance at the valley below , the home valley which he had never seen since .
But then the firs had been little more than vigorous young saplings ; they were tall , gnarled trees now , with lichened trunks , and their lower boughs were dead .
But high up their tops were green and caught the saffron light of the west .
He remembered that when a boy he had thought there was nothing more beautiful than the evening sunshine falling athwart the dark green fir boughs on the hills .
As he listened to the swish and murmur of the wind , the earth-old tune with the power to carry the soul back to the dawn of time , the years fell away from him and he forgot much , remembering more .
He knew now that there had always been a longing in his heart to hear the wind-chant in the firs .
He had called that longing by other names , but he knew it now for what it was when , hearing , he was satisfied .
He was a tall man with iron-grey hair and the face of a conqueror -- strong , pitiless , unswerving .
Eagle eyes , quick to discern and unfaltering to pursue ; jaw square and intrepid ; mouth formed to keep secrets and cajole men to his will -- a face that hid much and revealed little .
It told of power and intellect , but the soul of the man was a hidden thing .
Not in the arena where he had fought and triumphed , giving fierce blow for blow , was it to be shown ; but here , looking down on the homeland , with the strength of the hills about him , it rose dominantly and claimed its own .
The old bond held .
Yonder below him was home -- the old house that had sheltered him , the graves of his kin , the wide fields where his boyhood dreams had been dreamed .
Should he go down to it ?
This was the question he asked himself .
He had come back to it , heartsick of his idols of the marketplace .
For years they had satisfied him , the buying and selling and getting gain , the pitting of strength and craft against strength and craft , the tireless struggle , the exultation of victory .
Then , suddenly , they had failed their worshipper ; they ceased to satisfy ; the sacrifices he had heaped on their altars availed him nothing in this new need and hunger of his being .
His gods mocked him and he wearied of their service .
Were there not better things than these , things he had once known and loved and forgotten ?
Where were the ideals of his youth , the lofty aspirations that had upborne him then ?
Where was the eagerness and zest of new dawns , the earnestness of well-filled , purposeful hours of labour , the satisfaction of a good day worthily lived , at eventide the unbroken rest of long , starry nights ?
Where might he find them again ?
Were they yet to be had for the seeking in the old valley ?
With the thought came a great yearning for home .
He had had many habitations , but he realized now that he had never thought of any of these places as home .
That name had all unconsciously been kept sacred to the long , green , seaward-looking glen where he had been born .
So he had come back to it , drawn by a longing not to be resisted .
But at the last he felt afraid .
There had been many changes , of that he felt sure .
Would it still be home ?
And if not , would not the loss be most irreparable and bitter ?
Would it not be better to go away , having looked at it from the hill and having heard the saga of the firs , keeping his memory of it unblurred , than risk the probable disillusion of a return to the places that had forgotten him and friends whom the varying years must certainly have changed as he had changed himself ?
No , he would not go down .
It had been a foolish whim to come at all -- foolish , because the object of his quest was not to be found there or elsewhere .
He could not enter again into the heritage of boyhood and the heart of youth .
He could not find there the old dreams and hopes that had made life sweet .
He understood that he could not bring back to the old valley what he had taken from it .
He had lost that intangible , all-real wealth of faith and idealism and zest ; he had bartered it away for the hard , yellow gold of the marketplace , and he realized at last how much poorer he was than when he had left that home valley .
His was a name that stood for millions , but he was beggared of hope and purpose .
No , he would not go down .
There was no one left there , unchanged and unchanging , to welcome him .
He would be a stranger there , even among his kin .
He would stay awhile on the hill , until the night came down over it , and then he would go back to his own place .
Down below him , on the crest of a little upland , he saw his old home , a weather-grey house , almost hidden among white birch and apple trees , with a thick fir grove to the north of it .
He had been born in that old house ; his earliest memory was of standing on its threshold and looking afar up to the long green hills .
`` What is over the hills ? ''
he had asked of his mother .
With a smile she had made answer , `` Many things , laddie .
Wonderful things , beautiful things , heart-breaking things . ''
`` Some day I shall go over the hills and find them all , Mother , '' he had said stoutly .
She had laughed and sighed and caught him to her heart .
He had no recollection of his father , who had died soon after his son 's birth , but how well he remembered his mother , his little , brown-eyed , girlish-faced mother !
He had lived on the homestead until he was twenty .
He had tilled the broad fields and gone in and out among the people , and their life had been his life .
But his heart was not in his work .
He wanted to go beyond the hills and seek what he knew must be there .
The valley was too narrow , too placid .
He longed for conflict and accomplishment .
He felt power and desire and the lust of endeavour stirring in him .
Oh , to go over the hills to a world where men lived !
Such had been the goal of all his dreams .
When his mother died he sold the farm to his cousin , Stephen Marshall .
He supposed it still belonged to him .
Stephen had been a good sort of a fellow , a bit slow and plodding , perhaps , bovinely content to dwell within the hills , never hearkening or responding to the lure of the beyond .
Yet it might be he had chosen the better part , to dwell thus on the land of his fathers , with a wife won in youth , and children to grow up around him .
The childless , wifeless man looking down from the hill wondered if it might have been so with him had he been content to stay in the valley .
Perhaps so .
There had been Joyce .
He wondered where Joyce was now and whom she had married , for of course she had married .
Did she too live somewhere down there in the valley , the matronly , contented mother of lads and lassies ?
He could see her old home also , not so far from his own , just across a green meadow by way of a footpath and stile and through the firs beyond it .
How often he had traversed that path in the old days , knowing that Joyce would be waiting at the end of it among the firs -- Joyce , the playmate of childhood , the sweet confidante and companion of youth !
They had never been avowed lovers , but he had loved her then , as a boy loves , although he had never said a word of love to her .
Joyce alone knew of his longings and his ambitions and his dreams ; he had told them all to her freely , sure of the understanding and sympathy no other soul in the valley could give him .
How true and strong and womanly and gentle she had always been !
When he left home he had meant to go back to her some day .
They had parted without pledge or kiss , yet he knew she loved him and that he loved her .
At first they corresponded , then the letters began to grow fewer .
It was his fault ; he had gradually forgotten .
The new , fierce , burning interests that came into his life crowded the old ones out .
Boyhood 's love was scorched up in that hot flame of ambition and contest .
He had not heard from or of Joyce for many years .
Now , again , he remembered as he looked down on the homeland fields .
The old places had changed little , whatever he might fear of the people who lived in them .
There was the school he had attended , a small , low-eaved , white-washed building set back from the main road among green spruces .
Beyond it , amid tall elms , was the old church with its square tower hung with ivy .
He felt glad to see it ; he had expected to see a new church , offensively spick-and-span and modern , for this church had been old when he was a boy .
He recalled the many times he had walked to it on the peaceful Sunday afternoons , sometimes with his mother , sometimes with Joyce .
The sun set far out to sea and sucked down with it all the light out of the winnowed dome of sky .
The stars came out singly and crystal clear over the far purple curves of the hills .
Suddenly , glancing over his shoulder , he saw through an arch of black fir boughs a young moon swung low in a lake of palely tinted saffron sky .
He smiled a little , remembering that in boyhood it had been held a good omen to see the new moon over the right shoulder .
Down in the valley the lights began to twinkle out here and there like earth-stars .
He would wait until he saw the kitchen light from the window of his old home .
Then he would go .
He waited until the whole valley was zoned with a glittering girdle , but no light glimmered out through his native trees .
Why was it lacking , that light he had so often hailed at dark , coming home from boyish rambles on the hills ?
He felt anxious and dissatisfied , as if he could not go away until he had seen it .
When it was quite dark he descended the hill resolutely .
He must know why the homelight had failed him .
When he found himself in the old garden his heart grew sick and sore with disappointment and a bitter homesickness .
It needed but a glance , even in the dimness of the summer night , to see that the old house was deserted and falling to decay .
The kitchen door swung open on rusty hinges ; the windows were broken and lifeless ; weeds grew thickly over the yard and crowded wantonly up to the very threshold through the chinks of the rotten platform .
Cuthbert Marshall sat down on the old red sandstone step of the door and bowed his head in his hands .
This was what he had come back to -- this ghost and wreck of his past !
Oh , bitterness !
From where he sat he saw the new house that Stephen had built beyond the fir grove , with a cheerful light shining from its window .
After a long time he went over to it and knocked at the door .
Stephen came to it , a stout grizzled farmer , with a chubby boy on his shoulder .
He was not much changed ; Cuthbert easily recognized him , but to Stephen Marshall no recognition came of this man with whom he had played and worked for years .
Cuthbert was obliged to tell who he was .
He was made instantly and warmly welcome .
Stephen was unfeignedly glad to see him , and Stephen 's comely wife , whom he remembered as a slim , fresh-cheeked valley girl , extended a kind and graceful hospitality .
The boys and girls , too , soon made friends with him .
Yet he felt himself the stranger and the alien , whom the long , swift-passing years had shut forever from his old place .
He and Stephen talked late that night , and in the morning he yielded to their entreaties to stay another day with them .
He spent it wandering about the farm and the old haunts of wood and stream .
Yet he could not find himself .
This valley had his past in its keeping , but it could not give it back to him ; he had lost the master word that might have compelled it .
He asked Stephen fully about all his old friends and neighbours with one exception .
He could not ask him what had become of Joyce Cameron .
The question was on his lips a dozen times , but he shrank from uttering it .
He had a vague , secret dread that the answer , whatever it might be , would hurt him .
In the evening he yielded to a whim and went across to the Cameron homestead , by the old footpath which was still kept open .
He walked slowly and dreamily , with his eyes on the far hills scarfed in the splendour of sunset .
So he had walked in the old days , but he had no dreams now of what lay beyond the hills , and Joyce would not be waiting among the firs .
The stile he remembered was gone , replaced by a little rustic gate .
As he passed through it he lifted his eyes and there before him he saw her , standing tall and gracious among the grey trees , with the light from the west falling over her face .
So she had stood , so she had looked many an evening of the long-ago .
She had not changed ; he realized that in the first amazed , incredulous glance .
Perhaps there were lines on her face , a thread or two of silver in the soft brown hair , but those splendid steady blue eyes were the same , and the soul of her looked out through them , true to itself , the staunch , brave , sweet soul of the maiden ripened to womanhood .
`` Joyce ! ''
he said , stupidly , unbelievingly .
She smiled and put out her hand .
`` I am glad to see you , Cuthbert , '' she said simply .
`` Stephen 's Mary told me you had come .
And I thought you would be over to see us this evening . ''
She had offered him only one hand but he took both and held her so , looking hungrily down at her as a man looks at something he knows must be his salvation if salvation exists for him .
`` Is it possible you are here still , Joyce ? ''
he said slowly .
`` And you have not changed at all . ''
She coloured slightly and pulled away her hands , laughing .
`` Oh , indeed I have .
I have grown old .
The twilight is so kind it hides that , but it is true .
Come into the house , Cuthbert .
Father and Mother will be glad to see you . ''
`` After a little , '' he said imploringly .
`` Let us stay here awhile first , Joyce .
I want to make sure that this is no dream .
Last night I stood on those hills yonder and looked down , but I meant to go away because I thought there would be no one left to welcome me .
If I had known you were here !
You have lived here in the old valley all these years ? ''
`` All these years , '' she said gently , `` I suppose you think it must have been a very meagre life ? ''
`` No .
I am much wiser now than I was once , Joyce .
I have learned wisdom beyond the hills .
One learns there -- in time -- but sometimes the lesson is learned too late .
