Do you think it could be called auburn now , Diana ? ''
`` Yes , and I think it is real pretty , '' said Diana , looking admiringly at the short , silky curls that clustered over Anne 's head and were held in place by a very jaunty black velvet ribbon and bow .
They were standing on the bank of the pond , below Orchard Slope , where a little headland fringed with birches ran out from the bank ; at its tip was a small wooden platform built out into the water for the convenience of fishermen and duck hunters .
Ruby and Jane were spending the midsummer afternoon with Diana , and Anne had come over to play with them .
Anne and Diana had spent most of their playtime that summer on and about the pond .
Idlewild was a thing of the past , Mr. Bell having ruthlessly cut down the little circle of trees in his back pasture in the spring .
Anne had sat among the stumps and wept , not without an eye to the romance of it ; but she was speedily consoled , for , after all , as she and Diana said , big girls of thirteen , going on fourteen , were too old for such childish amusements as playhouses , and there were more fascinating sports to be found about the pond .
It was splendid to fish for trout over the bridge and the two girls learned to row themselves about in the little flat-bottomed dory Mr. Barry kept for duck shooting .
It was Anne 's idea that they dramatize Elaine .
They had studied Tennyson 's poem in school the preceding winter , the Superintendent of Education having prescribed it in the English course for the Prince Edward Island schools .
They had analyzed and parsed it and torn it to pieces in general until it was a wonder there was any meaning at all left in it for them , but at least the fair lily maid and Lancelot and Guinevere and King Arthur had become very real people to them , and Anne was devoured by secret regret that she had not been born in Camelot .
Those days , she said , were so much more romantic than the present .
Anne 's plan was hailed with enthusiasm .
The girls had discovered that if the flat were pushed off from the landing place it would drift down with the current under the bridge and finally strand itself on another headland lower down which ran out at a curve in the pond .
They had often gone down like this and nothing could be more convenient for playing Elaine .
`` Well , I 'll be Elaine , '' said Anne , yielding reluctantly , for , although she would have been delighted to play the principal character , yet her artistic sense demanded fitness for it and this , she felt , her limitations made impossible .
`` Ruby , you must be King Arthur and Jane will be Guinevere and Diana must be Lancelot .
But first you must be the brothers and the father .
We ca n't have the old dumb servitor because there is n't room for two in the flat when one is lying down .
We must pall the barge all its length in blackest samite .
That old black shawl of your mother 's will be just the thing , Diana . ''
The black shawl having been procured , Anne spread it over the flat and then lay down on the bottom , with closed eyes and hands folded over her breast .
`` Oh , she does look really dead , '' whispered Ruby Gillis nervously , watching the still , white little face under the flickering shadows of the birches .
`` It makes me feel frightened , girls .
Do you suppose it 's really right to act like this ?
Mrs. Lynde says that all play-acting is abominably wicked . ''
`` Ruby , you should n't talk about Mrs. Lynde , '' said Anne severely .
`` It spoils the effect because this is hundreds of years before Mrs. Lynde was born .
Jane , you arrange this .
It 's silly for Elaine to be talking when she 's dead . ''
Jane rose to the occasion .
Cloth of gold for coverlet there was none , but an old piano scarf of yellow Japanese crepe was an excellent substitute .
A white lily was not obtainable just then , but the effect of a tall blue iris placed in one of Anne 's folded hands was all that could be desired .
`` Now , she 's all ready , '' said Jane .
`` We must kiss her quiet brows and , Diana , you say , ` Sister , farewell forever , ' and Ruby , you say , ` Farewell , sweet sister , ' both of you as sorrowfully as you possibly can .
Anne , for goodness sake smile a little .
You know Elaine ` lay as though she smiled . '
That 's better .
Now push the flat off . ''
The flat was accordingly pushed off , scraping roughly over an old embedded stake in the process .
Diana and Jane and Ruby only waited long enough to see it caught in the current and headed for the bridge before scampering up through the woods , across the road , and down to the lower headland where , as Lancelot and Guinevere and the King , they were to be in readiness to receive the lily maid .
For a few minutes Anne , drifting slowly down , enjoyed the romance of her situation to the full .
Then something happened not at all romantic .
The flat began to leak .
In a very few moments it was necessary for Elaine to scramble to her feet , pick up her cloth of gold coverlet and pall of blackest samite and gaze blankly at a big crack in the bottom of her barge through which the water was literally pouring .
That sharp stake at the landing had torn off the strip of batting nailed on the flat .
Anne did not know this , but it did not take her long to realize that she was in a dangerous plight .
At this rate the flat would fill and sink long before it could drift to the lower headland .
Where were the oars ?
Left behind at the landing !
Anne gave one gasping little scream which nobody ever heard ; she was white to the lips , but she did not lose her self-possession .
There was one chance -- just one .
`` I was horribly frightened , '' she told Mrs. Allan the next day , `` and it seemed like years while the flat was drifting down to the bridge and the water rising in it every moment .
I prayed , Mrs. Allan , most earnestly , but I did n't shut my eyes to pray , for I knew the only way God could save me was to let the flat float close enough to one of the bridge piles for me to climb up on it .
You know the piles are just old tree trunks and there are lots of knots and old branch stubs on them .
It was proper to pray , but I had to do my part by watching out and right well I knew it .
I just said , ` Dear God , please take the flat close to a pile and I 'll do the rest , ' over and over again .
Under such circumstances you do n't think much about making a flowery prayer .
But mine was answered , for the flat bumped right into a pile for a minute and I flung the scarf and the shawl over my shoulder and scrambled up on a big providential stub .
And there I was , Mrs. Allan , clinging to that slippery old pile with no way of getting up or down .
It was a very unromantic position , but I did n't think about that at the time .
You do n't think much about romance when you have just escaped from a watery grave .
I said a grateful prayer at once and then I gave all my attention to holding on tight , for I knew I should probably have to depend on human aid to get back to dry land . ''
The flat drifted under the bridge and then promptly sank in midstream .
Ruby , Jane , and Diana , already awaiting it on the lower headland , saw it disappear before their very eyes and had not a doubt but that Anne had gone down with it .
For a moment they stood still , white as sheets , frozen with horror at the tragedy ; then , shrieking at the tops of their voices , they started on a frantic run up through the woods , never pausing as they crossed the main road to glance the way of the bridge .
Anne , clinging desperately to her precarious foothold , saw their flying forms and heard their shrieks .
Help would soon come , but meanwhile her position was a very uncomfortable one .
The minutes passed by , each seeming an hour to the unfortunate lily maid .
Why did n't somebody come ?
Where had the girls gone ?
Suppose they had fainted , one and all !
Suppose nobody ever came !
Suppose she grew so tired and cramped that she could hold on no longer !
Anne looked at the wicked green depths below her , wavering with long , oily shadows , and shivered .
Her imagination began to suggest all manner of gruesome possibilities to her .
Then , just as she thought she really could not endure the ache in her arms and wrists another moment , Gilbert Blythe came rowing under the bridge in Harmon Andrews 's dory !
Gilbert glanced up and , much to his amazement , beheld a little white scornful face looking down upon him with big , frightened but also scornful gray eyes .
`` Anne Shirley !
How on earth did you get there ? ''
he exclaimed .
Without waiting for an answer he pulled close to the pile and extended his hand .
There was no help for it ; Anne , clinging to Gilbert Blythe 's hand , scrambled down into the dory , where she sat , drabbled and furious , in the stern with her arms full of dripping shawl and wet crepe .
It was certainly extremely difficult to be dignified under the circumstances !
`` What has happened , Anne ? ''
asked Gilbert , taking up his oars .
`` We were playing Elaine '' explained Anne frigidly , without even looking at her rescuer , `` and I had to drift down to Camelot in the barge -- I mean the flat .
The flat began to leak and I climbed out on the pile .
The girls went for help .
Will you be kind enough to row me to the landing ? ''
Gilbert obligingly rowed to the landing and Anne , disdaining assistance , sprang nimbly on shore .
`` I 'm very much obliged to you , '' she said haughtily as she turned away .
But Gilbert had also sprung from the boat and now laid a detaining hand on her arm .
`` Anne , '' he said hurriedly , `` look here .
Ca n't we be good friends ?
I 'm awfully sorry I made fun of your hair that time .
I did n't mean to vex you and I only meant it for a joke .
Besides , it 's so long ago .
I think your hair is awfully pretty now -- honest I do .
Let 's be friends . ''
For a moment Anne hesitated .
She had an odd , newly awakened consciousness under all her outraged dignity that the half-shy , half-eager expression in Gilbert 's hazel eyes was something that was very good to see .
Her heart gave a quick , queer little beat .
But the bitterness of her old grievance promptly stiffened up her wavering determination .
That scene of two years before flashed back into her recollection as vividly as if it had taken place yesterday .
Gilbert had called her `` carrots '' and had brought about her disgrace before the whole school .
Her resentment , which to other and older people might be as laughable as its cause , was in no whit allayed and softened by time seemingly .
She hated Gilbert Blythe !
She would never forgive him !
`` No , '' she said coldly , `` I shall never be friends with you , Gilbert Blythe ; and I do n't want to be ! ''
`` All right ! ''
Gilbert sprang into his skiff with an angry color in his cheeks .
`` I 'll never ask you to be friends again , Anne Shirley .
And I do n't care either ! ''
He pulled away with swift defiant strokes , and Anne went up the steep , ferny little path under the maples .
She held her head very high , but she was conscious of an odd feeling of regret .
She almost wished she had answered Gilbert differently .
Of course , he had insulted her terribly , but still -- !
Altogether , Anne rather thought it would be a relief to sit down and have a good cry .
She was really quite unstrung , for the reaction from her fright and cramped clinging was making itself felt .
Halfway up the path she met Jane and Diana rushing back to the pond in a state narrowly removed from positive frenzy .
They had found nobody at Orchard Slope , both Mr. and Mrs. Barry being away .
Here Ruby Gillis had succumbed to hysterics , and was left to recover from them as best she might , while Jane and Diana flew through the Haunted Wood and across the brook to Green Gables .
There they had found nobody either , for Marilla had gone to Carmody and Matthew was making hay in the back field .
`` Oh , Anne , '' gasped Diana , fairly falling on the former 's neck and weeping with relief and delight , `` oh , Anne -- we thought -- you were -- drowned -- and we felt like murderers -- because we had made -- you be -- Elaine .
And Ruby is in hysterics -- oh , Anne , how did you escape ? ''
`` I climbed up on one of the piles , '' explained Anne wearily , `` and Gilbert Blythe came along in Mr. Andrews 's dory and brought me to land . ''
`` Oh , Anne , how splendid of him !
Why , it 's so romantic ! ''
said Jane , finding breath enough for utterance at last .
`` Of course you 'll speak to him after this . ''
`` Of course I wo n't , '' flashed Anne , with a momentary return of her old spirit .
`` And I do n't want ever to hear the word ` romantic ' again , Jane Andrews .
I 'm awfully sorry you were so frightened , girls .
It is all my fault .
I feel sure I was born under an unlucky star .
Everything I do gets me or my dearest friends into a scrape .
We 've gone and lost your father 's flat , Diana , and I have a presentiment that we 'll not be allowed to row on the pond any more . ''
Anne 's presentiment proved more trustworthy than presentiments are apt to do .
Great was the consternation in the Barry and Cuthbert households when the events of the afternoon became known .
`` Will you ever have any sense , Anne ? ''
groaned Marilla .
`` Oh , yes , I think I will , Marilla , '' returned Anne optimistically .
A good cry , indulged in the grateful solitude of the east gable , had soothed her nerves and restored her to her wonted cheerfulness .
`` I think my prospects of becoming sensible are brighter now than ever . ''
`` I do n't see how , '' said Marilla .
`` Well , '' explained Anne , `` I 've learned a new and valuable lesson today .
Ever since I came to Green Gables I 've been making mistakes , and each mistake has helped to cure me of some great shortcoming .
The affair of the amethyst brooch cured me of meddling with things that did n't belong to me .
The Haunted Wood mistake cured me of letting my imagination run away with me .
The liniment cake mistake cured me of carelessness in cooking .
Dyeing my hair cured me of vanity .
I never think about my hair and nose now -- at least , very seldom .
And today 's mistake is going to cure me of being too romantic .
I have come to the conclusion that it is no use trying to be romantic in Avonlea .
It was probably easy enough in towered Camelot hundreds of years ago , but romance is not appreciated now .
I feel quite sure that you will soon see a great improvement in me in this respect , Marilla . ''
`` I 'm sure I hope so , '' said Marilla skeptically .
But Matthew , who had been sitting mutely in his corner , laid a hand on Anne 's shoulder when Marilla had gone out .
`` Do n't give up all your romance , Anne , '' he whispered shyly , `` a little of it is a good thing -- not too much , of course -- but keep a little of it , Anne , keep a little of it . ''
CHAPTER XXIX .
An Epoch in Anne 's Life Anne was bringing the cows home from the back pasture by way of Lover 's Lane .
It was a September evening and all the gaps and clearings in the woods were brimmed up with ruby sunset light .
Here and there the lane was splashed with it , but for the most part it was already quite shadowy beneath the maples , and the spaces under the firs were filled with a clear violet dusk like airy wine .
The winds were out in their tops , and there is no sweeter music on earth than that which the wind makes in the fir trees at evening .
The cows swung placidly down the lane , and Anne followed them dreamily , repeating aloud the battle canto from MARMION -- which had also been part of their English course the preceding winter and which Miss Stacy had made them learn off by heart -- and exulting in its rushing lines and the clash of spears in its imagery .
When she came to the lines The stubborn spearsmen still made good Their dark impenetrable wood , she stopped in ecstasy to shut her eyes that she might the better fancy herself one of that heroic ring .
When she opened them again it was to behold Diana coming through the gate that led into the Barry field and looking so important that Anne instantly divined there was news to be told .
But betray too eager curiosity she would not .
`` Is n't this evening just like a purple dream , Diana ?
It makes me so glad to be alive .
In the mornings I always think the mornings are best ; but when evening comes I think it 's lovelier still . ''
`` It 's a very fine evening , '' said Diana , `` but oh , I have such news , Anne .
Guess .
You can have three guesses . ''
`` Charlotte Gillis is going to be married in the church after all and Mrs. Allan wants us to decorate it , '' cried Anne .
`` No .
Charlotte 's beau wo n't agree to that , because nobody ever has been married in the church yet , and he thinks it would seem too much like a funeral .
It 's too mean , because it would be such fun .
Guess again . ''
`` Jane 's mother is going to let her have a birthday party ? ''
Diana shook her head , her black eyes dancing with merriment .
`` I ca n't think what it can be , '' said Anne in despair , `` unless it 's that Moody Spurgeon MacPherson saw you home from prayer meeting last night .
Did he ? ''
`` I should think not , '' exclaimed Diana indignantly .
`` I would n't be likely to boast of it if he did , the horrid creature !
I knew you could n't guess it .
Mother had a letter from Aunt Josephine today , and Aunt Josephine wants you and me to go to town next Tuesday and stop with her for the Exhibition .
There ! ''
`` Oh , Diana , '' whispered Anne , finding it necessary to lean up against a maple tree for support , `` do you really mean it ?
But I 'm afraid Marilla wo n't let me go .
She will say that she ca n't encourage gadding about .
That was what she said last week when Jane invited me to go with them in their double-seated buggy to the American concert at the White Sands Hotel .
I wanted to go , but Marilla said I 'd be better at home learning my lessons and so would Jane .
I was bitterly disappointed , Diana .
I felt so heartbroken that I would n't say my prayers when I went to bed .
But I repented of that and got up in the middle of the night and said them . ''
`` I 'll tell you , '' said Diana , `` we 'll get Mother to ask Marilla .
She 'll be more likely to let you go then ; and if she does we 'll have the time of our lives , Anne .
I 've never been to an Exhibition , and it 's so aggravating to hear the other girls talking about their trips .
Jane and Ruby have been twice , and they 're going this year again . ''
`` I 'm not going to think about it at all until I know whether I can go or not , '' said Anne resolutely .
`` If I did and then was disappointed , it would be more than I could bear .
But in case I do go I 'm very glad my new coat will be ready by that time .
Marilla did n't think I needed a new coat .
She said my old one would do very well for another winter and that I ought to be satisfied with having a new dress .
The dress is very pretty , Diana -- navy blue and made so fashionably .
Marilla always makes my dresses fashionably now , because she says she does n't intend to have Matthew going to Mrs. Lynde to make them .
I 'm so glad .
It is ever so much easier to be good if your clothes are fashionable .
At least , it is easier for me .
I suppose it does n't make such a difference to naturally good people .
But Matthew said I must have a new coat , so Marilla bought a lovely piece of blue broadcloth , and it 's being made by a real dressmaker over at Carmody .
It 's to be done Saturday night , and I 'm trying not to imagine myself walking up the church aisle on Sunday in my new suit and cap , because I 'm afraid it is n't right to imagine such things .
But it just slips into my mind in spite of me .
My cap is so pretty .
Matthew bought it for me the day we were over at Carmody .
It is one of those little blue velvet ones that are all the rage , with gold cord and tassels .
Your new hat is elegant , Diana , and so becoming .
When I saw you come into church last Sunday my heart swelled with pride to think you were my dearest friend .
Do you suppose it 's wrong for us to think so much about our clothes ?
Marilla says it is very sinful .
But it is such an interesting subject , is n't it ? ''
Marilla agreed to let Anne go to town , and it was arranged that Mr. Barry should take the girls in on the following Tuesday .
As Charlottetown was thirty miles away and Mr. Barry wished to go and return the same day , it was necessary to make a very early start .
But Anne counted it all joy , and was up before sunrise on Tuesday morning .
A glance from her window assured her that the day would be fine , for the eastern sky behind the firs of the Haunted Wood was all silvery and cloudless .
Through the gap in the trees a light was shining in the western gable of Orchard Slope , a token that Diana was also up .
Anne was dressed by the time Matthew had the fire on and had the breakfast ready when Marilla came down , but for her own part was much too excited to eat .
After breakfast the jaunty new cap and jacket were donned , and Anne hastened over the brook and up through the firs to Orchard Slope .
Mr. Barry and Diana were waiting for her , and they were soon on the road .
It was a long drive , but Anne and Diana enjoyed every minute of it .
It was delightful to rattle along over the moist roads in the early red sunlight that was creeping across the shorn harvest fields .
The air was fresh and crisp , and little smoke-blue mists curled through the valleys and floated off from the hills .
Sometimes the road went through woods where maples were beginning to hang out scarlet banners ; sometimes it crossed rivers on bridges that made Anne 's flesh cringe with the old , half-delightful fear ; sometimes it wound along a harbor shore and passed by a little cluster of weather-gray fishing huts ; again it mounted to hills whence a far sweep of curving upland or misty-blue sky could be seen ; but wherever it went there was much of interest to discuss .
It was almost noon when they reached town and found their way to `` Beechwood . ''
It was quite a fine old mansion , set back from the street in a seclusion of green elms and branching beeches .
Miss Barry met them at the door with a twinkle in her sharp black eyes .
`` So you 've come to see me at last , you Anne-girl , '' she said .
`` Mercy , child , how you have grown !
You 're taller than I am , I declare .
And you 're ever so much better looking than you used to be , too .
But I dare say you know that without being told . ''
`` Indeed I did n't , '' said Anne radiantly .
`` I know I 'm not so freckled as I used to be , so I 've much to be thankful for , but I really had n't dared to hope there was any other improvement .
I 'm so glad you think there is , Miss Barry . ''
Miss Barry 's house was furnished with `` great magnificence , '' as Anne told Marilla afterward .
The two little country girls were rather abashed by the splendor of the parlor where Miss Barry left them when she went to see about dinner .
`` Is n't it just like a palace ? ''
whispered Diana .
`` I never was in Aunt Josephine 's house before , and I 'd no idea it was so grand .
I just wish Julia Bell could see this -- she puts on such airs about her mother 's parlor . ''
`` Velvet carpet , '' sighed Anne luxuriously , `` and silk curtains !
I 've dreamed of such things , Diana .
But do you know I do n't believe I feel very comfortable with them after all .
There are so many things in this room and all so splendid that there is no scope for imagination .
That is one consolation when you are poor -- there are so many more things you can imagine about . ''
Their sojourn in town was something that Anne and Diana dated from for years .
From first to last it was crowded with delights .
On Wednesday Miss Barry took them to the Exhibition grounds and kept them there all day .
`` It was splendid , '' Anne related to Marilla later on .
`` I never imagined anything so interesting .
I do n't really know which department was the most interesting .
I think I liked the horses and the flowers and the fancywork best .
Josie Pye took first prize for knitted lace .
I was real glad she did .
And I was glad that I felt glad , for it shows I 'm improving , do n't you think , Marilla , when I can rejoice in Josie 's success ?
Mr. Harmon Andrews took second prize for Gravenstein apples and Mr. Bell took first prize for a pig .
Diana said she thought it was ridiculous for a Sunday-school superintendent to take a prize in pigs , but I do n't see why .
Do you ?
She said she would always think of it after this when he was praying so solemnly .
Clara Louise MacPherson took a prize for painting , and Mrs. Lynde got first prize for homemade butter and cheese .
So Avonlea was pretty well represented , was n't it ?
Mrs. Lynde was there that day , and I never knew how much I really liked her until I saw her familiar face among all those strangers .
There were thousands of people there , Marilla .
It made me feel dreadfully insignificant .
And Miss Barry took us up to the grandstand to see the horse races .
Mrs. Lynde would n't go ; she said horse racing was an abomination and , she being a church member , thought it her bounden duty to set a good example by staying away .
But there were so many there I do n't believe Mrs. Lynde 's absence would ever be noticed .
I do n't think , though , that I ought to go very often to horse races , because they ARE awfully fascinating .
Diana got so excited that she offered to bet me ten cents that the red horse would win .
I did n't believe he would , but I refused to bet , because I wanted to tell Mrs. Allan all about everything , and I felt sure it would n't do to tell her that .
It 's always wrong to do anything you ca n't tell the minister 's wife .
It 's as good as an extra conscience to have a minister 's wife for your friend .
And I was very glad I did n't bet , because the red horse DID win , and I would have lost ten cents .
So you see that virtue was its own reward .
We saw a man go up in a balloon .
I 'd love to go up in a balloon , Marilla ; it would be simply thrilling ; and we saw a man selling fortunes .
You paid him ten cents and a little bird picked out your fortune for you .
Miss Barry gave Diana and me ten cents each to have our fortunes told .
Mine was that I would marry a dark-complected man who was very wealthy , and I would go across water to live .
I looked carefully at all the dark men I saw after that , but I did n't care much for any of them , and anyhow I suppose it 's too early to be looking out for him yet .
Oh , it was a never-to-be-forgotten day , Marilla .
I was so tired I could n't sleep at night .
Miss Barry put us in the spare room , according to promise .
It was an elegant room , Marilla , but somehow sleeping in a spare room is n't what I used to think it was .
That 's the worst of growing up , and I 'm beginning to realize it .
The things you wanted so much when you were a child do n't seem half so wonderful to you when you get them . ''
Thursday the girls had a drive in the park , and in the evening Miss Barry took them to a concert in the Academy of Music , where a noted prima donna was to sing .
To Anne the evening was a glittering vision of delight .
`` Oh , Marilla , it was beyond description .
I was so excited I could n't even talk , so you may know what it was like .
I just sat in enraptured silence .
Madame Selitsky was perfectly beautiful , and wore white satin and diamonds .
But when she began to sing I never thought about anything else .
Oh , I ca n't tell you how I felt .
But it seemed to me that it could never be hard to be good any more .
I felt like I do when I look up to the stars .
Tears came into my eyes , but , oh , they were such happy tears .
I was so sorry when it was all over , and I told Miss Barry I did n't see how I was ever to return to common life again .
She said she thought if we went over to the restaurant across the street and had an ice cream it might help me .
That sounded so prosaic ; but to my surprise I found it true .
The ice cream was delicious , Marilla , and it was so lovely and dissipated to be sitting there eating it at eleven o'clock at night .
Diana said she believed she was born for city life .
Miss Barry asked me what my opinion was , but I said I would have to think it over very seriously before I could tell her what I really thought .
So I thought it over after I went to bed .
That is the best time to think things out .
And I came to the conclusion , Marilla , that I was n't born for city life and that I was glad of it .
It 's nice to be eating ice cream at brilliant restaurants at eleven o'clock at night once in a while ; but as a regular thing I 'd rather be in the east gable at eleven , sound asleep , but kind of knowing even in my sleep that the stars were shining outside and that the wind was blowing in the firs across the brook .
I told Miss Barry so at breakfast the next morning and she laughed .
Miss Barry generally laughed at anything I said , even when I said the most solemn things .
I do n't think I liked it , Marilla , because I was n't trying to be funny .
But she is a most hospitable lady and treated us royally . ''
Friday brought going-home time , and Mr. Barry drove in for the girls .
`` Well , I hope you 've enjoyed yourselves , '' said Miss Barry , as she bade them good-bye .
`` Indeed we have , '' said Diana .
`` And you , Anne-girl ? ''
`` I 've enjoyed every minute of the time , '' said Anne , throwing her arms impulsively about the old woman 's neck and kissing her wrinkled cheek .
Diana would never have dared to do such a thing and felt rather aghast at Anne 's freedom .
But Miss Barry was pleased , and she stood on her veranda and watched the buggy out of sight .
Then she went back into her big house with a sigh .
It seemed very lonely , lacking those fresh young lives .
Miss Barry was a rather selfish old lady , if the truth must be told , and had never cared much for anybody but herself .
She valued people only as they were of service to her or amused her .
Anne had amused her , and consequently stood high in the old lady 's good graces .
But Miss Barry found herself thinking less about Anne 's quaint speeches than of her fresh enthusiasms , her transparent emotions , her little winning ways , and the sweetness of her eyes and lips .
`` I thought Marilla Cuthbert was an old fool when I heard she 'd adopted a girl out of an orphan asylum , '' she said to herself , `` but I guess she did n't make much of a mistake after all .
If I 'd a child like Anne in the house all the time I 'd be a better and happier woman . ''
Anne and Diana found the drive home as pleasant as the drive in -- pleasanter , indeed , since there was the delightful consciousness of home waiting at the end of it .
It was sunset when they passed through White Sands and turned into the shore road .
Beyond , the Avonlea hills came out darkly against the saffron sky .
Behind them the moon was rising out of the sea that grew all radiant and transfigured in her light .
Every little cove along the curving road was a marvel of dancing ripples .
The waves broke with a soft swish on the rocks below them , and the tang of the sea was in the strong , fresh air .
`` Oh , but it 's good to be alive and to be going home , '' breathed Anne .
When she crossed the log bridge over the brook the kitchen light of Green Gables winked her a friendly welcome back , and through the open door shone the hearth fire , sending out its warm red glow athwart the chilly autumn night .
Anne ran blithely up the hill and into the kitchen , where a hot supper was waiting on the table .
`` So you 've got back ? ''
said Marilla , folding up her knitting .
`` Yes , and oh , it 's so good to be back , '' said Anne joyously .
`` I could kiss everything , even to the clock .
Marilla , a broiled chicken !
You do n't mean to say you cooked that for me ! ''
`` Yes , I did , '' said Marilla .
`` I thought you 'd be hungry after such a drive and need something real appetizing .
Hurry and take off your things , and we 'll have supper as soon as Matthew comes in .
I 'm glad you 've got back , I must say .
It 's been fearful lonesome here without you , and I never put in four longer days . ''
After supper Anne sat before the fire between Matthew and Marilla , and gave them a full account of her visit .
`` I 've had a splendid time , '' she concluded happily , `` and I feel that it marks an epoch in my life .
But the best of it all was the coming home . ''
CHAPTER XXX .
The Queens Class Is Organized Marilla laid her knitting on her lap and leaned back in her chair .
Her eyes were tired , and she thought vaguely that she must see about having her glasses changed the next time she went to town , for her eyes had grown tired very often of late .
It was nearly dark , for the full November twilight had fallen around Green Gables , and the only light in the kitchen came from the dancing red flames in the stove .
Anne was curled up Turk-fashion on the hearthrug , gazing into that joyous glow where the sunshine of a hundred summers was being distilled from the maple cordwood .
She had been reading , but her book had slipped to the floor , and now she was dreaming , with a smile on her parted lips .
Glittering castles in Spain were shaping themselves out of the mists and rainbows of her lively fancy ; adventures wonderful and enthralling were happening to her in cloudland -- adventures that always turned out triumphantly and never involved her in scrapes like those of actual life .
Marilla looked at her with a tenderness that would never have been suffered to reveal itself in any clearer light than that soft mingling of fireshine and shadow .
The lesson of a love that should display itself easily in spoken word and open look was one Marilla could never learn .
But she had learned to love this slim , gray-eyed girl with an affection all the deeper and stronger from its very undemonstrativeness .
Her love made her afraid of being unduly indulgent , indeed .
She had an uneasy feeling that it was rather sinful to set one 's heart so intensely on any human creature as she had set hers on Anne , and perhaps she performed a sort of unconscious penance for this by being stricter and more critical than if the girl had been less dear to her .
Certainly Anne herself had no idea how Marilla loved her .
She sometimes thought wistfully that Marilla was very hard to please and distinctly lacking in sympathy and understanding .
But she always checked the thought reproachfully , remembering what she owed to Marilla .
`` Anne , '' said Marilla abruptly , `` Miss Stacy was here this afternoon when you were out with Diana . ''
Anne came back from her other world with a start and a sigh .
`` Was she ?
Oh , I 'm so sorry I was n't in .
Why did n't you call me , Marilla ?
Diana and I were only over in the Haunted Wood .
It 's lovely in the woods now .
All the little wood things -- the ferns and the satin leaves and the crackerberries -- have gone to sleep , just as if somebody had tucked them away until spring under a blanket of leaves .
I think it was a little gray fairy with a rainbow scarf that came tiptoeing along the last moonlight night and did it .
Diana would n't say much about that , though .
Diana has never forgotten the scolding her mother gave her about imagining ghosts into the Haunted Wood .
It had a very bad effect on Diana 's imagination .
It blighted it .
Mrs. Lynde says Myrtle Bell is a blighted being .
I asked Ruby Gillis why Myrtle was blighted , and Ruby said she guessed it was because her young man had gone back on her .
Ruby Gillis thinks of nothing but young men , and the older she gets the worse she is .
Young men are all very well in their place , but it does n't do to drag them into everything , does it ?
Diana and I are thinking seriously of promising each other that we will never marry but be nice old maids and live together forever .
Diana has n't quite made up her mind though , because she thinks perhaps it would be nobler to marry some wild , dashing , wicked young man and reform him .
Diana and I talk a great deal about serious subjects now , you know .
We feel that we are so much older than we used to be that it is n't becoming to talk of childish matters .
It 's such a solemn thing to be almost fourteen , Marilla .
Miss Stacy took all us girls who are in our teens down to the brook last Wednesday , and talked to us about it .
She said we could n't be too careful what habits we formed and what ideals we acquired in our teens , because by the time we were twenty our characters would be developed and the foundation laid for our whole future life .
And she said if the foundation was shaky we could never build anything really worth while on it .
Diana and I talked the matter over coming home from school .
We felt extremely solemn , Marilla .
And we decided that we would try to be very careful indeed and form respectable habits and learn all we could and be as sensible as possible , so that by the time we were twenty our characters would be properly developed .
It 's perfectly appalling to think of being twenty , Marilla .
It sounds so fearfully old and grown up .
But why was Miss Stacy here this afternoon ? ''
`` That is what I want to tell you , Anne , if you 'll ever give me a chance to get a word in edgewise .
She was talking about you . ''
`` About me ? ''
Anne looked rather scared .
Then she flushed and exclaimed : `` Oh , I know what she was saying .
I meant to tell you , Marilla , honestly I did , but I forgot .
Miss Stacy caught me reading Ben Hur in school yesterday afternoon when I should have been studying my Canadian history .
Jane Andrews lent it to me .
I was reading it at dinner hour , and I had just got to the chariot race when school went in .
I was simply wild to know how it turned out -- although I felt sure Ben Hur must win , because it would n't be poetical justice if he did n't -- so I spread the history open on my desk lid and then tucked Ben Hur between the desk and my knee .
I just looked as if I were studying Canadian history , you know , while all the while I was reveling in Ben Hur .
I was so interested in it that I never noticed Miss Stacy coming down the aisle until all at once I just looked up and there she was looking down at me , so reproachful-like .
I ca n't tell you how ashamed I felt , Marilla , especially when I heard Josie Pye giggling .
Miss Stacy took Ben Hur away , but she never said a word then .
She kept me in at recess and talked to me .
She said I had done very wrong in two respects .
First , I was wasting the time I ought to have put on my studies ; and secondly , I was deceiving my teacher in trying to make it appear I was reading a history when it was a storybook instead .
I had never realized until that moment , Marilla , that what I was doing was deceitful .
I was shocked .
I cried bitterly , and asked Miss Stacy to forgive me and I 'd never do such a thing again ; and I offered to do penance by never so much as looking at Ben Hur for a whole week , not even to see how the chariot race turned out .
But Miss Stacy said she would n't require that , and she forgave me freely .
So I think it was n't very kind of her to come up here to you about it after all . ''
`` Miss Stacy never mentioned such a thing to me , Anne , and its only your guilty conscience that 's the matter with you .
You have no business to be taking storybooks to school .
You read too many novels anyhow .
When I was a girl I was n't so much as allowed to look at a novel . ''
`` Oh , how can you call Ben Hur a novel when it 's really such a religious book ? ''
protested Anne .
`` Of course it 's a little too exciting to be proper reading for Sunday , and I only read it on weekdays .
And I never read ANY book now unless either Miss Stacy or Mrs. Allan thinks it is a proper book for a girl thirteen and three-quarters to read .
Miss Stacy made me promise that .
She found me reading a book one day called , The Lurid Mystery of the Haunted Hall .
It was one Ruby Gillis had lent me , and , oh , Marilla , it was so fascinating and creepy .
It just curdled the blood in my veins .
But Miss Stacy said it was a very silly , unwholesome book , and she asked me not to read any more of it or any like it .
I did n't mind promising not to read any more like it , but it was AGONIZING to give back that book without knowing how it turned out .
But my love for Miss Stacy stood the test and I did .
It 's really wonderful , Marilla , what you can do when you 're truly anxious to please a certain person . ''
`` Well , I guess I 'll light the lamp and get to work , '' said Marilla .
`` I see plainly that you do n't want to hear what Miss Stacy had to say .
You 're more interested in the sound of your own tongue than in anything else . ''
`` Oh , indeed , Marilla , I do want to hear it , '' cried Anne contritely .
`` I wo n't say another word -- not one .
I know I talk too much , but I am really trying to overcome it , and although I say far too much , yet if you only knew how many things I want to say and do n't , you 'd give me some credit for it .
Please tell me , Marilla . ''
`` Well , Miss Stacy wants to organize a class among her advanced students who mean to study for the entrance examination into Queen 's .
She intends to give them extra lessons for an hour after school .
And she came to ask Matthew and me if we would like to have you join it .
What do you think about it yourself , Anne ?
Would you like to go to Queen 's and pass for a teacher ? ''
`` Oh , Marilla ! ''
Anne straightened to her knees and clasped her hands .
`` It 's been the dream of my life -- that is , for the last six months , ever since Ruby and Jane began to talk of studying for the Entrance .
But I did n't say anything about it , because I supposed it would be perfectly useless .
I 'd love to be a teacher .
But wo n't it be dreadfully expensive ?
Mr. Andrews says it cost him one hundred and fifty dollars to put Prissy through , and Prissy was n't a dunce in geometry . ''
`` I guess you need n't worry about that part of it .
When Matthew and I took you to bring up we resolved we would do the best we could for you and give you a good education .
I believe in a girl being fitted to earn her own living whether she ever has to or not .
You 'll always have a home at Green Gables as long as Matthew and I are here , but nobody knows what is going to happen in this uncertain world , and it 's just as well to be prepared .
So you can join the Queen 's class if you like , Anne . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , thank you . ''
Anne flung her arms about Marilla 's waist and looked up earnestly into her face .
`` I 'm extremely grateful to you and Matthew .
And I 'll study as hard as I can and do my very best to be a credit to you .
I warn you not to expect much in geometry , but I think I can hold my own in anything else if I work hard . ''
`` I dare say you 'll get along well enough .
Miss Stacy says you are bright and diligent . ''
Not for worlds would Marilla have told Anne just what Miss Stacy had said about her ; that would have been to pamper vanity .
`` You need n't rush to any extreme of killing yourself over your books .
There is no hurry .
You wo n't be ready to try the Entrance for a year and a half yet .
But it 's well to begin in time and be thoroughly grounded , Miss Stacy says . ''
`` I shall take more interest than ever in my studies now , '' said Anne blissfully , `` because I have a purpose in life .
Mr. Allan says everybody should have a purpose in life and pursue it faithfully .
Only he says we must first make sure that it is a worthy purpose .
I would call it a worthy purpose to want to be a teacher like Miss Stacy , would n't you , Marilla ?
I think it 's a very noble profession . ''
The Queen 's class was organized in due time .
Gilbert Blythe , Anne Shirley , Ruby Gillis , Jane Andrews , Josie Pye , Charlie Sloane , and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson joined it .
Diana Barry did not , as her parents did not intend to send her to Queen 's .
This seemed nothing short of a calamity to Anne .
Never , since the night on which Minnie May had had the croup , had she and Diana been separated in anything .
On the evening when the Queen 's class first remained in school for the extra lessons and Anne saw Diana go slowly out with the others , to walk home alone through the Birch Path and Violet Vale , it was all the former could do to keep her seat and refrain from rushing impulsively after her chum .
A lump came into her throat , and she hastily retired behind the pages of her uplifted Latin grammar to hide the tears in her eyes .
Not for worlds would Anne have had Gilbert Blythe or Josie Pye see those tears .
`` But , oh , Marilla , I really felt that I had tasted the bitterness of death , as Mr. Allan said in his sermon last Sunday , when I saw Diana go out alone , '' she said mournfully that night .
`` I thought how splendid it would have been if Diana had only been going to study for the Entrance , too .
But we ca n't have things perfect in this imperfect world , as Mrs. Lynde says .
Mrs. Lynde is n't exactly a comforting person sometimes , but there 's no doubt she says a great many very true things .
And I think the Queen 's class is going to be extremely interesting .
Jane and Ruby are just going to study to be teachers .
That is the height of their ambition .
Ruby says she will only teach for two years after she gets through , and then she intends to be married .
Jane says she will devote her whole life to teaching , and never , never marry , because you are paid a salary for teaching , but a husband wo n't pay you anything , and growls if you ask for a share in the egg and butter money .
I expect Jane speaks from mournful experience , for Mrs. Lynde says that her father is a perfect old crank , and meaner than second skimmings .
Josie Pye says she is just going to college for education 's sake , because she wo n't have to earn her own living ; she says of course it is different with orphans who are living on charity -- THEY have to hustle .
Moody Spurgeon is going to be a minister .
Mrs. Lynde says he could n't be anything else with a name like that to live up to .
I hope it is n't wicked of me , Marilla , but really the thought of Moody Spurgeon being a minister makes me laugh .
He 's such a funny-looking boy with that big fat face , and his little blue eyes , and his ears sticking out like flaps .
But perhaps he will be more intellectual looking when he grows up .
Charlie Sloane says he 's going to go into politics and be a member of Parliament , but Mrs. Lynde says he 'll never succeed at that , because the Sloanes are all honest people , and it 's only rascals that get on in politics nowadays . ''
`` What is Gilbert Blythe going to be ? ''
queried Marilla , seeing that Anne was opening her Caesar .
`` I do n't happen to know what Gilbert Blythe 's ambition in life is -- if he has any , '' said Anne scornfully .
There was open rivalry between Gilbert and Anne now .
Previously the rivalry had been rather onesided , but there was no longer any doubt that Gilbert was as determined to be first in class as Anne was .
He was a foeman worthy of her steel .
The other members of the class tacitly acknowledged their superiority , and never dreamed of trying to compete with them .
Since the day by the pond when she had refused to listen to his plea for forgiveness , Gilbert , save for the aforesaid determined rivalry , had evinced no recognition whatever of the existence of Anne Shirley .
He talked and jested with the other girls , exchanged books and puzzles with them , discussed lessons and plans , sometimes walked home with one or the other of them from prayer meeting or Debating Club .
But Anne Shirley he simply ignored , and Anne found out that it is not pleasant to be ignored .
It was in vain that she told herself with a toss of her head that she did not care .
Deep down in her wayward , feminine little heart she knew that she did care , and that if she had that chance of the Lake of Shining Waters again she would answer very differently .
All at once , as it seemed , and to her secret dismay , she found that the old resentment she had cherished against him was gone -- gone just when she most needed its sustaining power .
It was in vain that she recalled every incident and emotion of that memorable occasion and tried to feel the old satisfying anger .
That day by the pond had witnessed its last spasmodic flicker .
Anne realized that she had forgiven and forgotten without knowing it .
But it was too late .
And at least neither Gilbert nor anybody else , not even Diana , should ever suspect how sorry she was and how much she wished she had n't been so proud and horrid !
She determined to `` shroud her feelings in deepest oblivion , '' and it may be stated here and now that she did it , so successfully that Gilbert , who possibly was not quite so indifferent as he seemed , could not console himself with any belief that Anne felt his retaliatory scorn .
The only poor comfort he had was that she snubbed Charlie Sloane , unmercifully , continually , and undeservedly .
Otherwise the winter passed away in a round of pleasant duties and studies .
For Anne the days slipped by like golden beads on the necklace of the year .
She was happy , eager , interested ; there were lessons to be learned and honor to be won ; delightful books to read ; new pieces to be practiced for the Sunday-school choir ; pleasant Saturday afternoons at the manse with Mrs. Allan ; and then , almost before Anne realized it , spring had come again to Green Gables and all the world was abloom once more .
Studies palled just a wee bit then ; the Queen 's class , left behind in school while the others scattered to green lanes and leafy wood cuts and meadow byways , looked wistfully out of the windows and discovered that Latin verbs and French exercises had somehow lost the tang and zest they had possessed in the crisp winter months .
Even Anne and Gilbert lagged and grew indifferent .
Teacher and taught were alike glad when the term was ended and the glad vacation days stretched rosily before them .
`` But you 've done good work this past year , '' Miss Stacy told them on the last evening , `` and you deserve a good , jolly vacation .
Have the best time you can in the out-of-door world and lay in a good stock of health and vitality and ambition to carry you through next year .
It will be the tug of war , you know -- the last year before the Entrance . ''
`` Are you going to be back next year , Miss Stacy ? ''
asked Josie Pye .
Josie Pye never scrupled to ask questions ; in this instance the rest of the class felt grateful to her ; none of them would have dared to ask it of Miss Stacy , but all wanted to , for there had been alarming rumors running at large through the school for some time that Miss Stacy was not coming back the next year -- that she had been offered a position in the grade school of her own home district and meant to accept .
The Queen 's class listened in breathless suspense for her answer .
`` Yes , I think I will , '' said Miss Stacy .
`` I thought of taking another school , but I have decided to come back to Avonlea .
To tell the truth , I 've grown so interested in my pupils here that I found I could n't leave them .
So I 'll stay and see you through . ''
`` Hurrah ! ''
said Moody Spurgeon .
Moody Spurgeon had never been so carried away by his feelings before , and he blushed uncomfortably every time he thought about it for a week .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad , '' said Anne , with shining eyes .
`` Dear Stacy , it would be perfectly dreadful if you did n't come back .
I do n't believe I could have the heart to go on with my studies at all if another teacher came here . ''
When Anne got home that night she stacked all her textbooks away in an old trunk in the attic , locked it , and threw the key into the blanket box .
`` I 'm not even going to look at a schoolbook in vacation , '' she told Marilla .
`` I 've studied as hard all the term as I possibly could and I 've pored over that geometry until I know every proposition in the first book off by heart , even when the letters ARE changed .
I just feel tired of everything sensible and I 'm going to let my imagination run riot for the summer .
Oh , you need n't be alarmed , Marilla .
I 'll only let it run riot within reasonable limits .
But I want to have a real good jolly time this summer , for maybe it 's the last summer I 'll be a little girl .
Mrs. Lynde says that if I keep stretching out next year as I 've done this I 'll have to put on longer skirts .
She says I 'm all running to legs and eyes .
And when I put on longer skirts I shall feel that I have to live up to them and be very dignified .
It wo n't even do to believe in fairies then , I 'm afraid ; so I 'm going to believe in them with all my whole heart this summer .
I think we 're going to have a very gay vacation .
Ruby Gillis is going to have a birthday party soon and there 's the Sunday school picnic and the missionary concert next month .
And Mr. Barry says that some evening he 'll take Diana and me over to the White Sands Hotel and have dinner there .
They have dinner there in the evening , you know .
Jane Andrews was over once last summer and she says it was a dazzling sight to see the electric lights and the flowers and all the lady guests in such beautiful dresses .
Jane says it was her first glimpse into high life and she 'll never forget it to her dying day . ''
Mrs. Lynde came up the next afternoon to find out why Marilla had not been at the Aid meeting on Thursday .
When Marilla was not at Aid meeting people knew there was something wrong at Green Gables .
`` Matthew had a bad spell with his heart Thursday , '' Marilla explained , `` and I did n't feel like leaving him .
Oh , yes , he 's all right again now , but he takes them spells oftener than he used to and I 'm anxious about him .
The doctor says he must be careful to avoid excitement .
That 's easy enough , for Matthew does n't go about looking for excitement by any means and never did , but he 's not to do any very heavy work either and you might as well tell Matthew not to breathe as not to work .
Come and lay off your things , Rachel .
You 'll stay to tea ? ''
`` Well , seeing you 're so pressing , perhaps I might as well , stay '' said Mrs. Rachel , who had not the slightest intention of doing anything else .
Mrs. Rachel and Marilla sat comfortably in the parlor while Anne got the tea and made hot biscuits that were light and white enough to defy even Mrs. Rachel 's criticism .
`` I must say Anne has turned out a real smart girl , '' admitted Mrs. Rachel , as Marilla accompanied her to the end of the lane at sunset .
`` She must be a great help to you . ''
`` She is , '' said Marilla , `` and she 's real steady and reliable now .
I used to be afraid she 'd never get over her featherbrained ways , but she has and I would n't be afraid to trust her in anything now . ''
`` I never would have thought she 'd have turned out so well that first day I was here three years ago , '' said Mrs. Rachel .
`` Lawful heart , shall I ever forget that tantrum of hers !
When I went home that night I says to Thomas , says I , ` Mark my words , Thomas , Marilla Cuthbert 'll live to rue the step she 's took . '
But I was mistaken and I 'm real glad of it .
I ai n't one of those kind of people , Marilla , as can never be brought to own up that they 've made a mistake .
No , that never was my way , thank goodness .
I did make a mistake in judging Anne , but it were n't no wonder , for an odder , unexpecteder witch of a child there never was in this world , that 's what .
There was no ciphering her out by the rules that worked with other children .
It 's nothing short of wonderful how she 's improved these three years , but especially in looks .
She 's a real pretty girl got to be , though I ca n't say I 'm overly partial to that pale , big-eyed style myself .
I like more snap and color , like Diana Barry has or Ruby Gillis .
Ruby Gillis 's looks are real showy .
But somehow -- I do n't know how it is but when Anne and them are together , though she ai n't half as handsome , she makes them look kind of common and overdone -- something like them white June lilies she calls narcissus alongside of the big , red peonies , that 's what . ''
CHAPTER XXXI .
Where the Brook and River Meet Anne had her `` good '' summer and enjoyed it wholeheartedly .
She and Diana fairly lived outdoors , reveling in all the delights that Lover 's Lane and the Dryad 's Bubble and Willowmere and Victoria Island afforded .
Marilla offered no objections to Anne 's gypsyings .
The Spencervale doctor who had come the night Minnie May had the croup met Anne at the house of a patient one afternoon early in vacation , looked her over sharply , screwed up his mouth , shook his head , and sent a message to Marilla Cuthbert by another person .
It was : `` Keep that redheaded girl of yours in the open air all summer and do n't let her read books until she gets more spring into her step . ''
This message frightened Marilla wholesomely .
She read Anne 's death warrant by consumption in it unless it was scrupulously obeyed .
As a result , Anne had the golden summer of her life as far as freedom and frolic went .
She walked , rowed , berried , and dreamed to her heart 's content ; and when September came she was bright-eyed and alert , with a step that would have satisfied the Spencervale doctor and a heart full of ambition and zest once more .
`` I feel just like studying with might and main , '' she declared as she brought her books down from the attic .
`` Oh , you good old friends , I 'm glad to see your honest faces once more -- yes , even you , geometry .
I 've had a perfectly beautiful summer , Marilla , and now I 'm rejoicing as a strong man to run a race , as Mr. Allan said last Sunday .
Does n't Mr. Allan preach magnificent sermons ?
Mrs. Lynde says he is improving every day and the first thing we know some city church will gobble him up and then we 'll be left and have to turn to and break in another green preacher .
But I do n't see the use of meeting trouble halfway , do you , Marilla ?
I think it would be better just to enjoy Mr. Allan while we have him .
If I were a man I think I 'd be a minister .
They can have such an influence for good , if their theology is sound ; and it must be thrilling to preach splendid sermons and stir your hearers ' hearts .
Why ca n't women be ministers , Marilla ?
I asked Mrs. Lynde that and she was shocked and said it would be a scandalous thing .
She said there might be female ministers in the States and she believed there was , but thank goodness we had n't got to that stage in Canada yet and she hoped we never would .
But I do n't see why .
I think women would make splendid ministers .
When there is a social to be got up or a church tea or anything else to raise money the women have to turn to and do the work .
I 'm sure Mrs. Lynde can pray every bit as well as Superintendent Bell and I 've no doubt she could preach too with a little practice . ''
`` Yes , I believe she could , '' said Marilla dryly .
`` She does plenty of unofficial preaching as it is .
Nobody has much of a chance to go wrong in Avonlea with Rachel to oversee them . ''
`` Marilla , '' said Anne in a burst of confidence , `` I want to tell you something and ask you what you think about it .
It has worried me terribly -- on Sunday afternoons , that is , when I think specially about such matters .
I do really want to be good ; and when I 'm with you or Mrs. Allan or Miss Stacy I want it more than ever and I want to do just what would please you and what you would approve of .
But mostly when I 'm with Mrs. Lynde I feel desperately wicked and as if I wanted to go and do the very thing she tells me I ought n't to do .
I feel irresistibly tempted to do it .
Now , what do you think is the reason I feel like that ?
Do you think it 's because I 'm really bad and unregenerate ? ''
Marilla looked dubious for a moment .
Then she laughed .
`` If you are I guess I am too , Anne , for Rachel often has that very effect on me .
I sometimes think she 'd have more of an influence for good , as you say yourself , if she did n't keep nagging people to do right .
There should have been a special commandment against nagging .
But there , I should n't talk so .
Rachel is a good Christian woman and she means well .
There is n't a kinder soul in Avonlea and she never shirks her share of work . ''
`` I 'm very glad you feel the same , '' said Anne decidedly .
`` It 's so encouraging .
I sha n't worry so much over that after this .
But I dare say there 'll be other things to worry me .
They keep coming up new all the time -- things to perplex you , you know .
You settle one question and there 's another right after .
There are so many things to be thought over and decided when you 're beginning to grow up .
It keeps me busy all the time thinking them over and deciding what is right .
It 's a serious thing to grow up , is n't it , Marilla ?
But when I have such good friends as you and Matthew and Mrs. Allan and Miss Stacy I ought to grow up successfully , and I 'm sure it will be my own fault if I do n't .
I feel it 's a great responsibility because I have only the one chance .
If I do n't grow up right I ca n't go back and begin over again .
I 've grown two inches this summer , Marilla .
Mr. Gillis measured me at Ruby 's party .
I 'm so glad you made my new dresses longer .
That dark-green one is so pretty and it was sweet of you to put on the flounce .
Of course I know it was n't really necessary , but flounces are so stylish this fall and Josie Pye has flounces on all her dresses .
I know I 'll be able to study better because of mine .
I shall have such a comfortable feeling deep down in my mind about that flounce . ''
`` It 's worth something to have that , '' admitted Marilla .
Miss Stacy came back to Avonlea school and found all her pupils eager for work once more .
Especially did the Queen 's class gird up their loins for the fray , for at the end of the coming year , dimly shadowing their pathway already , loomed up that fateful thing known as `` the Entrance , '' at the thought of which one and all felt their hearts sink into their very shoes .
Suppose they did not pass !
That thought was doomed to haunt Anne through the waking hours of that winter , Sunday afternoons inclusive , to the almost entire exclusion of moral and theological problems .
When Anne had bad dreams she found herself staring miserably at pass lists of the Entrance exams , where Gilbert Blythe 's name was blazoned at the top and in which hers did not appear at all .
But it was a jolly , busy , happy swift-flying winter .
Schoolwork was as interesting , class rivalry as absorbing , as of yore .
New worlds of thought , feeling , and ambition , fresh , fascinating fields of unexplored knowledge seemed to be opening out before Anne 's eager eyes .
`` Hills peeped o'er hill and Alps on Alps arose . ''
Much of all this was due to Miss Stacy 's tactful , careful , broadminded guidance .
She led her class to think and explore and discover for themselves and encouraged straying from the old beaten paths to a degree that quite shocked Mrs. Lynde and the school trustees , who viewed all innovations on established methods rather dubiously .
Apart from her studies Anne expanded socially , for Marilla , mindful of the Spencervale doctor 's dictum , no longer vetoed occasional outings .
The Debating Club flourished and gave several concerts ; there were one or two parties almost verging on grown-up affairs ; there were sleigh drives and skating frolics galore .
Betweentimes Anne grew , shooting up so rapidly that Marilla was astonished one day , when they were standing side by side , to find the girl was taller than herself .
`` Why , Anne , how you 've grown ! ''
she said , almost unbelievingly .
A sigh followed on the words .
Marilla felt a queer regret over Anne 's inches .
The child she had learned to love had vanished somehow and here was this tall , serious-eyed girl of fifteen , with the thoughtful brows and the proudly poised little head , in her place .
Marilla loved the girl as much as she had loved the child , but she was conscious of a queer sorrowful sense of loss .
And that night , when Anne had gone to prayer meeting with Diana , Marilla sat alone in the wintry twilight and indulged in the weakness of a cry .
Matthew , coming in with a lantern , caught her at it and gazed at her in such consternation that Marilla had to laugh through her tears .
`` I was thinking about Anne , '' she explained .
`` She 's got to be such a big girl -- and she 'll probably be away from us next winter .
I 'll miss her terrible . ''
`` She 'll be able to come home often , '' comforted Matthew , to whom Anne was as yet and always would be the little , eager girl he had brought home from Bright River on that June evening four years before .
`` The branch railroad will be built to Carmody by that time . ''
`` It wo n't be the same thing as having her here all the time , '' sighed Marilla gloomily , determined to enjoy her luxury of grief uncomforted .
`` But there -- men ca n't understand these things ! ''
There were other changes in Anne no less real than the physical change .
For one thing , she became much quieter .
Perhaps she thought all the more and dreamed as much as ever , but she certainly talked less .
Marilla noticed and commented on this also .
`` You do n't chatter half as much as you used to , Anne , nor use half as many big words .
What has come over you ? ''
Anne colored and laughed a little , as she dropped her book and looked dreamily out of the window , where big fat red buds were bursting out on the creeper in response to the lure of the spring sunshine .
`` I do n't know -- I do n't want to talk as much , '' she said , denting her chin thoughtfully with her forefinger .
`` It 's nicer to think dear , pretty thoughts and keep them in one 's heart , like treasures .
I do n't like to have them laughed at or wondered over .
And somehow I do n't want to use big words any more .
It 's almost a pity , is n't it , now that I 'm really growing big enough to say them if I did want to .
It 's fun to be almost grown up in some ways , but it 's not the kind of fun I expected , Marilla .
There 's so much to learn and do and think that there is n't time for big words .
Besides , Miss Stacy says the short ones are much stronger and better .
She makes us write all our essays as simply as possible .
It was hard at first .
I was so used to crowding in all the fine big words I could think of -- and I thought of any number of them .
But I 've got used to it now and I see it 's so much better . ''
`` What has become of your story club ?
I have n't heard you speak of it for a long time . ''
`` The story club is n't in existence any longer .
We had n't time for it -- and anyhow I think we had got tired of it .
It was silly to be writing about love and murder and elopements and mysteries .
Miss Stacy sometimes has us write a story for training in composition , but she wo n't let us write anything but what might happen in Avonlea in our own lives , and she criticizes it very sharply and makes us criticize our own too .
I never thought my compositions had so many faults until I began to look for them myself .
I felt so ashamed I wanted to give up altogether , but Miss Stacy said I could learn to write well if I only trained myself to be my own severest critic .
And so I am trying to . ''
`` You 've only two more months before the Entrance , '' said Marilla .
`` Do you think you 'll be able to get through ? ''
Anne shivered .
`` I do n't know .
Sometimes I think I 'll be all right -- and then I get horribly afraid .
We 've studied hard and Miss Stacy has drilled us thoroughly , but we may n't get through for all that .
We 've each got a stumbling block .
Mine is geometry of course , and Jane 's is Latin , and Ruby and Charlie 's is algebra , and Josie 's is arithmetic .
Moody Spurgeon says he feels it in his bones that he is going to fail in English history .
Miss Stacy is going to give us examinations in June just as hard as we 'll have at the Entrance and mark us just as strictly , so we 'll have some idea .
I wish it was all over , Marilla .
It haunts me .
Sometimes I wake up in the night and wonder what I 'll do if I do n't pass . ''
`` Why , go to school next year and try again , '' said Marilla unconcernedly .
`` Oh , I do n't believe I 'd have the heart for it .
It would be such a disgrace to fail , especially if Gil -- if the others passed .
And I get so nervous in an examination that I 'm likely to make a mess of it .
I wish I had nerves like Jane Andrews .
Nothing rattles her . ''
Anne sighed and , dragging her eyes from the witcheries of the spring world , the beckoning day of breeze and blue , and the green things upspringing in the garden , buried herself resolutely in her book .
There would be other springs , but if she did not succeed in passing the Entrance , Anne felt convinced that she would never recover sufficiently to enjoy them .
CHAPTER XXXII .
The Pass List Is Out With the end of June came the close of the term and the close of Miss Stacy 's rule in Avonlea school .
Anne and Diana walked home that evening feeling very sober indeed .
Red eyes and damp handkerchiefs bore convincing testimony to the fact that Miss Stacy 's farewell words must have been quite as touching as Mr. Phillips 's had been under similar circumstances three years before .
Diana looked back at the schoolhouse from the foot of the spruce hill and sighed deeply .
`` It does seem as if it was the end of everything , does n't it ? ''
she said dismally .
`` You ought n't to feel half as badly as I do , '' said Anne , hunting vainly for a dry spot on her handkerchief .
`` You 'll be back again next winter , but I suppose I 've left the dear old school forever -- if I have good luck , that is . ''
`` It wo n't be a bit the same .
Miss Stacy wo n't be there , nor you nor Jane nor Ruby probably .
I shall have to sit all alone , for I could n't bear to have another deskmate after you .
Oh , we have had jolly times , have n't we , Anne ?
It 's dreadful to think they 're all over . ''
Two big tears rolled down by Diana 's nose .
`` If you would stop crying I could , '' said Anne imploringly .
`` Just as soon as I put away my hanky I see you brimming up and that starts me off again .
As Mrs. Lynde says , ` If you ca n't be cheerful , be as cheerful as you can . '
After all , I dare say I 'll be back next year .
This is one of the times I KNOW I 'm not going to pass .
They 're getting alarmingly frequent . ''
`` Why , you came out splendidly in the exams Miss Stacy gave . ''
`` Yes , but those exams did n't make me nervous .
When I think of the real thing you ca n't imagine what a horrid cold fluttery feeling comes round my heart .
And then my number is thirteen and Josie Pye says it 's so unlucky .
I am NOT superstitious and I know it can make no difference .
But still I wish it was n't thirteen . ''
`` I do wish I was going in with you , '' said Diana .
`` Would n't we have a perfectly elegant time ?
But I suppose you 'll have to cram in the evenings . ''
`` No ; Miss Stacy has made us promise not to open a book at all .
She says it would only tire and confuse us and we are to go out walking and not think about the exams at all and go to bed early .
It 's good advice , but I expect it will be hard to follow ; good advice is apt to be , I think .
Prissy Andrews told me that she sat up half the night every night of her Entrance week and crammed for dear life ; and I had determined to sit up AT LEAST as long as she did .
It was so kind of your Aunt Josephine to ask me to stay at Beechwood while I 'm in town . ''
`` You 'll write to me while you 're in , wo n't you ? ''
`` I 'll write Tuesday night and tell you how the first day goes , '' promised Anne .
`` I 'll be haunting the post office Wednesday , '' vowed Diana .
Anne went to town the following Monday and on Wednesday Diana haunted the post office , as agreed , and got her letter .
`` Dearest Diana '' -LSB- wrote Anne -RSB- , `` Here it is Tuesday night and I 'm writing this in the library at Beechwood .
Last night I was horribly lonesome all alone in my room and wished so much you were with me .
I could n't `` cram '' because I 'd promised Miss Stacy not to , but it was as hard to keep from opening my history as it used to be to keep from reading a story before my lessons were learned .
`` This morning Miss Stacy came for me and we went to the Academy , calling for Jane and Ruby and Josie on our way .
Ruby asked me to feel her hands and they were as cold as ice .
Josie said I looked as if I had n't slept a wink and she did n't believe I was strong enough to stand the grind of the teacher 's course even if I did get through .
There are times and seasons even yet when I do n't feel that I 've made any great headway in learning to like Josie Pye !
`` When we reached the Academy there were scores of students there from all over the Island .
The first person we saw was Moody Spurgeon sitting on the steps and muttering away to himself .
Jane asked him what on earth he was doing and he said he was repeating the multiplication table over and over to steady his nerves and for pity 's sake not to interrupt him , because if he stopped for a moment he got frightened and forgot everything he ever knew , but the multiplication table kept all his facts firmly in their proper place !
`` When we were assigned to our rooms Miss Stacy had to leave us .
Jane and I sat together and Jane was so composed that I envied her .
No need of the multiplication table for good , steady , sensible Jane !
I wondered if I looked as I felt and if they could hear my heart thumping clear across the room .
Then a man came in and began distributing the English examination sheets .
My hands grew cold then and my head fairly whirled around as I picked it up .
Just one awful moment -- Diana , I felt exactly as I did four years ago when I asked Marilla if I might stay at Green Gables -- and then everything cleared up in my mind and my heart began beating again -- I forgot to say that it had stopped altogether !
-- for I knew I could do something with THAT paper anyhow .
`` At noon we went home for dinner and then back again for history in the afternoon .
The history was a pretty hard paper and I got dreadfully mixed up in the dates .
Still , I think I did fairly well today .
But oh , Diana , tomorrow the geometry exam comes off and when I think of it it takes every bit of determination I possess to keep from opening my Euclid .
If I thought the multiplication table would help me any I would recite it from now till tomorrow morning .
`` I went down to see the other girls this evening .
On my way I met Moody Spurgeon wandering distractedly around .
He said he knew he had failed in history and he was born to be a disappointment to his parents and he was going home on the morning train ; and it would be easier to be a carpenter than a minister , anyhow .
I cheered him up and persuaded him to stay to the end because it would be unfair to Miss Stacy if he did n't .
Sometimes I have wished I was born a boy , but when I see Moody Spurgeon I 'm always glad I 'm a girl and not his sister .
`` Ruby was in hysterics when I reached their boardinghouse ; she had just discovered a fearful mistake she had made in her English paper .
When she recovered we went uptown and had an ice cream .
How we wished you had been with us .
`` Oh , Diana , if only the geometry examination were over !
But there , as Mrs. Lynde would say , the sun will go on rising and setting whether I fail in geometry or not .
That is true but not especially comforting .
I think I 'd rather it did n't go on if I failed !
`` Yours devotedly , `` Anne '' The geometry examination and all the others were over in due time and Anne arrived home on Friday evening , rather tired but with an air of chastened triumph about her .
Diana was over at Green Gables when she arrived and they met as if they had been parted for years .
`` You old darling , it 's perfectly splendid to see you back again .
It seems like an age since you went to town and oh , Anne , how did you get along ? ''
`` Pretty well , I think , in everything but the geometry .
I do n't know whether I passed in it or not and I have a creepy , crawly presentiment that I did n't .
Oh , how good it is to be back !
Green Gables is the dearest , loveliest spot in the world . ''
`` How did the others do ? ''
`` The girls say they know they did n't pass , but I think they did pretty well .
Josie says the geometry was so easy a child of ten could do it !
Moody Spurgeon still thinks he failed in history and Charlie says he failed in algebra .
But we do n't really know anything about it and wo n't until the pass list is out .
That wo n't be for a fortnight .
Fancy living a fortnight in such suspense !
I wish I could go to sleep and never wake up until it is over . ''
Diana knew it would be useless to ask how Gilbert Blythe had fared , so she merely said : `` Oh , you 'll pass all right .
Do n't worry . ''
`` I 'd rather not pass at all than not come out pretty well up on the list , '' flashed Anne , by which she meant -- and Diana knew she meant -- that success would be incomplete and bitter if she did not come out ahead of Gilbert Blythe .
With this end in view Anne had strained every nerve during the examinations .
So had Gilbert .
They had met and passed each other on the street a dozen times without any sign of recognition and every time Anne had held her head a little higher and wished a little more earnestly that she had made friends with Gilbert when he asked her , and vowed a little more determinedly to surpass him in the examination .
She knew that all Avonlea junior was wondering which would come out first ; she even knew that Jimmy Glover and Ned Wright had a bet on the question and that Josie Pye had said there was no doubt in the world that Gilbert would be first ; and she felt that her humiliation would be unbearable if she failed .
But she had another and nobler motive for wishing to do well .
She wanted to `` pass high '' for the sake of Matthew and Marilla -- especially Matthew .
Matthew had declared to her his conviction that she `` would beat the whole Island . ''
That , Anne felt , was something it would be foolish to hope for even in the wildest dreams .
But she did hope fervently that she would be among the first ten at least , so that she might see Matthew 's kindly brown eyes gleam with pride in her achievement .
That , she felt , would be a sweet reward indeed for all her hard work and patient grubbing among unimaginative equations and conjugations .
At the end of the fortnight Anne took to `` haunting '' the post office also , in the distracted company of Jane , Ruby , and Josie , opening the Charlottetown dailies with shaking hands and cold , sinkaway feelings as bad as any experienced during the Entrance week .
Charlie and Gilbert were not above doing this too , but Moody Spurgeon stayed resolutely away .
`` I have n't got the grit to go there and look at a paper in cold blood , '' he told Anne .
`` I 'm just going to wait until somebody comes and tells me suddenly whether I 've passed or not . ''
When three weeks had gone by without the pass list appearing Anne began to feel that she really could n't stand the strain much longer .
Her appetite failed and her interest in Avonlea doings languished .
Mrs. Lynde wanted to know what else you could expect with a Tory superintendent of education at the head of affairs , and Matthew , noting Anne 's paleness and indifference and the lagging steps that bore her home from the post office every afternoon , began seriously to wonder if he had n't better vote Grit at the next election .
But one evening the news came .
Anne was sitting at her open window , for the time forgetful of the woes of examinations and the cares of the world , as she drank in the beauty of the summer dusk , sweet-scented with flower breaths from the garden below and sibilant and rustling from the stir of poplars .
The eastern sky above the firs was flushed faintly pink from the reflection of the west , and Anne was wondering dreamily if the spirit of color looked like that , when she saw Diana come flying down through the firs , over the log bridge , and up the slope , with a fluttering newspaper in her hand .
Anne sprang to her feet , knowing at once what that paper contained .
The pass list was out !
Her head whirled and her heart beat until it hurt her .
She could not move a step .
It seemed an hour to her before Diana came rushing along the hall and burst into the room without even knocking , so great was her excitement .
`` Anne , you 've passed , '' she cried , `` passed the VERY FIRST -- you and Gilbert both -- you 're ties -- but your name is first .
Oh , I 'm so proud ! ''
Diana flung the paper on the table and herself on Anne 's bed , utterly breathless and incapable of further speech .
Anne lighted the lamp , oversetting the match safe and using up half a dozen matches before her shaking hands could accomplish the task .
Then she snatched up the paper .
Yes , she had passed -- there was her name at the very top of a list of two hundred !
That moment was worth living for .
`` You did just splendidly , Anne , '' puffed Diana , recovering sufficiently to sit up and speak , for Anne , starry eyed and rapt , had not uttered a word .
`` Father brought the paper home from Bright River not ten minutes ago -- it came out on the afternoon train , you know , and wo n't be here till tomorrow by mail -- and when I saw the pass list I just rushed over like a wild thing .
You 've all passed , every one of you , Moody Spurgeon and all , although he 's conditioned in history .
Jane and Ruby did pretty well -- they 're halfway up -- and so did Charlie .
Josie just scraped through with three marks to spare , but you 'll see she 'll put on as many airs as if she 'd led .
Wo n't Miss Stacy be delighted ?
Oh , Anne , what does it feel like to see your name at the head of a pass list like that ?
If it were me I know I 'd go crazy with joy .
I am pretty near crazy as it is , but you 're as calm and cool as a spring evening . ''
`` I 'm just dazzled inside , '' said Anne .
`` I want to say a hundred things , and I ca n't find words to say them in .
I never dreamed of this -- yes , I did too , just once !
I let myself think ONCE , ` What if I should come out first ? '
quakingly , you know , for it seemed so vain and presumptuous to think I could lead the Island .
Excuse me a minute , Diana .
I must run right out to the field to tell Matthew .
Then we 'll go up the road and tell the good news to the others . ''
They hurried to the hayfield below the barn where Matthew was coiling hay , and , as luck would have it , Mrs. Lynde was talking to Marilla at the lane fence .
`` Oh , Matthew , '' exclaimed Anne , `` I 've passed and I 'm first -- or one of the first !
I 'm not vain , but I 'm thankful . ''
`` Well now , I always said it , '' said Matthew , gazing at the pass list delightedly .
`` I knew you could beat them all easy . ''
`` You 've done pretty well , I must say , Anne , '' said Marilla , trying to hide her extreme pride in Anne from Mrs. Rachel 's critical eye .
But that good soul said heartily : `` I just guess she has done well , and far be it from me to be backward in saying it .
You 're a credit to your friends , Anne , that 's what , and we 're all proud of you . ''
That night Anne , who had wound up the delightful evening with a serious little talk with Mrs. Allan at the manse , knelt sweetly by her open window in a great sheen of moonshine and murmured a prayer of gratitude and aspiration that came straight from her heart .
There was in it thankfulness for the past and reverent petition for the future ; and when she slept on her white pillow her dreams were as fair and bright and beautiful as maidenhood might desire .
CHAPTER XXXIII .
The Hotel Concert `` Put on your white organdy , by all means , Anne , '' advised Diana decidedly .
They were together in the east gable chamber ; outside it was only twilight -- a lovely yellowish-green twilight with a clear-blue cloudless sky .
A big round moon , slowly deepening from her pallid luster into burnished silver , hung over the Haunted Wood ; the air was full of sweet summer sounds -- sleepy birds twittering , freakish breezes , faraway voices and laughter .
But in Anne 's room the blind was drawn and the lamp lighted , for an important toilet was being made .
The east gable was a very different place from what it had been on that night four years before , when Anne had felt its bareness penetrate to the marrow of her spirit with its inhospitable chill .
Changes had crept in , Marilla conniving at them resignedly , until it was as sweet and dainty a nest as a young girl could desire .
The velvet carpet with the pink roses and the pink silk curtains of Anne 's early visions had certainly never materialized ; but her dreams had kept pace with her growth , and it is not probable she lamented them .
The floor was covered with a pretty matting , and the curtains that softened the high window and fluttered in the vagrant breezes were of pale-green art muslin .
The walls , hung not with gold and silver brocade tapestry , but with a dainty apple-blossom paper , were adorned with a few good pictures given Anne by Mrs. Allan .
Miss Stacy 's photograph occupied the place of honor , and Anne made a sentimental point of keeping fresh flowers on the bracket under it .
Tonight a spike of white lilies faintly perfumed the room like the dream of a fragrance .
There was no `` mahogany furniture , '' but there was a white-painted bookcase filled with books , a cushioned wicker rocker , a toilet table befrilled with white muslin , a quaint , gilt-framed mirror with chubby pink Cupids and purple grapes painted over its arched top , that used to hang in the spare room , and a low white bed .
Anne was dressing for a concert at the White Sands Hotel .
The guests had got it up in aid of the Charlottetown hospital , and had hunted out all the available amateur talent in the surrounding districts to help it along .
Bertha Sampson and Pearl Clay of the White Sands Baptist choir had been asked to sing a duet ; Milton Clark of Newbridge was to give a violin solo ; Winnie Adella Blair of Carmody was to sing a Scotch ballad ; and Laura Spencer of Spencervale and Anne Shirley of Avonlea were to recite .
As Anne would have said at one time , it was `` an epoch in her life , '' and she was deliciously athrill with the excitement of it .
Matthew was in the seventh heaven of gratified pride over the honor conferred on his Anne and Marilla was not far behind , although she would have died rather than admit it , and said she did n't think it was very proper for a lot of young folks to be gadding over to the hotel without any responsible person with them .
Anne and Diana were to drive over with Jane Andrews and her brother Billy in their double-seated buggy ; and several other Avonlea girls and boys were going too .
There was a party of visitors expected out from town , and after the concert a supper was to be given to the performers .
`` Do you really think the organdy will be best ? ''
queried Anne anxiously .
`` I do n't think it 's as pretty as my blue-flowered muslin -- and it certainly is n't so fashionable . ''
`` But it suits you ever so much better , '' said Diana .
`` It 's so soft and frilly and clinging .
The muslin is stiff , and makes you look too dressed up .
But the organdy seems as if it grew on you . ''
Anne sighed and yielded .
Diana was beginning to have a reputation for notable taste in dressing , and her advice on such subjects was much sought after .
She was looking very pretty herself on this particular night in a dress of the lovely wild-rose pink , from which Anne was forever debarred ; but she was not to take any part in the concert , so her appearance was of minor importance .
All her pains were bestowed upon Anne , who , she vowed , must , for the credit of Avonlea , be dressed and combed and adorned to the Queen 's taste .
`` Pull out that frill a little more -- so ; here , let me tie your sash ; now for your slippers .
I 'm going to braid your hair in two thick braids , and tie them halfway up with big white bows -- no , do n't pull out a single curl over your forehead -- just have the soft part .
There is no way you do your hair suits you so well , Anne , and Mrs. Allan says you look like a Madonna when you part it so .
I shall fasten this little white house rose just behind your ear .
There was just one on my bush , and I saved it for you . ''
`` Shall I put my pearl beads on ? ''
asked Anne .
`` Matthew brought me a string from town last week , and I know he 'd like to see them on me . ''
Diana pursed up her lips , put her black head on one side critically , and finally pronounced in favor of the beads , which were thereupon tied around Anne 's slim milk-white throat .
`` There 's something so stylish about you , Anne , '' said Diana , with unenvious admiration .
`` You hold your head with such an air .
I suppose it 's your figure .
I am just a dumpling .
I 've always been afraid of it , and now I know it is so .
Well , I suppose I shall just have to resign myself to it . ''
`` But you have such dimples , '' said Anne , smiling affectionately into the pretty , vivacious face so near her own .
`` Lovely dimples , like little dents in cream .
I have given up all hope of dimples .
My dimple-dream will never come true ; but so many of my dreams have that I must n't complain .
Am I all ready now ? ''
`` All ready , '' assured Diana , as Marilla appeared in the doorway , a gaunt figure with grayer hair than of yore and no fewer angles , but with a much softer face .
`` Come right in and look at our elocutionist , Marilla .
Does n't she look lovely ? ''
Marilla emitted a sound between a sniff and a grunt .
`` She looks neat and proper .
I like that way of fixing her hair .
But I expect she 'll ruin that dress driving over there in the dust and dew with it , and it looks most too thin for these damp nights .
Organdy 's the most unserviceable stuff in the world anyhow , and I told Matthew so when he got it .
But there is no use in saying anything to Matthew nowadays .
Time was when he would take my advice , but now he just buys things for Anne regardless , and the clerks at Carmody know they can palm anything off on him .
Just let them tell him a thing is pretty and fashionable , and Matthew plunks his money down for it .
Mind you keep your skirt clear of the wheel , Anne , and put your warm jacket on . ''
Then Marilla stalked downstairs , thinking proudly how sweet Anne looked , with that `` One moonbeam from the forehead to the crown '' and regretting that she could not go to the concert herself to hear her girl recite .
`` I wonder if it IS too damp for my dress , '' said Anne anxiously .
`` Not a bit of it , '' said Diana , pulling up the window blind .
`` It 's a perfect night , and there wo n't be any dew .
Look at the moonlight . ''
`` I 'm so glad my window looks east into the sunrising , '' said Anne , going over to Diana .
`` It 's so splendid to see the morning coming up over those long hills and glowing through those sharp fir tops .
It 's new every morning , and I feel as if I washed my very soul in that bath of earliest sunshine .
Oh , Diana , I love this little room so dearly .
I do n't know how I 'll get along without it when I go to town next month . ''
`` Do n't speak of your going away tonight , '' begged Diana .
`` I do n't want to think of it , it makes me so miserable , and I do want to have a good time this evening .
What are you going to recite , Anne ?
And are you nervous ? ''
`` Not a bit .
I 've recited so often in public I do n't mind at all now .
I 've decided to give ` The Maiden 's Vow . '
It 's so pathetic .
Laura Spencer is going to give a comic recitation , but I 'd rather make people cry than laugh . ''
`` What will you recite if they encore you ? ''
`` They wo n't dream of encoring me , '' scoffed Anne , who was not without her own secret hopes that they would , and already visioned herself telling Matthew all about it at the next morning 's breakfast table .
`` There are Billy and Jane now -- I hear the wheels .
Come on . ''
Billy Andrews insisted that Anne should ride on the front seat with him , so she unwillingly climbed up .
She would have much preferred to sit back with the girls , where she could have laughed and chattered to her heart 's content .
There was not much of either laughter or chatter in Billy .
He was a big , fat , stolid youth of twenty , with a round , expressionless face , and a painful lack of conversational gifts .
But he admired Anne immensely , and was puffed up with pride over the prospect of driving to White Sands with that slim , upright figure beside him .
Anne , by dint of talking over her shoulder to the girls and occasionally passing a sop of civility to Billy -- who grinned and chuckled and never could think of any reply until it was too late -- contrived to enjoy the drive in spite of all .
It was a night for enjoyment .
The road was full of buggies , all bound for the hotel , and laughter , silver clear , echoed and reechoed along it .
When they reached the hotel it was a blaze of light from top to bottom .
They were met by the ladies of the concert committee , one of whom took Anne off to the performers ' dressing room which was filled with the members of a Charlottetown Symphony Club , among whom Anne felt suddenly shy and frightened and countrified .
Her dress , which , in the east gable , had seemed so dainty and pretty , now seemed simple and plain -- too simple and plain , she thought , among all the silks and laces that glistened and rustled around her .
What were her pearl beads compared to the diamonds of the big , handsome lady near her ?
And how poor her one wee white rose must look beside all the hothouse flowers the others wore !
Anne laid her hat and jacket away , and shrank miserably into a corner .
She wished herself back in the white room at Green Gables .
It was still worse on the platform of the big concert hall of the hotel , where she presently found herself .
The electric lights dazzled her eyes , the perfume and hum bewildered her .
She wished she were sitting down in the audience with Diana and Jane , who seemed to be having a splendid time away at the back .
She was wedged in between a stout lady in pink silk and a tall , scornful-looking girl in a white-lace dress .
The stout lady occasionally turned her head squarely around and surveyed Anne through her eyeglasses until Anne , acutely sensitive of being so scrutinized , felt that she must scream aloud ; and the white-lace girl kept talking audibly to her next neighbor about the `` country bumpkins '' and `` rustic belles '' in the audience , languidly anticipating `` such fun '' from the displays of local talent on the program .
Anne believed that she would hate that white-lace girl to the end of life .
Unfortunately for Anne , a professional elocutionist was staying at the hotel and had consented to recite .
She was a lithe , dark-eyed woman in a wonderful gown of shimmering gray stuff like woven moonbeams , with gems on her neck and in her dark hair .
She had a marvelously flexible voice and wonderful power of expression ; the audience went wild over her selection .
Anne , forgetting all about herself and her troubles for the time , listened with rapt and shining eyes ; but when the recitation ended she suddenly put her hands over her face .
She could never get up and recite after that -- never .
Had she ever thought she could recite ?
Oh , if she were only back at Green Gables !
At this unpropitious moment her name was called .
Somehow Anne -- who did not notice the rather guilty little start of surprise the white-lace girl gave , and would not have understood the subtle compliment implied therein if she had -- got on her feet , and moved dizzily out to the front .
She was so pale that Diana and Jane , down in the audience , clasped each other 's hands in nervous sympathy .
Anne was the victim of an overwhelming attack of stage fright .
Often as she had recited in public , she had never before faced such an audience as this , and the sight of it paralyzed her energies completely .
Everything was so strange , so brilliant , so bewildering -- the rows of ladies in evening dress , the critical faces , the whole atmosphere of wealth and culture about her .
Very different this from the plain benches at the Debating Club , filled with the homely , sympathetic faces of friends and neighbors .
These people , she thought , would be merciless critics .
Perhaps , like the white-lace girl , they anticipated amusement from her `` rustic '' efforts .
She felt hopelessly , helplessly ashamed and miserable .
Her knees trembled , her heart fluttered , a horrible faintness came over her ; not a word could she utter , and the next moment she would have fled from the platform despite the humiliation which , she felt , must ever after be her portion if she did so .
But suddenly , as her dilated , frightened eyes gazed out over the audience , she saw Gilbert Blythe away at the back of the room , bending forward with a smile on his face -- a smile which seemed to Anne at once triumphant and taunting .
In reality it was nothing of the kind .
Gilbert was merely smiling with appreciation of the whole affair in general and of the effect produced by Anne 's slender white form and spiritual face against a background of palms in particular .
Josie Pye , whom he had driven over , sat beside him , and her face certainly was both triumphant and taunting .
But Anne did not see Josie , and would not have cared if she had .
She drew a long breath and flung her head up proudly , courage and determination tingling over her like an electric shock .
She WOULD NOT fail before Gilbert Blythe -- he should never be able to laugh at her , never , never !
Her fright and nervousness vanished ; and she began her recitation , her clear , sweet voice reaching to the farthest corner of the room without a tremor or a break .
Self-possession was fully restored to her , and in the reaction from that horrible moment of powerlessness she recited as she had never done before .
When she finished there were bursts of honest applause .
Anne , stepping back to her seat , blushing with shyness and delight , found her hand vigorously clasped and shaken by the stout lady in pink silk .
`` My dear , you did splendidly , '' she puffed .
`` I 've been crying like a baby , actually I have .
There , they 're encoring you -- they 're bound to have you back ! ''
`` Oh , I ca n't go , '' said Anne confusedly .
`` But yet -- I must , or Matthew will be disappointed .
He said they would encore me . ''
`` Then do n't disappoint Matthew , '' said the pink lady , laughing .
Smiling , blushing , limpid eyed , Anne tripped back and gave a quaint , funny little selection that captivated her audience still further .
The rest of the evening was quite a little triumph for her .
When the concert was over , the stout , pink lady -- who was the wife of an American millionaire -- took her under her wing , and introduced her to everybody ; and everybody was very nice to her .
The professional elocutionist , Mrs. Evans , came and chatted with her , telling her that she had a charming voice and `` interpreted '' her selections beautifully .
Even the white-lace girl paid her a languid little compliment .
They had supper in the big , beautifully decorated dining room ; Diana and Jane were invited to partake of this , also , since they had come with Anne , but Billy was nowhere to be found , having decamped in mortal fear of some such invitation .
He was in waiting for them , with the team , however , when it was all over , and the three girls came merrily out into the calm , white moonshine radiance .
Anne breathed deeply , and looked into the clear sky beyond the dark boughs of the firs .
Oh , it was good to be out again in the purity and silence of the night !
How great and still and wonderful everything was , with the murmur of the sea sounding through it and the darkling cliffs beyond like grim giants guarding enchanted coasts .
`` Has n't it been a perfectly splendid time ? ''
sighed Jane , as they drove away .
`` I just wish I was a rich American and could spend my summer at a hotel and wear jewels and low-necked dresses and have ice cream and chicken salad every blessed day .
I 'm sure it would be ever so much more fun than teaching school .
Anne , your recitation was simply great , although I thought at first you were never going to begin .
I think it was better than Mrs. Evans 's . ''
`` Oh , no , do n't say things like that , Jane , '' said Anne quickly , `` because it sounds silly .
It could n't be better than Mrs. Evans 's , you know , for she is a professional , and I 'm only a schoolgirl , with a little knack of reciting .
I 'm quite satisfied if the people just liked mine pretty well . ''
`` I 've a compliment for you , Anne , '' said Diana .
`` At least I think it must be a compliment because of the tone he said it in .
Part of it was anyhow .
There was an American sitting behind Jane and me -- such a romantic-looking man , with coal-black hair and eyes .
Josie Pye says he is a distinguished artist , and that her mother 's cousin in Boston is married to a man that used to go to school with him .
Well , we heard him say -- did n't we , Jane ?
-- ` Who is that girl on the platform with the splendid Titian hair ?
She has a face I should like to paint . '
There now , Anne .
But what does Titian hair mean ? ''
`` Being interpreted it means plain red , I guess , '' laughed Anne .
`` Titian was a very famous artist who liked to paint red-haired women . ''
`` DID you see all the diamonds those ladies wore ? ''
sighed Jane .
`` They were simply dazzling .
Would n't you just love to be rich , girls ? ''
`` We ARE rich , '' said Anne staunchly .
`` Why , we have sixteen years to our credit , and we 're happy as queens , and we 've all got imaginations , more or less .
Look at that sea , girls -- all silver and shadow and vision of things not seen .
We could n't enjoy its loveliness any more if we had millions of dollars and ropes of diamonds .
You would n't change into any of those women if you could .
Would you want to be that white-lace girl and wear a sour look all your life , as if you 'd been born turning up your nose at the world ?
Or the pink lady , kind and nice as she is , so stout and short that you 'd really no figure at all ?
Or even Mrs. Evans , with that sad , sad look in her eyes ?
She must have been dreadfully unhappy sometime to have such a look .
You KNOW you would n't , Jane Andrews ! ''
`` I DO N'T know -- exactly , '' said Jane unconvinced .
`` I think diamonds would comfort a person for a good deal . ''
`` Well , I do n't want to be anyone but myself , even if I go uncomforted by diamonds all my life , '' declared Anne .
`` I 'm quite content to be Anne of Green Gables , with my string of pearl beads .
I know Matthew gave me as much love with them as ever went with Madame the Pink Lady 's jewels . ''
CHAPTER XXXIV .
A Queen 's Girl The next three weeks were busy ones at Green Gables , for Anne was getting ready to go to Queen 's , and there was much sewing to be done , and many things to be talked over and arranged .
Anne 's outfit was ample and pretty , for Matthew saw to that , and Marilla for once made no objections whatever to anything he purchased or suggested .
More -- one evening she went up to the east gable with her arms full of a delicate pale green material .
`` Anne , here 's something for a nice light dress for you .
I do n't suppose you really need it ; you 've plenty of pretty waists ; but I thought maybe you 'd like something real dressy to wear if you were asked out anywhere of an evening in town , to a party or anything like that .
I hear that Jane and Ruby and Josie have got ` evening dresses , ' as they call them , and I do n't mean you shall be behind them .
I got Mrs. Allan to help me pick it in town last week , and we 'll get Emily Gillis to make it for you .
Emily has got taste , and her fits are n't to be equaled . ''
`` Oh , Marilla , it 's just lovely , '' said Anne .
`` Thank you so much .
I do n't believe you ought to be so kind to me -- it 's making it harder every day for me to go away . ''
The green dress was made up with as many tucks and frills and shirrings as Emily 's taste permitted .
Anne put it on one evening for Matthew 's and Marilla 's benefit , and recited `` The Maiden 's Vow '' for them in the kitchen .
As Marilla watched the bright , animated face and graceful motions her thoughts went back to the evening Anne had arrived at Green Gables , and memory recalled a vivid picture of the odd , frightened child in her preposterous yellowish-brown wincey dress , the heartbreak looking out of her tearful eyes .
Something in the memory brought tears to Marilla 's own eyes .
`` I declare , my recitation has made you cry , Marilla , '' said Anne gaily stooping over Marilla 's chair to drop a butterfly kiss on that lady 's cheek .
`` Now , I call that a positive triumph . ''
`` No , I was n't crying over your piece , '' said Marilla , who would have scorned to be betrayed into such weakness by any poetry stuff .
`` I just could n't help thinking of the little girl you used to be , Anne .
And I was wishing you could have stayed a little girl , even with all your queer ways .
You 've grown up now and you 're going away ; and you look so tall and stylish and so -- so -- different altogether in that dress -- as if you did n't belong in Avonlea at all -- and I just got lonesome thinking it all over . ''
`` Marilla ! ''
Anne sat down on Marilla 's gingham lap , took Marilla 's lined face between her hands , and looked gravely and tenderly into Marilla 's eyes .
`` I 'm not a bit changed -- not really .
I 'm only just pruned down and branched out .
The real ME -- back here -- is just the same .
It wo n't make a bit of difference where I go or how much I change outwardly ; at heart I shall always be your little Anne , who will love you and Matthew and dear Green Gables more and better every day of her life . ''
Anne laid her fresh young cheek against Marilla 's faded one , and reached out a hand to pat Matthew 's shoulder .
Marilla would have given much just then to have possessed Anne 's power of putting her feelings into words ; but nature and habit had willed it otherwise , and she could only put her arms close about her girl and hold her tenderly to her heart , wishing that she need never let her go .
Matthew , with a suspicious moisture in his eyes , got up and went out-of-doors .
Under the stars of the blue summer night he walked agitatedly across the yard to the gate under the poplars .
`` Well now , I guess she ai n't been much spoiled , '' he muttered , proudly .
`` I guess my putting in my oar occasional never did much harm after all .
She 's smart and pretty , and loving , too , which is better than all the rest .
She 's been a blessing to us , and there never was a luckier mistake than what Mrs. Spencer made -- if it WAS luck .
I do n't believe it was any such thing .
It was Providence , because the Almighty saw we needed her , I reckon . ''
The day finally came when Anne must go to town .
She and Matthew drove in one fine September morning , after a tearful parting with Diana and an untearful practical one -- on Marilla 's side at least -- with Marilla .
But when Anne had gone Diana dried her tears and went to a beach picnic at White Sands with some of her Carmody cousins , where she contrived to enjoy herself tolerably well ; while Marilla plunged fiercely into unnecessary work and kept at it all day long with the bitterest kind of heartache -- the ache that burns and gnaws and can not wash itself away in ready tears .
But that night , when Marilla went to bed , acutely and miserably conscious that the little gable room at the end of the hall was untenanted by any vivid young life and unstirred by any soft breathing , she buried her face in her pillow , and wept for her girl in a passion of sobs that appalled her when she grew calm enough to reflect how very wicked it must be to take on so about a sinful fellow creature .
Anne and the rest of the Avonlea scholars reached town just in time to hurry off to the Academy .
That first day passed pleasantly enough in a whirl of excitement , meeting all the new students , learning to know the professors by sight and being assorted and organized into classes .
Anne intended taking up the Second Year work being advised to do so by Miss Stacy ; Gilbert Blythe elected to do the same .
This meant getting a First Class teacher 's license in one year instead of two , if they were successful ; but it also meant much more and harder work .
Jane , Ruby , Josie , Charlie , and Moody Spurgeon , not being troubled with the stirrings of ambition , were content to take up the Second Class work .
Anne was conscious of a pang of loneliness when she found herself in a room with fifty other students , not one of whom she knew , except the tall , brown-haired boy across the room ; and knowing him in the fashion she did , did not help her much , as she reflected pessimistically .
Yet she was undeniably glad that they were in the same class ; the old rivalry could still be carried on , and Anne would hardly have known what to do if it had been lacking .
`` I would n't feel comfortable without it , '' she thought .
`` Gilbert looks awfully determined .
I suppose he 's making up his mind , here and now , to win the medal .
What a splendid chin he has !
I never noticed it before .
I do wish Jane and Ruby had gone in for First Class , too .
I suppose I wo n't feel so much like a cat in a strange garret when I get acquainted , though .
I wonder which of the girls here are going to be my friends .
It 's really an interesting speculation .
Of course I promised Diana that no Queen 's girl , no matter how much I liked her , should ever be as dear to me as she is ; but I 've lots of second-best affections to bestow .
I like the look of that girl with the brown eyes and the crimson waist .
She looks vivid and red-rosy ; there 's that pale , fair one gazing out of the window .
She has lovely hair , and looks as if she knew a thing or two about dreams .
I 'd like to know them both -- know them well -- well enough to walk with my arm about their waists , and call them nicknames .
But just now I do n't know them and they do n't know me , and probably do n't want to know me particularly .
Oh , it 's lonesome ! ''
It was lonesomer still when Anne found herself alone in her hall bedroom that night at twilight .
She was not to board with the other girls , who all had relatives in town to take pity on them .
Miss Josephine Barry would have liked to board her , but Beechwood was so far from the Academy that it was out of the question ; so miss Barry hunted up a boarding-house , assuring Matthew and Marilla that it was the very place for Anne .
`` The lady who keeps it is a reduced gentlewoman , '' explained Miss Barry .
`` Her husband was a British officer , and she is very careful what sort of boarders she takes .
Anne will not meet with any objectionable persons under her roof .
The table is good , and the house is near the Academy , in a quiet neighborhood . ''
All this might be quite true , and indeed , proved to be so , but it did not materially help Anne in the first agony of homesickness that seized upon her .
She looked dismally about her narrow little room , with its dull-papered , pictureless walls , its small iron bedstead and empty book-case ; and a horrible choke came into her throat as she thought of her own white room at Green Gables , where she would have the pleasant consciousness of a great green still outdoors , of sweet peas growing in the garden , and moonlight falling on the orchard , of the brook below the slope and the spruce boughs tossing in the night wind beyond it , of a vast starry sky , and the light from Diana 's window shining out through the gap in the trees .
Here there was nothing of this ; Anne knew that outside of her window was a hard street , with a network of telephone wires shutting out the sky , the tramp of alien feet , and a thousand lights gleaming on stranger faces .
She knew that she was going to cry , and fought against it .
`` I WO N'T cry .
It 's silly -- and weak -- there 's the third tear splashing down by my nose .
There are more coming !
I must think of something funny to stop them .
But there 's nothing funny except what is connected with Avonlea , and that only makes things worse -- four -- five -- I 'm going home next Friday , but that seems a hundred years away .
Oh , Matthew is nearly home by now -- and Marilla is at the gate , looking down the lane for him -- six -- seven -- eight -- oh , there 's no use in counting them !
They 're coming in a flood presently .
I ca n't cheer up -- I do n't WANT to cheer up .
It 's nicer to be miserable ! ''
The flood of tears would have come , no doubt , had not Josie Pye appeared at that moment .
In the joy of seeing a familiar face Anne forgot that there had never been much love lost between her and Josie .
As a part of Avonlea life even a Pye was welcome .
`` I 'm so glad you came up , '' Anne said sincerely .
`` You 've been crying , '' remarked Josie , with aggravating pity .
`` I suppose you 're homesick -- some people have so little self-control in that respect .
I 've no intention of being homesick , I can tell you .
Town 's too jolly after that poky old Avonlea .
I wonder how I ever existed there so long .
You should n't cry , Anne ; it is n't becoming , for your nose and eyes get red , and then you seem ALL red .
I 'd a perfectly scrumptious time in the Academy today .
Our French professor is simply a duck .
His moustache would give you kerwollowps of the heart .
Have you anything eatable around , Anne ?
I 'm literally starving .
Ah , I guessed likely Marilla 'd load you up with cake .
That 's why I called round .
Otherwise I 'd have gone to the park to hear the band play with Frank Stockley .
He boards same place as I do , and he 's a sport .
He noticed you in class today , and asked me who the red-headed girl was .
I told him you were an orphan that the Cuthberts had adopted , and nobody knew very much about what you 'd been before that . ''
Anne was wondering if , after all , solitude and tears were not more satisfactory than Josie Pye 's companionship when Jane and Ruby appeared , each with an inch of Queen 's color ribbon -- purple and scarlet -- pinned proudly to her coat .
As Josie was not `` speaking '' to Jane just then she had to subside into comparative harmlessness .
`` Well , '' said Jane with a sigh , `` I feel as if I 'd lived many moons since the morning .
I ought to be home studying my Virgil -- that horrid old professor gave us twenty lines to start in on tomorrow .
But I simply could n't settle down to study tonight .
Anne , methinks I see the traces of tears .
If you 've been crying DO own up .
It will restore my self-respect , for I was shedding tears freely before Ruby came along .
I do n't mind being a goose so much if somebody else is goosey , too .
Cake ?
You 'll give me a teeny piece , wo n't you ?
Thank you .
It has the real Avonlea flavor . ''
Ruby , perceiving the Queen 's calendar lying on the table , wanted to know if Anne meant to try for the gold medal .
Anne blushed and admitted she was thinking of it .
`` Oh , that reminds me , '' said Josie , `` Queen 's is to get one of the Avery scholarships after all .
The word came today .
Frank Stockley told me -- his uncle is one of the board of governors , you know .
It will be announced in the Academy tomorrow . ''
An Avery scholarship !
Anne felt her heart beat more quickly , and the horizons of her ambition shifted and broadened as if by magic .
Before Josie had told the news Anne 's highest pinnacle of aspiration had been a teacher 's provincial license , First Class , at the end of the year , and perhaps the medal !
But now in one moment Anne saw herself winning the Avery scholarship , taking an Arts course at Redmond College , and graduating in a gown and mortar board , before the echo of Josie 's words had died away .
For the Avery scholarship was in English , and Anne felt that here her foot was on native heath .
A wealthy manufacturer of New Brunswick had died and left part of his fortune to endow a large number of scholarships to be distributed among the various high schools and academies of the Maritime Provinces , according to their respective standings .
There had been much doubt whether one would be allotted to Queen 's , but the matter was settled at last , and at the end of the year the graduate who made the highest mark in English and English Literature would win the scholarship -- two hundred and fifty dollars a year for four years at Redmond College .
No wonder that Anne went to bed that night with tingling cheeks !
`` I 'll win that scholarship if hard work can do it , '' she resolved .
`` Would n't Matthew be proud if I got to be a B.A. ?
Oh , it 's delightful to have ambitions .
I 'm so glad I have such a lot .
And there never seems to be any end to them -- that 's the best of it .
Just as soon as you attain to one ambition you see another one glittering higher up still .
It does make life so interesting . ''
CHAPTER XXXV .
The Winter at Queen 's Anne 's homesickness wore off , greatly helped in the wearing by her weekend visits home .
As long as the open weather lasted the Avonlea students went out to Carmody on the new branch railway every Friday night .
Diana and several other Avonlea young folks were generally on hand to meet them and they all walked over to Avonlea in a merry party .
Anne thought those Friday evening gypsyings over the autumnal hills in the crisp golden air , with the homelights of Avonlea twinkling beyond , were the best and dearest hours in the whole week .
Gilbert Blythe nearly always walked with Ruby Gillis and carried her satchel for her .
Ruby was a very handsome young lady , now thinking herself quite as grown up as she really was ; she wore her skirts as long as her mother would let her and did her hair up in town , though she had to take it down when she went home .
She had large , bright-blue eyes , a brilliant complexion , and a plump showy figure .
She laughed a great deal , was cheerful and good-tempered , and enjoyed the pleasant things of life frankly .
`` But I should n't think she was the sort of girl Gilbert would like , '' whispered Jane to Anne .
Anne did not think so either , but she would not have said so for the Avery scholarship .
She could not help thinking , too , that it would be very pleasant to have such a friend as Gilbert to jest and chatter with and exchange ideas about books and studies and ambitions .
Gilbert had ambitions , she knew , and Ruby Gillis did not seem the sort of person with whom such could be profitably discussed .
There was no silly sentiment in Anne 's ideas concerning Gilbert .
Boys were to her , when she thought about them at all , merely possible good comrades .
If she and Gilbert had been friends she would not have cared how many other friends he had nor with whom he walked .
She had a genius for friendship ; girl friends she had in plenty ; but she had a vague consciousness that masculine friendship might also be a good thing to round out one 's conceptions of companionship and furnish broader standpoints of judgment and comparison .
Not that Anne could have put her feelings on the matter into just such clear definition .
But she thought that if Gilbert had ever walked home with her from the train , over the crisp fields and along the ferny byways , they might have had many and merry and interesting conversations about the new world that was opening around them and their hopes and ambitions therein .
Gilbert was a clever young fellow , with his own thoughts about things and a determination to get the best out of life and put the best into it .
Ruby Gillis told Jane Andrews that she did n't understand half the things Gilbert Blythe said ; he talked just like Anne Shirley did when she had a thoughtful fit on and for her part she did n't think it any fun to be bothering about books and that sort of thing when you did n't have to .
Frank Stockley had lots more dash and go , but then he was n't half as good-looking as Gilbert and she really could n't decide which she liked best !
In the Academy Anne gradually drew a little circle of friends about her , thoughtful , imaginative , ambitious students like herself .
With the `` rose-red '' girl , Stella Maynard , and the `` dream girl , '' Priscilla Grant , she soon became intimate , finding the latter pale spiritual-looking maiden to be full to the brim of mischief and pranks and fun , while the vivid , black-eyed Stella had a heartful of wistful dreams and fancies , as aerial and rainbow-like as Anne 's own .
After the Christmas holidays the Avonlea students gave up going home on Fridays and settled down to hard work .
By this time all the Queen 's scholars had gravitated into their own places in the ranks and the various classes had assumed distinct and settled shadings of individuality .
Certain facts had become generally accepted .
It was admitted that the medal contestants had practically narrowed down to three -- Gilbert Blythe , Anne Shirley , and Lewis Wilson ; the Avery scholarship was more doubtful , any one of a certain six being a possible winner .
The bronze medal for mathematics was considered as good as won by a fat , funny little up-country boy with a bumpy forehead and a patched coat .
Ruby Gillis was the handsomest girl of the year at the Academy ; in the Second Year classes Stella Maynard carried off the palm for beauty , with small but critical minority in favor of Anne Shirley .
Ethel Marr was admitted by all competent judges to have the most stylish modes of hair-dressing , and Jane Andrews -- plain , plodding , conscientious Jane -- carried off the honors in the domestic science course .
Even Josie Pye attained a certain preeminence as the sharpest-tongued young lady in attendance at Queen 's .
So it may be fairly stated that Miss Stacy 's old pupils held their own in the wider arena of the academical course .
Anne worked hard and steadily .
Her rivalry with Gilbert was as intense as it had ever been in Avonlea school , although it was not known in the class at large , but somehow the bitterness had gone out of it .
Anne no longer wished to win for the sake of defeating Gilbert ; rather , for the proud consciousness of a well-won victory over a worthy foeman .
It would be worth while to win , but she no longer thought life would be insupportable if she did not .
In spite of lessons the students found opportunities for pleasant times .
Anne spent many of her spare hours at Beechwood and generally ate her Sunday dinners there and went to church with Miss Barry .
The latter was , as she admitted , growing old , but her black eyes were not dim nor the vigor of her tongue in the least abated .
But she never sharpened the latter on Anne , who continued to be a prime favorite with the critical old lady .
`` That Anne-girl improves all the time , '' she said .
`` I get tired of other girls -- there is such a provoking and eternal sameness about them .
Anne has as many shades as a rainbow and every shade is the prettiest while it lasts .
I do n't know that she is as amusing as she was when she was a child , but she makes me love her and I like people who make me love them .
It saves me so much trouble in making myself love them . ''
Then , almost before anybody realized it , spring had come ; out in Avonlea the Mayflowers were peeping pinkly out on the sere barrens where snow-wreaths lingered ; and the `` mist of green '' was on the woods and in the valleys .
But in Charlottetown harassed Queen 's students thought and talked only of examinations .
`` It does n't seem possible that the term is nearly over , '' said Anne .
`` Why , last fall it seemed so long to look forward to -- a whole winter of studies and classes .
And here we are , with the exams looming up next week .
Girls , sometimes I feel as if those exams meant everything , but when I look at the big buds swelling on those chestnut trees and the misty blue air at the end of the streets they do n't seem half so important . ''
Jane and Ruby and Josie , who had dropped in , did not take this view of it .
To them the coming examinations were constantly very important indeed -- far more important than chestnut buds or Maytime hazes .
It was all very well for Anne , who was sure of passing at least , to have her moments of belittling them , but when your whole future depended on them -- as the girls truly thought theirs did -- you could not regard them philosophically .
`` I 've lost seven pounds in the last two weeks , '' sighed Jane .
`` It 's no use to say do n't worry .
I WILL worry .
Worrying helps you some -- it seems as if you were doing something when you 're worrying .
It would be dreadful if I failed to get my license after going to Queen 's all winter and spending so much money . '' ''
I do n't care , '' said Josie Pye .
`` If I do n't pass this year I 'm coming back next .
My father can afford to send me .
Anne , Frank Stockley says that Professor Tremaine said Gilbert Blythe was sure to get the medal and that Emily Clay would likely win the Avery scholarship . ''
`` That may make me feel badly tomorrow , Josie , '' laughed Anne , `` but just now I honestly feel that as long as I know the violets are coming out all purple down in the hollow below Green Gables and that little ferns are poking their heads up in Lovers ' Lane , it 's not a great deal of difference whether I win the Avery or not .
I 've done my best and I begin to understand what is meant by the ` joy of the strife . '
Next to trying and winning , the best thing is trying and failing .
Girls , do n't talk about exams !
Look at that arch of pale green sky over those houses and picture to yourself what it must look like over the purply-dark beech-woods back of Avonlea . ''
`` What are you going to wear for commencement , Jane ? ''
asked Ruby practically .
Jane and Josie both answered at once and the chatter drifted into a side eddy of fashions .
But Anne , with her elbows on the window sill , her soft cheek laid against her clasped hands , and her eyes filled with visions , looked out unheedingly across city roof and spire to that glorious dome of sunset sky and wove her dreams of a possible future from the golden tissue of youth 's own optimism .
All the Beyond was hers with its possibilities lurking rosily in the oncoming years -- each year a rose of promise to be woven into an immortal chaplet .
CHAPTER XXXVI .
The Glory and the Dream On the morning when the final results of all the examinations were to be posted on the bulletin board at Queen 's , Anne and Jane walked down the street together .
Jane was smiling and happy ; examinations were over and she was comfortably sure she had made a pass at least ; further considerations troubled Jane not at all ; she had no soaring ambitions and consequently was not affected with the unrest attendant thereon .
For we pay a price for everything we get or take in this world ; and although ambitions are well worth having , they are not to be cheaply won , but exact their dues of work and self-denial , anxiety and discouragement .
Anne was pale and quiet ; in ten more minutes she would know who had won the medal and who the Avery .
Beyond those ten minutes there did not seem , just then , to be anything worth being called Time .
`` Of course you 'll win one of them anyhow , '' said Jane , who could n't understand how the faculty could be so unfair as to order it otherwise .
`` I have not hope of the Avery , '' said Anne .
`` Everybody says Emily Clay will win it .
And I 'm not going to march up to that bulletin board and look at it before everybody .
I have n't the moral courage .
I 'm going straight to the girls ' dressing room .
You must read the announcements and then come and tell me , Jane .
And I implore you in the name of our old friendship to do it as quickly as possible .
If I have failed just say so , without trying to break it gently ; and whatever you do DO N'T sympathize with me .
Promise me this , Jane . ''
Jane promised solemnly ; but , as it happened , there was no necessity for such a promise .
When they went up the entrance steps of Queen 's they found the hall full of boys who were carrying Gilbert Blythe around on their shoulders and yelling at the tops of their voices , `` Hurrah for Blythe , Medalist ! ''
For a moment Anne felt one sickening pang of defeat and disappointment .
So she had failed and Gilbert had won !
Well , Matthew would be sorry -- he had been so sure she would win .
And then !
Somebody called out : `` Three cheers for Miss Shirley , winner of the Avery ! ''
`` Oh , Anne , '' gasped Jane , as they fled to the girls ' dressing room amid hearty cheers .
`` Oh , Anne I 'm so proud !
Is n't it splendid ? ''
And then the girls were around them and Anne was the center of a laughing , congratulating group .
Her shoulders were thumped and her hands shaken vigorously .
She was pushed and pulled and hugged and among it all she managed to whisper to Jane : `` Oh , wo n't Matthew and Marilla be pleased !
I must write the news home right away . ''
Commencement was the next important happening .
The exercises were held in the big assembly hall of the Academy .
Addresses were given , essays read , songs sung , the public award of diplomas , prizes and medals made .
Matthew and Marilla were there , with eyes and ears for only one student on the platform -- a tall girl in pale green , with faintly flushed cheeks and starry eyes , who read the best essay and was pointed out and whispered about as the Avery winner .
`` Reckon you 're glad we kept her , Marilla ? ''
whispered Matthew , speaking for the first time since he had entered the hall , when Anne had finished her essay .
`` It 's not the first time I 've been glad , '' retorted Marilla .
`` You do like to rub things in , Matthew Cuthbert . ''
Miss Barry , who was sitting behind them , leaned forward and poked Marilla in the back with her parasol .
`` Are n't you proud of that Anne-girl ?
I am , '' she said .
Anne went home to Avonlea with Matthew and Marilla that evening .
She had not been home since April and she felt that she could not wait another day .
The apple blossoms were out and the world was fresh and young .
Diana was at Green Gables to meet her .
In her own white room , where Marilla had set a flowering house rose on the window sill , Anne looked about her and drew a long breath of happiness .
`` Oh , Diana , it 's so good to be back again .
It 's so good to see those pointed firs coming out against the pink sky -- and that white orchard and the old Snow Queen .
Is n't the breath of the mint delicious ?
And that tea rose -- why , it 's a song and a hope and a prayer all in one .
And it 's GOOD to see you again , Diana ! ''
`` I thought you liked that Stella Maynard better than me , '' said Diana reproachfully .
`` Josie Pye told me you did .
Josie said you were INFATUATED with her . ''
Anne laughed and pelted Diana with the faded `` June lilies '' of her bouquet .
`` Stella Maynard is the dearest girl in the world except one and you are that one , Diana , '' she said .
`` I love you more than ever -- and I 've so many things to tell you .
But just now I feel as if it were joy enough to sit here and look at you .
I 'm tired , I think -- tired of being studious and ambitious .
I mean to spend at least two hours tomorrow lying out in the orchard grass , thinking of absolutely nothing . ''
`` You 've done splendidly , Anne .
I suppose you wo n't be teaching now that you 've won the Avery ? ''
`` No .
I 'm going to Redmond in September .
Does n't it seem wonderful ?
I 'll have a brand new stock of ambition laid in by that time after three glorious , golden months of vacation .
Jane and Ruby are going to teach .
Is n't it splendid to think we all got through even to Moody Spurgeon and Josie Pye ? ''
`` The Newbridge trustees have offered Jane their school already , '' said Diana .
`` Gilbert Blythe is going to teach , too .
He has to .
His father ca n't afford to send him to college next year , after all , so he means to earn his own way through .
I expect he 'll get the school here if Miss Ames decides to leave . ''
Anne felt a queer little sensation of dismayed surprise .
She had not known this ; she had expected that Gilbert would be going to Redmond also .
What would she do without their inspiring rivalry ?
Would not work , even at a coeducational college with a real degree in prospect , be rather flat without her friend the enemy ?
The next morning at breakfast it suddenly struck Anne that Matthew was not looking well .
Surely he was much grayer than he had been a year before .
`` Marilla , '' she said hesitatingly when he had gone out , `` is Matthew quite well ? ''
`` No , he is n't , '' said Marilla in a troubled tone .
`` He 's had some real bad spells with his heart this spring and he wo n't spare himself a mite .
I 've been real worried about him , but he 's some better this while back and we 've got a good hired man , so I 'm hoping he 'll kind of rest and pick up .
Maybe he will now you 're home .
You always cheer him up . ''
Anne leaned across the table and took Marilla 's face in her hands .
`` You are not looking as well yourself as I 'd like to see you , Marilla .
You look tired .
I 'm afraid you 've been working too hard .
You must take a rest , now that I 'm home .
I 'm just going to take this one day off to visit all the dear old spots and hunt up my old dreams , and then it will be your turn to be lazy while I do the work . ''
Marilla smiled affectionately at her girl .
`` It 's not the work -- it 's my head .
I 've got a pain so often now -- behind my eyes .
Doctor Spencer 's been fussing with glasses , but they do n't do me any good .
There is a distinguished oculist coming to the Island the last of June and the doctor says I must see him .
I guess I 'll have to .
I ca n't read or sew with any comfort now .
Well , Anne , you 've done real well at Queen 's I must say .
To take First Class License in one year and win the Avery scholarship -- well , well , Mrs. Lynde says pride goes before a fall and she does n't believe in the higher education of women at all ; she says it unfits them for woman 's true sphere .
I do n't believe a word of it .
Speaking of Rachel reminds me -- did you hear anything about the Abbey Bank lately , Anne ? ''
`` I heard it was shaky , '' answered Anne .
`` Why ? ''
`` That is what Rachel said .
She was up here one day last week and said there was some talk about it .
Matthew felt real worried .
All we have saved is in that bank -- every penny .
I wanted Matthew to put it in the Savings Bank in the first place , but old Mr. Abbey was a great friend of father 's and he 'd always banked with him .
Matthew said any bank with him at the head of it was good enough for anybody . ''
`` I think he has only been its nominal head for many years , '' said Anne .
`` He is a very old man ; his nephews are really at the head of the institution . ''
`` Well , when Rachel told us that , I wanted Matthew to draw our money right out and he said he 'd think of it .
But Mr. Russell told him yesterday that the bank was all right . ''
Anne had her good day in the companionship of the outdoor world .
She never forgot that day ; it was so bright and golden and fair , so free from shadow and so lavish of blossom .
Anne spent some of its rich hours in the orchard ; she went to the Dryad 's Bubble and Willowmere and Violet Vale ; she called at the manse and had a satisfying talk with Mrs. Allan ; and finally in the evening she went with Matthew for the cows , through Lovers ' Lane to the back pasture .
The woods were all gloried through with sunset and the warm splendor of it streamed down through the hill gaps in the west .
Matthew walked slowly with bent head ; Anne , tall and erect , suited her springing step to his .
`` You 've been working too hard today , Matthew , '' she said reproachfully .
`` Why wo n't you take things easier ? ''
`` Well now , I ca n't seem to , '' said Matthew , as he opened the yard gate to let the cows through .
`` It 's only that I 'm getting old , Anne , and keep forgetting it .
Well , well , I 've always worked pretty hard and I 'd rather drop in harness . ''
`` If I had been the boy you sent for , '' said Anne wistfully , `` I 'd be able to help you so much now and spare you in a hundred ways .
I could find it in my heart to wish I had been , just for that . ''
`` Well now , I 'd rather have you than a dozen boys , Anne , '' said Matthew patting her hand .
`` Just mind you that -- rather than a dozen boys .
Well now , I guess it was n't a boy that took the Avery scholarship , was it ?
It was a girl -- my girl -- my girl that I 'm proud of . ''
He smiled his shy smile at her as he went into the yard .
Anne took the memory of it with her when she went to her room that night and sat for a long while at her open window , thinking of the past and dreaming of the future .
Outside the Snow Queen was mistily white in the moonshine ; the frogs were singing in the marsh beyond Orchard Slope .
Anne always remembered the silvery , peaceful beauty and fragrant calm of that night .
It was the last night before sorrow touched her life ; and no life is ever quite the same again when once that cold , sanctifying touch has been laid upon it .
CHAPTER XXXVII .
The Reaper Whose Name Is Death `` Matthew -- Matthew -- what is the matter ?
Matthew , are you sick ? ''
It was Marilla who spoke , alarm in every jerky word .
Anne came through the hall , her hands full of white narcissus , -- it was long before Anne could love the sight or odor of white narcissus again , -- in time to hear her and to see Matthew standing in the porch doorway , a folded paper in his hand , and his face strangely drawn and gray .
Anne dropped her flowers and sprang across the kitchen to him at the same moment as Marilla .
They were both too late ; before they could reach him Matthew had fallen across the threshold .
`` He 's fainted , '' gasped Marilla .
`` Anne , run for Martin -- quick , quick !
He 's at the barn . ''
Martin , the hired man , who had just driven home from the post office , started at once for the doctor , calling at Orchard Slope on his way to send Mr. and Mrs. Barry over .
Mrs. Lynde , who was there on an errand , came too .
They found Anne and Marilla distractedly trying to restore Matthew to consciousness .
Mrs. Lynde pushed them gently aside , tried his pulse , and then laid her ear over his heart .
She looked at their anxious faces sorrowfully and the tears came into her eyes .
`` Oh , Marilla , '' she said gravely .
`` I do n't think -- we can do anything for him . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde , you do n't think -- you ca n't think Matthew is -- is -- '' Anne could not say the dreadful word ; she turned sick and pallid .
`` Child , yes , I 'm afraid of it .
Look at his face .
When you 've seen that look as often as I have you 'll know what it means . ''
Anne looked at the still face and there beheld the seal of the Great Presence .
When the doctor came he said that death had been instantaneous and probably painless , caused in all likelihood by some sudden shock .
The secret of the shock was discovered to be in the paper Matthew had held and which Martin had brought from the office that morning .
It contained an account of the failure of the Abbey Bank .
The news spread quickly through Avonlea , and all day friends and neighbors thronged Green Gables and came and went on errands of kindness for the dead and living .
For the first time shy , quiet Matthew Cuthbert was a person of central importance ; the white majesty of death had fallen on him and set him apart as one crowned .
When the calm night came softly down over Green Gables the old house was hushed and tranquil .
In the parlor lay Matthew Cuthbert in his coffin , his long gray hair framing his placid face on which there was a little kindly smile as if he but slept , dreaming pleasant dreams .
There were flowers about him -- sweet old-fashioned flowers which his mother had planted in the homestead garden in her bridal days and for which Matthew had always had a secret , wordless love .
Anne had gathered them and brought them to him , her anguished , tearless eyes burning in her white face .
It was the last thing she could do for him .
The Barrys and Mrs. Lynde stayed with them that night .
Diana , going to the east gable , where Anne was standing at her window , said gently : `` Anne dear , would you like to have me sleep with you tonight ? ''
`` Thank you , Diana . ''
Anne looked earnestly into her friend 's face .
`` I think you wo n't misunderstand me when I say I want to be alone .
I 'm not afraid .
I have n't been alone one minute since it happened -- and I want to be .
I want to be quite silent and quiet and try to realize it .
I ca n't realize it .
Half the time it seems to me that Matthew ca n't be dead ; and the other half it seems as if he must have been dead for a long time and I 've had this horrible dull ache ever since . ''
Diana did not quite understand .
Marilla 's impassioned grief , breaking all the bounds of natural reserve and lifelong habit in its stormy rush , she could comprehend better than Anne 's tearless agony .
But she went away kindly , leaving Anne alone to keep her first vigil with sorrow .
Anne hoped that the tears would come in solitude .
It seemed to her a terrible thing that she could not shed a tear for Matthew , whom she had loved so much and who had been so kind to her , Matthew who had walked with her last evening at sunset and was now lying in the dim room below with that awful peace on his brow .
But no tears came at first , even when she knelt by her window in the darkness and prayed , looking up to the stars beyond the hills -- no tears , only the same horrible dull ache of misery that kept on aching until she fell asleep , worn out with the day 's pain and excitement .
In the night she awakened , with the stillness and the darkness about her , and the recollection of the day came over her like a wave of sorrow .
She could see Matthew 's face smiling at her as he had smiled when they parted at the gate that last evening -- she could hear his voice saying , `` My girl -- my girl that I 'm proud of . ''
Then the tears came and Anne wept her heart out .
Marilla heard her and crept in to comfort her .
`` There -- there -- do n't cry so , dearie .
It ca n't bring him back .
It -- it -- is n't right to cry so .
I knew that today , but I could n't help it then .
He 'd always been such a good , kind brother to me -- but God knows best . ''
`` Oh , just let me cry , Marilla , '' sobbed Anne .
`` The tears do n't hurt me like that ache did .
Stay here for a little while with me and keep your arm round me -- so .
I could n't have Diana stay , she 's good and kind and sweet -- but it 's not her sorrow -- she 's outside of it and she could n't come close enough to my heart to help me .
It 's our sorrow -- yours and mine .
Oh , Marilla , what will we do without him ? ''
`` We 've got each other , Anne .
I do n't know what I 'd do if you were n't here -- if you 'd never come .
Oh , Anne , I know I 've been kind of strict and harsh with you maybe -- but you must n't think I did n't love you as well as Matthew did , for all that .
I want to tell you now when I can .
It 's never been easy for me to say things out of my heart , but at times like this it 's easier .
I love you as dear as if you were my own flesh and blood and you 've been my joy and comfort ever since you came to Green Gables . ''
Two days afterwards they carried Matthew Cuthbert over his homestead threshold and away from the fields he had tilled and the orchards he had loved and the trees he had planted ; and then Avonlea settled back to its usual placidity and even at Green Gables affairs slipped into their old groove and work was done and duties fulfilled with regularity as before , although always with the aching sense of `` loss in all familiar things . ''
Anne , new to grief , thought it almost sad that it could be so -- that they COULD go on in the old way without Matthew .
She felt something like shame and remorse when she discovered that the sunrises behind the firs and the pale pink buds opening in the garden gave her the old inrush of gladness when she saw them -- that Diana 's visits were pleasant to her and that Diana 's merry words and ways moved her to laughter and smiles -- that , in brief , the beautiful world of blossom and love and friendship had lost none of its power to please her fancy and thrill her heart , that life still called to her with many insistent voices .
`` It seems like disloyalty to Matthew , somehow , to find pleasure in these things now that he has gone , '' she said wistfully to Mrs. Allan one evening when they were together in the manse garden .
`` I miss him so much -- all the time -- and yet , Mrs. Allan , the world and life seem very beautiful and interesting to me for all .
Today Diana said something funny and I found myself laughing .
I thought when it happened I could never laugh again .
And it somehow seems as if I ought n't to . ''
`` When Matthew was here he liked to hear you laugh and he liked to know that you found pleasure in the pleasant things around you , '' said Mrs. Allan gently .
`` He is just away now ; and he likes to know it just the same .
I am sure we should not shut our hearts against the healing influences that nature offers us .
But I can understand your feeling .
I think we all experience the same thing .
We resent the thought that anything can please us when someone we love is no longer here to share the pleasure with us , and we almost feel as if we were unfaithful to our sorrow when we find our interest in life returning to us . ''
`` I was down to the graveyard to plant a rosebush on Matthew 's grave this afternoon , '' said Anne dreamily .
`` I took a slip of the little white Scotch rosebush his mother brought out from Scotland long ago ; Matthew always liked those roses the best -- they were so small and sweet on their thorny stems .
It made me feel glad that I could plant it by his grave -- as if I were doing something that must please him in taking it there to be near him .
I hope he has roses like them in heaven .
Perhaps the souls of all those little white roses that he has loved so many summers were all there to meet him .
I must go home now .
Marilla is all alone and she gets lonely at twilight . ''
`` She will be lonelier still , I fear , when you go away again to college , '' said Mrs. Allan .
Anne did not reply ; she said good night and went slowly back to green Gables .
Marilla was sitting on the front door-steps and Anne sat down beside her .
The door was open behind them , held back by a big pink conch shell with hints of sea sunsets in its smooth inner convolutions .
Anne gathered some sprays of pale-yellow honeysuckle and put them in her hair .
She liked the delicious hint of fragrance , as some aerial benediction , above her every time she moved .
`` Doctor Spencer was here while you were away , '' Marilla said .
`` He says that the specialist will be in town tomorrow and he insists that I must go in and have my eyes examined .
I suppose I 'd better go and have it over .
I 'll be more than thankful if the man can give me the right kind of glasses to suit my eyes .
You wo n't mind staying here alone while I 'm away , will you ?
Martin will have to drive me in and there 's ironing and baking to do . ''
`` I shall be all right .
Diana will come over for company for me .
I shall attend to the ironing and baking beautifully -- you need n't fear that I 'll starch the handkerchiefs or flavor the cake with liniment . ''
Marilla laughed .
`` What a girl you were for making mistakes in them days , Anne .
You were always getting into scrapes .
I did use to think you were possessed .
Do you mind the time you dyed your hair ? ''
`` Yes , indeed .
I shall never forget it , '' smiled Anne , touching the heavy braid of hair that was wound about her shapely head .
`` I laugh a little now sometimes when I think what a worry my hair used to be to me -- but I do n't laugh MUCH , because it was a very real trouble then .
I did suffer terribly over my hair and my freckles .
My freckles are really gone ; and people are nice enough to tell me my hair is auburn now -- all but Josie Pye .
She informed me yesterday that she really thought it was redder than ever , or at least my black dress made it look redder , and she asked me if people who had red hair ever got used to having it .
Marilla , I 've almost decided to give up trying to like Josie Pye .
I 've made what I would once have called a heroic effort to like her , but Josie Pye wo n't BE liked . ''
`` Josie is a Pye , '' said Marilla sharply , `` so she ca n't help being disagreeable .
I suppose people of that kind serve some useful purpose in society , but I must say I do n't know what it is any more than I know the use of thistles .
Is Josie going to teach ? ''
`` No , she is going back to Queen 's next year .
So are Moody Spurgeon and Charlie Sloane .
Jane and Ruby are going to teach and they have both got schools -- Jane at Newbridge and Ruby at some place up west . ''
`` Gilbert Blythe is going to teach too , is n't he ? ''
`` Yes '' -- briefly .
`` What a nice-looking fellow he is , '' said Marilla absently .
`` I saw him in church last Sunday and he seemed so tall and manly .
He looks a lot like his father did at the same age .
John Blythe was a nice boy .
We used to be real good friends , he and I. People called him my beau . ''
Anne looked up with swift interest .
`` Oh , Marilla -- and what happened ?
-- why did n't you -- '' `` We had a quarrel .
I would n't forgive him when he asked me to .
I meant to , after awhile -- but I was sulky and angry and I wanted to punish him first .
He never came back -- the Blythes were all mighty independent .
But I always felt -- rather sorry .
I 've always kind of wished I 'd forgiven him when I had the chance . ''
`` So you 've had a bit of romance in your life , too , '' said Anne softly .
`` Yes , I suppose you might call it that .
You would n't think so to look at me , would you ?
But you never can tell about people from their outsides .
Everybody has forgot about me and John .
I 'd forgotten myself .
But it all came back to me when I saw Gilbert last Sunday . ''
CHAPTER XXXVIII .
The Bend in the road Marilla went to town the next day and returned in the evening .
Anne had gone over to Orchard Slope with Diana and came back to find Marilla in the kitchen , sitting by the table with her head leaning on her hand .
Something in her dejected attitude struck a chill to Anne 's heart .
She had never seen Marilla sit limply inert like that .
`` Are you very tired , Marilla ? ''
`` Yes -- no -- I do n't know , '' said Marilla wearily , looking up .
`` I suppose I am tired but I have n't thought about it .
It 's not that . ''
`` Did you see the oculist ?
What did he say ? ''
asked Anne anxiously .
`` Yes , I saw him .
He examined my eyes .
He says that if I give up all reading and sewing entirely and any kind of work that strains the eyes , and if I 'm careful not to cry , and if I wear the glasses he 's given me he thinks my eyes may not get any worse and my headaches will be cured .
But if I do n't he says I 'll certainly be stone-blind in six months .
Blind !
Anne , just think of it ! ''
For a minute Anne , after her first quick exclamation of dismay , was silent .
It seemed to her that she could NOT speak .
Then she said bravely , but with a catch in her voice : `` Marilla , DO N'T think of it .
You know he has given you hope .
If you are careful you wo n't lose your sight altogether ; and if his glasses cure your headaches it will be a great thing . ''
`` I do n't call it much hope , '' said Marilla bitterly .
`` What am I to live for if I ca n't read or sew or do anything like that ?
I might as well be blind -- or dead .
And as for crying , I ca n't help that when I get lonesome .
But there , it 's no good talking about it .
If you 'll get me a cup of tea I 'll be thankful .
I 'm about done out .
Do n't say anything about this to any one for a spell yet , anyway .
I ca n't bear that folks should come here to question and sympathize and talk about it . ''
When Marilla had eaten her lunch Anne persuaded her to go to bed .
Then Anne went herself to the east gable and sat down by her window in the darkness alone with her tears and her heaviness of heart .
How sadly things had changed since she had sat there the night after coming home !
Then she had been full of hope and joy and the future had looked rosy with promise .
Anne felt as if she had lived years since then , but before she went to bed there was a smile on her lips and peace in her heart .
She had looked her duty courageously in the face and found it a friend -- as duty ever is when we meet it frankly .
One afternoon a few days later Marilla came slowly in from the front yard where she had been talking to a caller -- a man whom Anne knew by sight as Sadler from Carmody .
Anne wondered what he could have been saying to bring that look to Marilla 's face .
`` What did Mr. Sadler want , Marilla ? ''
Marilla sat down by the window and looked at Anne .
There were tears in her eyes in defiance of the oculist 's prohibition and her voice broke as she said : `` He heard that I was going to sell Green Gables and he wants to buy it . ''
`` Buy it !
Buy Green Gables ? ''
Anne wondered if she had heard aright .
`` Oh , Marilla , you do n't mean to sell Green Gables ! ''
`` Anne , I do n't know what else is to be done .
I 've thought it all over .
If my eyes were strong I could stay here and make out to look after things and manage , with a good hired man .
But as it is I ca n't .
I may lose my sight altogether ; and anyway I 'll not be fit to run things .
Oh , I never thought I 'd live to see the day when I 'd have to sell my home .
But things would only go behind worse and worse all the time , till nobody would want to buy it .
Every cent of our money went in that bank ; and there 's some notes Matthew gave last fall to pay .
Mrs. Lynde advises me to sell the farm and board somewhere -- with her I suppose .
It wo n't bring much -- it 's small and the buildings are old .
But it 'll be enough for me to live on I reckon .
I 'm thankful you 're provided for with that scholarship , Anne .
I 'm sorry you wo n't have a home to come to in your vacations , that 's all , but I suppose you 'll manage somehow . ''
Marilla broke down and wept bitterly .
`` You must n't sell Green Gables , '' said Anne resolutely .
`` Oh , Anne , I wish I did n't have to .
But you can see for yourself .
I ca n't stay here alone .
I 'd go crazy with trouble and loneliness .
And my sight would go -- I know it would . ''
`` You wo n't have to stay here alone , Marilla .
I 'll be with you .
I 'm not going to Redmond . ''
`` Not going to Redmond ! ''
Marilla lifted her worn face from her hands and looked at Anne .
`` Why , what do you mean ? ''
`` Just what I say .
I 'm not going to take the scholarship .
I decided so the night after you came home from town .
You surely do n't think I could leave you alone in your trouble , Marilla , after all you 've done for me .
I 've been thinking and planning .
Let me tell you my plans .
Mr. Barry wants to rent the farm for next year .
So you wo n't have any bother over that .
And I 'm going to teach .
I 've applied for the school here -- but I do n't expect to get it for I understand the trustees have promised it to Gilbert Blythe .
But I can have the Carmody school -- Mr. Blair told me so last night at the store .
Of course that wo n't be quite as nice or convenient as if I had the Avonlea school .
But I can board home and drive myself over to Carmody and back , in the warm weather at least .
And even in winter I can come home Fridays .
We 'll keep a horse for that .
Oh , I have it all planned out , Marilla .
And I 'll read to you and keep you cheered up .
You sha 'n' t be dull or lonesome .
And we 'll be real cozy and happy here together , you and I. '' Marilla had listened like a woman in a dream .
`` Oh , Anne , I could get on real well if you were here , I know .
But I ca n't let you sacrifice yourself so for me .
It would be terrible . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
Anne laughed merrily .
`` There is no sacrifice .
Nothing could be worse than giving up Green Gables -- nothing could hurt me more .
We must keep the dear old place .
My mind is quite made up , Marilla .
I 'm NOT going to Redmond ; and I AM going to stay here and teach .
Do n't you worry about me a bit . ''
`` But your ambitions -- and -- '' `` I 'm just as ambitious as ever .
Only , I 've changed the object of my ambitions .
I 'm going to be a good teacher -- and I 'm going to save your eyesight .
Besides , I mean to study at home here and take a little college course all by myself .
Oh , I 've dozens of plans , Marilla .
I 've been thinking them out for a week .
I shall give life here my best , and I believe it will give its best to me in return .
When I left Queen 's my future seemed to stretch out before me like a straight road .
I thought I could see along it for many a milestone .
Now there is a bend in it .
I do n't know what lies around the bend , but I 'm going to believe that the best does .
It has a fascination of its own , that bend , Marilla .
I wonder how the road beyond it goes -- what there is of green glory and soft , checkered light and shadows -- what new landscapes -- what new beauties -- what curves and hills and valleys further on . ''
`` I do n't feel as if I ought to let you give it up , '' said Marilla , referring to the scholarship .
`` But you ca n't prevent me .
I 'm sixteen and a half , ` obstinate as a mule , ' as Mrs. Lynde once told me , '' laughed Anne .
`` Oh , Marilla , do n't you go pitying me .
I do n't like to be pitied , and there is no need for it .
I 'm heart glad over the very thought of staying at dear Green Gables .
Nobody could love it as you and I do -- so we must keep it . ''
`` You blessed girl ! ''
said Marilla , yielding .
`` I feel as if you 'd given me new life .
I guess I ought to stick out and make you go to college -- but I know I ca n't , so I ai n't going to try .
I 'll make it up to you though , Anne . ''
When it became noised abroad in Avonlea that Anne Shirley had given up the idea of going to college and intended to stay home and teach there was a good deal of discussion over it .
Most of the good folks , not knowing about Marilla 's eyes , thought she was foolish .
Mrs. Allan did not .
She told Anne so in approving words that brought tears of pleasure to the girl 's eyes .
Neither did good Mrs. Lynde .
She came up one evening and found Anne and Marilla sitting at the front door in the warm , scented summer dusk .
They liked to sit there when the twilight came down and the white moths flew about in the garden and the odor of mint filled the dewy air .
Mrs. Rachel deposited her substantial person upon the stone bench by the door , behind which grew a row of tall pink and yellow hollyhocks , with a long breath of mingled weariness and relief .
`` I declare I 'm getting glad to sit down .
I 've been on my feet all day , and two hundred pounds is a good bit for two feet to carry round .
It 's a great blessing not to be fat , Marilla .
I hope you appreciate it .
Well , Anne , I hear you 've given up your notion of going to college .
I was real glad to hear it .
You 've got as much education now as a woman can be comfortable with .
I do n't believe in girls going to college with the men and cramming their heads full of Latin and Greek and all that nonsense . ''
`` But I 'm going to study Latin and Greek just the same , Mrs. Lynde , '' said Anne laughing .
`` I 'm going to take my Arts course right here at Green Gables , and study everything that I would at college . ''
Mrs. Lynde lifted her hands in holy horror .
`` Anne Shirley , you 'll kill yourself . ''
`` Not a bit of it .
I shall thrive on it .
Oh , I 'm not going to overdo things .
As ` Josiah Allen 's wife , ' says , I shall be ` mejum ' .
But I 'll have lots of spare time in the long winter evenings , and I 've no vocation for fancy work .
I 'm going to teach over at Carmody , you know . ''
`` I do n't know it .
I guess you 're going to teach right here in Avonlea .
The trustees have decided to give you the school . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde ! ''
cried Anne , springing to her feet in her surprise .
`` Why , I thought they had promised it to Gilbert Blythe ! ''
`` So they did .
But as soon as Gilbert heard that you had applied for it he went to them -- they had a business meeting at the school last night , you know -- and told them that he withdrew his application , and suggested that they accept yours .
He said he was going to teach at White Sands .
Of course he knew how much you wanted to stay with Marilla , and I must say I think it was real kind and thoughtful in him , that 's what .
Real self-sacrificing , too , for he 'll have his board to pay at White Sands , and everybody knows he 's got to earn his own way through college .
So the trustees decided to take you .
I was tickled to death when Thomas came home and told me . ''
`` I do n't feel that I ought to take it , '' murmured Anne .
`` I mean -- I do n't think I ought to let Gilbert make such a sacrifice for -- for me . ''
`` I guess you ca n't prevent him now .
He 's signed papers with the White Sands trustees .
So it would n't do him any good now if you were to refuse .
Of course you 'll take the school .
You 'll get along all right , now that there are no Pyes going .
Josie was the last of them , and a good thing she was , that 's what .
There 's been some Pye or other going to Avonlea school for the last twenty years , and I guess their mission in life was to keep school teachers reminded that earth is n't their home .
Bless my heart !
What does all that winking and blinking at the Barry gable mean ? ''
`` Diana is signaling for me to go over , '' laughed Anne .
`` You know we keep up the old custom .
Excuse me while I run over and see what she wants . ''
Anne ran down the clover slope like a deer , and disappeared in the firry shadows of the Haunted Wood .
Mrs. Lynde looked after her indulgently .
`` There 's a good deal of the child about her yet in some ways . ''
`` There 's a good deal more of the woman about her in others , '' retorted Marilla , with a momentary return of her old crispness .
But crispness was no longer Marilla 's distinguishing characteristic .
As Mrs. Lynde told her Thomas that night .
`` Marilla Cuthbert has got MELLOW .
That 's what . ''
Anne went to the little Avonlea graveyard the next evening to put fresh flowers on Matthew 's grave and water the Scotch rosebush .
She lingered there until dusk , liking the peace and calm of the little place , with its poplars whose rustle was like low , friendly speech , and its whispering grasses growing at will among the graves .
When she finally left it and walked down the long hill that sloped to the Lake of Shining Waters it was past sunset and all Avonlea lay before her in a dreamlike afterlight -- `` a haunt of ancient peace . ''
There was a freshness in the air as of a wind that had blown over honey-sweet fields of clover .
Home lights twinkled out here and there among the homestead trees .
Beyond lay the sea , misty and purple , with its haunting , unceasing murmur .
The west was a glory of soft mingled hues , and the pond reflected them all in still softer shadings .
The beauty of it all thrilled Anne 's heart , and she gratefully opened the gates of her soul to it .
`` Dear old world , '' she murmured , `` you are very lovely , and I am glad to be alive in you . ''
Halfway down the hill a tall lad came whistling out of a gate before the Blythe homestead .
It was Gilbert , and the whistle died on his lips as he recognized Anne .
He lifted his cap courteously , but he would have passed on in silence , if Anne had not stopped and held out her hand .
`` Gilbert , '' she said , with scarlet cheeks , `` I want to thank you for giving up the school for me .
It was very good of you -- and I want you to know that I appreciate it . ''
Gilbert took the offered hand eagerly .
`` It was n't particularly good of me at all , Anne .
I was pleased to be able to do you some small service .
Are we going to be friends after this ?
Have you really forgiven me my old fault ? ''
Anne laughed and tried unsuccessfully to withdraw her hand .
`` I forgave you that day by the pond landing , although I did n't know it .
What a stubborn little goose I was .
I 've been -- I may as well make a complete confession -- I 've been sorry ever since . ''
`` We are going to be the best of friends , '' said Gilbert , jubilantly .
`` We were born to be good friends , Anne .
You 've thwarted destiny enough .
I know we can help each other in many ways .
You are going to keep up your studies , are n't you ?
So am I. Come , I 'm going to walk home with you . ''
Marilla looked curiously at Anne when the latter entered the kitchen .
`` Who was that came up the lane with you , Anne ? ''
`` Gilbert Blythe , '' answered Anne , vexed to find herself blushing .
`` I met him on Barry 's hill . ''
`` I did n't think you and Gilbert Blythe were such good friends that you 'd stand for half an hour at the gate talking to him , '' said Marilla with a dry smile .
`` We have n't been -- we 've been good enemies .
But we have decided that it will be much more sensible to be good friends in the future .
Were we really there half an hour ?
It seemed just a few minutes .
But , you see , we have five years ' lost conversations to catch up with , Marilla . ''
Anne sat long at her window that night companioned by a glad content .
The wind purred softly in the cherry boughs , and the mint breaths came up to her .
The stars twinkled over the pointed firs in the hollow and Diana 's light gleamed through the old gap .
Anne 's horizons had closed in since the night she had sat there after coming home from Queen 's ; but if the path set before her feet was to be narrow she knew that flowers of quiet happiness would bloom along it .
The joy of sincere work and worthy aspiration and congenial friendship were to be hers ; nothing could rob her of her birthright of fancy or her ideal world of dreams .
And there was always the bend in the road ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Anne_Of_The_Island.txt.out
Chapter I The Shadow of Change `` Harvest is ended and summer is gone , '' quoted Anne Shirley , gazing across the shorn fields dreamily .
She and Diana Barry had been picking apples in the Green Gables orchard , but were now resting from their labors in a sunny corner , where airy fleets of thistledown drifted by on the wings of a wind that was still summer-sweet with the incense of ferns in the Haunted Wood .
But everything in the landscape around them spoke of autumn .
The sea was roaring hollowly in the distance , the fields were bare and sere , scarfed with golden rod , the brook valley below Green Gables overflowed with asters of ethereal purple , and the Lake of Shining Waters was blue -- blue -- blue ; not the changeful blue of spring , nor the pale azure of summer , but a clear , steadfast , serene blue , as if the water were past all moods and tenses of emotion and had settled down to a tranquility unbroken by fickle dreams .
`` It has been a nice summer , '' said Diana , twisting the new ring on her left hand with a smile .
`` And Miss Lavendar 's wedding seemed to come as a sort of crown to it .
I suppose Mr. and Mrs. Irving are on the Pacific coast now . ''
`` It seems to me they have been gone long enough to go around the world , '' sighed Anne .
`` I ca n't believe it is only a week since they were married .
Everything has changed .
Miss Lavendar and Mr. and Mrs. Allan gone -- how lonely the manse looks with the shutters all closed !
I went past it last night , and it made me feel as if everybody in it had died . ''
`` We 'll never get another minister as nice as Mr. Allan , '' said Diana , with gloomy conviction .
`` I suppose we 'll have all kinds of supplies this winter , and half the Sundays no preaching at all .
And you and Gilbert gone -- it will be awfully dull . ''
`` Fred will be here , '' insinuated Anne slyly .
`` When is Mrs. Lynde going to move up ? ''
asked Diana , as if she had not heard Anne 's remark .
`` Tomorrow .
I 'm glad she 's coming -- but it will be another change .
Marilla and I cleared everything out of the spare room yesterday .
Do you know , I hated to do it ?
Of course , it was silly -- but it did seem as if we were committing sacrilege .
That old spare room has always seemed like a shrine to me .
When I was a child I thought it the most wonderful apartment in the world .
You remember what a consuming desire I had to sleep in a spare room bed -- but not the Green Gables spare room .
Oh , no , never there !
It would have been too terrible -- I could n't have slept a wink from awe .
I never WALKED through that room when Marilla sent me in on an errand -- no , indeed , I tiptoed through it and held my breath , as if I were in church , and felt relieved when I got out of it .
The pictures of George Whitefield and the Duke of Wellington hung there , one on each side of the mirror , and frowned so sternly at me all the time I was in , especially if I dared peep in the mirror , which was the only one in the house that did n't twist my face a little .
I always wondered how Marilla dared houseclean that room .
And now it 's not only cleaned but stripped bare .
George Whitefield and the Duke have been relegated to the upstairs hall .
` So passes the glory of this world , ' '' concluded Anne , with a laugh in which there was a little note of regret .
It is never pleasant to have our old shrines desecrated , even when we have outgrown them .
`` I 'll be so lonesome when you go , '' moaned Diana for the hundredth time .
`` And to think you go next week ! ''
`` But we 're together still , '' said Anne cheerily .
`` We must n't let next week rob us of this week 's joy .
I hate the thought of going myself -- home and I are such good friends .
Talk of being lonesome !
It 's I who should groan .
YOU 'LL be here with any number of your old friends -- AND Fred !
While I shall be alone among strangers , not knowing a soul ! ''
`` EXCEPT Gilbert -- AND Charlie Sloane , '' said Diana , imitating Anne 's italics and slyness .
`` Charlie Sloane will be a great comfort , of course , '' agreed Anne sarcastically ; whereupon both those irresponsible damsels laughed .
Diana knew exactly what Anne thought of Charlie Sloane ; but , despite sundry confidential talks , she did not know just what Anne thought of Gilbert Blythe .
To be sure , Anne herself did not know that .
`` The boys may be boarding at the other end of Kingsport , for all I know , '' Anne went on .
`` I am glad I 'm going to Redmond , and I am sure I shall like it after a while .
But for the first few weeks I know I wo n't .
I sha n't even have the comfort of looking forward to the weekend visit home , as I had when I went to Queen 's .
Christmas will seem like a thousand years away . ''
`` Everything is changing -- or going to change , '' said Diana sadly .
`` I have a feeling that things will never be the same again , Anne . ''
`` We have come to a parting of the ways , I suppose , '' said Anne thoughtfully .
`` We had to come to it .
Do you think , Diana , that being grown-up is really as nice as we used to imagine it would be when we were children ? ''
`` I do n't know -- there are SOME nice things about it , '' answered Diana , again caressing her ring with that little smile which always had the effect of making Anne feel suddenly left out and inexperienced .
`` But there are so many puzzling things , too .
Sometimes I feel as if being grown-up just frightened me -- and then I would give anything to be a little girl again . ''
`` I suppose we 'll get used to being grownup in time , '' said Anne cheerfully .
`` There wo n't be so many unexpected things about it by and by -- though , after all , I fancy it 's the unexpected things that give spice to life .
We 're eighteen , Diana .
In two more years we 'll be twenty .
When I was ten I thought twenty was a green old age .
In no time you 'll be a staid , middle-aged matron , and I shall be nice , old maid Aunt Anne , coming to visit you on vacations .
You 'll always keep a corner for me , wo n't you , Di darling ?
Not the spare room , of course -- old maids ca n't aspire to spare rooms , and I shall be as ` umble as Uriah Heep , and quite content with a little over-the-porch or off-the-parlor cubby hole . ''
`` What nonsense you do talk , Anne , '' laughed Diana .
`` You 'll marry somebody splendid and handsome and rich -- and no spare room in Avonlea will be half gorgeous enough for you -- and you 'll turn up your nose at all the friends of your youth . ''
`` That would be a pity ; my nose is quite nice , but I fear turning it up would spoil it , '' said Anne , patting that shapely organ .
`` I have n't so many good features that I could afford to spoil those I have ; so , even if I should marry the King of the Cannibal Islands , I promise you I wo n't turn up my nose at you , Diana . ''
With another gay laugh the girls separated , Diana to return to Orchard Slope , Anne to walk to the Post Office .
She found a letter awaiting her there , and when Gilbert Blythe overtook her on the bridge over the Lake of Shining Waters she was sparkling with the excitement of it .
`` Priscilla Grant is going to Redmond , too , '' she exclaimed .
`` Is n't that splendid ?
I hoped she would , but she did n't think her father would consent .
He has , however , and we 're to board together .
I feel that I can face an army with banners -- or all the professors of Redmond in one fell phalanx -- with a chum like Priscilla by my side . ''
`` I think we 'll like Kingsport , '' said Gilbert .
`` It 's a nice old burg , they tell me , and has the finest natural park in the world .
I 've heard that the scenery in it is magnificent . ''
`` I wonder if it will be -- can be -- any more beautiful than this , '' murmured Anne , looking around her with the loving , enraptured eyes of those to whom `` home '' must always be the loveliest spot in the world , no matter what fairer lands may lie under alien stars .
They were leaning on the bridge of the old pond , drinking deep of the enchantment of the dusk , just at the spot where Anne had climbed from her sinking Dory on the day Elaine floated down to Camelot .
The fine , empurpling dye of sunset still stained the western skies , but the moon was rising and the water lay like a great , silver dream in her light .
Remembrance wove a sweet and subtle spell over the two young creatures .
`` You are very quiet , Anne , '' said Gilbert at last .
`` I 'm afraid to speak or move for fear all this wonderful beauty will vanish just like a broken silence , '' breathed Anne .
Gilbert suddenly laid his hand over the slender white one lying on the rail of the bridge .
His hazel eyes deepened into darkness , his still boyish lips opened to say something of the dream and hope that thrilled his soul .
But Anne snatched her hand away and turned quickly .
The spell of the dusk was broken for her .
`` I must go home , '' she exclaimed , with a rather overdone carelessness .
`` Marilla had a headache this afternoon , and I 'm sure the twins will be in some dreadful mischief by this time .
I really should n't have stayed away so long . ''
She chattered ceaselessly and inconsequently until they reached the Green Gables lane .
Poor Gilbert hardly had a chance to get a word in edgewise .
Anne felt rather relieved when they parted .
There had been a new , secret self-consciousness in her heart with regard to Gilbert , ever since that fleeting moment of revelation in the garden of Echo Lodge .
Something alien had intruded into the old , perfect , school-day comradeship -- something that threatened to mar it .
`` I never felt glad to see Gilbert go before , '' she thought , half-resentfully , half-sorrowfully , as she walked alone up the lane .
`` Our friendship will be spoiled if he goes on with this nonsense .
It must n't be spoiled -- I wo n't let it .
Oh , WHY ca n't boys be just sensible ! ''
Anne had an uneasy doubt that it was not strictly `` sensible '' that she should still feel on her hand the warm pressure of Gilbert 's , as distinctly as she had felt it for the swift second his had rested there ; and still less sensible that the sensation was far from being an unpleasant one -- very different from that which had attended a similar demonstration on Charlie Sloane 's part , when she had been sitting out a dance with him at a White Sands party three nights before .
Anne shivered over the disagreeable recollection .
But all problems connected with infatuated swains vanished from her mind when she entered the homely , unsentimental atmosphere of the Green Gables kitchen where an eight-year-old boy was crying grievously on the sofa .
`` What is the matter , Davy ? ''
asked Anne , taking him up in her arms .
`` Where are Marilla and Dora ? ''
`` Marilla 's putting Dora to bed , '' sobbed Davy , `` and I 'm crying 'cause Dora fell down the outside cellar steps , heels over head , and scraped all the skin off her nose , and -- '' `` Oh , well , do n't cry about it , dear .
Of course , you are sorry for her , but crying wo n't help her any .
She 'll be all right tomorrow .
Crying never helps any one , Davy-boy , and -- '' `` I ai n't crying 'cause Dora fell down cellar , '' said Davy , cutting short Anne 's wellmeant preachment with increasing bitterness .
`` I 'm crying , cause I was n't there to see her fall .
I 'm always missing some fun or other , seems to me . ''
`` Oh , Davy ! ''
Anne choked back an unholy shriek of laughter .
`` Would you call it fun to see poor little Dora fall down the steps and get hurt ? ''
`` She was n't MUCH hurt , '' said Davy , defiantly . ''
` Course , if she 'd been killed I 'd have been real sorry , Anne .
But the Keiths ai n't so easy killed .
They 're like the Blewetts , I guess .
Herb Blewett fell off the hayloft last Wednesday , and rolled right down through the turnip chute into the box stall , where they had a fearful wild , cross horse , and rolled right under his heels .
And still he got out alive , with only three bones broke .
Mrs. Lynde says there are some folks you ca n't kill with a meat-axe .
Is Mrs. Lynde coming here tomorrow , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , Davy , and I hope you 'll be always very nice and good to her . ''
`` I 'll be nice and good .
But will she ever put me to bed at nights , Anne ? ''
`` Perhaps .
Why ? '' ''
'Cause , '' said Davy very decidedly , `` if she does I wo n't say my prayers before her like I do before you , Anne . ''
`` Why not ? '' ''
'Cause I do n't think it would be nice to talk to God before strangers , Anne .
Dora can say hers to Mrs. Lynde if she likes , but I wo n't .
I 'll wait till she 's gone and then say 'em .
Wo n't that be all right , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , if you are sure you wo n't forget to say them , Davy-boy . ''
`` Oh , I wo n't forget , you bet .
I think saying my prayers is great fun .
But it wo n't be as good fun saying them alone as saying them to you .
I wish you 'd stay home , Anne .
I do n't see what you want to go away and leave us for . ''
`` I do n't exactly WANT to , Davy , but I feel I ought to go . ''
`` If you do n't want to go you need n't .
You 're grown up .
When I 'm grown up I 'm not going to do one single thing I do n't want to do , Anne . ''
`` All your life , Davy , you 'll find yourself doing things you do n't want to do . ''
`` I wo n't , '' said Davy flatly .
`` Catch me !
I have to do things I do n't want to now 'cause you and Marilla 'll send me to bed if I do n't .
But when I grow up you ca n't do that , and there 'll be nobody to tell me not to do things .
Wo n't I have the time !
Say , Anne , Milty Boulter says his mother says you 're going to college to see if you can catch a man .
Are you , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
For a second Anne burned with resentment .
Then she laughed , reminding herself that Mrs. Boulter 's crude vulgarity of thought and speech could not harm her .
`` No , Davy , I 'm not .
I 'm going to study and grow and learn about many things . ''
`` What things ? '' ''
` Shoes and ships and sealing wax And cabbages and kings , ' '' quoted Anne .
`` But if you DID want to catch a man how would you go about it ?
I want to know , '' persisted Davy , for whom the subject evidently possessed a certain fascination .
`` You 'd better ask Mrs. Boulter , '' said Anne thoughtlessly .
`` I think it 's likely she knows more about the process than I do . ''
`` I will , the next time I see her , '' said Davy gravely .
`` Davy !
If you do ! ''
cried Anne , realizing her mistake .
`` But you just told me to , '' protested Davy aggrieved .
`` It 's time you went to bed , '' decreed Anne , by way of getting out of the scrape .
After Davy had gone to bed Anne wandered down to Victoria Island and sat there alone , curtained with fine-spun , moonlit gloom , while the water laughed around her in a duet of brook and wind .
Anne had always loved that brook .
Many a dream had she spun over its sparkling water in days gone by .
She forgot lovelorn youths , and the cayenne speeches of malicious neighbors , and all the problems of her girlish existence .
In imagination she sailed over storied seas that wash the distant shining shores of `` faery lands forlorn , '' where lost Atlantis and Elysium lie , with the evening star for pilot , to the land of Heart 's Desire .
And she was richer in those dreams than in realities ; for things seen pass away , but the things that are unseen are eternal .
Chapter II Garlands of Autumn The following week sped swiftly , crowded with innumerable `` last things , '' as Anne called them .
Good-bye calls had to be made and received , being pleasant or otherwise , according to whether callers and called-upon were heartily in sympathy with Anne 's hopes , or thought she was too much puffed-up over going to college and that it was their duty to `` take her down a peg or two . ''
The A.V.I.S. gave a farewell party in honor of Anne and Gilbert one evening at the home of Josie Pye , choosing that place , partly because Mr. Pye 's house was large and convenient , partly because it was strongly suspected that the Pye girls would have nothing to do with the affair if their offer of the house for the party was not accepted .
It was a very pleasant little time , for the Pye girls were gracious , and said and did nothing to mar the harmony of the occasion -- which was not according to their wont .
Josie was unusually amiable -- so much so that she even remarked condescendingly to Anne , `` Your new dress is rather becoming to you , Anne .
Really , you look ALMOST PRETTY in it . ''
`` How kind of you to say so , '' responded Anne , with dancing eyes .
Her sense of humor was developing , and the speeches that would have hurt her at fourteen were becoming merely food for amusement now .
Josie suspected that Anne was laughing at her behind those wicked eyes ; but she contented herself with whispering to Gertie , as they went downstairs , that Anne Shirley would put on more airs than ever now that she was going to college -- you 'd see !
All the `` old crowd '' was there , full of mirth and zest and youthful lightheartedness .
Diana Barry , rosy and dimpled , shadowed by the faithful Fred ; Jane Andrews , neat and sensible and plain ; Ruby Gillis , looking her handsomest and brightest in a cream silk blouse , with red geraniums in her golden hair ; Gilbert Blythe and Charlie Sloane , both trying to keep as near the elusive Anne as possible ; Carrie Sloane , looking pale and melancholy because , so it was reported , her father would not allow Oliver Kimball to come near the place ; Moody Spurgeon MacPherson , whose round face and objectionable ears were as round and objectionable as ever ; and Billy Andrews , who sat in a corner all the evening , chuckled when any one spoke to him , and watched Anne Shirley with a grin of pleasure on his broad , freckled countenance .
Anne had known beforehand of the party , but she had not known that she and Gilbert were , as the founders of the Society , to be presented with a very complimentary `` address '' and `` tokens of respect '' -- in her case a volume of Shakespeare 's plays , in Gilbert 's a fountain pen .
She was so taken by surprise and pleased by the nice things said in the address , read in Moody Spurgeon 's most solemn and ministerial tones , that the tears quite drowned the sparkle of her big gray eyes .
She had worked hard and faithfully for the A.V.I.S. , and it warmed the cockles of her heart that the members appreciated her efforts so sincerely .
And they were all so nice and friendly and jolly -- even the Pye girls had their merits ; at that moment Anne loved all the world .
She enjoyed the evening tremendously , but the end of it rather spoiled all .
Gilbert again made the mistake of saying something sentimental to her as they ate their supper on the moonlit verandah ; and Anne , to punish him , was gracious to Charlie Sloane and allowed the latter to walk home with her .
She found , however , that revenge hurts nobody quite so much as the one who tries to inflict it .
Gilbert walked airily off with Ruby Gillis , and Anne could hear them laughing and talking gaily as they loitered along in the still , crisp autumn air .
They were evidently having the best of good times , while she was horribly bored by Charlie Sloane , who talked unbrokenly on , and never , even by accident , said one thing that was worth listening to .
Anne gave an occasional absent `` yes '' or `` no , '' and thought how beautiful Ruby had looked that night , how very goggly Charlie 's eyes were in the moonlight -- worse even than by daylight -- and that the world , somehow , was n't quite such a nice place as she had believed it to be earlier in the evening .
`` I 'm just tired out -- that is what is the matter with me , '' she said , when she thankfully found herself alone in her own room .
And she honestly believed it was .
But a certain little gush of joy , as from some secret , unknown spring , bubbled up in her heart the next evening , when she saw Gilbert striding down through the Haunted Wood and crossing the old log bridge with that firm , quick step of his .
So Gilbert was not going to spend this last evening with Ruby Gillis after all !
`` You look tired , Anne , '' he said .
`` I am tired , and , worse than that , I 'm disgruntled .
I 'm tired because I 've been packing my trunk and sewing all day .
But I 'm disgruntled because six women have been here to say good-bye to me , and every one of the six managed to say something that seemed to take the color right out of life and leave it as gray and dismal and cheerless as a November morning . ''
`` Spiteful old cats ! ''
was Gilbert 's elegant comment .
`` Oh , no , they were n't , '' said Anne seriously .
`` That is just the trouble .
If they had been spiteful cats I would n't have minded them .
But they are all nice , kind , motherly souls , who like me and whom I like , and that is why what they said , or hinted , had such undue weight with me .
They let me see they thought I was crazy going to Redmond and trying to take a B.A. , and ever since I 've been wondering if I am .
Mrs. Peter Sloane sighed and said she hoped my strength would hold out till I got through ; and at once I saw myself a hopeless victim of nervous prostration at the end of my third year ; Mrs. Eben Wright said it must cost an awful lot to put in four years at Redmond ; and I felt all over me that it was unpardonable of me to squander Marilla 's money and my own on such a folly .
Mrs. Jasper Bell said she hoped I would n't let college spoil me , as it did some people ; and I felt in my bones that the end of my four Redmond years would see me a most insufferable creature , thinking I knew it all , and looking down on everything and everybody in Avonlea ; Mrs. Elisha Wright said she understood that Redmond girls , especially those who belonged to Kingsport , were ` dreadful dressy and stuck-up , ' and she guessed I would n't feel much at home among them ; and I saw myself , a snubbed , dowdy , humiliated country girl , shuffling through Redmond 's classic halls in coppertoned boots . ''
Anne ended with a laugh and a sigh commingled .
With her sensitive nature all disapproval had weight , even the disapproval of those for whose opinions she had scant respect .
For the time being life was savorless , and ambition had gone out like a snuffed candle .
`` You surely do n't care for what they said , '' protested Gilbert .
`` You know exactly how narrow their outlook on life is , excellent creatures though they are .
To do anything THEY have never done is anathema maranatha .
You are the first Avonlea girl who has ever gone to college ; and you know that all pioneers are considered to be afflicted with moonstruck madness . ''
`` Oh , I know .
But FEELING is so different from KNOWING .
My common sense tells me all you can say , but there are times when common sense has no power over me .
Common nonsense takes possession of my soul .
Really , after Mrs. Elisha went away I hardly had the heart to finish packing . ''
`` You 're just tired , Anne .
Come , forget it all and take a walk with me -- a ramble back through the woods beyond the marsh .
There should be something there I want to show you . ''
`` Should be !
Do n't you know if it is there ? ''
`` No .
I only know it should be , from something I saw there in spring .
Come on .
We 'll pretend we are two children again and we 'll go the way of the wind . ''
They started gaily off .
Anne , remembering the unpleasantness of the preceding evening , was very nice to Gilbert ; and Gilbert , who was learning wisdom , took care to be nothing save the schoolboy comrade again .
Mrs. Lynde and Marilla watched them from the kitchen window .
`` That 'll be a match some day , '' Mrs. Lynde said approvingly .
Marilla winced slightly .
In her heart she hoped it would , but it went against her grain to hear the matter spoken of in Mrs. Lynde 's gossipy matter-of-fact way .
`` They 're only children yet , '' she said shortly .
Mrs. Lynde laughed good-naturedly .
`` Anne is eighteen ; I was married when I was that age .
We old folks , Marilla , are too much given to thinking children never grow up , that 's what .
Anne is a young woman and Gilbert 's a man , and he worships the ground she walks on , as any one can see .
He 's a fine fellow , and Anne ca n't do better .
I hope she wo n't get any romantic nonsense into her head at Redmond .
I do n't approve of them coeducational places and never did , that 's what .
I do n't believe , '' concluded Mrs. Lynde solemnly , `` that the students at such colleges ever do much else than flirt . ''
`` They must study a little , '' said Marilla , with a smile .
`` Precious little , '' sniffed Mrs. Rachel .
`` However , I think Anne will .
She never was flirtatious .
But she does n't appreciate Gilbert at his full value , that 's what .
Oh , I know girls !
Charlie Sloane is wild about her , too , but I 'd never advise her to marry a Sloane .
The Sloanes are good , honest , respectable people , of course .
But when all 's said and done , they 're SLOANES . ''
Marilla nodded .
To an outsider , the statement that Sloanes were Sloanes might not be very illuminating , but she understood .
Every village has such a family ; good , honest , respectable people they may be , but SLOANES they are and must ever remain , though they speak with the tongues of men and angels .
Gilbert and Anne , happily unconscious that their future was thus being settled by Mrs. Rachel , were sauntering through the shadows of the Haunted Wood .
Beyond , the harvest hills were basking in an amber sunset radiance , under a pale , aerial sky of rose and blue .
The distant spruce groves were burnished bronze , and their long shadows barred the upland meadows .
But around them a little wind sang among the fir tassels , and in it there was the note of autumn .
`` This wood really is haunted now -- by old memories , '' said Anne , stooping to gather a spray of ferns , bleached to waxen whiteness by frost .
`` It seems to me that the little girls Diana and I used to be play here still , and sit by the Dryad 's Bubble in the twilights , trysting with the ghosts .
Do you know , I can never go up this path in the dusk without feeling a bit of the old fright and shiver ?
There was one especially horrifying phantom which we created -- the ghost of the murdered child that crept up behind you and laid cold fingers on yours .
I confess that , to this day , I can not help fancying its little , furtive footsteps behind me when I come here after nightfall .
I 'm not afraid of the White Lady or the headless man or the skeletons , but I wish I had never imagined that baby 's ghost into existence .
How angry Marilla and Mrs. Barry were over that affair , '' concluded Anne , with reminiscent laughter .
The woods around the head of the marsh were full of purple vistas , threaded with gossamers .
Past a dour plantation of gnarled spruces and a maple-fringed , sun-warm valley they found the `` something '' Gilbert was looking for .
`` Ah , here it is , '' he said with satisfaction .
`` An apple tree -- and away back here ! ''
exclaimed Anne delightedly .
`` Yes , a veritable apple-bearing apple tree , too , here in the very midst of pines and beeches , a mile away from any orchard .
I was here one day last spring and found it , all white with blossom .
So I resolved I 'd come again in the fall and see if it had been apples .
See , it 's loaded .
They look good , too -- tawny as russets but with a dusky red cheek .
Most wild seedlings are green and uninviting . ''
`` I suppose it sprang years ago from some chance-sown seed , '' said Anne dreamily .
`` And how it has grown and flourished and held its own here all alone among aliens , the brave determined thing ! ''
`` Here 's a fallen tree with a cushion of moss .
Sit down , Anne -- it will serve for a woodland throne .
I 'll climb for some apples .
They all grow high -- the tree had to reach up to the sunlight . ''
The apples proved to be delicious .
Under the tawny skin was a white , white flesh , faintly veined with red ; and , besides their own proper apple taste , they had a certain wild , delightful tang no orchard-grown apple ever possessed .
`` The fatal apple of Eden could n't have had a rarer flavor , '' commented Anne .
`` But it 's time we were going home .
See , it was twilight three minutes ago and now it 's moonlight .
What a pity we could n't have caught the moment of transformation .
But such moments never are caught , I suppose . ''
`` Let 's go back around the marsh and home by way of Lover 's Lane .
Do you feel as disgruntled now as when you started out , Anne ? ''
`` Not I. Those apples have been as manna to a hungry soul .
I feel that I shall love Redmond and have a splendid four years there . ''
`` And after those four years -- what ? ''
`` Oh , there 's another bend in the road at their end , '' answered Anne lightly .
`` I 've no idea what may be around it -- I do n't want to have .
It 's nicer not to know . ''
Lover 's Lane was a dear place that night , still and mysteriously dim in the pale radiance of the moonlight .
They loitered through it in a pleasant chummy silence , neither caring to talk .
`` If Gilbert were always as he has been this evening how nice and simple everything would be , '' reflected Anne .
Gilbert was looking at Anne , as she walked along .
In her light dress , with her slender delicacy , she made him think of a white iris .
`` I wonder if I can ever make her care for me , '' he thought , with a pang of self-distrust .
Chapter III Greeting and Farewell Charlie Sloane , Gilbert Blythe and Anne Shirley left Avonlea the following Monday morning .
Anne had hoped for a fine day .
Diana was to drive her to the station and they wanted this , their last drive together for some time , to be a pleasant one .
But when Anne went to bed Sunday night the east wind was moaning around Green Gables with an ominous prophecy which was fulfilled in the morning .
Anne awoke to find raindrops pattering against her window and shadowing the pond 's gray surface with widening rings ; hills and sea were hidden in mist , and the whole world seemed dim and dreary .
Anne dressed in the cheerless gray dawn , for an early start was necessary to catch the boat train ; she struggled against the tears that WOULD well up in her eyes in spite of herself .
She was leaving the home that was so dear to her , and something told her that she was leaving it forever , save as a holiday refuge .
Things would never be the same again ; coming back for vacations would not be living there .
And oh , how dear and beloved everything was -- that little white porch room , sacred to the dreams of girlhood , the old Snow Queen at the window , the brook in the hollow , the Dryad 's Bubble , the Haunted Woods , and Lover 's Lane -- all the thousand and one dear spots where memories of the old years bided .
Could she ever be really happy anywhere else ?
Breakfast at Green Gables that morning was a rather doleful meal .
Davy , for the first time in his life probably , could not eat , but blubbered shamelessly over his porridge .
Nobody else seemed to have much appetite , save Dora , who tucked away her rations comfortably .
Dora , like the immortal and most prudent Charlotte , who `` went on cutting bread and butter '' when her frenzied lover 's body had been carried past on a shutter , was one of those fortunate creatures who are seldom disturbed by anything .
Even at eight it took a great deal to ruffle Dora 's placidity .
She was sorry Anne was going away , of course , but was that any reason why she should fail to appreciate a poached egg on toast ?
Not at all .
And , seeing that Davy could not eat his , Dora ate it for him .
Promptly on time Diana appeared with horse and buggy , her rosy face glowing above her raincoat .
The good-byes had to be said then somehow .
Mrs. Lynde came in from her quarters to give Anne a hearty embrace and warn her to be careful of her health , whatever she did .
Marilla , brusque and tearless , pecked Anne 's cheek and said she supposed they 'd hear from her when she got settled .
A casual observer might have concluded that Anne 's going mattered very little to her -- unless said observer had happened to get a good look in her eyes .
Dora kissed Anne primly and squeezed out two decorous little tears ; but Davy , who had been crying on the back porch step ever since they rose from the table , refused to say good-bye at all .
When he saw Anne coming towards him he sprang to his feet , bolted up the back stairs , and hid in a clothes closet , out of which he would not come .
His muffled howls were the last sounds Anne heard as she left Green Gables .
It rained heavily all the way to Bright River , to which station they had to go , since the branch line train from Carmody did not connect with the boat train .
Charlie and Gilbert were on the station platform when they reached it , and the train was whistling .
Anne had just time to get her ticket and trunk check , say a hurried farewell to Diana , and hasten on board .
She wished she were going back with Diana to Avonlea ; she knew she was going to die of homesickness .
And oh , if only that dismal rain would stop pouring down as if the whole world were weeping over summer vanished and joys departed !
Even Gilbert 's presence brought her no comfort , for Charlie Sloane was there , too , and Sloanishness could be tolerated only in fine weather .
It was absolutely insufferable in rain .
But when the boat steamed out of Charlottetown harbor things took a turn for the better .
The rain ceased and the sun began to burst out goldenly now and again between the rents in the clouds , burnishing the gray seas with copper-hued radiance , and lighting up the mists that curtained the Island 's red shores with gleams of gold foretokening a fine day after all .
Besides , Charlie Sloane promptly became so seasick that he had to go below , and Anne and Gilbert were left alone on deck .
`` I am very glad that all the Sloanes get seasick as soon as they go on water , '' thought Anne mercilessly .
`` I am sure I could n't take my farewell look at the ` ould sod ' with Charlie standing there pretending to look sentimentally at it , too . ''
`` Well , we 're off , '' remarked Gilbert unsentimentally .
`` Yes , I feel like Byron 's ` Childe Harold ' -- only it is n't really my ` native shore ' that I 'm watching , '' said Anne , winking her gray eyes vigorously .
`` Nova Scotia is that , I suppose .
But one 's native shore is the land one loves the best , and that 's good old P.E.I. for me .
I ca n't believe I did n't always live here .
Those eleven years before I came seem like a bad dream .
It 's seven years since I crossed on this boat -- the evening Mrs. Spencer brought me over from Hopetown .
I can see myself , in that dreadful old wincey dress and faded sailor hat , exploring decks and cabins with enraptured curiosity .
It was a fine evening ; and how those red Island shores did gleam in the sunshine .
Now I 'm crossing the strait again .
Oh , Gilbert , I do hope I 'll like Redmond and Kingsport , but I 'm sure I wo n't ! ''
`` Where 's all your philosophy gone , Anne ? ''
`` It 's all submerged under a great , swamping wave of loneliness and homesickness .
I 've longed for three years to go to Redmond -- and now I 'm going -- and I wish I were n't !
Never mind !
I shall be cheerful and philosophical again after I have just one good cry .
I MUST have that , ` as a went ' -- and I 'll have to wait until I get into my boardinghouse bed tonight , wherever it may be , before I can have it .
Then Anne will be herself again .
I wonder if Davy has come out of the closet yet . ''
It was nine that night when their train reached Kingsport , and they found themselves in the blue-white glare of the crowded station .
Anne felt horribly bewildered , but a moment later she was seized by Priscilla Grant , who had come to Kingsport on Saturday .
`` Here you are , beloved !
And I suppose you 're as tired as I was when I got here Saturday night . ''
`` Tired !
Priscilla , do n't talk of it .
I 'm tired , and green , and provincial , and only about ten years old .
For pity 's sake take your poor , broken-down chum to some place where she can hear herself think . ''
`` I 'll take you right up to our boardinghouse .
I 've a cab ready outside . ''
`` It 's such a blessing you 're here , Prissy .
If you were n't I think I should just sit down on my suitcase , here and now , and weep bitter tears .
What a comfort one familiar face is in a howling wilderness of strangers ! ''
`` Is that Gilbert Blythe over there , Anne ?
How he has grown up this past year !
He was only a schoolboy when I taught in Carmody .
And of course that 's Charlie Sloane .
HE has n't changed -- could n't !
He looked just like that when he was born , and he 'll look like that when he 's eighty .
This way , dear .
We 'll be home in twenty minutes . ''
`` Home ! ''
groaned Anne .
`` You mean we 'll be in some horrible boardinghouse , in a still more horrible hall bedroom , looking out on a dingy back yard . ''
`` It is n't a horrible boardinghouse , Anne-girl .
Here 's our cab .
Hop in -- the driver will get your trunk .
Oh , yes , the boardinghouse -- it 's really a very nice place of its kind , as you 'll admit tomorrow morning when a good night 's sleep has turned your blues rosy pink .
It 's a big , old-fashioned , gray stone house on St. John Street , just a nice little constitutional from Redmond .
It used to be the ` residence ' of great folk , but fashion has deserted St. John Street and its houses only dream now of better days .
They 're so big that people living in them have to take boarders just to fill up .
At least , that is the reason our landladies are very anxious to impress on us .
They 're delicious , Anne -- our landladies , I mean . ''
`` How many are there ? ''
`` Two .
Miss Hannah Harvey and Miss Ada Harvey .
They were born twins about fifty years ago . ''
`` I ca n't get away from twins , it seems , '' smiled Anne .
`` Wherever I go they confront me . ''
`` Oh , they 're not twins now , dear .
After they reached the age of thirty they never were twins again .
Miss Hannah has grown old , not too gracefully , and Miss Ada has stayed thirty , less gracefully still .
I do n't know whether Miss Hannah can smile or not ; I 've never caught her at it so far , but Miss Ada smiles all the time and that 's worse .
However , they 're nice , kind souls , and they take two boarders every year because Miss Hannah 's economical soul can not bear to ` waste room space ' -- not because they need to or have to , as Miss Ada has told me seven times since Saturday night .
As for our rooms , I admit they are hall bedrooms , and mine does look out on the back yard .
Your room is a front one and looks out on Old St. John 's graveyard , which is just across the street . ''
`` That sounds gruesome , '' shivered Anne .
`` I think I 'd rather have the back yard view . ''
`` Oh , no , you would n't .
Wait and see .
Old St. John 's is a darling place .
It 's been a graveyard so long that it 's ceased to be one and has become one of the sights of Kingsport .
I was all through it yesterday for a pleasure exertion .
There 's a big stone wall and a row of enormous trees all around it , and rows of trees all through it , and the queerest old tombstones , with the queerest and quaintest inscriptions .
You 'll go there to study , Anne , see if you do n't .
Of course , nobody is ever buried there now .
But a few years ago they put up a beautiful monument to the memory of Nova Scotian soldiers who fell in the Crimean War .
It is just opposite the entrance gates and there 's ` scope for imagination ' in it , as you used to say .
Here 's your trunk at last -- and the boys coming to say good night .
Must I really shake hands with Charlie Sloane , Anne ?
His hands are always so cold and fishy-feeling .
We must ask them to call occasionally .
Miss Hannah gravely told me we could have ` young gentlemen callers ' two evenings in the week , if they went away at a reasonable hour ; and Miss Ada asked me , smiling , please to be sure they did n't sit on her beautiful cushions .
I promised to see to it ; but goodness knows where else they CAN sit , unless they sit on the floor , for there are cushions on EVERYTHING .
Miss Ada even has an elaborate Battenburg one on top of the piano . ''
Anne was laughing by this time .
Priscilla 's gay chatter had the intended effect of cheering her up ; homesickness vanished for the time being , and did not even return in full force when she finally found herself alone in her little bedroom .
She went to her window and looked out .
The street below was dim and quiet .
Across it the moon was shining above the trees in Old St. John 's , just behind the great dark head of the lion on the monument .
Anne wondered if it could have been only that morning that she had left Green Gables .
She had the sense of a long passage of time which one day of change and travel gives .
`` I suppose that very moon is looking down on Green Gables now , '' she mused .
`` But I wo n't think about it -- that way homesickness lies .
I 'm not even going to have my good cry .
I 'll put that off to a more convenient season , and just now I 'll go calmly and sensibly to bed and to sleep . ''
Chapter IV April 's Lady Kingsport is a quaint old town , hearking back to early Colonial days , and wrapped in its ancient atmosphere , as some fine old dame in garments fashioned like those of her youth .
Here and there it sprouts out into modernity , but at heart it is still unspoiled ; it is full of curious relics , and haloed by the romance of many legends of the past .
Once it was a mere frontier station on the fringe of the wilderness , and those were the days when Indians kept life from being monotonous to the settlers .
Then it grew to be a bone of contention between the British and the French , being occupied now by the one and now by the other , emerging from each occupation with some fresh scar of battling nations branded on it .
It has in its park a martello tower , autographed all over by tourists , a dismantled old French fort on the hills beyond the town , and several antiquated cannon in its public squares .
It has other historic spots also , which may be hunted out by the curious , and none is more quaint and delightful than Old St. John 's Cemetery at the very core of the town , with streets of quiet , old-time houses on two sides , and busy , bustling , modern thoroughfares on the others .
Every citizen of Kingsport feels a thrill of possessive pride in Old St. John 's , for , if he be of any pretensions at all , he has an ancestor buried there , with a queer , crooked slab at his head , or else sprawling protectively over the grave , on which all the main facts of his history are recorded .
For the most part no great art or skill was lavished on those old tombstones .
The larger number are of roughly chiselled brown or gray native stone , and only in a few cases is there any attempt at ornamentation .
Some are adorned with skull and cross-bones , and this grizzly decoration is frequently coupled with a cherub 's head .
Many are prostrate and in ruins .
Into almost all Time 's tooth has been gnawing , until some inscriptions have been completely effaced , and others can only be deciphered with difficulty .
The graveyard is very full and very bowery , for it is surrounded and intersected by rows of elms and willows , beneath whose shade the sleepers must lie very dreamlessly , forever crooned to by the winds and leaves over them , and quite undisturbed by the clamor of traffic just beyond .
Anne took the first of many rambles in Old St. John 's the next afternoon .
She and Priscilla had gone to Redmond in the forenoon and registered as students , after which there was nothing more to do that day .
The girls gladly made their escape , for it was not exhilarating to be surrounded by crowds of strangers , most of whom had a rather alien appearance , as if not quite sure where they belonged .
The `` freshettes '' stood about in detached groups of two or three , looking askance at each other ; the `` freshies , '' wiser in their day and generation , had banded themselves together on the big staircase of the entrance hall , where they were shouting out glees with all the vigor of youthful lungs , as a species of defiance to their traditional enemies , the Sophomores , a few of whom were prowling loftily about , looking properly disdainful of the `` unlicked cubs '' on the stairs .
Gilbert and Charlie were nowhere to be seen .
`` Little did I think the day would ever come when I 'd be glad of the sight of a Sloane , '' said Priscilla , as they crossed the campus , `` but I 'd welcome Charlie 's goggle eyes almost ecstatically .
At least , they 'd be familiar eyes . ''
`` Oh , '' sighed Anne .
`` I ca n't describe how I felt when I was standing there , waiting my turn to be registered -- as insignificant as the teeniest drop in a most enormous bucket .
It 's bad enough to feel insignificant , but it 's unbearable to have it grained into your soul that you will never , can never , be anything but insignificant , and that is how I did feel -- as if I were invisible to the naked eye and some of those Sophs might step on me .
I knew I would go down to my grave unwept , unhonored and unsung . ''
`` Wait till next year , '' comforted Priscilla .
`` Then we 'll be able to look as bored and sophisticated as any Sophomore of them all .
No doubt it is rather dreadful to feel insignificant ; but I think it 's better than to feel as big and awkward as I did -- as if I were sprawled all over Redmond .
That 's how I felt -- I suppose because I was a good two inches taller than any one else in the crowd .
I was n't afraid a Soph might walk over me ; I was afraid they 'd take me for an elephant , or an overgrown sample of a potato-fed Islander . ''
`` I suppose the trouble is we ca n't forgive big Redmond for not being little Queen 's , '' said Anne , gathering about her the shreds of her old cheerful philosophy to cover her nakedness of spirit .
`` When we left Queen 's we knew everybody and had a place of our own .
I suppose we have been unconsciously expecting to take life up at Redmond just where we left off at Queen 's , and now we feel as if the ground had slipped from under our feet .
I 'm thankful that neither Mrs. Lynde nor Mrs. Elisha Wright know , or ever will know , my state of mind at present .
They would exult in saying ' I told you so , ' and be convinced it was the beginning of the end .
Whereas it is just the end of the beginning . ''
`` Exactly .
That sounds more Anneish .
In a little while we 'll be acclimated and acquainted , and all will be well .
Anne , did you notice the girl who stood alone just outside the door of the coeds ' dressing room all the morning -- the pretty one with the brown eyes and crooked mouth ? ''
`` Yes , I did .
I noticed her particularly because she seemed the only creature there who LOOKED as lonely and friendless as I FELT .
I had YOU , but she had no one . ''
`` I think she felt pretty all-by-herselfish , too .
Several times I saw her make a motion as if to cross over to us , but she never did it -- too shy , I suppose .
I wished she would come .
If I had n't felt so much like the aforesaid elephant I 'd have gone to her .
But I could n't lumber across that big hall with all those boys howling on the stairs .
She was the prettiest freshette I saw today , but probably favor is deceitful and even beauty is vain on your first day at Redmond , '' concluded Priscilla with a laugh .
`` I 'm going across to Old St. John 's after lunch , '' said Anne .
`` I do n't know that a graveyard is a very good place to go to get cheered up , but it seems the only get-at-able place where there are trees , and trees I must have .
I 'll sit on one of those old slabs and shut my eyes and imagine I 'm in the Avonlea woods . ''
Anne did not do that , however , for she found enough of interest in Old St. John 's to keep her eyes wide open .
They went in by the entrance gates , past the simple , massive , stone arch surmounted by the great lion of England . ''
` And on Inkerman yet the wild bramble is gory , And those bleak heights henceforth shall be famous in story , ' '' quoted Anne , looking at it with a thrill .
They found themselves in a dim , cool , green place where winds were fond of purring .
Up and down the long grassy aisles they wandered , reading the quaint , voluminous epitaphs , carved in an age that had more leisure than our own . ''
` Here lieth the body of Albert Crawford , Esq. , ' '' read Anne from a worn , gray slab , '' ` for many years Keeper of His Majesty 's Ordnance at Kingsport .
He served in the army till the peace of 1763 , when he retired from bad health .
He was a brave officer , the best of husbands , the best of fathers , the best of friends .
He died October 29th , 1792 , aged 84 years . '
There 's an epitaph for you , Prissy .
There is certainly some ` scope for imagination ' in it .
How full such a life must have been of adventure !
And as for his personal qualities , I 'm sure human eulogy could n't go further .
I wonder if they told him he was all those best things while he was alive . ''
`` Here 's another , '' said Priscilla .
`` Listen -- ` To the memory of Alexander Ross , who died on the 22nd of September , 1840 , aged 43 years .
This is raised as a tribute of affection by one whom he served so faithfully for 27 years that he was regarded as a friend , deserving the fullest confidence and attachment . ' ''
`` A very good epitaph , '' commented Anne thoughtfully .
`` I would n't wish a better .
We are all servants of some sort , and if the fact that we are faithful can be truthfully inscribed on our tombstones nothing more need be added .
Here 's a sorrowful little gray stone , Prissy -- ` to the memory of a favorite child . '
And here is another ` erected to the memory of one who is buried elsewhere . '
I wonder where that unknown grave is .
Really , Pris , the graveyards of today will never be as interesting as this .
You were right -- I shall come here often .
I love it already .
I see we 're not alone here -- there 's a girl down at the end of this avenue . ''
`` Yes , and I believe it 's the very girl we saw at Redmond this morning .
I 've been watching her for five minutes .
She has started to come up the avenue exactly half a dozen times , and half a dozen times has she turned and gone back .
Either she 's dreadfully shy or she has got something on her conscience .
Let 's go and meet her .
It 's easier to get acquainted in a graveyard than at Redmond , I believe . ''
They walked down the long grassy arcade towards the stranger , who was sitting on a gray slab under an enormous willow .
She was certainly very pretty , with a vivid , irregular , bewitching type of prettiness .
There was a gloss as of brown nuts on her satin-smooth hair and a soft , ripe glow on her round cheeks .
Her eyes were big and brown and velvety , under oddly-pointed black brows , and her crooked mouth was rose-red .
She wore a smart brown suit , with two very modish little shoes peeping from beneath it ; and her hat of dull pink straw , wreathed with golden-brown poppies , had the indefinable , unmistakable air which pertains to the `` creation '' of an artist in millinery .
Priscilla had a sudden stinging consciousness that her own hat had been trimmed by her village store milliner , and Anne wondered uncomfortably if the blouse she had made herself , and which Mrs. Lynde had fitted , looked VERY countrified and home-made besides the stranger 's smart attire .
For a moment both girls felt like turning back .
But they had already stopped and turned towards the gray slab .
It was too late to retreat , for the brown-eyed girl had evidently concluded that they were coming to speak to her .
Instantly she sprang up and came forward with outstretched hand and a gay , friendly smile in which there seemed not a shadow of either shyness or burdened conscience .
`` Oh , I want to know who you two girls are , '' she exclaimed eagerly .
`` I 've been DYING to know .
I saw you at Redmond this morning .
Say , was n't it AWFUL there ?
For the time I wished I had stayed home and got married . ''
Anne and Priscilla both broke into unconstrained laughter at this unexpected conclusion .
The brown-eyed girl laughed , too .
`` I really did .
I COULD have , you know .
Come , let 's all sit down on this gravestone and get acquainted .
It wo n't be hard .
I know we 're going to adore each other -- I knew it as soon as I saw you at Redmond this morning .
I wanted so much to go right over and hug you both . ''
`` Why did n't you ? ''
asked Priscilla .
`` Because I simply could n't make up my mind to do it .
I never can make up my mind about anything myself -- I 'm always afflicted with indecision .
Just as soon as I decide to do something I feel in my bones that another course would be the correct one .
It 's a dreadful misfortune , but I was born that way , and there is no use in blaming me for it , as some people do .
So I could n't make up my mind to go and speak to you , much as I wanted to . ''
`` We thought you were too shy , '' said Anne .
`` No , no , dear .
Shyness is n't among the many failings -- or virtues -- of Philippa Gordon -- Phil for short .
Do call me Phil right off .
Now , what are your handles ? ''
`` She 's Priscilla Grant , '' said Anne , pointing .
`` And SHE 'S Anne Shirley , '' said Priscilla , pointing in turn .
`` And we 're from the Island , '' said both together .
`` I hail from Bolingbroke , Nova Scotia , '' said Philippa .
`` Bolingbroke ! ''
exclaimed Anne .
`` Why , that is where I was born . ''
`` Do you really mean it ?
Why , that makes you a Bluenose after all . ''
`` No , it does n't , '' retorted Anne .
`` Was n't it Dan O'Connell who said that if a man was born in a stable it did n't make him a horse ?
I 'm Island to the core . ''
`` Well , I 'm glad you were born in Bolingbroke anyway .
It makes us kind of neighbors , does n't it ?
And I like that , because when I tell you secrets it wo n't be as if I were telling them to a stranger .
I have to tell them .
I ca n't keep secrets -- it 's no use to try .
That 's my worst failing -- that , and indecision , as aforesaid .
Would you believe it ?
-- it took me half an hour to decide which hat to wear when I was coming here -- HERE , to a graveyard !
At first I inclined to my brown one with the feather ; but as soon as I put it on I thought this pink one with the floppy brim would be more becoming .
When I got IT pinned in place I liked the brown one better .
At last I put them close together on the bed , shut my eyes , and jabbed with a hat pin .
The pin speared the pink one , so I put it on .
It is becoming , is n't it ?
Tell me , what do you think of my looks ? ''
At this naive demand , made in a perfectly serious tone , Priscilla laughed again .
But Anne said , impulsively squeezing Philippa 's hand , `` We thought this morning that you were the prettiest girl we saw at Redmond . ''
Philippa 's crooked mouth flashed into a bewitching , crooked smile over very white little teeth .
`` I thought that myself , '' was her next astounding statement , `` but I wanted some one else 's opinion to bolster mine up .
I ca n't decide even on my own appearance .
Just as soon as I 've decided that I 'm pretty I begin to feel miserably that I 'm not .
Besides , have a horrible old great-aunt who is always saying to me , with a mournful sigh , ` You were such a pretty baby .
It 's strange how children change when they grow up . '
I adore aunts , but I detest great-aunts .
Please tell me quite often that I am pretty , if you do n't mind .
I feel so much more comfortable when I can believe I 'm pretty .
And I 'll be just as obliging to you if you want me to -- I CAN be , with a clear conscience . ''
`` Thanks , '' laughed Anne , `` but Priscilla and I are so firmly convinced of our own good looks that we do n't need any assurance about them , so you need n't trouble . ''
`` Oh , you 're laughing at me .
I know you think I 'm abominably vain , but I 'm not .
There really is n't one spark of vanity in me .
And I 'm never a bit grudging about paying compliments to other girls when they deserve them .
I 'm so glad I know you folks .
I came up on Saturday and I 've nearly died of homesickness ever since .
It 's a horrible feeling , is n't it ?
In Bolingbroke I 'm an important personage , and in Kingsport I 'm just nobody !
There were times when I could feel my soul turning a delicate blue .
Where do you hang out ? ''
`` Thirty-eight St. John 's Street . ''
`` Better and better .
Why , I 'm just around the corner on Wallace Street .
I do n't like my boardinghouse , though .
It 's bleak and lonesome , and my room looks out on such an unholy back yard .
It 's the ugliest place in the world .
As for cats -- well , surely ALL the Kingsport cats ca n't congregate there at night , but half of them must .
I adore cats on hearth rugs , snoozing before nice , friendly fires , but cats in back yards at midnight are totally different animals .
The first night I was here I cried all night , and so did the cats .
You should have seen my nose in the morning .
How I wished I had never left home ! ''
`` I do n't know how you managed to make up your mind to come to Redmond at all , if you are really such an undecided person , '' said amused Priscilla .
`` Bless your heart , honey , I did n't .
It was father who wanted me to come here .
His heart was set on it -- why , I do n't know .
It seems perfectly ridiculous to think of me studying for a B.A. degree , does n't it ?
Not but what I can do it , all right .
I have heaps of brains . ''
`` Oh ! ''
said Priscilla vaguely .
`` Yes .
But it 's such hard work to use them .
And B.A. 's are such learned , dignified , wise , solemn creatures -- they must be .
No , I did n't want to come to Redmond .
I did it just to oblige father .
He IS such a duck .
Besides , I knew if I stayed home I 'd have to get married .
Mother wanted that -- wanted it decidedly .
Mother has plenty of decision .
But I really hated the thought of being married for a few years yet .
I want to have heaps of fun before I settle down .
And , ridiculous as the idea of my being a B.A. is , the idea of my being an old married woman is still more absurd , is n't it ?
I 'm only eighteen .
No , I concluded I would rather come to Redmond than be married .
Besides , how could I ever have made up my mind which man to marry ? ''
`` Were there so many ? ''
laughed Anne .
`` Heaps .
The boys like me awfully -- they really do .
But there were only two that mattered .
The rest were all too young and too poor .
I must marry a rich man , you know . ''
`` Why must you ? ''
`` Honey , you could n't imagine ME being a poor man 's wife , could you ?
I ca n't do a single useful thing , and I am VERY extravagant .
Oh , no , my husband must have heaps of money .
So that narrowed them down to two .
But I could n't decide between two any easier than between two hundred .
I knew perfectly well that whichever one I chose I 'd regret all my life that I had n't married the other . ''
`` Did n't you -- love -- either of them ? ''
asked Anne , a little hesitatingly .
It was not easy for her to speak to a stranger of the great mystery and transformation of life .
`` Goodness , no .
I could n't love anybody .
It is n't in me .
Besides I would n't want to .
Being in love makes you a perfect slave , I think .
And it would give a man such power to hurt you .
I 'd be afraid .
No , no , Alec and Alonzo are two dear boys , and I like them both so much that I really do n't know which I like the better .
That is the trouble .
Alec is the best looking , of course , and I simply could n't marry a man who was n't handsome .
He is good-tempered too , and has lovely , curly , black hair .
He 's rather too perfect -- I do n't believe I 'd like a perfect husband -- somebody I could never find fault with . ''
`` Then why not marry Alonzo ? ''
asked Priscilla gravely .
`` Think of marrying a name like Alonzo ! ''
said Phil dolefully .
`` I do n't believe I could endure it .
But he has a classic nose , and it WOULD be a comfort to have a nose in the family that could be depended on .
I ca n't depend on mine .
So far , it takes after the Gordon pattern , but I 'm so afraid it will develop Byrne tendencies as I grow older .
I examine it every day anxiously to make sure it 's still Gordon .
Mother was a Byrne and has the Byrne nose in the Byrnest degree .
Wait till you see it .
I adore nice noses .
Your nose is awfully nice , Anne Shirley .
Alonzo 's nose nearly turned the balance in his favor .
But ALONZO !
No , I could n't decide .
If I could have done as I did with the hats -- stood them both up together , shut my eyes , and jabbed with a hatpin -- it would have been quite easy . ''
`` What did Alec and Alonzo feel like when you came away ? ''
queried Priscilla .
`` Oh , they still have hope .
I told them they 'd have to wait till I could make up my mind .
They 're quite willing to wait .
They both worship me , you know .
Meanwhile , I intend to have a good time .
I expect I shall have heaps of beaux at Redmond .
I ca n't be happy unless I have , you know .
But do n't you think the freshmen are fearfully homely ?
I saw only one really handsome fellow among them .
He went away before you came .
I heard his chum call him Gilbert .
His chum had eyes that stuck out THAT FAR .
But you 're not going yet , girls ?
Do n't go yet . ''
`` I think we must , '' said Anne , rather coldly .
`` It 's getting late , and I 've some work to do . ''
`` But you 'll both come to see me , wo n't you ? ''
asked Philippa , getting up and putting an arm around each .
`` And let me come to see you .
I want to be chummy with you .
I 've taken such a fancy to you both .
And I have n't quite disgusted you with my frivolity , have I ? ''
`` Not quite , '' laughed Anne , responding to Phil 's squeeze , with a return of cordiality .
`` Because I 'm not half so silly as I seem on the surface , you know .
You just accept Philippa Gordon , as the Lord made her , with all her faults , and I believe you 'll come to like her .
Is n't this graveyard a sweet place ?
I 'd love to be buried here .
Here 's a grave I did n't see before -- this one in the iron railing -- oh , girls , look , see -- the stone says it 's the grave of a middy who was killed in the fight between the Shannon and the Chesapeake .
Just fancy ! ''
Anne paused by the railing and looked at the worn stone , her pulses thrilling with sudden excitement .
The old graveyard , with its over-arching trees and long aisles of shadows , faded from her sight .
Instead , she saw the Kingsport Harbor of nearly a century agone .
Out of the mist came slowly a great frigate , brilliant with `` the meteor flag of England . ''
Behind her was another , with a still , heroic form , wrapped in his own starry flag , lying on the quarter deck -- the gallant Lawrence .
Time 's finger had turned back his pages , and that was the Shannon sailing triumphant up the bay with the Chesapeake as her prize .
`` Come back , Anne Shirley -- come back , '' laughed Philippa , pulling her arm .
`` You 're a hundred years away from us .
Come back . ''
Anne came back with a sigh ; her eyes were shining softly .
`` I 've always loved that old story , '' she said , `` and although the English won that victory , I think it was because of the brave , defeated commander I love it .
This grave seems to bring it so near and make it so real .
This poor little middy was only eighteen .
He ` died of desperate wounds received in gallant action ' -- so reads his epitaph .
It is such as a soldier might wish for . ''
Before she turned away , Anne unpinned the little cluster of purple pansies she wore and dropped it softly on the grave of the boy who had perished in the great sea-duel .
`` Well , what do you think of our new friend ? ''
asked Priscilla , when Phil had left them .
`` I like her .
There is something very lovable about her , in spite of all her nonsense .
I believe , as she says herself , that she is n't half as silly as she sounds .
She 's a dear , kissable baby -- and I do n't know that she 'll ever really grow up . ''
`` I like her , too , '' said Priscilla , decidedly .
`` She talks as much about boys as Ruby Gillis does .
But it always enrages or sickens me to hear Ruby , whereas I just wanted to laugh good-naturedly at Phil .
Now , what is the why of that ? ''
`` There is a difference , '' said Anne meditatively .
`` I think it 's because Ruby is really so CONSCIOUS of boys .
She plays at love and love-making .
Besides , you feel , when she is boasting of her beaux that she is doing it to rub it well into you that you have n't half so many .
Now , when Phil talks of her beaux it sounds as if she was just speaking of chums .
She really looks upon boys as good comrades , and she is pleased when she has dozens of them tagging round , simply because she likes to be popular and to be thought popular .
Even Alex and Alonzo -- I 'll never be able to think of those two names separately after this -- are to her just two playfellows who want her to play with them all their lives .
I 'm glad we met her , and I 'm glad we went to Old St. John 's .
I believe I 've put forth a tiny soul-root into Kingsport soil this afternoon .
I hope so .
I hate to feel transplanted . ''
Chapter V Letters from Home For the next three weeks Anne and Priscilla continued to feel as strangers in a strange land .
Then , suddenly , everything seemed to fall into focus -- Redmond , professors , classes , students , studies , social doings .
Life became homogeneous again , instead of being made up of detached fragments .
The Freshmen , instead of being a collection of unrelated individuals , found themselves a class , with a class spirit , a class yell , class interests , class antipathies and class ambitions .
They won the day in the annual `` Arts Rush '' against the Sophomores , and thereby gained the respect of all the classes , and an enormous , confidence-giving opinion of themselves .
For three years the Sophomores had won in the `` rush '' ; that the victory of this year perched upon the Freshmen 's banner was attributed to the strategic generalship of Gilbert Blythe , who marshalled the campaign and originated certain new tactics , which demoralized the Sophs and swept the Freshmen to triumph .
As a reward of merit he was elected president of the Freshman Class , a position of honor and responsibility -- from a Fresh point of view , at least -- coveted by many .
He was also invited to join the `` Lambs '' -- Redmondese for Lamba Theta -- a compliment rarely paid to a Freshman .
As a preparatory initiation ordeal he had to parade the principal business streets of Kingsport for a whole day wearing a sunbonnet and a voluminous kitchen apron of gaudily flowered calico .
This he did cheerfully , doffing his sunbonnet with courtly grace when he met ladies of his acquaintance .
Charlie Sloane , who had not been asked to join the Lambs , told Anne he did not see how Blythe could do it , and HE , for his part , could never humiliate himself so .
`` Fancy Charlie Sloane in a ` caliker ' apron and a ` sunbunnit , ' '' giggled Priscilla .
`` He 'd look exactly like his old Grandmother Sloane .
Gilbert , now , looked as much like a man in them as in his own proper habiliments . ''
Anne and Priscilla found themselves in the thick of the social life of Redmond .
That this came about so speedily was due in great measure to Philippa Gordon .
Philippa was the daughter of a rich and well-known man , and belonged to an old and exclusive `` Bluenose '' family .
This , combined with her beauty and charm -- a charm acknowledged by all who met her -- promptly opened the gates of all cliques , clubs and classes in Redmond to her ; and where she went Anne and Priscilla went , too .
Phil `` adored '' Anne and Priscilla , especially Anne .
She was a loyal little soul , crystal-free from any form of snobbishness .
`` Love me , love my friends '' seemed to be her unconscious motto .
Without effort , she took them with her into her ever widening circle of acquaintanceship , and the two Avonlea girls found their social pathway at Redmond made very easy and pleasant for them , to the envy and wonderment of the other freshettes , who , lacking Philippa 's sponsorship , were doomed to remain rather on the fringe of things during their first college year .
To Anne and Priscilla , with their more serious views of life , Phil remained the amusing , lovable baby she had seemed on their first meeting .
Yet , as she said herself , she had `` heaps '' of brains .
When or where she found time to study was a mystery , for she seemed always in demand for some kind of `` fun , '' and her home evenings were crowded with callers .
She had all the `` beaux '' that heart could desire , for nine-tenths of the Freshmen and a big fraction of all the other classes were rivals for her smiles .
She was naively delighted over this , and gleefully recounted each new conquest to Anne and Priscilla , with comments that might have made the unlucky lover 's ears burn fiercely .
`` Alec and Alonzo do n't seem to have any serious rival yet , '' remarked Anne , teasingly .
`` Not one , '' agreed Philippa .
`` I write them both every week and tell them all about my young men here .
I 'm sure it must amuse them .
But , of course , the one I like best I ca n't get .
Gilbert Blythe wo n't take any notice of me , except to look at me as if I were a nice little kitten he 'd like to pat .
Too well I know the reason .
I owe you a grudge , Queen Anne .
I really ought to hate you and instead I love you madly , and I 'm miserable if I do n't see you every day .
You 're different from any girl I ever knew before .
When you look at me in a certain way I feel what an insignificant , frivolous little beast I am , and I long to be better and wiser and stronger .
And then I make good resolutions ; but the first nice-looking mannie who comes my way knocks them all out of my head .
Is n't college life magnificent ?
It 's so funny to think I hated it that first day .
But if I had n't I might never got really acquainted with you .
Anne , please tell me over again that you like me a little bit .
I yearn to hear it . ''
`` I like you a big bit -- and I think you 're a dear , sweet , adorable , velvety , clawless , little -- kitten , '' laughed Anne , `` but I do n't see when you ever get time to learn your lessons . ''
Phil must have found time for she held her own in every class of her year .
Even the grumpy old professor of Mathematics , who detested coeds , and had bitterly opposed their admission to Redmond , could n't floor her .
She led the freshettes everywhere , except in English , where Anne Shirley left her far behind .
Anne herself found the studies of her Freshman year very easy , thanks in great part to the steady work she and Gilbert had put in during those two past years in Avonlea .
This left her more time for a social life which she thoroughly enjoyed .
But never for a moment did she forget Avonlea and the friends there .
To her , the happiest moments in each week were those in which letters came from home .
It was not until she had got her first letters that she began to think she could ever like Kingsport or feel at home there .
Before they came , Avonlea had seemed thousands of miles away ; those letters brought it near and linked the old life to the new so closely that they began to seem one and the same , instead of two hopelessly segregated existences .
The first batch contained six letters , from Jane Andrews , Ruby Gillis , Diana Barry , Marilla , Mrs. Lynde and Davy .
Jane 's was a copperplate production , with every `` t '' nicely crossed and every `` i '' precisely dotted , and not an interesting sentence in it .
She never mentioned the school , concerning which Anne was avid to hear ; she never answered one of the questions Anne had asked in her letter .
But she told Anne how many yards of lace she had recently crocheted , and the kind of weather they were having in Avonlea , and how she intended to have her new dress made , and the way she felt when her head ached .
Ruby Gillis wrote a gushing epistle deploring Anne 's absence , assuring her she was horribly missed in everything , asking what the Redmond `` fellows '' were like , and filling the rest with accounts of her own harrowing experiences with her numerous admirers .
It was a silly , harmless letter , and Anne would have laughed over it had it not been for the postscript .
`` Gilbert seems to be enjoying Redmond , judging from his letters , '' wrote Ruby .
`` I do n't think Charlie is so stuck on it . ''
So Gilbert was writing to Ruby !
Very well .
He had a perfect right to , of course .
Only -- !!
Anne did not know that Ruby had written the first letter and that Gilbert had answered it from mere courtesy .
She tossed Ruby 's letter aside contemptuously .
But it took all Diana 's breezy , newsy , delightful epistle to banish the sting of Ruby 's postscript .
Diana 's letter contained a little too much Fred , but was otherwise crowded and crossed with items of interest , and Anne almost felt herself back in Avonlea while reading it .
Marilla 's was a rather prim and colorless epistle , severely innocent of gossip or emotion .
Yet somehow it conveyed to Anne a whiff of the wholesome , simple life at Green Gables , with its savor of ancient peace , and the steadfast abiding love that was there for her .
Mrs. Lynde 's letter was full of church news .
Having broken up housekeeping , Mrs. Lynde had more time than ever to devote to church affairs and had flung herself into them heart and soul .
She was at present much worked up over the poor `` supplies '' they were having in the vacant Avonlea pulpit .
`` I do n't believe any but fools enter the ministry nowadays , '' she wrote bitterly .
`` Such candidates as they have sent us , and such stuff as they preach !
Half of it ai n't true , and , what 's worse , it ai n't sound doctrine .
The one we have now is the worst of the lot .
He mostly takes a text and preaches about something else .
And he says he does n't believe all the heathen will be eternally lost .
The idea !
If they wo n't all the money we 've been giving to Foreign Missions will be clean wasted , that 's what !
Last Sunday night he announced that next Sunday he 'd preach on the axe-head that swam .
I think he 'd better confine himself to the Bible and leave sensational subjects alone .
Things have come to a pretty pass if a minister ca n't find enough in Holy Writ to preach about , that 's what .
What church do you attend , Anne ?
I hope you go regularly .
People are apt to get so careless about church-going away from home , and I understand college students are great sinners in this respect .
I 'm told many of them actually study their lessons on Sunday .
I hope you 'll never sink that low , Anne .
Remember how you were brought up .
And be very careful what friends you make .
You never know what sort of creatures are in them colleges .
Outwardly they may be as whited sepulchers and inwardly as ravening wolves , that 's what .
You 'd better not have anything to say to any young man who is n't from the Island .
`` I forgot to tell you what happened the day the minister called here .
It was the funniest thing I ever saw .
I said to Marilla , ` If Anne had been here would n't she have had a laugh ? '
Even Marilla laughed .
You know he 's a very short , fat little man with bow legs .
Well , that old pig of Mr. Harrison 's -- the big , tall one -- had wandered over here that day again and broke into the yard , and it got into the back porch , unbeknowns to us , and it was there when the minister appeared in the doorway .
It made one wild bolt to get out , but there was nowhere to bolt to except between them bow legs .
So there it went , and , being as it was so big and the minister so little , it took him clean off his feet and carried him away .
His hat went one way and his cane another , just as Marilla and I got to the door .
I 'll never forget the look of him .
And that poor pig was near scared to death .
I 'll never be able to read that account in the Bible of the swine that rushed madly down the steep place into the sea without seeing Mr. Harrison 's pig careering down the hill with that minister .
I guess the pig thought he had the Old Boy on his back instead of inside of him .
I was thankful the twins were n't about .
It would n't have been the right thing for them to have seen a minister in such an undignified predicament .
Just before they got to the brook the minister jumped off or fell off .
The pig rushed through the brook like mad and up through the woods .
Marilla and I run down and helped the minister get up and brush his coat .
He was n't hurt , but he was mad .
He seemed to hold Marilla and me responsible for it all , though we told him the pig did n't belong to us , and had been pestering us all summer .
Besides , what did he come to the back door for ?
You 'd never have caught Mr. Allan doing that .
It 'll be a long time before we get a man like Mr. Allan .
But it 's an ill wind that blows no good .
We 've never seen hoof or hair of that pig since , and it 's my belief we never will .
`` Things is pretty quiet in Avonlea .
I do n't find Green Gables as lonesome as I expected .
I think I 'll start another cotton warp quilt this winter .
Mrs. Silas Sloane has a handsome new apple-leaf pattern .
`` When I feel that I must have some excitement I read the murder trials in that Boston paper my niece sends me .
I never used to do it , but they 're real interesting .
The States must be an awful place .
I hope you 'll never go there , Anne .
But the way girls roam over the earth now is something terrible .
It always makes me think of Satan in the Book of Job , going to and fro and walking up and down .
I do n't believe the Lord ever intended it , that 's what .
`` Davy has been pretty good since you went away .
One day he was bad and Marilla punished him by making him wear Dora 's apron all day , and then he went and cut all Dora 's aprons up .
I spanked him for that and then he went and chased my rooster to death .
`` The MacPhersons have moved down to my place .
She 's a great housekeeper and very particular .
She 's rooted all my June lilies up because she says they make a garden look so untidy .
Thomas set them lilies out when we were married .
Her husband seems a nice sort of a man , but she ca n't get over being an old maid , that 's what .
`` Do n't study too hard , and be sure and put your winter underclothes on as soon as the weather gets cool .
Marilla worries a lot about you , but I tell her you 've got a lot more sense than I ever thought you would have at one time , and that you 'll be all right . ''
Davy 's letter plunged into a grievance at the start .
`` Dear anne , please write and tell marilla not to tie me to the rale of the bridge when I go fishing the boys make fun of me when she does .
Its awful lonesome here without you but grate fun in school .
Jane andrews is crosser than you .
I scared mrs. lynde with a jacky lantern last nite .
She was offel mad and she was mad cause I chased her old rooster round the yard till he fell down ded .
I did n't mean to make him fall down ded .
What made him die , anne , I want to know .
mrs. lynde threw him into the pig pen she mite of sold him to mr. blair .
mr. blair is giving 50 sense apeace for good ded roosters now .
I herd mrs. lynde asking the minister to pray for her .
What did she do that was so bad , anne , I want to know .
I 've got a kite with a magnificent tail , anne .
Milty bolter told me a grate story in school yesterday .
it is troo .
old Joe Mosey and Leon were playing cards one nite last week in the woods .
The cards were on a stump and a big black man bigger than the trees come along and grabbed the cards and the stump and disapered with a noys like thunder .
Ill bet they were skared .
Milty says the black man was the old harry .
was he , anne , I want to know .
Mr. kimball over at spenservale is very sick and will have to go to the hospitable .
please excuse me while I ask marilla if thats spelled rite .
Marilla says its the silem he has to go to not the other place .
He thinks he has a snake inside of him .
whats it like to have a snake inside of you , anne .
I want to know .
mrs. lawrence bell is sick to .
mrs. lynde says that all that is the matter with her is that she thinks too much about her insides . ''
`` I wonder , '' said Anne , as she folded up her letters , `` what Mrs. Lynde would think of Philippa . ''
Chapter VI In the Park `` What are you going to do with yourselves today , girls ? ''
asked Philippa , popping into Anne 's room one Saturday afternoon .
`` We are going for a walk in the park , '' answered Anne .
`` I ought to stay in and finish my blouse .
But I could n't sew on a day like this .
There 's something in the air that gets into my blood and makes a sort of glory in my soul .
My fingers would twitch and I 'd sew a crooked seam .
So it 's ho for the park and the pines . ''
`` Does ` we ' include any one but yourself and Priscilla ? ''
`` Yes , it includes Gilbert and Charlie , and we 'll be very glad if it will include you , also . ''
`` But , '' said Philippa dolefully , `` if I go I 'll have to be gooseberry , and that will be a new experience for Philippa Gordon . ''
`` Well , new experiences are broadening .
Come along , and you 'll be able to sympathize with all poor souls who have to play gooseberry often .
But where are all the victims ? ''
`` Oh , I was tired of them all and simply could n't be bothered with any of them today .
Besides , I 've been feeling a little blue -- just a pale , elusive azure .
It is n't serious enough for anything darker .
I wrote Alec and Alonzo last week .
I put the letters into envelopes and addressed them , but I did n't seal them up .
That evening something funny happened .
That is , Alec would think it funny , but Alonzo would n't be likely to .
I was in a hurry , so I snatched Alec 's letter -- as I thought -- out of the envelope and scribbled down a postscript .
Then I mailed both letters .
I got Alonzo 's reply this morning .
Girls , I had put that postscript to his letter and he was furious .
Of course he 'll get over it -- and I do n't care if he does n't -- but it spoiled my day .
So I thought I 'd come to you darlings to get cheered up .
After the football season opens I wo n't have any spare Saturday afternoons .
I adore football .
I 've got the most gorgeous cap and sweater striped in Redmond colors to wear to the games .
To be sure , a little way off I 'll look like a walking barber 's pole .
Do you know that that Gilbert of yours has been elected Captain of the Freshman football team ? ''
`` Yes , he told us so last evening , '' said Priscilla , seeing that outraged Anne would not answer .
`` He and Charlie were down .
We knew they were coming , so we painstakingly put out of sight or out of reach all Miss Ada 's cushions .
That very elaborate one with the raised embroidery I dropped on the floor in the corner behind the chair it was on .
I thought it would be safe there .
But would you believe it ?
Charlie Sloane made for that chair , noticed the cushion behind it , solemnly fished it up , and sat on it the whole evening .
Such a wreck of a cushion as it was !
Poor Miss Ada asked me today , still smiling , but oh , so reproachfully , why I had allowed it to be sat upon .
I told her I had n't -- that it was a matter of predestination coupled with inveterate Sloanishness and I was n't a match for both combined . ''
`` Miss Ada 's cushions are really getting on my nerves , '' said Anne .
`` She finished two new ones last week , stuffed and embroidered within an inch of their lives .
There being absolutely no other cushionless place to put them she stood them up against the wall on the stair landing .
They topple over half the time and if we come up or down the stairs in the dark we fall over them .
Last Sunday , when Dr. Davis prayed for all those exposed to the perils of the sea , I added in thought ` and for all those who live in houses where cushions are loved not wisely but too well ! '
There !
we 're ready , and I see the boys coming through Old St. John 's .
Do you cast in your lot with us , Phil ? ''
`` I 'll go , if I can walk with Priscilla and Charlie .
That will be a bearable degree of gooseberry .
That Gilbert of yours is a darling , Anne , but why does he go around so much with Goggle-eyes ? ''
Anne stiffened .
She had no great liking for Charlie Sloane ; but he was of Avonlea , so no outsider had any business to laugh at him .
`` Charlie and Gilbert have always been friends , '' she said coldly .
`` Charlie is a nice boy .
He 's not to blame for his eyes . ''
`` Do n't tell me that !
He is !
He must have done something dreadful in a previous existence to be punished with such eyes .
Pris and I are going to have such sport with him this afternoon .
We 'll make fun of him to his face and he 'll never know it . ''
Doubtless , `` the abandoned P 's , '' as Anne called them , did carry out their amiable intentions .
But Sloane was blissfully ignorant ; he thought he was quite a fine fellow to be walking with two such coeds , especially Philippa Gordon , the class beauty and belle .
It must surely impress Anne .
She would see that some people appreciated him at his real value .
Gilbert and Anne loitered a little behind the others , enjoying the calm , still beauty of the autumn afternoon under the pines of the park , on the road that climbed and twisted round the harbor shore .
`` The silence here is like a prayer , is n't it ? ''
said Anne , her face upturned to the shining sky .
`` How I love the pines !
They seem to strike their roots deep into the romance of all the ages .
It is so comforting to creep away now and then for a good talk with them .
I always feel so happy out here . '' ''
` And so in mountain solitudes o'ertaken As by some spell divine , Their cares drop from them like the needles shaken From out the gusty pine , ' '' quoted Gilbert .
`` They make our little ambitions seem rather petty , do n't they , Anne ? ''
`` I think , if ever any great sorrow came to me , I would come to the pines for comfort , '' said Anne dreamily .
`` I hope no great sorrow ever will come to you , Anne , '' said Gilbert , who could not connect the idea of sorrow with the vivid , joyous creature beside him , unwitting that those who can soar to the highest heights can also plunge to the deepest depths , and that the natures which enjoy most keenly are those which also suffer most sharply .
`` But there must -- sometime , '' mused Anne .
`` Life seems like a cup of glory held to my lips just now .
But there must be some bitterness in it -- there is in every cup .
I shall taste mine some day .
Well , I hope I shall be strong and brave to meet it .
And I hope it wo n't be through my own fault that it will come .
Do you remember what Dr. Davis said last Sunday evening -- that the sorrows God sent us brought comfort and strength with them , while the sorrows we brought on ourselves , through folly or wickedness , were by far the hardest to bear ?
But we must n't talk of sorrow on an afternoon like this .
It 's meant for the sheer joy of living , is n't it ? ''
`` If I had my way I 'd shut everything out of your life but happiness and pleasure , Anne , '' said Gilbert in the tone that meant `` danger ahead . ''
`` Then you would be very unwise , '' rejoined Anne hastily .
`` I 'm sure no life can be properly developed and rounded out without some trial and sorrow -- though I suppose it is only when we are pretty comfortable that we admit it .
Come -- the others have got to the pavilion and are beckoning to us . ''
They all sat down in the little pavilion to watch an autumn sunset of deep red fire and pallid gold .
To their left lay Kingsport , its roofs and spires dim in their shroud of violet smoke .
To their right lay the harbor , taking on tints of rose and copper as it stretched out into the sunset .
Before them the water shimmered , satin smooth and silver gray , and beyond , clean shaven William 's Island loomed out of the mist , guarding the town like a sturdy bulldog .
Its lighthouse beacon flared through the mist like a baleful star , and was answered by another in the far horizon .
`` Did you ever see such a strong-looking place ? ''
asked Philippa .
`` I do n't want William 's Island especially , but I 'm sure I could n't get it if I did .
Look at that sentry on the summit of the fort , right beside the flag .
Does n't he look as if he had stepped out of a romance ? ''
`` Speaking of romance , '' said Priscilla , `` we 've been looking for heather -- but , of course , we could n't find any .
It 's too late in the season , I suppose . ''
`` Heather ! ''
exclaimed Anne .
`` Heather does n't grow in America , does it ? ''
`` There are just two patches of it in the whole continent , '' said Phil , `` one right here in the park , and one somewhere else in Nova Scotia , I forget where .
The famous Highland Regiment , the Black Watch , camped here one year , and , when the men shook out the straw of their beds in the spring , some seeds of heather took root . ''
`` Oh , how delightful ! ''
said enchanted Anne .
`` Let 's go home around by Spofford Avenue , '' suggested Gilbert .
`` We can see all ` the handsome houses where the wealthy nobles dwell . '
Spofford Avenue is the finest residential street in Kingsport .
Nobody can build on it unless he 's a millionaire . ''
`` Oh , do , '' said Phil .
`` There 's a perfectly killing little place I want to show you , Anne .
IT was n't built by a millionaire .
It 's the first place after you leave the park , and must have grown while Spofford Avenue was still a country road .
It DID grow -- it was n't built !
I do n't care for the houses on the Avenue .
They 're too brand new and plateglassy .
But this little spot is a dream -- and its name -- but wait till you see it . ''
They saw it as they walked up the pine-fringed hill from the park .
Just on the crest , where Spofford Avenue petered out into a plain road , was a little white frame house with groups of pines on either side of it , stretching their arms protectingly over its low roof .
It was covered with red and gold vines , through which its green-shuttered windows peeped .
Before it was a tiny garden , surrounded by a low stone wall .
October though it was , the garden was still very sweet with dear , old-fashioned , unworldly flowers and shrubs -- sweet may , southern-wood , lemon verbena , alyssum , petunias , marigolds and chrysanthemums .
A tiny brick wall , in herring-bone pattern , led from the gate to the front porch .
The whole place might have been transplanted from some remote country village ; yet there was something about it that made its nearest neighbor , the big lawn-encircled palace of a tobacco king , look exceedingly crude and showy and ill-bred by contrast .
As Phil said , it was the difference between being born and being made .
`` It 's the dearest place I ever saw , '' said Anne delightedly .
`` It gives me one of my old , delightful funny aches .
It 's dearer and quainter than even Miss Lavendar 's stone house . ''
`` It 's the name I want you to notice especially , '' said Phil .
`` Look -- in white letters , around the archway over the gate .
` Patty 's Place . '
Is n't that killing ?
Especially on this Avenue of Pinehursts and Elmwolds and Cedarcrofts ?
` Patty 's Place , ' if you please !
I adore it . ''
`` Have you any idea who Patty is ? ''
asked Priscilla .
`` Patty Spofford is the name of the old lady who owns it , I 've discovered .
She lives there with her niece , and they 've lived there for hundreds of years , more or less -- maybe a little less , Anne .
Exaggeration is merely a flight of poetic fancy .
I understand that wealthy folk have tried to buy the lot time and again -- it 's really worth a small fortune now , you know -- but ` Patty ' wo n't sell upon any consideration .
And there 's an apple orchard behind the house in place of a back yard -- you 'll see it when we get a little past -- a real apple orchard on Spofford Avenue ! ''
`` I 'm going to dream about ` Patty 's Place ' tonight , '' said Anne .
`` Why , I feel as if I belonged to it .
I wonder if , by any chance , we 'll ever see the inside of it . ''
`` It is n't likely , '' said Priscilla .
Anne smiled mysteriously .
`` No , it is n't likely .
But I believe it will happen .
I have a queer , creepy , crawly feeling -- you can call it a presentiment , if you like -- that ` Patty 's Place ' and I are going to be better acquainted yet . ''
Chapter VII Home Again Those first three weeks at Redmond had seemed long ; but the rest of the term flew by on wings of wind .
Before they realized it the Redmond students found themselves in the grind of Christmas examinations , emerging therefrom more or less triumphantly .
The honor of leading in the Freshman classes fluctuated between Anne , Gilbert and Philippa ; Priscilla did very well ; Charlie Sloane scraped through respectably , and comported himself as complacently as if he had led in everything .
`` I ca n't really believe that this time tomorrow I 'll be in Green Gables , '' said Anne on the night before departure .
`` But I shall be .
And you , Phil , will be in Bolingbroke with Alec and Alonzo . ''
`` I 'm longing to see them , '' admitted Phil , between the chocolate she was nibbling .
`` They really are such dear boys , you know .
There 's to be no end of dances and drives and general jamborees .
I shall never forgive you , Queen Anne , for not coming home with me for the holidays . '' ''
` Never ' means three days with you , Phil .
It was dear of you to ask me -- and I 'd love to go to Bolingbroke some day .
But I ca n't go this year -- I MUST go home .
You do n't know how my heart longs for it . ''
`` You wo n't have much of a time , '' said Phil scornfully .
`` There 'll be one or two quilting parties , I suppose ; and all the old gossips will talk you over to your face and behind your back .
You 'll die of lonesomeness , child . ''
`` In Avonlea ? ''
said Anne , highly amused .
`` Now , if you 'd come with me you 'd have a perfectly gorgeous time .
Bolingbroke would go wild over you , Queen Anne -- your hair and your style and , oh , everything !
You 're so DIFFERENT .
You 'd be such a success -- and I would bask in reflected glory -- ` not the rose but near the rose . '
Do come , after all , Anne . ''
`` Your picture of social triumphs is quite fascinating , Phil , but I 'll paint one to offset it .
I 'm going home to an old country farmhouse , once green , rather faded now , set among leafless apple orchards .
There is a brook below and a December fir wood beyond , where I 've heard harps swept by the fingers of rain and wind .
There is a pond nearby that will be gray and brooding now .
There will be two oldish ladies in the house , one tall and thin , one short and fat ; and there will be two twins , one a perfect model , the other what Mrs. Lynde calls a ` holy terror . '
There will be a little room upstairs over the porch , where old dreams hang thick , and a big , fat , glorious feather bed which will almost seem the height of luxury after a boardinghouse mattress .
How do you like my picture , Phil ? ''
`` It seems a very dull one , '' said Phil , with a grimace .
`` Oh , but I 've left out the transforming thing , '' said Anne softly .
`` There 'll be love there , Phil -- faithful , tender love , such as I 'll never find anywhere else in the world -- love that 's waiting for me .
That makes my picture a masterpiece , does n't it , even if the colors are not very brilliant ? ''
Phil silently got up , tossed her box of chocolates away , went up to Anne , and put her arms about her .
`` Anne , I wish I was like you , '' she said soberly .
Diana met Anne at the Carmody station the next night , and they drove home together under silent , star-sown depths of sky .
Green Gables had a very festal appearance as they drove up the lane .
There was a light in every window , the glow breaking out through the darkness like flame-red blossoms swung against the dark background of the Haunted Wood .
And in the yard was a brave bonfire with two gay little figures dancing around it , one of which gave an unearthly yell as the buggy turned in under the poplars .
`` Davy means that for an Indian war-whoop , '' said Diana .
`` Mr. Harrison 's hired boy taught it to him , and he 's been practicing it up to welcome you with .
Mrs. Lynde says it has worn her nerves to a frazzle .
He creeps up behind her , you know , and then lets go .
He was determined to have a bonfire for you , too .
He 's been piling up branches for a fortnight and pestering Marilla to be let pour some kerosene oil over it before setting it on fire .
I guess she did , by the smell , though Mrs. Lynde said up to the last that Davy would blow himself and everybody else up if he was let . ''
Anne was out of the buggy by this time , and Davy was rapturously hugging her knees , while even Dora was clinging to her hand .
`` Is n't that a bully bonfire , Anne ?
Just let me show you how to poke it -- see the sparks ?
I did it for you , Anne , 'cause I was so glad you were coming home . ''
The kitchen door opened and Marilla 's spare form darkened against the inner light .
She preferred to meet Anne in the shadows , for she was horribly afraid that she was going to cry with joy -- she , stern , repressed Marilla , who thought all display of deep emotion unseemly .
Mrs. Lynde was behind her , sonsy , kindly , matronly , as of yore .
The love that Anne had told Phil was waiting for her surrounded her and enfolded her with its blessing and its sweetness .
Nothing , after all , could compare with old ties , old friends , and old Green Gables !
How starry Anne 's eyes were as they sat down to the loaded supper table , how pink her cheeks , how silver-clear her laughter !
And Diana was going to stay all night , too .
How like the dear old times it was !
And the rose-bud tea-set graced the table !
With Marilla the force of nature could no further go .
`` I suppose you and Diana will now proceed to talk all night , '' said Marilla sarcastically , as the girls went upstairs .
Marilla was always sarcastic after any self-betrayal .
`` Yes , '' agreed Anne gaily , `` but I 'm going to put Davy to bed first .
He insists on that . ''
`` You bet , '' said Davy , as they went along the hall .
`` I want somebody to say my prayers to again .
It 's no fun saying them alone . ''
`` You do n't say them alone , Davy .
God is always with you to hear you . ''
`` Well , I ca n't see Him , '' objected Davy .
`` I want to pray to somebody I can see , but I WO N'T say them to Mrs. Lynde or Marilla , there now ! ''
Nevertheless , when Davy was garbed in his gray flannel nighty , he did not seem in a hurry to begin .
He stood before Anne , shuffling one bare foot over the other , and looked undecided .
`` Come , dear , kneel down , '' said Anne .
Davy came and buried his head in Anne 's lap , but he did not kneel down .
`` Anne , '' he said in a muffled voice .
`` I do n't feel like praying after all .
I have n't felt like it for a week now .
I -- I DID N'T pray last night nor the night before . ''
`` Why not , Davy ? ''
asked Anne gently .
`` You -- you wo n't be mad if I tell you ? ''
implored Davy .
Anne lifted the little gray-flannelled body on her knee and cuddled his head on her arm .
`` Do I ever get ` mad ' when you tell me things , Davy ? ''
`` No-o-o , you never do .
But you get sorry , and that 's worse .
You 'll be awful sorry when I tell you this , Anne -- and you 'll be ` shamed of me , I s ` pose . ''
`` Have you done something naughty , Davy , and is that why you ca n't say your prayers ? ''
`` No , I have n't done anything naughty -- yet .
But I want to do it . ''
`` What is it , Davy ? ''
`` I -- I want to say a bad word , Anne , '' blurted out Davy , with a desperate effort .
`` I heard Mr. Harrison 's hired boy say it one day last week , and ever since I 've been wanting to say it ALL the time -- even when I 'm saying my prayers . ''
`` Say it then , Davy . ''
Davy lifted his flushed face in amazement .
`` But , Anne , it 's an AWFUL bad word . ''
`` SAY IT ! ''
Davy gave her another incredulous look , then in a low voice he said the dreadful word .
The next minute his face was burrowing against her .
`` Oh , Anne , I 'll never say it again -- never .
I 'll never WANT to say it again .
I knew it was bad , but I did n't s ` pose it was so -- so -- I did n't s ` pose it was like THAT . ''
`` No , I do n't think you 'll ever want to say it again , Davy -- or think it , either .
And I would n't go about much with Mr. Harrison 's hired boy if I were you . ''
`` He can make bully war-whoops , '' said Davy a little regretfully .
`` But you do n't want your mind filled with bad words , do you , Davy -- words that will poison it and drive out all that is good and manly ? ''
`` No , '' said Davy , owl-eyed with introspection .
`` Then do n't go with those people who use them .
And now do you feel as if you could say your prayers , Davy ? ''
`` Oh , yes , '' said Davy , eagerly wriggling down on his knees , `` I can say them now all right .
I ai n't scared now to say ` if I should die before I wake , ' like I was when I was wanting to say that word . ''
Probably Anne and Diana did empty out their souls to each other that night , but no record of their confidences has been preserved .
They both looked as fresh and bright-eyed at breakfast as only youth can look after unlawful hours of revelry and confession .
There had been no snow up to this time , but as Diana crossed the old log bridge on her homeward way the white flakes were beginning to flutter down over the fields and woods , russet and gray in their dreamless sleep .
Soon the far-away slopes and hills were dim and wraith-like through their gauzy scarfing , as if pale autumn had flung a misty bridal veil over her hair and was waiting for her wintry bridegroom .
So they had a white Christmas after all , and a very pleasant day it was .
In the forenoon letters and gifts came from Miss Lavendar and Paul ; Anne opened them in the cheerful Green Gables kitchen , which was filled with what Davy , sniffing in ecstasy , called `` pretty smells . ''
`` Miss Lavendar and Mr. Irving are settled in their new home now , '' reported Anne .
`` I am sure Miss Lavendar is perfectly happy -- I know it by the general tone of her letter -- but there 's a note from Charlotta the Fourth .
She does n't like Boston at all , and she is fearfully homesick .
Miss Lavendar wants me to go through to Echo Lodge some day while I 'm home and light a fire to air it , and see that the cushions are n't getting moldy .
I think I 'll get Diana to go over with me next week , and we can spend the evening with Theodora Dix .
I want to see Theodora .
By the way , is Ludovic Speed still going to see her ? ''
`` They say so , '' said Marilla , `` and he 's likely to continue it .
Folks have given up expecting that that courtship will ever arrive anywhere . ''
`` I 'd hurry him up a bit , if I was Theodora , that 's what , '' said Mrs. Lynde .
And there is not the slightest doubt but that she would .
There was also a characteristic scrawl from Philippa , full of Alec and Alonzo , what they said and what they did , and how they looked when they saw her .
`` But I ca n't make up my mind yet which to marry , '' wrote Phil .
`` I do wish you had come with me to decide for me .
Some one will have to .
When I saw Alec my heart gave a great thump and I thought , ` He might be the right one . '
And then , when Alonzo came , thump went my heart again .
So that 's no guide , though it should be , according to all the novels I 've ever read .
Now , Anne , YOUR heart would n't thump for anybody but the genuine Prince Charming , would it ?
There must be something radically wrong with mine .
But I 'm having a perfectly gorgeous time .
How I wish you were here !
It 's snowing today , and I 'm rapturous .
I was so afraid we 'd have a green Christmas and I loathe them .
You know , when Christmas is a dirty grayey-browney affair , looking as if it had been left over a hundred years ago and had been in soak ever since , it is called a GREEN Christmas !
Do n't ask me why .
As Lord Dundreary says , ` there are thome thingth no fellow can underthtand . '
`` Anne , did you ever get on a street car and then discover that you had n't any money with you to pay your fare ?
I did , the other day .
It 's quite awful .
I had a nickel with me when I got on the car .
I thought it was in the left pocket of my coat .
When I got settled down comfortably I felt for it .
It was n't there .
I had a cold chill .
I felt in the other pocket .
Not there .
I had another chill .
Then I felt in a little inside pocket .
All in vain .
I had two chills at once .
`` I took off my gloves , laid them on the seat , and went over all my pockets again .
It was not there .
I stood up and shook myself , and then looked on the floor .
The car was full of people , who were going home from the opera , and they all stared at me , but I was past caring for a little thing like that .
`` But I could not find my fare .
I concluded I must have put it in my mouth and swallowed it inadvertently .
`` I did n't know what to do .
Would the conductor , I wondered , stop the car and put me off in ignominy and shame ?
Was it possible that I could convince him that I was merely the victim of my own absentmindedness , and not an unprincipled creature trying to obtain a ride upon false pretenses ?
How I wished that Alec or Alonzo were there .
But they were n't because I wanted them .
If I HAD N'T wanted them they would have been there by the dozen .
And I could n't decide what to say to the conductor when he came around .
As soon as I got one sentence of explanation mapped out in my mind I felt nobody could believe it and I must compose another .
It seemed there was nothing to do but trust in Providence , and for all the comfort that gave me I might as well have been the old lady who , when told by the captain during a storm that she must put her trust in the Almighty exclaimed , ` Oh , Captain , is it as bad as that ? '
`` Just at the conventional moment , when all hope had fled , and the conductor was holding out his box to the passenger next to me , I suddenly remembered where I had put that wretched coin of the realm .
I had n't swallowed it after all .
I meekly fished it out of the index finger of my glove and poked it in the box .
I smiled at everybody and felt that it was a beautiful world . ''
The visit to Echo Lodge was not the least pleasant of many pleasant holiday outings .
Anne and Diana went back to it by the old way of the beech woods , carrying a lunch basket with them .
Echo Lodge , which had been closed ever since Miss Lavendar 's wedding , was briefly thrown open to wind and sunshine once more , and firelight glimmered again in the little rooms .
The perfume of Miss Lavendar 's rose bowl still filled the air .
It was hardly possible to believe that Miss Lavendar would not come tripping in presently , with her brown eyes a-star with welcome , and that Charlotta the Fourth , blue of bow and wide of smile , would not pop through the door .
Paul , too , seemed hovering around , with his fairy fancies .
`` It really makes me feel a little bit like a ghost revisiting the old time glimpses of the moon , '' laughed Anne .
`` Let 's go out and see if the echoes are at home .
Bring the old horn .
It is still behind the kitchen door . ''
The echoes were at home , over the white river , as silver-clear and multitudinous as ever ; and when they had ceased to answer the girls locked up Echo Lodge again and went away in the perfect half hour that follows the rose and saffron of a winter sunset .
Chapter VIII Anne 's First Proposal The old year did not slip away in a green twilight , with a pinky-yellow sunset .
Instead , it went out with a wild , white bluster and blow .
It was one of the nights when the storm-wind hurtles over the frozen meadows and black hollows , and moans around the eaves like a lost creature , and drives the snow sharply against the shaking panes .
`` Just the sort of night people like to cuddle down between their blankets and count their mercies , '' said Anne to Jane Andrews , who had come up to spend the afternoon and stay all night .
But when they were cuddled between their blankets , in Anne 's little porch room , it was not her mercies of which Jane was thinking .
`` Anne , '' she said very solemnly , `` I want to tell you something .
May I '' Anne was feeling rather sleepy after the party Ruby Gillis had given the night before .
She would much rather have gone to sleep than listen to Jane 's confidences , which she was sure would bore her .
She had no prophetic inkling of what was coming .
Probably Jane was engaged , too ; rumor averred that Ruby Gillis was engaged to the Spencervale schoolteacher , about whom all the girls were said to be quite wild .
`` I 'll soon be the only fancy-free maiden of our old quartet , '' thought Anne , drowsily .
Aloud she said , `` Of course . ''
`` Anne , '' said Jane , still more solemnly , `` what do you think of my brother Billy ? ''
Anne gasped over this unexpected question , and floundered helplessly in her thoughts .
Goodness , what DID she think of Billy Andrews ?
She had never thought ANYTHING about him -- round-faced , stupid , perpetually smiling , good-natured Billy Andrews .
Did ANYBODY ever think about Billy Andrews ?
`` I -- I do n't understand , Jane , '' she stammered .
`` What do you mean -- exactly ? ''
`` Do you like Billy ? ''
asked Jane bluntly .
`` Why -- why -- yes , I like him , of course , '' gasped Anne , wondering if she were telling the literal truth .
Certainly she did not DISlike Billy .
But could the indifferent tolerance with which she regarded him , when he happened to be in her range of vision , be considered positive enough for liking ?
WHAT was Jane trying to elucidate ?
`` Would you like him for a husband ? ''
asked Jane calmly .
`` A husband ! ''
Anne had been sitting up in bed , the better to wrestle with the problem of her exact opinion of Billy Andrews .
Now she fell flatly back on her pillows , the very breath gone out of her .
`` Whose husband ? ''
`` Yours , of course , '' answered Jane .
`` Billy wants to marry you .
He 's always been crazy about you -- and now father has given him the upper farm in his own name and there 's nothing to prevent him from getting married .
But he 's so shy he could n't ask you himself if you 'd have him , so he got me to do it .
I 'd rather not have , but he gave me no peace till I said I would , if I got a good chance .
What do you think about it , Anne ? ''
Was it a dream ?
Was it one of those nightmare things in which you find yourself engaged or married to some one you hate or do n't know , without the slightest idea how it ever came about ?
No , she , Anne Shirley , was lying there , wide awake , in her own bed , and Jane Andrews was beside her , calmly proposing for her brother Billy .
Anne did not know whether she wanted to writhe or laugh ; but she could do neither , for Jane 's feelings must not be hurt .
`` I -- I could n't marry Bill , you know , Jane , '' she managed to gasp .
`` Why , such an idea never occurred to me -- never ! ''
`` I do n't suppose it did , '' agreed Jane .
`` Billy has always been far too shy to think of courting .
But you might think it over , Anne .
Billy is a good fellow .
I must say that , if he is my brother .
He has no bad habits and he 's a great worker , and you can depend on him . '
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush . '
He told me to tell you he 'd be quite willing to wait till you got through college , if you insisted , though he 'd RATHER get married this spring before the planting begins .
He 'd always be very good to you , I 'm sure , and you know , Anne , I 'd love to have you for a sister . ''
`` I ca n't marry Billy , '' said Anne decidedly .
She had recovered her wits , and was even feeling a little angry .
It was all so ridiculous .
`` There is no use thinking of it , Jane .
I do n't care anything for him in that way , and you must tell him so . ''
`` Well , I did n't suppose you would , '' said Jane with a resigned sigh , feeling that she had done her best .
`` I told Billy I did n't believe it was a bit of use to ask you , but he insisted .
Well , you 've made your decision , Anne , and I hope you wo n't regret it . ''
Jane spoke rather coldly .
She had been perfectly sure that the enamored Billy had no chance at all of inducing Anne to marry him .
Nevertheless , she felt a little resentment that Anne Shirley , who was , after all , merely an adopted orphan , without kith or kin , should refuse her brother -- one of the Avonlea Andrews .
Well , pride sometimes goes before a fall , Jane reflected ominously .
Anne permitted herself to smile in the darkness over the idea that she might ever regret not marrying Billy Andrews .
`` I hope Billy wo n't feel very badly over it , '' she said nicely .
Jane made a movement as if she were tossing her head on her pillow .
`` Oh , he wo n't break his heart .
Billy has too much good sense for that .
He likes Nettie Blewett pretty well , too , and mother would rather he married her than any one .
She 's such a good manager and saver .
I think , when Billy is once sure you wo n't have him , he 'll take Nettie .
Please do n't mention this to any one , will you , Anne ? ''
`` Certainly not , '' said Anne , who had no desire whatever to publish abroad the fact that Billy Andrews wanted to marry her , preferring her , when all was said and done , to Nettie Blewett .
Nettie Blewett !
`` And now I suppose we 'd better go to sleep , '' suggested Jane .
To sleep went Jane easily and speedily ; but , though very unlike MacBeth in most respects , she had certainly contrived to murder sleep for Anne .
That proposed-to damsel lay on a wakeful pillow until the wee sma 's , but her meditations were far from being romantic .
It was not , however , until the next morning that she had an opportunity to indulge in a good laugh over the whole affair .
When Jane had gone home -- still with a hint of frost in voice and manner because Anne had declined so ungratefully and decidedly the honor of an alliance with the House of Andrews -- Anne retreated to the porch room , shut the door , and had her laugh out at last .
`` If I could only share the joke with some one ! ''
she thought .
`` But I ca n't .
Diana is the only one I 'd want to tell , and , even if I had n't sworn secrecy to Jane , I ca n't tell Diana things now .
She tells everything to Fred -- I know she does .
Well , I 've had my first proposal .
I supposed it would come some day -- but I certainly never thought it would be by proxy .
It 's awfully funny -- and yet there 's a sting in it , too , somehow . ''
Anne knew quite well wherein the sting consisted , though she did not put it into words .
She had had her secret dreams of the first time some one should ask her the great question .
And it had , in those dreams , always been very romantic and beautiful : and the `` some one '' was to be very handsome and dark-eyed and distinguished-looking and eloquent , whether he were Prince Charming to be enraptured with `` yes , '' or one to whom a regretful , beautifully worded , but hopeless refusal must be given .
If the latter , the refusal was to be expressed so delicately that it would be next best thing to acceptance , and he would go away , after kissing her hand , assuring her of his unalterable , life-long devotion .
And it would always be a beautiful memory , to be proud of and a little sad about , also .
And now , this thrilling experience had turned out to be merely grotesque .
Billy Andrews had got his sister to propose for him because his father had given him the upper farm ; and if Anne would n't `` have him '' Nettie Blewett would .
There was romance for you , with a vengeance !
Anne laughed -- and then sighed .
The bloom had been brushed from one little maiden dream .
Would the painful process go on until everything became prosaic and hum-drum ?
Chapter IX An Unwelcome Lover and a Welcome Friend The second term at Redmond sped as quickly as had the first -- `` actually whizzed away , '' Philippa said .
Anne enjoyed it thoroughly in all its phases -- the stimulating class rivalry , the making and deepening of new and helpful friendships , the gay little social stunts , the doings of the various societies of which she was a member , the widening of horizons and interests .
She studied hard , for she had made up her mind to win the Thorburn Scholarship in English .
This being won , meant that she could come back to Redmond the next year without trenching on Marilla 's small savings -- something Anne was determined she would not do .
Gilbert , too , was in full chase after a scholarship , but found plenty of time for frequent calls at Thirty-eight , St. John 's .
He was Anne 's escort at nearly all the college affairs , and she knew that their names were coupled in Redmond gossip .
Anne raged over this but was helpless ; she could not cast an old friend like Gilbert aside , especially when he had grown suddenly wise and wary , as behooved him in the dangerous proximity of more than one Redmond youth who would gladly have taken his place by the side of the slender , red-haired coed , whose gray eyes were as alluring as stars of evening .
Anne was never attended by the crowd of willing victims who hovered around Philippa 's conquering march through her Freshman year ; but there was a lanky , brainy Freshie , a jolly , little , round Sophomore , and a tall , learned Junior who all liked to call at Thirty-eight , St. John 's , and talk over ` ologies and ` isms , as well as lighter subjects , with Anne , in the becushioned parlor of that domicile .
Gilbert did not love any of them , and he was exceedingly careful to give none of them the advantage over him by any untimely display of his real feelings Anne-ward .
To her he had become again the boy-comrade of Avonlea days , and as such could hold his own against any smitten swain who had so far entered the lists against him .
As a companion , Anne honestly acknowledged nobody could be so satisfactory as Gilbert ; she was very glad , so she told herself , that he had evidently dropped all nonsensical ideas -- though she spent considerable time secretly wondering why .
Only one disagreeable incident marred that winter .
Charlie Sloane , sitting bolt upright on Miss Ada 's most dearly beloved cushion , asked Anne one night if she would promise `` to become Mrs. Charlie Sloane some day . ''
Coming after Billy Andrews ' proxy effort , this was not quite the shock to Anne 's romantic sensibilities that it would otherwise have been ; but it was certainly another heart-rending disillusion .
She was angry , too , for she felt that she had never given Charlie the slightest encouragement to suppose such a thing possible .
But what could you expect of a Sloane , as Mrs. Rachel Lynde would ask scornfully ?
Charlie 's whole attitude , tone , air , words , fairly reeked with Sloanishness .
`` He was conferring a great honor -- no doubt whatever about that .
And when Anne , utterly insensible to the honor , refused him , as delicately and considerately as she could -- for even a Sloane had feelings which ought not to be unduly lacerated -- Sloanishness still further betrayed itself .
Charlie certainly did not take his dismissal as Anne 's imaginary rejected suitors did .
Instead , he became angry , and showed it ; he said two or three quite nasty things ; Anne 's temper flashed up mutinously and she retorted with a cutting little speech whose keenness pierced even Charlie 's protective Sloanishness and reached the quick ; he caught up his hat and flung himself out of the house with a very red face ; Anne rushed upstairs , falling twice over Miss Ada 's cushions on the way , and threw herself on her bed , in tears of humiliation and rage .
Had she actually stooped to quarrel with a Sloane ?
Was it possible anything Charlie Sloane could say had power to make her angry ?
Oh , this was degradation , indeed -- worse even than being the rival of Nettie Blewett !
`` I wish I need never see the horrible creature again , '' she sobbed vindictively into her pillows .
She could not avoid seeing him again , but the outraged Charlie took care that it should not be at very close quarters .
Miss Ada 's cushions were henceforth safe from his depredations , and when he met Anne on the street , or in Redmond 's halls , his bow was icy in the extreme .
Relations between these two old schoolmates continued to be thus strained for nearly a year !
Then Charlie transferred his blighted affections to a round , rosy , snub-nosed , blue-eyed , little Sophomore who appreciated them as they deserved , whereupon he forgave Anne and condescended to be civil to her again ; in a patronizing manner intended to show her just what she had lost .
One day Anne scurried excitedly into Priscilla 's room .
`` Read that , '' she cried , tossing Priscilla a letter .
`` It 's from Stella -- and she 's coming to Redmond next year -- and what do you think of her idea ?
I think it 's a perfectly splendid one , if we can only carry it out .
Do you suppose we can , Pris ? ''
`` I 'll be better able to tell you when I find out what it is , '' said Priscilla , casting aside a Greek lexicon and taking up Stella 's letter .
Stella Maynard had been one of their chums at Queen 's Academy and had been teaching school ever since .
`` But I 'm going to give it up , Anne dear , '' she wrote , `` and go to college next year .
As I took the third year at Queen 's I can enter the Sophomore year .
I 'm tired of teaching in a back country school .
Some day I 'm going to write a treatise on ` The Trials of a Country Schoolmarm . '
It will be a harrowing bit of realism .
It seems to be the prevailing impression that we live in clover , and have nothing to do but draw our quarter 's salary .
My treatise shall tell the truth about us .
Why , if a week should pass without some one telling me that I am doing easy work for big pay I would conclude that I might as well order my ascension robe ` immediately and to onct . '
` Well , you get your money easy , ' some rate-payer will tell me , condescendingly .
` All you have to do is to sit there and hear lessons . '
I used to argue the matter at first , but I 'm wiser now .
Facts are stubborn things , but as some one has wisely said , not half so stubborn as fallacies .
So I only smile loftily now in eloquent silence .
Why , I have nine grades in my school and I have to teach a little of everything , from investigating the interiors of earthworms to the study of the solar system .
My youngest pupil is four -- his mother sends him to school to ` get him out of the way ' -- and my oldest twenty -- it ` suddenly struck him ' that it would be easier to go to school and get an education than follow the plough any longer .
In the wild effort to cram all sorts of research into six hours a day I do n't wonder if the children feel like the little boy who was taken to see the biograph . '
I have to look for what 's coming next before I know what went last , ' he complained .
I feel like that myself .
`` And the letters I get , Anne !
Tommy 's mother writes me that Tommy is not coming on in arithmetic as fast as she would like .
He is only in simple reduction yet , and Johnny Johnson is in fractions , and Johnny is n't half as smart as her Tommy , and she ca n't understand it .
And Susy 's father wants to know why Susy ca n't write a letter without misspelling half the words , and Dick 's aunt wants me to change his seat , because that bad Brown boy he is sitting with is teaching him to say naughty words .
`` As to the financial part -- but I 'll not begin on that .
Those whom the gods wish to destroy they first make country schoolmarms !
`` There , I feel better , after that growl .
After all , I 've enjoyed these past two years .
But I 'm coming to Redmond .
`` And now , Anne , I 've a little plan .
You know how I loathe boarding .
I 've boarded for four years and I 'm so tired of it .
I do n't feel like enduring three years more of it .
`` Now , why ca n't you and Priscilla and I club together , rent a little house somewhere in Kingsport , and board ourselves ?
It would be cheaper than any other way .
Of course , we would have to have a housekeeper and I have one ready on the spot .
You 've heard me speak of Aunt Jamesina ?
She 's the sweetest aunt that ever lived , in spite of her name .
She ca n't help that !
She was called Jamesina because her father , whose name was James , was drowned at sea a month before she was born .
I always call her Aunt Jimsie .
Well , her only daughter has recently married and gone to the foreign mission field .
Aunt Jamesina is left alone in a great big house , and she is horribly lonesome .
She will come to Kingsport and keep house for us if we want her , and I know you 'll both love her .
The more I think of the plan the more I like it .
We could have such good , independent times .
`` Now , if you and Priscilla agree to it , would n't it be a good idea for you , who are on the spot , to look around and see if you can find a suitable house this spring ?
That would be better than leaving it till the fall .
If you could get a furnished one so much the better , but if not , we can scare up a few sticks of finiture between us and old family friends with attics .
Anyhow , decide as soon as you can and write me , so that Aunt Jamesina will know what plans to make for next year . ''
`` I think it 's a good idea , '' said Priscilla .
`` So do I , '' agreed Anne delightedly .
`` Of course , we have a nice boardinghouse here , but , when all 's said and done , a boardinghouse is n't home .
So let 's go house-hunting at once , before exams come on . ''
`` I 'm afraid it will be hard enough to get a really suitable house , '' warned Priscilla .
`` Do n't expect too much , Anne .
Nice houses in nice localities will probably be away beyond our means .
We 'll likely have to content ourselves with a shabby little place on some street whereon live people whom to know is to be unknown , and make life inside compensate for the outside . ''
Accordingly they went house-hunting , but to find just what they wanted proved even harder than Priscilla had feared .
Houses there were galore , furnished and unfurnished ; but one was too big , another too small ; this one too expensive , that one too far from Redmond .
Exams were on and over ; the last week of the term came and still their `` house o'dreams , '' as Anne called it , remained a castle in the air .
`` We shall have to give up and wait till the fall , I suppose , '' said Priscilla wearily , as they rambled through the park on one of April 's darling days of breeze and blue , when the harbor was creaming and shimmering beneath the pearl-hued mists floating over it .
`` We may find some shack to shelter us then ; and if not , boardinghouses we shall have always with us . ''
`` I 'm not going to worry about it just now , anyway , and spoil this lovely afternoon , '' said Anne , gazing around her with delight .
The fresh chill air was faintly charged with the aroma of pine balsam , and the sky above was crystal clear and blue -- a great inverted cup of blessing .
`` Spring is singing in my blood today , and the lure of April is abroad on the air .
I 'm seeing visions and dreaming dreams , Pris .
That 's because the wind is from the west .
I do love the west wind .
It sings of hope and gladness , does n't it ?
When the east wind blows I always think of sorrowful rain on the eaves and sad waves on a gray shore .
When I get old I shall have rheumatism when the wind is east . ''
`` And is n't it jolly when you discard furs and winter garments for the first time and sally forth , like this , in spring attire ? ''
laughed Priscilla .
`` Do n't you feel as if you had been made over new ? ''
`` Everything is new in the spring , '' said Anne .
`` Springs themselves are always so new , too .
No spring is ever just like any other spring .
It always has something of its own to be its own peculiar sweetness .
See how green the grass is around that little pond , and how the willow buds are bursting . ''
`` And exams are over and gone -- the time of Convocation will come soon -- next Wednesday .
This day next week we 'll be home . ''
`` I 'm glad , '' said Anne dreamily .
`` There are so many things I want to do .
I want to sit on the back porch steps and feel the breeze blowing down over Mr. Harrison 's fields .
I want to hunt ferns in the Haunted Wood and gather violets in Violet Vale .
Do you remember the day of our golden picnic , Priscilla ?
I want to hear the frogs singing and the poplars whispering .
But I 've learned to love Kingsport , too , and I 'm glad I 'm coming back next fall .
If I had n't won the Thorburn I do n't believe I could have .
I COULD N'T take any of Marilla 's little hoard . ''
`` If we could only find a house ! ''
sighed Priscilla .
`` Look over there at Kingsport , Anne -- houses , houses everywhere , and not one for us . ''
`` Stop it , Pris .
` The best is yet to be . '
Like the old Roman , we 'll find a house or build one .
On a day like this there 's no such word as fail in my bright lexicon . ''
They lingered in the park until sunset , living in the amazing miracle and glory and wonder of the springtide ; and they went home as usual , by way of Spofford Avenue , that they might have the delight of looking at Patty 's Place .
`` I feel as if something mysterious were going to happen right away -- ` by the pricking of my thumbs , ' '' said Anne , as they went up the slope .
`` It 's a nice story-bookish feeling .
Why -- why -- why !
Priscilla Grant , look over there and tell me if it 's true , or am I seein ' things ? ''
Priscilla looked .
Anne 's thumbs and eyes had not deceived her .
Over the arched gateway of Patty 's Place dangled a little , modest sign .
It said `` To Let , Furnished .
Inquire Within . ''
`` Priscilla , '' said Anne , in a whisper , `` do you suppose it 's possible that we could rent Patty 's Place ? ''
`` No , I do n't , '' averred Priscilla .
`` It would be too good to be true .
Fairy tales do n't happen nowadays .
I wo n't hope , Anne .
The disappointment would be too awful to bear .
They 're sure to want more for it than we can afford .
Remember , it 's on Spofford Avenue . ''
`` We must find out anyhow , '' said Anne resolutely .
`` It 's too late to call this evening , but we 'll come tomorrow .
Oh , Pris , if we can get this darling spot !
I 've always felt that my fortunes were linked with Patty 's Place , ever since I saw it first . ''
Chapter X Patty 's Place The next evening found them treading resolutely the herring-bone walk through the tiny garden .
The April wind was filling the pine trees with its roundelay , and the grove was alive with robins -- great , plump , saucy fellows , strutting along the paths .
The girls rang rather timidly , and were admitted by a grim and ancient handmaiden .
The door opened directly into a large living-room , where by a cheery little fire sat two other ladies , both of whom were also grim and ancient .
Except that one looked to be about seventy and the other fifty , there seemed little difference between them .
Each had amazingly big , light-blue eyes behind steel-rimmed spectacles ; each wore a cap and a gray shawl ; each was knitting without haste and without rest ; each rocked placidly and looked at the girls without speaking ; and just behind each sat a large white china dog , with round green spots all over it , a green nose and green ears .
Those dogs captured Anne 's fancy on the spot ; they seemed like the twin guardian deities of Patty 's Place .
For a few minutes nobody spoke .
The girls were too nervous to find words , and neither the ancient ladies nor the china dogs seemed conversationally inclined .
Anne glanced about the room .
What a dear place it was !
Another door opened out of it directly into the pine grove and the robins came boldly up on the very step .
The floor was spotted with round , braided mats , such as Marilla made at Green Gables , but which were considered out of date everywhere else , even in Avonlea .
And yet here they were on Spofford Avenue !
A big , polished grandfather 's clock ticked loudly and solemnly in a corner .
There were delightful little cupboards over the mantelpiece , behind whose glass doors gleamed quaint bits of china .
The walls were hung with old prints and silhouettes .
In one corner the stairs went up , and at the first low turn was a long window with an inviting seat .
It was all just as Anne had known it must be .
By this time the silence had grown too dreadful , and Priscilla nudged Anne to intimate that she must speak .
`` We -- we -- saw by your sign that this house is to let , '' said Anne faintly , addressing the older lady , who was evidently Miss Patty Spofford .
`` Oh , yes , '' said Miss Patty .
`` I intended to take that sign down today . ''
`` Then -- then we are too late , '' said Anne sorrowfully .
`` You 've let it to some one else ? ''
`` No , but we have decided not to let it at all . ''
`` Oh , I 'm so sorry , '' exclaimed Anne impulsively .
`` I love this place so .
I did hope we could have got it . ''
Then did Miss Patty lay down her knitting , take off her specs , rub them , put them on again , and for the first time look at Anne as at a human being .
The other lady followed her example so perfectly that she might as well have been a reflection in a mirror .
`` You LOVE it , '' said Miss Patty with emphasis .
`` Does that mean that you really LOVE it ?
Or that you merely like the looks of it ?
The girls nowadays indulge in such exaggerated statements that one never can tell what they DO mean .
It was n't so in my young days .
THEN a girl did not say she LOVED turnips , in just the same tone as she might have said she loved her mother or her Savior . ''
Anne 's conscience bore her up .
`` I really do love it , '' she said gently .
`` I 've loved it ever since I saw it last fall .
My two college chums and I want to keep house next year instead of boarding , so we are looking for a little place to rent ; and when I saw that this house was to let I was so happy . ''
`` If you love it , you can have it , '' said Miss Patty .
`` Maria and I decided today that we would not let it after all , because we did not like any of the people who have wanted it .
We do n't HAVE to let it .
We can afford to go to Europe even if we do n't let it .
It would help us out , but not for gold will I let my home pass into the possession of such people as have come here and looked at it .
YOU are different .
I believe you do love it and will be good to it .
You can have it . ''
`` If -- if we can afford to pay what you ask for it , '' hesitated Anne .
Miss Patty named the amount required .
Anne and Priscilla looked at each other .
Priscilla shook her head .
`` I 'm afraid we ca n't afford quite so much , '' said Anne , choking back her disappointment .
`` You see , we are only college girls and we are poor . ''
`` What were you thinking you could afford ? ''
demanded Miss Patty , ceasing not to knit .
Anne named her amount .
Miss Patty nodded gravely .
`` That will do .
As I told you , it is not strictly necessary that we should let it at all .
We are not rich , but we have enough to go to Europe on .
I have never been in Europe in my life , and never expected or wanted to go .
But my niece there , Maria Spofford , has taken a fancy to go .
Now , you know a young person like Maria ca n't go globetrotting alone . ''
`` No -- I -- I suppose not , '' murmured Anne , seeing that Miss Patty was quite solemnly in earnest .
`` Of course not .
So I have to go along to look after her .
I expect to enjoy it , too ; I 'm seventy years old , but I 'm not tired of living yet .
I daresay I 'd have gone to Europe before if the idea had occurred to me .
We shall be away for two years , perhaps three .
We sail in June and we shall send you the key , and leave all in order for you to take possession when you choose .
We shall pack away a few things we prize especially , but all the rest will be left . ''
`` Will you leave the china dogs ? ''
asked Anne timidly .
`` Would you like me to ? ''
`` Oh , indeed , yes .
They are delightful . ''
A pleased expression came into Miss Patty 's face .
`` I think a great deal of those dogs , '' she said proudly .
`` They are over a hundred years old , and they have sat on either side of this fireplace ever since my brother Aaron brought them from London fifty years ago .
Spofford Avenue was called after my brother Aaron . ''
`` A fine man he was , '' said Miss Maria , speaking for the first time .
`` Ah , you do n't see the like of him nowadays . ''
`` He was a good uncle to you , Maria , '' said Miss Patty , with evident emotion .
`` You do well to remember him . ''
`` I shall always remember him , '' said Miss Maria solemnly .
`` I can see him , this minute , standing there before that fire , with his hands under his coat-tails , beaming on us . ''
Miss Maria took out her handkerchief and wiped her eyes ; but Miss Patty came resolutely back from the regions of sentiment to those of business .
`` I shall leave the dogs where they are , if you will promise to be very careful of them , '' she said .
`` Their names are Gog and Magog .
Gog looks to the right and Magog to the left .
And there 's just one thing more .
You do n't object , I hope , to this house being called Patty 's Place ? ''
`` No , indeed .
We think that is one of the nicest things about it . ''
`` You have sense , I see , '' said Miss Patty in a tone of great satisfaction .
`` Would you believe it ?
All the people who came here to rent the house wanted to know if they could n't take the name off the gate during their occupation of it .
I told them roundly that the name went with the house .
This has been Patty 's Place ever since my brother Aaron left it to me in his will , and Patty 's Place it shall remain until I die and Maria dies .
After that happens the next possessor can call it any fool name he likes , '' concluded Miss Patty , much as she might have said , `` After that -- the deluge . ''
`` And now , would n't you like to go over the house and see it all before we consider the bargain made ? ''
Further exploration still further delighted the girls .
Besides the big living-room , there was a kitchen and a small bedroom downstairs .
Upstairs were three rooms , one large and two small .
Anne took an especial fancy to one of the small ones , looking out into the big pines , and hoped it would be hers .
It was papered in pale blue and had a little , old-timey toilet table with sconces for candles .
There was a diamond-paned window with a seat under the blue muslin frills that would be a satisfying spot for studying or dreaming .
`` It 's all so delicious that I know we are going to wake up and find it a fleeting vision of the night , '' said Priscilla as they went away .
`` Miss Patty and Miss Maria are hardly such stuff as dreams are made of , '' laughed Anne .
`` Can you fancy them ` globe-trotting ' -- especially in those shawls and caps ? ''
`` I suppose they 'll take them off when they really begin to trot , '' said Priscilla , `` but I know they 'll take their knitting with them everywhere .
They simply could n't be parted from it .
They will walk about Westminster Abbey and knit , I feel sure .
Meanwhile , Anne , we shall be living in Patty 's Place -- and on Spofford Avenue .
I feel like a millionairess even now . ''
`` I feel like one of the morning stars that sang for joy , '' said Anne .
Phil Gordon crept into Thirty-eight , St. John 's , that night and flung herself on Anne 's bed .
`` Girls , dear , I 'm tired to death .
I feel like the man without a country -- or was it without a shadow ?
I forget which .
Anyway , I 've been packing up . ''
`` And I suppose you are worn out because you could n't decide which things to pack first , or where to put them , '' laughed Priscilla .
`` E-zackly .
And when I had got everything jammed in somehow , and my landlady and her maid had both sat on it while I locked it , I discovered I had packed a whole lot of things I wanted for Convocation at the very bottom .
I had to unlock the old thing and poke and dive into it for an hour before I fished out what I wanted .
I would get hold of something that felt like what I was looking for , and I 'd yank it up , and it would be something else .
No , Anne , I did NOT swear . ''
`` I did n't say you did . ''
`` Well , you looked it .
But I admit my thoughts verged on the profane .
And I have such a cold in the head -- I can do nothing but sniffle , sigh and sneeze .
Is n't that alliterative agony for you ?
Queen Anne , do say something to cheer me up . ''
`` Remember that next Thursday night , you 'll be back in the land of Alec and Alonzo , '' suggested Anne .
Phil shook her head dolefully .
`` More alliteration .
No , I do n't want Alec and Alonzo when I have a cold in the head .
But what has happened you two ?
Now that I look at you closely you seem all lighted up with an internal iridescence .
Why , you 're actually SHINING !
What 's up ? ''
`` We are going to live in Patty 's Place next winter , '' said Anne triumphantly .
`` Live , mark you , not board !
We 've rented it , and Stella Maynard is coming , and her aunt is going to keep house for us . ''
Phil bounced up , wiped her nose , and fell on her knees before Anne .
`` Girls -- girls -- let me come , too .
Oh , I 'll be so good .
If there 's no room for me I 'll sleep in the little doghouse in the orchard -- I 've seen it .
Only let me come . ''
`` Get up , you goose . ''
`` I wo n't stir off my marrow bones till you tell me I can live with you next winter . ''
Anne and Priscilla looked at each other .
Then Anne said slowly , `` Phil dear , we 'd love to have you .
But we may as well speak plainly .
I 'm poor -- Pris is poor -- Stella Maynard is poor -- our housekeeping will have to be very simple and our table plain .
You 'd have to live as we would .
Now , you are rich and your boardinghouse fare attests the fact . ''
`` Oh , what do I care for that ? ''
demanded Phil tragically .
`` Better a dinner of herbs where your chums are than a stalled ox in a lonely boardinghouse .
Do n't think I 'm ALL stomach , girls .
I 'll be willing to live on bread and water -- with just a LEETLE jam -- if you 'll let me come . ''
`` And then , '' continued Anne , `` there will be a good deal of work to be done .
Stella 's aunt ca n't do it all .
We all expect to have our chores to do .
Now , you -- '' `` Toil not , neither do I spin , '' finished Philippa .
`` But I 'll learn to do things .
You 'll only have to show me once .
I CAN make my own bed to begin with .
And remember that , though I ca n't cook , I CAN keep my temper .
That 's something .
And I NEVER growl about the weather .
That 's more .
Oh , please , please !
I never wanted anything so much in my life -- and this floor is awfully hard . ''
`` There 's just one more thing , '' said Priscilla resolutely .
`` You , Phil , as all Redmond knows , entertain callers almost every evening .
Now , at Patty 's Place we ca n't do that .
We have decided that we shall be at home to our friends on Friday evenings only .
If you come with us you 'll have to abide by that rule . ''
`` Well , you do n't think I 'll mind that , do you ?
Why , I 'm glad of it .
I knew I should have had some such rule myself , but I had n't enough decision to make it or stick to it .
When I can shuffle off the responsibility on you it will be a real relief .
If you wo n't let me cast in my lot with you I 'll die of the disappointment and then I 'll come back and haunt you .
I 'll camp on the very doorstep of Patty 's Place and you wo n't be able to go out or come in without falling over my spook . ''
Again Anne and Priscilla exchanged eloquent looks .
`` Well , '' said Anne , `` of course we ca n't promise to take you until we 've consulted with Stella ; but I do n't think she 'll object , and , as far as we are concerned , you may come and glad welcome . ''
`` If you get tired of our simple life you can leave us , and no questions asked , '' added Priscilla .
Phil sprang up , hugged them both jubilantly , and went on her way rejoicing .
`` I hope things will go right , '' said Priscilla soberly .
`` We must MAKE them go right , '' avowed Anne .
`` I think Phil will fit into our ` appy little ` ome very well . ''
`` Oh , Phil 's a dear to rattle round with and be chums .
And , of course , the more there are of us the easier it will be on our slim purses .
But how will she be to live with ?
You have to summer and winter with any one before you know if she 's LIVABLE or not . ''
`` Oh , well , we 'll all be put to the test , as far as that goes .
And we must quit us like sensible folk , living and let live .
Phil is n't selfish , though she 's a little thoughtless , and I believe we will all get on beautifully in Patty 's Place . ''
Chapter XI The Round of Life Anne was back in Avonlea with the luster of the Thorburn Scholarship on her brow .
People told her she had n't changed much , in a tone which hinted they were surprised and a little disappointed she had n't .
Avonlea had not changed , either .
At least , so it seemed at first .
But as Anne sat in the Green Gables pew , on the first Sunday after her return , and looked over the congregation , she saw several little changes which , all coming home to her at once , made her realize that time did not quite stand still , even in Avonlea .
A new minister was in the pulpit .
In the pews more than one familiar face was missing forever .
Old `` Uncle Abe , '' his prophesying over and done with , Mrs. Peter Sloane , who had sighed , it was to be hoped , for the last time , Timothy Cotton , who , as Mrs. Rachel Lynde said `` had actually managed to die at last after practicing at it for twenty years , '' and old Josiah Sloane , whom nobody knew in his coffin because he had his whiskers neatly trimmed , were all sleeping in the little graveyard behind the church .
And Billy Andrews was married to Nettie Blewett !
They `` appeared out '' that Sunday .
When Billy , beaming with pride and happiness , showed his be-plumed and be-silked bride into the Harmon Andrews ' pew , Anne dropped her lids to hide her dancing eyes .
She recalled the stormy winter night of the Christmas holidays when Jane had proposed for Billy .
He certainly had not broken his heart over his rejection .
Anne wondered if Jane had also proposed to Nettie for him , or if he had mustered enough spunk to ask the fateful question himself .
All the Andrews family seemed to share in his pride and pleasure , from Mrs. Harmon in the pew to Jane in the choir .
Jane had resigned from the Avonlea school and intended to go West in the fall .
`` Ca n't get a beau in Avonlea , that 's what , '' said Mrs. Rachel Lynde scornfully .
`` SAYS she thinks she 'll have better health out West .
I never heard her health was poor before . ''
`` Jane is a nice girl , '' Anne had said loyally .
`` She never tried to attract attention , as some did . ''
`` Oh , she never chased the boys , if that 's what you mean , '' said Mrs. Rachel .
`` But she 'd like to be married , just as much as anybody , that 's what .
What else would take her out West to some forsaken place whose only recommendation is that men are plenty and women scarce ?
Do n't you tell me ! ''
But it was not at Jane , Anne gazed that day in dismay and surprise .
It was at Ruby Gillis , who sat beside her in the choir .
What had happened to Ruby ?
She was even handsomer than ever ; but her blue eyes were too bright and lustrous , and the color of her cheeks was hectically brilliant ; besides , she was very thin ; the hands that held her hymn-book were almost transparent in their delicacy .
`` Is Ruby Gillis ill ? ''
Anne asked of Mrs. Lynde , as they went home from church .
`` Ruby Gillis is dying of galloping consumption , '' said Mrs. Lynde bluntly .
`` Everybody knows it except herself and her FAMILY .
They wo n't give in .
If you ask THEM , she 's perfectly well .
She has n't been able to teach since she had that attack of congestion in the winter , but she says she 's going to teach again in the fall , and she 's after the White Sands school .
She 'll be in her grave , poor girl , when White Sands school opens , that 's what . ''
Anne listened in shocked silence .
Ruby Gillis , her old school-chum , dying ?
Could it be possible ?
Of late years they had grown apart ; but the old tie of school-girl intimacy was there , and made itself felt sharply in the tug the news gave at Anne 's heartstrings .
Ruby , the brilliant , the merry , the coquettish !
It was impossible to associate the thought of her with anything like death .
She had greeted Anne with gay cordiality after church , and urged her to come up the next evening .
`` I 'll be away Tuesday and Wednesday evenings , '' she had whispered triumphantly .
`` There 's a concert at Carmody and a party at White Sands .
Herb Spencer 's going to take me .
He 's my LATEST .
Be sure to come up tomorrow .
I 'm dying for a good talk with you .
I want to hear all about your doings at Redmond . ''
Anne knew that Ruby meant that she wanted to tell Anne all about her own recent flirtations , but she promised to go , and Diana offered to go with her .
`` I 've been wanting to go to see Ruby for a long while , '' she told Anne , when they left Green Gables the next evening , `` but I really could n't go alone .
It 's so awful to hear Ruby rattling on as she does , and pretending there is nothing the matter with her , even when she can hardly speak for coughing .
She 's fighting so hard for her life , and yet she has n't any chance at all , they say . ''
The girls walked silently down the red , twilit road .
The robins were singing vespers in the high treetops , filling the golden air with their jubilant voices .
The silver fluting of the frogs came from marshes and ponds , over fields where seeds were beginning to stir with life and thrill to the sunshine and rain that had drifted over them .
The air was fragrant with the wild , sweet , wholesome smell of young raspberry copses .
White mists were hovering in the silent hollows and violet stars were shining bluely on the brooklands .
`` What a beautiful sunset , '' said Diana .
`` Look , Anne , it 's just like a land in itself , is n't it ?
That long , low back of purple cloud is the shore , and the clear sky further on is like a golden sea . ''
`` If we could sail to it in the moonshine boat Paul wrote of in his old composition -- you remember ?
-- how nice it would be , '' said Anne , rousing from her reverie .
`` Do you think we could find all our yesterdays there , Diana -- all our old springs and blossoms ?
The beds of flowers that Paul saw there are the roses that have bloomed for us in the past ? ''
`` Do n't ! ''
said Diana .
`` You make me feel as if we were old women with everything in life behind us . ''
`` I think I 've almost felt as if we were since I heard about poor Ruby , '' said Anne .
`` If it is true that she is dying any other sad thing might be true , too . ''
`` You do n't mind calling in at Elisha Wright 's for a moment , do you ? ''
asked Diana .
`` Mother asked me to leave this little dish of jelly for Aunt Atossa . ''
`` Who is Aunt Atossa ? ''
`` Oh , have n't you heard ?
She 's Mrs. Samson Coates of Spencervale -- Mrs. Elisha Wright 's aunt .
She 's father 's aunt , too .
Her husband died last winter and she was left very poor and lonely , so the Wrights took her to live with them .
Mother thought we ought to take her , but father put his foot down .
Live with Aunt Atossa he would not . ''
`` Is she so terrible ? ''
asked Anne absently .
`` You 'll probably see what she 's like before we can get away , '' said Diana significantly .
`` Father says she has a face like a hatchet -- it cuts the air .
But her tongue is sharper still . ''
Late as it was Aunt Atossa was cutting potato sets in the Wright kitchen .
She wore a faded old wrapper , and her gray hair was decidedly untidy .
Aunt Atossa did not like being `` caught in a kilter , '' so she went out of her way to be disagreeable .
`` Oh , so you 're Anne Shirley ? ''
she said , when Diana introduced Anne .
`` I 've heard of you . ''
Her tone implied that she had heard nothing good .
`` Mrs. Andrews was telling me you were home .
She said you had improved a good deal . ''
There was no doubt Aunt Atossa thought there was plenty of room for further improvement .
She ceased not from cutting sets with much energy .
`` Is it any use to ask you to sit down ? ''
she inquired sarcastically .
`` Of course , there 's nothing very entertaining here for you .
The rest are all away . ''
`` Mother sent you this little pot of rhubarb jelly , '' said Diana pleasantly .
`` She made it today and thought you might like some . ''
`` Oh , thanks , '' said Aunt Atossa sourly .
`` I never fancy your mother 's jelly -- she always makes it too sweet .
However , I 'll try to worry some down .
My appetite 's been dreadful poor this spring .
I 'm far from well , '' continued Aunt Atossa solemnly , `` but still I keep a-doing .
People who ca n't work are n't wanted here .
If it is n't too much trouble will you be condescending enough to set the jelly in the pantry ?
I 'm in a hurry to get these spuds done tonight .
I suppose you two LADIES never do anything like this .
You 'd be afraid of spoiling your hands . ''
`` I used to cut potato sets before we rented the farm , '' smiled Anne .
`` I do it yet , '' laughed Diana .
`` I cut sets three days last week .
Of course , '' she added teasingly , `` I did my hands up in lemon juice and kid gloves every night after it . ''
Aunt Atossa sniffed .
`` I suppose you got that notion out of some of those silly magazines you read so many of .
I wonder your mother allows you .
But she always spoiled you .
We all thought when George married her she would n't be a suitable wife for him . ''
Aunt Atossa sighed heavily , as if all forebodings upon the occasion of George Barry 's marriage had been amply and darkly fulfilled .
`` Going , are you ? ''
she inquired , as the girls rose .
`` Well , I suppose you ca n't find much amusement talking to an old woman like me .
It 's such a pity the boys ai n't home . ''
`` We want to run in and see Ruby Gillis a little while , '' explained Diana .
`` Oh , anything does for an excuse , of course , '' said Aunt Atossa , amiably .
`` Just whip in and whip out before you have time to say how-do decently .
It 's college airs , I s ` pose .
You 'd be wiser to keep away from Ruby Gillis .
The doctors say consumption 's catching .
I always knew Ruby 'd get something , gadding off to Boston last fall for a visit .
People who ai n't content to stay home always catch something . ''
`` People who do n't go visiting catch things , too .
Sometimes they even die , '' said Diana solemnly .
`` Then they do n't have themselves to blame for it , '' retorted Aunt Atossa triumphantly .
`` I hear you are to be married in June , Diana . ''
`` There is no truth in that report , '' said Diana , blushing .
`` Well , do n't put it off too long , '' said Aunt Atossa significantly .
`` You 'll fade soon -- you 're all complexion and hair .
And the Wrights are terrible fickle .
You ought to wear a hat , MISS SHIRLEY .
Your nose is freckling scandalous .
My , but you ARE redheaded !
Well , I s ` pose we 're all as the Lord made us !
Give Marilla Cuthbert my respects .
She 's never been to see me since I come to Avonlea , but I s ` pose I ought n't to complain .
The Cuthberts always did think themselves a cut higher than any one else round here . ''
`` Oh , is n't she dreadful ? ''
gasped Diana , as they escaped down the lane .
`` She 's worse than Miss Eliza Andrews , '' said Anne .
`` But then think of living all your life with a name like Atossa !
Would n't it sour almost any one ?
She should have tried to imagine her name was Cordelia .
It might have helped her a great deal .
It certainly helped me in the days when I did n't like ANNE . ''
`` Josie Pye will be just like her when she grows up , '' said Diana .
`` Josie 's mother and Aunt Atossa are cousins , you know .
Oh , dear , I 'm glad that 's over .
She 's so malicious -- she seems to put a bad flavor in everything .
Father tells such a funny story about her .
One time they had a minister in Spencervale who was a very good , spiritual man but very deaf .
He could n't hear any ordinary conversation at all .
Well , they used to have a prayer meeting on Sunday evenings , and all the church members present would get up and pray in turn , or say a few words on some Bible verse .
But one evening Aunt Atossa bounced up .
She did n't either pray or preach .
Instead , she lit into everybody else in the church and gave them a fearful raking down , calling them right out by name and telling them how they all had behaved , and casting up all the quarrels and scandals of the past ten years .
Finally she wound up by saying that she was disgusted with Spencervale church and she never meant to darken its door again , and she hoped a fearful judgment would come upon it .
Then she sat down out of breath , and the minister , who had n't heard a word she said , immediately remarked , in a very devout voice , ` amen !
The Lord grant our dear sister 's prayer ! '
You ought to hear father tell the story . ''
`` Speaking of stories , Diana , '' remarked Anne , in a significant , confidential tone , `` do you know that lately I have been wondering if I could write a short story -- a story that would be good enough to be published ? ''
`` Why , of course you could , '' said Diana , after she had grasped the amazing suggestion .
`` You used to write perfectly thrilling stories years ago in our old Story Club . ''
`` Well , I hardly meant one of that kind of stories , '' smiled Anne .
`` I 've been thinking about it a little of late , but I 'm almost afraid to try , for , if I should fail , it would be too humiliating . ''
`` I heard Priscilla say once that all Mrs. Morgan 's first stories were rejected .
But I 'm sure yours would n't be , Anne , for it 's likely editors have more sense nowadays . ''
`` Margaret Burton , one of the Junior girls at Redmond , wrote a story last winter and it was published in the Canadian Woman .
I really do think I could write one at least as good . ''
`` And will you have it published in the Canadian Woman ? ''
`` I might try one of the bigger magazines first .
It all depends on what kind of a story I write . ''
`` What is it to be about ? ''
`` I do n't know yet .
I want to get hold of a good plot .
I believe this is very necessary from an editor 's point of view .
The only thing I 've settled on is the heroine 's name .
It is to be AVERIL LESTER .
Rather pretty , do n't you think ?
Do n't mention this to any one , Diana .
I have n't told anybody but you and Mr. Harrison .
HE was n't very encouraging -- he said there was far too much trash written nowadays as it was , and he 'd expected something better of me , after a year at college . ''
`` What does Mr. Harrison know about it ? ''
demanded Diana scornfully .
They found the Gillis home gay with lights and callers .
Leonard Kimball , of Spencervale , and Morgan Bell , of Carmody , were glaring at each other across the parlor .
Several merry girls had dropped in .
Ruby was dressed in white and her eyes and cheeks were very brilliant .
She laughed and chattered incessantly , and after the other girls had gone she took Anne upstairs to display her new summer dresses .
`` I 've a blue silk to make up yet , but it 's a little heavy for summer wear .
I think I 'll leave it until the fall .
I 'm going to teach in White Sands , you know .
How do you like my hat ?
That one you had on in church yesterday was real dinky .
But I like something brighter for myself .
Did you notice those two ridiculous boys downstairs ?
They 've both come determined to sit each other out .
I do n't care a single bit about either of them , you know .
Herb Spencer is the one I like .
Sometimes I really do think he 's MR. RIGHT .
At Christmas I thought the Spencervale schoolmaster was that .
But I found out something about him that turned me against him .
He nearly went insane when I turned him down .
I wish those two boys had n't come tonight .
I wanted to have a nice good talk with you , Anne , and tell you such heaps of things .
You and I were always good chums , were n't we ? ''
Ruby slipped her arm about Anne 's waist with a shallow little laugh .
But just for a moment their eyes met , and , behind all the luster of Ruby 's , Anne saw something that made her heart ache .
`` Come up often , wo n't you , Anne ? ''
whispered Ruby .
`` Come alone -- I want you . ''
`` Are you feeling quite well , Ruby ? ''
`` Me !
Why , I 'm perfectly well .
I never felt better in my life .
Of course , that congestion last winter pulled me down a little .
But just see my color .
I do n't look much like an invalid , I 'm sure . ''
Ruby 's voice was almost sharp .
She pulled her arm away from Anne , as if in resentment , and ran downstairs , where she was gayer than ever , apparently so much absorbed in bantering her two swains that Diana and Anne felt rather out of it and soon went away .
Chapter XII `` Averil 's Atonement '' `` What are you dreaming of , Anne ? ''
The two girls were loitering one evening in a fairy hollow of the brook .
Ferns nodded in it , and little grasses were green , and wild pears hung finely-scented , white curtains around it .
Anne roused herself from her reverie with a happy sigh .
`` I was thinking out my story , Diana . ''
`` Oh , have you really begun it ? ''
cried Diana , all alight with eager interest in a moment .
`` Yes , I have only a few pages written , but I have it all pretty well thought out .
I 've had such a time to get a suitable plot .
None of the plots that suggested themselves suited a girl named AVERIL . ''
`` Could n't you have changed her name ? ''
`` No , the thing was impossible .
I tried to , but I could n't do it , any more than I could change yours .
AVERIL was so real to me that no matter what other name I tried to give her I just thought of her as AVERIL behind it all .
But finally I got a plot that matched her .
Then came the excitement of choosing names for all my characters .
You have no idea how fascinating that is .
I 've lain awake for hours thinking over those names .
The hero 's name is PERCEVAL DALRYMPLE . ''
`` Have you named ALL the characters ? ''
asked Diana wistfully .
`` If you had n't I was going to ask you to let me name one -- just some unimportant person .
I 'd feel as if I had a share in the story then . ''
`` You may name the little hired boy who lived with the LESTERS , '' conceded Anne .
`` He is not very important , but he is the only one left unnamed . ''
`` Call him RAYMOND FITZOSBORNE , '' suggested Diana , who had a store of such names laid away in her memory , relics of the old `` Story Club , '' which she and Anne and Jane Andrews and Ruby Gillis had had in their schooldays .
Anne shook her head doubtfully .
`` I 'm afraid that is too aristocratic a name for a chore boy , Diana .
I could n't imagine a Fitzosborne feeding pigs and picking up chips , could you ? ''
Diana did n't see why , if you had an imagination at all , you could n't stretch it to that extent ; but probably Anne knew best , and the chore boy was finally christened ROBERT RAY , to be called BOBBY should occasion require .
`` How much do you suppose you 'll get for it ? ''
asked Diana .
But Anne had not thought about this at all .
She was in pursuit of fame , not filthy lucre , and her literary dreams were as yet untainted by mercenary considerations .
`` You 'll let me read it , wo n't you ? ''
pleaded Diana .
`` When it is finished I 'll read it to you and Mr. Harrison , and I shall want you to criticize it SEVERELY .
No one else shall see it until it is published . ''
`` How are you going to end it -- happily or unhappily ? ''
`` I 'm not sure .
I 'd like it to end unhappily , because that would be so much more romantic .
But I understand editors have a prejudice against sad endings .
I heard Professor Hamilton say once that nobody but a genius should try to write an unhappy ending .
And , '' concluded Anne modestly , `` I 'm anything but a genius . ''
`` Oh I like happy endings best .
You 'd better let him marry her , '' said Diana , who , especially since her engagement to Fred , thought this was how every story should end .
`` But you like to cry over stories ? ''
`` Oh , yes , in the middle of them .
But I like everything to come right at last . ''
`` I must have one pathetic scene in it , '' said Anne thoughtfully .
`` I might let ROBERT RAY be injured in an accident and have a death scene . ''
`` No , you must n't kill BOBBY off , '' declared Diana , laughing .
`` He belongs to me and I want him to live and flourish .
Kill somebody else if you have to . ''
For the next fortnight Anne writhed or reveled , according to mood , in her literary pursuits .
Now she would be jubilant over a brilliant idea , now despairing because some contrary character would NOT behave properly .
Diana could not understand this .
`` MAKE them do as you want them to , '' she said .
`` I ca n't , '' mourned Anne .
`` Averil is such an unmanageable heroine .
She WILL do and say things I never meant her to .
Then that spoils everything that went before and I have to write it all over again . ''
Finally , however , the story was finished , and Anne read it to Diana in the seclusion of the porch gable .
She had achieved her `` pathetic scene '' without sacrificing ROBERT RAY , and she kept a watchful eye on Diana as she read it .
Diana rose to the occasion and cried properly ; but , when the end came , she looked a little disappointed .
`` Why did you kill MAURICE LENNOX ? ''
she asked reproachfully .
`` He was the villain , '' protested Anne .
`` He had to be punished . ''
`` I like him best of them all , '' said unreasonable Diana .
`` Well , he 's dead , and he 'll have to stay dead , '' said Anne , rather resentfully .
`` If I had let him live he 'd have gone on persecuting AVERIL and PERCEVAL . ''
`` Yes -- unless you had reformed him . ''
`` That would n't have been romantic , and , besides , it would have made the story too long . ''
`` Well , anyway , it 's a perfectly elegant story , Anne , and will make you famous , of that I 'm sure .
Have you got a title for it ? ''
`` Oh , I decided on the title long ago .
I call it AVERIL 'S ATONEMENT .
Does n't that sound nice and alliterative ?
Now , Diana , tell me candidly , do you see any faults in my story ? ''
`` Well , '' hesitated Diana , `` that part where AVERIL makes the cake does n't seem to me quite romantic enough to match the rest .
It 's just what anybody might do .
Heroines should n't do cooking , I think . ''
`` Why , that is where the humor comes in , and it 's one of the best parts of the whole story , '' said Anne .
And it may be stated that in this she was quite right .
Diana prudently refrained from any further criticism , but Mr. Harrison was much harder to please .
First he told her there was entirely too much description in the story .
`` Cut out all those flowery passages , '' he said unfeelingly .
Anne had an uncomfortable conviction that Mr. Harrison was right , and she forced herself to expunge most of her beloved descriptions , though it took three re-writings before the story could be pruned down to please the fastidious Mr. Harrison .
`` I 've left out ALL the descriptions but the sunset , '' she said at last .
`` I simply COULD N'T let it go .
It was the best of them all . ''
`` It has n't anything to do with the story , '' said Mr. Harrison , `` and you should n't have laid the scene among rich city people .
What do you know of them ?
Why did n't you lay it right here in Avonlea -- changing the name , of course , or else Mrs. Rachel Lynde would probably think she was the heroine . ''
`` Oh , that would never have done , '' protested Anne .
`` Avonlea is the dearest place in the world , but it is n't quite romantic enough for the scene of a story . ''
`` I daresay there 's been many a romance in Avonlea -- and many a tragedy , too , '' said Mr. Harrison drily .
`` But your folks ai n't like real folks anywhere .
They talk too much and use too high-flown language .
There 's one place where that DALRYMPLE chap talks even on for two pages , and never lets the girl get a word in edgewise .
If he 'd done that in real life she 'd have pitched him . ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' said Anne flatly .
In her secret soul she thought that the beautiful , poetical things said to AVERIL would win any girl 's heart completely .
Besides , it was gruesome to hear of AVERIL , the stately , queen-like AVERIL , `` pitching '' any one .
AVERIL `` declined her suitors . ''
`` Anyhow , '' resumed the merciless Mr. Harrison , `` I do n't see why MAURICE LENNOX did n't get her .
He was twice the man the other is .
He did bad things , but he did them .
Perceval had n't time for anything but mooning . ''
`` Mooning . ''
That was even worse than `` pitching ! ''
`` MAURICE LENNOX was the villain , '' said Anne indignantly .
`` I do n't see why every one likes him better than PERCEVAL . ''
`` Perceval is too good .
He 's aggravating .
Next time you write about a hero put a little spice of human nature in him . ''
`` AVERIL could n't have married MAURICE .
He was bad . ''
`` She 'd have reformed him .
You can reform a man ; you ca n't reform a jelly-fish , of course .
Your story is n't bad -- it 's kind of interesting , I 'll admit .
But you 're too young to write a story that would be worth while .
Wait ten years . ''
Anne made up her mind that the next time she wrote a story she would n't ask anybody to criticize it .
It was too discouraging .
She would not read the story to Gilbert , although she told him about it .
`` If it is a success you 'll see it when it is published , Gilbert , but if it is a failure nobody shall ever see it . ''
Marilla knew nothing about the venture .
In imagination Anne saw herself reading a story out of a magazine to Marilla , entrapping her into praise of it -- for in imagination all things are possible -- and then triumphantly announcing herself the author .
One day Anne took to the Post Office a long , bulky envelope , addressed , with the delightful confidence of youth and inexperience , to the very biggest of the `` big '' magazines .
Diana was as excited over it as Anne herself .
`` How long do you suppose it will be before you hear from it ? ''
she asked .
`` It should n't be longer than a fortnight .
Oh , how happy and proud I shall be if it is accepted ! ''
`` Of course it will be accepted , and they will likely ask you to send them more .
You may be as famous as Mrs. Morgan some day , Anne , and then how proud I 'll be of knowing you , '' said Diana , who possessed , at least , the striking merit of an unselfish admiration of the gifts and graces of her friends .
A week of delightful dreaming followed , and then came a bitter awakening .
One evening Diana found Anne in the porch gable , with suspicious-looking eyes .
On the table lay a long envelope and a crumpled manuscript .
`` Anne , your story has n't come back ? ''
cried Diana incredulously .
`` Yes , it has , '' said Anne shortly .
`` Well , that editor must be crazy .
What reason did he give ? ''
`` No reason at all .
There is just a printed slip saying that it was n't found acceptable . ''
`` I never thought much of that magazine , anyway , '' said Diana hotly .
`` The stories in it are not half as interesting as those in the Canadian Woman , although it costs so much more .
I suppose the editor is prejudiced against any one who is n't a Yankee .
Do n't be discouraged , Anne .
Remember how Mrs. Morgan 's stories came back .
Send yours to the Canadian Woman . ''
`` I believe I will , '' said Anne , plucking up heart .
`` And if it is published I 'll send that American editor a marked copy .
But I 'll cut the sunset out .
I believe Mr. Harrison was right . ''
Out came the sunset ; but in spite of this heroic mutilation the editor of the Canadian Woman sent Averil 's Atonement back so promptly that the indignant Diana declared that it could n't have been read at all , and vowed she was going to stop her subscription immediately .
Anne took this second rejection with the calmness of despair .
She locked the story away in the garret trunk where the old Story Club tales reposed ; but first she yielded to Diana 's entreaties and gave her a copy .
`` This is the end of my literary ambitions , '' she said bitterly .
She never mentioned the matter to Mr. Harrison , but one evening he asked her bluntly if her story had been accepted .
`` No , the editor would n't take it , '' she answered briefly .
Mr. Harrison looked sidewise at the flushed , delicate profile .
`` Well , I suppose you 'll keep on writing them , '' he said encouragingly .
`` No , I shall never try to write a story again , '' declared Anne , with the hopeless finality of nineteen when a door is shut in its face .
`` I would n't give up altogether , '' said Mr. Harrison reflectively .
`` I 'd write a story once in a while , but I would n't pester editors with it .
I 'd write of people and places like I knew , and I 'd make my characters talk everyday English ; and I 'd let the sun rise and set in the usual quiet way without much fuss over the fact .
If I had to have villains at all , I 'd give them a chance , Anne -- I 'd give them a chance .
There are some terrible bad men in the world , I suppose , but you 'd have to go a long piece to find them -- though Mrs. Lynde believes we 're all bad .
But most of us have got a little decency somewhere in us .
Keep on writing , Anne . ''
`` No .
It was very foolish of me to attempt it .
When I 'm through Redmond I 'll stick to teaching .
I can teach .
I ca n't write stories . ''
`` It 'll be time for you to be getting a husband when you 're through Redmond , '' said Mr. Harrison .
`` I do n't believe in putting marrying off too long -- like I did . ''
Anne got up and marched home .
There were times when Mr. Harrison was really intolerable .
`` Pitching , '' `` mooning , '' and `` getting a husband . ''
Ow !!
Chapter XIII The Way of Transgressors Davy and Dora were ready for Sunday School .
They were going alone , which did not often happen , for Mrs. Lynde always attended Sunday School .
But Mrs. Lynde had twisted her ankle and was lame , so she was staying home this morning .
The twins were also to represent the family at church , for Anne had gone away the evening before to spend Sunday with friends in Carmody , and Marilla had one of her headaches .
Davy came downstairs slowly .
Dora was waiting in the hall for him , having been made ready by Mrs. Lynde .
Davy had attended to his own preparations .
He had a cent in his pocket for the Sunday School collection , and a five-cent piece for the church collection ; he carried his Bible in one hand and his Sunday School quarterly in the other ; he knew his lesson and his Golden Text and his catechism question perfectly .
Had he not studied them -- perforce -- in Mrs. Lynde 's kitchen , all last Sunday afternoon ?
Davy , therefore , should have been in a placid frame of mind .
As a matter of fact , despite text and catechism , he was inwardly as a ravening wolf .
Mrs. Lynde limped out of her kitchen as he joined Dora .
`` Are you clean ? ''
she demanded severely .
`` Yes -- all of me that shows , '' Davy answered with a defiant scowl .
Mrs. Rachel sighed .
She had her suspicions about Davy 's neck and ears .
But she knew that if she attempted to make a personal examination Davy would likely take to his heels and she could not pursue him today .
`` Well , be sure you behave yourselves , '' she warned them .
`` Do n't walk in the dust .
Do n't stop in the porch to talk to the other children .
Do n't squirm or wriggle in your places .
Do n't forget the Golden Text .
Do n't lose your collection or forget to put it in .
Do n't whisper at prayer time , and do n't forget to pay attention to the sermon . ''
Davy deigned no response .
He marched away down the lane , followed by the meek Dora .
But his soul seethed within .
Davy had suffered , or thought he had suffered , many things at the hands and tongue of Mrs. Rachel Lynde since she had come to Green Gables , for Mrs. Lynde could not live with anybody , whether they were nine or ninety , without trying to bring them up properly .
And it was only the preceding afternoon that she had interfered to influence Marilla against allowing Davy to go fishing with the Timothy Cottons .
Davy was still boiling over this .
As soon as he was out of the lane Davy stopped and twisted his countenance into such an unearthly and terrific contortion that Dora , although she knew his gifts in that respect , was honestly alarmed lest he should never in the world be able to get it straightened out again .
`` Darn her , '' exploded Davy .
`` Oh , Davy , do n't swear , '' gasped Dora in dismay . ''
` Darn ' is n't swearing -- not real swearing .
And I do n't care if it is , '' retorted Davy recklessly .
`` Well , if you MUST say dreadful words do n't say them on Sunday , '' pleaded Dora .
Davy was as yet far from repentance , but in his secret soul he felt that , perhaps , he had gone a little too far .
`` I 'm going to invent a swear word of my own , '' he declared .
`` God will punish you if you do , '' said Dora solemnly .
`` Then I think God is a mean old scamp , '' retorted Davy .
`` Does n't He know a fellow must have some way of ` spressing his feelings ? ''
`` Davy !!! ''
said Dora .
She expected that Davy would be struck down dead on the spot .
But nothing happened .
`` Anyway , I ai n't going to stand any more of Mrs. Lynde 's bossing , '' spluttered Davy .
`` Anne and Marilla may have the right to boss me , but SHE has n't .
I 'm going to do every single thing she told me not to do .
You watch me . ''
In grim , deliberate silence , while Dora watched him with the fascination of horror , Davy stepped off the green grass of the roadside , ankle deep into the fine dust which four weeks of rainless weather had made on the road , and marched along in it , shuffling his feet viciously until he was enveloped in a hazy cloud .
`` That 's the beginning , '' he announced triumphantly .
`` And I 'm going to stop in the porch and talk as long as there 's anybody there to talk to .
I 'm going to squirm and wriggle and whisper , and I 'm going to say I do n't know the Golden Text .
And I 'm going to throw away both of my collections RIGHT NOW . ''
And Davy hurled cent and nickel over Mr. Barry 's fence with fierce delight .
`` Satan made you do that , '' said Dora reproachfully .
`` He did n't , '' cried Davy indignantly .
`` I just thought it out for myself .
And I 've thought of something else .
I 'm not going to Sunday School or church at all .
I 'm going up to play with the Cottons .
They told me yesterday they were n't going to Sunday School today , 'cause their mother was away and there was nobody to make them .
Come along , Dora , we 'll have a great time . ''
`` I do n't want to go , '' protested Dora .
`` You 've got to , '' said Davy .
`` If you do n't come I 'll tell Marilla that Frank Bell kissed you in school last Monday . ''
`` I could n't help it .
I did n't know he was going to , '' cried Dora , blushing scarlet .
`` Well , you did n't slap him or seem a bit cross , '' retorted Davy .
`` I 'll tell her THAT , too , if you do n't come .
We 'll take the short cut up this field . ''
`` I 'm afraid of those cows , '' protested poor Dora , seeing a prospect of escape .
`` The very idea of your being scared of those cows , '' scoffed Davy .
`` Why , they 're both younger than you . ''
`` They 're bigger , '' said Dora .
`` They wo n't hurt you .
Come along , now .
This is great .
When I grow up I ai n't going to bother going to church at all .
I believe I can get to heaven by myself . ''
`` You 'll go to the other place if you break the Sabbath day , '' said unhappy Dora , following him sorely against her will .
But Davy was not scared -- yet .
Hell was very far off , and the delights of a fishing expedition with the Cottons were very near .
He wished Dora had more spunk .
She kept looking back as if she were going to cry every minute , and that spoiled a fellow 's fun .
Hang girls , anyway .
Davy did not say `` darn '' this time , even in thought .
He was not sorry -- yet -- that he had said it once , but it might be as well not to tempt the Unknown Powers too far on one day .
The small Cottons were playing in their back yard , and hailed Davy 's appearance with whoops of delight .
Pete , Tommy , Adolphus , and Mirabel Cotton were all alone .
Their mother and older sisters were away .
Dora was thankful Mirabel was there , at least .
She had been afraid she would be alone in a crowd of boys .
Mirabel was almost as bad as a boy -- she was so noisy and sunburned and reckless .
But at least she wore dresses .
`` We 've come to go fishing , '' announced Davy .
`` Whoop , '' yelled the Cottons .
They rushed away to dig worms at once , Mirabel leading the van with a tin can .
Dora could have sat down and cried .
Oh , if only that hateful Frank Bell had never kissed her !
Then she could have defied Davy , and gone to her beloved Sunday School .
They dared not , of course , go fishing on the pond , where they would be seen by people going to church .
They had to resort to the brook in the woods behind the Cotton house .
But it was full of trout , and they had a glorious time that morning -- at least the Cottons certainly had , and Davy seemed to have it .
Not being entirely bereft of prudence , he had discarded boots and stockings and borrowed Tommy Cotton 's overalls .
Thus accoutered , bog and marsh and undergrowth had no terrors for him .
Dora was frankly and manifestly miserable .
She followed the others in their peregrinations from pool to pool , clasping her Bible and quarterly tightly and thinking with bitterness of soul of her beloved class where she should be sitting that very moment , before a teacher she adored .
Instead , here she was roaming the woods with those half-wild Cottons , trying to keep her boots clean and her pretty white dress free from rents and stains .
Mirabel had offered the loan of an apron but Dora had scornfully refused .
The trout bit as they always do on Sundays .
In an hour the transgressors had all the fish they wanted , so they returned to the house , much to Dora 's relief .
She sat primly on a hencoop in the yard while the others played an uproarious game of tag ; and then they all climbed to the top of the pig-house roof and cut their initials on the saddleboard .
The flat-roofed henhouse and a pile of straw beneath gave Davy another inspiration .
They spent a splendid half hour climbing on the roof and diving off into the straw with whoops and yells .
But even unlawful pleasures must come to an end .
When the rumble of wheels over the pond bridge told that people were going home from church Davy knew they must go .
He discarded Tommy 's overalls , resumed his own rightful attire , and turned away from his string of trout with a sigh .
No use to think of taking them home .
`` Well , had n't we a splendid time ? ''
he demanded defiantly , as they went down the hill field .
`` I had n't , '' said Dora flatly .
`` And I do n't believe you had -- really -- either , '' she added , with a flash of insight that was not to be expected of her .
`` I had so , '' cried Davy , but in the voice of one who doth protest too much .
`` No wonder you had n't -- just sitting there like a -- like a mule . ''
`` I ai n't going to , ` sociate with the Cottons , '' said Dora loftily .
`` The Cottons are all right , '' retorted Davy .
`` And they have far better times than we have .
They do just as they please and say just what they like before everybody .
I 'm going to do that , too , after this . ''
`` There are lots of things you would n't dare say before everybody , '' averred Dora .
`` No , there is n't . ''
`` There is , too .
Would you , '' demanded Dora gravely , `` would you say ` tomcat ' before the minister ? ''
This was a staggerer .
Davy was not prepared for such a concrete example of the freedom of speech .
But one did not have to be consistent with Dora .
`` Of course not , '' he admitted sulkily . ''
` Tomcat ' is n't a holy word .
I would n't mention such an animal before a minister at all . ''
`` But if you had to ? ''
persisted Dora .
`` I 'd call it a Thomas pussy , '' said Davy . ''
I think ` gentleman cat ' would be more polite , '' reflected Dora .
`` YOU thinking ! ''
retorted Davy with withering scorn .
Davy was not feeling comfortable , though he would have died before he admitted it to Dora .
Now that the exhilaration of truant delights had died away , his conscience was beginning to give him salutary twinges .
After all , perhaps it would have been better to have gone to Sunday School and church .
Mrs. Lynde might be bossy ; but there was always a box of cookies in her kitchen cupboard and she was not stingy .
At this inconvenient moment Davy remembered that when he had torn his new school pants the week before , Mrs. Lynde had mended them beautifully and never said a word to Marilla about them .
But Davy 's cup of iniquity was not yet full .
He was to discover that one sin demands another to cover it .
They had dinner with Mrs. Lynde that day , and the first thing she asked Davy was , `` Were all your class in Sunday School today ? ''
`` Yes 'm , '' said Davy with a gulp .
`` All were there -- ` cept one . ''
`` Did you say your Golden Text and catechism ? ''
`` Yes 'm . ''
`` Did you put your collection in ? ''
`` Yes 'm . ''
`` Was Mrs. Malcolm MacPherson in church ? ''
`` I do n't know . ''
This , at least , was the truth , thought wretched Davy .
`` Was the Ladies ' Aid announced for next week ? ''
`` Yes 'm '' -- quakingly .
`` Was prayer-meeting ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know . ''
`` YOU should know .
You should listen more attentively to the announcements .
What was Mr. Harvey 's text ? ''
Davy took a frantic gulp of water and swallowed it and the last protest of conscience together .
He glibly recited an old Golden Text learned several weeks ago .
Fortunately Mrs. Lynde now stopped questioning him ; but Davy did not enjoy his dinner .
He could only eat one helping of pudding .
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
demanded justly astonished Mrs. Lynde .
`` Are you sick ? ''
`` No , '' muttered Davy .
`` You look pale .
You 'd better keep out of the sun this afternoon , '' admonished Mrs. Lynde .
`` Do you know how many lies you told Mrs. Lynde ? ''
asked Dora reproachfully , as soon as they were alone after dinner .
Davy , goaded to desperation , turned fiercely .
`` I do n't know and I do n't care , '' he said .
`` You just shut up , Dora Keith . ''
Then poor Davy betook himself to a secluded retreat behind the woodpile to think over the way of transgressors .
Green Gables was wrapped in darkness and silence when Anne reached home .
She lost no time going to bed , for she was very tired and sleepy .
There had been several Avonlea jollifications the preceding week , involving rather late hours .
Anne 's head was hardly on her pillow before she was half asleep ; but just then her door was softly opened and a pleading voice said , `` Anne . ''
Anne sat up drowsily .
`` Davy , is that you ?
What is the matter ? ''
A white-clad figure flung itself across the floor and on to the bed .
`` Anne , '' sobbed Davy , getting his arms about her neck .
`` I 'm awful glad you 're home .
I could n't go to sleep till I 'd told somebody . ''
`` Told somebody what ? ''
`` How mis ` rubul I am . ''
`` Why are you miserable , dear ? '' ''
'Cause I was so bad today , Anne .
Oh , I was awful bad -- badder 'n I 've ever been yet . ''
`` What did you do ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm afraid to tell you .
You 'll never like me again , Anne .
I could n't say my prayers tonight .
I could n't tell God what I 'd done .
I was ` shamed to have Him know . ''
`` But He knew anyway , Davy . ''
`` That 's what Dora said .
But I thought p ` raps He might n't have noticed just at the time .
Anyway , I 'd rather tell you first . ''
`` WHAT is it you did ? ''
Out it all came in a rush .
`` I run away from Sunday School -- and went fishing with the Cottons -- and I told ever so many whoppers to Mrs. Lynde -- oh !
` most half a dozen -- and -- and -- I -- I said a swear word , Anne -- a pretty near swear word , anyhow -- and I called God names . ''
There was silence .
Davy did n't know what to make of it .
Was Anne so shocked that she never would speak to him again ?
`` Anne , what are you going to do to me ? ''
he whispered .
`` Nothing , dear .
You 've been punished already , I think . ''
`` No , I have n't .
Nothing 's been done to me . ''
`` You 've been very unhappy ever since you did wrong , have n't you ? ''
`` You bet ! ''
said Davy emphatically .
`` That was your conscience punishing you , Davy . ''
`` What 's my conscience ?
I want to know . ''
`` It 's something in you , Davy , that always tells you when you are doing wrong and makes you unhappy if you persist in doing it .
Have n't you noticed that ? ''
`` Yes , but I did n't know what it was .
I wish I did n't have it .
I 'd have lots more fun .
Where is my conscience , Anne ?
I want to know .
Is it in my stomach ? ''
`` No , it 's in your soul , '' answered Anne , thankful for the darkness , since gravity must be preserved in serious matters .
`` I s ` pose I ca n't get clear of it then , '' said Davy with a sigh .
`` Are you going to tell Marilla and Mrs. Lynde on me , Anne ? ''
`` No , dear , I 'm not going to tell any one .
You are sorry you were naughty , are n't you ? ''
`` You bet ! ''
`` And you 'll never be bad like that again . ''
`` No , but -- '' added Davy cautiously , `` I might be bad some other way . ''
`` You wo n't say naughty words , or run away on Sundays , or tell falsehoods to cover up your sins ? ''
`` No .
It does n't pay , '' said Davy .
`` Well , Davy , just tell God you are sorry and ask Him to forgive you . ''
`` Have YOU forgiven me , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , dear . ''
`` Then , '' said Davy joyously , `` I do n't care much whether God does or not . ''
`` Davy ! ''
`` Oh -- I 'll ask Him -- I 'll ask Him , '' said Davy quickly , scrambling off the bed , convinced by Anne 's tone that he must have said something dreadful .
`` I do n't mind asking Him , Anne .
-- Please , God , I 'm awful sorry I behaved bad today and I 'll try to be good on Sundays always and please forgive me .
-- There now , Anne . ''
`` Well , now , run off to bed like a good boy . ''
`` All right .
Say , I do n't feel mis ` rubul any more .
I feel fine .
Good night . ''
`` Good night . ''
Anne slipped down on her pillows with a sigh of relief .
Oh -- how sleepy -- she was !
In another second -- `` Anne ! ''
Davy was back again by her bed .
Anne dragged her eyes open .
`` What is it now , dear ? ''
she asked , trying to keep a note of impatience out of her voice .
`` Anne , have you ever noticed how Mr. Harrison spits ?
Do you s ` pose , if I practice hard , I can learn to spit just like him ? ''
Anne sat up .
`` Davy Keith , '' she said , `` go straight to your bed and do n't let me catch you out of it again tonight !
Go , now ! ''
Davy went , and stood not upon the order of his going .
Chapter XIV The Summons Anne was sitting with Ruby Gillis in the Gillis ' garden after the day had crept lingeringly through it and was gone .
It had been a warm , smoky summer afternoon .
The world was in a splendor of out-flowering .
The idle valleys were full of hazes .
The woodways were pranked with shadows and the fields with the purple of the asters .
Anne had given up a moonlight drive to the White Sands beach that she might spend the evening with Ruby .
She had so spent many evenings that summer , although she often wondered what good it did any one , and sometimes went home deciding that she could not go again .
Ruby grew paler as the summer waned ; the White Sands school was given up -- `` her father thought it better that she should n't teach till New Year 's '' -- and the fancy work she loved oftener and oftener fell from hands grown too weary for it .
But she was always gay , always hopeful , always chattering and whispering of her beaux , and their rivalries and despairs .
It was this that made Anne 's visits hard for her .
What had once been silly or amusing was gruesome , now ; it was death peering through a wilful mask of life .
Yet Ruby seemed to cling to her , and never let her go until she had promised to come again soon .
Mrs. Lynde grumbled about Anne 's frequent visits , and declared she would catch consumption ; even Marilla was dubious .
`` Every time you go to see Ruby you come home looking tired out , '' she said .
`` It 's so very sad and dreadful , '' said Anne in a low tone .
`` Ruby does n't seem to realize her condition in the least .
And yet I somehow feel she needs help -- craves it -- and I want to give it to her and ca n't .
All the time I 'm with her I feel as if I were watching her struggle with an invisible foe -- trying to push it back with such feeble resistance as she has .
That is why I come home tired . ''
But tonight Anne did not feel this so keenly .
Ruby was strangely quiet .
She said not a word about parties and drives and dresses and `` fellows . ''
She lay in the hammock , with her untouched work beside her , and a white shawl wrapped about her thin shoulders .
Her long yellow braids of hair -- how Anne had envied those beautiful braids in old schooldays !
-- lay on either side of her .
She had taken the pins out -- they made her head ache , she said .
The hectic flush was gone for the time , leaving her pale and childlike .
The moon rose in the silvery sky , empearling the clouds around her .
Below , the pond shimmered in its hazy radiance .
Just beyond the Gillis homestead was the church , with the old graveyard beside it .
The moonlight shone on the white stones , bringing them out in clear-cut relief against the dark trees behind .
`` How strange the graveyard looks by moonlight ! ''
said Ruby suddenly .
`` How ghostly ! ''
she shuddered .
`` Anne , it wo n't be long now before I 'll be lying over there .
You and Diana and all the rest will be going about , full of life -- and I 'll be there -- in the old graveyard -- dead ! ''
The surprise of it bewildered Anne .
For a few moments she could not speak .
`` You know it 's so , do n't you ? ''
said Ruby insistently .
`` Yes , I know , '' answered Anne in a low tone .
`` Dear Ruby , I know . ''
`` Everybody knows it , '' said Ruby bitterly .
`` I know it -- I 've known it all summer , though I would n't give in .
And , oh , Anne '' -- she reached out and caught Anne 's hand pleadingly , impulsively -- `` I do n't want to die .
I 'm AFRAID to die . ''
`` Why should you be afraid , Ruby ? ''
asked Anne quietly .
`` Because -- because -- oh , I 'm not afraid but that I 'll go to heaven , Anne .
I 'm a church member .
But -- it 'll be all so different .
I think -- and think -- and I get so frightened -- and -- and -- homesick .
Heaven must be very beautiful , of course , the Bible says so -- but , Anne , IT WO N'T BE WHAT I 'VE BEEN USED TO . ''
Through Anne 's mind drifted an intrusive recollection of a funny story she had heard Philippa Gordon tell -- the story of some old man who had said very much the same thing about the world to come .
It had sounded funny then -- she remembered how she and Priscilla had laughed over it .
But it did not seem in the least humorous now , coming from Ruby 's pale , trembling lips .
It was sad , tragic -- and true !
Heaven could not be what Ruby had been used to .
There had been nothing in her gay , frivolous life , her shallow ideals and aspirations , to fit her for that great change , or make the life to come seem to her anything but alien and unreal and undesirable .
Anne wondered helplessly what she could say that would help her .
Could she say anything ?
`` I think , Ruby , '' she began hesitatingly -- for it was difficult for Anne to speak to any one of the deepest thoughts of her heart , or the new ideas that had vaguely begun to shape themselves in her mind , concerning the great mysteries of life here and hereafter , superseding her old childish conceptions , and it was hardest of all to speak of them to such as Ruby Gillis -- `` I think , perhaps , we have very mistaken ideas about heaven -- what it is and what it holds for us .
I do n't think it can be so very different from life here as most people seem to think .
I believe we 'll just go on living , a good deal as we live here -- and be OURSELVES just the same -- only it will be easier to be good and to -- follow the highest .
All the hindrances and perplexities will be taken away , and we shall see clearly .
Do n't be afraid , Ruby . ''
`` I ca n't help it , '' said Ruby pitifully .
`` Even if what you say about heaven is true -- and you ca n't be sure -- it may be only that imagination of yours -- it wo n't be JUST the same .
It CA N'T be .
I want to go on living HERE .
I 'm so young , Anne .
I have n't had my life .
I 've fought so hard to live -- and it is n't any use -- I have to die -- and leave EVERYTHING I care for . ''
Anne sat in a pain that was almost intolerable .
She could not tell comforting falsehoods ; and all that Ruby said was so horribly true .
She WAS leaving everything she cared for .
She had laid up her treasures on earth only ; she had lived solely for the little things of life -- the things that pass -- forgetting the great things that go onward into eternity , bridging the gulf between the two lives and making of death a mere passing from one dwelling to the other -- from twilight to unclouded day .
God would take care of her there -- Anne believed -- she would learn -- but now it was no wonder her soul clung , in blind helplessness , to the only things she knew and loved .
Ruby raised herself on her arm and lifted up her bright , beautiful blue eyes to the moonlit skies .
`` I want to live , '' she said , in a trembling voice .
`` I want to live like other girls .
I -- I want to be married , Anne -- and -- and -- have little children .
You know I always loved babies , Anne .
I could n't say this to any one but you .
I know you understand .
And then poor Herb -- he -- he loves me and I love him , Anne .
The others meant nothing to me , but HE does -- and if I could live I would be his wife and be so happy .
Oh , Anne , it 's hard . ''
Ruby sank back on her pillows and sobbed convulsively .
Anne pressed her hand in an agony of sympathy -- silent sympathy , which perhaps helped Ruby more than broken , imperfect words could have done ; for presently she grew calmer and her sobs ceased .
`` I 'm glad I 've told you this , Anne , '' she whispered .
`` It has helped me just to say it all out .
I 've wanted to all summer -- every time you came .
I wanted to talk it over with you -- but I COULD N'T .
It seemed as if it would make death so SURE if I SAID I was going to die , or if any one else said it or hinted it .
I would n't say it , or even think it .
In the daytime , when people were around me and everything was cheerful , it was n't so hard to keep from thinking of it .
But in the night , when I could n't sleep -- it was so dreadful , Anne .
I could n't get away from it then .
Death just came and stared me in the face , until I got so frightened I could have screamed .
`` But you wo n't be frightened any more , Ruby , will you ?
You 'll be brave , and believe that all is going to be well with you . ''
`` I 'll try .
I 'll think over what you have said , and try to believe it .
And you 'll come up as often as you can , wo n't you , Anne ? ''
`` Yes , dear . ''
`` It -- it wo n't be very long now , Anne .
I feel sure of that .
And I 'd rather have you than any one else .
I always liked you best of all the girls I went to school with .
You were never jealous , or mean , like some of them were .
Poor Em White was up to see me yesterday .
You remember Em and I were such chums for three years when we went to school ?
And then we quarrelled the time of the school concert .
We 've never spoken to each other since .
Was n't it silly ?
Anything like that seems silly NOW .
But Em and I made up the old quarrel yesterday .
She said she 'd have spoken years ago , only she thought I would n't .
And I never spoke to her because I was sure she would n't speak to me .
Is n't it strange how people misunderstand each other , Anne ? ''
`` Most of the trouble in life comes from misunderstanding , I think , '' said Anne .
`` I must go now , Ruby .
It 's getting late -- and you should n't be out in the damp . ''
`` You 'll come up soon again . ''
`` Yes , very soon .
And if there 's anything I can do to help you I 'll be so glad . ''
`` I know .
You HAVE helped me already .
Nothing seems quite so dreadful now .
Good night , Anne . ''
`` Good night , dear . ''
Anne walked home very slowly in the moonlight .
The evening had changed something for her .
Life held a different meaning , a deeper purpose .
On the surface it would go on just the same ; but the deeps had been stirred .
It must not be with her as with poor butterfly Ruby .
When she came to the end of one life it must not be to face the next with the shrinking terror of something wholly different -- something for which accustomed thought and ideal and aspiration had unfitted her .
The little things of life , sweet and excellent in their place , must not be the things lived for ; the highest must be sought and followed ; the life of heaven must be begun here on earth .
That good night in the garden was for all time .
Anne never saw Ruby in life again .
The next night the A.V.I.S. gave a farewell party to Jane Andrews before her departure for the West .
And , while light feet danced and bright eyes laughed and merry tongues chattered , there came a summons to a soul in Avonlea that might not be disregarded or evaded .
The next morning the word went from house to house that Ruby Gillis was dead .
She had died in her sleep , painlessly and calmly , and on her face was a smile -- as if , after all , death had come as a kindly friend to lead her over the threshold , instead of the grisly phantom she had dreaded .
Mrs. Rachel Lynde said emphatically after the funeral that Ruby Gillis was the handsomest corpse she ever laid eyes on .
Her loveliness , as she lay , white-clad , among the delicate flowers that Anne had placed about her , was remembered and talked of for years in Avonlea .
Ruby had always been beautiful ; but her beauty had been of the earth , earthy ; it had had a certain insolent quality in it , as if it flaunted itself in the beholder 's eye ; spirit had never shone through it , intellect had never refined it .
But death had touched it and consecrated it , bringing out delicate modelings and purity of outline never seen before -- doing what life and love and great sorrow and deep womanhood joys might have done for Ruby .
Anne , looking down through a mist of tears , at her old playfellow , thought she saw the face God had meant Ruby to have , and remembered it so always .
Mrs. Gillis called Anne aside into a vacant room before the funeral procession left the house , and gave her a small packet .
`` I want you to have this , '' she sobbed .
`` Ruby would have liked you to have it .
It 's the embroidered centerpiece she was working at .
It is n't quite finished -- the needle is sticking in it just where her poor little fingers put it the last time she laid it down , the afternoon before she died . ''
`` There 's always a piece of unfinished work left , '' said Mrs. Lynde , with tears in her eyes .
`` But I suppose there 's always some one to finish it . ''
`` How difficult it is to realize that one we have always known can really be dead , '' said Anne , as she and Diana walked home .
`` Ruby is the first of our schoolmates to go .
One by one , sooner or later , all the rest of us must follow . ''
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' said Diana uncomfortably .
She did not want to talk of that .
She would have preferred to have discussed the details of the funeral -- the splendid white velvet casket Mr. Gillis had insisted on having for Ruby -- `` the Gillises must always make a splurge , even at funerals , '' quoth Mrs. Rachel Lynde -- Herb Spencer 's sad face , the uncontrolled , hysteric grief of one of Ruby 's sisters -- but Anne would not talk of these things .
She seemed wrapped in a reverie in which Diana felt lonesomely that she had neither lot nor part .
`` Ruby Gillis was a great girl to laugh , '' said Davy suddenly .
`` Will she laugh as much in heaven as she did in Avonlea , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
`` Yes , I think she will , '' said Anne .
`` Oh , Anne , '' protested Diana , with a rather shocked smile .
`` Well , why not , Diana ? ''
asked Anne seriously .
`` Do you think we 'll never laugh in heaven ? ''
`` Oh -- I -- I do n't know '' floundered Diana .
`` It does n't seem just right , somehow .
You know it 's rather dreadful to laugh in church . ''
`` But heaven wo n't be like church -- all the time , '' said Anne .
`` I hope it ai n't , '' said Davy emphatically .
`` If it is I do n't want to go .
Church is awful dull .
Anyway , I do n't mean to go for ever so long .
I mean to live to be a hundred years old , like Mr. Thomas Blewett of White Sands .
He says he 's lived so long 'cause he always smoked tobacco and it killed all the germs .
Can I smoke tobacco pretty soon , Anne ? ''
`` No , Davy , I hope you 'll never use tobacco , '' said Anne absently .
`` What 'll you feel like if the germs kill me then ? ''
demanded Davy .
Chapter XV A Dream Turned Upside Down `` Just one more week and we go back to Redmond , '' said Anne .
She was happy at the thought of returning to work , classes and Redmond friends .
Pleasing visions were also being woven around Patty 's Place .
There was a warm pleasant sense of home in the thought of it , even though she had never lived there .
But the summer had been a very happy one , too -- a time of glad living with summer suns and skies , a time of keen delight in wholesome things ; a time of renewing and deepening of old friendships ; a time in which she had learned to live more nobly , to work more patiently , to play more heartily .
`` All life lessons are not learned at college , '' she thought .
`` Life teaches them everywhere . ''
But alas , the final week of that pleasant vacation was spoiled for Anne , by one of those impish happenings which are like a dream turned upside down .
`` Been writing any more stories lately ? ''
inquired Mr. Harrison genially one evening when Anne was taking tea with him and Mrs. Harrison .
`` No , '' answered Anne , rather crisply .
`` Well , no offense meant .
Mrs. Hiram Sloane told me the other day that a big envelope addressed to the Rollings Reliable Baking Powder Company of Montreal had been dropped into the post office box a month ago , and she suspicioned that somebody was trying for the prize they 'd offered for the best story that introduced the name of their baking powder .
She said it was n't addressed in your writing , but I thought maybe it was you . ''
`` Indeed , no !
I saw the prize offer , but I 'd never dream of competing for it .
I think it would be perfectly disgraceful to write a story to advertise a baking powder .
It would be almost as bad as Judson Parker 's patent medicine fence . ''
So spake Anne loftily , little dreaming of the valley of humiliation awaiting her .
That very evening Diana popped into the porch gable , bright-eyed and rosy cheeked , carrying a letter .
`` Oh , Anne , here 's a letter for you .
I was at the office , so I thought I 'd bring it along .
Do open it quick .
If it is what I believe it is I shall just be wild with delight . ''
Anne , puzzled , opened the letter and glanced over the typewritten contents .
Miss Anne Shirley , Green Gables , Avonlea , P.E. Island .
`` DEAR MADAM : We have much pleasure in informing you that your charming story ` Averil 's Atonement ' has won the prize of twenty-five dollars offered in our recent competition .
We enclose the check herewith .
We are arranging for the publication of the story in several prominent Canadian newspapers , and we also intend to have it printed in pamphlet form for distribution among our patrons .
Thanking you for the interest you have shown in our enterprise , we remain , `` Yours very truly , `` THE ROLLINGS RELIABLE `` BAKING POWDER Co. '' `` I do n't understand , '' said Anne , blankly .
Diana clapped her hands .
`` Oh , I KNEW it would win the prize -- I was sure of it .
I sent your story into the competition , Anne . ''
`` Diana -- Barry ! ''
`` Yes , I did , '' said Diana gleefully , perching herself on the bed .
`` When I saw the offer I thought of your story in a minute , and at first I thought I 'd ask you to send it in .
But then I was afraid you would n't -- you had so little faith left in it .
So I just decided I 'd send the copy you gave me , and say nothing about it .
Then , if it did n't win the prize , you 'd never know and you would n't feel badly over it , because the stories that failed were not to be returned , and if it did you 'd have such a delightful surprise . ''
Diana was not the most discerning of mortals , but just at this moment it struck her that Anne was not looking exactly overjoyed .
The surprise was there , beyond doubt -- but where was the delight ?
`` Why , Anne , you do n't seem a bit pleased ! ''
she exclaimed .
Anne instantly manufactured a smile and put it on .
`` Of course I could n't be anything but pleased over your unselfish wish to give me pleasure , '' she said slowly .
`` But you know -- I 'm so amazed -- I ca n't realize it -- and I do n't understand .
There was n't a word in my story about -- about -- '' Anne choked a little over the word -- `` baking powder . ''
`` Oh , I put that in , '' said Diana , reassured .
`` It was as easy as wink -- and of course my experience in our old Story Club helped me .
You know the scene where Averil makes the cake ?
Well , I just stated that she used the Rollings Reliable in it , and that was why it turned out so well ; and then , in the last paragraph , where PERCEVAL clasps AVERIL in his arms and says , ` Sweetheart , the beautiful coming years will bring us the fulfilment of our home of dreams , ' I added , ` in which we will never use any baking powder except Rollings Reliable . ' ''
`` Oh , '' gasped poor Anne , as if some one had dashed cold water on her .
`` And you 've won the twenty-five dollars , '' continued Diana jubilantly .
`` Why , I heard Priscilla say once that the Canadian Woman only pays five dollars for a story ! ''
Anne held out the hateful pink slip in shaking fingers .
`` I ca n't take it -- it 's yours by right , Diana .
You sent the story in and made the alterations .
I -- I would certainly never have sent it .
So you must take the check . ''
`` I 'd like to see myself , '' said Diana scornfully .
`` Why , what I did was n't any trouble .
The honor of being a friend of the prizewinner is enough for me .
Well , I must go .
I should have gone straight home from the post office for we have company .
But I simply had to come and hear the news .
I 'm so glad for your sake , Anne . ''
Anne suddenly bent forward , put her arms about Diana , and kissed her cheek .
`` I think you are the sweetest and truest friend in the world , Diana , '' she said , with a little tremble in her voice , `` and I assure you I appreciate the motive of what you 've done . ''
Diana , pleased and embarrassed , got herself away , and poor Anne , after flinging the innocent check into her bureau drawer as if it were blood-money , cast herself on her bed and wept tears of shame and outraged sensibility .
Oh , she could never live this down -- never !
Gilbert arrived at dusk , brimming over with congratulations , for he had called at Orchard Slope and heard the news .
But his congratulations died on his lips at sight of Anne 's face .
`` Why , Anne , what is the matter ?
I expected to find you radiant over winning Rollings Reliable prize .
Good for you ! ''
`` Oh , Gilbert , not you , '' implored Anne , in an ET-TU BRUTE tone .
`` I thought YOU would understand .
Ca n't you see how awful it is ? ''
`` I must confess I ca n't .
WHAT is wrong ? ''
`` Everything , '' moaned Anne .
`` I feel as if I were disgraced forever .
What do you think a mother would feel like if she found her child tattooed over with a baking powder advertisement ?
I feel just the same .
I loved my poor little story , and I wrote it out of the best that was in me .
And it is SACRILEGE to have it degraded to the level of a baking powder advertisement .
Do n't you remember what Professor Hamilton used to tell us in the literature class at Queen 's ?
He said we were never to write a word for a low or unworthy motive , but always to cling to the very highest ideals .
What will he think when he hears I 've written a story to advertise Rollings Reliable ?
And , oh , when it gets out at Redmond !
Think how I 'll be teased and laughed at ! ''
`` That you wo n't , '' said Gilbert , wondering uneasily if it were that confounded Junior 's opinion in particular over which Anne was worried .
`` The Reds will think just as I thought -- that you , being like nine out of ten of us , not overburdened with worldly wealth , had taken this way of earning an honest penny to help yourself through the year .
I do n't see that there 's anything low or unworthy about that , or anything ridiculous either .
One would rather write masterpieces of literature no doubt -- but meanwhile board and tuition fees have to be paid . ''
This commonsense , matter-of-fact view of the case cheered Anne a little .
At least it removed her dread of being laughed at , though the deeper hurt of an outraged ideal remained .
Chapter XVI Adjusted Relationships `` It 's the homiest spot I ever saw -- it 's homier than home , '' avowed Philippa Gordon , looking about her with delighted eyes .
They were all assembled at twilight in the big living-room at Patty 's Place -- Anne and Priscilla , Phil and Stella , Aunt Jamesina , Rusty , Joseph , the Sarah-Cat , and Gog and Magog .
The firelight shadows were dancing over the walls ; the cats were purring ; and a huge bowl of hothouse chrysanthemums , sent to Phil by one of the victims , shone through the golden gloom like creamy moons .
It was three weeks since they had considered themselves settled , and already all believed the experiment would be a success .
The first fortnight after their return had been a pleasantly exciting one ; they had been busy setting up their household goods , organizing their little establishment , and adjusting different opinions .
Anne was not over-sorry to leave Avonlea when the time came to return to college .
The last few days of her vacation had not been pleasant .
Her prize story had been published in the Island papers ; and Mr. William Blair had , upon the counter of his store , a huge pile of pink , green and yellow pamphlets , containing it , one of which he gave to every customer .
He sent a complimentary bundle to Anne , who promptly dropped them all in the kitchen stove .
Her humiliation was the consequence of her own ideals only , for Avonlea folks thought it quite splendid that she should have won the prize .
Her many friends regarded her with honest admiration ; her few foes with scornful envy .
Josie Pye said she believed Anne Shirley had just copied the story ; she was sure she remembered reading it in a paper years before .
The Sloanes , who had found out or guessed that Charlie had been `` turned down , '' said they did n't think it was much to be proud of ; almost any one could have done it , if she tried .
Aunt Atossa told Anne she was very sorry to hear she had taken to writing novels ; nobody born and bred in Avonlea would do it ; that was what came of adopting orphans from goodness knew where , with goodness knew what kind of parents .
Even Mrs. Rachel Lynde was darkly dubious about the propriety of writing fiction , though she was almost reconciled to it by that twenty-five dollar check .
`` It is perfectly amazing , the price they pay for such lies , that 's what , '' she said , half-proudly , half-severely .
All things considered , it was a relief when going-away time came .
And it was very jolly to be back at Redmond , a wise , experienced Soph with hosts of friends to greet on the merry opening day .
Pris and Stella and Gilbert were there , Charlie Sloane , looking more important than ever a Sophomore looked before , Phil , with the Alec-and-Alonzo question still unsettled , and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson .
Moody Spurgeon had been teaching school ever since leaving Queen 's , but his mother had concluded it was high time he gave it up and turned his attention to learning how to be a minister .
Poor Moody Spurgeon fell on hard luck at the very beginning of his college career .
Half a dozen ruthless Sophs , who were among his fellow-boarders , swooped down upon him one night and shaved half of his head .
In this guise the luckless Moody Spurgeon had to go about until his hair grew again .
He told Anne bitterly that there were times when he had his doubts as to whether he was really called to be a minister .
Aunt Jamesina did not come until the girls had Patty 's Place ready for her .
Miss Patty had sent the key to Anne , with a letter in which she said Gog and Magog were packed in a box under the spare-room bed , but might be taken out when wanted ; in a postscript she added that she hoped the girls would be careful about putting up pictures .
The living room had been newly papered five years before and she and Miss Maria did not want any more holes made in that new paper than was absolutely necessary .
For the rest she trusted everything to Anne .
How those girls enjoyed putting their nest in order !
As Phil said , it was almost as good as getting married .
You had the fun of homemaking without the bother of a husband .
All brought something with them to adorn or make comfortable the little house .
Pris and Phil and Stella had knick-knacks and pictures galore , which latter they proceeded to hang according to taste , in reckless disregard of Miss Patty 's new paper .
`` We 'll putty the holes up when we leave , dear -- she 'll never know , '' they said to protesting Anne .
Diana had given Anne a pine needle cushion and Miss Ada had given both her and Priscilla a fearfully and wonderfully embroidered one .
Marilla had sent a big box of preserves , and darkly hinted at a hamper for Thanksgiving , and Mrs. Lynde gave Anne a patchwork quilt and loaned her five more .
`` You take them , '' she said authoritatively .
`` They might as well be in use as packed away in that trunk in the garret for moths to gnaw . ''
No moths would ever have ventured near those quilts , for they reeked of mothballs to such an extent that they had to be hung in the orchard of Patty 's Place a full fortnight before they could be endured indoors .
Verily , aristocratic Spofford Avenue had rarely beheld such a display .
The gruff old millionaire who lived `` next door '' came over and wanted to buy the gorgeous red and yellow `` tulip-pattern '' one which Mrs. Rachel had given Anne .
He said his mother used to make quilts like that , and by Jove , he wanted one to remind him of her .
Anne would not sell it , much to his disappointment , but she wrote all about it to Mrs. Lynde .
That highly-gratified lady sent word back that she had one just like it to spare , so the tobacco king got his quilt after all , and insisted on having it spread on his bed , to the disgust of his fashionable wife .
Mrs. Lynde 's quilts served a very useful purpose that winter .
Patty 's Place for all its many virtues , had its faults also .
It was really a rather cold house ; and when the frosty nights came the girls were very glad to snuggle down under Mrs. Lynde 's quilts , and hoped that the loan of them might be accounted unto her for righteousness .
Anne had the blue room she had coveted at sight .
Priscilla and Stella had the large one .
Phil was blissfully content with the little one over the kitchen ; and Aunt Jamesina was to have the downstairs one off the living-room .
Rusty at first slept on the doorstep .
Anne , walking home from Redmond a few days after her return , became aware that the people that she met surveyed her with a covert , indulgent smile .
Anne wondered uneasily what was the matter with her .
Was her hat crooked ?
Was her belt loose ?
Craning her head to investigate , Anne , for the first time , saw Rusty .
Trotting along behind her , close to her heels , was quite the most forlorn specimen of the cat tribe she had ever beheld .
The animal was well past kitten-hood , lank , thin , disreputable looking .
Pieces of both ears were lacking , one eye was temporarily out of repair , and one jowl ludicrously swollen .
As for color , if a once black cat had been well and thoroughly singed the result would have resembled the hue of this waif 's thin , draggled , unsightly fur .
Anne `` shooed , '' but the cat would not `` shoo . ''
As long as she stood he sat back on his haunches and gazed at her reproachfully out of his one good eye ; when she resumed her walk he followed .
Anne resigned herself to his company until she reached the gate of Patty 's Place , which she coldly shut in his face , fondly supposing she had seen the last of him .
But when , fifteen minutes later , Phil opened the door , there sat the rusty-brown cat on the step .
More , he promptly darted in and sprang upon Anne 's lap with a half-pleading , half-triumphant `` miaow . ''
`` Anne , '' said Stella severely , `` do you own that animal ? ''
`` No , I do NOT , '' protested disgusted Anne .
`` The creature followed me home from somewhere .
I could n't get rid of him .
Ugh , get down .
I like decent cats reasonably well ; but I do n't like beasties of your complexion . ''
Pussy , however , refused to get down .
He coolly curled up in Anne 's lap and began to purr .
`` He has evidently adopted you , '' laughed Priscilla .
`` I wo n't BE adopted , '' said Anne stubbornly .
`` The poor creature is starving , '' said Phil pityingly .
`` Why , his bones are almost coming through his skin . ''
`` Well , I 'll give him a square meal and then he must return to whence he came , '' said Anne resolutely .
The cat was fed and put out .
In the morning he was still on the doorstep .
On the doorstep he continued to sit , bolting in whenever the door was opened .
No coolness of welcome had the least effect on him ; of nobody save Anne did he take the least notice .
Out of compassion the girls fed him ; but when a week had passed they decided that something must be done .
The cat 's appearance had improved .
His eye and cheek had resumed their normal appearance ; he was not quite so thin ; and he had been seen washing his face .
`` But for all that we ca n't keep him , '' said Stella .
`` Aunt Jimsie is coming next week and she will bring the Sarah-cat with her .
We ca n't keep two cats ; and if we did this Rusty Coat would fight all the time with the Sarah-cat .
He 's a fighter by nature .
He had a pitched battle last evening with the tobacco-king 's cat and routed him , horse , foot and artillery . ''
`` We must get rid of him , '' agreed Anne , looking darkly at the subject of their discussion , who was purring on the hearth rug with an air of lamb-like meekness .
`` But the question is -- how ?
How can four unprotected females get rid of a cat who wo n't be got rid of ? ''
`` We must chloroform him , '' said Phil briskly .
`` That is the most humane way . ''
`` Who of us knows anything about chloroforming a cat ? ''
demanded Anne gloomily .
`` I do , honey .
It 's one of my few -- sadly few -- useful accomplishments .
I 've disposed of several at home .
You take the cat in the morning and give him a good breakfast .
Then you take an old burlap bag -- there 's one in the back porch -- put the cat on it and turn over him a wooden box .
Then take a two-ounce bottle of chloroform , uncork it , and slip it under the edge of the box .
Put a heavy weight on top of the box and leave it till evening .
The cat will be dead , curled up peacefully as if he were asleep .
No pain -- no struggle . ''
`` It sounds easy , '' said Anne dubiously .
`` It IS easy .
Just leave it to me .
I 'll see to it , '' said Phil reassuringly .
Accordingly the chloroform was procured , and the next morning Rusty was lured to his doom .
He ate his breakfast , licked his chops , and climbed into Anne 's lap .
Anne 's heart misgave her .
This poor creature loved her -- trusted her .
How could she be a party to this destruction ?
`` Here , take him , '' she said hastily to Phil .
`` I feel like a murderess . ''
`` He wo n't suffer , you know , '' comforted Phil , but Anne had fled .
The fatal deed was done in the back porch .
Nobody went near it that day .
But at dusk Phil declared that Rusty must be buried .
`` Pris and Stella must dig his grave in the orchard , '' declared Phil , `` and Anne must come with me to lift the box off .
That 's the part I always hate . ''
The two conspirators tip-toed reluctantly to the back porch .
Phil gingerly lifted the stone she had put on the box .
Suddenly , faint but distinct , sounded an unmistakable mew under the box .
`` He -- he is n't dead , '' gasped Anne , sitting blankly down on the kitchen doorstep .
`` He must be , '' said Phil incredulously .
Another tiny mew proved that he was n't .
The two girls stared at each other .
`` What will we do ? ''
questioned Anne .
`` Why in the world do n't you come ? ''
demanded Stella , appearing in the doorway .
`` We 've got the grave ready .
` What silent still and silent all ? ' ''
she quoted teasingly . ''
` Oh , no , the voices of the dead Sound like the distant torrent 's fall , ' '' promptly counter-quoted Anne , pointing solemnly to the box .
A burst of laughter broke the tension .
`` We must leave him here till morning , '' said Phil , replacing the stone .
`` He has n't mewed for five minutes .
Perhaps the mews we heard were his dying groan .
Or perhaps we merely imagined them , under the strain of our guilty consciences . ''
But , when the box was lifted in the morning , Rusty bounded at one gay leap to Anne 's shoulder where he began to lick her face affectionately .
Never was there a cat more decidedly alive .
`` Here 's a knot hole in the box , '' groaned Phil .
`` I never saw it .
That 's why he did n't die .
Now , we 've got to do it all over again . ''
`` No , we have n't , '' declared Anne suddenly .
`` Rusty is n't going to be killed again .
He 's my cat -- and you 've just got to make the best of it . ''
`` Oh , well , if you 'll settle with Aunt Jimsie and the Sarah-cat , '' said Stella , with the air of one washing her hands of the whole affair .
From that time Rusty was one of the family .
He slept o'nights on the scrubbing cushion in the back porch and lived on the fat of the land .
By the time Aunt Jamesina came he was plump and glossy and tolerably respectable .
But , like Kipling 's cat , he `` walked by himself . ''
His paw was against every cat , and every cat 's paw against him .
One by one he vanquished the aristocratic felines of Spofford Avenue .
As for human beings , he loved Anne and Anne alone .
Nobody else even dared stroke him .
An angry spit and something that sounded much like very improper language greeted any one who did .
`` The airs that cat puts on are perfectly intolerable , '' declared Stella .
`` Him was a nice old pussens , him was , '' vowed Anne , cuddling her pet defiantly .
`` Well , I do n't know how he and the Sarah-cat will ever make out to live together , '' said Stella pesimistically .
`` Cat-fights in the orchard o'nights are bad enough .
But cat-fights here in the livingroom are unthinkable . ''
In due time Aunt Jamesina arrived .
Anne and Priscilla and Phil had awaited her advent rather dubiously ; but when Aunt Jamesina was enthroned in the rocking chair before the open fire they figuratively bowed down and worshipped her .
Aunt Jamesina was a tiny old woman with a little , softly-triangular face , and large , soft blue eyes that were alight with unquenchable youth , and as full of hopes as a girl 's .
She had pink cheeks and snow-white hair which she wore in quaint little puffs over her ears .
`` It 's a very old-fashioned way , '' she said , knitting industriously at something as dainty and pink as a sunset cloud .
`` But I am old-fashioned .
My clothes are , and it stands to reason my opinions are , too .
I do n't say they 're any the better of that , mind you .
In fact , I daresay they 're a good deal the worse .
But they 've worn nice and easy .
New shoes are smarter than old ones , but the old ones are more comfortable .
I 'm old enough to indulge myself in the matter of shoes and opinions .
I mean to take it real easy here .
I know you expect me to look after you and keep you proper , but I 'm not going to do it .
You 're old enough to know how to behave if you 're ever going to be .
So , as far as I am concerned , '' concluded Aunt Jamesina , with a twinkle in her young eyes , `` you can all go to destruction in your own way . ''
`` Oh , will somebody separate those cats ? ''
pleaded Stella , shudderingly .
Aunt Jamesina had brought with her not only the Sarah-cat but Joseph .
Joseph , she explained , had belonged to a dear friend of hers who had gone to live in Vancouver .
`` She could n't take Joseph with her so she begged me to take him .
I really could n't refuse .
He 's a beautiful cat -- that is , his disposition is beautiful .
She called him Joseph because his coat is of many colors . ''
It certainly was .
Joseph , as the disgusted Stella said , looked like a walking rag-bag .
It was impossible to say what his ground color was .
His legs were white with black spots on them .
His back was gray with a huge patch of yellow on one side and a black patch on the other .
His tail was yellow with a gray tip .
One ear was black and one yellow .
A black patch over one eye gave him a fearfully rakish look .
In reality he was meek and inoffensive , of a sociable disposition .
In one respect , if in no other , Joseph was like a lily of the field .
He toiled not neither did he spin or catch mice .
Yet Solomon in all his glory slept not on softer cushions , or feasted more fully on fat things .
Joseph and the Sarah-cat arrived by express in separate boxes .
After they had been released and fed , Joseph selected the cushion and corner which appealed to him , and the Sarah-cat gravely sat herself down before the fire and proceeded to wash her face .
She was a large , sleek , gray-and-white cat , with an enormous dignity which was not at all impaired by any consciousness of her plebian origin .
She had been given to Aunt Jamesina by her washerwoman .
`` Her name was Sarah , so my husband always called puss the Sarah-cat , '' explained Aunt Jamesina .
`` She is eight years old , and a remarkable mouser .
Do n't worry , Stella .
The Sarah-cat NEVER fights and Joseph rarely . ''
`` They 'll have to fight here in self-defense , '' said Stella .
At this juncture Rusty arrived on the scene .
He bounded joyously half way across the room before he saw the intruders .
Then he stopped short ; his tail expanded until it was as big as three tails .
The fur on his back rose up in a defiant arch ; Rusty lowered his head , uttered a fearful shriek of hatred and defiance , and launched himself at the Sarah-cat .
The stately animal had stopped washing her face and was looking at him curiously .
She met his onslaught with one contemptuous sweep of her capable paw .
Rusty went rolling helplessly over on the rug ; he picked himself up dazedly .
What sort of a cat was this who had boxed his ears ?
He looked dubiously at the Sarah-cat .
Would he or would he not ?
The Sarah-cat deliberately turned her back on him and resumed her toilet operations .
Rusty decided that he would not .
He never did .
From that time on the Sarah-cat ruled the roost .
Rusty never again interfered with her .
But Joseph rashly sat up and yawned .
Rusty , burning to avenge his disgrace , swooped down upon him .
Joseph , pacific by nature , could fight upon occasion and fight well .
The result was a series of drawn battles .
Every day Rusty and Joseph fought at sight .
Anne took Rusty 's part and detested Joseph .
Stella was in despair .
But Aunt Jamesina only laughed .
`` Let them fight it out , '' she said tolerantly .
`` They 'll make friends after a bit .
Joseph needs some exercise -- he was getting too fat .
And Rusty has to learn he is n't the only cat in the world . ''
Eventually Joseph and Rusty accepted the situation and from sworn enemies became sworn friends .
They slept on the same cushion with their paws about each other , and gravely washed each other 's faces .
`` We 've all got used to each other , '' said Phil .
`` And I 've learned how to wash dishes and sweep a floor . ''
`` But you need n't try to make us believe you can chloroform a cat , '' laughed Anne .
`` It was all the fault of the knothole , '' protested Phil .
`` It was a good thing the knothole was there , '' said Aunt Jamesina rather severely .
`` Kittens HAVE to be drowned , I admit , or the world would be overrun .
But no decent , grown-up cat should be done to death -- unless he sucks eggs . ''
`` You would n't have thought Rusty very decent if you 'd seen him when he came here , '' said Stella .
`` He positively looked like the Old Nick . ''
`` I do n't believe Old Nick can be so very , ugly '' said Aunt Jamesina reflectively .
`` He would n't do so much harm if he was .
I always think of him as a rather handsome gentleman . ''
Chapter XVII A Letter from Davy `` It 's beginning to snow , girls , '' said Phil , coming in one November evening , `` and there are the loveliest little stars and crosses all over the garden walk .
I never noticed before what exquisite things snowflakes really are .
One has time to notice things like that in the simple life .
Bless you all for permitting me to live it .
It 's really delightful to feel worried because butter has gone up five cents a pound . ''
`` Has it ? ''
demanded Stella , who kept the household accounts .
`` It has -- and here 's your butter .
I 'm getting quite expert at marketing .
It 's better fun than flirting , '' concluded Phil gravely .
`` Everything is going up scandalously , '' sighed Stella .
`` Never mind .
Thank goodness air and salvation are still free , '' said Aunt Jamesina .
`` And so is laughter , '' added Anne .
`` There 's no tax on it yet and that is well , because you 're all going to laugh presently .
I 'm going to read you Davy 's letter .
His spelling has improved immensely this past year , though he is not strong on apostrophes , and he certainly possesses the gift of writing an interesting letter .
Listen and laugh , before we settle down to the evening 's study-grind . ''
`` Dear Anne , '' ran Davy 's letter , `` I take my pen to tell you that we are all pretty well and hope this will find you the same .
It 's snowing some today and Marilla says the old woman in the sky is shaking her feather beds .
Is the old woman in the sky God 's wife , Anne ?
I want to know .
`` Mrs. Lynde has been real sick but she is better now .
She fell down the cellar stairs last week .
When she fell she grabbed hold of the shelf with all the milk pails and stewpans on it , and it gave way and went down with her and made a splendid crash .
Marilla thought it was an earthquake at first .
`` One of the stewpans was all dinged up and Mrs. Lynde straned her ribs .
The doctor came and gave her medicine to rub on her ribs but she did n't under stand him and took it all inside instead .
The doctor said it was a wonder it dident kill her but it dident and it cured her ribs and Mrs. Lynde says doctors dont know much anyhow .
But we couldent fix up the stewpan .
Marilla had to throw it out .
Thanksgiving was last week .
There was no school and we had a great dinner .
I et mince pie and rost turkey and frut cake and donuts and cheese and jam and choklut cake .
Marilla said I 'd die but I dident .
Dora had earake after it , only it wasent in her ears it was in her stummick .
I dident have earake anywhere .
`` Our new teacher is a man .
He does things for jokes .
Last week he made all us third-class boys write a composishun on what kind of a wife we 'd like to have and the girls on what kind of a husband .
He laughed fit to kill when he read them .
This was mine .
I thought youd like to see it . ''
` The kind of a wife I 'd like to Have . ''
` She must have good manners and get my meals on time and do what I tell her and always be very polite to me .
She must be fifteen yers old .
She must be good to the poor and keep her house tidy and be good tempered and go to church regularly .
She must be very handsome and have curly hair .
If I get a wife that is just what I like Ill be an awful good husband to her .
I think a woman ought to be awful good to her husband .
Some poor women have n't any husbands . ''
` THE END . ' ''
`` I was at Mrs. Isaac Wrights funeral at White Sands last week .
The husband of the corpse felt real sorry .
Mrs. Lynde says Mrs. Wrights grandfather stole a sheep but Marilla says we mustent speak ill of the dead .
Why mustent we , Anne ?
I want to know .
It 's pretty safe , ai n't it ?
`` Mrs. Lynde was awful mad the other day because I asked her if she was alive in Noah 's time .
I dident mean to hurt her feelings .
I just wanted to know .
Was she , Anne ?
`` Mr. Harrison wanted to get rid of his dog .
So he hunged him once but he come to life and scooted for the barn while Mr. Harrison was digging the grave , so he hunged him again and he stayed dead that time .
Mr. Harrison has a new man working for him .
He 's awful okward .
Mr. Harrison says he is left handed in both his feet .
Mr. Barry 's hired man is lazy .
Mrs. Barry says that but Mr. Barry says he aint lazy exactly only he thinks it easier to pray for things than to work for them .
`` Mrs. Harmon Andrews prize pig that she talked so much of died in a fit .
Mrs. Lynde says it was a judgment on her for pride .
But I think it was hard on the pig .
Milty Boulter has been sick .
The doctor gave him medicine and it tasted horrid .
I offered to take it for him for a quarter but the Boulters are so mean .
Milty says he 'd rather take it himself and save his money .
I asked Mrs. Boulter how a person would go about catching a man and she got awful mad and said she dident know , shed never chased men .
`` The A.V.I.S. is going to paint the hall again .
They 're tired of having it blue .
`` The new minister was here to tea last night .
He took three pieces of pie .
If I did that Mrs. Lynde would call me piggy .
And he et fast and took big bites and Marilla is always telling me not to do that .
Why can ministers do what boys ca n't ?
I want to know .
`` I have n't any more news .
Here are six kisses .
xxxxxx .
Dora sends one .
Heres hers .
x. `` Your loving friend DAVID KEITH '' `` P.S. Anne , who was the devils father ?
I want to know . ''
Chapter XVIII Miss Josepine Remembers the Anne-girl When Christmas holidays came the girls of Patty 's Place scattered to their respective homes , but Aunt Jamesina elected to stay where she was .
`` I could n't go to any of the places I 've been invited and take those three cats , '' she said .
`` And I 'm not going to leave the poor creatures here alone for nearly three weeks .
If we had any decent neighbors who would feed them I might , but there 's nothing except millionaires on this street .
So I 'll stay here and keep Patty 's Place warm for you . ''
Anne went home with the usual joyous anticipations -- which were not wholly fulfilled .
She found Avonlea in the grip of such an early , cold , and stormy winter as even the `` oldest inhabitant '' could not recall .
Green Gables was literally hemmed in by huge drifts .
Almost every day of that ill-starred vacation it stormed fiercely ; and even on fine days it drifted unceasingly .
No sooner were the roads broken than they filled in again .
It was almost impossible to stir out .
The A.V.I.S. tried , on three evenings , to have a party in honor of the college students , and on each evening the storm was so wild that nobody could go , so they gave up the attempt in despair .
Anne , despite her love of and loyalty to Green Gables , could not help thinking longingly of Patty 's Place , its cosy open fire , Aunt Jamesina 's mirthful eyes , the three cats , the merry chatter of the girls , the pleasantness of Friday evenings when college friends dropped in to talk of grave and gay .
Anne was lonely ; Diana , during the whole of the holidays , was imprisoned at home with a bad attack of bronchitis .
She could not come to Green Gables and it was rarely Anne could get to Orchard Slope , for the old way through the Haunted Wood was impassable with drifts , and the long way over the frozen Lake of Shining Waters was almost as bad .
Ruby Gillis was sleeping in the white-heaped graveyard ; Jane Andrews was teaching a school on western prairies .
Gilbert , to be sure , was still faithful , and waded up to Green Gables every possible evening .
But Gilbert 's visits were not what they once were .
Anne almost dreaded them .
It was very disconcerting to look up in the midst of a sudden silence and find Gilbert 's hazel eyes fixed upon her with a quite unmistakable expression in their grave depths ; and it was still more disconcerting to find herself blushing hotly and uncomfortably under his gaze , just as if -- just as if -- well , it was very embarrassing .
Anne wished herself back at Patty 's Place , where there was always somebody else about to take the edge off a delicate situation .
At Green Gables Marilla went promptly to Mrs. Lynde 's domain when Gilbert came and insisted on taking the twins with her .
The significance of this was unmistakable and Anne was in a helpless fury over it .
Davy , however , was perfectly happy .
He reveled in getting out in the morning and shoveling out the paths to the well and henhouse .
He gloried in the Christmas-tide delicacies which Marilla and Mrs. Lynde vied with each other in preparing for Anne , and he was reading an enthralling tale , in a school library book , of a wonderful hero who seemed blessed with a miraculous faculty for getting into scrapes from which he was usually delivered by an earthquake or a volcanic explosion , which blew him high and dry out of his troubles , landed him in a fortune , and closed the story with proper ECLAT .
`` I tell you it 's a bully story , Anne , '' he said ecstatically .
`` I 'd ever so much rather read it than the Bible . ''
`` Would you ? ''
smiled Anne .
Davy peered curiously at her .
`` You do n't seem a bit shocked , Anne .
Mrs. Lynde was awful shocked when I said it to her . ''
`` No , I 'm not shocked , Davy .
I think it 's quite natural that a nine-year-old boy would sooner read an adventure story than the Bible .
But when you are older I hope and think that you will realize what a wonderful book the Bible is . ''
`` Oh , I think some parts of it are fine , '' conceded Davy .
`` That story about Joseph now -- it 's bully .
But if I 'd been Joseph I would n't have forgive the brothers .
No , siree , Anne .
I 'd have cut all their heads off .
Mrs. Lynde was awful mad when I said that and shut the Bible up and said she 'd never read me any more of it if I talked like that .
So I do n't talk now when she reads it Sunday afternoons ; I just think things and say them to Milty Boulter next day in school .
I told Milty the story about Elisha and the bears and it scared him so he 's never made fun of Mr. Harrison 's bald head once .
Are there any bears on P.E. Island , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
`` Not nowadays , '' said Anne , absently , as the wind blew a scud of snow against the window .
`` Oh , dear , will it ever stop storming . ''
`` God knows , '' said Davy airily , preparing to resume his reading .
Anne WAS shocked this time .
`` Davy ! ''
she exclaimed reproachfully .
`` Mrs. Lynde says that , '' protested Davy .
`` One night last week Marilla said ` Will Ludovic Speed and Theodora Dix EVER get married ? ''
and Mrs. Lynde said , '' ` God knows ' -- just like that . ''
`` Well , it was n't right for her to say it , '' said Anne , promptly deciding upon which horn of this dilemma to empale herself .
`` It is n't right for anybody to take that name in vain or speak it lightly , Davy .
Do n't ever do it again . ''
`` Not if I say it slow and solemn , like the minister ? ''
queried Davy gravely .
`` No , not even then . ''
`` Well , I wo n't .
Ludovic Speed and Theodora Dix live in Middle Grafton and Mrs. Rachel says he has been courting her for a hundred years .
Wo n't they soon be too old to get married , Anne ?
I hope Gilbert wo n't court YOU that long .
When are you going to be married , Anne ?
Mrs. Lynde says it 's a sure thing . ''
`` Mrs. Lynde is a -- '' began Anne hotly ; then stopped .
`` Awful old gossip , '' completed Davy calmly .
`` That 's what every one calls her .
But is it a sure thing , Anne ?
I want to know . ''
`` You 're a very silly little boy , Davy , '' said Anne , stalking haughtily out of the room .
The kitchen was deserted and she sat down by the window in the fast falling wintry twilight .
The sun had set and the wind had died down .
A pale chilly moon looked out behind a bank of purple clouds in the west .
The sky faded out , but the strip of yellow along the western horizon grew brighter and fiercer , as if all the stray gleams of light were concentrating in one spot ; the distant hills , rimmed with priest-like firs , stood out in dark distinctness against it .
Anne looked across the still , white fields , cold and lifeless in the harsh light of that grim sunset , and sighed .
She was very lonely ; and she was sad at heart ; for she was wondering if she would be able to return to Redmond next year .
It did not seem likely .
The only scholarship possible in the Sophomore year was a very small affair .
She would not take Marilla 's money ; and there seemed little prospect of being able to earn enough in the summer vacation .
`` I suppose I 'll just have to drop out next year , '' she thought drearily , `` and teach a district school again until I earn enough to finish my course .
And by that time all my old class will have graduated and Patty 's Place will be out of the question .
But there !
I 'm not going to be a coward .
I 'm thankful I can earn my way through if necessary . ''
`` Here 's Mr. Harrison wading up the lane , '' announced Davy , running out .
`` I hope he 's brought the mail .
It 's three days since we got it .
I want to see what them pesky Grits are doing .
I 'm a Conservative , Anne .
And I tell you , you have to keep your eye on them Grits . ''
Mr. Harrison had brought the mail , and merry letters from Stella and Priscilla and Phil soon dissipated Anne 's blues .
Aunt Jamesina , too , had written , saying that she was keeping the hearth-fire alight , and that the cats were all well , and the house plants doing fine .
`` The weather has been real cold , '' she wrote , `` so I let the cats sleep in the house -- Rusty and Joseph on the sofa in the living-room , and the Sarah-cat on the foot of my bed .
It 's real company to hear her purring when I wake up in the night and think of my poor daughter in the foreign field .
If it was anywhere but in India I would n't worry , but they say the snakes out there are terrible .
It takes all the Sarah-cats 's purring to drive away the thought of those snakes .
I have enough faith for everything but the snakes .
I ca n't think why Providence ever made them .
Sometimes I do n't think He did .
I 'm inclined to believe the Old Harry had a hand in making THEM . ''
Anne had left a thin , typewritten communication till the last , thinking it unimportant .
When she had read it she sat very still , with tears in her eyes .
`` What is the matter , Anne ? ''
asked Marilla .
`` Miss Josephine Barry is dead , '' said Anne , in a low tone .
`` So she has gone at last , '' said Marilla .
`` Well , she has been sick for over a year , and the Barrys have been expecting to hear of her death any time .
It is well she is at rest for she has suffered dreadfully , Anne .
She was always kind to you . ''
`` She has been kind to the last , Marilla .
This letter is from her lawyer .
She has left me a thousand dollars in her will . ''
`` Gracious , ai n't that an awful lot of money , '' exclaimed Davy .
`` She 's the woman you and Diana lit on when you jumped into the spare room bed , ai n't she ?
Diana told me that story .
Is that why she left you so much ? ''
`` Hush , Davy , '' said Anne gently .
She slipped away to the porch gable with a full heart , leaving Marilla and Mrs. Lynde to talk over the news to their hearts ' content .
