Shall I tell you what I have learned , Joyce ?
The gist of the lesson is that I left happiness behind me in the old valley , when I went away from it , happiness and peace and the joy of living .
I did not miss these things for a long while ; I did not even know I had lost them .
But I have discovered my loss . ''
`` Yet you have been a very successful man , '' she said wonderingly .
`` As the world calls success , '' he answered bitterly .
`` I have place and wealth and power .
But that is not success , Joyce .
I am tired of these things ; they are the toys of grown-up children ; they do not satisfy the man 's soul .
I have come back to the old valley seeking for what might satisfy , but I have little hope of finding it , unless -- unless -- '' He was silent , remembering that he had forfeited all right to her help in the quest .
Yet he realized clearly that only she could help him , only she could guide him back to the path he had missed .
It seemed to him that she held in her keeping all the good of his life , all the beauty of his past , all the possibilities of his future .
Hers was the master word , but how should he dare ask her to utter it ?
They walked among the firs until the stars came out , and they talked of many things .
She had kept her freshness of soul and her ideals untarnished .
In the peace of the old valley she had lived a life , narrow outwardly , wondrously deep and wide in thought and aspiration .
Her native hills bounded the vision of her eyes , but the outlook of the soul was far and unhindered .
In the quiet places and the green ways she had found what he had failed to find -- the secret of happiness and content .
He knew that if this woman had walked hand in hand with him through the years , life , even in the glare and tumult of that world beyond the hills , would never have lost its meaning for him .
Oh , fool and blind that he had been !
While he had sought and toiled afar , the best that God had meant for him had been here in the home of youth .
When darkness came down through the firs he told her all this , haltingly , blunderingly , yearningly .
`` Joyce , is it too late ?
Can you forgive my mistake , my long blindness ?
Can you care for me again -- a little ? ''
She turned her face upward to the sky between the swaying fir tops and he saw the reflection of a star in her eyes .
`` I have never ceased to care , '' she said in a low tone .
`` I never really wanted to cease .
It would have left life too empty .
If my love means so much to you it is yours , Cuthbert -- it always has been yours . ''
He drew her close into his arms , and as he felt her heart beating against his he understood that he had found the way back to simple happiness and true wisdom , the wisdom of loving and the happiness of being loved .
Jane Lavinia Jane Lavinia put her precious portfolio down on the table in her room , carefully , as if its contents were fine gold , and proceeded to unpin and take off her second-best hat .
When she had gone over to the Whittaker place that afternoon , she had wanted to wear her best hat , but Aunt Rebecca had vetoed that uncompromisingly .
`` Next thing you 'll be wanting to wear your best muslin to go for the cows , '' said Aunt Rebecca sarcastically .
`` You go right back upstairs and take off that chiffon hat .
If I was fool enough to be coaxed into buying it for you , I ai n't going to have you spoil it by traipsing hither and yon with it in the dust and sun .
Your last summer 's sailor is plenty good enough to go to the Whittakers ' in , Jane Lavinia . ''
`` But Mr. Stephens and his wife are from New York , '' pleaded Jane Lavinia , `` and she 's so stylish . ''
`` Well , it 's likely they 're used to seeing chiffon hats , '' Aunt Rebecca responded , more sarcastically than ever .
`` It is n't probable that yours would make much of a sensation .
Mr. Stephens did n't send for you to show him your chiffon hat , did he ?
If he did , I do n't see what you 're lugging that big portfolio along with you for .
Go and put on your sailor hat , Jane Lavinia . ''
Jane Lavinia obeyed .
She always obeyed Aunt Rebecca .
But she took off the chiffon hat and pinned on the sailor with bitterness of heart .
She had always hated that sailor .
Anything ugly hurt Jane Lavinia with an intensity that Aunt Rebecca could never understand ; and the sailor hat was ugly , with its stiff little black bows and impossible blue roses .
It jarred on Jane Lavinia 's artistic instincts .
Besides , it was very unbecoming .
I look horrid in it , Jane Lavinia had thought sorrowfully ; and then she had gone out and down the velvet-green springtime valley and over the sunny birch hill beyond with a lagging step and a rebellious heart .
But Jane Lavinia came home walking as if on the clear air of the crystal afternoon , her small , delicate face aglow and every fibre of her body and spirit thrilling with excitement and delight .
She forgot to fling the sailor hat into its box with her usual energy of dislike .
Just then Jane Lavinia had a soul above hats .
She looked at herself in the glass and nodded with friendliness .
`` You 'll do something yet , '' she said .
`` Mr. Stephens said you would .
Oh , I like you , Jane Lavinia , you dear thing !
Sometimes I have n't liked you because you 're nothing to look at , and I did n't suppose you could really do anything worthwhile .
But I do like you now after what Mr. Stephens said about your drawings . ''
Jane Lavinia smiled radiantly into the little cracked glass .
Just then she was pretty , with the glow on her cheeks and the sparkle in her eyes .
Her uncertainly tinted hair and an all-too-certain little tilt of her nose no longer troubled her .
Such things did not matter ; nobody would mind them in a successful artist .
And Mr. Stephens had said that she had talent enough to win success .
Jane Lavinia sat down by her window , which looked west into a grove of firs .
They grew thickly , close up to the house , and she could touch their wide , fan-like branches with her hand .
Jane Lavinia loved those fir trees , with their whispers and sighs and beckonings , and she also loved her little shadowy , low-ceilinged room , despite its plainness , because it was gorgeous for her with visions and peopled with rainbow fancies .
The stained walls were covered with Jane Lavinia 's pictures -- most of them pen-and-ink sketches , with a few flights into water colour .
Aunt Rebecca sniffed at them and deplored the driving of tacks into the plaster .
Aunt Rebecca thought Jane Lavinia 's artistic labours a flat waste of time , which would have been much better put into rugs and crochet tidies and afghans .
All the other girls in Chestercote made rugs and tidies and afghans .
Why must Jane Lavinia keep messing with ink and crayons and water colours ?
Jane Lavinia only knew that she must -- she could not help it .
There was something in her that demanded expression thus .
When Mr. Stephens , who was a well-known artist and magazine illustrator , came to Chestercote because his wife 's father , Nathan Whittaker , was ill , Jane Lavinia 's heart had bounded with a shy hope .
She indulged in some harmless manoeuvring which , with the aid of good-natured Mrs. Whittaker , was crowned with success .
One day , when Mr. Whittaker was getting better , Mr. Stephens had asked her to show him some of her work .
Jane Lavinia , wearing the despised sailor hat , had gone over to the Whittaker place with some of her best sketches .
She came home again feeling as if all the world and herself were transfigured .
She looked out from the window of her little room with great dreamy brown eyes , seeing through the fir boughs the golden western sky beyond , serving as a canvas whereon her fancy painted glittering visions of her future .
She would go to New York -- and study -- and work , oh , so hard -- and go abroad -- and work harder -- and win success -- and be great and admired and famous -- if only Aunt Rebecca -- ah !
if only Aunt Rebecca !
Jane Lavinia sighed .
There was spring in the world and spring in Jane Lavinia 's heart ; but a chill came with the thought of Aunt Rebecca , who considered tidies and afghans nicer than her pictures .
`` But I 'm going , anyway , '' said Jane Lavinia decidedly .
`` If Aunt Rebecca wo n't give me the money , I 'll find some other way .
I 'm not afraid of any amount of work .
After what Mr. Stephens said , I believe I could work twenty hours out of the twenty-four .
I 'd be content to live on a crust and sleep in a garret -- yes , and wear sailor hats with stiff bows and blue roses the year round . ''
Jane Lavinia sighed in luxurious renunciation .
Oh , it was good to be alive -- to be a girl of seventeen , with wonderful ambitions and all the world before her !
The years of the future sparkled and gleamed alluringly .
Jane Lavinia , with her head on the window sill , looked out into the sunset splendour and dreamed .
Athwart her dreams , rending in twain their frail , rose-tinted fabric , came Aunt Rebecca 's voice from the kitchen below , `` Jane Lavinia !
Jane Lavinia !
Ai n't you going for the cows tonight ? ''
Jane Lavinia started up guiltily ; she had forgotten all about the cows .
She slipped off her muslin dress and hurried into her print ; but with all her haste it took time , and Aunt Rebecca was grimmer than ever when Jane Lavinia ran downstairs .
`` It 'll be dark before we get the cows milked .
I s ` pose you 've been day-dreaming again up there .
I do wish , Jane Lavinia , that you had more sense . ''
Jane Lavinia made no response .
At any other time she would have gone out with a lump in her throat ; but now , after what Mr. Stephens had said , Aunt Rebecca 's words had no power to hurt her .
`` After milking I 'll ask her about it , '' she said to herself , as she went blithely down the sloping yard , across the little mossy bridge over the brook , and up the lane on the hill beyond , where the ferns grew thickly and the grass was beset with tiny blue-eyes like purple stars .
The air was moist and sweet .
At the top of the lane a wild plum tree hung out its branches of feathery bloom against the crimson sky .
Jane Lavinia lingered , in spite of Aunt Rebecca 's hurry , to look at it .
It satisfied her artistic instinct and made her glad to be alive in the world where wild plums blossomed against springtime skies .
The pleasure of it went with her through the pasture and back to the milking yard ; and stayed with her while she helped Aunt Rebecca milk the cows .
When the milk was strained into the creamers down at the spring , and the pails washed and set in a shining row on their bench , Jane Lavinia tried to summon up her courage to speak to Aunt Rebecca .
They were out on the back verandah ; the spring twilight was purpling down over the woods and fields ; down in the swamp the frogs were singing a silvery , haunting chorus ; a little baby moon was floating in the clear sky above the white-blossoming orchard on the slope .
Jane Lavinia tried to speak and could n't .
For a wonder , Aunt Rebecca spared her the trouble .
`` Well , what did Mr. Stephens think of your pictures ? ''
she asked shortly .
`` Oh ! ''
Everything that Jane Lavinia wanted to say came rushing at once and together to her tongue 's end .
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , he was delighted with them !
And he said I had remarkable talent , and he wants me to go to New York and study in an art school there .
He says Mrs. Stephens finds it hard to get good help , and if I 'd be willing to work for her in the mornings , I could live with them and have my afternoons off .
So it wo n't cost much .
And he said he would help me -- and , oh , Aunt Rebecca , ca n't I go ? ''
Jane Lavinia 's breath gave out with a gasp of suspense .
Aunt Rebecca was silent for so long a space that Jane Lavinia had time to pass through the phases of hope and fear and despair and resignation before she said , more grimly than ever , `` If your mind is set on going , go you will , I suppose .
It does n't seem to me that I have anything to say in the matter , Jane Lavinia . ''
`` But , oh , Aunt Rebecca , '' said Jane Lavinia tremulously .
`` I ca n't go unless you 'll help me .
I 'll have to pay for my lessons at the art school , you know . ''
`` So that 's it , is it ?
And do you expect me to give you the money to pay for them , Jane Lavinia ? ''
`` Not give -- exactly , '' stammered Jane Lavinia .
`` I 'll pay it back some time , Aunt Rebecca .
Oh , indeed , I will -- when I 'm able to earn money by my pictures ! ''
`` The security is hardly satisfactory , '' said Aunt Rebecca immovably .
`` You know well enough I have n't much money , Jane Lavinia .
I thought when I was coaxed into giving you two quarters ' lessons with Miss Claxton that it was as much as you could expect me to do for you .
I did n't suppose the next thing would be that you 'd be for betaking yourself to New York and expecting me to pay your bills there . ''
Aunt Rebecca turned and went into the house .
Jane Lavinia , feeling sore and bruised in spirit ; fled to her own room and cried herself to sleep .
Her eyes were swollen the next morning , but she was not sulky .
Jane Lavinia never sulked .
She did her morning 's work faithfully , although there was no spring in her step .
That afternoon , when she was out in the orchard trying to patch up her tattered dreams , Aunt Rebecca came down the blossomy avenue , a tall , gaunt figure , with an uncompromising face .
`` You 'd better go down to the store and get ten yards of white cotton , Jane Lavinia , '' she said .
`` If you 're going to New York , you 'll have to get a supply of underclothing made . ''
Jane Lavinia opened her eyes .
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , am I going ? ''
`` You can go if you want to .
I 'll give you all the money I can spare .
It ai n't much , but perhaps it 'll be enough for a start . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Rebecca , thank you ! ''
exclaimed Jane Lavinia , crimson with conflicting feelings .
`` But perhaps I ought n't to take it -- perhaps I ought n't to leave you alone -- '' If Aunt Rebecca had shown any regret at the thought of Jane Lavinia 's departure , Jane Lavinia would have foregone New York on the spot .
But Aunt Rebecca only said coldly , `` I guess you need n't worry over that .
I can get along well enough . ''
And with that it was settled .
Jane Lavinia lived in a whirl of delight for the next week .
She felt few regrets at leaving Chestercote .
Aunt Rebecca would not miss her ; Jane Lavinia thought that Aunt Rebecca regarded her as a nuisance -- a foolish girl who wasted her time making pictures instead of doing something useful .
Jane Lavinia had never thought that Aunt Rebecca had any affection for her .
She had been a very little girl when her parents had died , and Aunt Rebecca had taken her to bring up .
Accordingly she had been `` brought up , '' and she was grateful to Aunt Rebecca , but there was no closer bond between them .
Jane Lavinia would have given love for love unstintedly , but she never supposed that Aunt Rebecca loved her .
On the morning of departure Jane Lavinia was up and ready early .
Her trunk had been taken over to Mr. Whittaker 's the night before , and she was to walk over in the morning and go with Mr. and Mrs. Stephens to the station .
She put on her chiffon hat to travel in , and Aunt Rebecca did not say a word of protest .
Jane Lavinia cried when she said good-by , but Aunt Rebecca did not cry .
She shook hands and said stiffly , `` Write when you get to New York .
You need n't let Mrs. Stephens work you to death either . ''
Jane Lavinia went slowly over the bridge and up the lane .
If only Aunt Rebecca had been a little sorry !
But the morning was perfect and the air clear as crystal , and she was going to New York , and fame and fortune were to be hers for the working .
Jane Lavinia 's spirits rose and bubbled over in a little trill of song .
Then she stopped in dismay .
She had forgotten her watch -- her mother 's little gold watch ; she had left it on her dressing table .
Jane Lavinia hurried down the lane and back to the house .
In the open kitchen doorway she paused , standing on a mosaic of gold and shadow where the sunshine fell through the morning-glory vines .
Nobody was in the kitchen , but Aunt Rebecca was in the little bedroom that opened off it , crying bitterly and talking aloud between her sobs , `` Oh , she 's gone and left me all alone -- my girl has gone !
Oh , what shall I do ?
And she did n't care -- she was glad to go -- glad to get away .
Well , it ai n't any wonder .
I 've always been too cranky with her .
But I loved her so much all the time , and I was so proud of her !
I liked her picture-making real well , even if I did complain of her wasting her time .
Oh , I do n't know how I 'm ever going to keep on living now she 's gone ! ''
Jane Lavinia listened with a face from which all the sparkle and excitement had gone .
Yet amid all the wreck and ruin of her tumbling castles in air , a glad little thrill made itself felt .
Aunt Rebecca was sorry -- Aunt Rebecca did love her after all !
Jane Lavinia turned and walked noiselessly away .
As she went swiftly up the wild plum lane , some tears brimmed up in her eyes , but there was a smile on her lips and a song in her heart .
After all , it was nicer to be loved than to be rich and admired and famous .
When she reached Mr. Whittaker 's , everybody was out in the yard ready to start .
`` Hurry up , Jane Lavinia , '' said Mr. Whittaker .
`` Blest if we had n't begun to think you were n't coming at all .
Lively now . ''
`` I am not going , '' said Jane Lavinia calmly .
`` Not going ? ''
they all exclaimed .
`` No .
I 'm very sorry , and very grateful to you , Mr. Stephens , but I ca n't leave Aunt Rebecca .
She 'd miss me too much . ''
`` Well , you little goose ! ''
said Mrs. Whittaker .
Mrs. Stephens said nothing , but frowned coldly .
Perhaps her thoughts were less of the loss to the world of art than of the difficulty of hunting up another housemaid .
Mr. Stephens looked honestly regretful .
`` I 'm sorry , very sorry , Miss Slade , '' he said .
`` You have exceptional talent , and I think you ought to cultivate it . ''
`` I am going to cultivate Aunt Rebecca , '' said Jane Lavinia .
Nobody knew just what she meant , but they all understood the firmness of her tone .
Her trunk was taken down out of the express wagon , and Mr. and Mrs. Stephens drove away .
Then Jane Lavinia went home .
She found Aunt Rebecca washing the breakfast dishes , with the big tears rolling down her face .
`` Goodness me ! ''
she cried , when Jane Lavinia walked in .
`` What 's the matter ?
You ai n't gone and been too late ! ''
`` No , I 've just changed my mind , Aunt Rebecca .
They 've gone without me .
I am not going to New York -- I do n't want to go .
I 'd rather stay at home with you . ''
For a moment Aunt Rebecca stared at her .
Then she stepped forward and flung her arms about the girl .
`` Oh , Jane Lavinia , '' she said with a sob , `` I 'm so glad !
I could n't see how I was going to get along without you , but I thought you did n't care .
You can wear that chiffon hat everywhere you want to , and I 'll get you a pink organdy dress for Sundays . ''
-LSB- Illustration : SHE EYED CHESTER SOURLY . -RSB-
Mackereling Out in the Gulf The mackerel boats were all at anchor on the fishing grounds ; the sea was glassy calm -- a pallid blue , save for a chance streak of deeper azure where some stray sea breeze ruffled it .
It was about the middle of the afternoon , and intensely warm and breathless .
The headlands and coves were blurred by a purple heat haze .
The long sweep of the sandshore was so glaringly brilliant that the pained eye sought relief among the rough rocks , where shadows were cast by the big red sandstone boulders .
The little cluster of fishing houses nearby were bleached to a silvery grey by long exposure to wind and rain .
Far off were several `` Yankee '' fishing schooners , their sails dimly visible against the white horizon .
Two boats were hauled upon the `` skids '' that ran from the rocks out into the water .
A couple of dories floated below them .
Now and then a white gull , flashing silver where its plumage caught the sun , soared landward .
A young man was standing by the skids , watching the fishing boats through a spyglass .
He was tall , with a straight , muscular figure clad in a rough fishing suit .
His face was deeply browned by the gulf breezes and was attractive rather than handsome , while his eyes , as blue and clear as the gulf waters , were peculiarly honest and frank .
Two wiry , dark-faced French-Canadian boys were perched on one of the boats , watching the fishing fleet with lazy interest in their inky-black eyes , and wondering if the `` Yanks '' had seined many mackerel that day .
Presently three people came down the steep path from the fish-houses .
One of them , a girl , ran lightly forward and touched Benjamin Selby 's arm .
He lowered his glass with a start and looked around .
A flash of undisguised delight transfigured his face .
`` Why , Mary Stella !
I did n't expect you 'd be down this hot day .
You have n't been much at the shore lately , '' he added reproachfully .
`` I really have n't had time , Benjamin , '' she answered carelessly , as she took the glass from his hand and tried to focus it on the fishing fleet .
Benjamin steadied it for her ; the flush of pleasure was still glowing on his bronzed cheek , `` Are the mackerel biting now ? ''
`` Not just now .
Who is that stranger with your father , Mary Stella ? ''
`` That is a cousin of ours -- a Mr. Braithwaite .
Are you very busy , Benjamin ? ''
`` Not busy at all -- idle as you see me .
Why ? ''
`` Will you take me out for a little row in the dory ?
I have n't been out for so long . ''
`` Of course .
Come -- here 's the dory -- your namesake , you know .
I had her fresh painted last week .
She 's as clean as an eggshell . ''
The girl stepped daintily off the rocks into the little cream-coloured skiff , and Benjamin untied the rope and pushed off .
`` Where would you like to go , Mary Stella ? ''
`` Oh , just upshore a little way -- not far .
And do n't go out into very deep water , please , it makes me feel frightened and dizzy . ''
Benjamin smiled and promised .
He was rowing along with the easy grace of one used to the oar .
He had been born and brought up in sound of the gulf 's waves ; its never-ceasing murmur had been his first lullaby .
He knew it and loved it in every mood , in every varying tint and smile , in every change of wind and tide .
There was no better skipper alongshore than Benjamin Selby .
Mary Stella waved her hand gaily to the two men on the rocks .
Benjamin looked back darkly .
`` Who is that young fellow ? ''
he asked again .
`` Where does he belong ? ''
`` He is the son of Father 's sister -- his favourite sister , although he has never seen her since she married an American years ago and went to live in the States .
She made Frank come down here this summer and hunt us up .
He is splendid , I think .
He is a New York lawyer and very clever . ''
Benjamin made no response .
He pulled in his oars and let the dory float amid the ripples .
The bottom of white sand , patterned over with coloured pebbles , was clear and distinct through the dark-green water .
Mary Stella leaned over to watch the distorted reflection of her face by the dory 's side .
`` Have you had pretty good luck this week , Benjamin ?
Father could n't go out much -- he has been so busy with his hay , and Leon is such a poor fisherman . ''
`` We 've had some of the best hauls of the summer this week .
Some of the Rustler boats caught six hundred to a line yesterday .
We had four hundred to the line in our boat . ''
Mary Stella began absently to dabble her slender brown hand in the water .
A silence fell between them , with which Benjamin was well content , since it gave him a chance to feast his eyes on the beautiful face before him .
He could not recall the time when he had not loved Mary Stella .
It seemed to him that she had always been a part of his inmost life .
He loved her with the whole strength and fidelity of a naturally intense nature .
He hoped that she loved him , and he had no rival that he feared .
In secret he exalted and deified her as something almost too holy for him to aspire to .
She was his ideal of all that was beautiful and good ; he was jealously careful over all his words and thoughts and actions that not one might make him more unworthy of her .
In all the hardship and toil of his life his love was as his guardian angel , turning his feet from every dim and crooked byway ; he trod in no path where he would not have the girl he loved to follow .
The roughest labour was glorified if it lifted him a step nearer the altar of his worship .
But today he felt faintly disturbed .
In some strange , indefinable way it seemed to him that Mary Stella was different from her usual self .
The impression was vague and evanescent -- gone before he could decide wherein the difference lay .
He told himself that he was foolish , yet the vexing , transient feeling continued to come and go .
Presently Mary Stella said it was time to go back .
Benjamin was in no hurry , but he never disputed her lightest inclination .
He turned the dory about and rowed shoreward .
Back on the rocks , Mosey Louis and Xavier , the French Canadians , were looking through the spyglass by turns and making characteristic comments on the fleet .
Mr. Murray and Braithwaite were standing by the skids , watching the dory .
`` Who is that young fellow ? ''
asked the latter .
`` What a splendid physique he has !
It 's a pleasure to watch him rowing . ''
`` That , '' said the older man , with a certain proprietary pride in his tone , `` is Benjamin Selby -- the best mackerel fisherman on the island .
He 's been high line all along the gulf shore for years .
I do n't know a finer man every way you take him .
Maybe you 'll think I 'm partial , '' he continued with a smile .
`` You see , he and Mary Stella think a good deal of each other .
I expect to have Benjamin for a son-in-law some day if all goes well . ''
Braithwaite 's expression changed slightly .
He walked over to the dory and helped Mary Stella out of it while Benjamin made the painter fast .
When the latter turned , Mary Stella was walking across the rocks with her cousin .
Benjamin 's blue eyes darkened , and he strode moodily over to the boats .
`` You were n't out this morning , Mr. Murray ? ''
`` No , that hay had to be took in .
Reckon I missed it -- pretty good catch , they tell me .
Are they getting any now ? ''
`` No .
It 's not likely the fish will begin to bite again for another hour . ''
`` I see someone standing up in that off boat , do n't I ? ''
said Mr. Murray , reaching for the spyglass .
`` No , that 's only Rob Leslie 's crew trying to fool us .
They 've tried it before this afternoon .
They think it would be a joke to coax us out there to broil like themselves . ''
`` Frank , '' shouted Mr. Murray , `` come here , I want you . ''
Aside to Benjamin he said , `` He 's my nephew -- a fine young chap .
You 'll like him , I know . ''
Braithwaite came over , and Mr. Murray put one hand on his shoulder and one on Benjamin 's .
`` Boys , I want you to know each other .
Benjamin , this is Frank Braithwaite .
Frank , this is Benjamin Selby , the high line of the gulf shore , as I told you . ''
While Mr. Murray was speaking , the two men looked steadily at each other .
The few seconds seemed very long ; when they had passed , Benjamin knew that the other man was his rival .
Braithwaite was the first to speak .
He put out his hand with easy cordiality .
`` I am glad to meet you , Mr. Selby , '' he said heartily , `` although I am afraid I should feel very green in the presence of such a veteran fisherman as yourself . ''
His frank courtesy compelled some return .
Benjamin took the proffered hand with restraint .
`` I 'm sorry there 's no mackerel going this afternoon , '' continued the American .
`` I wanted to have a chance at them .
I never saw mackerel caught before .
I suppose I 'll be very awkward at first . ''
`` It 's not a very hard thing to do , '' said Benjamin stiffly , speaking for the first time since their meeting .
`` Most anybody could catch mackerel for a while -- it 's the sticking to it that counts . ''
He turned abruptly and went back to his boat .
He could not force himself to talk civilly to the stranger , with that newly born demon of distrust gnawing at his heart .
`` I think I 'll go out , '' he said .
`` It 's freshening up .
I should n't wonder if the mackerel schooled soon . ''
`` I 'll go , too , then , '' said Mr. Murray .
`` Hi , up there !
Leon and Pete !
Hi , I say ! ''
Two more French Canadians came running down from the Murray fish-house , where they had been enjoying a siesta .
They fished in the Murray boat .
A good deal of friendly rivalry as to catch went on between the two boats , while Leon and Mosey Louis were bitter enemies on their own personal account .
`` Think you 'll try it , Frank ? ''
shouted Mr. Murray .
`` Well , not this afternoon , '' was the answer .
`` It 's rather hot .
I 'll see what it is like tomorrow . ''
The boats were quickly launched and glided out from the shadow of the cliffs .
Benjamin stood at his mast .
Mary Stella came down to the water 's edge and waved her hand gaily .
`` Good luck to you and the best catch of the season , '' she called out .
Benjamin waved his hat in response .
His jealousy was forgotten for the moment and he felt that he had been churlish to Braithwaite .
`` You 'll wish you 'd come , '' he shouted to him .
`` It 's going to be a great evening for fish . ''
When the boats reached the fishing grounds , they came to and anchored , their masts coming out in slender silhouette against the sky .
A row of dark figures was standing up in every boat ; the gulfs shining expanse was darkened by odd black streaks -- the mackerel had begun to school .
Frank Braithwaite went out fishing the next day and caught 30 mackerel .
He was boyishly proud of it .
He visited the shore daily after that and soon became very popular .
He developed into quite an expert fisherman ; nor , when the boats came in , did he shirk work , but manfully rolled up his trousers and helped carry water and `` gib '' mackerel as if he enjoyed it .
He never put on any `` airs , '' and he stoutly took Leon 's part against the aggressive Mosey Louis .
Even the French Canadians , those merciless critics , admitted that the `` Yankee '' was a good fellow .
Benjamin Selby alone held stubbornly aloof .
One evening the loaded boats came in at sunset .
Benjamin sprang from his as it bumped against the skids , and ran up the path .
At the corner of his fish-house he stopped and stood quite still , looking at Braithwaite and Mary Stella , who were standing by the rough picket fence of the pasture land .
Braithwaite 's back was to Benjamin ; he held the girl 's hand in his and was talking earnestly .
Mary Stella was looking up at him , her delicate face thrown back a little .
There was a look in her eyes that Benjamin had never seen there before -- but he knew what it meant .
His face grew pale and rigid ; he clenched his hands and a whirlpool of agony and bitterness surged up in his heart .
All the great blossoms of the hope that had shed beauty and fragrance over his rough life seemed suddenly to shrivel up into black unsightliness .
He turned and went swiftly and noiselessly down the road to his boat .
The murmur of the sea sounded very far off .
Mosey Louis was busy counting out the mackerel , Xavier was dipping up buckets of water and pouring it over the silvery fish .
The sun was setting in a bank of purple cloud , and the long black headland to the west cut the golden seas like a wedge of ebony .
It was all real and yet unreal .
Benjamin went to work mechanically .
Presently Mary Stella came down to her father 's boat .
Braithwaite followed slowly , pausing a moment to exchange some banter with saucy Mosey Louis .
Benjamin bent lower over his table ; now and then he caught the dear tones of Mary Stella 's voice or her laughter at some sally of Pete or Leon .
He knew when she went up the road with Braithwaite ; he caught the last glimpse of her light dress as she passed out of sight on the cliffs above , but he worked steadily on and gave no sign .
It was late when they finished .
The tired French Canadians went quickly off to their beds in the fish-house loft .
Benjamin stood by the skids until all was quiet , then he walked down the cove to a rocky point that jutted out into the water .
He leaned against a huge boulder and laid his head on his arm , looking up into the dark sky .
The stars shone calmly down on his misery ; the throbbing sea stretched out before him ; its low , murmuring moan seemed to be the inarticulate voice of his pain .
The air was close and oppressive ; fitful flashes of heat lightning shimmered here and there over the heavy banks of cloud on the horizon ; little wavelets sobbed at the base of the rocks .
When Benjamin lifted his head he saw Frank Braithwaite standing between him and the luminous water .
He took a step forward , and they came face to face as Braithwaite turned with a start .
Benjamin clenched his hands and fought down a hideous temptation to thrust his rival off the rock .
`` I saw you today , '' he said in a low , intense tone .
`` What do you think of yourself , coming down here to steal the girl I loved from me ?
Were n't there enough girls where you came from to choose among ?
I hate you .
I 'd kill you -- '' `` Selby , stop !
You do n't know what you are saying .
If I have wronged you , I swear I did it unintentionally .
I loved Stella from the first -- who could help it ?
But I thought she was virtually bound to you , and I did not try to win her away .
You do n't know what it cost me to remain passive .
I know that you have always distrusted me , but hitherto you have had no reason to .
But today I found that she was free -- that she did not care for you !
And I found -- or thought I found -- that there was a chance for me .
I took it .
I forgot everything else then . ''
`` So she loves you ? ''
said Benjamin dully .
`` Yes , '' said Braithwaite softly .
Benjamin turned on him with sudden passion .
`` I hate you -- and I am the most miserable wretch alive , but if she is happy , it is no matter about me .
You 've won easily what I 've slaved and toiled all my life for .
You wo n't value it as I 'd have done -- but if you make her happy , nothing else matters .
I 've only one favour to ask of you .
Do n't let her come to the shore after this .
I ca n't stand it . ''
August throbbed and burned itself out .
Affairs along shore continued as usual .
Benjamin shut his sorrow up in himself and gave no outward sign of suffering .
As if to mock him , the season was one of phenomenal prosperity ; it was a `` mackerel year '' to be dated from .
He worked hard and unceasingly , sparing himself in no way .
Braithwaite seldom came to the shore now .
Mary Stella never .
Mr. Murray had tried to speak of the matter , but Benjamin would not let him .
`` It 's best that nothing be said , '' he told him with simple dignity .
He was so calm that Mr. Murray thought he did not care greatly , and was glad of it .
The older man regretted the turn of affairs .
Braithwaite would take his daughter far away from him , as his sister had been taken , and he loved Benjamin as his own son .
One afternoon Benjamin stood by his boat and looked anxiously at sea and sky .
The French Canadians were eager to go out , for the other boats were catching .
`` I do n't know about it , '' said Benjamin doubtfully .
`` I do n't half like the look of things .
I believe we 're in for a squall before long .
It was just such a day three years ago when that terrible squall came up that Joe Otway got drowned in . ''
The sky was dun and smoky , the glassy water was copper-hued , the air was heavy and breathless .
The sea purred upon the shore , lapping it caressingly like some huge feline creature biding its time to seize and crunch its victim .
`` I reckon I 'll try it , '' said Benjamin after a final scrutiny .
`` If a squall does come up , we 'll have to run for the shore mighty quick , that 's all . ''
They launched the boat speedily ; as there was no wind , they had to row .
As they pulled out , Braithwaite and Leon came down the road and began to launch the Murray boat .
`` If dem two gits caught in a squall dey 'll hav a tam , '' grinned Mosey Louis .
`` Dat Leon , he do n't know de fust ting ` bout a boat , no more dan a cat ! ''
Benjamin came to anchor close in , but Braithwaite and Leon kept on until they were further out than any other boat .
`` Reckon dey 's after cod , '' suggested Xavier .
The mackerel bit well , but Benjamin kept a close watch on the sky .
Suddenly he saw a dark streak advancing over the water from the northwest .
He wheeled around .
`` Boys , the squall 's coming !
Up with the anchor -- quick ! ''
`` Dere 's plenty tam , '' grumbled Mosey Louis , who hated to leave the fish .
`` None of de oder boats is goin ' in yit . ''
The squall struck the boat as he spoke .
She lurched and staggered .
The water was tossing choppily .
There was a sudden commotion all through the fleet and sails went rapidly up .
Mosey Louis turned pale and scrambled about without delay .
Benjamin was halfway to the shore before the sail went up in the Murray boat .
`` Don ' know what dey 're tinkin ' of , '' growled Mosey Louis .
`` Dey 'll be drown fust ting ! ''
Benjamin looked back anxiously .
Every boat was making for the shore .
The gale was steadily increasing .
He had his doubts about making a landing himself , and Braithwaite would be twenty minutes later .
`` But it is n't my lookout , '' he muttered .
Benjamin had landed and was hauling up his boat when Mr. Murray came running down the road .
`` Frank ? ''
he gasped .
`` Him and Leon went out , the foolish boys !
They neither of them know anything about a time like this . ''
`` I guess they 'll be all right , '' said Benjamin reassuringly .
`` They were late starting .
They may find it rather hard to land . ''
The other boats had all got in with more or less difficulty .
The Murray boat alone was out .
Men came scurrying along the shore in frightened groups of two and three .
The boat came swiftly in before the wind .
Mr. Murray was half beside himself .
`` It 'll be all right , sir , '' said one of the men .
`` If they ca n't land here , they can beach her on the sandshore . ''
`` If they only knew enough to do that , '' wailed the old man .
`` But they do n't -- they 'll come right on to the rocks . ''
`` Why do n't they lower their sail ? ''
said another .
`` They will upset if they do n't . ''
`` They 're lowering it now , '' said Benjamin .
The boat was now about 300 yards from the shore .
The sail did not go all the way down -- it seemed to be stuck .
`` Good God , what 's wrong ? ''
exclaimed Mr. Murray .
As he spoke , the boat capsized .
A yell of horror rose I from the beach .
Mr. Murray sprang toward Benjamin 's boat , but one of the men held him back .
`` You ca n't do it , sir .
I do n't know that anybody can . ''
Braithwaite and Leon were clinging to the boat .
Benjamin Selby , standing in the background , his lips set , his hands clenched , was fighting the hardest battle of his life .
He knew that he alone , out of all the men there , possessed the necessary skill and nerve to reach the boat if she could be reached at all .
There was a bare chance and a great risk .
This man whom he hated was drowning before his eyes .
Let him drown , then !
Why should he risk -- ay , and perchance lose -- his life for his enemy ?
No one could blame him for refusing -- and if Braithwaite were out of the way , Mary Stella might yet be his !
The temptation and victory passed in a few brief seconds .
He stepped forward , cool and self-possessed .
`` I 'm going out .
I want one man with me .
No one with child or wife .
Who 'll go ? ''
`` I will , '' shouted Mosey Louis .
`` I haf some spat wid dat Leon , but I not lak to see him drown for all dat ! ''
Benjamin offered no objection .
The French Canadian 's arm was strong and he possessed skill and experience .
Mr. Murray caught Benjamin 's arm .
`` No , no , Benjamin -- not you -- I ca n't see both my boys drowned . ''
Benjamin gently loosed the old man 's hold .
`` It 's for Mary Stella 's sake , '' he said hoarsely .
`` If I do n't come back , tell her that . ''
They launched the large dory with difficulty and pulled out into the surf .
Benjamin did not lose his nerve .
His quick arm , his steady eye did not fail .
A dozen times the wild-eyed watchers thought the boat was doomed , but as often she righted triumphantly .
At last the drowning men were reached and somehow or other hauled on board Benjamin 's craft .
It was easier to come back , for they beached the boat on the sand .
With a wild cheer the men on the shore rushed into the surf and helped to carry the half-unconscious Braithwaite and Leon ashore and up to the Murray fish-house .
Benjamin went home before anyone knew he had gone .
Mosey Louis was left behind to reap the honours ; he sat in a circle of admiring lads and gave all the details of the rescue .
`` Dat Leon , he not tink he know so much now ! ''
he said .
Braithwaite came to the shore next day somewhat pale and shaky .
He went straight to Benjamin and held out his hand .
`` Thank you , '' he said simply .
Benjamin bent lower over his work .
`` You need n't thank me , '' he said gruffly .
`` I wanted to let you drown .
But I went out for Mary Stella 's sake .
Tell me one thing -- I could n't bring myself to ask it of anyone else .
When are you to be -- married ? ''
`` The 12th of September . ''
Benjamin did not wince .
He turned away and looked out across the sea for a few moments .
The last agony of his great renunciation was upon him .
Then he turned and held out his hand .
`` For her sake , '' he said earnestly .
Frank Braithwaite put his slender white hand into the fisherman 's hard brown palm .
There were tears in both men 's eyes .
They parted in silence .
On the morning of the 12th of September Benjamin Selby went out to the fishing grounds as usual .
The catch was good , although the season was almost over .
In the afternoon the French Canadians went to sleep .
Benjamin intended to row down the shore for salt .
He stood by his dory , ready to start , but he seemed to be waiting for something .
At last it came : a faint train whistle blew , a puff of white smoke floated across a distant gap in the sandhills .
Mary Stella was gone at last -- gone forever from his life .
The honest blue eyes looking out over the sea did not falter ; bravely he faced his desolate future .
The white gulls soared over the water , little swishing ripples lapped on the sand , and through all the gentle , dreamy noises of the shore came the soft , unceasing murmur of the gulf .
Millicent 's Double -LSB- Illustration : '' ` NONSENSE , ' SAID MILLICENT , POINTING TO THEIR REFLECTED FACES '' -RSB- When Millicent Moore and Worth Gordon met each other on the first day of the term in the entrance hall of the Kinglake High School , both girls stopped short , startled .
Millicent Moore had never seen Worth Gordon before , but Worth Gordon 's face she had seen every day of her life , looking at her out of her own mirror !
They were total strangers , but when two girls look enough alike to be twins , it is not necessary to stand on ceremony .
After the first blank stare of amazement , both laughed outright .
Millicent held out her hand .
`` We ought to know each other right away , '' she said frankly .
`` My name is Millicent Moore , and yours is -- ? ''
`` Worth Gordon , '' responded Worth , taking the proffered hand with dancing eyes .
`` You actually frightened me when you came around that corner .
For a moment I had an uncanny feeling that I was a disembodied spirit looking at my own outward shape .
I know now what it feels like to have a twin . ''
`` Is n't it odd that we should look so much alike ? ''
said Millicent .
`` Do you suppose we can be any relation ?
I never heard of any relations named Gordon . ''
Worth shook her head .
`` I 'm quite sure we 're not , '' she said .
`` I have n't any relatives except my father 's stepsister with whom I 've lived ever since the death of my parents when I was a baby . ''
`` Well , you 'll really have to count me as a relative after this , '' laughed Millicent .
`` I 'm sure a girl who looks as much like you as I do must be at least as much relation as a stepaunt . ''
From that moment they were firm friends , and their friendship was still further cemented by the fact that Worth found it necessary to change her boarding-house and became Millicent 's roommate .
Their odd likeness was the wonder of the school and occasioned no end of amusing mistakes , for all the students found it hard to distinguish between them .
Seen apart it was impossible to tell which was which except by their clothes and style of hairdressing .
Seen together there were , of course , many minor differences which served to distinguish them .
Both girls were slight , with dark-brown hair , blue eyes and fair complexions .
But Millicent had more colour than Worth .
Even in repose , Millicent 's face expressed mirth and fun ; when Worth was not laughing or talking , her face was rather serious .
Worth 's eyes were darker , and her nose in profile slightly more aquiline .
But still , the resemblance between them was very striking .
In disposition they were also very similar .
Both were merry , fun-loving girls , fond of larks and jokes .
Millicent was the more heedless , but both were impulsive and too apt to do or say anything that came into their heads without counting the cost .
One late October evening Millicent came in , her cheeks crimson after her walk in the keen autumn air , and tossed two letters on the study table .
`` It 's a perfect evening , Worth .
We had the jolliest tramp .
You should have come with us instead of staying in moping over your books . ''
Worth smiled ruefully .
`` I simply had to prepare those problems for tomorrow , '' she said .
`` You see , Millie dear , there is a big difference between us in some things at least .
I 'm poor .
I simply have to pass my exams and get a teacher 's licence .
So I ca n't afford to take any chances .
You 're just attending high school for the sake of education alone , so you do n't really have to grind as I do . ''
`` I 'd like to do pretty well in the exams , though , for Dad 's sake , '' answered Millicent , throwing aside her wraps .
`` But I do n't mean to kill myself studying , just the same .
Time enough for that when exams draw nigh .
They 're comfortably far off yet .
But I 'm in a bit of a predicament , Worth , and I do n't know what to do .
Here are two invitations for Saturday afternoon and I simply must accept them both .
Now , how can I do it ?
You 're a marvel at mathematics -- so work out that problem for me .
`` See , here 's a note from Mrs. Kirby inviting me to tea at Beechwood .
She called on me soon after the term opened and invited me to tea the next week .
But I had another engagement for that afternoon , so could n't go .
Mr. Kirby is a business friend of Dad 's , and they are very nice people .
The other invitation is to the annual autumn picnic of the Alpha Gammas .
Now , Worth Gordon , I simply must go to that .
I would n't miss it for anything .
But I do n't want to offend Mrs. Kirby , and I 'm afraid I shall if I plead another engagement a second time .
Mother will be fearfully annoyed at me in that case .
Dear me , I wish there were two of me , one to go to the Alpha Gammas and one to Beechwood -- Worth Gordon ! ''
`` What 's the matter ? ''
`` There are two of me !
What 's the use of a double if not for a quandary like this !
Worth , you must go to tea at Beechwood Saturday afternoon in my place .
They 'll think you are my very self .
They 'll never know the difference .
Go and keep my place warm for me , there 's a dear . ''
`` Impossible , '' cried Worth .
`` I 'd never dare !
They 'd know there was something wrong . ''
`` They would n't -- they could n't .
None of the Kirbys have ever seen me except Mrs. Kirby , and she only for a few minutes one evening at dusk .
They do n't know I have a double and they ca n't possibly suspect .
Do go , Worth .
Why , it 'll be a regular lark , the best little joke ever !
And you 'll oblige me immensely besides .
Worthie , please . ''
Worth did not consent all at once ; but the idea rather appealed to her for its daring and excitement .
It would be a lark -- just at that time Worth did not see it in any other light .
Besides , she wanted to oblige Millicent , who coaxed vehemently .
Finally , Worth yielded and promised Millicent that she would go to Beechwood in her place .
`` You darling ! ''
said Millicent emphatically , flying to her table to write acceptances of both invitations .
Saturday afternoon Worth got ready to keep Millicent 's engagement .
`` Suppose I am found out and expelled from Beechwood in disgrace , '' she suggested laughingly , as she arranged her lace bertha before the glass .
`` Nonsense , '' said Millicent , pointing to their reflected faces .
`` The Kirbys can never suspect .
Why , if it were n't for the hair and the dresses , I 'd hardly know myself which of those reflections belonged to which . ''
`` What if they begin asking me about the welfare of the various members of your family ? ''
`` They wo n't ask any but the most superficial questions .
We 're not intimate enough for anything else .
I 've coached you pretty thoroughly , and I think you 'll get on all right . ''
Worth 's courage carried her successfully through the ordeal of arriving at Beechwood and meeting Mrs. Kirby .
She was unsuspectingly accepted as Millicent Moore , and found her impersonation of that young lady not at all difficult .
No dangerous subject of conversation was introduced and nothing personal was said until Mr. Kirby came in .
He looked so scrutinizingly at Worth as he shook hands with her that the latter felt her heart beating very fast .
Did he suspect ?
`` Upon my word , Miss Moore , '' he said genially , `` you gave me quite a start at first .
You are very like what a half-sister of mine used to be when a girl long ago .
Of course the resemblance must be quite accidental . ''
`` Of course , '' said Worth , without any very clear sense of what she was saying .
Her face was uncomfortably flushed and she was glad when tea was announced .
As nothing more of an embarrassing nature was said , Worth soon recovered her self-possession and was able to enter into the conversation .
She liked the Kirbys ; still , under her enjoyment , she was conscious of a strange , disagreeable feeling that deepened as the evening wore on .
It was not fear -- she was not at all afraid of betraying herself now .
It had even been easier than she had expected .
Then what was it ?
Suddenly Worth flushed again .
She knew now -- it was shame .
She was a guest in that house as an impostor !
What she had done seemed no longer a mere joke .
What would her host and hostess say if they knew ?
That they would never know made no difference .
She herself could not forget it , and her realization of the baseness of the deception grew stronger under Mrs. Kirby 's cordial kindness .
Worth never forgot that evening .
She compelled herself to chat as brightly as possible , but under it all was that miserable consciousness of falsehood , deepening every instant .
She was thankful when the time came to leave .
`` You must come up often , Miss Moore , '' said Mrs. Kirby kindly .
`` Look upon Beechwood as a second home while you are in Kinglake .
We have no daughter of our own , so we make a hobby of cultivating other people 's . ''
When Millicent returned home from the Alpha Gamma outing , she found Worth in their room , looking soberly at the mirror .
Something in her chum 's expression alarmed her .
`` Worth , what is it ?
Did they suspect ? ''
`` No , '' said Worth slowly .
`` They never suspected .
They think I am what I pretended to be -- Millicent Moore .
But , but , I wish I 'd never gone to Beechwood , Millie .
It was n't right .
It was mean and wrong .
It was acting a lie .
I ca n't tell you how ashamed I felt when I realized that . ''
`` Nonsense , '' said Millicent , looking rather sober , nevertheless .
`` No harm was done .
It 's only a good joke , Worth . ''
`` Yes , harm has been done .
I 've done harm to myself , for one thing .
I 've lost my self-respect .
I do n't blame you , Millie .
It 's all my own fault .
I 've done a dishonourable thing , dishonourable . ''
Millicent sighed .
`` The Alpha Gamma picnic was horribly slow , '' she said .
`` I did n't enjoy myself a bit .
I wish I had gone to Beechwood .
I did n't think about it 's being a practical falsehood before .
I suppose it was .
And I 've always prided myself on my strict truthfulness !
It was n't your fault , Worth !
It was mine .
But it ca n't be undone now . ''
`` No , it ca n't be undone , '' said Worth slowly , `` but it might be confessed .
We might tell Mrs. Kirby the truth and ask her to forgive us . ''
`` I could n't do such a thing , '' cried Millicent .
`` It is n't to be thought of ! ''
Nevertheless , Millicent did think of it several times that night and all through the following Sunday .
She could n't help thinking of it .
A dishonourable trick !
That thought stung Millicent .
Monday evening Millicent flung down the book from which she was vainly trying to study .
`` Worthie , it 's no use .
You were right .
There 's nothing to do but go and ` fess up to Mrs. Kirby .
I ca n't respect Millicent Moore again until I do .
I 'm going right up now . ''
`` I 'll go with you , '' said Worth quietly .
`` I was equally to blame and I must take my share of the humiliation . ''
When the girls reached Beechwood , they were shown into the library where the family were sitting .
Mrs. Kirby came smilingly forward to greet Millicent when her eyes fell upon Worth .
`` Why !
why ! ''
she said .
`` I did n't know you had a twin sister , Miss Moore . ''
`` Neither I have , '' said Millicent , laughing nervously .
`` This is my chum , Worth Gordon , but she is no relation whatever . ''
At the mention of Worth 's name , Mr. Kirby started slightly , but nobody noticed it .
Millicent went on in a trembling voice .
`` We 've come up to confess something , Mrs. Kirby .
I 'm sure you 'll think it dreadful , but we did n't mean any harm .
We just did n't realize , until afterwards . ''
Then Millicent , with burning cheeks , told the whole story and asked to be forgiven .
`` I , too , must apologize , '' said Worth , when Millicent had finished .
`` Can you pardon me , Mrs. Kirby ? ''
Mrs. Kirby had listened in amazed silence , but now she laughed .
`` Certainly , '' she said kindly .
`` I do n't suppose it was altogether right for you girls to play such a trick on anybody .
But I can make allowances for schoolgirl pranks .
I was a school girl once myself , and far from a model one .
You have atoned for your mistake by coming so frankly and confessing , and now we 'll forget all about it .
I think you have learned your lesson .
Both of you must just sit down and spend the evening with us .
Dear me , but you are bewilderingly alike ! ''
`` I 've something I want to say , '' interposed Mr. Kirby suddenly .
`` You say your name is Worth Gordon , '' he added , turning to Worth .
`` May I ask what your mother 's name was ? ''
`` Worth Mowbray , '' answered Worth wonderingly .
`` I was sure of it , '' said Mr. Kirby triumphantly , `` when I heard Miss Moore mention your name .
Your mother was my half-sister , and you are my niece . ''
Everybody exclaimed and for a few moments they all talked and questioned together .
Then Mr. Kirby explained fully .
`` I was born on a farm up-country .
My mother was a widow when she married my father , and she had one daughter , Worth Mowbray , five years older than myself .
When I was three years old , my mother died .
Worth went to live with our mother 's only living relative , an aunt .
My father and I removed to another section of the country .
He , too , died soon after , and I was brought up with an uncle 's family .
My sister came to see me once when she was a girl of seventeen and , as I remember her , very like you are now .
I never saw her again and eventually lost trace of her .
Many years later I endeavoured to find out her whereabouts .
Our aunt was dead , and the people in the village where she had lived informed me that my sister was also dead .
She had married a man named Gordon and had gone away , both she and her husband had died , and I was informed that they left no children , so I made no further inquiries .
There is no doubt that you are her daughter .
Well , well , this is a pleasant surprise , to find a little niece in this fashion ! ''
It was a pleasant surprise to Worth , too , who had thought herself all alone in the world and had felt her loneliness keenly .
They had a wonderful evening , talking and questioning and explaining .
Mr. Kirby declared that Worth must come and live with them .
`` We have no daughter , '' he said .
`` You must come to us in the place of one , Worth . ''
Mrs. Kirby seconded this with a cordiality that won Worth 's affection at once .
The girl felt almost bewildered by her happiness .
`` I feel as if I were in a dream , '' she said to Millicent as they walked to their boarding-house .
`` It 's really all too wonderful to grasp at once .
You do n't know , Millie , how lonely I 've felt often under all my nonsense and fun .
Aunt Delia was kind to me , but she was really no relation , she had a large family of her own , and I have always felt that she looked upon me as a rather inconvenient duty .
But now I 'm so happy ! ''
`` I 'm so glad for you , Worth , '' said Millicent warmly , `` although your gain will certainly be my loss , for I shall miss my roommate terribly when she goes to live at Beechwood .
Has n't it all turned out strangely ?
If you had never gone to Beechwood in my place , this would never have happened . ''
`` Say rather that if we had n't gone to confess our fault , it would never have happened , '' said Worth gently .
`` I 'm very , very glad that I have found Uncle George and such a loving welcome to his home .
But I 'm gladder still that I 've got my self-respect back .
I feel that I can look Worth Gordon in the face again . ''
`` I 've learned a wholesome lesson , too , '' admitted Millicent .
The Blue North Room `` This , '' said Sara , laying Aunt Josephina 's letter down on the kitchen table with such energy that in anybody but Sara it must have been said she threw it down , `` this is positively the last straw !
I have endured all the rest .
I have given up my chance of a musical education , when Aunt Nan offered it , that I might stay home and help Willard pay the mortgage off -- if it does n't pay us off first -- and I have , which was much harder , accepted the fact that we ca n't possibly afford to send Ray to the Valley Academy , even if I wore the same hat and coat for four winters .
I did not grumble when Uncle Joel came here to live because he wanted to be ` near his dear nephew 's children . '
I felt it my Christian duty to look pleasant when we had to give Cousin Caroline a home to save her from the poorhouse .
But my endurance and philosophy , and worst of all , my furniture , has reached a limit .
I can not have Aunt Josephina come here to spend the winter , because I have no room to put her in . ''
`` Hello , Sally , what 's the matter ? ''
asked Ray , coming in with a book .
It would have been hard to catch Ray without a book ; he generally took one even to bed with him .
Ray had a headful of brains , and Sara thought it was a burning shame that there seemed to be no chance for his going to college .
`` You look all rumpled up in your conscience , beloved sis , '' the boy went on , chaffingly .
`` My conscience is all right , '' said Sara severely .
`` It 's worse than that .
If you please , here 's a letter from Aunt Josephina !
She writes that she is very lonesome .
Her son has gone to South America , and wo n't be back until spring , and she wants to come and spend the winter with us . ''
`` Well , why not ? ''
asked Ray serenely .
Nothing ever bothered Ray .
`` The more the merrier . ''
`` Ray Sheldon !
Where are we to put her ?
We have no spare room , as you well know . ''
`` Ca n't she room with Cousin Caroline ? ''
`` Cousin Caroline 's room is too small for two .
It 's full to overflowing with her belongings now , and Aunt Josephina will bring two trunks at least .
Try again , bright boy . ''
`` What 's the matter with the blue north room ? ''
`` There is nothing the matter with it -- oh , nothing at all !
We could put Aunt Josephina there , but where will she sleep ?
Where will she wash her face ?
Will it not seem slightly inhospitable to invite her to sit on a bare floor ?
Have you forgotten that there is n't a stick of furniture in the blue north room and , worse still , that we have n't a spare cent to buy any , not even the cheapest kind ? ''
`` I 'll give it up , '' said Ray .
`` I might have a try at squaring the circle if you asked me , but the solution of the Aunt Josephina problem is beyond me . ''
`` The solution is simply that we must write to Aunt Josephina , politely but firmly , that we ca n't have her come , owing to lack of accommodation .
You must write the letter , Ray .
Make it as polite as you can , but above all make it firm . ''
`` Oh , but Sally , dear , '' protested Ray , who did n't relish having to write such a letter , `` is n't this rather hasty , rather inhospitable ?
Poor Aunt Josephina must really be rather lonely , and it 's only natural she should want to visit her relations . ''
`` We 're not her relations , '' cried Sara .
`` We 're not a speck of relation really .
She 's only the half-sister of Mother 's half-brother .
That sounds nice and relationy , does n't it ?
And she 's fussy and interfering , and she will fight with Cousin Caroline , everybody fights with Cousin Caroline -- '' `` Except Sara , '' interrupted Ray , but Sara went on with a rush , `` And we wo n't have a minute 's peace all winter .
Anyhow , where could we put her even if we wanted her to come ?
No , we ca n't have her ! ''
`` Mother was always very fond of Aunt Josephina , '' said Ray reflectively .
Sara had her lips open , all ready to answer whatever Ray might say , but she shut them suddenly and the boy went on .
`` Aunt Josephina thought a lot of Mother , too .
She used to say she knew there was always a welcome for her at Maple Hollow .
It does seem a pity , Sally dear , for your mother 's daughter to send word to Aunt Josephina , per my mother 's son , that there is n't room for her any longer at Maple Hollow . ''
`` I shall leave it to Willard , '' said Sara abruptly .
`` If he says to let her come , come she shall , even if Dorothy and I have to camp in the barn . ''
`` I 'm going to have a prowl around the garret , '' said Ray , apropos of nothing .
`` And I shall get the tea ready , '' answered Sara briskly .
`` Dorothy will be home from school very soon , and I hear Uncle Joel stirring .
Willard wo n't be back till dark , so there is no use waiting for him . ''
At twilight Sara decided to walk up the lane and meet Willard .
She always liked to meet him thus when he had been away for a whole day .
Sara thought there was nobody in the world as good and dear as Willard .
It was a dull grey November twilight ; the maples in the hollow were all leafless , and the hawthorn hedge along the lane was sere and frosted ; a little snow had fallen in the afternoon , and lay in broad patches on the brown fields .
The world looked very dull and dispirited , and Sara sighed .
She could not help thinking of the dark side of things just then .
`` Everything is wrong , '' said poor Sara dolefully .
`` Willard has to work like a slave , and yet with all his efforts he can barely pay the interest on the mortgage .
And Ray ought to go to college .
But I do n't see how we can ever manage .
To be sure , he wo n't be ready until next fall , but we wo n't have the money then any more than now .
It would take every bit of a hundred and fifty dollars to fit him out with books and clothes , and pay for board and tuition at the academy .
If he could just have a year there he could teach and earn his own way through college .
But we might as well hope for the moon as one hundred and fifty dollars . ''
Sara sighed again .
She was only eighteen , but she felt very old .
Willard was nineteen , and Willard had never had a chance to be young .
His father had died when he was twelve , and he had run the farm since then , he and Sara together indeed , for Sara was a capital planner and manager and worker .
The little mother had died two years ago , and the household cares had all fallen on Sara 's shoulders since .
Sometimes , as now , they pressed very heavily , but a talk with Willard always heartened her up .
Willard had his blue spells too , but Sara thought it a special Providence that their blue turns never came together .
When one got downhearted the other was always ready to do the cheering up .
Sara was glad to hear Willard whistling when he drove into the lane ; it was a sign he was in good spirits .
He pulled up , and Sara climbed into the wagon .
`` Things go all right today , Sally ? ''
he asked cheerfully .
`` There was a letter from Aunt Josephina , '' answered Sara , anxious to get the worst over , `` and she wants to come to Maple Hollow for the winter .
I thought at first we just could n't have her , but I decided to leave it to you . ''
`` Well , we 've got a pretty good houseful already , '' said Willard thoughtfully .
`` But I suppose if Aunt Josephina wants to come we 'd better have her .
I always liked Aunt Josephina , and so did Mother , you know . ''
`` I do n't know where we can put her .
We have n't any spare room , Will . ''
`` Ray and I can sleep in the kitchen loft .
You and Dolly take our room , and let Aunt Josephina take yours . ''
`` The kitchen loft is n't really fit to sleep in , '' said Sara pessimistically .
`` It 's awfully cold , and there 're mice and rats -- ugh !
You and Ray will get nibbled in spots .
But it 's the only thing to do if we must have Aunt Josephina .
I 'll get Ray to write to her tomorrow .
I could n't put enough cordiality into the letter if I wrote it myself . ''
Ray came in while Willard was at supper .
There were cobwebs all over him from his head to his heels .
`` I 've solved the Aunt J. problem , '' he announced cheerfully .
`` We will furnish the blue north room . ''
`` With what ? ''
asked Sara disbelievingly .
`` I 've been poking about in the garret and in the carriage house loft , '' said Ray , `` and I 've found furniture galore .
It 's very old and cobwebby -- witness my appearance -- and very much in want of scrubbing and a few nails .
But it will do . ''
`` I 'd forgotten about those old things , '' said Sara slowly .
`` They 've never been used since I can remember , and long before .
They were discarded before Mother came here .
But I thought they were all broken and quite useless . ''
`` Not at all .
I believe we can furbish them up sufficiently to make the room habitable .
It will be rather old-fashioned , but then it 's Hobson 's choice .
There are the pieces of an old bed out in the loft , and they can be put together .
There 's an old corner cupboard out there too , with leaded glass doors , two old solid wooden armchairs , and a funny old chest of drawers with a writing desk in place of the top drawer , all full of yellow old letters and trash .
I found it under a pile of old carpet .
Then there 's a washstand , and also a towel rack up in the garret , and the funniest old table with three claw legs , and a tippy top .
One leg is broken off , but I hunted around and found it , and I guess we can fix it on .
And there are two more old chairs and a queer little oval table with a cracked swing mirror on it . ''
`` I have it , '' exclaimed Sara , with a burst of inspiration , `` let us fix up a real old-fashioned room for Aunt Josephina .
It wo n't do to put anything modern with those old things .
One would kill the other .
I 'll put Mother 's rag carpet down in it , and the four braided mats Grandma Sheldon gave me , and the old brass candlestick and the Irish chain coverlet .
Oh , I believe it will be lots of fun . ''
It was .
For a week the Sheldons hammered and glued and washed and consulted .
The north room was already papered with a blue paper of an old-fashioned stripe-and-diamond pattern .
The rag carpet was put down , and the braided rugs laid on it .
The old bedstead was set up in one corner and , having been well cleaned and polished with beeswax and turpentine , was really a handsome piece of furniture .
On the washstand Sara placed a quaint old basin and ewer which had been Grandma Sheldon 's .
Ray had fixed up the table as good as new ; Sara had polished the brass claws , and on the table she put the brass tray , two candlesticks , and snuffers which had been long stowed away in the kitchen loft .
The dressing table and swing mirror , with its scroll frame of tarnished gilt , was in the window corner , and opposite it was the old chest of drawers .
The cupboard was set up in a corner , and beside it stood the spinning-wheel from the kitchen loft .
The big grandfather clock , which had always stood in the hall below was carried up , and two platters of blue willow-ware were set up over the mantel .
Above them was hung the faded sampler that Grandma Sheldon had worked ninety years ago when she was a little girl .
`` Do you know , '' said Sara , when they stood in the middle of the room and surveyed the result , `` I expected to have a good laugh over this , but it does n't look funny after all .
The things all seem to suit each other , some way , and they look good , do n't they ?
I mean they look real , clear through .
I believe that table and those drawers are solid mahogany .
And look at the carving on those bedposts .
Cleaning them has made such a difference .
I do hope Aunt Josephina wo n't mind their being so old . ''
Aunt Josephina did n't .
She was very philosophical about it when Sara explained that Cousin Caroline had the spare room , and the blue north room was all they had left .
`` Oh , it will be all right , '' she said , plainly determined to make the best of things .
`` Those old things are thought a lot of now , anyhow .
I ca n't say I fancy them much myself -- I like something a little brighter .
But the rich folks have gone cracked over them .
I know a woman in Boston that 's got her whole house furnished with old truck , and as soon as she hears of any old furniture anywhere she 's not contented till she 's got it .
She says it 's her hobby , and she spends a heap on it .
She 'd be in raptures if she saw this old room of yours , Sary . ''
`` Do you mean , '' said Sara slowly , `` that there are people who would buy old things like these ? ''
`` Yes , and pay more for them than would buy a real nice set with a marble-topped burey .
You may well say there 's lots of fools in the world , Sary . ''
Sara was not saying or thinking any such thing .
It was a new idea to her that any value was attached to old furniture , for Sara lived very much out of the world of fads and collectors .
But she did not forget what Aunt Josephina had said .
The winter passed away .
Aunt Josephina plainly enjoyed her visit , whatever the Sheldons felt about it .
In March her son returned , and Aunt Josephina went home to him .
Before she left , Sara asked her for the address of the woman whose hobby was old furniture , and the very afternoon after Aunt Josephina had gone Sara wrote and mailed a letter .
For a week she looked so mysterious that Willard and Ray could not guess what she was plotting .
At the end of that time Mrs. Stanton came .
Mrs. Stanton always declared afterwards that the mere sight of that blue north room gave her raptures .
Such a find !
Such a discovery !
A bedstead with carved posts , a claw-footed table , real old willow-ware plates with the birds ' bills meeting !
Here was luck , if you like !
When Willard and Ray came home to tea Sara was sitting on the stairs counting her wealth .
`` Sally , where did you discover all that long-lost treasure ? ''
demanded Ray .
`` Mrs. Stanton of Boston was here today , '' said Sara , enjoying the moment of revelation hugely .
`` She makes a hobby of collecting old furniture .
I sold her every blessed thing in the blue north room except Mother 's carpet and Grandma 's mats and sampler .
She wanted those too , but I could n't part with them .
She bought everything else and , '' Sara lifted her hands , full of bills , dramatically , `` here are two hundred and fifty dollars to take you to the Valley Academy next fall , Ray . ''
`` It would n't be fair to take it for that , '' said Ray , flushing .
`` You and Will -- '' `` Will and I say you must take it , '' said Sara .
`` Do n't we , Will ?
There is nothing we want so much as to give you a college start .
It is an enormous burden off my mind to think it is so nicely provided for .
Besides , most of those old things were yours by the right of rediscovery , and you voted first of all to have Aunt Josephina come . ''
`` You must take it , of course , Ray , '' said Willard .
`` Nothing else would give Sara and me so much pleasure .
A blessing on Aunt Josephina . ''
`` Amen , '' said Sara and Ray .
The Christmas Surprise at Enderly Road `` Phil , I 'm getting fearfully hungry .
When are we going to strike civilization ? ''
The speaker was my chum , Frank Ward .
We were home from our academy for the Christmas holidays and had been amusing ourselves on this sunshiny December afternoon by a tramp through the `` back lands , '' as the barrens that swept away south behind the village were called .
They were grown over with scrub maple and spruce , and were quite pathless save for meandering sheep tracks that crossed and recrossed , but led apparently nowhere .
Frank and I did not know exactly where we were , but the back lands were not so extensive but that we would come out somewhere if we kept on .
It was getting late and we wished to go home .
`` I have an idea that we ought to strike civilization somewhere up the Enderly Road pretty soon , '' I answered .
`` Do you call that civilization ? ''
said Frank , with a laugh .
No Blackburn Hill boy was ever known to miss an opportunity of flinging a slur at Enderly Road , even if no Enderly Roader were by to feel the sting .
Enderly Road was a miserable little settlement straggling back from Blackburn Hill .
It was a forsaken looking place , and the people , as a rule , were poor and shiftless .
Between Blackburn Hill and Enderly Road very little social intercourse existed and , as the Road people resented what they called the pride of Blackburn Hill , there was a good deal of bad feeling between the two districts .
Presently Frank and I came out on the Enderly Road .
We sat on the fence a few minutes to rest and discuss our route home .
`` If we go by the road it 's three miles , '' said Frank .
`` Is n't there a short cut ? ''
`` There ought to be one by the wood-lane that comes out by Jacob Hart 's , '' I answered , `` but I do n't know where to strike it . ''
`` Here is someone coming now ; we 'll inquire , '' said Frank , looking up the curve of the hard-frozen road .
The `` someone '' was a little girl of about ten years old , who was trotting along with a basketful of school books on her arm .
She was a pale , pinched little thing , and her jacket and red hood seemed very old and thin .
`` Hello , missy , '' I said , as she came up , and then I stopped , for I saw she had been crying .
`` What is the matter ? ''
asked Frank , who was much more at ease with children than I was , and had always a warm spot in his heart for their small troubles .
`` Has your teacher kept you in for being naughty ? ''
The mite dashed her little red knuckles across her eyes and answered indignantly , `` No , indeed .
I stayed after school with Minnie Lawler to sweep the floor . ''
`` And did you and Minnie quarrel , and is that why you are crying ? ''
asked Frank solemnly .
`` Minnie and I never quarrel .
I am crying because we ca n't have the school decorated on Monday for the examination , after all .
The Dickeys have gone back on us ... after promising , too , '' and the tears began to swell up in the blue eyes again .
`` Very bad behaviour on the part of the Dickeys , '' commented Frank .
`` But ca n't you decorate the school without them ? ''
`` Why , of course not .
They are the only big boys in the school .
They said they would cut the boughs , and bring a ladder tomorrow and help us nail the wreaths up , and now they wo n't ... and everything is spoiled ... and Miss Davis will be so disappointed . ''
By dint of questioning Frank soon found out the whole story .
The semi-annual public examination was to be held on Monday afternoon , the day before Christmas .
Miss Davis had been drilling her little flock for the occasion ; and a program of recitations , speeches , and dialogues had been prepared .
Our small informant , whose name was Maggie Bates , together with Minnie Lawler and several other little girls , had conceived the idea that it would be a fine thing to decorate the schoolroom with greens .
For this it was necessary to ask the help of the boys .
Boys were scarce at Enderly school , but the Dickeys , three in number , had promised to see that the thing was done .
`` And now they wo n't , '' sobbed Maggie .
`` Matt Dickey is mad at Miss Davis 'cause she stood him on the floor today for not learning his lesson , and he says he wo n't do a thing nor let any of the other boys help us .
Matt just makes all the boys do as he says .
I feel dreadful bad , and so does Minnie . ''
`` Well , I would n't cry any more about it , '' said Frank consolingly .
`` Crying wo n't do any good , you know .
Can you tell us where to find the wood-lane that cuts across to Blackburn Hill ? ''
Maggie could , and gave us minute directions .
So , having thanked her , we left her to pursue her disconsolate way and betook ourselves homeward .
`` I would like to spoil Matt Dickey 's little game , '' said Frank .
`` He is evidently trying to run things at Enderly Road school and revenge himself on the teacher .
Let us put a spoke in his wheel and do Maggie a good turn as well . ''
`` Agreed .
But how ? ''
Frank had a plan ready to hand and , when we reached home , we took his sisters , Carrie and Mabel , into our confidence ; and the four of us worked to such good purpose all the next day , which was Saturday , that by night everything was in readiness .
At dusk Frank and I set out for the Enderly Road , carrying a basket , a small step-ladder , an unlit lantern , a hammer , and a box of tacks .
It was dark when we reached the Enderly Road schoolhouse .
Fortunately , it was quite out of sight of any inhabited spot , being surrounded by woods .
Hence , mysterious lights in it at strange hours would not be likely to attract attention .
The door was locked , but we easily got in by a window , lighted our lantern , and went to work .
The schoolroom was small , and the old-fashioned furniture bore marks of hard usage ; but everything was very snug , and the carefully swept floor and dusted desks bore testimony to the neatness of our small friend Maggie and her chum Minnie .
Our basket was full of mottoes made from letters cut out of cardboard and covered with lissome sprays of fir .
They were , moreover , adorned with gorgeous pink and red tissue roses , which Carrie and Mabel had contributed .
We had considerable trouble in getting them tacked up properly , but when we had succeeded , and had furthermore surmounted doors , windows , and blackboard with wreaths of green , the little Enderly Road schoolroom was quite transformed .
`` It looks nice , '' said Frank in a tone of satisfaction .
`` Hope Maggie will like it . ''
We swept up the litter we had made , and then scrambled out of the window .
`` I 'd like to see Matt Dickey 's face when he comes Monday morning , '' I laughed , as we struck into the back lands .
`` I 'd like to see that midget of a Maggie 's , '' said Frank .
`` See here , Phil , let 's attend the examination Monday afternoon .
I 'd like to see our decorations in daylight . ''
We decided to do so , and also thought of something else .
Snow fell all day Sunday , so that , on Monday morning , sleighs had to be brought out .
Frank and I drove down to the store and invested a considerable share of our spare cash in a varied assortment of knick-knacks .
After dinner we drove through to the Enderly Road schoolhouse , tied our horse in a quiet spot , and went in .
Our arrival created quite a sensation for , as a rule , Blackburn Hillites did not patronize Enderly Road functions .
Miss Davis , the pale , tired-looking little teacher , was evidently pleased , and we were given seats of honour next to the minister on the platform .
Our decorations really looked very well , and were further enhanced by two large red geraniums in full bloom which , it appeared , Maggie had brought from home to adorn the teacher 's desk .
The side benches were lined with Enderly Road parents , and all the pupils were in their best attire .
Our friend Maggie was there , of course , and she smiled and nodded towards the wreaths when she caught our eyes .
The examination was a decided success , and the program which followed was very creditable indeed .
Maggie and Minnie , in particular , covered themselves with glory , both in class and on the platform .
At its close , while the minister was making his speech , Frank slipped out ; when the minister sat down the door opened and Santa Claus himself , with big fur coat , ruddy mask , and long white beard , strode into the room with a huge basket on his arm , amid a chorus of surprised `` Ohs '' from old and young .
Wonderful things came out of that basket .
There was some little present for every child there -- tops , knives , and whistles for the boys , dolls and ribbons for the girls , and a `` prize '' box of candy for everybody , all of which Santa Claus presented with appropriate remarks .
It was an exciting time , and it would have been hard to decide which were the most pleased , parents , pupils , or teacher .
In the confusion Santa Claus discreetly disappeared , and school was dismissed .
Frank , having tucked his toggery away in the sleigh , was waiting for us outside , and we were promptly pounced upon by Maggie and Minnie , whose long braids were already adorned with the pink silk ribbons which had been their gifts . ''
You decorated the school , '' cried Maggie excitedly .
`` I know you did .
I told Minnie it was you the minute I saw it . ''
`` You 're dreaming , child , '' said Frank .
`` Oh , no , I 'm not , '' retorted Maggie shrewdly , `` and was n't Matt Dickey mad this morning !
Oh , it was such fun .
I think you are two real nice boys and so does Minnie -- do n't you Minnie ? ''
Minnie nodded gravely .
Evidently Maggie did the talking in their partnership .
`` This has been a splendid examination , '' said Maggie , drawing a long breath .
`` Real Christmassy , you know .
We never had such a good time before . ''
`` Well , it has paid , do n't you think ? ''
asked Frank , as we drove home .
`` Rather , '' I answered .
It did `` pay '' in other ways than the mere pleasure of it .
There was always a better feeling between the Roaders and the Hillites thereafter .
The big brothers of the little girls , to whom our Christmas surprise had been such a treat , thought it worthwhile to bury the hatchet , and quarrels between the two villages became things of the past .
The Dissipation of Miss Ponsonby We had n't been very long in Glenboro before we managed to get acquainted with Miss Ponsonby .
It did not come about in the ordinary course of receiving and returning calls , for Miss Ponsonby never called on anybody ; neither did we meet her at any of the Glenboro social functions , for Miss Ponsonby never went anywhere except to church , and very seldom there .
Her father would n't let her .
No , it simply happened because her window was right across the alleyway from ours .
The Ponsonby house was next to us , on the right , and between us were only a fence , a hedge of box , and a sprawly acacia tree that shaded Miss Ponsonby 's window , where she always sat sewing -- patchwork , as I 'm alive -- when she was n't working around the house .
Patchwork seemed to be Miss Ponsonby 's sole and only dissipation of any kind .
We guessed her age to be forty-five at least , but we found out afterward that we were mistaken .
She was only thirty-five .
She was tall and thin and pale , one of those drab-tinted persons who look as if they had never felt a rosy emotion in their lives .
She had any amount of silky , fawn-coloured hair , always combed straight back from her face , and pinned in a big , tight bun just above her neck -- the last style in the world for any woman with Miss Ponsonby 's nose to adopt .
But then I doubt if Miss Ponsonby had any idea what her nose was really like .
I do n't believe she ever looked at herself critically in a mirror in her life .
Her features were rather nice , and her expression tamely sweet ; her eyes were big , timid , china-blue orbs that looked as if she had been badly scared when she was little and had never got over it ; she never wore anything but black , and , to crown all , her first name was Alicia .
Miss Ponsonby sat and sewed at her window for hours at a time , but she never looked our way , partly , I suppose , from habit induced by modesty , since the former occupants of our room had been two gay young bachelors , whose names Jerry and I found out all over our window-panes with a diamond .
Jerry and I sat a great deal at ours , laughing and talking , but Miss Ponsonby never lifted her head or eyes .
Jerry could n't stand it long ; she declared it got on her nerves ; besides , she felt sorry to see a fellow creature wasting so many precious moments of a fleeting lifetime at patchwork .
So one afternoon she hailed Miss Ponsonby with a cheerful `` hello , '' and Miss Ponsonby actually looked over and said `` good afternoon , '' as prim as an eighteen-hundred-and-forty fashion plate .
Then Jerry , whose name is Geraldine only in the family Bible , talked to her about the weather .
Jerry can talk interestingly about anything .
In five minutes she had performed a miracle -- she had made Miss Ponsonby laugh .
In five minutes more she was leaning half out of the window showing Miss Ponsonby a new , white , fluffy , frivolous , chiffony waist of hers , and Miss Ponsonby was leaning halfway out of hers looking at it eagerly .
At the end of a quarter of an hour they were exchanging confidences about their favourite books .
Jerry was a confirmed Kiplingomaniac , but Miss Ponsonby adored Laura Jean Libbey .
She said sorrowfully she supposed she ought not to read novels at all since her father disapproved .
We found out later on that Mr. Ponsonby 's way of expressing disapproval was to burn any he got hold of , and storm at his daughter about them like the confirmed old crank he was .
Poor Miss Ponsonby had to keep her Laura Jeans locked up in her trunk , and it was n't often she got a new one .
From that day dated our friendship with Miss Ponsonby , a curious friendship , only carried on from window to window .
We never saw Miss Ponsonby anywhere else ; we asked her to come over but she said her father did n't allow her to visit anybody .
Miss Ponsonby was one of those meek women who are ruled by whomsoever happens to be nearest them , and woe be unto them if that nearest happen to be a tyrant .
Her meekness fairly infuriated Jerry .
But we liked Miss Ponsonby and we pitied her .
She confided to us that she was very lonely and that she wrote poetry .
We never asked to see the poetry , although I think she would have liked to show it .
But , as Jerry says , there are limits .
We told Miss Ponsonby all about our dances and picnics and beaus and pretty dresses ; she was never tired of hearing of them ; we smuggled new library novels -- Jerry got our cook to buy them -- and boxes of chocolates , from our window to hers ; we sat there on moonlit nights and communed with her while other girls down the street were entertaining callers on their verandahs ; we did everything we could for her except to call her Alicia , although she begged us to do so .
But it never came easily to our tongues ; we thought she must have been born and christened Miss Ponsonby ; `` Alicia '' was something her mother could only have dreamed about her .
We thought we knew all about Miss Ponsonby 's past ; but even pale , drab , china-blue women can have their secrets and keep them .
It was a full half year before we discovered Miss Ponsonby 's .
* * * * * In October , Stephen Shaw came home from the west to visit his father and mother after an absence of fifteen years .
Jerry and I met him at a party at his brother-in-law 's .
We knew he was a bachelor of forty-five or so and had made heaps of money in the lumber business , so we expected to find him short and round and bald , with bulgy blue eyes and a double chin .
On the contrary , he was a tall , handsome man with clear-cut features , laughing black eyes like a boy 's , and iron-grey hair .
That iron-grey hair nearly finished Jerry ; she thinks there is nothing so distinguished and she had the escape of her life from falling in love with Stephen Shaw .
He was as gay as the youngest , danced splendidly , went everywhere , and took all the Glenboro girls about impartially .
It was rumoured that he had come east to look for a wife but he did n't seem to be in any particular hurry to find her .
One evening he called on Jerry ; that is to say , he did ask for both of us , but within ten minutes Jerry had him mewed up in the cosy corner to the exclusion of all the rest of the world .
I felt that I was a huge crowd , so I obligingly decamped upstairs and sat down by my window to `` muse , '' as Miss Ponsonby would have said .
It was a glorious moonlight night , with just a hint of October frost in the air -- enough to give sparkle and tang .
After a few moments I became aware that Miss Ponsonby was also `` musing '' at her window in the shadow of the acacia tree .
In that dim light she looked quite pretty .
It was suddenly borne in upon me for the first time that , when Miss Ponsonby was young , she must have been very pretty , with that delicate elusive fashion of beauty which fades so early if the life is not kept in it by love and tenderness .
It seemed odd , somehow , to think of Miss Ponsonby as young and pretty .
She seemed so essentially middle-aged and faded .
`` Lovely night , Miss Ponsonby , '' I said brilliantly .
`` A very beautiful night , dear Elizabeth , '' answered Miss Ponsonby in that tired little voice of hers that always seemed as drab-coloured as the rest of her .
`` I 'm mopy , '' I said frankly .
`` Jerry has concentrated herself on Stephen Shaw for the evening and I 'm left on the fringe of things . ''
Miss Ponsonby did n't say anything for a few moments .
When she spoke some strange and curious note had come into her voice , as if a chord , long unswept and silent , had been suddenly thrilled by a passing hand .
`` Did I understand you to say that Geraldine was -- entertaining Stephen Shaw ? ''
`` Yes .
He 's home from the west and he 's delightful , '' I replied .
`` All the Glenboro girls are quite crazy over him .
Jerry and I are as bad as the rest .
He is n't at all young but he 's very fascinating . ''
`` Stephen Shaw ! ''
repeated Miss Ponsonby faintly .
`` So Stephen Shaw is home again ! ''
`` Why , I suppose you would know him long ago , '' I said , remembering that Stephen Shaw 's youth must have been contemporaneous with Miss Ponsonby 's .
`` Yes , I used to know him , '' said Miss Ponsonby very slowly .
She did not say anything more , which I thought a little odd , for she was generally full of mild curiosity about all strangers and sojourners in Glenboro .
Presently she got up and went away from her window .
Deserted even by Miss Ponsonby , I went grumpily to bed .
Then Mrs. George Hubbard gave a big dance .
Jerry and I were pleasantly excited .
The Hubbards were the smartest of the Glenboro smart set and their entertainments were always quite brilliant affairs for a small country village like ours .
This party was professedly given in honour of Stephen Shaw , who was to leave for the west again in a week 's time .
On the evening of the party Jerry and I went to our room to dress .
And there , across at her window in the twilight , sat Miss Ponsonby , crying .
I had never seen Miss Ponsonby cry before .
`` What is the matter ? ''
I called out softly and anxiously .
`` Oh , nothing , '' sobbed Miss Ponsonby , `` only -- only -- I 'm invited to the party tonight -- Susan Hubbard is my cousin , you know -- and I would like so much to go . ''
`` Then why do n't you ? ''
said Jerry briskly .
`` My father wo n't let me , '' said Miss Ponsonby , swallowing a sob as if she were a little girl of ten years old .
Jerry had to dodge behind the curtain to hide a smile .
`` It 's too bad , '' I said sympathetically , but wondering a little why Miss Ponsonby seemed so worked up about it .
I knew she had sometimes been invited out before and had not been allowed to go , but she had never cared apparently .
`` Well , what is to be done ? ''
I whispered to Jerry .
`` Take Miss Ponsonby to the party with us , of course , '' said Jerry , popping out from behind the curtain .
I did n't ask her if she expected to fly through the air with Miss Ponsonby , although short of that I could n't see how the latter was to be got out of the house without her father knowing .
The old gentleman had a den off the hall where he always sat in the evening and smoked fiercely , after having locked all the doors to keep the servants in .
He was a delightful sort of person , that old Mr. Ponsonby .
Jerry poked her head as far as she could out of the window .
`` Miss Ponsonby , you are going to the dance , '' she said in a cautious undertone , `` so do n't cry any more or your eyes will be dreadfully red . ''
`` It is impossible , '' said Miss Ponsonby resignedly .
`` Nothing is impossible when I make up my mind , '' said Jerry firmly .
`` You must get dressed , climb down that acacia tree , and join us in our yard .
It will be pitch dark in a few minutes and your father will never know . ''
I had a frantic vision of Miss Ponsonby scrambling down that acacia tree like an eloping damsel .
But Jerry was in dead earnest , and really it was quite possible if Miss Ponsonby only thought so .
I did not believe she would think so , but I was mistaken .
Her thorough course in Libbey heroines and their marvellous escapades had quite prepared her to contemplate such an adventure calmly -- in the abstract at least .
But another obstacle presented itself .
`` It 's impossible , '' she said again , after her first flash hope .
`` I have n't a fit dress to wear -- I 've nothing at all but my black cashmere and it is three years old . ''
But the more hindrances in Jerry 's way when she sets out to accomplish something the more determined and enthusiastic she becomes .
I listened to her with amazement .
`` I have a dress I 'll lend you , '' she said resolutely .
`` And I 'll go over and fix you up as soon as it 's a little darker .
Go now and bathe your eyes and just trust to me . ''
Miss Ponsonby 's long habit of obedience to whatever she was told stood her in good stead now .
She obeyed Jerry without another word .
Jerry seized me by the waist and waltzed me around the room in an ecstasy .
`` Jerry Elliott , how are you going to carry this thing through ? ''
I demanded sternly .
`` Easily enough , '' responded Jerry .
`` You know that black lace dress of mine -- the one with the apricot slip .
I 've never worn it since I came to Glenboro , so nobody will know it 's mine , and I never mean to wear it again for it 's got too tight .
It 's a trifle old-fashioned , but that wo n't matter for Glenboro , and it will fit Miss Ponsonby all right .
She 's about my height and figure .
I 'm determined that poor soul shall have a dissipation for once in her life since she hankers for it .
Come on now , Elizabeth .
It will be a lark . ''
I caught Jerry 's enthusiasm , and while she hunted out the box containing the black lace dress , I hastily gathered together some other odds and ends I thought might be useful -- a black aigrette , a pair of black silk gloves , a spangled gauze fan , and a pair of slippers .
They would n't have stood daylight , but they looked all right after night .
As we left the room I caught up some pale pink roses on my table .
We pushed through a little gap in the privet hedge and found ourselves under the acacia tree with Miss Ponsonby peering anxiously at us from above .
I wanted to shriek with laughter , the whole thing seemed so funny and unreal .
Jerry , although she has n't climbed trees since she was twelve , went up that acacia as nimbly as a pussy-cat , took the box and things from me , passed them to Miss Ponsonby , and got in at the window while I went back to my own room to dress , hoping old Mr. Ponsonby would n't be running out to ring the fire alarm .
In a very short time I heard Miss Ponsonby and Jerry at the opposite window , and I rushed to mine to see the sight .
But Miss Ponsonby , with a red fascinator over her head and a big cape wrapped round her , slipped out of the window and down that blessed acacia tree as neatly and nimbly as if she had been accustomed to doing it for exercise every day of her life .
There were possibilities in Miss Ponsonby .
In two more minutes they were both safe in our room .
Then Jerry threw off Miss Ponsonby 's wraps and stepped back .
I know I stared until my eyes stuck out of my head .
Was that Miss Ponsonby -- that !
The black lace dress , with the pinkish sheen of its slip beneath , suited her slim shape to perfection and clung around her in lovely , filmy curves that made her look willowy and girlish .
It was high-necked , just cut away slightly at the throat , and had great , loose , hanging frilly sleeves of lace .
Jerry had shaken out her hair and piled it high on her head in satiny twists and loops , with a pompadour such as Miss Ponsonby could never have thought about .
It suited her tremendously and seemed to alter the whole character of her face , giving verve and piquancy to her delicate little features .
The excitement had flushed her cheeks into positive pinkness and her eyes were starry .
The roses were pinned on her shoulder .
Miss Ponsonby , as she stood there , was a pretty woman , with fifteen apparent birthdays the less .
`` Oh , Alicia , you look just lovely ! ''
I gasped .
The name slipped out quite naturally .
I never thought about it at all .
`` My dear Elizabeth , '' she said , `` it 's like a dream of lost youth . ''
We got Jerry ready and then we started for the Hubbards ' , out by our back door and through our neighbour-on-the-left 's lane to avoid all observation .
Miss Ponsonby was breathless with terror .
She was sure every footstep she heard behind her was her father 's in pursuit .
She almost fainted on the spot when a belated man came tearing along the street .
Jerry and I breathed a sigh of devout thanksgiving when we found ourselves safely in the Hubbard parlour .
We were early , but Stephen Shaw was there before us .
He came up to us at once , and just then Miss Ponsonby turned around .
`` Alicia ! ''
he said .
`` How do you do , Stephen ? ''
she said tremulously .
And there he was looking down at her with an expression on his face that none of the Glenboro girls he had been calling on had ever seen .
Jerry and I just simply melted away .
We can see through grindstones when there are holes in them !
We went out and sat down on the stairs .
`` There 's a mystery here , '' said Jerry , `` but Miss Ponsonby shall explain it to us before we let her climb up that acacia tree tonight .
Now that I come to think of it , the first night he called he asked me about her .
Wanted to know if her father were the same old blustering tyrant he always was , and if we knew her at all .
I 'm afraid I made a little mild fun of her , and he did n't say anything more .
Well , I 'm awfully glad now that I did n't fall in love with him .
I could have , but I would n't . ''
Miss Ponsonby 's appearance at the Hubbards ' party was the biggest sensation Glenboro had had for years .
And in her way , she was a positive belle .
She did n't dance , but all the middle-aged men , widowers , wedded , and bachelors , who had known her in her girlhood crowded around her , and she laughed and chatted as I had n't even imagined Miss Ponsonby could laugh and chat .
Jerry and I revelled in her triumph , for did we not feel that it was due to us ?
At last Miss Ponsonby disappeared ; shortly after Jerry and I blundered into the library to fix some obstreperous hairpins , and there we found her and Stephen Shaw in the cosy corner .
There were no explanations on the road home , for Miss Ponsonby walked behind us with Stephen Shaw in the pale , late-risen October moonshine .
But when we had sneaked through the neighbour-to-the-left 's lane and reached our side verandah we waited for her , and as soon as Stephen Shaw had gone we laid violent hands on Miss Ponsonby and made her ` fess up there on the dark , chilly verandah , at one o'clock in the morning .
`` Miss Ponsonby , '' said Jerry , `` before we assist you in returning to those ancestral halls of yours you 've simply got to tell us what all this means . ''
Miss Ponsonby gave a little , shy , nervous laugh .
`` Stephen Shaw and I were engaged to be married long ago , '' she said simply .
`` But Father disapproved .
Stephen was poor then .
And so -- and so -- I sent him away .
What else could I do ? ''
-- for Jerry had snorted -- `` Father had to be obeyed .
But it broke my heart .
Stephen went away -- he was very angry -- and I have never seen him since .
When Susan Hubbard invited me to the party I felt as if I must go -- I must see Stephen once more .
I never thought for a minute that he remembered me -- or cared still ... '' `` But he does ? ''
said Jerry breathlessly .
Jerry never scruples to ask anything right out that she wants to know .
`` Yes , '' said Miss Ponsonby softly .
`` Is n't it wonderful ?
I could hardly believe it -- I am so changed .
But he said tonight he had never thought of any other woman .
He -- he came home to see me .
But when I never went anywhere , even when I must know he was home , he thought I did n't want to see him .
If I had n't gone tonight -- oh , I owe it all to you two dear girls ! ''
`` When are you to be married ? ''
demanded that terrible Jerry .
`` As soon as possible , '' said Miss Ponsonby .
`` Stephen was going away next week , but he says he will wait until I can get ready . ''
`` Do you think your father will object this time ? ''
I queried .
`` No , I do n't think so .
Stephen is a rich man now , you know .
That would n't make any difference with me -- but Father is very -- practical .
Stephen is going to see him tomorrow . ''
`` But what if he does object ? ''
I persisted anxiously .
`` The acacia tree will still be there , '' said Miss Ponsonby firmly .
The Falsoms ' Christmas Dinner `` Well , so it 's all settled , '' said Stephen Falsom .
`` Yes , '' assented Alexina .
`` Yes , it is , '' she repeated , as if somebody had questioned it .
Then Alexina sighed .
Whatever `` it '' was , the fact of its being settled did not seem to bring Alexina any great peace of mind -- nor Stephen either , judging from his face , which wore a sort of `` suffer and be strong '' expression just then .
`` When do you go ? ''
said Alexina , after a pause , during which she had frowned out of the window and across the Tracy yard .
Josephine Tracy and her brother Duncan were strolling about the yard in the pleasant December sunshine , arm in arm , laughing and talking .
They appeared to be a nice , harmless pair of people , but the sight of them did not seem to please Alexina .
`` Just as soon as we can sell the furniture and move away , '' said Stephen moodily .
`` Heigh-ho !
So this is what all our fine ambitions have come to , Lexy , your music and my M.D. .
A place in a department store for you , and one in a lumber mill for me . ''
`` I do n't dare to complain , '' said Alexina slowly .
`` We ought to be so thankful to get the positions .
I am thankful .
And I do n't mind so very much about my music .
But I do wish you could have gone to college , Stephen . ''
`` Never mind me , '' said Stephen , brightening up determinedly .
`` I 'm going to go into the lumber business enthusiastically .
You do n't know what unsuspected talents I may develop along that line .
The worst of it is that we ca n't be together .
But I 'll keep my eyes open , and perhaps I 'll find a place for you in Lessing . ''
Alexina said nothing .
Her separation from Stephen was the one point in their fortunes she could not bear to discuss .
There were times when Alexina did not see how she was going to exist without Stephen .
But she never said so to him .
She thought he had enough to worry him without her making matters worse .
`` Well , '' said Stephen , getting up , `` I 'll run down to the office .
And see here , Lexy .
Day after tomorrow is Christmas .
Are we going to celebrate it at all ?
If so I 'd better order the turkey . ''
Alexina looked thoughtful .
`` I do n't know , Stephen .
We 're short of money , you know , and the fund is dwindling every day .
Do n't you think it 's a little extravagant to have a turkey for two people ?
And somehow I do n't feel a bit Christmassy .
I think I 'd rather spend it just like any other day and try to forget that it is Christmas .
Everything would be so different . ''
`` That 's true , Lexy .
And we must look after the bawbees closely , I 'll admit . ''
When Stephen had gone out Alexina cried a little , not very much , because she did n't want her eyes to be red against Stephen 's return .
But she had to cry a little .
As she had said , everything was so different from what it had been a year ago .
Their father had been alive then and they had been very cosy and happy in the little house at the end of the street .
There had been no mother there since Alexina 's birth sixteen years ago .
Alexina had kept house for her father and Stephen since she was ten .
Stephen was a clever boy and intended to study medicine .
Alexina had a good voice , and something was to be done about training it .
The Tracys lived next door to them .
Duncan Tracy was Stephen 's particular chum , and Josephine Tracy was Alexina 's dearest friend .
Alexina was never lonely when Josie was near by to laugh and chat and plan with .
Then , all at once , troubles came .
In June the firm of which Mr. Falsom was a member failed .
There was some stigma attached to the failure , too , although the blame did not rest upon Mr. Falsom , but with his partner .
Worry and anxiety aggravated the heart trouble from which he had suffered for some time , and a month later he died .
Alexina and Stephen were left alone to face the knowledge that they were penniless , and must look about for some way of supporting themselves .
At first they hoped to be able to get something to do in Thorndale , so that they might keep their home .
This proved impossible .
After much discouragement and disappointment Stephen had secured a position in the lumber mill at Lessing , and Alexina was promised a place in a departmental store in the city .
To make matters worse , Duncan Tracy and Stephen had quarrelled in October .
It was only a boyish disagreement over some trifle , but bitter words had passed .
Duncan , who was a quick-tempered lad , had twitted Stephen with his father 's failure , and Stephen had resented it hotly .
Duncan was sorry for and ashamed of his words as soon as they were uttered , but he would not humble himself to say so .
Alexina had taken Stephen 's part and her manner to Josie assumed a tinge of coldness .
Josie quickly noticed and resented it , and the breach between the two girls widened almost insensibly , until they barely spoke when they met .
Each blamed the other and cherished bitterness in her heart .
When Stephen came home from the post office he looked excited .
`` Were there any letters ? ''
asked Alexina .
`` Well , rather !
One from Uncle James ! ''
`` Uncle James , '' exclaimed Alexina , incredulously .
`` Yes , beloved sis .
Oh , you need n't try to look as surprised as I did .
And I ordered the turkey after all .
Uncle James has invited himself here to dinner on Christmas Day .
You 'll have a chance to show your culinary skill , for you know we 've always been told that Uncle James was a gourmand . ''
Alexina read the letter in a maze .
It was a brief epistle , stating that the writer wished to make the acquaintance of his niece and nephew , and would visit them on Christmas Day .
That was all .
But Alexina instantly saw a future of rosy possibilities .
For Uncle James , who lived in the city and was really a great-uncle , had never taken the slightest notice of their family since his quarrel with their father twenty years ago ; but this looked as if Uncle James were disposed to hold out the olive branch .
`` Oh , Stephen , if he likes you , and if he offers to educate you ! ''
breathed Alexina .
`` Perhaps he will if he is favourably impressed .
But we 'll have to be so careful , he is so whimsical and odd , at least everybody has always said so .
A little thing may turn the scale either way .
Anyway , we must have a good dinner for him .
I 'll have plum pudding and mince pie . ''
For the next thirty-six hours Alexina lived in a whirl .
There was so much to do .
The little house was put in apple pie order from top to bottom , and Stephen was set to stoning raisins and chopping meat and beating eggs .
Alexina was perfectly reckless ; no matter how big a hole it made in their finances Uncle James must have a proper Christmas dinner .
A favourable impression must be made .
Stephen 's whole future -- Alexina did not think about her own at all just then -- might depend on it .
Christmas morning came , fine and bright and warm .
It was more like a morning in early spring than in December , for there was no snow or frost , and the air was moist and balmy .
Alexina was up at daybreak , cleaning and decorating at a furious rate .
By eleven o'clock everything was finished or going forward briskly .
The plum pudding was bubbling in the pot , the turkey -- Burton 's plumpest -- was sizzling in the oven .
The shelf in the pantry bore two mince pies upon which Alexina was willing to stake her culinary reputation .
And Stephen had gone to the train to meet Uncle James .
From her kitchen window Alexina could see brisk preparations going on in the Tracy kitchen .
She knew Josie and Duncan were all alone ; their parents had gone to spend Christmas with friends in Lessing .
In spite of her hurry and excitement Alexina found time to sigh .
Last Christmas Josie and Duncan had come over and eaten their dinner with them .
But now last Christmas seemed very far away .
And Josie had behaved horridly .
Alexina was quite clear on that point .
Then Stephen came with Uncle James .
Uncle James was a rather pompous , fussy old man with red cheeks and bushy eyebrows .
`` H 'm !
Smells nice in here , '' was his salutation to Alexina .
`` I hope it will taste as good as it smells .
I 'm hungry . ''
Alexina soon left Uncle James and Stephen talking in the parlour and betook herself anxiously to the kitchen .
She set the table in the little dining room , now and then pausing to listen with a delighted nod to the murmur of voices and laughter in the parlour .
She felt sure that Stephen was making a favourable impression .
She lifted the plum pudding and put it on a plate on the kitchen table ; then she took out the turkey , beautifully done , and put it on a platter ; finally , she popped the two mince pies into the oven .
Just at this moment Stephen stuck his head in at the hall door .
`` Lexy , do you know where that letter of Governor Howland 's to Father is ?
Uncle James wants to see it . ''
Alexina , not waiting to shut the oven door -- for delay might impress Uncle James unfavourably -- rushed upstairs to get the letter .
She was ten minutes finding it .
Then , remembering her pies , she flew back to the kitchen .
In the middle of the floor she stopped as if transfixed , staring at the table .
The turkey was gone .
And the plum pudding was gone !
And the mince pies were gone !
Nothing was left but the platters !
For a moment Alexina refused to believe her eyes .
Then she saw a trail of greasy drops on the floor to the open door , out over the doorstep , and along the boards of the walk to the back fence .
Alexina did not make a fuss .
Even at that horrible moment she remembered the importance of making a favourable impression .
But she could not quite keep the alarm and excitement out of her voice as she called Stephen , and Stephen knew that something had gone wrong as he came quickly through the hall .
`` Is the turkey burned , Lexy ? ''
he cried .
`` Burned !
No , it 's ten times worse , '' gasped Alexina .
`` It 's gone -- gone , Stephen .
And the pudding and the mince pies , too .
Oh , what shall we do ?
Who can have taken them ? ''
It may be stated right here and now that the Falsoms never really knew anything more about the disappearance of their Christmas dinner than they did at that moment .
But the only reasonable explanation of the mystery was that a tramp had entered the kitchen and made off with the good things .
The Falsom house was right at the end of the street .
The narrow backyard opened on a lonely road .
Across the road was a stretch of pine woods .
There was no house very near except the Tracy one .
Stephen reached this conclusion with a bound .
He ran out to the yard gate followed by the distracted Alexina .
The only person visible was a man some distance down the road .
Stephen leaped over the gate and tore down the road in pursuit of him .
Alexina went back to the doorstep , sat down upon it , and began to cry .
She could n't help it .
Her hopes were all in ruins around her .
There was no dinner for Uncle James .
Josephine Tracy saw her crying .
Now , Josie honestly thought that she had a grievance against Alexina .
But an Alexina walking unconcernedly by with a cool little nod and her head held high was a very different person from an Alexina sitting on a back doorstep , on Christmas morning , crying .
For a moment Josie hesitated .
Then she slowly went out and across the yard to the fence .
`` What is the trouble ? ''
she asked .
Alexina forgot that there was such a thing as dignity to be kept up ; or , if she remembered it , she was past caring for such a trifle .
`` Our dinner is gone , '' she sobbed .
`` And there is nothing to give Uncle James to eat except vegetables -- and I do so want to make a favourable impression ! ''
This was not particularly lucid , but Josie , with a flying mental leap , arrived at the conclusion that it was very important that Uncle James , whoever he was , should have a dinner , and she knew where one was to be had .
But before she could speak Stephen returned , looking rueful .
`` No use , Lexy .
That man was only old Mr. Byers , and he had seen no signs of a tramp .
There is a trail of grease right across the road .
The tramp must have taken directly to the woods .
We 'll simply have to do without our Christmas dinner . ''
`` By no means , '' said Josie quickly , with a little red spot on either cheek .
`` Our dinner is all ready -- turkey , pudding and all .
Let us lend it to you .
Do n't say a word to your uncle about the accident . ''
Alexina flushed and hesitated .
`` It 's very kind of you , '' she stammered , `` but I 'm afraid -- it would be too much -- '' `` Not a bit of it , '' Josie interrupted warmly .
`` Did n't Duncan and I have Christmas dinner at your house last year ?
Just come and help us carry it over . ''
`` If you lend us your dinner you and Duncan must come and help us eat it , '' said Alexina , resolutely .
`` I 'll come of course , '' said Josie , `` and I think that Duncan will too if -- if -- '' She looked at Stephen , the scarlet spots deepening .
Stephen coloured too .
`` Duncan must come , '' he said quietly .
`` I 'll go and ask him . ''
Two minutes later a peculiar procession marched out of the Tracy kitchen door , across the two yards , and into the Falsom house .
Josie headed it , carrying a turkey on a platter .
Alexina came next with a plum pudding .
Stephen and Duncan followed with a hot mince pie apiece .
And in a few more minutes Alexina gravely announced to Uncle James that dinner was ready .
The dinner was a pronounced success , marked by much suppressed hilarity among the younger members of the party .
Uncle James ate very heartily and seemed to enjoy everything , especially the mince pie .
`` This is the best mince pie I have ever sampled , '' he told Alexina .
`` I am glad to know that I have a niece who can make such a mince pie . ''
Alexina cast an agonized look at Josie , and was on the point of explaining that she was n't the maker of the pie .
But Josie frowned her into silence .
`` I felt so guilty to sit there and take the credit -- your credit , '' she told Josie afterwards , as they washed up the dishes .
`` Nonsense , '' said Josie .
`` It was n't as if you could n't make mince pies .
Your mince pies are better than mine , if it comes to that .
It might have spoiled everything if you 'd said a word .
I must go home now .
Wo n't you and Stephen come over after your uncle goes , and spend the evening with us ?
We 'll have a candy pull . ''
When Josie and Duncan had gone , Uncle James called his nephew and niece into the parlour , and sat down before them with approving eyes .
`` I want to have a little talk with you two .
I 'm sorry I 've let so many years go by without making your acquaintance , because you seem worth getting acquainted with .
Now , what are your plans for the future ? ''
`` I 'm going into a lumber mill at Lessing and Alexina is going into the T. Morson store , '' said Stephen quietly .
`` Tut , tut , no , you 're not .
And she 's not .
You 're coming to live with me , both of you .
If you have a fancy for cutting and carving people up , young man , you must be trained to cut and carve them scientifically , anyhow .
As for you , Alexina , Stephen tells me you can sing .
Well , there 's a good Conservatory of Music in town .
Would n't you rather go there instead of behind a counter ? ''
`` Oh , Uncle James ! ''
exclaimed Alexina with shining eyes .
She jumped up , put her arms about Uncle James ' neck and kissed him .
Uncle James said , `` Tut , tut , '' again , but he liked it .
When Stephen had seen his uncle off on the six o'clock train he returned home and looked at the radiant Alexina .
`` Well , you made your favourable impression , all right , did n't you ? ''
he said gaily .
`` But we owe it to Josie Tracy .
Is n't she a brick ?
I suppose you 're going over this evening ? ''
`` Yes , I am .
I 'm so tired that I feel as if I could n't crawl across the yard , but if I ca n't you 'll have to carry me .
Go I will .
I ca n't begin to tell you how glad I am about everything , but really the fact that you and Duncan and Josie and I are good friends again seems the best of all .
I 'm glad that tramp stole the dinner and I hope he enjoyed it .
I do n't grudge him one single bite ! ''
The Fraser Scholarship Elliot Campbell came down the main staircase of Marwood College and found himself caught up with a whoop into a crowd of Sophs who were struggling around the bulletin board .
He was thumped on the back and shaken hands with amid a hurricane of shouts and congratulations .
`` Good for you , Campbell !
You 've won the Fraser .
See your little name tacked up there at the top of the list , bracketed off all by itself for the winner ?
` Elliott H. Campbell , ninety-two per cent . '
A class yell for Campbell , boys ! ''
While the yell was being given with a heartiness that might have endangered the roof , Elliott , with flushed face and sparkling eyes , pushed nearer to the important typewritten announcement on the bulletin board .
Yes , he had won the Fraser Scholarship .
His name headed the list of seven competitors .
Roger Brooks , who was at his side , read over the list aloud : '' ` Elliott H. Campbell , ninety-two . '
I said you 'd do it , my boy .
` Edward Stone , ninety-one ' -- old Ned ran you close , did n't he ?
But of course with that name he 'd no show .
` Kay Milton , eighty-eight . '
Who 'd have thought slow-going old Kay would have pulled up so well ?
` Seddon Brown , eighty-seven ; Oliver Field , eighty-four ; Arthur McIntyre , eighty-two ' -- a very respectable little trio .
And ` Carl McLean , seventy . '
Whew !
what a drop !
Just saved his distance .
It was only his name took him in , of course .
He knew you were n't supposed to be strong in mathematics . ''
Before Elliott could say anything , a professor emerged from the president 's private room , bearing the report of a Freshman examination , which he proceeded to post on the Freshman bulletin board , and the rush of the students in that direction left Elliott and Roger free of the crowd .
They seized the opportunity to escape .
Elliott drew a long breath as they crossed the campus in the fresh April sunshine , where the buds were swelling on the fine old chestnuts and elms that surrounded Marwood 's red brick walls .
`` That has lifted a great weight off my mind , '' he said frankly .
`` A good deal depended on my winning the Fraser .
I could n't have come back next year if I had n't got it .
That four hundred will put me through the rest of my course . ''
`` That 's good , '' said Roger Brooks heartily .
He liked Elliott Campbell , and so did all the Sophomores .
Yet none of them was at all intimate with him .
He had no chums , as the other boys had .
He boarded alone , `` dug '' persistently , and took no part in the social life of the college .
Roger Brooks came nearest to being his friend of any , yet even Roger knew very little about him .
Elliott had never before said so much about his personal affairs as in the speech just recorded .
`` I 'm poor -- woefully poor , '' went on Elliott gaily .
His success seemed to have thawed his reserve for the time being .
`` I had just enough money to bring me through the Fresh and Soph years by dint of careful management .
Now I 'm stone broke , and the hope of the Fraser was all that stood between me and the dismal certainty of having to teach next year , dropping out of my class and coming back in two or three years ' time , a complete , rusty stranger again .
Whew !
I made faces over the prospect . ''
`` No wonder , '' commented Roger .
`` The class would have been sorry if you had had to drop out , Campbell .
We want to keep all our stars with us to make a shining coruscation at the finish .
Besides , you know we all like you for yourself .
It would have been an everlasting shame if that little cad of a McLean had won out .
Nobody likes him . ''
`` Oh , I had no fear of him , '' answered Elliott .
`` I do n't see what induced him to go in , anyhow .
He must have known he 'd no chance .
But I was afraid of Stone -- he 's a born dabster at mathematics , you know , and I only hold my own in them by hard digging . ''
`` Why , Stone could n't have taken the Fraser over you in any case , if you made over seventy , '' said Roger with a puzzled look .
`` You must have known that .
McLean was the only competitor you had to fear . ''
`` I do n't understand you , '' said Elliott blankly .
`` You must know the conditions of the Fraser ! ''
exclaimed Roger .
`` Certainly , '' responded Elliott . ''
` The Fraser scholarship , amounting to four hundred dollars , will be offered annually in the Sophomore class .
The competitors will be expected to take a special examination in mathematics , and the winner will be awarded two hundred dollars for two years , payable in four annual instalments , the payment of any instalment to be conditional on the winner 's attending the required classes for undergraduates and making satisfactory progress therein . '
Is n't that correct ? ''
`` So far as it goes , old man .
You forget the most important part of all .
` Preference is to be given to competitors of the name Fraser , Campbell or McLean , provided that such competitor makes at least seventy per cent in his examination . '
You do n't mean to tell me that you did n't know that ! ''
`` Are you joking ? ''
demanded Elliott with a pale face .
`` Not a joke .
Why , man , it 's in the calendar . ''
`` I did n't know it , '' said Elliott slowly .
`` I read the calendar announcement only once , and I certainly did n't notice that condition . ''
`` Well , that 's curious .
But how on earth did you escape hearing it talked about ?
It 's always discussed extensively among the boys , especially when there are two competitors of the favoured names , which does n't often happen . ''
`` I 'm not a very sociable fellow , '' said Elliott with a faint smile .
`` You know they call me ` the hermit . '
As it happened , I never talked the matter over with anyone or heard it referred to .
I -- I wish I had known this before . ''
`` Why , what difference does it make ?
It 's all right , anyway .
But it is odd to think that if your name had n't been Campbell , the Fraser would have gone to McLean over the heads of Stone and all the rest .
Their only hope was that you would both fall below seventy .
It 's an absurd condition , but there it is in old Professor Fraser 's will .
He was rich and had no family .
So he left a number of bequests to the college on ordinary conditions .
I suppose he thought he might humour his whim in one .
His widow is a dear old soul , and always makes a special pet of the boy who wins the Fraser .
Well , here 's my street .
So long , Campbell . ''
Elliott responded almost curtly and walked onward to his boarding-house with a face from which all the light had gone .
When he reached his room he took down the Marwood calendar and whirled over the leaves until he came to the announcement of bursaries and scholarships .
The Fraser announcement , as far as he had read it , ended at the foot of the page .
He turned the leaf and , sure enough , at the top of the next page , in a paragraph by itself , was the condition : `` Preference shall be given to candidates of the name Fraser , Campbell or McLean , provided that said competitor makes at least seventy per cent in his examination . ''
Elliott flung himself into a chair by his table and bowed his head on his hands .
He had no right to the Fraser Scholarship .
His name was not Campbell , although perhaps nobody in the world knew it save himself , and he remembered it only by an effort of memory .
He had been born in a rough mining camp in British Columbia , and when he was a month old his father , John Hanselpakker , had been killed in a mine explosion , leaving his wife and child quite penniless and almost friendless .
One of the miners , an honest , kindly Scotchman named Alexander Campbell , had befriended Mrs. Hanselpakker and her little son in many ways , and two years later she had married him .
They returned to their native province of Nova Scotia and settled in a small country village .
Here Elliott had grown up , bearing the name of the man who was a kind and loving father to him , and whom he loved as a father .
His mother had died when he was ten years old and his stepfather when he was fifteen .
On his deathbed he asked Elliott to retain his name .
`` I 've cared for you and loved you since the time you were born , lad , '' he said .
`` You seem like my own son , and I 've a fancy to leave you my name .
It 's all I can leave you , for I 'm a poor man , but it 's an honest name , lad , and I 've kept it free from stain .
See that you do likewise , and you 'll have your mother 's blessing and mine . ''
Elliott fought a hard battle that spring evening .
`` Hold your tongue and keep the Fraser , '' whispered the tempter .
`` Campbell is your name .
You 've borne it all your life .
And the condition itself is a ridiculous one -- no fairness about it .
You made the highest marks and you ought to be the winner .
It is n't as if you were wronging Stone or any of the others who worked hard and made good marks .
If you throw away what you 've won by your own hard labour , the Fraser goes to McLean , who made only seventy .
Besides , you need the money and he does n't .
His father is a rich man . ''
`` But I 'll be a cheat and a cad if I keep it , '' Elliott muttered miserably .
`` Campbell is n't my legal name , and I 'd never again feel as if I had even the right of love to it if I stained it by a dishonest act .
For it would be stained , even though nobody but myself knew it .
Father said it was a clean name when he left it , and I can not soil it . ''
The tempter was not silenced so easily as that .
Elliott passed a sleepless night of indecision .
But next day he went to Marwood and asked for a private interview with the president .
As a result , an official announcement was posted that afternoon on the bulletin board to the effect that , owing to a misunderstanding , the Fraser Scholarship had been wrongly awarded .
Carl McLean was posted as winner .
The story soon got around the campus , and Elliott found himself rather overwhelmed with sympathy , but he did not feel as if he were very much in need of it after all .
It was good to have done the right thing and be able to look your conscience in the face .
He was young and strong and could work his own way through Marwood in time .
`` No condolences , please , '' he said to Roger Brooks with a smile .
`` I 'm sorry I lost the Fraser , of course , but I 've my hands and brains left .
I 'm going straight to my boarding-house to dig with double vim , for I 've got to take an examination next week for a provincial school certificate .
Next winter I 'll be a flourishing pedagogue in some up-country district . ''
He was not , however .
The next afternoon he received a summons to the president 's office .
The president was there , and with him was a plump , motherly-looking woman of about sixty .
`` Mrs. Fraser , this is Elliott Hanselpakker , or Campbell , as I understand he prefers to be called .
Elliott , I told your story to Mrs. Fraser last evening , and she was greatly interested when she heard your rather peculiar name .
She will tell you why herself . ''
`` I had a young half-sister once , '' said Mrs. Fraser eagerly .
`` She married a man named John Hanselpakker and went West , and somehow I lost all trace of her .
There was , I regret to say , a coolness between us over her marriage .
I disapproved of it because she married a very poor man .
When I heard your name , it struck me that you might be her son , or at least know something about her .
Her name was Mary Helen Rodney , and I loved her very dearly in spite of our foolish quarrel . ''
There was a tremour in Mrs. Fraser 's voice and an answering one in Elliott 's as he replied : `` Mary Helen Rodney was my dear mother 's name , and my father was John Hanselpakker . ''
`` Then you are my nephew , '' exclaimed Mrs. Fraser .
`` I am your Aunt Alice .
My boy , you do n't know how much it means to a lonely old woman to have found you .
I 'm the happiest person in the world ! ''
She slipped her arm through Elliott 's and turned to the sympathetic president with shining eyes .
`` He is my boy forever , if he will be .
Blessings on the Fraser Scholarship ! ''
`` Blessings rather on the manly boy who would n't keep it under false colours , '' said the president with a smile .
`` I think you are fortunate in your nephew , Mrs. Fraser . ''
So Elliott Hanselpakker Campbell came back to Marwood the next year after all .
The Girl at the Gate Something very strange happened the night old Mr. Lawrence died .
I have never been able to explain it and I have never spoken of it except to one person and she said that I dreamed it .
I did not dream it ... I saw and heard , waking .
We had not expected Mr. Lawrence to die then .
He did not seem very ill ... not nearly so ill as he had been during his previous attack .
When we heard of his illness I went over to Woodlands to see him , for I had always been a great favourite with him .
The big house was quiet , the servants going about their work as usual , without any appearance of excitement .
I was told that I could not see Mr. Lawrence for a little while , as the doctor was with him .
Mrs. Yeats , the housekeeper , said the attack was not serious and asked me to wait in the blue parlour , but I preferred to sit down on the steps of the big , arched front door .
It was an evening in June .
Woodlands was very lovely ; to my right was the garden , and before me was a little valley abrim with the sunset .
In places under the big trees it was quite dark even then .
There was something unusually still in the evening ... a stillness as of waiting .
It set me thinking of the last time Mr. Lawrence had been ill ... nearly a year ago in August .
One night during his convalescence I had watched by him to relieve the nurse .
He had been sleepless and talkative , telling me many things about his life .
Finally he told me of Margaret .
I knew a little about her ... that she had been his sweetheart and had died very young .
Mr. Lawrence had remained true to her memory ever since , but I had never heard him speak of her before .
`` She was very beautiful , '' he said dreamily , `` and she was only eighteen when she died , Jeanette .
She had wonderful pale-golden hair and dark-brown eyes .
I have a little ivory miniature of her .
When I die it is to be given to you , Jeanette .
I have waited a long while for her .
You know she promised she would come . ''
I did not understand his meaning and kept silence , thinking that he might be wandering a little in his mind .
`` She promised she would come and she will keep her word , '' he went on .
`` I was with her when she died .
I held her in my arms .
She said to me , ` Herbert , I promise that I will be true to you forever , through as many years of lonely heaven as I must know before you come .
And when your time is at hand I will come to make your deathbed easy as you have made mine .
I will come , Herbert . '
She solemnly promised , Jeanette .
We made a death-tryst of it .
And I know she will come . ''
He had fallen asleep then and after his recovery he had not alluded to the matter again .
I had forgotten it , but I recalled it now as I sat on the steps among the geraniums that June evening .
I liked to think of Margaret ... the lovely girl who had died so long ago , taking her lover 's heart with her to the grave .
She had been a sister of my grandfather , and people told me that I resembled her slightly .
Perhaps that was why old Mr. Lawrence had always made such a pet of me .
Presently the doctor came out and nodded to me cheerily .
I asked him how Mr. Lawrence was .
`` Better ... better , '' he said briskly .
`` He will be all right tomorrow .
The attack was very slight .
Yes , of course you may go in .
Do n't stay longer than half an hour . ''
Mrs. Stewart , Mr. Lawrence 's sister , was in the sickroom when I went in .
She took advantage of my presence to lie down on the sofa a little while , for she had been up all the preceding night .
Mr. Lawrence turned his fine old silver head on the pillow and smiled a greeting .
He was a very handsome old man ; neither age nor illness had marred his finely modelled face or impaired the flash of his keen , steel-blue eyes .
He seemed quite well and talked naturally and easily of many commonplace things .
At the end of the doctor 's half-hour I rose to go .
Mrs. Stewart had fallen asleep and he would not let me wake her , saying he needed nothing and felt like sleeping himself .
I promised to come up again on the morrow and went out .
It was dark in the hall , where no lamp had been lighted , but outside on the lawn the moonlight was bright as day .
It was the clearest , whitest night I ever saw .
I turned aside into the garden , meaning to cross it , and take the short way over the west meadow home .
There was a long walk of rose bushes leading across the garden to a little gate on the further side ... the way Mr. Lawrence had been wont to take long ago when he went over the fields to woo Margaret .
I went along it , enjoying the night .
The bushes were white with roses , and the ground under my feet was all snowed over with their petals .
The air was still and breezeless ; again I felt that sensation of waiting ... of expectancy .
As I came up to the little gate I saw a young girl standing on the other side of it .
She stood in the full moonlight and I saw her distinctly .
She was tall and slight and her head was bare .
I saw that her hair was a pale gold , shining somewhat strangely about her head as if catching the moonbeams .
Her face was very lovely and her eyes large and dark .
She was dressed in something white and softly shimmering , and in her hand she held a white rose ... a very large and perfect one .
Even at the time I found myself wondering where she could have picked it .
It was not a Woodlands rose .
All the Woodlands roses were smaller and less double .
She was a stranger to me , yet I felt that I had seen her or someone very like her before .
Possibly she was one of Mr. Lawrence 's many nieces who might have come up to Woodlands upon hearing of his illness .
As I opened the gate I felt an odd chill of positive fear .
Then she smiled as if I had spoken my thought .
`` Do not be frightened , '' she said .
`` There is no reason you should be frightened .
I have only come to keep a tryst . ''
The words reminded me of something , but I could not recall what it was .
The strange fear that was on me deepened .
I could not speak .
She came through the gateway and stood for a moment at my side .
`` It is strange that you should have seen me , '' she said , `` but now behold how strong and beautiful a thing is faithful love -- strong enough to conquer death .
We who have loved truly love always -- and this makes our heaven . ''
She walked on after she had spoken , down the long rose path .
I watched her until she reached the house and went up the steps .
In truth I thought the girl was someone not quite in her right mind .
When I reached home I did not speak of the matter to anyone , not even to inquire who the girl might possibly be .
There seemed to be something in that strange meeting that demanded my silence .
The next morning word came that old Mr. Lawrence was dead .
When I hurried down to Woodlands I found all in confusion , but Mrs. Yeats took me into the blue parlour and told me what little there was to tell .
`` He must have died soon after you left him , Miss Jeanette , '' she sobbed , `` for Mrs. Stewart wakened at ten o'clock and he was gone .
He lay there , smiling , with such a strange look on his face as if he had just seen something that made him wonderfully happy .
I never saw such a look on a dead face before . ''
`` Who is here besides Mrs. Stewart ? ''
I asked .
`` Nobody , '' said Mrs. Yeats .
`` We have sent word to all his friends but they have not had time to arrive here yet . ''
`` I met a young girl in the garden last night , '' I said slowly .
`` She came into the house .
I did not know her but I thought she must be a relative of Mr. Lawrence 's . ''
Mrs. Yeats shook her head .
`` No .
It must have been somebody from the village , although I did n't know of anyone calling after you went away . ''
I said nothing more to her about it .
After the funeral Mrs. Stewart gave me Margaret 's miniature .
I had never seen it or any picture of Margaret before .
The face was very lovely -- also strangely like my own , although I am not beautiful .
It was the face of the young girl I had met at the gate !
The Light on the Big Dipper `` Do n't let Nellie run out of doors , Mary Margaret , and be careful of the fire , Mary Margaret .
I expect we 'll be back pretty soon after dark , so do n't be lonesome , Mary Margaret . ''
Mary Margaret laughed and switched her long , thick braid of black hair from one shoulder to the other .
`` No fear of my being lonesome , Mother Campbell .
I 'll be just as careful as can be and there are so many things to be done that I 'll be as busy and happy as a bee all day long .
Nellie and I will have just the nicest kind of a time .
I wo n't get lonesome , but if I should feel just tempted to , I 'll think , Father is on his way home .
He will soon be here . '
And that would drive the lonesomeness away before it dared to show its face .
Do n't you worry , Mother Campbell . ''
Mother Campbell smiled .
She knew she could trust Mary Margaret -- careful , steady , prudent little Mary Margaret .
Little !
Ah , that was just the trouble .
Careful and steady and prudent as Mary Margaret might be , she was only twelve years old , after all , and there would not be another soul besides her and Nellie on the Little Dipper that whole day .
Mrs. Campbell felt that she hardly dared to go away under such circumstances .
And yet she must dare it .
Oscar Bryan had sailed over from the mainland the evening before with word that her sister Nan -- her only sister , who lived in Cartonville -- was ill and about to undergo a serious operation .
She must go to see her , and Uncle Martin was waiting with his boat to take her over to the mainland to catch the morning train for Cartonville .
If five-year-old Nellie had been quite well Mrs. Campbell would have taken both her and Mary Margaret and locked up the house .
But Nellie had a very bad cold and was quite unfit to go sailing across the harbour on a raw , chilly November day .
So there was nothing to do but leave Mary Margaret in charge , and Mary Margaret was quite pleased at the prospect .
`` You know , Mother Campbell , I 'm not afraid of anything except tramps .
And no tramps ever come to the Dippers .
You see what an advantage it is to live on an island !
There , Uncle Martin is waving .
Run along , little mother . ''
Mary Margaret watched the boat out of sight from the window and then betook herself to the doing of her tasks , singing blithely all the while .
It was rather nice to be left in sole charge like this -- it made you feel so important and grown-up .
She would do everything very nicely and Mother would see when she came back what a good housekeeper her daughter was .
Mary Margaret and Nellie and Mrs. Campbell had been living on the Little Dipper ever since the preceding April .
Before that they had always lived in their own cosy home at the Harbour Head .
But in April Captain Campbell had sailed in the Two Sisters for a long voyage and , before he went , Mrs. Campbell 's brother , Martin Clowe , had come to them with a proposition .
He ran a lobster cannery on the Little Dipper , and he wanted his sister to go and keep house for him while her husband was away .
After some discussion it was so arranged , and Mrs. Campbell and her two girls moved to the Little Dipper .
It was not a lonesome place then , for the lobstermen and their families lived on it , and boats were constantly sailing to and fro between it and the mainland .
Mary Margaret enjoyed her summer greatly ; she bathed and sailed and roamed over the rocks , and on fine days her Uncle George , who kept the lighthouse on the Big Dipper , and lived there all alone , often came over and took her across to the Big Dipper .
Mary Margaret thought the lighthouse was a wonderful place .
Uncle George taught her how to light the lamps and manage the light .
When the lobster season dosed , the men took up codfishing and carried this on till October , when they all moved back to the mainland .
But Uncle Martin was building a house for himself at Harbour Head and did not wish to move until the ice formed over the bay because it would then be so much easier to transport his goods and chattels ; so the Campbells stayed with him until the Captain should return .
Mary Margaret found plenty to do that day and was n't a bit lonesome .
But when evening came she did n't feel quite so cheerful .
Nellie had fallen asleep , and there was n't another living creature except the cat on the Little Dipper .
Besides , it looked like a storm .
The harbour was glassy calm , but the sky was very black and dour in the northeast -- like snow , thought weather-wise Mary Margaret .
She hoped her mother would get home before it began , and she wished the lighthouse star would gleam out on the Big Dipper .
It would seem like the bright eye of a steady old friend .
Mary Margaret always watched for it every night ; just as soon as the sun went down the big lighthouse star would flash goldenly out in the northeastern sky .
`` I 'll sit down by the window and watch for it , '' said Mary Margaret to herself .
`` Then , when it is lighted , I 'll get up a nice warm supper for Mother and Uncle Martin . ''
Mary Margaret sat down by the kitchen window to watch .
Minute after minute passed , but no light flashed out on the Big Dipper .
What was the matter ?
Mary Margaret began to feel uneasy .
It was too cloudy to tell just when the sun had set , but she was sure it must be down , for it was quite dark in the house .
She lighted a lamp , got the almanac , and hunted out the exact time of sunsetting .
The sun had been down fifteen minutes !
And there was no light on the Big Dipper !
Mary Margaret felt alarmed and anxious .
What was wrong at the Big Dipper ?
Was Uncle George away ?
Or had something happened to him ?
Mary Margaret was sure he had never forgotten !
Fifteen minutes longer did Mary Margaret watch restlessly at the window .
Then she concluded that something was desperately wrong somewhere .
It was half an hour after sunset and the Big Dipper light , the most important one along the whole coast , was not lighted .
What would she do ?
What could she do ?
The answer came swift and dear into Mary Margaret 's steady , sensible little mind .
She must go to the Big Dipper and light the lamps !
But could she ?
Difficulties came crowding thick and fast into her thoughts .
It was going to snow ; the soft broad flakes were falling already .
Could she row the two miles to the Big Dipper in the darkness and the snow ?
If she could , dare she leave Nellie all alone in the house ?
Oh , she could n't !
Somebody at the Harbour Head would surely notice that the Big Dipper light was unlighted and would go over to investigate the cause .
But suppose they should n't ?
If the snow came thicker they might never notice the absence of the light .
And suppose there was a ship away out there , as there nearly always was , with the dangerous rocks and shoals of the outer harbour to pass , with precious lives on board and no guiding beacon on the Big Dipper .
Mary Margaret hesitated no longer .
She must go .
Bravely , briskly and thoughtfully she made her preparations .
First , the fire was banked and the draughts dosed ; then she wrote a little note for her mother and laid it on the table .
Finally she wakened Nellie .
`` Nellie , '' said Mary Margaret , speaking very kindly and determinedly , `` there is no light on the Big Dipper and I 've got to row over and see about it .
I 'll be back as quickly as I can , and Mother and Uncle Martin will soon be here .
You wo n't be afraid to stay alone , will you , dearie ?
You must n't be afraid , because I have to go .
And , Nellie , I 'm going to tie you in your chair ; it 's necessary , because I ca n't lock the door , so you must n't cry ; nothing will hurt you , and I want you to be a brave little girl and help sister all you can . ''
Nellie , too sleepy and dazed to understand very clearly what Mary Margaret was about , submitted to be wrapped up in quilts and bound securely in her chair .
Then Mary Margaret tied the chair fast to the wall so that Nellie could n't upset it .
That 's safe , she thought .
Nellie ca n't run out now or fall on the stove or set herself afire .
Mary Margaret put on her jacket , hood and mittens , and took Uncle Martin 's lantern .
As she went out and closed the door , a little wail from Nellie sounded on her ear .
For a moment she hesitated , then the blackness of the Big Dipper confirmed her resolution .
She must go .
Nellie was really quite safe and comfortable .
It would not hurt her to cry a little , and it might hurt somebody a great deal if the Big Dipper light failed .
Setting her lips firmly , Mary Margaret ran down to the shore .
Like all the Harbour girls , Mary Margaret could row a boat from the time she was nine years old .
Nevertheless , her heart almost failed her as she got into the little dory and rowed out .
The snow was getting thick .
Could she pull across those black two miles between the Dippers before it got so much thicker that she would lose her way ?
Well , she must risk it .
She had set the light in the kitchen window ; she must keep it fair behind her and then she would land on the lighthouse beach .
With a murmured prayer for help and guidance she pulled staunchly away .
It was a long , hard row for the little twelve-year-old arms .
Fortunately there was no wind .
But thicker and thicker came the snow ; finally the kitchen light was hidden in it .
For a moment Mary Margaret 's heart sank in despair ; the next it gave a joyful bound , for , turning , she saw the dark tower of the lighthouse directly behind her .
By the aid of her lantern she rowed to the landing , sprang out and made her boat fast .
A minute later she was in the lighthouse kitchen .
The door leading to the tower stairs was open and at the foot of the stairs lay Uncle George , limp and white .
`` Oh , Uncle George , '' gasped Mary Margaret , `` what is the matter ?
What has happened ? ''
`` Mary Margaret !
Thank God !
I was just praying to Him to send somebody to ` tend the light .
Who 's with you ? ''
`` Nobody ... I got frightened because there was no light and I rowed over .
Mother and Uncle Martin are away . ''
`` You do n't mean to say you rowed yourself over here alone in the dark and snow !
Well , you are the pluckiest little girl about this harbour !
It 's a mercy I 've showed you how to manage the light .
Run up and start it at once .
Do n't mind about me .
I tumbled down those pesky stairs like the awkward old fool I am and I 've broke my leg and hurt my back so bad I ca n't crawl an inch .
I 've been lying here for three mortal hours and they 've seemed like three years .
Hurry with the light , Mary Margaret . ''
Mary Margaret hurried .
Soon the Big Dipper light was once more gleaming cheerfully athwart the stormy harbour .
Then she ran back to her uncle .
There was not much she could do for him beyond covering him warmly with quilts , placing a pillow under his head , and brewing him a hot drink of tea .
`` I left a note for Mother telling her where I 'd gone , Uncle George , so I 'm sure Uncle Martin will come right over as soon as they get home . ''
`` He 'll have to hurry .
It 's blowing up now ... hear it ... and snowing thick .
If your mother and Martin have n't left the Harbour Head before this , they wo n't leave it tonight .
But , anyhow , the light is lit .
I do n't mind my getting smashed up compared to that .
I thought I 'd go crazy lying here picturing to myself a vessel out on the reefs . ''
That night was a very long and anxious one .
The storm grew rapidly worse , and snow and wind howled around the lighthouse .
Uncle George soon grew feverish and delirious , and Mary Margaret , between her anxiety for him and her dismal thoughts of poor Nellie tied in her chair over at the Little Dipper , and the dark possibility of her mother and Uncle Martin being out in the storm , felt almost distracted .
But the morning came at last , as mornings blessedly will , be the nights never so long and anxious , and it dawned fine and clear over a white world .
Mary Margaret ran to the shore and gazed eagerly across at the Little Dipper .
No smoke was visible from Uncle Martin 's house !
She could not leave Uncle George , who was raving wildly , and yet it was necessary to obtain assistance somehow .
Suddenly she remembered the distress signal .
She must hoist it .
How fortunate that Uncle George had once shown her how !
Ten minutes later there was a commotion over at Harbour Head where the signal was promptly observed , and very soon -- although it seemed long enough to Mary Margaret -- a boat came sailing over to the Big Dipper .
When the men landed they were met by a very white-faced little girl who gasped out a rather disjointed story of a light that had n't been lighted and an uncle with a broken leg and a sister tied in her chair , and would they please see to Uncle George at once , for she must go straight over to the other Dipper ?
One of the men rowed her over , but before they were halfway there another boat went sailing across the harbour , and Mary Margaret saw a woman and two men land from it and hurry up to the house .
That is Mother and Uncle Martin , but who can the other man be ?
wondered Mary Margaret .
When she reached the cottage her mother and Uncle Martin were reading her note , and Nellie , just untied from the chair where she had been found fast asleep , was in the arms of a great , big , brown , bewhiskered man .
Mary Margaret just gave one look at the man .
Then she flew across the room with a cry of delight .
`` Father ! ''
For ten minutes not one intelligible word was said , what with laughing and crying and kissing .
Mary Margaret was the first to recover herself and say briskly , `` Now , do explain , somebody .
Tell me how it all happened . ''
`` Martin and I got back to Harbour Head too late last night to cross over , '' said her mother .
`` It would have been madness to try to cross in the storm , although I was nearly wild thinking of you two children .
It 's well I did n't know the whole truth or I 'd have been simply frantic .
We stayed at the Head all night , and first thing this morning came your father . ''
`` We came in last night , '' said Captain Campbell , `` and it was pitch dark , not a light to be seen and beginning to snow .
We did n't know where we were and I was terribly worried , when all at once the Big Dipper light I 'd been looking for so vainly flashed out , and everything was all right in a moment .
But , Mary Margaret , if that light had n't appeared , we 'd never have got in past the reefs .
You 've saved your father 's ship and all the lives in her , my brave little girl . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Mary Margaret drew a long breath and her eyes were starry with tears of happiness .
`` Oh , I 'm so thankful I went over .
And I had to tie Nellie in her chair , Mother , there was no other way .
Uncle George broke his leg and is very sick this morning , and there 's no breakfast ready for anyone and the fire black out ... but that does n't matter when Father is safe ... and oh , I 'm so tired ! ''
And then Mary Margaret sat down just for a moment , intending to get right up and help her mother light the fire , laid her head on her father 's shoulder , and fell sound asleep before she ever suspected it .
The Prodigal Brother Miss Hannah was cutting asters in her garden .
It was a very small garden , for nothing would grow beyond the shelter of the little , grey , low-eaved house which alone kept the northeast winds from blighting everything with salt spray ; but small as it was , it was a miracle of blossoms and a marvel of neatness .
The trim brown paths were swept clean of every leaf or fallen petal , each of the little square beds had its border of big white quahog clamshells , and not even a sweet-pea vine would have dared to straggle from its appointed course under Miss Hannah 's eye .
Miss Hannah had always lived in the little grey house down by the shore , so far away from all the other houses in Prospect and so shut away from them by a circle of hills that it had a seeming isolation .
Not another house could Miss Hannah see from her own doorstone ; she often declared she could not have borne it if it had not been for the lighthouse beacon at night flaming over the northwest hill behind the house like a great unwinking , friendly star that never failed even on the darkest night .
Behind the house a little tongue of the St. Lawrence gulf ran up between the headlands until the wavelets of its tip almost lapped against Miss Hannah 's kitchen doorstep .
Beyond , to the north , was the great crescent of the gulf , whose murmur had been Miss Hannah 's lullaby all her life .
When people wondered to her how she could endure living in such a lonely place , she retorted that the loneliness was what she loved it for , and that the lighthouse star and the far-away call of the gulf had always been company enough for her and always would be ... until Ralph came back .
When Ralph came home , of course , he might like a livelier place and they might move to town or up-country as he wished .
`` Of course , '' said Miss Hannah with a proud smile , `` a rich man might n't fancy living away down here in a little grey house by the shore .
He 'll be for building me a mansion , I expect , and I 'd like it fine .
But until he comes I must be contented with things as they are . ''
People always smiled to each other when Miss Hannah talked like this .
But they took care not to let her see the smile .
Miss Hannah snipped her white and purple asters off ungrudgingly and sang , as she snipped , an old-fashioned song she had learned long ago in her youth .
The day was one of October 's rarest , and Miss Hannah loved fine days .
The air was clear as golden-hued crystal , and all the slopes around her were mellow and hazy in the autumn sunshine .
She knew that beyond those sunny slopes were woods glorying in crimson and gold , and she would have the delight of a walk through them later on when she went to carry the asters to sick Millie Starr at the Bridge .
Flowers were all Miss Hannah had to give , for she was very poor , but she gave them with a great wealth of friendliness and goodwill .
Presently a wagon drove down her lane and pulled up outside of her white garden paling .
Jacob Delancey was in it , with a pretty young niece of his who was a visitor from the city , and Miss Hannah , her sheaf of asters in her arms , went over to the paling with a sparkle of interest in her faded blue eyes .
She had heard a great deal of the beauty of this strange girl .
Prospect people had been talking of nothing else for a week , and Miss Hannah was filled with a harmless curiosity concerning her .
She always liked to look at pretty people , she said ; they did her as much good as her flowers .
`` Good afternoon , Miss Hannah , '' said Jacob Delancey .
`` Busy with your flowers , as usual , I see . ''
`` Oh , yes , '' said Miss Hannah , managing to stare with unobtrusive delight at the girl while she talked .
`` The frost will soon be coming now , you know ; so I want to live among them as much as I can while they 're here . ''
`` That 's right , '' assented Jacob , who made a profession of cordial agreement with everybody and would have said the same words in the same tone had Miss Hannah announced a predilection for living in the cellar .
`` Well , Miss Hannah , it 's flowers I 'm after myself just now .
We 're having a bit of a party at our house tonight , for the young folks , and my wife told me to call and ask you if you could let us have a few for decoration . ''
`` Of course , '' said Miss Hannah , `` you can have these .
I meant them for Millie , but I can cut the west bed for her . ''
She opened the gate and carried the asters over to the buggy .
Miss Delancey took them with a smile that made Miss Hannah remember the date forever .
`` Lovely day , '' commented Jacob genially .
`` Yes , '' said Miss Hannah dreamily .
`` It reminds me of the day Ralph went away twenty years ago .
It does n't seem so long .
Do n't you think he 'll be coming back soon , Jacob ? ''
`` Oh , sure , '' said Jacob , who thought the very opposite .
`` I have a feeling that he 's coming very soon , '' said Miss Hannah brightly .
`` It will be a great day for me , wo n't it , Jacob ?
I 've been poor all my life , but when Ralph comes back everything will be so different .
He will be a rich man and he will give me everything I 've always wanted .
He said he would .
A fine house and a carriage and a silk dress .
Oh , and we will travel and see the world .
You do n't know how I look forward to it all .
I 've got it all planned out , all I 'm going to do and have .
And I believe he will be here very soon .
A man ought to be able to make a fortune in twenty years , do n't you think , Jacob ? ''
`` Oh , sure , '' said Jacob .
But he said it a little uncomfortably .
He did not like the job of throwing cold water , but it seemed to him that he ought not to encourage Miss Hannah 's hopes .
`` Of course , you should n't think too much about it , Miss Hannah .
He might n't ever come back , or he might be poor . ''
`` How can you say such things , Jacob ? ''
interrupted Miss Hannah indignantly , with a little crimson spot flaming out in each of her pale cheeks .
`` You know quite well he will come back .
I 'm as sure of it as that I 'm standing here .
And he will be rich , too .
People are always trying to hint just as you 've done to me , but I do n't mind them .
I know . ''
She turned and went back into her garden with her head held high .
But her sudden anger floated away in a whiff of sweet-pea perfume that struck her in the face ; she waved her hand in farewell to her callers and watched the buggy down the lane with a smile .
`` Of course , Jacob does n't know , and I should n't have snapped him up so quick .
It 'll be my turn to crow when Ralph does come .
My , but is n't that girl pretty .
I feel as if I 'd been looking at some lovely picture .
It just makes a good day of this .
Something pleasant happens to me most every day and that girl is today 's pleasant thing .
I just feel real happy and thankful that there are such beautiful creatures in the world and that we can look at them . ''
`` Well , of all the queer delusions ! ''
Jacob Delancey was ejaculating as he and his niece drove down the lane .
`` What is it all about ? ''
asked Miss Delancey curiously .
`` Well , it 's this way , Dorothy .
Long ago Miss Hannah had a brother who ran away from home .
It was before their father and mother died .
Ralph Walworth was as wild a young scamp as ever was in Prospect and a spendthrift in the bargain .
Nobody but Hannah had any use for him , and she just worshipped him .
I must admit he was real fond of her too , but he and his father could n't get on at all .
So finally he ups and runs away ; it was generally supposed he went to the mining country .
He left a note for Hannah bidding her goodbye and telling her that he was going to make his fortune and would come back to her a rich man .
There 's never been a word heard tell of him since , and in my opinion it 's doubtful if he 's still alive .
But Miss Hannah , as you saw , is sure and certain he 'll come back yet with gold dropping out of his pockets .
She 's as sane as anyone everyway else , but there is no doubt she 's a little cracked on that p ` int .
If he never turns up she 'll go on hoping quite happy to her death .
But if he should turn up and be poor , as is ten times likelier than anything else , I believe it 'd most kill Miss Hannah .
She 's terrible proud for all she 's so sweet , and you saw yourself how mad she got when I kind of hinted he might n't be rich .
If he came back poor , after all her boasting about him , I do n't fancy he 'd get much of a welcome from her .
And she 'd never hold up her head again , that 's certain .
So it 's to be hoped , say I , that Ralph Walworth never will turn up , unless he comes in a carriage and four , which is about as likely , in my opinion , as that he 'll come in a pumpkin drawn by mice . ''
When October had passed and the grey November days came , the glory of Miss Hannah 's garden was over .
She was very lonely without her flowers .
She missed them more this year than ever .
On fine days she paced up and down the walks and looked sadly at the drooping , unsightly stalks and vines .
She was there one afternoon when the northeast wind was up and doing , whipping the gulf waters into whitecaps and whistling up the inlet and around the grey eaves .
Miss Hannah was mournfully patting a frosted chrysanthemum under its golden chin when she saw a man limping slowly down the lane .
`` Now , who can that be ? ''
she murmured .
`` It is n't any Prospect man , for there 's nobody lame around here . ''
She went to the garden gate to meet him .
He came haltingly up the slope and paused before her , gazing at her wistfully .
He looked old and bent and broken , and his clothes were poor and worn .
Who was he ?
Miss Hannah felt that she ought to know him , and her memory went groping back amongst all her recollections .
Yet she could think of nobody but her father , who had died fifteen years before .
`` Do n't ye know me , Hannah ? ''
said the man wistfully .
`` Have I changed so much as all that ? ''
`` Ralph ! ''
It was between a cry and a laugh .
Miss Hannah flew through the gate and caught him in her arms .
`` Ralph , my own dear brother !
Oh , I always knew you 'd come back .
If you knew how I 've looked forward to this day ! ''
She was both laughing and crying now .
Her face shone with a soft gladness .
Ralph Walworth shook his head sadly .
`` It 's a poor wreck of a man I am come back to you , Hannah , '' he said .
`` I 've never accomplished anything and my health 's broken and I 'm a cripple as ye see .
For a time I thought I 'd never show my face back here , such a failure as I be , but the longing to see you got too strong .
It 's naught but a wreck I am , Hannah . ''
`` You 're my own dear brother , '' cried Miss Hannah .
`` Do you think I care how poor you are ?
And if your health is poor I 'm the one to nurse you up , who else than your only sister , I 'd like to know !
Come right in .
You 're shivering in this wind .
I 'll mix you a good hot currant drink .
I knew them black currants did n't bear so plentiful for nothing last summer .
Oh , this is a good day and no mistake ! ''
In twenty-four hours ' time everybody in Prospect knew that Ralph Walworth had come home , crippled and poor .
Jacob Delancey shook his head as he drove away from the station with Ralph 's shabby little trunk standing on end in his buggy .
The station master had asked him to take it down to Miss Hannah 's , and Jacob did not fancy the errand .
He was afraid Miss Hannah would be in a bad way and he did not know what to say to her .
She was in her garden , covering her pansies with seaweed , when he drove up , and she came to the garden gate to meet him , all smiles .
`` So you 've brought Ralph 's trunk , Mr. Delancey .
Now , that was real good of you .
He was going over to the station to see about it himself , but he had such a cold I persuaded him to wait till tomorrow .
He 's lying down asleep now .
He 's just real tired .
He brought this seaweed up from the shore for me this morning and it played him out .
He ai n't strong .
But did n't I tell you he was coming back soon ?
You only laughed at me , but I knew . ''
`` He is n't very rich , though , '' said Jacob jokingly .
He was relieved to find that Miss Hannah did not seem to be worrying over this .
`` That does n't matter , '' cried Miss Hannah .
`` Why , he 's my brother !
Is n't that enough ?
I 'm rich if he is n't , rich in love and happiness .
And I 'm better pleased in a way than if he had come back rich .
He might have wanted to take me away or build a fine house , and I 'm too old to be making changes .
And then he would n't have needed me .
I 'd have been of no use to him .
As it is , it 's just me he needs to look after him and coddle him .
Oh , it 's fine to have somebody to do things for , somebody that belongs to you .
I was just dreading the loneliness of the winter , and now it 's going to be such a happy winter .
I declare last night Ralph and I sat up till morning talking over everything .
He 's had a hard life of it .
Bad luck and illness right along .
And last winter in the lumber woods he got his leg broke .
But now he 's come home and we 're never going to be parted again as long as we live .
I could sing for joy , Jacob . ''
`` Oh , sure , '' assented Jacob cordially .
He felt a little dazed .
Miss Hannah 's nimble change of base was hard for him to follow , and he had an injured sense of having wasted a great deal of commiseration on her when she did n't need it at all .
`` Only I kind of thought , we all thought , you had such plans . ''
`` Well , they served their turn , '' interrupted Miss Hannah briskly .
`` They amused me and kept me interested till something real would come in their place .
If I 'd had to carry them out I dare say they 'd have bothered me a lot .
Things are more comfortable as they are .
I 'm happy as a bird , Jacob . ''
`` Oh , sure , '' said Jacob .
He pondered the business deeply all the way back home , but could make nothing of it .
`` But I ai n't obliged to , '' he concluded sensibly .
`` Miss Hannah 's satisfied and happy and it 's nobody else 's concern .
However , I call it a curious thing . ''
The Redemption of John Churchill John Churchill walked slowly , not as a man walks who is tired , or content to saunter for the pleasure of it , but as one in no haste to reach his destination through dread of it .
The day was well on to late afternoon in mid-spring , and the world was abloom .
Before him and behind him wound a road that ran like a red ribbon through fields of lush clovery green .
The orchards scattered along it were white and fragrant , giving of their incense to a merry south-west wind ; fence-corner nooks were purple with patches of violets or golden-green with the curly heads of young ferns .
The roadside was sprinkled over with the gold dust of dandelions and the pale stars of wild strawberry blossoms .
It seemed a day through which a man should walk lightly and blithely , looking the world and his fellows frankly in the face , and opening his heart to let the springtime in .
But John Churchill walked laggingly , with bent head .
When he met other wayfarers or was passed by them , he did not lift his face , but only glanced up under his eyebrows with a furtive look that was replaced by a sort of shamed relief when they had passed on without recognizing him .
Some of them he knew for friends of the old time .
Ten years had not changed them as he had been changed .
They had spent those ten years in freedom and good repute , under God 's blue sky , in His glad air and sunshine .
He , John Churchill , had spent them behind the walls of a prison .
His close-clipped hair was grey ; his figure , encased in an ill-fitting suit of coarse cloth , was stooped and shrunken ; his face was deeply lined ; yet he was not an old man in years .
He was only forty ; he was thirty when he had been convicted of embezzling the bank funds for purposes of speculation and had been sent to prison , leaving behind a wife and father who were broken-hearted and a sister whose pride had suffered more than her heart .
He had never seen them since , but he knew what had happened in his absence .
His wife had died two months later , leaving behind her a baby boy ; his father had died within the year .
He had killed them ; he , John Churchill , who loved them , had killed them as surely as though his hand had struck them down in cold blood .
His sister had taken the baby , his little son whom he had never seen , but for whom he had prepared such a birthright of dishonour .
She had never forgiven her brother and she never wrote to him .
He knew that she would have brought the boy up either in ignorance of his father 's crime or in utter detestation of it .
When he came back to the world after his imprisonment , there was not a single friendly hand to clasp his and help him struggle up again .
The best his friends had been able to do for him was to forget him .
He was filled with bitterness and despair and a gnawing hatred of the world of brightness around him .
He had no place in it ; he was an ugly blot on it .
He was a friendless , wifeless , homeless man who could not so much as look his fellow men in the face , who must henceforth consort with outcasts .
In his extremity he hated God and man , burning with futile resentment against both .
Only one feeling of tenderness yet remained in his heart ; it centred around the thought of his little son .
When he left the prison he had made up his mind what to do .
He had a little money which his father had left him , enough to take him west .
He would go there , under a new name .
There would be novelty and adventure to blot out the memories of the old years .
He did not care what became of him , since there was no one else to care .
He knew in his heart that his future career would probably lead him still further and further downward , but that did not matter .
If there had been anybody to care , he might have thought it worthwhile to struggle back to respectability and trample his shame under feet that should henceforth walk only in the ways of honour and honesty .
But there was nobody to care .
So he would go to his own place .
But first he must see little Joey , who must be quite a big boy now , nearly ten years old .
He would go home and see him just once , even although he dreaded meeting aversion in the child 's eyes .
Then , when he had bade him good-bye , and , with him , good-bye to all that remained to make for good in his desolated existence , he would go out of his life forever .
`` I 'll go straight to the devil then , '' he said sullenly .
`` That 's where I belong , a jail-bird at whom everybody except other jail-birds looks askance .
To think what I was once , and what I am now !
It 's enough to drive a man mad !
As for repenting , bah !
Who 'd believe that I really repented , who 'd give me a second chance on the faith of it ?
Not a soul .
Repentance wo n't blot out the past .
It wo n't give me back my wife whom I loved above everything on earth and whose heart I broke .
It wo n't restore me my unstained name and my right to a place among honourable men .
There 's no chance for a man who has fallen as low as I have .
If Emily were living , I could struggle for her sake .
But who 'd be fool enough to attempt such a fight with no motive and not one chance of success in a hundred .
Not I. I 'm down and I 'll stay down .
There 's no climbing up again . ''
He celebrated his first day of freedom by getting drunk , although he had never before been an intemperate man .
Then , when the effects of the debauch wore off , he took the train for Alliston ; he would go home and see little Joey once .
Nobody at the station where he alighted recognized him or paid any attention to him .
He was as a dead man who had come back to life to find himself effaced from recollection and his place knowing him no more .
It was three miles from the station to where his sister lived , and he resolved to walk the distance .
Now that the critical moment drew near , he shrank from it and wished to put it off as long as he could .
When he reached his sister 's home he halted on the road and surveyed the place over its snug respectability of iron fence .
His courage failed him at the thought of walking over that trim lawn and knocking at that closed front door .
He would slip around by the back way ; perhaps , who knew , he might come upon Joey without running the gauntlet of his sister 's cold , offended eyes .
If he might only find the boy and talk to him for a little while without betraying his identity , meet his son 's clear gaze without the danger of finding scorn or fear in it -- his heart beat high at the thought .
He walked furtively up the back way between high , screening hedges of spruce .
When he came to the gate of the yard , he paused .
He heard voices just beyond the thick hedge , children 's voices , and he crept as near as he could to the sound and peered through the hedge , with a choking sensation in his throat and a smart in his eyes .
Was that Joey , could that be his little son ?
Yes , it was ; he would have known him anywhere by his likeness to Emily .
Their boy had her curly brown hair , her sensitive mouth , above all , her clear-gazing , truthful grey eyes , eyes in which there was never a shadow of falsehood or faltering .
Joey Churchill was sitting on a stone bench in his aunt 's kitchen yard , holding one of his black-stockinged knees between his small , brown hands .
Jimmy Morris was standing opposite to him , his back braced against the trunk of a big , pink-blossomed apple tree , his hands in his pockets , and a scowl on his freckled face .
Jimmy lived next door to Joey and as a rule they were very good friends , but this afternoon they had quarrelled over the right and proper way to construct an Indian ambush in the fir grove behind the pig-house .
The argument was long and warm and finally culminated in personalities .
Just as John Churchill dropped on one knee behind the hedge , the better to see Joey 's face , Jimmy Morris said scornfully : `` I do n't care what you say .
Nobody believes you .
Your father is in the penitentiary . ''
The taunt struck home as it always did .
It was not the first time that Joey had been twitted with his father by his boyish companions .
But never before by Jimmy !
It always hurt him , and he had never before made any response to it .
His face would flush crimson , his lips would quiver , and his big grey eyes darken miserably with the shadow that was on his life ; he would turn away in silence .
But that Jimmy , his best beloved chum , should say such a thing to him ; oh , it hurt terribly .
There is nothing so merciless as a small boy .
Jimmy saw his advantage and vindictively pursued it .
`` Your father stole money , that 's what he did !
You know he did .
I 'm pretty glad my father is n't a thief .
Your father is .
And when he gets out of prison , he 'll go on stealing again .
My father says he will .
Nobody 'll have anything to do with him , my father says .
His own sister wo n't have anything to do with him .
So there , Joey Churchill ! ''
`` There will somebody have something to do with him ! ''
cried Joey hotly .
He slid off the bench and faced Jimmy proudly and confidently .
The unseen watcher on the other side of the hedge saw his face grow white and intense and set-lipped , as if it had been the face of a man .
The grey eyes were alight with a steady , fearless glow . ''
I 'll have something to do with him .
He is my father and I love him .
I do n't care what he did , I love him just as well as if he was the best man in the world .
I love him better than if he was as good as your father , because he needs it more .
I 've always loved him ever since I found out about him .
I 'd write to him and tell him so , if Aunt Beatrice would tell me where to send the letter .
Aunt Beatrice wo n't ever talk about him or let me talk about him , but I think about him all the time .
And he 's going to be a good man yet , yes , he is , just as good as your father , Jimmy Morris .
I 'm going to make him good .
I made up my mind years ago what I would do and I 'm going to do it , so there , Jimmy . ''
`` I do n't see what you can do , '' muttered Jimmy , already ashamed of what he had said and wishing he had let Joey 's father alone .
`` I 'll tell you what I can do ! ''
Joey was confronting all the world now , with his head thrown back and his face flushed with his earnestness .
`` I can love him and stand by him , and I will .
When he gets out of -- of prison , he 'll come to see me , I know he will .
And I 'm just going to hug him and kiss him and say , ` Never mind , Father .
I know you 're sorry for what you 've done , and you 're never going to do it any more .
You 're going to be a good man and I 'm going to stand by you . '
Yes , sir , that 's just what I 'm going to say to him .
I 'm all the children he has and there 's nobody else to love him , because I know Aunt Beatrice does n't .
And I 'm going with him wherever he goes . ''
`` You ca n't , '' said Jimmy in a scared tone .
`` Your Aunt Beatrice wo n't let you . ''
`` Yes , she will .
She 'll have to .
I belong to my father .
And I think he 'll be coming pretty soon some way .
I 'm pretty sure the time must be ` most up .
I wish he would come .
I want to see him as much as can be , 'cause I know he 'll need me .
And I 'll be proud of him yet , Jimmy Morris , yes , I 'll be just as proud as you are of your father .
When I get bigger , nobody will call my father names , I can tell you .
I 'll fight them if they do , yes , sir , I will .
My father and I are going to stand by each other like bricks .
Aunt Beatrice has lots of children of her own and I do n't believe she 'll be a bit sorry when I go away .
She 's ashamed of my father 'cause he did a bad thing .
But I 'm not , no , sir .
I 'm going to love him so much that I 'll make up to him for everything else .
And you can just go home , Jimmy Morris , so there ! ''
Jimmy Morris went home , and when he had gone , Joey flung himself face downward in the grass and fallen apple blossoms and lay very still .
On the other side of the spruce hedge knelt John Churchill with bowed head .
The tears were running freely down his face , but there was a new , tender light in his eyes .
The bitterness and despair had fallen out of his heart , leaving a great peace and a dawning hope in their place .
Bless that loyal little soul !
There was something to live for after all -- there was a motive to make the struggle worthwhile .
He must justify his son 's faith in him ; he must strive to make himself worthy of this sweet , pure , unselfish love that was offered to him , as a divine draught is offered to the parched lips of a man perishing from thirst .
Aye , and , God helping him , he would .
He would redeem the past .
He would go west , but under his own name .
His little son should go with him ; he would work hard ; he would pay back the money he had embezzled , as much of it as he could , if it took the rest of his life to do so .
For his boy 's sake he must cleanse his name from the dishonour he had brought on it .
Oh , thank God , there was somebody to care , somebody to love him , somebody to believe him when he said humbly , `` I repent . ''
Under his breath he said , looking heavenward : `` God be merciful to me , a sinner . ''
Then he stood up erectly , went through the gate and over the grass to the motionless little figure with its face buried in its arms .
`` Joey boy , '' he said huskily .
`` Joey boy . ''
Joey sprang to his feet with tears still glistening in his eyes .
He saw before him a bent , grey-headed man looking at him lovingly and wistfully .
Joey knew who it was -- the father he had never seen .
With a glad cry of welcome he sprang into the outstretched arms of the man whom his love had already won back to God .
The Schoolmaster 's Letters At sunset the schoolmaster went up to his room to write a letter to her .
He always wrote to her at the same time -- when the red wave of the sunset , flaming over the sea , surged in at the little curtainless window and flowed over the pages he wrote on .
The light was rose-red and imperial and spiritual , like his love for her , and seemed almost to dye the words of the letters in its own splendid hues -- the letters to her which she never was to see , whose words her eyes never were to read , and whose love and golden fancy and rainbow dreams never were to be so much as known by her .
And it was because she never was to see them that he dared to write them , straight out of his full heart , taking the exquisite pleasure of telling her what he never could permit himself to tell her face to face .
Every evening he wrote thus to her , and the hour so spent glorified the entire day .
The rest of the hours -- all the other hours of the commonplace day -- he was merely a poor schoolmaster with a long struggle before him , one who might not lift his eyes to gaze on a star .
But at this hour he was her equal , meeting her soul to soul , telling out as a man might all his great love for her , and wearing the jewel of it on his brow .
What wonder indeed that the precious hour which made him a king , crowned with a mighty and unselfish passion , was above all things sacred to him ?
And doubly sacred when , as tonight , it followed upon an hour spent with her ?
Its mingled delight and pain were almost more than he could bear .
He went through the kitchen and the hall and up the narrow staircase with a glory in his eyes that thus were held from seeing his sordid surroundings .
Link Houseman , sprawled out on the platform before the kitchen door , saw him pass with that rapt face , and chuckled .
Link was ill enough to look at any time , with his sharp , freckled features and foxy eyes .
When he chuckled his face was that of an unholy imp .
But the schoolmaster took no heed of him .
Neither did he heed the girl whom he met in the hall .
Her handsome , sullen face flushed crimson under the sting of his utter disregard , and her black eyes followed him up the stairs with a look that was not good to see .
`` Sis , '' whispered Link piercingly , `` come out here !
I 've got a joke to tell you , something about the master and his girl .
You ai n't to let on to him you know , though .
I found it out last night when he was off to the shore .
That old key of Uncle Jim 's was just the thing .
He 's a softy , and no mistake . ''
* * * * * Upstairs in his little room , the schoolmaster was writing his letter .
The room was as bare and graceless as all the other rooms of the farmhouse where he had boarded during his term of teaching ; but it looked out on the sea , and was hung with such priceless tapestry of his iris dreams and visions that it was to him an apartment in a royal palace .
From it he gazed afar on bays that were like great cups of sapphire brimming over with ruby wine for gods to drain , on headlands that were like amethyst , on wide sweeps of sea that were blue and far and mysterious ; and ever the moan and call of the ocean 's heart came up to his heart as of one great , hopeless love and longing crying out to another love and longing , as great and hopeless .
And here , in the rose-radiance of the sunset , with the sea-music in the dim air , he wrote his letter to her .
My Lady : How beautiful it is to think that there is nothing to prevent my loving you !
There is much -- everything -- to prevent me from telling you that I love you .
But nothing has any right to come between my heart and its own ; it is permitted to love you forever and ever and serve and reverence you in secret and silence .
For so much , dear , I thank life , even though the price of the permission must always be the secret and the silence .
I have just come from you , my lady .
Your voice is still in my ears ; your eyes are still looking into mine , gravely yet half smilingly , sweetly yet half provokingly .
Oh , how dear and human and girlish and queenly you are -- half saint and half very womanly woman !
And how I love you with all there is of me to love -- heart and soul and brain , every fibre of body and spirit thrilling to the wonder and marvel and miracle of it !
You do not know it , my sweet , and you must never know it .
You would not even wish to know it , for I am nothing to you but one of many friends , coming into your life briefly and passing out of it , of no more account to you than a sunshiny hour , a bird 's song , a bursting bud in your garden .
But the hour and the bird and the flower gave you a little delight in their turn , and when you remembered them once before forgetting , that was their reward and blessing .
That is all I ask , dear lady , and I ask that only in my own heart .
I am content to love you and be forgotten .
It is sweeter to love you and be forgotten than it would be to love any other woman and live in her lifelong remembrance : so humble has love made me , sweet , so great is my sense of my own unworthiness .
Yet love must find expression in some fashion , dear , else it is only pain , and hence these letters to you which you will never read .
I put all my heart into them ; they are the best and highest of me , the buds of a love that can never bloom openly in the sunshine of your life .
I weave a chaplet of them , dear , and crown you with it .
They will never fade , for such love is eternal .
It is a whole summer since I first met you .
I had been waiting for you all my life before and did not know it .
But I knew it when you came and brought with you a sense of completion and fulfilment .
This has been the precious year of my life , the turning-point to which all things past tended and all things future must look back .
Oh , my dear , I thank you for this year !
It has been your royal gift to me , and I shall be rich and great forever because of it .
Nothing can ever take it from me , nothing can mar it .
It were well to have lived a lifetime of loneliness for such a boon -- the price would not be too high .
I would not give my one perfect summer for a generation of other men 's happiness .
There are those in the world who would laugh at me , who would pity me , Una .
They would say that the love I have poured out in secret at your feet has been wasted , that I am a poor weak fool to squander all my treasure of affection on a woman who does not care for me and who is as far above me as that great white star that is shining over the sea .
Oh , my dear , they do not know , they can not understand .
The love I have given you has not left me poorer .
It has enriched my life unspeakably ; it has opened my eyes and given me the gift of clear vision for those things that matter ; it has been a lamp held before my stumbling feet whereby I have avoided snares and pitfalls of baser passions and unworthy dreams .
For all this I thank you , dear , and for all this surely the utmost that I can give of love and reverence and service is not too much .
I could not have helped loving you .
But if I could have helped it , knowing with just what measure of pain and joy it would brim my cup , I would have chosen to love you , Una .
There are those who strive to forget a hopeless love .
To me , the greatest misfortune that life could bring would be that I should forget you .
I want to remember you always and love you and long for you .
That would be unspeakably better than any happiness that could come to me through forgetting .
Dear lady , good night .
The sun has set ; there is now but one fiery dimple on the horizon , as if a golden finger had dented it -- now it is gone ; the mists are coming up over the sea .
A kiss on each of your white hands , dear .
Tonight I am too humble to lift my thoughts to your lips .
The schoolmaster folded up his letter and held it against his cheek for a little space while he gazed out on the silver-shining sea with his dark eyes full of dreams .
Then he took from his shabby trunk a little inlaid box and unlocked it with a twisted silver key .
It was full of letters -- his letters to Una .
The first had been written months ago , in the early promise of a northern spring .
They linked together the golden weeks of the summer .
Now , in the purple autumn , the box was full , and the schoolmaster 's term was nearly ended .
He took out the letters reverently and looked over them , now and then murmuring below his breath some passages scattered through the written pages .
He had laid bare his heart in those letters , writing out what he never could have told her , even if his love had been known and returned , for dead and gone generations of stern and repressed forefathers laid their unyielding fingers of reserve on his lips , and the shyness of dreamy , book-bred youth stemmed the language of eye and tone .
I will love you forever and ever .
And even though you know it not , surely such love will hover around you all your life .
Like an invisible benediction , not understood but dimly felt , guarding you from ill and keeping far from you all things and thoughts of harm and evil !
* * * * * Sometimes I let myself dream .
And in those dreams you love me , and we go out to meet life together .
I have dreamed that you kissed me -- dreamed it so reverently that the dream did your womanhood no wrong .
I have dreamed that you put your hands in mine and said , `` I love you . ''
Oh , the rapture of it !
* * * * * We may give all we will if we do not ask for a return .
There should be no barter in love .
If , by reason of the greatness of my love for you , I were to ask your love in return , I should be a base creature .
It is only because I am content to love and serve for the sake of loving and serving that I have the right to love you .
* * * * * I have a memory of a blush of yours -- a rose of the years that will bloom forever in my garden of remembrance .
Tonight you blushed when I came upon you suddenly among the flowers .
You were startled -- perhaps I had broken too rudely on some girlish musing ; and straightway your round , pale curve of cheek and your white arch of brow were made rosy as with the dawn of beautiful sunrise .
I shall see you forever as you looked at that time .
In my mad moments I shall dream , knowing all the while that it is only a dream , that you blushed with delight at my coming .
I shall be able to picture forevermore how you would look at one you loved .
* * * * * Tonight the moon was low in the west .
It hung over the sea like a shallop of ruddy gold moored to a star in the harbour of the night .
I lingered long and watched it , for I knew that you , too , were watching it from your window that looks on the sea .
You told me once that you always watched the moon set .
It has been a bond between us ever since .
* * * * * This morning I rose at dawn and walked on the shore to think of you , because it seemed the most fitting time .
It was before sunrise , and the world was virgin .
All the east was a shimmer of silver and the morning star floated in it like a dissolving pearl .
The sea was a great miracle .
I walked up and down by it and said your name over and over again .
The hour was sacred to you .
It was as pure and unspoiled as your own soul .
Una , who will bring into your life the sunrise splendour and colour of love ?
* * * * * Do you know how beautiful you are , Una ?
Let me tell you , dear .
You are tall , yet you have to lift your eyes a little to meet mine .
Such dear eyes , Una !
They are dark blue , and when you smile they are like wet violets in sunshine .
But when you are pensive they are more lovely still -- the spirit and enchantment of the sea at twilight passes into them then .
Your hair has the gloss and brownness of ripe nuts , and your face is always pale .
Your lips have a trick of falling apart in a half-smile when you listen .
They told me before I knew you that you were pretty .
Pretty !
The word is cheap and tawdry .
You are beautiful , with the beauty of a pearl or a star or a white flower .
* * * * * Do you remember our first meeting ?
It was one evening last spring .
You were in your garden .
The snow had not all gone , but your hands were full of pale , early flowers .
You wore a white shawl over your shoulders and head .
Your face was turned upward a little , listening to a robin 's call in the leafless trees above you .
I thought God had never made anything so lovely and love-deserving .
I loved you from that moment , Una .
* * * * * This is your birthday .
The world has been glad of you for twenty years .
It is fitting that there have been bird songs and sunshine and blossom today , a great light and fragrance over land and sea .
This morning I went far afield to a long , lonely valley lying to the west , girt round about with dim old pines , where feet of men seldom tread , and there I searched until I found some rare flowers meet to offer you .
I sent them to you with a little book , an old book .
A new book , savouring of the shop and marketplace , however beautiful it might be , would not do for you .
So I sent the book that was my mother 's .
She read it and loved it -- the faded rose-leaves she placed in it are there still .
At first , dear , I almost feared to send it .
Would you miss its meaning ?
Would you laugh a little at the shabby volume with its pencil marks and its rose-leaves ?
But I knew you would not ; I knew you would understand .
* * * * * Today I saw you with the child of your sister in your arms .
I felt as the old painters must have felt when they painted their Madonnas .
You bent over his shining golden head , and on your face was the mother passion and tenderness that is God 's finishing touch to the beauty of womanhood .
The next moment you were laughing with him -- two children playing together .
But I had looked upon you in that brief space .
Oh , the pain and joy of it !
* * * * * It is so sweet , dear , to serve you a little , though it be only in opening a door for you to pass through , or handing you a book or a sheet of music !
Love wishes to do so much for the beloved !
I can do so little for you , but that little is sweet .
* * * * * This evening I read to you the poem which you had asked me to read .
You sat before me with your brown head leaning on your hands and your eyes cast down .
I stole dear glances at you between the lines .
When I finished I put a red , red rose from your garden between the pages and crushed the book close on it .
That poem will always be dear to me , stained with the life-blood of a rose-like hour .
* * * * * I do not know which is the sweeter , your laughter or your sadness .
When you laugh you make me glad , but when you are sad I want to share in your sadness and soothe it .
I think I am nearer to you in your sorrowful moods .
* * * * * Today I met you by accident at the turn of the lane .
Nothing told me that you were coming -- not even the wind , that should have known .
I was sad , and then all at once I saw you , and wondered how I could have been sad .
You walked past me with a smile , as if you had tossed me a rose .
I stood and watched you out of sight .
That meeting was the purple gift the day gave me .
* * * * * Today I tried to write a poem to you , Una , but I could not find words fine enough , as a lover could find no raiment dainty enough for his bride .
The old words other men have used in singing to their loves seemed too worn and common for you .
I wanted only new words , crystal clear or coloured only by the iris of the light , not words that have been steeped and stained with all the hues of other men 's thoughts .
So I burned the verses that were so unworthy of you .
* * * * * Una , some day you will love .
You will watch for him ; you will blush at his coming , be sad at his going .
Oh , I can not think of it !
* * * * * Today I saw you when you did not see me .
I was walking on the shore , and as I came around a rock you were sitting on the other side .
I drew back a little and looked at you .
Your hands were clasped over your knees ; your hat had fallen back , and the sea wind was ruffling your hair .
Your face was lifted to the sky , your lips were parted , your eyes were full of light .
You seemed to be listening to something that made you happy .
I crept gently away , that I might not mar your dream .
Of what were you thinking , Una ?
* * * * * I must leave you soon .
Sometimes I think I can not bear it .
Oh , Una , how selfish it is of me to wish that you might love me !
Yet I do wish it , although I have nothing to offer you but a great love and all my willing work of hand and brain .
If you loved me , I fear I should be weak enough to do you the wrong of wooing you .
I want you so much , dear !
The schoolmaster added the last letter to the others and locked the box .
When he unlocked it again , two days later , the letters were gone .
He gazed at the empty box with dilated eyes .
At first he could not realize what had happened .
The letters could not be gone !
He must have made a mistake , have put them in some other place !
With trembling fingers he ransacked his trunk .
There was no trace of the letters .
With a groan he dropped his face in his hands and tried to think .
His letters were gone -- those precious letters , held almost too sacred for his own eyes to read after they were written -- had been stolen from him !
The inmost secrets of his soul had been betrayed .
Who had done this hideous thing ?
He rose and went downstairs .
In the farmyard he found Link tormenting his dog .
Link was happy only when he was tormenting something .
He never had been afraid of anything in his life before , but now absolute terror took possession of him at sight of the schoolmaster 's face .
Physical strength and force had no power to frighten the sullen lad , but all the irresistible might of a fine soul roused to frenzy looked out in the young man 's blazing eyes , dilated nostrils , and tense white mouth .
It cowed the boy , because it was something he could not understand .
He only realized that he was in the presence of a force that was not to be trifled with .
`` Link , where are my letters ? ''
said the schoolmaster .
`` I did n't take 'em , Master ! ''
cried Link , crumpling up visibly in his sheer terror .
`` I did n't .
I never teched 'em !
It was Sis .
I told her not to -- I told her you 'd be awful mad , but she would n't tend to me .
It was Sis took 'em .
Ask her , if you do n't believe me . ''
The schoolmaster believed him .
Nothing was too horrible to believe just then .
`` What has she done with them ? ''
he said hoarsely .
`` She -- she sent 'em to Una Clifford , '' whimpered Link .
`` I told her not to .
She 's mad at you , cause you went to see Una and would n't go with her .
She thought Una would be mad at you for writing 'em , cause the Cliffords are so proud and think themselves above everybody else .
So she sent 'em .
I -- I told her not to . ''
The schoolmaster said not another word .
He turned his back on the whining boy and went to his room .
He felt sick with shame .
The indecency of the whole thing revolted him .
It was as if his naked heart had been torn from his breast and held up to the jeers of a vulgar world by the merciless hand of a scorned and jealous woman .
He felt stunned as if by a physical blow .
After a time his fierce anger and shame died into a calm desperation .
The deed was done beyond recall .
It only remained for him to go to Una , tell her the truth , and implore her pardon .
Then he must go from her sight and presence forever .
* * * * * It was dusk when he went to her home .
They told him that she was in the garden , and he found her there , standing at the curve of the box walk , among the last late-blooming flowers of the summer .
Have you thought from his letters that she was a wonderful woman of marvellous beauty ?
Not so .
She was a sweet and slender slip of girlhood , with girlhood 's own charm and freshness .
There were thousands like her in the world -- thank God for it !
-- but only one like her in one man 's eyes .
He stood before her mute with shame , his boyish face white and haggard .
She had blushed crimson all over her dainty paleness at sight of him , and laid her hand quickly on the breast of her white gown .
Her eyes were downcast and her breath came shortly .
He thought her silence the silence of anger and scorn .
He wished that he might fling himself in the dust at her feet .
`` Una -- Miss Clifford -- forgive me ! ''
he stammered miserably .
`` I -- I did not send them .
I never meant that you should see them .
A shameful trick has been played upon me .
Forgive me ! ''
`` For what am I to forgive you ? ''
she asked gravely .
She did not look up , but her lips parted in the little half-smile he loved .
The blush was still on her face .
`` For my presumption , '' he whispered .
`` I -- I could not help loving you , Una .
If you have read the letters you know all the rest . ''
`` I have read the letters , every word , '' she answered , pressing her hand a little more closely to her breast .
`` Perhaps I should not have done so , for I soon discovered that they were not meant for me to read .
I thought at first you had sent them , although the writing of the address on the packet did not look like yours ; but even when I knew you did not I could not help reading them all .
I do not know who sent them , but I am very grateful to the sender . ''
`` Grateful ? ''
he said wonderingly .
`` Yes .
I have something to forgive you , but not -- not your presumption .
It is your blindness , I think -- and -- and your cruel resolution to go away and never tell me of your -- your love for me .
If it had not been for the sending of these letters I might never have known .
How can I forgive you for that ? ''
`` Una ! ''
he said .
He had been very blind , but he was beginning to see .
He took a step nearer and took her hands .
She threw up her head and gazed , blushingly , steadfastly , into his eyes .
From the folds of her gown she drew forth the little packet of letters and kissed it .
`` Your dear letters ! ''
she said bravely .
`` They have given me the right to speak out .
I will speak out !
I love you , dear !
I will be content to wait through long years until you can claim me .
I -- I have been so happy since your letters came ! ''
He put his arms around her and drew her head close to his .
Their lips met .
The Story of Uncle Dick I had two schools offered me that summer , one at Rocky Valley and one at Bayside .
At first I inclined to Rocky Valley ; it possessed a railway station and was nearer the centres of business and educational activity .
But eventually I chose Bayside , thinking that its country quietude would be a good thing for a student who was making school-teaching the stepping-stone to a college course .
I had reason to be glad of my choice , for in Bayside I met Uncle Dick .
Ever since it has seemed to me that not to have known Uncle Dick would have been to miss a great sweetness and inspiration from my life .
He was one of those rare souls whose friendship is at once a pleasure and a benediction , showering light from their own crystal clearness into all the dark corners in the souls of others until , for the time being at least , they reflected his own simplicity and purity .
Uncle Dick could no more help bringing delight into the lives of his associates than could the sunshine or the west wind or any other of the best boons of nature .
I had been in Bayside three weeks before I met him , although his farm adjoined the one where I boarded and I passed at a little distance from his house every day in my short cut across the fields to school .
I even passed his garden unsuspectingly for a week , never dreaming that behind that rank of leafy , rustling poplars lay a veritable `` God 's acre '' of loveliness and fragrance .
But one day as I went by , a whiff of something sweeter than the odours of Araby brushed my face and , following the wind that had blown it through the poplars , I went up to the white paling and found there a trellis of honeysuckle , and beyond it Uncle Dick 's garden .
Thereafter I daily passed close by the fence that I might have the privilege of looking over it .
It would be hard to define the charm of that garden .
It did not consist in order or system , for there was no trace of either , except , perhaps , in that prim row of poplars growing about the whole domain and shutting it away from all idle and curious eyes .
For the rest , I think the real charm must have been in its unexpectedness .
At every turn and in every nook you stumbled on some miracle of which you had never dreamed .
Or perhaps the charm was simply that the whole garden was an expression of Uncle Dick 's personality .
In one corner a little green dory , filled with earth , overflowed in a wave of gay annuals .
In the centre of the garden an old birch-bark canoe seemed sailing through a sea of blossoms , with a many-coloured freight of geraniums .
Paths twisted and turned among flowering shrubs , and clumps of old-fashioned perennials were mingled with the latest fads of the floral catalogues .
The mid-garden was a pool of sunshine , with finely sifted winds purring over it , but under the poplars there were shadows and growing things that loved the shadows , crowding about the old stone benches at each side .
Somehow , my daily glimpse of Uncle Dick 's garden soon came to symbolize for me a meaning easier to translate into life and soul than into words .
It was a power for good within me , making its influence felt in many ways .
Finally I caught Uncle Dick in his garden .
On my way home one evening I found him on his knees among the rosebushes , and as soon as he saw me he sprang up and came forward with outstretched hand .
He was a tall man of about fifty , with grizzled hair , but not a thread of silver yet showed itself in the ripples of his long brown beard .
Later I discovered that his splendid beard was Uncle Dick 's only vanity .
So fine and silky was it that it did not hide the candid , sensitive curves of his mouth , around which a mellow smile , tinged with kindly , quizzical humour , always lingered .
His face was tanned even more deeply than is usual among farmers , for he had an inveterate habit of going about hatless in the most merciless sunshine ; but the line of forehead under his hair was white as milk , and his eyes were darkly blue and as tender as a woman 's .
`` How do you do , Master ? ''
he said heartily .
-LRB- The Bayside pedagogue was invariably addressed as `` Master '' by young and old . -RRB-
`` I 'm glad to see you .
Here I am , trying to save my rosebushes .
There are green bugs on 'em , Master -- green bugs , and they 're worrying the life out of me . ''
I smiled , for Uncle Dick looked very unlike a worrying man , even over such a serious accident as green bugs .
`` Your roses do n't seem to mind , Mr. Oliver , '' I said .
`` They are the finest I have ever seen . ''
The compliment to his roses , well-deserved as it was , did not at first engage his attention .
He pretended to frown at me .
`` Do n't get into any bad habit of mistering me , Master , '' he said .
`` You 'd better begin by calling me Uncle Dick from the start and then you wo n't have the trouble of changing .
Because it would come to that -- it always does .
But come in , come in !
There 's a gate round here .
I want to get acquainted with you .
I have a taste for schoolmasters .
I did n't possess it when I was a boy '' -LRB- a glint of fun appeared in his blue eyes -RRB- .
`` It 's an acquired taste . ''
I accepted his invitation and went , not only into his garden but , as was proved later , into his confidence and affection .
He linked his arm with mine and piloted me about to show me his pets .
`` I potter about this garden considerable , '' he said .
`` It pleases the women folks to have lots of posies . ''
I laughed , for Uncle Dick was a bachelor and considered to be a hopeless one .
`` Do n't laugh , Master , '' he said , pressing my arm .
`` I 've no woman folk of my own about me now , 't is true .
But all the girls in the district come to Uncle Dick when they want flowers for their little diversions .
Besides -- perhaps -- sometimes -- '' Uncle Dick broke off and stood in a brown study , looking at an old stump aflame with nasturtiums for fully three minutes .
Later on I was to learn the significance of that pause and reverie .
I spent the whole evening with Uncle Dick .
After we had explored the garden he took me into his house and into his `` den . ''
The house was a small white one and wonderfully neat inside , considering the fact that Uncle Dick was his own housekeeper .
His `` den '' was a comfortable place , its one window so shadowed by a huge poplar that the room had a grotto-like effect of emerald gloom .
I came to know it well , for , at Uncle Dick 's invitation , I did my studying there and browsed at will among his classics .
We soon became close friends .
Uncle Dick had always `` chummed with the masters , '' as he said , but our friendship went deeper .
For my own part , I preferred his company to that of any young man I knew .
There was a perennial spring of youth in Uncle Dick 's soul that yet had all the fascinating flavour of ripe experience .
He was clever , kindly , humorous and , withal , so crystal clear of mind and heart that an atmosphere partaking of childhood hung around him .
I knew Uncle Dick 's outward history as the Bayside people knew it .
It was not a very eventful one .
He had lost his father in boyhood ; before that there had been some idea of Dick 's going to college .
After his father 's death he seemed quietly to have put all such hopes away and settled down to look after the farm and take care of his invalid stepmother .
This woman , as I learned from others , but never from Uncle Dick , had been a peevish , fretful , exacting creature , and for nearly thirty years Uncle Dick had been a very slave to her whims and caprices .
`` Nobody knows what he had to put up with , for he never complained , '' Mrs. Lindsay , my landlady , told me .
`` She was out of her mind once and she was liable to go out of it again if she was crossed in anything .
He was that good and patient with her .
She was dreadful fond of him too , for all she did almost worry his life out .
No doubt she was the reason he never married .
He could n't leave her and he knew no woman would go in there .
Uncle Dick never courted anyone , unless it was Rose Lawrence .
She was a cousin of my man 's .
I 've heard he had a kindness for her ; it was years ago , before I came to Bayside .
But anyway , nothing came of it .
Her father 's health failed and he had to go out to California .
Rose had to go with him , her mother being dead , and that was the end of Uncle Dick 's love affair . ''
But that was not the end of it , as I discovered when Uncle Dick gave me his confidence .
One evening I went over and , piloted by the sound of shrieks and laughter , found Uncle Dick careering about the garden , pursued by half a dozen schoolgirls who were pelting him with overblown roses .
At sight of the master my pupils instantly became prim and demure and , gathering up their flowery spoil , they beat a hasty retreat down the lane .
`` Those little girls are very sweet , '' said Uncle Dick abruptly .
`` Little blossoms of life !
Have you ever wondered , Master , why I have n't some of my own blooming about the old place instead of just looking over the fence of other men 's gardens , coveting their human roses ? ''
`` Yes , I have , '' I answered frankly .
`` It has been a puzzle to me why you , Uncle Dick , who seem to me fitted above all men I have ever known for love and husbandhood and fatherhood , should have elected to live your life alone . ''
`` It has not been a matter of choice , '' said Uncle Dick gently .
`` We ca n't always order our lives as we would , Master .
I loved a woman once and she loved me .
And we love each other still .
Do you think I could bear life else ?
I 've an interest in it that the Bayside folk know nothing of .
It has kept youth in my heart and joy in my soul through long , lonely years .
And it 's not ended yet , Master -- it 's not ended yet !
Some day I hope to bring a wife here to my old house -- my wife , my rose of joy ! ''
He was silent for a space , gazing at the stars .
I too kept silence , fearing to intrude into the holy places of his thought , although I was tingling with interest in this unsuspected outflowering of romance in Uncle Dick 's life .
After a time he said gently , `` Shall I tell you about it , Master ?
I mean , do you care to know ? ''
`` Yes , '' I answered , `` I do care to know .
And I shall respect your confidence , Uncle Dick . ''
`` I know that .
I could n't tell you , otherwise , '' he said .
`` I do n't want the Bayside folk to know -- it would be a kind of desecration .
They would laugh and joke me about it , as they tease other people , and I could n't bear that .
Nobody in Bayside knows or suspects , unless it 's old Joe Hammond at the post office .
And he has kept my secret , or what he knows of it , well .
But somehow I feel that I 'd like to tell you , Master .
`` Twenty-five years ago I loved Rose Lawrence .
The Lawrences lived where you are boarding now .
There was just the father , a sickly man , and Rose , my `` Rose of joy , '' as I called her , for I knew my Emerson pretty well even then .
She was sweet and fair , like a white rose with just a hint of pink in its cup .
We loved each other , but we could n't marry then .
My mother was an invalid , and one time , before I had learned to care for Rose , she , the mother , had asked me to promise her that I 'd never marry as long as she lived .
She did n't think then that she would live long , but she lived for twenty years , Master , and she held me to my promise all the time .
Yes , it was hard '' -- for I had given an indignant exclamation -- `` but you see , Master , I had promised and I had to keep my word .
Rose said I was right in doing it .
She said she was willing to wait for me , but she did n't know , poor girl , how long the waiting was to be .
Then her father 's health failed completely , and the doctor ordered him to another climate .
They went to California .
That was a hard parting , Master .
But we promised each other that we would be true , and we have been .
I 've never seen my Rose of joy since then , but I 've had a letter from her every week .
When the mother died , five years ago , I wanted to move to California and marry Rose .
But she wrote that her father was so poorly she could n't marry me yet .
She has to wait on him every minute , and he 's restless , and they move here and there -- a hard life for my poor girl .
So I had to take a new lease of patience , Master .
One learns how to wait in twenty years .
But I shall have her some day , God willing .
Our love will be crowned yet .
So I wait , Master , and try to keep my life and soul clean and wholesome and young for her .
`` That 's my story , Master , and we 'll not say anything more about it just now , for I dare say you do n't exactly know what to say .
But at times I 'll talk of her to you and that will be a rare pleasure to me ; I think that was why I wanted you to know about her . ''
He did talk often to me of her , and I soon came to realize what this far-away woman meant in his life .
She was for him the centre of everything .
His love was strong , pure , and idyllic -- the ideal love of which the loftiest poets sing .
It glorified his whole inner life with a strange , unfailing radiance .
I found that everything he did was done with an eye single to what she would think of it when she came .
Especially did he put his love into his garden .
`` Every flower in it stands for a thought of her , Master , '' he said .
`` It is a great joy to think that she will walk in this garden with me some day .
It will be complete then -- my Rose of joy will be here to crown it . ''
That summer and winter passed away , and when spring came again , lettering her footsteps with violets in the meadows and waking all the sleeping loveliness of old homestead gardens , Uncle Dick 's long deferred happiness came with her .
One evening when I was in our `` den , '' mid-deep in study of old things that seemed musty and unattractive enough in contrast with the vivid , newborn , out-of-doors , Uncle Dick came home from the post office with an open letter in his hand .
His big voice trembled as he said , `` Master , she 's coming home .
Her father is dead and she has nobody in the world now but me .
In a month she will be here .
Do n't talk to me of it yet -- I want to taste the joy of it in silence for a while . ''
He hastened away to his garden and walked there until darkness fell , with his face uplifted to the sky , and the love rapture of countless generations shining in his eyes .
Later on , we sat on one of the old stone benches and Uncle Dick tried to talk practically .
Bayside people soon found out that Rose Lawrence was coming home to marry Uncle Dick .
Uncle Dick was much teased , and suffered under it ; it seemed , as he had said , desecration .
But the real goodwill and kindly feeling in the banter redeemed it .
He went to the station to meet Rose Lawrence the day she came .
When I went home from school Mrs. Lindsay told me she was in the parlour and took me in to be introduced .
I was bitterly disappointed .
Somehow , I had expected to meet , not indeed a young girl palpitating with youthful bloom , but a woman of ripe maturity , dowered with the beauty of harmonious middle-age -- the feminine counterpart of Uncle Dick .
Instead , I found in Rose Lawrence a small , faded woman of forty-five , gowned in shabby black .
She had evidently been very pretty once , but bloom and grace were gone .
Her face had a sweet and gentle expression , but was tired and worn , and her fair hair was plentifully streaked with grey .
Alas , I thought compassionately , for Uncle Dick 's dreams !
What a shock the change to her must have given him !
Could this be the woman on whom he had lavished such a life-wealth of love and reverence ?
I tried to talk to her , but I found her shy and timid .
She seemed to me uninteresting and commonplace .
And this was Uncle Dick 's Rose of joy !
I was so sorry for Uncle Dick that I shrank from meeting him .
Nevertheless , I went over after tea , fearing that he might misunderstand , nay , rather , understand , my absence .
He was in the garden , and he came down the path where the buds were just showing .
There was a smile on his face and the glory in his eyes was quite undimmed .
`` Master , she 's come .
And she 's not a bit changed .
I feared she would be , but she is just the same -- my sweet little Rose of joy ! ''
I looked at Uncle Dick in some amazement .
He was thoroughly sincere , there was no doubt of that , and I felt a great throb of relief .
He had found no disillusioning change .
I saw Rose Lawrence merely with the cold eyes of the stranger .
He saw her through the transfiguring medium of a love that made her truly his Rose of joy .
And all was well .
They were married the next morning and walked together over the clover meadow to their home .
In the evening I went over , as I had promised Uncle Dick to do .
They were in the garden , with a great saffron sky over them and a glory of sunset behind the poplars .
I paused unseen at the gate .
Uncle Dick was big and splendid in his fine new wedding suit , and his faded little bride was hanging on his arm .
Her face was upturned to him ; it was a glorified face , so transformed by the tender radiance of love shining through it that I saw her then as Uncle Dick must always see her , and no longer found it hard to understand how she could be his Rose of joy .
Happiness clothed them as a garment ; they were crowned king and queen in the bridal realm of the springtime .
The Understanding of Sister Sara June First .
I began this journal last New Year 's -- wrote two entries in it and then forgot all about it .
I came across it today in a rummage -- Sara insists on my cleaning things out thoroughly every once in so long -- and I 'm going to keep it up .
I feel the need of a confidant of some kind , even if it is only an inanimate journal .
I have no other .
And I can not talk my thoughts over with Sara -- she is so unsympathetic .
Sara is a dear good soul and I love her as much as she will let me .
I am also very grateful to her .
She brought me up when our mother died .
No doubt she had a hard time of it , poor dear , for I never was easily brought up , perversely preferring to come up in my own way .
But Sara did her duty unflinchingly and -- well , it 's not for me to say that the result does her credit .
But it really does , considering the material she had to work with .
I 'm a bundle of faults as it is , but I tremble to think what I would have been if there had been no Sara .
Yes , I love Sara , and I 'm grateful to her .
But she does n't understand me in the least .
Perhaps it is because she is so much older than I am , but it does n't seem to me that Sara could really ever have been young .
She laughs at things I consider the most sacred and calls me a romantic girl , in a tone of humorous toleration .
I am chilled and thrown back on myself , and the dreams and confidences I am bubbling over with have no outlet .
Sara could n't understand -- she is so practical .
When I go to her with some beautiful thought I have found in a book or poem she is quite likely to say , `` Yes , yes , but I noticed this morning that the braid was loose on your skirt , Beatrice .
Better go and sew it on before you forget again . '
A stitch in time saves nine . ' ''
When I come home from a concert or lecture , yearning to talk over the divine music or the wonderful new ideas with her , she will say , `` Yes , yes , but are you sure you did n't get your feet damp ?
Better go and change your stockings , my dear .
` An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure . ' ''
So I have given up trying to talk things over with Sara .
This old journal will be better .
Last night Sara and I went to Mrs. Trent 's musicale .
I had to sing and I had the loveliest new gown for the occasion .
At first Sara thought my old blue dress would do .
She said we must economize this summer and told me I was entirely too extravagant in the matter of clothes .
I cried about it after I went to bed .
Sara looked at me very sharply the next morning without saying anything .
In the afternoon she went uptown and bought some lovely pale yellow silk organdie .
She made it up herself -- Sara is a genius at dressmaking -- and it was the prettiest gown at the musicale .
Sara wore her old grey silk made over .
Sara does n't care anything about dress , but then she is forty .
Walter Shirley was at the Trents ' .
The Shirleys are a new family here ; they moved to Atwater two months ago .
Walter is the oldest son and has been at college in Marlboro all winter so that nobody here knew him until he came home a fortnight ago .
He is very handsome and distinguished-looking and everybody says he is so clever .
He plays the violin just beautifully and has such a melting , sympathetic voice and the loveliest deep , dark , inscrutable eyes .
I asked Sara when we came home if she did n't think he was splendid .
`` He 'd be a nice boy if he was n't rather conceited , '' said Sara .
After that it was impossible to say anything more about Mr. Shirley .
I am glad he is going to be in Atwater all summer .
We have so few really nice young men here ; they go away just as soon as they grow up and those who stay are just the muffs .
I wonder if I shall see Mr. Shirley soon again .
June Thirtieth .
It does not seem possible that it is only a month since my last entry .
It seems more like a year -- a delightful year .
I ca n't believe that I am the same Beatrice Mason who wrote then .
And I am not , either .
She was just a simple little girl , knowing nothing but romantic dreams .
I feel that I am very much changed .
Life seems so grand and high and beautiful .
I want to be a true noble woman .
Only such a woman could be worthy of -- of -- a fine , noble man .
But when I tried to say something like this to Sara she replied calmly : `` My dear child , the average woman is quite good enough for the average man .
If she can cook his meals decently and keep his buttons sewed on and does n't nag him he will think that life is a pretty comfortable affair .
And that reminds me , I saw holes in your black lace stockings yesterday .
Better go and darn them at once .
` Procrastination is the thief of time . ' ''
Sara can not understand .
Blanche Lawrence was married yesterday to Ted Martin .
I thought it the most solemn and sacred thing I had ever listened to -- the marriage ceremony , I mean .
I had never thought much about it before .
I do n't see how Blanche could care anything for Ted -- he is so stout and dumpy ; with shallow blue eyes and a little pale moustache .
I must say I do not like fair men .
But there is no doubt that he and Blanche love each other devotedly and that fact sufficed to make the service very beautiful to me -- those two people pledging each other to go through life together , meeting its storm and sunshine hand in hand , thinking joy the sweeter because they shared it , finding sorrow sacred because it came to them both .
When Sara and I walked home from the church Sara said , `` Well , considering the chances she has had , Blanche Lawrence has n't done so well after all . ''
`` Oh , Sara , '' I cried , `` she has married the man she loves and who loves her .
What better is there to do ?
I thought it beautiful . ''
`` They should have waited another year at least , '' said Sara severely .
`` Ted Martin has only been practising law for a year , and he had nothing to begin with .
He ca n't have made enough in one year in Atwater to justify him in setting up housekeeping .
I think a man ought to be ashamed of himself to take a girl from a good home to an uncertainty like that . ''
`` Not if she loved him and was willing to share the uncertainty , '' I said softly .
`` Love wo n't pay the butcher 's bill , '' said Sara with a sniff , `` and landlords have an unfeeling preference for money over affection .
Besides , Blanche is a mere child , far too young to be burdened with the responsibilities of life . ''
Blanche is twenty -- two years older than I am .
But Sara talks as if I were a mere infant .
July Thirtieth .
Oh , I am so happy !
I wonder if there is another girl in the world as happy as I am tonight .
No , of course there can not be , because there is only one Walter !
Walter and I are engaged .
It happened last night when we were sitting out in the moonlight under the silver maple on the lawn .
I can not write down what he said -- the words are too sacred and beautiful to be kept anywhere but in my own heart forever and ever as long as I live .
And I do n't remember just what I said .
But we understood each other perfectly at last .
Of course Sara had to do her best to spoil things .
Just as Walter had taken my hand in his and bent forward with his splendid earnest eyes just burning into mine , and my heart was beating so furiously , Sara came to the front door and called out , `` Beatrice !
Beatrice !
Have you your rubbers on ?
And do n't you think it is too damp out there for you in that heavy dew ?
Better come into the house , both of you .
Walter has a cold now . ''
`` Oh , we 'll be in soon , Sara , '' I said impatiently .
But we did n't go in for an hour , and when we did Sara was cross , and after Walter had gone she told me I was a very silly girl to be so reckless of my health and risk getting pneumonia loitering out in the dew with a sentimental boy .
I had had some vague thoughts of telling Sara all about my new happiness , for it was so great I wanted to talk it over with somebody , but I could n't after that .
Oh , I wish I had a mother !
She could understand .
But Sara can not .
Walter and I have decided to keep our engagement a secret for a month -- just our own beautiful secret unshared by anyone .
Then before he goes back to college he is going to tell Sara and ask her consent .
I do n't think Sara will refuse it exactly .
She really likes Walter very well .
But I know she will be horrid and I just dread it .
She will say I am too young and that a boy like Walter has no business to get engaged until he is through college and that we have n't known each other long enough to know anything about each other and that we are only a pair of romantic children .
And after she has said all this and given a disapproving consent she will begin to train me up in the way a good housekeeper should go , and talk to me about table linen and the best way to manage a range and how to tell if a chicken is really a chicken or only an old hen .
Oh , I know Sara !
She will set the teeth of my spirit on edge a dozen times a day and rub all the bloom off my dear , only , little romance with her horrible practicalities .
I know one must learn about those things of course and I do want to make Walter 's home the best and dearest and most comfortable spot on earth for him and be the very best little wife and housekeeper I can be when the time comes .
But I want to dream my dreams first and Sara will wake me up so early to realities .
This is why we determined to keep one month sacred to ourselves .
Walter will graduate next spring -- he is to be a doctor -- and then he intends to settle down in Atwater and work up a practice .
I am sure he will succeed for everyone likes him so much .
But we are to be married as soon as he is through college because he has a little money of his own -- enough to set up housekeeping in a modest way with care and economy .
I know Sara will talk about risk and waiting and all that just as she did in Ted Martin 's case .
But then Sara does not understand .
Oh , I am so happy !
It almost frightens me -- I do n't see how anything so wonderful can last .
But it will last , for nothing can ever separate Walter and me , and as long as we are together and love each other this great happiness will be mine .
Oh , I want to be so good and noble for his sake .
I want to make life `` one grand sweet song . ''
I have gone about the house today feeling like a woman consecrated and set apart from other women by Walter 's love .
Nothing could spoil it , not even when Sara scolded me for letting the preserves burn in the kettle because I forgot to stir them while I was planning out our life together .
Sara said she really did not know what would happen to me some day if I was so careless and forgetful .
But then , Sara does not understand .
August Twentieth .
It is all over .
Life is ended for me and I do not know how I can face the desolate future .
Walter and I have quarrelled and our engagement is broken .
He is gone and my heart is breaking .
I hardly know how it began .
I 'm sure I never meant to flirt with Jack Ray .
I never did flirt with him either , in spite of Walter 's unmanly accusations .
But Walter has been jealous of Jack all summer , although he knew perfectly well he need n't be , and two nights ago at the Morley dance poor Jack seemed so dull and unhappy that I tried to cheer him up a little and be kind to him .
I danced with him three times and sat out another dance just to talk with him in a real sisterly fashion .
But Walter was furious and last night when he came up he said horrid things -- things no girl of any spirit could endure , and things he could never have said to me if he had really cared one bit for me .
We had a frightful quarrel and when I saw plainly that Walter no longer loved me I told him that he was free and that I never wanted to see him again and that I hated him .
He glared at me and said that I should have my wish -- I never should see him again and he hoped he would never again meet such a faithless , fickle girl .
Then he went away and slammed the front door .
I cried all night , but today I went about the house singing .
I would not for the world let other people know how Walter has treated me .
I will hide my broken heart under a smiling face bravely .
But , oh , I am so miserable !
Just as soon as I am old enough I mean to go away and be a trained nurse .
There is nothing else left in life for me .
Sara does not suspect that anything is wrong and I am so thankful she does not .
She would not understand .
September Sixth .
Today I read this journal over and thought I would burn it , it is so silly .
But on second thought I concluded to keep it as a reminder of how blind and selfish I was and how good Sara is .
For I am happy again and everything is all right , thanks to Sara .
The very day after our quarrel Walter left Atwater .
He did not have to return to college for three weeks , but he went to visit some friends down in Charlotteville and I heard -- Mollie Roach told me -- Mollie Roach was always wild about Walter herself -- that he was not coming back again , but would go right on to Marlboro from Charlotteville .
I smiled squarely at Mollie as if I did n't care a particle , but I ca n't describe how I felt .
I knew then that I had really been hoping that something would happen in three weeks to make our quarrel up .
In a small place like Atwater people in the same set ca n't help meeting .
But Walter had gone and I should never see him again , and what was worse I knew he did n't care or he would n't have gone .
I bore it in silence for three weeks , but I will shudder to the end of my life when I remember those three weeks .
Night before last Sara came up to my room where I was lying on my bed with my face in the pillow .
I was n't crying -- I could n't cry .
There was just a dreadful dull ache in everything .
Sara sat down on the rocker in front of the window and the sunset light came in behind her and made a sort of nimbus round her head , like a motherly saint 's in a cathedral .
`` Beatrice , '' she said gently , `` I want to know what the trouble is .
You ca n't hide it from me that something is wrong .
I 've noticed it for some time .
You do n't eat anything and you cry all night -- oh , yes , I know you do .
What is it , dear ? ''
`` Oh , Sara ! ''
I just gave a little cry , slipped from the bed to the floor , laid my head in her lap , and told her everything .
It was such a relief , and such a relief to feel those good motherly arms around me and to realize that here was a love that would never fail me no matter what I did or how foolish I was .
Sara heard me out and then she said , without a word of reproach or contempt , `` It will all come out right yet , dear .
Write to Walter and tell him you are sorry . ''
`` Sara , I never could !
He does n't love me any longer -- he said he hoped he 'd never see me again . ''
`` Did n't you say the same to him , child ?
He meant it as little as you did .
Do n't let your foolish pride keep you miserable . ''
`` If Walter wo n't come back to me without my asking him he 'll never come , Sara , '' I said stubbornly .
Sara did n't scold or coax any more .
She patted my head and kissed me and made me bathe my face and go to bed .
Then she tucked me in just as she used to do when I was a little girl .
`` Now , do n't cry , dear , '' she said , `` it will come right yet . ''
Somehow , I began to hope it would when Sara thought so , and anyhow it was such a comfort to have talked it all over with her .
I slept better than I had for a long time , and it was seven o'clock yesterday morning when I woke to find that it was a dull grey day outside and that Sara was standing by my bed with her hat and jacket on .
`` I 'm going down to Junction Falls on the 7:30 train to see Mr. Conway about coming to fix the back kitchen floor , '' she said , `` and I have some other business that may keep me for some time , so do n't be anxious if I 'm not back till late .
Give the bread a good kneading in an hour 's time and be careful not to bake it too much . ''
That was a dismal day .
It began to rain soon after Sara left and it just poured .
I never saw a soul all day except the milkman , and I was really frantic by night .
I never was so glad of anything as when I heard Sara 's step on the verandah .
I flew to the front door to let her in -- and there was Walter all dripping wet -- and his arms were about me and I was crying on the shoulder of his mackintosh .
I only guessed then what I knew later on .
Sara had heard from Mrs. Shirley that Walter was going to Marlboro that day without coming back to Atwater .
Sara knew that he must change trains at Junction Falls and she went there to meet him .
She did n't know what train he would come on so she went to meet the earliest and had to wait till the last , hanging around the dirty little station at the Falls all day while it poured rain , and she had n't a thing to eat except some fancy biscuits she had bought on the train .
But Walter came at last on the 7:50 train and there was Sara to pounce on him .
He told me afterwards that no angel could have been so beautiful a vision to him as Sara was , standing there on the wet platform with her tweed skirt held up and a streaming umbrella over her head , telling him he must come back to Atwater because Beatrice wanted him to .
But just at the moment of his coming I did n't care how he had come or who had brought him .
I just realized that he was there and that was enough .
Sara came in behind him .
Walter 's wet arms were about me and I was standing there with my thin-slippered feet in a little pool of water that dripped from his umbrella .
But Sara never said a word about colds and dampness .
She just smiled , went on into the sitting-room , and shut the door .
Sara understood .
The Unforgotten One It was Christmas Eve , but there was no frost , or snow , or sparkle .
It was a green Christmas , and the night was mild and dim , with hazy starlight .
A little wind was laughing freakishly among the firs around Ingleside and rustling among the sere grasses along the garden walks .
It was more like a night in early spring or late fall than in December ; but it was Christmas Eve , and there was a light in every window of Ingleside , the glow breaking out through the whispering darkness like a flame-red blossom swung against the background of the evergreens ; for the children were coming home for the Christmas reunion , as they always came -- Fritz and Margaret and Laddie and Nora , and Robert 's two boys in the place of Robert , who had died fourteen years ago -- and the old house must put forth its best of light and good cheer to welcome them .
Doctor Fritz and his brood were the last to arrive , driving up to the hall door amid a chorus of welcoming barks from the old dogs and a hail of merry calls from the group in the open doorway .
`` We 're all here now , '' said the little mother , as she put her arms about the neck of her stalwart firstborn and kissed his bearded face .
There were handshakings and greetings and laughter .
Only Nanny , far back in the shadows of the firelit hall , swallowed a resentful sob , and wiped two bitter tears from her eyes with her little red hand .
`` We 're not all here , '' she murmured under her breath .
`` Miss Avis is n't here .
Oh , how can they be so glad ?
How can they have forgotten ? ''
But nobody heard or heeded Nanny -- she was only the little orphan `` help '' girl at Ingleside .
They were all very good to her , and they were all very fond of her , but at the times of family reunion Nanny was unconsciously counted out .
There was no bond of blood to unite her to them , and she was left on the fringe of things .
Nanny never resented this -- it was all a matter of course to her ; but on this Christmas Eve her heart was broken because she thought that nobody remembered Miss Avis .
After supper they all gathered around the open fireplace of the hall , hung with its berries and evergreens in honour of the morrow .
It was their unwritten law to form a fireside circle on Christmas Eve and tell each other what the year had brought them of good and ill , sorrow and joy .
The circle was smaller by one than it had been the year before , but none spoke of that .
There was a smile on every face and happiness in every voice .
The father and mother sat in the centre , grey-haired and placid , their fine old faces written over with the history of gracious lives .
Beside the mother , Doctor Fritz sat like a boy , on the floor , with his massive head , grey as his father 's , on her lap , and one of his smooth , muscular hands , that were as tender as a woman 's at the operating table , clasped in hers .
Next to him sat sweet Nora , the twenty-year-old `` baby , '' who taught in a city school ; the rosy firelight gleamed lovingly over her girlish beauty of burnished brown hair , dreamy blue eyes , and soft , virginal curves of cheek and throat .
Doctor Fritz 's spare arm was about her , but Nora 's own hands were clasped over her knee , and on one of them sparkled a diamond that had not been there at the last Christmas reunion .
Laddie , who figured as Archibald only in the family Bible , sat close to the inglenook -- a handsome young fellow with a daring brow and rollicking eyes .
On the other side sat Margaret , hand in hand with her father , a woman whose gracious sweetness of nature enveloped her as a garment ; and Robert 's two laughing boys filled up the circle , looking so much alike that it was hard to say which was Cecil and which was Sid .
Margaret 's husband and Fritz 's wife were playing games with the children in the parlour , whence shrieks of merriment drifted out into the hall .
Nanny might have been with them had she chosen , but she preferred to sit alone in the darkest corner of the hall and gaze with jealous , unhappy eyes at the mirthful group about the fire , listening to their story and jest and laughter with unavailing protest in her heart .
Oh , how could they have forgotten so soon ?
It was not yet a full year since Miss Avis had gone .
Last Christmas Eve she had sat there , a sweet and saintly presence , in the inglenook , more , so it had almost seemed , the centre of the home circle than the father and mother ; and now the December stars were shining over her grave , and not one of that heedless group remembered her ; not once was her name spoken ; even her old dog had forgotten her -- he sat with his nose in Margaret 's lap , blinking with drowsy , aged contentment at the fire .
`` Oh , I ca n't bear it ! ''
whispered Nanny , under cover of the hearty laughter which greeted a story Doctor Fritz had been telling .
She slipped out into the kitchen , put on her hood and cloak , and took from a box under the table a little wreath of holly .
She had made it out of the bits left over from the decorations .
Miss Avis had loved holly ; Miss Avis had loved every green , growing thing .
As Nanny opened the kitchen door something cold touched her hand , and there stood the old dog , wagging his tail and looking up at her with wistful eyes , mutely pleading to be taken , too .
`` So you do remember her , Gyppy , '' said Nanny , patting his head .
`` Come along then .
We 'll go together . ''
They slipped out into the night .
It was quite dark , but it was not far to the graveyard -- just out through the evergreens and along a field by-path and across the road .
The old church was there , with its square tower , and the white stones gleaming all around it .
Nanny went straight to a shadowy corner and knelt on the sere grasses while she placed her holly wreath on Miss Avis 's grave .
The tears in her eyes brimmed over .
`` Oh , Miss Avis !
Miss Avis ! ''
she sobbed .
`` I miss you so -- I miss you so !
It ca n't ever seem like Christmas to me without you .
You were always so sweet and kind to me .
There ai n't a day passes but I think of you and all the things you used to say to me , and I try to be good like you 'd want me to be .
But I hate them for forgetting you -- yes , I do !
I 'll never forget you , darling Miss Avis !
I 'd rather be here alone with you in the dark than back there with them . ''
Nanny sat down by the grave .
The old dog lay down by her side with his forepaws on the turf and his eyes fixed on the tall white marble shaft .
It was too dark for Nanny to read the inscription but she knew every word of it : `` In loving remembrance of Avis Maywood , died January 20 , 1902 , aged 45 . ''
And underneath the lines of her own choosing : `` Say not good night , but in some brighter clime Bid me good morning . ''
But they had forgotten her -- oh , they had forgotten her already !
When half an hour had passed , Nanny was startled by approaching footsteps .
Not wishing to be seen , she crept softly behind the headstones into the shadow of the willow on the farther side , and the old dog followed .
Doctor Fritz , coming to the grave , thought himself alone with the dead .
He knelt down by the headstone and pressed his face against it .
`` Avis , '' he said gently , `` dear Avis , I have come to visit your grave tonight because you seem nearer to me here than elsewhere .
And I want to talk to you , Avis , as I have always talked to you every Christmastide since we were children together .
I have missed you so tonight , dear friend and sympathizer -- no words can tell how I have missed you -- your welcoming handclasp and your sweet face in the firelight shadows .
I could not bear to speak your name , the aching sense of loss was so bitter .
Amid all the Christmas mirth and good fellowship I felt the sorrow of your vacant chair .
Avis , I wanted to tell you what the year had brought to me .
My theory has been proved ; it has made me a famous man .
Last Christmas , Avis , I told you of it , and you listened and understood and believed in it .
Dear Avis , once again I thank you for all you have been to me -- all you are yet .
I have brought you your roses ; they are as white and pure and fragrant as your life . ''
Other footsteps came so quickly on Doctor Fritz ' retreating ones that Nanny could not rise .
It was Laddie this time -- gay , careless , thoughtless Laddie .
`` Roses ?
So Fritz has been here !
I have brought you lilies , Avis .
Oh , Avis , I miss you so !
You were so jolly and good -- you understood a fellow so well .
I had to come here tonight to tell you how much I miss you .
It does n't seem half home without you .
Avis , I 'm trying to be a better chap -- more the sort of man you 'd have me be .
I 've given the old set the go-by -- I 'm trying to live up to your standard .
It would be easier if you were here to help me .
When I was a kid it was always easier to be good for awhile after I 'd talked things over with you .
I 've got the best mother a fellow ever had , but you and I were such chums , were n't we , Avis ?
I thought I 'd just break down in there tonight and put a damper on everything by crying like a baby .
If anybody had spoken about you , I should have .
Hello ! ''
Laddie wheeled around with a start , but it was only Robert 's two boys , who came shyly up to the grave , half hanging back to find anyone else there .
`` Hello , boys , '' said Laddie huskily .
`` So you 've come to see her grave too ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Cecil solemnly .
`` We -- we just had to .
We could n't go to bed without coming .
Oh , is n't it lonesome without Cousin Avis ? ''
`` She was always so good to us , '' said Sid .
`` She used to talk to us so nice , '' said Cecil chokily .
`` But she liked fun , too . ''
`` Boys , '' said Laddie gravely , `` never forget what Cousin Avis used to say to you .
Never forget that you have got to grow up into men she 'd be proud of . ''
They went away then , the boys and their boyish uncle ; and when they had gone Nora came , stealing timidly through the shadows , starting at the rustle of the wind in the trees .
`` Oh , Avis , '' she whispered .
`` I want to see you so much !
I want to tell you all about it -- about him .
You would understand so well .
He is the best and dearest lover ever a girl had .
You would think so too .
Oh , Avis , I miss you so much !
There 's a little shadow even on my happiness because I ca n't talk it over with you in the old way .
Oh , Avis , it was dreadful to sit around the fire tonight and not see you .
Perhaps you were there in spirit .
I love to think you were , but I wanted to see you .
You were always there to come home to before , Avis , dear . ''
Sobbing , she went away ; and then came Margaret , the grave , strong Margaret .
`` Dear cousin , dear to me as a sister , it seemed to me that I must come to you here tonight .
I can not tell you how much I miss your wise , clear-sighted advice and judgment , your wholesome companionship .
A little son was born to me this past year , Avis .
How glad you would have been , for you knew , as none other did , the bitterness of my childless heart .
How we would have delighted to talk over my baby together , and teach him wisely between us !
Avis , Avis , your going made a blank that can never be filled for me ! ''
Margaret was still standing there when the old people came .
`` Father !
Mother !
Is n't it too late and chilly for you to be here ? ''
`` No , Margaret , no , '' said the mother .
`` I could n't go to my bed without coming to see Avis 's grave .
I brought her up from a baby -- her dying mother gave her to me .
She was as much my own child as any of you .
And oh !
I miss her so .
You only miss her when you come home , but I miss her all the time -- every day ! ''
`` We all miss her , Mother , '' said the old father , tremulously .
`` She was a good girl -- Avis was a good girl .
Good night , Avis ! '' ''
` Say not good night , but in some brighter clime bid her good morning , ' '' quoted Margaret softly .
`` That was her own wish , you know .
Let us go back now .
It is getting late . ''
When they had gone Nanny crept out from the shadows .
It had not occurred to her that perhaps she should not have listened -- she had been too shy to make her presence known to those who came to Avis 's grave .
But her heart was full of joy .
`` Oh , Miss Avis , I 'm so glad , I 'm so glad !
They have n't forgotten you after all , Miss Avis , dear , not one of them .
I 'm sorry I was so cross at them ; and I 'm so glad they have n't forgotten you .
I love them for it . ''
Then the old dog and Nanny went home together .
The Wooing of Bessy When Lawrence Eastman began going to see Bessy Houghton the Lynnfield people shrugged their shoulders and said he might have picked out somebody a little younger and prettier -- but then , of course , Bessy was well off .
A two-hundred-acre farm and a substantial bank account were worth going in for .
Trust an Eastman for knowing upon which side his bread was buttered .
Lawrence was only twenty , and looked even younger , owing to his smooth , boyish face , curly hair , and half-girlish bloom .
Bessy Houghton was in reality no more than twenty-five , but Lynnfield people had the impression that she was past thirty .
She had always been older than her years -- a quiet , reserved girl who dressed plainly and never went about with other young people .
Her mother had died when Bessy was very young , and she had always kept house for her father .
The responsibility made her grave and mature .
When she was twenty her father died and Bessy was his sole heir .
She kept the farm and took the reins of government in her own capable hands .
She made a success of it too , which was more than many a man in Lynnfield had done .
Bessy had never had a lover .
She had never seemed like other girls , and passed for an old maid when her contemporaries were in the flush of social success and bloom .
Mrs. Eastman , Lawrence 's mother , was a widow with two sons .
George , the older , was the mother 's favourite , and the property had been willed to him by his father .
To Lawrence had been left the few hundreds in the bank .
He stayed at home and hired himself to George , thereby adding slowly to his small hoard .
He had his eye on a farm in Lynnfield , but he was as yet a mere boy , and his plans for the future were very vague until he fell in love with Bessy Houghton .
In reality nobody was more surprised over this than Lawrence himself .
It had certainly been the last thing in his thoughts on the dark , damp night when he had overtaken Bessy walking home alone from prayer meeting and had offered to drive her the rest of the way .
Bessy assented and got into his buggy .
At first she was very silent , and Lawrence , who was a bashful lad at the best of times , felt tongue-tied and uncomfortable .
But presently Bessy , pitying his evident embarrassment , began to talk to him .
She could talk well , and Lawrence found himself entering easily into the spirit of her piquant speeches .
He had an odd feeling that he had never known Bessy Houghton before ; he had certainly never guessed that she could be such good company .
She was very different from the other girls he knew , but he decided that he liked the difference .
`` Are you going to the party at Baileys ' tomorrow night ? ''
he asked , as he helped her to alight at her door .
`` I do n't know , '' she answered .
`` I 'm invited -- but I 'm all alone -- and parties have never been very much in my line . ''
There was a wistful note in her voice , and Lawrence detecting it , said hurriedly , not giving himself time to get frightened : `` Oh , you 'd better go to this one .
And if you like , I 'll call around and take you . ''
He wondered if she would think him very presumptuous .
He thought her voice sounded colder as she said : `` I am afraid that it would be too much trouble for you . ''
`` It would n't be any trouble at all , '' he stammered .
`` I 'll be very pleased to take you . ''
In the end Bessy had consented to go , and the next evening Lawrence called for her in the rose-red autumn dusk .
Bessy was ready and waiting .
She was dressed in what was for her unusual elegance , and Lawrence wondered why people called Bessy Houghton so plain .
Her figure was strikingly symmetrical and softly curved .
Her abundant , dark-brown hair , instead of being parted plainly and drawn back into a prim coil as usual , was dressed high on her head , and a creamy rose nestled amid the becoming puffs and waves .
She wore black , as she usually did , but it was a lustrous black silk , simply and fashionably made , with frost-like frills of lace at her firm round throat and dainty wrists .
Her cheeks were delicately flushed , and her wood-brown eyes were sparkling under her long lashes .
She offered him a half-opened bud for his coat and pinned it on for him .
As he looked down at her he noticed what a sweet mouth she had -- full and red , with a half child-like curve .
The fact that Lawrence Eastman took Bessy Houghton to the Baileys ' party made quite a sensation at that festal scene .
People nodded and winked and wondered .
`` An old maid and her money , '' said Milly Fiske spitefully .
Milly , as was well known , had a liking for Lawrence herself .
Lawrence began to `` go with '' Bessy Houghton regularly after that .
In his single-mindedness he never feared that Bessy would misjudge his motives or imagine him to be prompted by mercenary designs .
He never thought of her riches himself , and it never occurred to him that she would suppose he did .
He soon realized that he loved her , and he ventured to hope timidly that she loved him in return .
She was always rather reserved , but the few favours that meant nothing from other girls meant a great deal from Bessy .
The evenings he spent with her in her pretty sitting-room , their moonlight drives over long , satin-smooth stretches of snowy roads , and their walks home from church and prayer meeting under the winter stars , were all so many moments of supreme happiness to Lawrence .
* * * * * Matters had gone thus far before Mrs. Eastman got her eyes opened .
At Mrs. Tom Bailey 's quilting party an officious gossip took care to inform her that Lawrence was supposed to be crazy over Bessy Houghton , who was , of course , encouraging him simply for the sake of having someone to beau her round , and who would certainly throw him over in the end since she knew perfectly well that it was her money he was after .
Mrs. Eastman was a proud woman and a determined one .
She had always disliked Bessy Houghton , and she went home from the quilting resolved to put an instant stop to `` all such nonsense '' on her son 's part .
`` Where is Lawrie ? ''
she asked abruptly ; as she entered the small kitchen where George Eastman was lounging by the fire .
`` Out in the stable grooming up Lady Grey , '' responded her older son sulkily .
`` I suppose he 's gadding off to see Bessy Houghton again , the young fool that he is !
Why do n't you put a stop to it ? ''
`` I am going to put a stop to it , '' said Mrs. Eastman grimly .
`` I 'd have done it before if I 'd known .
You should have told me of it if you knew .
I 'm going out to see Lawrence right now . ''
George Eastman muttered something inaudible as the door closed behind her .
He was a short , thickset man , not in the least like Lawrence , who was ten years his junior .
Two years previously he had made a furtive attempt to pay court to Bessy Houghton for the sake of her wealth , and her decided repulse of his advances was a remembrance that made him grit his teeth yet .
He had hated her bitterly ever since .
Lawrence was brushing his pet mare 's coat until it shone like satin , and whistling `` Annie Laurie '' until the rafters rang .
Bessy had sung it for him the night before .
He could see her plainly still as she had looked then , in her gown of vivid red -- a colour peculiarly becoming to her -- with her favourite laces at wrist and throat and a white rose in her hair , which was dressed in the high , becoming knot she had always worn since the night he had shyly told her he liked it so .
She had played and sung many of the sweet old Scotch ballads for him , and when she had gone to the door with him he had taken both her hands in his and , emboldened by the look in her brown eyes , he had stooped and kissed her .
Then he had stepped back , filled with dismay at his own audacity .
But Bessy had said no word of rebuke , and only blushed hotly crimson .
She must care for him , he thought happily , or else she would have been angry .
When his mother came in at the stable door her face was hard and uncompromising .
`` Lawrie , '' she said sharply , `` where are you going again tonight ?
You were out last night . ''
`` Well , Mother , I promise you I was n't in any bad company .
Come now , do n't quiz a fellow too close . ''
`` You are going to dangle after Bessy Houghton again .
It 's time you were told what a fool you were making of yourself .
She 's old enough to be your mother .
The whole settlement is laughing at you . ''
Lawrence looked as if his mother had struck him a blow in the face .
A dull , purplish flush crept over his brow .
`` This is some of George 's work , '' he broke out fiercely .
`` He 's been setting you on me , has he ?
Yes , he 's jealous -- he wanted Bessy himself , but she would not look at him .
He thinks nobody knows it , but I do .
Bessy marry him ?
It 's very likely ! ''
`` Lawrie Eastman , you are daft .
George has n't said anything to me .
You surely do n't imagine Bessy Houghton would marry you .
And if she would , she is too old for you .
Now , do n't you hang around her any longer . ''
`` I will , '' said Lawrence flatly .
`` I do n't care what anybody says .
You need n't worry over me .
I can take care of myself . ''
Mrs. Eastman looked blankly at her son .
He had never defied or disobeyed her in his life before .
She had supposed her word would be law .
Rebellion was something she had not dreamed of .
Her lips tightened ominously and her eyes narrowed .
`` You 're a bigger fool than I took you for , '' she said in a voice that trembled with anger .
`` Bessy Houghton laughs at you everywhere .
She knows you 're just after her money , and she makes fun -- '' `` Prove it , '' interrupted Lawrence undauntedly , `` I 'm not going to put any faith in Lynnfield gossip .
Prove it if you can . ''
`` I can prove it .
Maggie Hatfield told me what Bessy Houghton said to her about you .
She said you were a lovesick fool , and she only went with you for a little amusement , and that if you thought you had nothing to do but marry her and hang up your hat there you 'd find yourself vastly mistaken . ''
Possibly in her calmer moments Mrs. Eastman might have shrunk from such a deliberate falsehood , although it was said of her in Lynnfield that she was not one to stick at a lie when the truth would not serve her purpose .
Moreover , she felt quite sure that Lawrence would never ask Maggie Hatfield anything about it .
Lawrence turned white to the lips , `` Is that true , Mother ? ''
he asked huskily .
`` I 've warned you , '' replied his mother , not choosing to repeat her statement .
`` If you go after Bessy any more you can take the consequences . ''
She drew her shawl about her pale , malicious face and left him with a parting glance of contempt .
`` I guess that 'll settle him , '' she thought grimly .
`` Bessy Houghton turned up her nose at George , but she sha n't make a fool of Lawrence too . ''
Alone in the stable Lawrence stood staring out at the dull red ball of the winter sun with unseeing eyes .
He had implicit faith in his mother , and the stab had gone straight to his heart .
Bessy Houghton listened in vain that night for his well-known footfall on the verandah .
The next night Lawrence went home with Milly Fiske from prayer meeting , taking her out from a crowd of other girls under Bessy Houghton 's very eyes as she came down the steps of the little church .
Bessy walked home alone .
The light burned low in her sitting-room , and in the mirror over the mantel she saw her own pale face , with its tragic , pain-stricken eyes .
Annie Hillis , her `` help , '' was out .
She was alone in the big house with her misery and despair .
She went dizzily upstairs to her own room and flung herself on the bed in the chill moonlight .
`` It is all over , '' she said dully .
All night she lay there , fighting with her pain .
In the wan , grey morning she looked at her mirrored self with pitying scorn -- at the pallid face , the lifeless features , the dispirited eyes with their bluish circles .
`` What a fool I have been to imagine he could care for me ! ''
she said bitterly .
`` He has only been amusing himself with my folly .
And to think that I let him kiss me the other night ! ''
She thought of that kiss with a pitiful shame .
She hated herself for the weakness that could not check her tears .
Her lonely life had been brightened by the companionship of her young lover .
The youth and girlhood of which fate had cheated her had come to her with love ; the future had looked rosy with promise ; now it had darkened with dourness and greyness .
Maggie Hatfield came that day to sew .
Bessy had intended to have a dark-blue silk made up and an evening waist of pale pink cashmere .
She had expected to wear the latter at a party which was to come off a fortnight later , and she had got it to please Lawrence , because he had told her that pink was his favourite colour .
She would have neither it nor the silk made up now .
She put them both away and instead brought out an ugly pattern of snuff-brown stuff , bought years before and never used .
`` But where is your lovely pink , Bessy ? ''
asked the dressmaker .
`` Are n't you going to have it for the party ? ''
`` No , I 'm not going to have it made up at all , '' said Bessy listlessly .
`` It 's too gay for me .
I was foolish to think it would ever suit me .
This brown will do for a spring suit .
It does n't make much difference what I wear . ''
Maggie Hatfield , who had not been at prayer meeting the night beforehand knew nothing of what had occurred , looked at her curiously , wondering what Lawrence Eastman could see in her to be as crazy about her as some people said he was .
Bessy was looking her oldest and plainest just then , with her hair combed severely back from her pale , dispirited face .
`` It must be her money he is after , '' thought the dressmaker .
`` She looks over thirty , and she ca n't pretend to be pretty .
I believe she thinks a lot of him , though . ''
For the most part , Lynnfield people believed that Bessy had thrown Lawrence over .
This opinion was borne out by his woebegone appearance .
He was thin and pale ; his face had lost its youthful curves and looked hard and mature .
He was moody and taciturn and his speech and manner were marked by a new cynicism .
* * * * * In April a well-to-do storekeeper from an adjacent village began to court Bessy Houghton .
He was over fifty , and had never been a handsome man in his best days , but Lynnfield oracles opined that Bessy would take him .
She could n't expect to do any better , they said , and she was looking terribly old and dowdy all at once .
In June Maggie Hatfield went to the Eastmans ' to sew .
The first bit of news she imparted to Mrs. Eastman was that Bessy Houghton had refused Jabez Lea -- at least , he did n't come to see her any more .
Mrs. Eastman twitched her thread viciously .
`` Bessy Houghton was born an old maid , '' she said sharply .
`` She thinks nobody is good enough for her , that is what 's the matter .
Lawrence got some silly boy-notion into his head last winter , but I soon put a stop to that . ''
`` I always had an idea that Bessy thought a good deal of Lawrence , '' said Maggie .
`` She has never been the same since he left off going with her .
I was up there the morning after that prayer-meeting night people talked so much of , and she looked positively dreadful , as if she had n't slept a wink the whole night . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Mrs. Eastman decisively .
`` She would never think of taking a boy like him when she 'd turned up her nose at better men .
And I did n't want her for a daughter-in-law anyhow .
I ca n't bear her .
So I put my foot down in time .
Lawrence sulked for a spell , of course -- boy-fashion -- and he 's been as fractious as a spoiled baby ever since . ''
`` Well , I dare say you 're right , '' assented the dressmaker .
`` But I must say I had always imagined that Bessy had a great notion of Lawrence .
Of course , she 's so quiet it is hard to tell .
She never says a word about herself . ''
There was an unsuspected listener to this conversation .
Lawrence had come in from the field for a drink , and was standing in the open kitchen doorway , within easy earshot of the women 's shrill tones .
He had never doubted his mother 's word at any time in his life , but now he knew beyond doubt that there had been crooked work somewhere .
He shrank from believing his mother untrue , yet where else could the crookedness come in ?
When Mrs. Eastman had gone to the kitchen to prepare dinner , Maggie Hatfield was startled by the appearance of Lawrence at the low open window of the sitting-room .
`` Mercy me , how you scared me ! ''
she exclaimed nervously .
`` Maggie , '' said Lawrence seriously , `` I want to ask you a question .
Did Bessy Houghton ever say anything to you about me or did you ever say that she did ?
Give me a straight answer . ''
The dressmaker peered at him curiously .
`` No .
Bessy never so much as mentioned your name to me , '' she said , `` and I never heard that she did to anyone else .
Why ? ''
`` Thank you .
That was all I wanted to know , '' said Lawrence , ignoring her question , and disappearing as suddenly as he had come .
That evening at moonrise he passed through the kitchen dressed in his Sunday best .
His mother met him at the door .
`` Where are you going ? ''
she asked querulously .
Lawrence looked her squarely in the face with accusing eyes , before which her own quailed .
`` I 'm going to see Bessy Houghton , Mother , '' he said sternly , `` and to ask her pardon for believing the lie that has kept us apart so long . ''
Mrs. Eastman flushed crimson and opened her lips to speak .
But something in Lawrence 's grave , white face silenced her .
She turned away without a word , knowing in her secret soul that her youngest-born was lost to her forever .
Lawrence found Bessy in the orchard under apple trees that were pyramids of pearly bloom .
She looked at him through the twilight with reproach and aloofness in her eyes .
But he put out his hands and caught her reluctant ones in a masterful grasp .
`` Listen to me , Bessy .
Do n't condemn me before you 've heard me .
I 've been to blame for believing falsehoods about you , but I believe them no longer , and I 've come to ask you to forgive me . ''
He told his story simply and straightforwardly .
In strict justice he could not keep his mother 's name out of it , but he merely said she had been mistaken .
Perhaps Bessy understood none the less .
She knew what Mrs. Eastman 's reputation in Lynnfield was .
`` You might have had a little more faith in me , '' she cried reproachfully .
`` I know -- I know .
But I was beside myself with pain and wretchedness .
Oh , Bessy , wo n't you forgive me ?
I love you so !
If you send me away I 'll go to the dogs .
Forgive me , Bessy . ''
And she , being a woman , did forgive him .
`` I 've loved you from the first , Lawrence , '' she said , yielding to his kiss .
Their Girl Josie When Paul Morgan , a rising young lawyer with justifiable political aspirations , married Elinor Ashton , leading woman at the Green Square Theatre , his old schoolmates and neighbours back in Spring Valley held up their hands in horror , and his father and mother up in the weather-grey Morgan homestead were crushed in the depths of humiliation .
They had been too proud of Paul ... their only son and such a clever fellow ... and this was their punishment !
He had married an actress !
To Cyrus and Deborah Morgan , brought up and nourished all their lives on the strictest and straightest of old-fashioned beliefs both as regards this world and that which is to come , this was a tragedy .
They could not be brought to see it in any other light .
As their neighbours said , `` Cy Morgan never hilt up his head again after Paul married the play-acting woman . ''
But perhaps it was less his humiliation than his sorrow which bowed down his erect form and sprinkled grey in his thick black hair that fifty years had hitherto spared .
For Paul , forgetting the sacrifices his mother and father had made for him , had bitterly resented the letter of protest his father had written concerning his marriage .
He wrote one angry , unfilial letter back and then came silence .
Between grief and shame Cyrus and Deborah Morgan grew old rapidly in the year that followed .
At the end of that time Elinor Morgan , the mother of an hour , died ; three months later Paul Morgan was killed in a railroad collision .
After the funeral Cyrus Morgan brought home to his wife their son 's little daughter , Joscelyn Morgan .
Her aunt , Annice Ashton , had wanted the baby .
Cyrus Morgan had been almost rude in his refusal .
His son 's daughter should never be brought up by an actress ; it was bad enough that her mother had been one and had doubtless transmitted the taint to her child .
But in Spring Valley , if anywhere , it might be eradicated .
At first neither Cyrus nor Deborah cared much for Joscelyn .
They resented her parentage , her strange , un-Morgan-like name , and the pronounced resemblance she bore to the dark-haired , dark-eyed mother they had never seen .
All the Morgans had been fair .
If Joscelyn had had Paul 's blue eyes and golden curls her grandfather and grandmother would have loved her sooner .
But the love came ... it had to .
No living mortal could have resisted Joscelyn .
She was the most winsome and lovable little mite of babyhood that ever toddled .
Her big dark eyes overflowed with laughter before she could speak , her puckered red mouth broke constantly into dimples and cooing sounds .
She had ways that no orthodox Spring Valley baby ever thought of having .
Every smile was a caress , every gurgle of attempted speech a song .
Her grandparents came to worship her and were stricter than ever with her by reason of their love .
Because she was so dear to them she must be saved from her mother 's blood .
Joscelyn shot up through a roly-poly childhood into slim , bewitching girlhood in a chill repressive atmosphere .
Cyrus and Deborah were nothing if not thorough .
The name of Joscelyn 's mother was never mentioned to her ; she was never called anything but Josie , which sounded more `` Christian-like '' than Joscelyn ; and all the flowering out of her alien beauty was repressed as far as might be in the plainest and dullest of dresses and the primmest arrangement possible to riotous ripe-brown curls .
The girl was never allowed to visit her Aunt Annice , although frequently invited .
Miss Ashton , however , wrote to her occasionally , and every Christmas sent a box of presents which even Cyrus and Deborah Morgan could not forbid her to accept , although they looked with disapproving eyes and ominously set lips at the dainty , frivolous trifles the actress woman sent .
They would have liked to cast those painted fans and lace frills and beflounced lingerie into the fire as if they had been infected rags from a pest-house .
The path thus set for Joscelyn 's dancing feet to walk in was indeed sedate and narrow .
She was seldom allowed to mingle with the young people of even quiet , harmless Spring Valley ; she was never allowed to attend local concerts , much less take part in them ; she was forbidden to read novels , and Cyrus Morgan burned an old copy of Shakespeare which Paul had given him years ago and which he had himself read and treasured , lest its perusal should awaken unlawful instincts in Joscelyn 's heart .
The girl 's passion for reading was so marked that her grandparents felt that it was their duty to repress it as far as lay in their power .
But Joscelyn 's vitality was such that all her bonds and bands served but little to check or retard the growth of her rich nature .
Do what they might they could not make a Morgan of her .
Her every step was a dance , her every word and gesture full of a grace and virility that filled the old folks with uneasy wonder .
She seemed to them charged with dangerous tendencies all the more potent from repression .
She was sweet-tempered and sunny , truthful and modest , but she was as little like the trim , simple Spring Valley girls as a crimson rose is like a field daisy , and her unlikeness bore heavily on her grandparents .
Yet they loved her and were proud of her .
`` Our girl Josie , '' as they called her , was more to them than they would have admitted even to themselves , and in the main they were satisfied with her , although the grandmother grumbled because Josie did not take kindly to patchwork and rug-making and the grandfather would fain have toned down that exuberance of beauty and vivacity into the meeker pattern of maidenhood he had been accustomed to .
When Joscelyn was seventeen Deborah Morgan noticed a change in her .
The girl became quieter and more brooding , falling at times into strange , idle reveries , with her hands clasped over her knee and her big eyes fixed unseeingly on space ; or she would creep away for solitary rambles in the beech wood , going away droopingly and returning with dusky glowing cheeks and a nameless radiance , as of some newly discovered power , shining through every muscle and motion .
Mrs. Morgan thought the child needed a tonic and gave her sulphur and molasses .
One day the revelation came .
Cyrus and Deborah had driven across the valley to visit their married daughter .
Not finding her at home they returned .
Mrs. Morgan went into the house while her husband went to the stable .
Joscelyn was not in the kitchen , but the grandmother heard the sound of voices and laughter in the sitting room across the hall .
`` What company has Josie got ? ''
she wondered , as she opened the hall door and paused for a moment on the threshold to listen .
As she listened her old face grew grey and pinched ; she turned noiselessly and left the house , and flew to her husband as one distracted .
`` Cyrus , Josie is play-acting in the room ... laughing and reciting and going on .
I heard her .
Oh , I 've always feared it would break out in her and it has !
Come you and listen to her . ''
The old couple crept through the kitchen and across the hall to the open parlour door as if they were stalking a thief .
Joscelyn 's laugh rang out as they did so ... a mocking , triumphant peal .
Cyrus and Deborah shivered as if they had heard sacrilege .
Joscelyn had put on a trailing , clinging black skirt which her aunt had sent her a year ago and which she had never been permitted to wear .
It transformed her into a woman .
She had cast aside her waist of dark plum-coloured homespun and wrapped a silken shawl about herself until only her beautiful arms and shoulders were left bare .
Her hair , glossy and brown , with burnished red lights where the rays of the dull autumn sun struck on it through the window , was heaped high on her head and held in place by a fillet of pearl beads .
Her cheeks were crimson , her whole body from head to foot instinct and alive with a beauty that to Cyrus and Deborah , as they stood mute with horror in the open doorway , seemed akin to some devilish enchantment .
Joscelyn , rapt away from her surroundings , did not perceive her grandparents .
Her face was turned from them and she was addressing an unseen auditor in passionate denunciation .
She spoke , moved , posed , gesticulated , with an inborn genius shining through every motion and tone like an illuminating lamp .
`` Josie , what are you doing ? ''
It was Cyrus who spoke , advancing into the room like a stern , hard impersonation of judgment .
Joscelyn 's outstretched arm fell to her side and she turned sharply around ; fear came into her face and the light went out of it .
A moment before she had been a woman , splendid , unafraid ; now she was again the schoolgirl , too confused and shamed to speak .
`` What are you doing , Josie ? ''
asked her grandfather again , `` dressed up in that indecent manner and talking and twisting to yourself ? ''
Joscelyn 's face , that had grown pale , flamed scarlet again .
She lifted her head proudly .
`` I was trying Aunt Annice 's part in her new play , '' she answered .
`` I have not been doing anything wrong , Grandfather . ''
`` Wrong !
It 's your mother 's blood coming out in you , girl , in spite of all our care !
Where did you get that play ? ''
`` Aunt Annice sent it to me , '' answered Joscelyn , casting a quick glance at the book on the table .
Then , when her grandfather picked it up gingerly , as if he feared contamination , she added quickly , `` Oh , give it to me , please , Grandfather .
Do n't take it away . ''
`` I am going to burn it , '' said Cyrus Morgan sternly .
`` Oh , do n't , Grandfather , '' cried Joscelyn , with a sob in her voice .
`` Do n't burn it , please .
I ... I ... wo n't practise out of it any more .
I 'm sorry I 've displeased you .
Please give me my book . ''
`` No , '' was the stern reply .
`` Go to your room , girl , and take off that rig .
There is to be no more play-acting in my house , remember that . ''
He flung the book into the fire that was burning in the grate .
For the first time in her life Joscelyn flamed out into passionate defiance .
`` You are cruel and unjust , Grandfather .
I have done no wrong ... it is not doing wrong to develop the one gift I have .
It 's the only thing I can do ... and I am going to do it .
My mother was an actress and a good woman .
So is Aunt Annice .
So I mean to be . ''
`` Oh , Josie , Josie , '' said her grandmother in a scared voice .
Her grandfather only repeated sternly , `` Go , take that rig off , girl , and let us hear no more of this . ''
Joscelyn went but she left consternation behind her .
Cyrus and Deborah could not have been more shocked if they had discovered the girl robbing her grandfather 's desk .
They talked the matter over bitterly at the kitchen hearth that night .
`` We have n't been strict enough with the girl , Mother , '' said Cyrus angrily .
`` We 'll have to be stricter if we do n't want to have her disgracing us .
Did you hear how she defied me ?
` So I mean to be , ' she says .
Mother , we 'll have trouble with that girl yet . ''
`` Do n't be too harsh with her , Pa ... it 'll maybe only drive her to worse , '' sobbed Deborah .
`` I ai n't going to be harsh .
What I do is for her own good , you know that , Mother .
Josie is as dear to me as she is to you , but we 've got to be stricter with her . ''
They were .
From that day Josie was watched and distrusted .
She was never permitted to be alone .
There were no more solitary walks .
She felt herself under the surveillance of cold , unsympathetic eyes every moment and her very soul writhed .
Joscelyn Morgan , the high-spirited daughter of high-spirited parents , could not long submit to such treatment .
It might have passed with a child ; to a woman , thrilling with life and conscious power to her very fingertips , it was galling beyond measure .
Joscelyn rebelled , but she did nothing secretly ... that was not her nature .
She wrote to her Aunt Annice , and when she received her reply she went straight and fearlessly to her grandparents with it .
`` Grandfather , this letter is from my aunt .
She wishes me to go and live with her and prepare for the stage .
I told her I wished to do so .
I am going . ''
Cyrus and Deborah looked at her in mute dismay .
`` I know you despise the profession of an actress , '' the girl went on with heightened colour .
`` I am sorry you think so about it because it is the only one open to me .
I must go ... I must . ''
`` Yes , you must , '' said Cyrus cruelly .
`` It 's in your blood ... your bad blood , girl . ''
`` My blood is n't bad , '' cried Joscelyn proudly .
`` My mother was a sweet , true , good woman .
You are unjust , Grandfather .
But I do n't want you to be angry with me .
I love you both and I am very grateful indeed for all your kindness to me .
I wish that you could understand what ... '' `` We understand enough , '' interrupted Cyrus harshly .
`` This is all I have to say .
Go to your play-acting aunt if you want to .
Your grandmother and me wo n't hinder you .
But you 'll come back here no more .
We 'll have nothing further to do with you .
You can choose your own way and walk in it . ''
With this dictum Joscelyn went from Spring Valley .
She clung to Deborah and wept at parting , but Cyrus did not even say goodbye to her .
On the morning of her departure he went away on business and did not return until evening .
* * * * * Joscelyn went on the stage .
Her aunt 's influence and her mother 's fame helped her much .
She missed the hard experiences that come to the unassisted beginner .
But her own genius must have won in any case .
She had all her mother 's gifts , deepened by her inheritance of Morgan intensity and sincerity ... much , too , of the Morgan firmness of will .
When Joscelyn Morgan was twenty-two she was famous over two continents .
When Cyrus Morgan returned home on the evening after his granddaughter 's departure he told his wife that she was never to mention the girl 's name in his hearing again .
Deborah obeyed .
She thought her husband was right , albeit she might in her own heart deplore the necessity of such a decree .
Joscelyn had disgraced them ; could that be forgiven ?
Nevertheless both the old people missed her terribly .
The house seemed to have lost its soul with that vivid , ripely tinted young life .
They got their married daughter 's oldest girl , Pauline , to come and stay with them .
Pauline was a quiet , docile maiden , industrious and commonplace -- just such a girl as they had vainly striven to make of Joscelyn , to whom Pauline had always been held up as a model .
Yet neither Cyrus nor Deborah took to her , and they let her go unregretfully when they found that she wished to return home .
`` She has n't any of Josie 's gimp , '' was old Cyrus 's unspoken fault .
Deborah spoke , but all she said was , `` Polly 's a good girl , Father , only she has n't any snap . ''
Joscelyn wrote to Deborah occasionally , telling her freely of her plans and doings .
If it hurt the girl that no notice was ever taken of her letters she still wrote them .
Deborah read the letters grimly and then left them in Cyrus 's way .
Cyrus would not read them at first ; later on he read them stealthily when Deborah was out of the house .
When Joscelyn began to succeed she sent to the old farmhouse papers and magazines containing her photographs and criticisms of her plays and acting .
Deborah cut them out and kept them in her upper bureau drawer with Joscelyn 's letters .
Once she overlooked one and Cyrus found it when he was kindling the fire .
He got the scissors and cut it out carefully .
A month later Deborah discovered it between the leaves of the family Bible .
But Joscelyn 's name was never mentioned between them , and when other people asked them concerning her their replies were cold and ungracious .
In a way they had relented towards her , but their shame of her remained .
They could never forget that she was an actress .
Once , six years after Joscelyn had left Spring Valley , Cyrus , who was reading a paper by the table , got up with an angry exclamation and stuffed it into the stove , thumping the lid on over it with grim malignity .
`` That fool dunno what he 's talking about , '' was all he would say .
Deborah had her share of curiosity .
The paper was the National Gazette and she knew that their next-door neighbour , James Pennan , took it .
She went over that evening and borrowed it , saying that their own had been burned before she had had time to read the serial in it .
With one exception she read all its columns carefully without finding anything to explain her husband 's anger .
Then she doubtfully plunged into the exception ... a column of `` Stage Notes . ''
Halfway down she came upon an adverse criticism of Joscelyn Morgan and her new play .
It was malicious and vituperative .
Deborah Morgan 's old eyes sparkled dangerously as she read it .
`` I guess somebody is pretty jealous of Josie , '' she muttered .
`` I do n't wonder Pa was riled up .
But I guess she can hold her own .
She 's a Morgan . ''
No long time after this Cyrus took a notion he 'd like a trip to the city .
He 'd like to see the Horse Fair and look up Cousin Hiram Morgan 's folks .
`` Hiram and me used to be great chums , Mother .
And we 're getting kind of mossy , I guess , never stirring out of Spring Valley .
Let 's go and dissipate for a week -- what say ? ''
Deborah agreed readily , albeit of late years she had been much averse to going far from home and had never at any time been very fond of Cousin Hiram 's wife .
Cyrus was as pleased as a child over their trip .
On the second day of their sojourn in the city he slipped away when Deborah had gone shopping with Mrs. Hiram and hurried through the streets to the Green Square Theatre with a hang-dog look .
He bought a ticket apologetically and sneaked in to his seat .
It was a matinee performance , and Joscelyn Morgan was starring in her famous new play .
Cyrus waited for the curtain to rise , feeling as if every one of his Spring Valley neighbours must know where he was and revile him for it .
If Deborah were ever to find out ... but Deborah must never find out !
For the first time in their married life the old man deliberately plotted to deceive his old wife .
He must see his girl Josie just once ; it was a terrible thing that she was an actress , but she was a successful one , nobody could deny that , except fools who yapped in the National Gazette .
The curtain went up and Cyrus rubbed his eyes .
He had certainly braced his nerves to behold some mystery of iniquity ; instead he saw an old kitchen so like his own at home that it bewildered him ; and there , sitting by the cheery wood stove , in homespun gown , with primly braided hair , was Joscelyn -- his girl Josie , as he had seen her a thousand times by his own ingle-side .
The building rang with applause ; one old man pulled out a red bandanna and wiped tears of joy and pride from his eyes .
She had n't changed -- Josie had n't changed .
Play-acting had n't spoiled her -- could n't spoil her .
Was n't she Paul 's daughter !
And all this applause was for her -- for Josie .
Joscelyn 's new play was a homely , pleasant production with rollicking comedy and heart-moving pathos skilfully commingled .
Joscelyn pervaded it all with a convincing simplicity that was really the triumph of art .
Cyrus Morgan listened and exulted in her ; at every burst of applause his eyes gleamed with pride .
He wanted to go on the stage and box the ears of the villain who plotted against her ; he wanted to shake hands with the good woman who stood by her ; he wanted to pay off the mortgage and make Josie happy .
He wiped tears from his eyes in the third act when Josie was turned out of doors and , when the fourth left her a happy , blushing bride , hand in hand with her farmer lover , he could have wept again for joy .
Cyrus Morgan went out into the daylight feeling as if he had awakened from a dream .
At the outer door he came upon Mrs. Hiram and Deborah .
Deborah 's face was stained with tears , and she caught at his hand .
`` Oh , Pa , was n't it splendid -- was n't our girl Josie splendid !
I 'm so proud of her .
Oh , I was bound to hear her .
I was afraid you 'd be mad , so I did n't let on and when I saw you in the seat down there I could n't believe my eyes .
Oh , I 've just been crying the whole time .
Was n't it splendid !
Was n't our girl Josie splendid ? ''
The crowd around looked at the old pair with amused , indulgent curiosity , but they were quite oblivious to their surroundings , even to Mrs. Hiram 's anxiety to decoy them away .
Cyrus Morgan cleared his throat and said , `` It was great , Mother , great .
She took the shine off the other play-actors all right .
I knew that National Gazette man did n't know what he was talking about .
Mother , let us go and see Josie right off .
She 's stopping with her aunt at the Maberly Hotel -- I saw it in the paper this morning .
I 'm going to tell her she was right and we were wrong .
Josie 's beat them all , and I 'm going to tell her so ! ''
When Jack and Jill Took a Hand Jack 's Side of It Jill says I have to begin this story because it was me -- I mean it was I -- who made all the trouble in the first place .
That is so like Jill .
She is such a good hand at forgetting .
Why , it was she who suggested the plot to me .
I should never have thought of it myself -- not that Jill is any smarter than I am , either , but girls are such creatures for planning up mischief and leading other folks into it and then laying the blame on them when things go wrong .
How could I tell Dick would act so like a mule ?
I thought grown-up folks had more sense .
Aunt Tommy was down on me for weeks , while she thought Jill a regular heroine .
But there !
Girls do n't know anything about being fair , and I am determined I will never have anything more to do with them and their love affairs as long as I live .
Jill says I will change my mind when I grow up , but I wo n't .
Still , Jill is a pretty good sort of girl .
I have to scold her sometimes , but if any other chap tried to I would punch his head for him .
I suppose it is time I explained who Dick and Aunt Tommy are .
Dick is our minister .
He has n't been it very long .
He only came a year ago .
I shall never forget how surprised Jill and I were that first Sunday we went to church and saw him .
We had always thought that ministers had to be old .
All the ministers we knew were .
Mr. Grinnell , the one before Dick came , must have been as old as Methuselah .
But Dick was young -- and good-looking .
Jill said she thought it a positive sin for a minister to be so good-looking , it did n't seem Christian ; but that was just because all the ministers we knew happened to be homely so that it did n't appear natural .
Dick was tall and pale and looked as if he had heaps of brains .
He had thick curly brown hair and big dark blue eyes -- Jill said his eyes were like an archangel 's , but how could she tell ?
She never saw an archangel .
I liked his nose .
It was so straight and finished-looking .
Mr. Grinnell had the worst-looking nose you ever saw .
Jill and I used to make poetry about it in church to keep from falling asleep when he preached such awful long sermons .
Dick preached great sermons .
They were so nice and short .
It was such fun to hear him thump the pulpit when he got excited ; and when he got more excited still he would lean over the pulpit , his face all white , and talk so low and solemn that it would just send the most gorgeous thrills through you .
Dick came to Owlwood -- that 's our place ; I hate these explanations -- quite a lot , even before Aunt Tommy came .
He and Father were chums ; they had been in college together and Father said Dick was the best football player he ever knew .
Jill and I soon got acquainted with him and this was another uncanny thing .
We had never thought it possible to get acquainted with a minister .
Jill said she did n't think it proper for a real live minister to be so chummy .
But then Jill was a little jealous because Dick and I , being both men ; were better friends than he and she could be .
He taught me to skate that winter and fence with canes and do long division .
I could never understand long division before Dick came , although I was away on in fractions .
Jill has just been in and says I ought to explain that Dick 's name was n't Dick .
I do wish Jill would mind her own business .
Of course it was n't .
His real name was the Reverend Stephen Richmond , but Jill and I always called him Dick behind his back ; it seemed so jolly and venturesome , somehow , to speak of a minister like that .
Only we had to be careful not to let Father and Mother hear us .
Mother would n't even let Father call Dick `` Stephen '' ; she said it would set a bad example of familiarity to the children .
Mother is an old darling .
She wo n't believe we 're half as bad as we are .
Well , early in May comes Aunt Tommy .
I must explain who Aunt Tommy is or Jill will be at me again .
She is Father 's youngest sister and her real name is Bertha Gordon , but Father has always called her Tommy and she likes it .
Jill and I had never seen Aunt Tommy before , but we took to her from the start because she was so pretty and because she talked to us just as if we were grown up .
She called Jill Elizabeth , and Jill would adore a Hottentot who called her Elizabeth .
Aunt Tommy is the prettiest girl I ever saw .
If Jill is half as good-looking when she gets to be twenty -- she 's only ten now , same age as I am , we 're twins -- I shall be proud of her for a sister .
Aunt Tommy is all white and dimpled .
She has curly red hair and big jolly brown eyes and scrumptious freckles .
I do like freckles in a girl , although Jill goes wild if she thinks she has one on her nose .
When we talked of writing this story Jill said I was n't to say that Aunt Tommy had freckles because it would n't sound romantic .
But I do n't care .
She has freckles and I think they are all right .
We went to church with Aunt Tommy the first Sunday after she came , one on each side of her .
Aunt Tommy is the only girl in the world I 'd walk hand in hand with before people .
She looked fine that day .
She had on a gorgeous dress , all frills and ruffles , and a big white floppy hat .
I was proud of her for an aunt , I can tell you , and I was anxious for Dick to see her .
When he came up to speak to me and Jill after church came out I said , `` Aunt Tommy , this is Mr. Richmond , '' just like the grown-up people say .
Aunt Tommy and Dick shook hands and Dick got as red as anything .
It was funny to see him .
The very next evening he came down to Owlwood .
We had n't expected him until Tuesday , for he never came Monday night before .
That is Father 's night for going to a lodge meeting .
Mother was away this time too .
I met Dick on the porch and took him into the parlour , thinking what a bully talk we could have all alone together , without Jill bothering around .
But in a minute Aunt Tommy came in and she and Dick began to talk , and I just could n't get a word in edgewise .
I got so disgusted I started out , but I do n't believe they ever noticed I was gone .
I liked Aunt Tommy very well , but I did n't think she had any business to monopolize Dick like that when he and I were such old chums .
Outside I came across Jill .
She was sitting all alone in the dark , curled up on the edge of the verandah just where she could see into the parlour through the big glass door .
I sat down beside her , for I wanted sympathy .
`` Dick 's in there talking to Aunt Tommy , '' I said .
`` I do n't see what makes him want to talk to her . ''
`` What a goose you are ! ''
said Jill in that aggravatingly patronizing way of hers .
`` Why , Dick has fallen in love with Aunt Tommy ! ''
Honest , I jumped .
I never was so surprised .
`` How do you know ? ''
I asked .
`` Because I do , '' said Jill .
`` I knew it yesterday at church and I think it is so romantic . ''
`` I do n't see how you can tell , '' I said -- and I did n't .
`` You 'll understand better when you get older , '' said Jill .
Sometimes Jill talks as if she were a hundred years older than I am , instead of being a twin .
And really , sometimes I think she is older .
`` I did n't think ministers ever fell in love , '' I protested .
`` Some do , '' said Jill sagely .
`` Mr. Grinnell would n't ever , I suppose .
But Dick is different .
I 'd like him for a husband myself .
But he 'd be too old for me by the time I grew up , so I suppose I 'll have to let Aunt Tommy have him .
It will be all in the family anyhow -- that is one comfort .
I think Aunt Tommy ought to have me for a flower girl and I 'll wear pink silk clouded over with white chiffon and carry a big bouquet of roses . ''
`` Jill , you take my breath away , '' I said , and she did .
My imagination could n't travel as fast as that .
But after I had thought the idea over a bit I liked it .
It was a good deal like a book ; and , besides , a minister is a respectable thing to have in a family .
`` We must help them all we can , '' said Jill .
`` What can we do ? ''
I asked .
`` We must praise Dick to Aunt Tommy and Aunt Tommy to Dick and we must keep out of the way -- we must n't ever hang around when they want to be alone , '' said Jill .
`` I do n't want to give up being chums with Dick , '' I grumbled .
`` We must be self-sacrificing , '' said Jill .
And that sounded so fine it reconciled me to the attempt .
We sat there and watched Dick and Aunt Tommy for an hour .
I thought they were awfully prim and stiff .
If I 'd been Dick I 'd have gone over and hugged her .
I said so to Jill and Jill was shocked .
She said it would n't be proper when they were n't even engaged .
When Dick went away Aunt Tommy came out to the verandah and discovered us .
She sat down between us and put her arms about us .
Aunt Tommy has such cute ways .
`` I like your minister very much , '' she said .
`` He 's bully , '' I said .
`` He 's as handsome as a prince , '' Jill said .
`` He preaches splendid sermons -- he makes people sit up in church , I can tell you , '' I said .
`` He has a heavenly tenor voice , '' Jill said .
`` He 's got a magnificent muscle , '' I said .
`` He has the most poetical eyes , '' Jill said .
`` He swims like a duck , '' I said .
`` He looks just like a Greek god , '' Jill said .
I 'm sure Jill could n't have known what a Greek god looked like , but I suppose she got the comparison out of some novel .
Jill is always reading novels .
She borrows them from the cook .
Aunt Tommy laughed and said , `` You darlings . ''
For the next three months Jill and I were wild .
It was just like reading a serial story to watch Dick and Aunt Tommy .
One day when Dick came Aunt Tommy was n't quite ready to come down , so Jill and I went in to the parlour to help things along .
We knew we had n't much time , so we began right off .
`` Aunt Tommy is the jolliest girl I know , '' I said .
`` She is as beautiful as a dream , '' Jill said .
`` She can play games as good as a boy , '' I said .
`` She does the most elegant fancy work , '' Jill said .
`` She never gets mad , '' I said .
`` She plays and sings divinely , '' Jill said .
`` She can cook awfully good things , '' I said , for I was beginning to run short of compliments .
Jill was horrified ; she said afterwards that it was n't a bit romantic .
But I do n't care -- I believe Dick liked it , for he smiled with his eyes I just as he always does when he 's pleased .
Girls do n't understand everything .
* * * * * But at the end of three months we began to get anxious .
Things were going so slow .
Dick and Aunt Tommy did n't seem a bit further ahead than at first .
Jill said it was because Aunt Tommy did n't encourage Dick enough .
`` I do wish we could hurry them up a little , '' she said .
`` At this rate they will never be married this year and by next I 'll be too big to be a flower girl .
I 'm stretching out horribly as it is .
Mother has had to let down my frocks again . ''
`` I wish they would get engaged and have done with it , '' I said .
`` My mind would be at rest then .
It 's all Dick 's fault .
Why does n't he ask Aunt Tommy to marry him ?
What 's making him so slow about it ?
If I wanted a girl to marry me -- but I would n't ever -- I 'd tell her so right spang off . ''
`` I suppose ministers have to be more dignified , '' said Jill , `` but three months ought to be enough time for anyone .
And Aunt Tommy is only going to be here another month .
If Dick could be made a little jealous it would hurry him up .
And he could be made jealous if you had any spunk about you . ''
`` I guess I 've got more spunk than you have , '' I said .
`` The trouble with Dick is this , '' said Jill .
`` There is nobody else coming to see Aunt Tommy and he thinks he is sure of her .
If you could tell him something different it would stir him up . ''
`` Are you sure it would ? ''
I asked .
`` It always does in novels , '' said Jill .
And that settled it , of course .
Jill and I fixed up what I was to say and Jill made me say it over and over again to be sure I had it right .
I told her -- sarcastically -- that she 'd better say it herself and then it would be done properly .
Jill said she would if it were Aunt Tommy , but when it was Dick it was better for a man to do it .
So of course I agreed .
I did n't know when I would have a chance to stir Dick up , but Providence -- so Jill said -- favoured us .
Aunt Tommy did n't expect Dick down the next night , so she and Father and Mother all went away somewhere .
Dick came after all , and Jill sent me into the parlour to tell him .
He was standing before the mantel looking at Aunt Tommy 's picture .
There was such an adoring look in his eyes .
I could see it quite plain in the mirror before him .
I practised that look a lot before my own glass after that -- because I thought it might come in handy some time , you know -- but I guess I could n't have got it just right because when I tried it on Jill she asked me if I had a pain .
`` Well , Jack , old man , '' said Dick , sitting down on the sofa .
I sat down before him .
`` Aunt Tommy is out , '' I said , to get the worst over .
`` I guess you like Aunt Tommy pretty well , do n't you , Mr. Richmond ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Dick softly .
`` So do other men , '' I said -- mysterious , as Jill had ordered me .
Dick thumped one of the sofa pillows .
`` Yes , I suppose so , '' he said .
`` There 's a man in New York who just worships Aunt Tommy , '' I said .
`` He writes her most every day and sends her books and music and elegant presents .
I guess she 's pretty fond of him too .
She keeps his photograph on her bedroom table and I 've seen her kissing it . ''
I stopped there , not because I had said all I had to say , but because Dick 's face scared me -- honest , it did .
It had all gone white , like it does in the pulpit sometimes when he is tremendously in earnest , only ten times worse .
But all he said was , `` Is your Aunt Bertha engaged to this -- this man ? ''
`` Not exactly engaged , '' I said , `` but I guess anybody else who wants to marry her will have to reckon with him . ''
Dick got up .
`` I think I wo n't wait this evening , '' he said .
`` I wish you 'd stay and have a talk with me , '' I said .
`` I have n't had a talk with you for ages and I have a million things to tell you . ''
Dick smiled as if it hurt him to smile .
`` I ca n't tonight , Jacky .
Some other time we 'll have a good powwow , old chap . ''
He took his hat and went out .
Then Jill came flying in to hear all about it .
I told her as well as I could , but she was n't satisfied .
If Dick took it so quietly , she declared , I could n't have made it strong enough .
`` If you had seen Dick 's face , '' I said , `` you would have thought I made it plenty strong .
And I 'd like to know what Aunt Tommy will say to all this when she finds out . ''
`` Well , you did n't tell a thing but what was true , '' said Jill .
The next evening was Dick 's regular night for coming , but he did n't come , although Jill and I went down the lane a dozen times to watch for him .
The night after that was prayer-meeting night .
Dick had always walked home with Aunt Tommy and us , but that night he did n't .
He only just bowed and smiled as he passed us in the porch .
Aunt Tommy hardly spoke all the way home , only just held tight to Jill 's and my hands .
But after we got home she seemed in great spirits and laughed and chatted with Father and Mother .
`` What does this mean ? ''
asked Jill , grabbing me in the hall on our way to bed .
`` You 'd better get another novel from the cook and find out , '' I said grouchily .
I was disgusted with things in general and Dick in particular .
The three weeks that followed were awful .
Dick never came near Owlwood .
Jill and I fought every day , we were so cross and disappointed .
Nothing had come out right , and Jill blamed it all on me .
She said I must have made it too strong .
There was no fun in anything , not even in going to church .
Dick hardly thumped the pulpit at all and when he did it was only a measly little thump .
But Aunt Tommy did n't seem to worry any .
She sang and laughed and joked from morning to night .
`` She does n't mind Dick 's making an ass of himself , anyway , that 's one consolation , '' I said to Jill .
`` She is breaking her heart about it , '' said Jill , `` and that 's your consolation ! ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' I said .
`` What makes you think so ? ''
`` She cries every night , '' said Jill .
`` I can tell by the look of her eyes in the morning . ''
`` She does n't look half as woebegone over it as you do , '' I said .
`` If I had her reason for looking woebegone I would n't look it either , '' said Jill .
I asked her to explain her meaning , but she only said that little boys could n't understand those things .
Things went on like this for another week .
Then they reached -- so Jill says -- a climax .
If Jill knows what that means I do n't .
But Pinky Carewe was the climax .
Pinky 's name is James , but Jill and I always called him Pinky because we could n't bear him .
He took to calling at Owlwood and one evening he took Aunt Tommy out driving .
Then Jill came to me .
`` Something has got to be done , '' she said resolutely .
`` I am not going to have Pinky Carewe for an Uncle Tommy and that is all there is about it .
You must go straight to Dick and tell him the truth about the New York man . ''
I looked at Jill to see if she were in earnest .
When I saw that she was I said , `` I would n't take all the gems of Golconda and go and tell Dick that I 'd been hoaxing him .
You can do it yourself , Jill Gordon . ''
`` You did n't tell him anything that was n't true , '' said Jill .
`` I do n't know how a minister might look upon it , '' I said .
`` Anyway , I wo n't go . ''
`` Then I suppose I 've got to , '' said Jill very dolefully .
`` Yes , you 'll have to , '' I said .
And this finishes my part of the story , and Jill is going to tell the rest .
But you need n't believe everything she says about me in it .
Jill 's Side of It Jacky has made a fearful muddle of his part , but I suppose I shall just have to let it go .
You could n't expect much better of a boy .
But I am determined to re-describe Aunt Tommy , for the way Jacky has done it is just disgraceful .
I know exactly how to do it , the way it is always done in stories .
Aunt Tommy is divinely beautiful .
Her magnificent wealth of burnished auburn hair flows back in amethystine waves from her sun-kissed brow .
Her eyes are gloriously dark and deep , like midnight lakes mirroring the stars of heaven ; her features are like sculptured marble and her mouth is like a trembling , curving Cupid 's bow -LRB- this is a classical allusion -RRB- luscious and glowing as a dewy rose .
Her creamy skin is as fair and flawless as the inner petals of a white lily .
-LRB- She may have a weeny teeny freckle or two in summer , but you 'd never notice . -RRB-
Her slender form is matchless in its symmetry and her voice is like the ripple of a woodland brook .
There , I 'm sure that 's ever so much better than Jacky 's description , and now I can proceed with a clear conscience .
Well , I did n't like the idea of going and explaining to Dick very much , but it had to be done unless I wanted to run the risk of having Pinky Carewe in the family .
So I went the next morning .
I put on my very prettiest pink organdie dress and did my hair the new way , which is very becoming to me .
When you are going to have an important interview with a man it is always well to look your very best .
I put on my big hat with the wreath of pink roses that Aunt Tommy had brought me from New York and took my spandy ruffled parasol .
`` With your shield or upon it , Jill , '' said Jacky when I started .
-LRB- This is another classical allusion . -RRB-
I went straight up the hill and down the road to the manse where Dick lived with his old housekeeper , Mrs. Dodge .
She came to the door when I knocked and I said , very politely , `` Can I see the Reverend Stephen Richmond , if you please ? ''
Mrs. Dodge went upstairs and came right back saying would I please go up to the study .
Up I went , my heart in my mouth , I can tell you , and there was Dick among his books , looking so pale and sorrowful and interesting , for all the world like Lord Algernon Francis in the splendid serial in the paper cook took .
There was a Madonna on his desk that looked just like Aunt Tommy .
`` Good evening , Miss Elizabeth , '' said Dick , just as if I were grown up , you know .
`` Wo n't you sit down ?
Try that green velvet chair .
I am sure it was created for a pink dress and unfortunately neither Mrs. Dodge nor I possess one .
How are all your people ? ''
`` We are all pretty well ; thank you , '' I said , `` except Aunt Tommy .
She -- '' I was going to say , `` She cries every night after she goes to bed , '' but I remembered just in time that if I were in Aunt Tommy 's place I would n't want a man to know I cried about him even if I did .
So I said instead '' -- she has got a cold . ''
`` Ah , indeed , I am sorry to hear it , '' said Dick , politely but coldly , as if it were part of his duty as a minister to be sorry for anybody who had a cold , but as if , apart from that , it was not a concern of his if Aunt Tommy had galloping consumption .
`` And Jack and I are terribly harrowed up in our minds , '' I went on .
`` That is what I 've come up to see you about . ''
`` Well , tell me all about it , '' said Dick .
`` I 'm afraid to , '' I said .
`` I know you 'll be cross even if you are a minister .
It 's about what Jack told you about that man in New York and Aunt Tommy . ''
Dick turned as red as fire .
`` I 'd rather not discuss your Aunt Bertha 's affairs , '' he said stiffly .
`` You must hear this , '' I cried , feeling thankful that Jacky had n't come after all , for he 'd never have got any further ahead after that snub .
`` It 's all a mistake .
There is a man in New York and he just worships Aunt Tommy and she just adores him .
But he 's seventy years old and he 's her Uncle Matthew who brought her up ever since her father died and you 've heard her talking about him a hundred times .
That 's all , cross my heart solemn and true . ''
You never saw anything like Dick 's face when I stopped .
It looked just like a sunrise .
But he said slowly , `` Why did Jacky tell me such a -- tell me it in such a way ? ''
`` We wanted to make you jealous , '' I said .
`` I put Jacky up to it . ''
`` I did n't think it was in either of you to do such a thing , '' said Dick reproachfully .
`` Oh , Dick , '' I cried -- fancy my calling him Dick right to his face !
Jacky will never believe I really did it .
He says I would never have dared .
But it was n't daring at all , it was just forgetting .
`` Oh , Dick , we did n't mean any harm .
We thought you were n't getting on fast enough and we wanted to stir you up like they do in books .
We thought if we made you jealous it would work all right .
We did n't mean any harm .
Oh , please forgive us ! ''
I was just ready to cry .
But that dear Dick leaned over the table and patted my hand .
`` There , there , it 's all right .
I understand and of course I forgive you .
Do n't cry , sweetheart . ''
The way Dick said `` sweetheart '' was perfectly lovely .
I envied Aunt Tommy , and I wanted to keep on crying so that he would go on comforting me .
`` And you 'll come back to see Aunt Tommy again ? ''
I said .
Dick 's face clouded over ; he got up and walked around the room several times before he said a word .
Then he came and sat down beside me and explained it all to me , just as if I were grown up .
`` Sweetheart , we 'll talk this all out .
You see , it is this way .
Your Aunt Bertha is the sweetest woman in the world .
But I 'm only a poor minister and I have no right to ask her to share my life of hard work and self-denial .
And even if I dared I know she would n't do it .
She does n't care anything for me except as a friend .
I never meant to tell her I cared for her but I could n't help going to Owlwood , even though I knew it was a weakness on my part .
So now that I 'm out of the habit of going I think it would be wisest to stay out .
It hurts dreadfully , but it would hurt worse after a while .
Do n't you agree with me , Miss Elizabeth ? ''
I thought hard and fast .
If I were in Aunt Tommy 's place I might n't want a man to know I cried about him , but I was quite sure I 'd rather have him know than have him stay away because he did n't know .
So I spoke right up .
`` No , I do n't , Mr. Richmond ; Aunt Tommy does care -- you just ask her .
She cries every blessed night because you never come to Owlwood . ''
`` Oh , Elizabeth ! ''
said Dick .
He got up and stalked about the room again .
`` You 'll come back ? ''
I said .
`` Yes , '' he answered .
I drew a long breath .
It was such a responsibility off my mind .
`` Then you 'd better come down with me right off , '' I said , `` for Pinky Carewe had her out driving last night and I want a stop put to that as soon as possible .
Even if he is rich he 's a perfect pig . ''
Dick got his hat and came .
We walked up the road in lovely creamy yellow twilight and I was , oh , so happy .
`` Is n't it just like a novel ? ''
I said .
`` I am afraid , Elizabeth , '' said Dick preachily , `` that you read too many novels , and not the right kind , either .
Some of these days I am going to ask you to promise me that you will read no more books except those your mother and I pick out for you . ''
You do n't know how squelched I felt .
And I knew I would have to promise , too , for Dick can make me do anything he likes .
When we got to Owlwood I left Dick in the parlour and flew up to Aunt Tommy 's room .
I found her all scrunched up on her bed in the dark with her face in the pillows .
`` Aunt Tommy , Dick is down in the parlour and he wants to see you , '' I said .
Did n't Aunt Tommy fly up , though !
`` Oh , Jill -- but I 'm not fit to be seen -- tell him I 'll be down in a few minutes . ''
I knew Aunt Tommy wanted to fix her hair and dab rose-water on her eyes , so I trotted meekly down and told Dick .
Then I flew out to Jacky and dragged him around to the glass door .
It was all hung over with vines and a wee bit ajar so that we could see and hear everything that went on .
Jacky said it was only sneaks that listened -- but he did n't say it until next day .
At the time he listened just as hard as I did .
I did n't care if it was mean .
I just had to listen .
I was perfectly wild to hear how a man would propose and how a girl would accept and it was too good a chance to lose .
Presently in sweeps Aunt Tommy , in an elegant dress , not a hair out of place .
She looked perfectly sweet , only her nose was a little red .
Dick looked at her for just a moment , then he stepped forward and took her right into his arms .
Aunt Tommy drew back her head for just a second as if she were going to crush him in the dust , and then she just all kind of crumpled up and her face went down on his shoulder .
`` Oh -- Bertha -- I -- love -- you -- I -- love you , '' he said , just like that , all quick and jerky .
`` You -- you have taken a queer way of showing it , '' said Aunt Tommy , all muffled .
`` I -- I -- was led to believe that there was another man -- whom you cared for -- and I thought you were only trifling with me .
So I sulked like a jealous fool .
Bertha , darling , you do love me a little , do n't you ? ''
Aunt Tommy lifted her head and stuck up her mouth and he kissed her .
And there it was , all over , and they were engaged as quick as that , mind you .
He did n't even go down on his knees .
There was nothing romantic about it and I was never so disgusted in my life .
When I grow up and anybody proposes to me he will have to be a good deal more flowery and eloquent than that , I can tell you , if he wants me to listen to him .
I left Jacky peeking still and I went to bed .
After a long time Aunt Tommy came up to my room and sat down on my bed in the moonlight .
`` You dear blessed Elizabeth ! ''
she said .
`` It 's all right then , is it ? ''
I asked .
`` Yes , it is all right , thanks to you , dearie .
We are to be married in October and somebody must be my little flower girl . ''
`` I think Dick will make a splendid husband , '' I said .
`` But Aunt Tommy , you must n't be too hard on Jacky .
He only wanted to help things along , and it was I who put him up it in the first place . ''
`` You have atoned by going and confessing , '' said Aunt Tommy with a hug , `` Jacky had no business to put that off on you .
I 'll forgive him , of course , but I 'll punish him by not letting him know that I will for a little while .
Then I 'll ask him to be a page at my wedding . ''
Well , the wedding came off last week .
It was a perfectly gorgeous affair .
Aunt Tommy 's dress was a dream -- and so was mine , all pink silk and chiffon and carnations .
Jacky made a magnificent page too , in a suit of white velvet .
The wedding cake was four stories high , and Dick looked perfectly handsome .
He kissed me too , right after he kissed Aunt Tommy .
So everything turned out all right , and I believe Dick would never have dared to speak up if we had n't helped things along .
But Jacky and I have decided that we will never meddle in an affair of the kind again .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories,_1907_to_1908.txt.out
A Millionaire 's Proposal Thrush Hill , Oct. 5 , 18 -- .
It is all settled at last , and in another week I shall have left Thrush Hill .
I am a little bit sorry and a great bit glad .
I am going to Montreal to spend the winter with Alicia .
Alicia -- it used to be plain Alice when she lived at Thrush Hill and made her own dresses and trimmed her own hats -- is my half-sister .
She is eight years older than I am .
We are both orphans , and Aunt Elizabeth brought us up here at Thrush Hill , the most delightful old country place in the world , half smothered in big willows and poplars , every one of which I have climbed in the early tomboy days of gingham pinafores and sun-bonnets .
When Alicia was eighteen she married Roger Gresham , a man of forty .
The world said that she married him for his money .
I dare say she did .
Alicia was tired of poverty .
I do n't blame her .
Very likely I shall do the same thing one of these days , if I get the chance -- for I too am tired of poverty .
When Alicia went to Montreal she wanted to take me with her , but I wanted to be outdoors , romping in the hay or running wild in the woods with Jack .
Jack Willoughby -- Dr. John H. Willoughby , it reads on his office door -- was the son of our nearest neighbour .
We were chums always , and when he went away to college I was heartbroken .
The vacations were the only joy of my life then .
I do n't know just when I began to notice a change in Jack , but when he came home two years ago , a full-fledged M.D. -- a great , tall , broad-shouldered fellow , with the sweetest moustache , and lovely thick black hair , just made for poking one 's fingers through -- I realized it to the full .
Jack was grown up .
The dear old days of bird-nesting and nutting and coasting and fishing and general delightful goings-on were over forever .
I was sorry at first .
I wanted `` Jack . ''
`` Dr. Willoughby '' seemed too distinguished and far away .
I suppose he found a change in me , too .
I had put on long skirts and wore my hair up .
I had also found out that I had a complexion , and that sunburn was not becoming .
I honestly thought I looked pretty , but Jack surveyed me with decided disapprobation .
`` What have you done to yourself ?
You do n't look like the same girl .
I 'd never know you in that rig-out , with all those flippery-trippery curls all over your head .
Why do n't you comb your hair straight back , and let it hang in a braided tail , like you used to ? ''
This did n't suit me at all .
When I expect a compliment and get something quite different I always get snippy .
So I said , with what I intended to be crushing dignity , `` that I supposed I was n't the same girl ; I had grown up , and if he did n't like my curls he need n't look at them .
For my part , I thought them infinitely preferable to that horrid , conceited-looking moustache he had grown . ''
`` I 'll shave it off if it does n't suit you , '' said Jack amiably .
Jack is always so provokingly good-humoured .
When you 've taken pains and put yourself out -- even to the extent of fibbing about a moustache -- to exasperate a person , there is nothing more annoying than to have him keep perfectly angelic .
But after a while Jack and I adjusted ourselves to the change in each other and became very good friends again .
It was quite a different friendship from the old , but it was very pleasant .
Yes , it was ; I will admit that much .
I was provoked at Jack 's determination to settle down for life in Valleyfield , a horrible , humdrum , little country village .
`` You 'll never make your fortune there , Jack , '' I said spitefully .
`` You 'll just be a poor , struggling country doctor all your life , and you 'll be grey at forty . ''
`` I do n't expect to make a fortune , Kitty , '' said Jack quietly .
`` Do you think that is the one desirable thing ?
I shall never be a rich man .
But riches are not the only thing that makes life pleasant . ''
`` Well , I think they have a good deal to do with it , anyhow , '' I retorted .
`` It 's all very well to pretend to despise wealth , but it 's generally a case of sour grapes .
I will own up honestly that I 'd love to be rich . ''
It always seems to make Jack blue and grumpy when I talk like that .
I suppose that is one reason why he never asked me to settle down in life as a country doctor 's wife .
Another was , no doubt , that I always nipped his sentimental sproutings religiously in the bud .
Three weeks ago Alicia wrote to me , asking me to spend the winter with her .
Her letters always make me just gasp with longing for the life they describe .
Jack 's face , when I told him about it , was so woebegone that I felt a stab of remorse , even in the heyday of my delight .
`` Do you really mean it , Kitty ?
Are you going away to leave me ? ''
`` You wo n't miss me much , '' I said flippantly -- I had a creepy , crawly presentiment that a scene of some kind was threatening -- `` and I 'm awfully tired of Thrush Hill and country life , Jack .
I suppose it is horribly ungrateful of me to say so , but it is the truth . ''
`` I shall miss you , '' he said soberly .
Somehow he had my hands in his .
How did he ever get them ?
I was sure I had them safely tucked out of harm 's way behind me .
`` You know , Kitty , that I love you .
I am a poor man -- perhaps I may never be anything else -- and this may seem to you very presumptuous .
But I can not let you go like this .
Will you be my wife , dear ? ''
Was n't it horribly straightforward and direct ?
So like Jack !
I tried to pull my hands away , but he held them fast .
There was nothing to do but answer him .
That `` no '' I had determined to say must be said , but , oh !
how woefully it did stick in my throat !
And I honestly believe that by the time I got it out it would have been transformed into a `` yes , '' in spite of me , had it not been for a certain paragraph in Alicia 's letter which came providentially to my mind : Not to flatter you , Katherine , you are a beauty , my dear -- if your photo is to be trusted .
If you have not discovered that fact before -- how should you , indeed , in a place like Thrush Hill ?
-- you soon will in Montreal .
With your face and figure you will make a sensation .
There is to be a nephew of the Sinclairs here this winter .
He is an American , immensely wealthy , and will be the catch of the season .
A word to the wise , etc. .
Do n't get into any foolish entanglement down there .
I have heard some gossip of you and our old playfellow , Jack Willoughby .
I hope it is nothing but gossip .
You can do better than that , Katherine .
That settled Jack 's fate , if there ever had been any doubt .
`` Do n't talk like that , Jack , '' I said hurriedly .
`` It is all nonsense .
I think a great deal of you as a friend and -- and -- all that , you know .
But I can never marry you . ''
`` Are you sure , Kitty ? ''
said Jack earnestly .
`` Do n't you care for me at all ? ''
It was horrid of Jack to ask that question !
`` No , '' I said miserably , `` not -- not in that way , Jack .
Oh , do n't ever say anything like this to me again . ''
He let go of my hands then , white to the lips .
`` Oh , do n't look like that , Jack , '' I entreated .
`` I ca n't help it , '' he said in a low voice .
`` But I wo n't bother you again , dear .
It was foolish of me to expect -- to hope for anything of the sort .
You are a thousand times too good for me , I know . ''
`` Oh , indeed I 'm not , Jack , '' I protested .
`` If you knew how horrid I am , really , you 'd be glad and thankful for your escape .
Oh , Jack , I wish people never grew up . ''
Jack smiled sadly .
`` Do n't feel badly over this , Kitty .
It is n't your fault .
Good night , dear . ''
He turned my face up and kissed me squarely on the mouth .
He had never kissed me since the summer before he went away to college .
Somehow it did n't seem a bit the same as it used to ; it was -- nicer now .
After he went away I came upstairs and had a good , comfortable howl .
Then I buried the whole affair decently .
I am not going to think of it any more .
I shall always have the highest esteem for Jack , and I hope he will soon find some nice girl who will make him happy .
Mary Carter would jump at him , I know .
To be sure , she is as homely as she can be and live .
But , then , Jack is always telling me how little he cares for beauty , so I have no doubt she will suit him admirably .
As for myself -- well , I am ambitious .
I do n't suppose my ambition is a very lofty one , but such as it is I mean to hunt it down .
Come .
Let me put it down in black and white , once for all , and see how it looks : I mean to marry the rich nephew of the Sinclairs .
There !
It is out , and I feel better .
How mercenary and awful it looks written out in cold blood like that .
I would n't have Jack or Aunt Elizabeth -- dear , unworldly old soul -- see it for the world .
But I would n't mind Alicia .
Poor dear Jack !
* * * * * Montreal , Dec. 16 , 18 -- .
This is a nice way to keep a journal .
But the days when I could write regularly are gone by .
That was when I was at Thrush Hill .
I am having a simply divine time .
How in the world did I ever contrive to live at Thrush Hill ?
To be sure , I felt badly enough that day in October when I left it .
When the train left Valleyfield I just cried like a baby .
Alicia and Roger welcomed me very heartily , and after the first week of homesickness -- I shiver yet when I think of it -- was over , I settled down to my new life as if I had been born to it .
Alicia has a magnificent home and everything heart could wish for -- jewels , carriages , servants , opera boxes , and social position .
Roger is a model husband apparently .
I must also admit that he is a model brother-in-law .
I could feel Alicia looking me over critically the moment we met .
I trembled with suspense , but I was soon relieved .
`` Do you know , Katherine , I am glad to see that your photograph did n't flatter you .
Photographs so often do , I am positively surprised at the way you have developed , my dear ; you used to be such a scrawny little brown thing .
By the way , I hope there is nothing between you and Jack Willoughby ? ''
`` No , of course not , '' I answered hurriedly .
I had intended to tell Alicia all about Jack , but when it came to the point I could n't .
`` I am glad of that , '' said Alicia , with a relieved air .
`` Of course , I 've no doubt Jack is a good fellow enough .
He was a nice boy .
But he would not be a suitable husband for you , Katherine . ''
I knew that very well .
That was just why I had refused him .
But it made me wince to hear Alicia say it .
I instantly froze up -- Alicia says dignity is becoming to me -- and Jack 's name has never been mentioned between us since .
I made my bow to society at an `` At Home '' which Alicia gave for that purpose .
She drilled me well beforehand , and I think I acquitted myself decently .
Charlie Vankleek , whose verdict makes or mars every debutante in his set , has approved of me .
He called me a beauty , and everybody now believes that I am one , and greets me accordingly .
I met Gus Sinclair at Mrs. Brompton 's dinner .
Alicia declares it was a case of love at first sight .
If so , I must confess that it was all on one side .
Mr. Sinclair is undeniably ugly -- even Alicia has to admit that -- and ca n't hold a candle to Jack in point of looks , for Jack , poor boy , was handsome , if he were nothing else .
But , as Alicia does not fail to remind me , Mr. Sinclair 's homeliness is well gilded .
Apart from his appearance , I really liked him very much .
He is a gentlemanly little fellow -- his head reaches about to my shoulder -- cultured and travelled , and can talk splendidly , which Jack never could .
He took me into dinner at Mrs. Brompton 's , and was very attentive .
You may imagine how many angelic glances I received from the other candidates for his favour .
Since then I have been having the gayest time imaginable .
Dances , dinners , luncheons , afternoon teas , `` functions '' to no end , and all delightful .
Aunt Elizabeth writes to me , but I have never heard a word from Jack .
He seems to have forgotten my existence completely .
No doubt he has consoled himself with Mary Carter .
Well , that is all for the best , but I must say I did not think Jack could have forgotten me so soon or so absolutely .
Of course it does not make the least difference to me .
The Sinclairs and the Bromptons and the Curries are to dine here tonight .
I can see myself reflected in the long mirror before me , and I really think my appearance will satisfy even Gus Sinclair 's critical eye .
I am pale , as usual , I never have any colour .
That used to be one of Jack 's grievances .
He likes pink and white milkmaidish girls .
My `` magnificent pallor '' did n't suit him at all .
But , what is more to the purpose , it suits Gus Sinclair .
He admires the statuesque style .
* * * * * Montreal , Jan. 20 , 18 -- .
Here it is a whole month since my last entry .
I am sitting here decked out in `` gloss of satin and glimmer of pearls '' for Mrs. Currie 's dance .
These few minutes , after I emerge from the hands of my maid and before the carriage is announced , are almost the only ones I ever have to myself .
I am having a good time still .
Somehow , though , it is n't as exciting as it used to be .
I 'm afraid I 'm very changeable .
I believe I must be homesick .
I 'd love to get a glimpse of dear old Thrush Hill and Aunt Elizabeth , and J -- but , no !
I will not write that .
Mr. Sinclair has not spoken yet , but there is no doubt that he soon will .
Of course , I shall accept him when he does , and I coolly told Alicia so when she just as coolly asked me what I meant to do .
`` Certainly , I shall marry him , '' I said crossly , for the subject always irritates me .
`` Have n't I been laying myself out all winter to catch him ?
That is the bold , naked truth , and ugly enough it is .
My dearly beloved sister , I mean to accept Mr. Sinclair , without any hesitation , whenever I get the chance . ''
`` I give you credit for more sense than to dream of doing anything else , '' said Alicia in relieved tones .
`` Katherine , you are a very lucky girl . ''
`` Because I am going to marry a rich man for his money ? ''
I said coldly .
Sometimes I get snippy with Alicia these days .
`` No , '' said my half-sister in an exasperated way .
`` Why will you persist in speaking in that way ?
You are very provoking .
It is not likely I would wish to see you throw yourself away on a poor man , and I 'm sure you must like Gus . ''
`` Oh , yes , I like him well enough , '' I said listlessly .
`` To be sure , I did think once , in my salad days , that liking was n't quite all in an affair of this kind .
I was absurd enough to imagine that love had something to do with it . ''
`` Do n't talk so nonsensically , '' said Alicia sharply .
`` Love !
Well , of course , you ought to love your husband , and you will .
He loves you enough , at all events . ''
`` Alicia , '' I said earnestly , looking her straight in the face and speaking bluntly enough to have satisfied even Jack 's love of straightforwardness , `` you married for money and position , so people say .
Are you happy ? ''
For the first time that I remembered , Alicia blushed .
She was very angry .
`` Yes , I did marry for money , '' she said sharply , `` and I do n't regret it .
Thank heaven , I never was a fool . ''
`` Do n't be vexed , Alicia , '' I entreated .
`` I only asked because -- well , it is no matter . ''
* * * * * Montreal , Jan. 25 , 18 -- .
It is bedtime , but I am too excited and happy and miserable to sleep .
Jack has been here -- dear old Jack !
How glad I was to see him .
His coming was so unexpected .
I was sitting alone in my room this afternoon -- I believe I was moping -- when Bessie brought up his card .
I gave it one rapturous look and tore downstairs , passing Alicia in the hall like a whirlwind , and burst into the drawing-room in a most undignified way .
`` Jack ! ''
I cried , holding out both hands to him in welcome .
There he was , just the same old Jack , with his splendid big shoulders and his lovely brown eyes .
And his necktie was crooked , too ; as soon as I could get my hands free I put them up and straightened it out for him .
How nice and old-timey that was !
`` So you are glad to see me , Kitty ? ''
he said as he squeezed my hands in his big strong paws . ''
` Deed and ` deed I am , Jack .
I thought you had forgotten me altogether .
And I 've been so homesick and so -- so everything , '' I said incoherently .
`` And , oh , Jack , I 've so many questions to ask I do n't know where to begin .
Tell me all the Thrush Hill and Valleyfield news , tell me everything that has happened since I left .
How many people have you killed off ?
And , oh , why did n't you come to see me before ? ''
`` I did n't think I should be wanted , Kitty , '' Jack answered quietly .
`` You seemed to be so absorbed in your new life that old friends and interests were crowded out . ''
`` So I was at first , '' I answered penitently .
`` I was dazzled , you know .
The glare was too much for my Thrush Hill brown .
But it 's different now .
How did you happen to come , Jack ? ''
`` I had to come to Montreal on business , and I thought it would be too bad if I went back without coming to see what they had been doing in Vanity Fair to my little playmate . ''
`` Well , what do you think they have been doing ? ''
I asked saucily .
I had on a particularly fetching gown and knew I was looking my best .
Jack , however , looked me over with his head on one side .
`` Well , I do n't know , Kitty , '' he said slowly .
`` That is a stunning sort of dress you have on -- not so pretty , though , as that old blue muslin you used to wear last summer -- and your hair is pretty good .
But you look rather disdainful and , after all , I believe I prefer Thrush Hill Kitty . ''
How like Jack that was .
He never thought me really pretty , and he is too honest to pretend he does .
But I did n't care .
I just laughed , and we sat down together and had a long , delightful , chummy talk .
Jack told me all the Valleyfield gossip , not forgetting to mention that Mary Carter was going to be married to a minister in June .
Jack did n't seem to mind it a bit , so I guess he could n't have been particularly interested in Mary .
In due time Alicia sailed in .
I suppose she had found out from Bessie who my caller was , and felt rather worried over the length of our tte--tte .
She greeted Jack very graciously , but with a certain polite condescension of which she is past mistress .
I am sure Jack felt it , for , as soon as he decently could , he got up to go .
Alicia asked him to remain to dinner .
`` We are having a few friends to dine with us , but it is quite an informal affair , '' she said sweetly .
I felt that Jack glanced at me for the fraction of a second .
But I remembered that Gus Sinclair was coming too , and I did not look at him .
Then he declined quietly .
He had a business engagement , he said .
I suppose Alicia had noticed that look at me , for she showed her claws .
`` Do n't forget to call any time you are in Montreal , '' she said more sweetly than ever .
`` I am sure Katherine will always be glad to see any of her old friends , although some of her new ones are proving very absorbing -- one , in especial .
Do n't blush , Katherine , I am sure Mr. Willoughby wo n't tell any tales out of school to your old Valleyfield friends . ''
I was not blushing , and I was furious .
It was really too bad of Alicia , although I do n't see why I need have cared .
Alicia kept her eye on us both until Jack was fairly gone .
Then she remarked in the patronizing tone which I detest : `` Really , Katherine , Jack Willoughby has developed into quite a passable-looking fellow , although he is rather shabby .
But I suppose he is poor . ''
`` Yes , '' I answered curtly , `` he is poor , in everything except youth and manhood and goodness and truth !
But I suppose those do n't count for anything . ''
Whereupon Alicia lifted her eyebrows and looked me over .
Just at dusk a box arrived with Jack 's compliments .
It was full of lovely white carnations , and must have cost the extravagant fellow more than he has any business to waste on flowers .
I was beast enough to put them on when I went down to listen to another man 's love-making .
This evening I sparkled and scintillated with unusual brilliancy , for Jack 's visit and my consequent crossing of swords with Alicia had produced a certain elation of spirits .
When Gus Sinclair was leaving he asked if he might see me alone tomorrow afternoon .
I knew what that meant , and a cold shiver went up and down my backbone .
But I looked down at him -- spick-and-span and glossy -- his neckties are never crooked -- and said , yes , he might come at three o'clock .
Alicia had noticed our aside -- when did anything ever escape her ?
-- and when he was gone she asked , significantly , what secret he had been telling me .
`` He wants to see me alone tomorrow afternoon .
I suppose you know what that means , Alicia ? ''
`` Ah , '' purred Alicia , `` I congratulate you , my dear . ''
`` Are n't your congratulations a little premature ? ''
I asked coldly .
`` I have n't accepted him yet . ''
`` But you will ? ''
`` Oh , certainly .
Is n't it what we 've schemed and angled for ?
I 'm very well satisfied . ''
And so I am .
But I wish it had n't come so soon after Jack 's visit , because I feel rather upset yet .
Of course I like Gus Sinclair very much , and I am sure I shall be very fond of him .
Well , I must go to bed now and get my beauty sleep .
I do n't want to be haggard and hollow-eyed at that important interview tomorrow -- an interview that will decide my destiny .
* * * * * Thrush Hill , May 6 , 18 -- .
Well , it did decide it , but not exactly in the way I anticipated .
I can look back on the whole affair quite calmly now , but I would n't live it over again for all the wealth of Ind. .
That day when Gus Sinclair came I was all ready for him .
I had put on my very prettiest new gown to do honour to the occasion , and Alicia smilingly assured me I was looking very well .
`` And so cool and composed .
Will you be able to keep that up ?
Do n't you really feel a little nervous , Katherine ? ''
`` Not in the least , '' I said .
`` I suppose I ought to be , according to traditions , but I never felt less flustered in my life . ''
When Bessie brought up Gus Sinclair 's card Alicia dropped a pecky little kiss on my cheek , and pushed me toward the door .
I went down calmly , although I 'll admit that my heart was beating wildly .
Gus Sinclair was plainly nervous , but I was composed enough for both .
You would really have thought that I was in the habit of being proposed to by a millionaire every day .
`` I suppose you know what I have come to say , '' he said , standing before me , as I leaned gracefully back in a big chair , having taken care that the folds of my dress fell just as they should .
And then he proceeded to say it in a rather jumbled-up fashion , but very sincerely .
I remember thinking at the time that he must have composed the speech in his head the night before , and rehearsed it several times , but was forgetting it in spots .
When he ended with the self-same question that Jack had asked me three months before at Thrush Hill he stopped and took my hands .
I looked up at him .
His good , homely face was close to mine , and in his eyes was an unmistakable look of love and tenderness .
I opened my mouth to say yes .
And then there came over me in one rush the most awful realization of the sacrilege I was going to commit .
I forgot everything except that I loved Jack Willoughby , and that I could never , never marry anybody in the world except him .
Then I pulled my hands away and burst into hysterical , undignified tears .
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Mr. Sinclair .
`` I did not mean to startle you .
Have I been too abrupt ?
Surely you must have known -- you must have expected -- '' `` Yes -- yes -- I knew , '' I cried miserably , `` and I intended right up to this very minute to marry you .
I 'm so sorry -- but I ca n't -- I ca n't . ''
`` I do n't understand , '' he said in a bewildered tone .
`` If you expected it , then why -- why -- do n't you care for me ? ''
`` No , that 's just it , '' I sobbed .
`` I do n't love you at all -- and I do love somebody else .
But he is poor , and I hate poverty .
So I refused him , and I meant to marry you just because you are rich . ''
Such a pained look came over his face .
`` I did not think this of you , '' he said in a low tone .
`` Oh , I know I have acted shamefully , '' I said .
`` You ca n't think any worse of me than I do of myself .
How you must despise me ! ''
`` No , '' he said , with a grim smile , `` if I did it would be easier for me .
I might not love you then .
Do n't distress yourself , Katherine .
I do not deny that I feel greatly hurt and disappointed , but I am glad you have been true to yourself at last .
Do n't cry , dear . ''
`` You 're very good , '' I answered disconsolately , `` but all the same the fact remains that I have behaved disgracefully to you , and I know you think so .
Oh , Mr. Sinclair , please , please , go away .
I feel so miserably ashamed of myself that I can not look you in the face . ''
`` I am going , dear , '' he said gently .
`` I know all this must be very painful to you , but it is not easy for me , either . ''
`` Can you forgive me ? ''
I said wistfully .
`` Yes , my dear , completely .
Do not let yourself be unhappy over this .
Remember that I will always be your friend .
Goodbye . ''
He held out his hand and gave mine an earnest clasp .
Then he went away .
I remained in the drawing-room , partly because I wanted to finish out my cry , and partly because , miserable coward that I was , I did n't dare face Alicia .
Finally she came in , her face wreathed with anticipatory smiles .
But when her eyes fell on my forlorn , crumpled self she fairly jumped .
`` Katherine , what is the matter ? ''
she asked sharply .
`` Did n't Mr. Sinclair -- '' `` Yes , he did , '' I said desperately .
`` And I 've refused him .
There now , Alicia ! ''
Then I waited for the storm to burst .
It did n't all at once .
The shock was too great , and at first quite paralyzed my half-sister .
`` Katherine , '' she gasped , `` are you crazy ?
Have you lost your senses ? ''
`` No , I 've just come to them .
It 's true enough , Alicia .
You can scold all you like .
I know I deserve it , and I wo n't flinch .
I did really intend to take him , but when it came to the point I could n't .
I did n't love him . ''
Then , indeed , the storm burst .
I never saw Alicia so angry before , and I never got so roundly abused .
But even Alicia has her limits , and at last she grew calmer .
`` You have behaved disgracefully , '' she concluded .
`` I am disgusted with you .
You have encouraged Gus Sinclair markedly right along , and now you throw him over like this .
I never dreamed that you were capable of such unwomanly behaviour . ''
`` That 's a hard word , Alicia , '' I protested feebly .
She dealt me a withering glance .
`` It does not begin to be as hard as your shameful conduct merits .
To think of losing a fortune like that for the sake of sentimental folly !
I did n't think you were such a consummate fool . ''
`` I suppose you absorbed all the sense of our family , '' I said drearily .
`` There now , Alicia , do leave me alone .
I 'm down in the very depths already . ''
`` What do you mean to do now ? ''
said Alicia scornfully .
`` Go back to Valleyfield and marry that starving country doctor of yours , I suppose ? ''
I flared up then ; Alicia might abuse me all she liked , but I was n't going to hear a word against Jack .
`` Yes , I will , if he 'll have me , '' I said , and I marched out of the room and upstairs , with my head very high .
Of course I decided to leave Montreal as soon as I could .
But I could n't get away within a week , and it was a very unpleasant one .
Alicia treated me with icy indifference , and I knew I should never be reinstated in her good graces .
To my surprise , Roger took my part .
`` Let the girl alone , '' he told Alicia .
`` If she does n't love Sinclair , she was right in refusing him .
I , for one , am glad that she has got enough truth and womanliness in her to keep her from selling herself . ''
Then he came to the library where I was moping , and laid his hand on my head .
`` Little girl , '' he said earnestly , `` no matter what anyone says to you , never marry a man for his money or for any other reason on earth except because you love him . ''
This comforted me greatly , and I did not cry myself to sleep that night as usual .
At last I got away .
I had telegraphed to Jack : `` Am coming home Wednesday ; meet me at train , '' and I knew he would be there .
How I longed to see him again -- dear , old , badly treated Jack .
I got to Valleyfield just at dusk .
It was a rainy evening , and everything was slush and fog and gloom .
But away up I saw the home light at Thrush Hill , and Jack was waiting for me on the platform .
`` Oh , Jack ! ''
I said , clinging to him , regardless of appearances .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad to be back . ''
`` That 's right , Kitty .
I knew you would n't forget us .
How well you are looking ! ''
`` I suppose I ought to be looking wretched , '' I said penitently .
`` I 've been behaving very badly , Jack .
Wait till we get away from the crowd and I 'll tell you all about it . ''
And I did .
I did n't gloss over anything , but just confessed the whole truth .
Jack heard me through in silence , and then he kissed me .
`` Can you forgive me , Jack , and take me back ? ''
I whispered , cuddling up to him .
And he said -- but , on second thought , I will not write down what he said .
We are to be married in June .
A Substitute Journalist Clifford Baxter came into the sitting-room where Patty was darning stockings and reading a book at the same time .
Patty could do things like that .
The stockings were well darned too , and Patty understood and remembered what she read .
Clifford flung himself into a chair with a sigh of weariness .
`` Tired ? ''
queried Patty sympathetically .
`` Yes , rather .
I 've been tramping about the wharves all day gathering longshore items .
But , Patty , I 've got a chance at last .
Tonight as I was leaving the office Mr. Harmer gave me a real assignment for tomorrow -- two of them in fact , but only one of importance .
I 'm to go and interview Mr. Keefe on this new railroad bill that 's up before the legislature .
He 's in town , visiting his old college friend , Mr. Reid , and he 's quite big game .
I would n't have had the assignment , of course , if there 'd been anyone else to send , but most of the staff will be away all day tomorrow to see about that mine explosion at Midbury or the teamsters ' strike at Bainsville , and I 'm the only one available .
Harmer gave me a pretty broad hint that it was my chance to win my spurs , and that if I worked up a good article out of it I 'd stand a fair show of being taken on permanently next month when Alsop leaves .
There 'll be a shuffle all round then , you know .
Everybody on the staff will be pushed up a peg , and that will leave a vacant space at the foot . ''
Patty threw down her darning needle and clapped her hands with delight .
Clifford gazed at her admiringly , thinking that he had the prettiest sister in the world -- she was so bright , so eager , so rosy .
`` Oh , Clifford , how splendid ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` Just as we 'd begun to give up hope too .
Oh , you must get the position !
You must hand in a good write-up .
Think what it means to us . ''
`` Yes , I know . ''
Clifford dropped his head on his hand and stared rather moodily at the lamp .
`` But my joy is chastened , Patty .
Of course I want to get the permanency , since it seems to be the only possible thing , but you know my heart is n't really in newspaper work .
The plain truth is I do n't like it , although I do my best .
You know Father always said I was a born mechanic .
If I only could get a position somewhere among machinery -- that would be my choice .
There 's one vacant in the Steel and Iron Works at Bancroft -- but of course I 've no chance of getting it . ''
`` I know .
It 's too bad , '' said Patty , returning to her stockings with a sigh .
`` I wish I were a boy with a foothold on the Chronicle .
I firmly believe that I 'd make a good newspaper woman , if such a thing had ever been heard of in Aylmer . ''
`` That you would .
You 've twice as much knack in that line as I have .
You seem to know by instinct just what to leave out and put in .
I never do , and Harmer has to blue-pencil my copy mercilessly .
Well , I 'll do my best with this , as it 's very necessary I should get the permanency , for I fear our family purse is growing very slim .
Mother 's face has a new wrinkle of worry every day .
It hurts me to see it . ''
`` And me , '' sighed Patty .
`` I do wish I could find something to do too .
If only we both could get positions , everything would be all right .
Mother would n't have to worry so .
Do n't say anything about this chance to her until you see what comes of it .
She 'd only be doubly disappointed if nothing did .
What is your other assignment ? ''
`` Oh , I 've got to go out to Bancroft on the morning train and write up old Mr. Moreland 's birthday celebration .
He is a hundred years old , and there 's going to be a presentation and speeches and that sort of thing .
Nothing very exciting about it .
I 'll have to come back on the three o'clock train and hurry out to catch my politician before he leaves at five .
Take a stroll down to meet my train , Patty .
We can go out as far as Mr. Reid 's house together , and the walk will do you good . ''
The Baxters lived in Aylmer , a lively little town with two newspapers , the Chronicle and the Ledger .
Between these two was a sharp journalistic rivalry in the matter of `` beats '' and `` scoops . ''
In the preceding spring Clifford had been taken on the Chronicle on trial , as a sort of general handyman .
There was no pay attached to the position , but he was getting training and there was the possibility of a permanency in September if he proved his mettle .
Mr. Baxter had died two years before , and the failure of the company in which Mrs. Baxter 's money was invested had left the little family dependent on their own resources .
Clifford , who had cherished dreams of a course in mechanical engineering , knew that he must give them up and go to the first work that offered itself , which he did staunchly and uncomplainingly .
Patty , who hitherto had had no designs on a `` career , '' but had been sunnily content to be a home girl and Mother 's right hand , also realized that it would be well to look about her for something to do .
She was not really needed so far as the work of the little house went , and the whole burden must not be allowed to fall on Clifford 's eighteen-year-old shoulders .
Patty was his senior by a year , and ready to do her part unflinchingly .
The next afternoon Patty went down to meet Clifford 's train .
When it came , no Clifford appeared .
Patty stared about her at the hurrying throngs in bewilderment .
Where was Clifford ?
Had n't he come on the train ?
Surely he must have , for there was no other until seven o'clock .
She must have missed him somehow .
Patty waited until everybody had left the station , then she walked slowly homeward .
As the Chronicle office was on her way , she dropped in to see if Clifford had reported there .
She found nobody in the editorial offices except the office boy , Larry Brown , who promptly informed her that not only had Clifford not arrived , but that there was a telegram from him saying that he had missed his train .
Patty gasped in dismay .
It was dreadful !
`` Where is Mr. Harmer ? ''
she asked .
`` He went home as soon as the afternoon edition came out .
He left before the telegram came .
He 'll be furious when he finds out that nobody has gone to interview that foxy old politician , '' said Larry , who knew all about Clifford 's assignment and its importance .
`` Is n't there anyone else here to go ? ''
queried Patty desperately .
Larry shook his head .
`` No , there is n't a soul in .
We 're mighty short-handed just now on account of the explosion and the strike . ''
Patty went downstairs and stood for a moment in the hall , rapt in reflection .
If she had been at home , she verily believed she would have sat down and cried .
Oh , it was too bad , too disappointing !
Clifford would certainly lose all chance of the permanency , even if the irate news editor did not discharge him at once .
What could she do ?
Could she do anything ?
She must do something .
`` If I only could go in his place , '' moaned Patty softly to herself .
Then she started .
Why not ?
Why not go and interview the big man herself ?
To be sure , she did not know a great deal about interviewing , still less about railroad bills , and nothing at all about politics .
But if she did her best it might be better than nothing , and might at least save Clifford his present hold .
With Patty , to decide was to act .
She flew back to the reporters ' room , pounced on a pencil and tablet , and hurried off , her breath coming quickly , and her eyes shining with excitement .
It was quite a long walk out to Mr. Reid 's place and Patty was tired when she got there , but her courage was not a whit abated .
She mounted the steps and rang the bell undauntedly .
`` Can I see Mr. -- Mr. -- Mr. -- '' Patty paused for a moment in dismay .
She had forgotten the name .
The maid who had come to the door looked her over so superciliously that Patty flushed with indignation .
`` The gentleman who is visiting Mr. Reid , '' she said crisply .
`` I ca n't remember his name , but I 've come to interview him on behalf of the Chronicle .
Is he in ? ''
`` If you mean Mr. Reefer , he is , '' said the maid quite respectfully .
Evidently the Chronicle 's name carried weight in the Reid establishment .
`` Please come into the library .
I 'll go and tell him . ''
Patty had just time to seat herself at the table , spread out her paper imposingly , and assume a businesslike air when Mr. Reefer came in .
He was a tall , handsome old man with white hair , jet-black eyes , and a mouth that made Patty hope she would n't stumble on any questions he would n't want to answer .
Patty knew she would waste her breath if she did .
A man with a mouth like that would never tell anything he did n't want to tell .
`` Good afternoon .
What can I do for you , madam ? ''
inquired Mr. Reefer with the air and tone of a man who means to be courteous , but has no time or information to waste .
Patty was almost overcome by the `` Madam . ''
For a moment , she quailed .
She could n't ask that masculine sphinx questions !
Then the thought of her mother 's pale , careworn face flashed across her mind , and all her courage came back with an inspiriting rush .
She bent forward to look eagerly into Mr. Reefer 's carved , granite face , and said with a frank smile : `` I have come to interview you on behalf of the Chronicle about the railroad bill .
It was my brother who had the assignment , but he has missed his train and I have come in his place because , you see , it is so important to us .
So much depends on this assignment .
Perhaps Mr. Harmer will give Clifford a permanent place on the staff if he turns in a good article about you .
He is only handyman now .
I just could n't let him miss the chance -- he might never have another .
And it means so much to us and Mother . ''
`` Are you a member of the Chronicle staff yourself ? ''
inquired Mr. Reefer with a shade more geniality in his tone .
`` Oh , no !
I 've nothing to do with it , so you wo n't mind my being inexperienced , will you ?
I do n't know just what I should ask you , so wo n't you please just tell me everything about the bill , and Mr. Harmer can cut out what does n't matter ? ''
Mr. Reefer looked at Patty for a few moments with a face about as expressive as a graven image .
Perhaps he was thinking about the bill , and perhaps he was thinking what a bright , vivid , plucky little girl this was with her waiting pencil and her air that strove to be businesslike , and only succeeded in being eager and hopeful and anxious .
`` I 'm not used to being interviewed myself , '' he said slowly , `` so I do n't know very much about it .
We 're both green hands together , I imagine .
But I 'd like to help you out , so I do n't mind telling you what I think about this bill , and its bearing on certain important interests . ''
Mr. Reefer proceeded to tell her , and Patty 's pencil flew as she scribbled down his terse , pithy sentences .
She found herself asking questions too , and enjoying it .
For the first time , Patty thought she might rather like politics if she understood them -- and they did not seem so hard to understand when a man like Mr. Reefer explained them .
For half an hour he talked to her , and at the end of that time Patty was in full possession of his opinion on the famous railroad bill in all its aspects .
`` There now , I 'm talked out , '' said Mr. Reefer .
`` You can tell your news editor that you know as much about the railroad bill as Andrew Reefer knows .
I hope you 'll succeed in pleasing him , and that your brother will get the position he wants .
But he should n't have missed that train .
You tell him that .
Boys with important things to do must n't miss trains .
Perhaps it 's just as well he did in this case though , but tell him not to let it happen again . ''
Patty went straight home , wrote up her interview in ship-shape form , and took it down to the Chronicle office .
There she found Mr. Harmer , scowling blackly .
The little news editor looked to be in a rather bad temper , but he nodded not unkindly to Patty .
Mr. Harmer knew the Baxters well and liked them , although he would have sacrificed them all without a qualm for a `` scoop . ''
`` Good evening , Patty .
Take a chair .
That brother of yours has n't turned up yet .
The next time I give him an assignment , he 'll manage to be on hand in time to do it . ''
`` Oh , '' cried Patty breathlessly , `` please , Mr. Harmer , I have the interview here .
I thought perhaps I could do it in Clifford 's place , and I went out to Mr. Reid 's and saw Mr. Reefer .
He was very kind and -- '' `` Mr. who ? ''
fairly shouted Mr. Harmer .
`` Mr. Reefer -- Mr. Andrew Reefer .
He told me to tell you that this article contained all he knew or thought about the railroad bill and -- '' But Mr. Harmer was no longer listening .
He had snatched the neatly written sheets of Patty 's report and was skimming over them with a practised eye .
Then Patty thought he must have gone crazy .
He danced around the office , waving the sheets in the air , and then he dashed frantically up the stairs to the composing room .
Ten minutes later , he returned and shook the mystified Patty by the hand .
`` Patty , it 's the biggest beat we 've ever had !
We 've scooped not only the Ledger , but every other newspaper in the country .
How did you do it ?
How did you ever beguile or bewitch Andrew Reefer into giving you an interview ? ''
`` Why , '' said Patty in utter bewilderment , `` I just went out to Mr. Reid 's and asked for the gentleman who was visiting there -- I 'd forgotten his name -- and Mr. Reefer came down and I told him my brother had been detailed to interview him on behalf of the Chronicle about the bill , and that Clifford had missed his train , and would n't he let me interview him in his place and excuse my inexperience -- and he did . ''
`` It was n't Andrew Reefer I told Clifford to interview , '' laughed Mr. Harmer .
`` It was John C. Keefe .
I did n't know Reefer was in town , but even if I had I would n't have thought it a particle of use to send a man to him .
He has never consented to be interviewed before on any known subject , and he 's been especially close-mouthed about this bill , although men from all the big papers in the country have been after him .
He is notorious on that score .
Why , Patty , it 's the biggest journalistic fish that has ever been landed in this office .
Andrew Reefer 's opinion on the bill will have a tremendous influence .
We 'll run the interview as a leader in a special edition that is under way already .
Of course , he must have been ready to give the information to the public or nothing would have induced him to open his mouth .
But to think that we should be the first to get it !
Patty , you 're a brick ! ''
Clifford came home on the seven o'clock train , and Patty was there to meet him , brimful of her story .
But Clifford also had a story to tell and got his word in first .
`` Now , Patty , do n't scold until you hear why I missed the train .
I met Mr. Peabody of the Steel and Iron Company at Mr. Moreland 's and got into conversation with him .
When he found out who I was , he was greatly interested and said Father had been one of his best friends when they were at college together .
I told him about wanting to get the position in the company , and he had me go right out to the works and see about it .
And , Patty , I have the place .
Goodbye to the grind of newspaper items and fillers .
I tried to get back to the station at Bancroft in time to catch the train but I could n't , and it was just as well , for Mr. Keefe was suddenly summoned home this afternoon , and when the three-thirty train from town stopped at Bancroft he was on it .
I found that out and I got on , going to the next station with him and getting my interview after all .
It 's here in my notebook , and I must hurry up to the office and hand it in .
I suppose Mr. Harmer will be very much vexed until he finds that I have it . ''
`` Oh , no .
Mr. Harmer is in a very good humour , '' said Patty with dancing eyes .
Then she told her story .
The interview with Mr. Reefer came out with glaring headlines , and the Chronicle had its hour of fame and glory .
The next day Mr. Harmer sent word to Patty that he wanted to see her .
`` So Clifford is leaving , '' he said abruptly when she entered the office .
`` Well , do you want his place ? ''
`` Mr. Harmer , are you joking ? ''
demanded Patty in amazement .
`` Not I .
That stuff you handed in was splendidly written -- I did n't have to use the pencil more than once or twice .
You have the proper journalist instinct all right .
We need a lady on the staff anyhow , and if you 'll take the place it 's yours for saying so , and the permanency next month . ''
`` I 'll take it , '' said Patty promptly and joyfully .
`` Good .
Go down to the Symphony Club rehearsal this afternoon and report it .
You 've just ten minutes to get there , '' and Patty joyfully and promptly departed .
Anna 's Love Letters `` Are you going to answer Gilbert 's letter tonight , Anna ? ''
asked Alma Williams , standing in the pantry doorway , tall , fair , and grey-eyed , with the sunset light coming down over the dark firs , through the window behind her , and making a primrose nimbus around her shapely head .
Anna , dark , vivid , and slender , was perched on the edge of the table , idly swinging her slippered foot at the cat 's head .
She smiled wickedly at Alma before replying .
`` I am not going to answer it tonight or any other night , '' she said , twisting her full , red lips in a way that Alma had learned to dread .
Mischief was ripening in Anna 's brain when that twist was out .
`` What do you mean ? ''
asked Alma anxiously .
`` Just what I say , dear , '' responded Anna , with deceptive meekness .
`` Poor Gilbert is gone , and I do n't intend to bother my head about him any longer .
He was amusing while he lasted , but of what use is a beau two thousand miles away , Alma ? ''
Alma was patient -- outwardly .
It was never of any avail to show impatience with Anna .
`` Anna , you are talking foolishly .
Of course you are going to answer his letter .
You are as good as engaged to him .
Was n't that practically understood when he left ? ''
`` No , no , dear , '' and Anna shook her sleek black head with the air of explaining matters to an obtuse child . ''
I was the only one who understood .
Gil mis_understood .
He thought that I would really wait for him until he should have made enough money to come home and pay off the mortgage .
I let him think so , because I hated to hurt his little feelings .
But now it 's off with the old love and on with a new one for me . ''
`` Anna , you can not be in earnest ! ''
exclaimed Alma .
But she was afraid that Anna was in earnest .
Anna had a wretched habit of being in earnest when she said flippant things .
`` You do n't mean that you are not going to write to Gilbert at all -- after all you promised ? ''
Anna placed her elbows daintily on the top of the rocking chair , dropped her pointed chin in her hands , and looked at Alma with black demure eyes .
`` I -- do -- mean -- just -- that , '' she said slowly .
`` I never mean to marry Gilbert Murray .
This is final , Alma , and you need not scold or coax , because it would be a waste of breath .
Gilbert is safely out of the way , and now I am going to have a good time with a few other delightful men creatures in Exeter . ''
Anna nodded decisively , flashed a smile at Alma , picked up her cat , and went out .
At the door she turned and looked back , with the big black cat snuggled under her chin .
`` If you think Gilbert will feel very badly over his letter not being answered , you might answer it yourself , Alma , '' she said teasingly .
`` There it is '' -- she took the letter from the pocket of her ruffled apron and threw it on a chair .
`` You may read it if you want to ; it is n't really a love letter .
I told Gilbert he was n't to write silly letters .
Come , pussy , I 'm going to get ready for prayer meeting .
We 've got a nice , new , young , good-looking minister in Exeter , pussy , and that makes prayer meeting very interesting . ''
Anna shut the door , her departing laugh rippling mockingly through the dusk .
Alma picked up Gilbert Murray 's letter and went to her room .
She wanted to cry , since she could not shake Anna .
Even if she could have shook her , it would only have made her more perverse .
Anna was in earnest ; Alma knew that , even while she hoped and believed that it was but the earnestness of a freak that would pass in time .
Anna had had one like it a year ago , when she had cast Gilbert off for three months , driving him distracted by flirting with Charlie Moore .
Then she had suddenly repented and taken him back .
Alma thought that this whim would run its course likewise and leave a repentant Anna .
But meanwhile everything might be spoiled .
Gilbert might not prove forgiving a second time .
Alma would have given much if she could only have induced Anna to answer Gilbert 's letter , but coaxing Anna to do anything was a very sure and effective way of preventing her from doing it .
* * * * * Alma and Anna had lived alone at the old Williams homestead ever since their mother 's death four years before .
Exeter matrons thought this hardly proper , since Alma , in spite of her grave ways , was only twenty-four .
The farm was rented , so that Alma 's only responsibilities were the post office which she kept , and that harum-scarum beauty of an Anna .
The Murray homestead adjoined theirs .
Gilbert Murray had grown up with Alma ; they had been friends ever since she could remember .
Alma loved Gilbert with a love which she herself believed to be purely sisterly , and which nobody else doubted could be , since she had been at pains to make a match -- Exeter matrons ' phrasing -- between Gil and Anna , and was manifestly delighted when Gilbert obligingly fell in love with the latter .
There was a small mortgage on the Murray place which Mr. Murray senior had not been able to pay off .
Gilbert determined to get rid of it , and his thoughts turned to the west .
His father was an active , hale old man , quite capable of managing the farm in Gilbert 's absence .
Alexander MacNair had gone to the west two years previously and got work on a new railroad .
He wrote to Gilbert to come too , promising him plenty of work and good pay .
Gilbert went , but before going he had asked Anna to marry him .
It was the first proposal Anna had ever had , and she managed it quite cleverly , from her standpoint .
She told Gilbert that he must wait until he came home again before settling that , meanwhile , they would be very good friends -- emphasized with a blush -- and that he might write to her .
She kissed him goodbye , and Gilbert , honest fellow , was quite satisfied .
When an Exeter girl had allowed so much to be inferred , it was understood to be equivalent to an engagement .
Gilbert had never discerned that Anna was not like the other Exeter girls , but was a law unto herself .
Alma sat down by her window and looked out over the lane where the slim wild cherry trees were bronzing under the autumn frosts .
Her lips were very firmly set .
Something must be done .
But what ?
Alma 's heart was set on this marriage for two reasons .
Firstly , if Anna married Gilbert she would be near her all her life .
She could not bear the thought that some day Anna might leave her and go far away to live .
In the second and largest place , she desired the marriage because Gilbert did .
She had always been desirous , even in the old , childish play-days , that Gilbert should get just exactly what he wanted .
She had always taken a keen , strange delight in furthering his wishes .
Anna 's falseness would surely break his heart , and Alma winced at the thought of his pain .
There was one thing she could do .
Anna 's tormenting suggestion had fallen on fertile soil .
Alma balanced pros and cons , admitting the risk .
But she would have taken a tenfold larger risk in the hope of holding secure Anna 's place in Gilbert 's affections until Anna herself should come to her senses .
When it grew quite dark and Anna had gone lilting down the lane on her way to prayer meeting , Alma lighted her lamp , read Gilbert 's letter -- and answered it .
Her handwriting was much like Anna 's .
She signed the letter `` A. Williams , '' and there was nothing in it that might not have been written by her to Gilbert ; but she knew that Gilbert would believe Anna had written it , and she intended him so to believe .
Alma never did a thing halfway when she did it at all .
At first she wrote rather constrainedly but , reflecting that in any case Anna would have written a merely friendly letter , she allowed her thoughts to run freely , and the resulting epistle was an excellent one of its kind .
Alma had the gift of expression and more brains than Exeter people had ever imagined she possessed .
When Gilbert read that letter a fortnight later he was surprised to find that Anna was so clever .
He had always , with a secret regret , thought her much inferior to Alma in this respect , but that delightful letter , witty , wise , fanciful , was the letter of a clever woman .
When a year had passed Alma was still writing to Gilbert the letters signed `` A. Williams . ''
She had ceased to fear being found out , and she took a strange pleasure in the correspondence for its own sake .
At first she had been quakingly afraid of discovery .
When she smuggled the letters addressed in Gilbert 's handwriting to Miss Anna Williams out of the letter packet and hid them from Anna 's eyes , she felt as guilty as if she were breaking all the laws of the land at once .
To be sure , she knew that she would have to confess to Anna some day , when the latter repented and began to wish she had written to Gilbert , but that was a very different thing from premature disclosure .
But Anna had as yet given no sign of such repentance , although Alma looked for it anxiously .
Anna was having the time of her life .
She was the acknowledged beauty of five settlements , and she went forward on her career of conquest quite undisturbed by the jealousies and heart-burnings she provoked on every side .
One moonlight night she went for a sleigh-drive with Charlie Moore of East Exeter -- and returned to tell Alma that they were married !
`` I knew you would make a fuss , Alma , because you do n't like Charlie , so we just took matters into our own hands .
It was so much more romantic , too .
I 'd always said I 'd never be married in any of your dull , commonplace ways .
You might as well forgive me and be nice right off , Alma , because you 'd have to do it anyway , in time .
Well , you do look surprised ! ''
* * * * * Alma accepted the situation with an apathy that amazed Anna .
The truth was that Alma was stunned by a thought that had come to her even while Anna was speaking .
`` Gilbert will find out about the letters now , and despise me . ''
Nothing else , not even the fact that Anna had married shiftless Charlie Moore , seemed worth while considering beside this .
The fear and shame of it haunted her like a nightmare ; she shrank every morning from the thought of all the mail that was coming that day , fearing that there would be an angry , puzzled letter from Gilbert .
He must certainly soon hear of Anna 's marriage ; he would see it in the home paper , other correspondents in Exeter would write him of it .
Alma grew sick at heart thinking of the complications in front of her .
When Gilbert 's letter came she left it for a whole day before she could summon courage to open it .
But it was a harmless epistle after all ; he had not yet heard of Anna 's marriage .
Alma had at first no thought of answering it , yet her fingers ached to do so .
Now that Anna was gone , her loneliness was unbearable .
She realized how much Gilbert 's letters had meant to her , even when written to another woman .
She could bear her life well enough , she thought , if she only had his letters to look forward to .
No more letters came from Gilbert for six weeks .
Then came one , alarmed at Anna 's silence , anxiously asking the reason for it ; Gilbert had heard no word of the marriage .
He was working in a remote district where newspapers seldom penetrated .
He had no other correspondent in Exeter now ; except his mother , and she , not knowing that he supposed himself engaged to Anna had forgotten to mention it .
Alma answered that letter .
She told herself recklessly that she would keep on writing to him until he found out .
She would lose his friendship anyhow , when that occurred , but meanwhile she would have the letters a little longer .
She could not learn to live without them until she had to .
The correspondence slipped back into its old groove .
The harassed look which Alma 's face had worn , and which Exeter people had attributed to worry over Anna , disappeared .
She did not even feel lonely , and reproached herself for lack of proper feeling in missing Anna so little .
Besides , to her horror and dismay , she detected in herself a strange undercurrent of relief at the thought that Gilbert could never marry Anna now !
She could not understand it .
Had not that marriage been her dearest wish for years ?
Why then should she feel this strange gladness at the impossibility of its fulfilment ?
Altogether , Alma feared that her condition of mind and morals must be sadly askew .
Perhaps , she thought mournfully , this perversion of proper feeling was her punishment for the deception she had practised .
She had deliberately done evil that good might come , and now the very imaginations of her heart were stained by that evil .
Alma cried herself to sleep many a night in her repentance , but she kept on writing to Gilbert , for all that .
The winter passed , and the spring and summer waned , and Alma 's outward life flowed as smoothly as the currents of the seasons , broken only by vivid eruptions from Anna , who came over often from East Exeter , glorying in her young matronhood , `` to cheer Alma up . ''
Alma , so said Exeter people , was becoming unsociable and old maidish .
She lost her liking for company , and seldom went anywhere among her neighbours .
Her once frequent visits across the yard to chat with old Mrs. Murray became few and far between .
She could not bear to hear the old lady talking about Gilbert , and she was afraid that some day she would be told that he was coming home .
Gilbert 's home-coming was the nightmare dread that darkened poor Alma 's whole horizon .
* * * * * One October day , two years after Gilbert 's departure , Alma , standing at her window in the reflected glow of a red maple outside , looked down the lane and saw him striding up it !
She had had no warning of his coming .
His last letter , dated three weeks back , had not hinted at it .
Yet there he was -- and with him Alma 's Nemesis .
She was very calm .
Now that the worst had come , she felt quite strong to meet it .
She would tell Gilbert the truth , and he would go away in anger and never forgive her , but she deserved it .
As she went downstairs , the only thing that really worried her was the thought of the pain Gilbert would suffer when she told him of Anna 's faithlessness .
She had seen his face as he passed under her window , and it was the face of a blithe man who had not heard any evil tidings .
It was left to her to tell him ; surely , she thought apathetically , that was punishment enough for what she had done .
With her hand on the doorknob , she paused to wonder what she should say when he asked her why she had not told him of Anna 's marriage when it occurred -- why she had still continued the deception when it had no longer an end to serve .
Well , she would tell him the truth -- that it was because she could not bear the thought of giving up writing to him .
It was a humiliating thing to confess , but that did not matter -- nothing mattered now .
She opened the door .
Gilbert was standing on the big round door-stone under the red maple -- a tall , handsome young fellow with a bronzed face and laughing eyes .
His exile had improved him .
Alma found time and ability to reflect that she had never known Gilbert was so fine-looking .
He put his arm around her and kissed her cheek in his frank delight at seeing her again .
Alma coldly asked him in .
Her face was still as pale as when she came downstairs , but a curious little spot of fiery red blossomed out where Gilbert 's lips had touched it .
Gilbert followed her into the sitting-room and looked about eagerly .
`` When did you come home ? ''
she said slowly .
`` I did not know you were expected . ''
`` Got homesick , and just came !
I wanted to surprise you all , '' he answered , laughing .
`` I arrived only a few minutes ago .
Just took time to hug my mother , and here I am .
Where 's Anna ? ''
The pent-up retribution of two years descended on Alma 's head in the last question of Gilbert 's .
But she did not flinch .
She stood straight before him , tall and fair and pale , with the red maple light streaming in through the open door behind her , staining her light house-dress and mellowing the golden sheen of her hair .
Gilbert reflected that Alma Williams was really a very handsome girl .
These two years had improved her .
What splendid big grey eyes she had !
He had always wished that Anna 's eyes had not been quite so black .
`` Anna is not here , '' said Alma .
`` She is married . ''
`` Married ! ''
Gilbert sat down suddenly on a chair and looked at Alma in bewilderment .
`` She has been married for a year , '' said Alma steadily .
`` She married Charlie Moore of East Exeter , and has been living there ever since . ''
`` Then , '' said Gilbert , laying hold of the one solid fact that loomed out of the mist of his confused understanding , `` why did she keep on writing letters to me after she was married ? ''
`` She never wrote to you at all .
It was I that wrote the letters . ''
Gilbert looked at Alma doubtfully .
Was she crazy ?
There was something odd about her , now that he noticed , as she stood rigidly there , with that queer red spot on her face , a strange fire in her eyes , and that weird reflection from the maple enveloping her like an immaterial flame .
`` I do n't understand , '' he said helplessly .
Still standing there , Alma told the whole story , giving full explanations , but no excuses .
She told it clearly and simply , for she had often pictured this scene to herself and thought out what she must say .
Her memory worked automatically , and her tongue obeyed it promptly .
To herself she seemed like a machine , talking mechanically , while her soul stood on one side and listened .
When she had finished there was a silence lasting perhaps ten seconds .
To Alma it seemed like hours .
Would Gilbert overwhelm her with angry reproaches , or would he simply rise up and leave her in unutterable contempt ?
It was the most tragic moment of her life , and her whole personality was strung up to meet it and withstand it .
`` Well , they were good letters , anyhow , '' said Gilbert finally ; `` interesting letters , '' he added , as if by way of a meditative afterthought .
It was so anti-climactic that Alma broke into an hysterical giggle , cut short by a sob .
She dropped into a chair by the table and flung her hands over her face , laughing and sobbing softly to herself .
Gilbert rose and walked to the door , where he stood with his back to her until she regained her self-control .
Then he turned and looked down at her quizzically .
Alma 's hands lay limply in her lap , and her eyes were cast down , with tears glistening on the long fair lashes .
She felt his gaze on her .
`` Can you ever forgive me , Gilbert ? ''
she said humbly .
`` I do n't know that there is much to forgive , '' he answered .
`` I have some explanations to make too and , since we 're at it , we might as well get them all over and have done with them .
Two years ago I did honestly think I was in love with Anna -- at least when I was round where she was .
She had a taking way with her .
But , somehow , even then , when I was n't with her she seemed to kind of grow dim and not count for so awful much after all .
I used to wish she was more like you -- quieter , you know , and not so sparkling .
When I parted from her that last night before I went west , I did feel very bad , and she seemed very dear to me , but it was six weeks from that before her -- your -- letter came , and in that time she seemed to have faded out of my thoughts .
Honestly , I was n't thinking much about her at all .
Then came the letter -- and it was a splendid one , too .
I had never thought that Anna could write a letter like that , and I was as pleased as Punch about it .
The letters kept coming , and I kept on looking for them more and more all the time .
I fell in love all over again -- with the writer of those letters .
I thought it was Anna , but since you wrote the letters , it must have been with you , Alma .
I thought it was because she was growing more womanly that she could write such letters .
That was why I came home .
I wanted to get acquainted all over again , before she grew beyond me altogether -- I wanted to find the real Anna the letters showed me .
I -- I -- did n't expect this .
But I do n't care if Anna is married , so long as the girl who wrote those letters is n't .
It 's you I love , Alma . ''
He bent down and put his arm about her , laying his cheek against hers .
The little red spot where his kiss had fallen was now quite drowned out in the colour that rushed over her face .
`` If you 'll marry me , Alma , I 'll forgive you , '' he said .
A little smile escaped from the duress of Alma 's lips and twitched her dimples .
`` I 'm willing to do anything that will win your forgiveness , Gilbert , '' she said meekly .
Aunt Caroline 's Silk Dress Patty came in from her walk to the post office with cheeks finely reddened by the crisp air .
Carry surveyed her with pleasure .
Of late Patty 's cheeks had been entirely too pale to please Carry , and Patty had not had a very good appetite .
Once or twice she had even complained of a headache .
So Carry had sent her to the office for a walk that night , although the post office trip was usually Carry 's own special constitutional , always very welcome to her after a weary day of sewing on other people 's pretty dresses .
Carry never sewed on pretty dresses for herself , for the simple reason that she never had any pretty dresses .
Carry was twenty-two -- and feeling forty , her last pretty dress had been when she was a girl of twelve , before her father had died .
To be sure , there was the silk organdie Aunt Kathleen had sent her , but that was fit only for parties , and Carry never went to any parties .
`` Did you get any mail , Patty ? ''
she asked unexpectantly .
There was never much mail for the Lea girls .
`` Yes 'm , '' said Patty briskly .
`` Here 's the Weekly Advocate , and a patent medicine almanac with all your dreams expounded , and a letter for Miss Carry M. Lea .
It 's postmarked Enfield , and has a suspiciously matrimonial look .
I 'm sure it 's an invitation to Chris Fairley 's wedding .
Hurry up and see , Caddy . ''
Carry , with a little flush of excitement on her face , opened her letter .
Sure enough , it contained an invitation `` to be present at the marriage of Christine Fairley . ''
`` How jolly ! ''
exclaimed Patty .
`` Of course you 'll go , Caddy .
You 'll have a chance to wear that lovely organdie of yours at last . ''
`` It was sweet of Chris to invite me , '' said Carry .
`` I really did n't expect it . ''
`` Well , I did .
Was n't she your most intimate friend when she lived in Enderby ? ''
`` Oh , yes , but it is four years since she left , and some people might forget in four years .
But I might have known Chris would n't .
Of course I 'll go . ''
`` And you 'll make up your organdie ? ''
`` I shall have to , '' laughed Carry , forgetting all her troubles for a moment , and feeling young and joyous over the prospect of a festivity .
`` I have n't another thing that would do to wear to a wedding .
If I had n't that blessed organdie I could n't go , that 's all . ''
`` But you have it , and it will look lovely made up with a tucked skirt .
Tucks are so fashionable now .
