he said , and when he spoke her name it sounded as if he spoke the name of one dead .
After a little the worst sting passed away .
He refused to believe long that Blossom would be ashamed of him ; he knew she would not .
Three years could not so alter her loyal nature -- no , nor ten times three years .
But she would be changed -- she would have grown away from him in those three busy , brilliant years .
His companionship could no longer satisfy her .
How simple and childish he had been to expect it !
She would be sweet and kind -- Blossom could never be anything else .
She would not show open discontent or dissatisfaction ; she would not be like Lauretta Bradley ; but it would be there , and he would divine it , and it would break his heart .
Mrs. Blewett was right .
When he had given Blossom up he should not have made a half-hearted thing of his sacrifice -- he should not have bound her to come back to him .
He walked about in his little garden until late at night , under the stars , with the sea crooning and calling to him down the slope .
When he finally went to bed he did not sleep , but lay until morning with tear-wet eyes and despair in his heart .
All the forenoon he went about his usual daily work absently .
Frequently he fell into long reveries , standing motionless wherever he happened to be , and looking dully before him .
Only once did he show any animation .
When he saw Mrs. Blewett coming up the lane he darted into the house , locked the door , and listened to her knocking in grim silence .
After she had gone he went out , and found a plate of fresh doughnuts , covered with a napkin , placed on the bench at the door .
Mrs. Blewett meant to indicate thus that she bore him no malice for her curt dismissal the day before ; possibly her conscience gave her some twinges also .
But her doughnuts could not minister to the mind she had diseased .
Old Man Shaw took them up ; carried them to the pig-pen , and fed them to the pigs .
It was the first spiteful thing he had done in his life , and he felt a most immoral satisfaction in it .
In mid-afternoon he went out to the garden , finding the new loneliness of the little house unbearable .
The old bench was warm in the sunshine .
Old Man Shaw sat down with a long sigh , and dropped his white head wearily on his breast .
He had decided what he must do .
He would tell Blossom that she might go back to her aunt and never mind about him -- he would do very well by himself and he did not blame her in the least .
He was still sitting broodingly there when a girl came up the lane .
She was tall and straight , and walked with a kind of uplift in her motion , as if it would be rather easier to fly than not .
She was dark , with a rich dusky sort of darkness , suggestive of the bloom on purple plums , or the glow of deep red apples among bronze leaves .
Her big brown eyes lingered on everything in sight , and little gurgles of sound now and again came through her parted lips , as if inarticulate joy were thus expressing itself .
At the garden gate she saw the bent figure on the old bench , and the next minute she was flying along the rose walk .
`` Daddy ! ''
she called , `` daddy ! ''
Old Man Shaw stood up in hasty bewilderment ; then a pair of girlish arms were about his neck , and a pair of warm red lips were on his ; girlish eyes , full of love , were looking up into his , and a never-forgotten voice , tingling with laughter and tears blended into one delicious chord , was crying , `` Oh , daddy , is it really you ?
Oh , I ca n't tell you how good it is to see you again ! ''
Old Man Shaw held her tightly in a silence of amazement and joy too deep for wonder .
Why , this was his Blossom -- the very Blossom who had gone away three years ago !
A little taller , a little more womanly , but his own dear Blossom , and no stranger .
There was a new heaven and a new earth for him in the realization .
`` Oh , Baby Blossom ! ''
he murmured , `` Little Baby Blossom ! ''
Sara rubbed her cheek against the faded coat sleeve .
`` Daddy darling , this moment makes up for everything , does n't it ? ''
`` But -- but -- where did you come from ? ''
he asked , his senses beginning to struggle out of their bewilderment of surprise .
`` I did n't expect you till to-morrow .
You did n't have to walk from the station , did you ?
And your old daddy not there to welcome you ! ''
Sara laughed , swung herself back by the tips of her fingers and danced around him in the childish fashion of long ago .
`` I found I could make an earlier connection with the C.P.A. yesterday and get to the Island last night .
I was in such a fever to get home that I jumped at the chance .
Of course I walked from the station -- it 's only two miles and every step was a benediction .
My trunks are over there .
We 'll go after them to-morrow , daddy , but just now I want to go straight to every one of the dear old nooks and spots at once . ''
`` You must get something to eat first , '' he urged fondly .
`` And there ai n't much in the house , I 'm afraid .
I was going to bake to-morrow morning .
But I guess I can forage you out something , darling . ''
He was sorely repenting having given Mrs. Blewett 's doughnuts to the pigs , but Sara brushed all such considerations aside with a wave of her hand .
`` I do n't want anything to eat just now .
By and by we 'll have a snack ; just as we used to get up for ourselves whenever we felt hungry .
Do n't you remember how scandalized White Sands folks used to be at our irregular hours ?
I 'm hungry ; but it 's soul hunger , for a glimpse of all the dear old rooms and places .
Come -- there are four hours yet before sunset , and I want to cram into them all I 've missed out of these three years .
Let us begin right here with the garden .
Oh , daddy , by what witchcraft have you coaxed that sulky rose-bush into bloom ? ''
`` No witchcraft at all -- it just bloomed because you were coming home , baby , '' said her father .
They had a glorious afternoon of it , those two children .
They explored the garden and then the house .
Sara danced through every room , and then up to her own , holding fast to her father 's hand .
`` Oh , it 's lovely to see my little room again , daddy .
I 'm sure all my old hopes and dreams are waiting here for me . ''
She ran to the window and threw it open , leaning out .
`` Daddy , there 's no view in the world so beautiful as that curve of sea between the headlands .
I 've looked at magnificent scenery -- and then I 'd shut my eyes and conjure up that picture .
Oh , listen to the wind keening in the trees !
How I 've longed for that music ! ''
He took her to the orchard and followed out his crafty plan of surprise perfectly .
She rewarded him by doing exactly what he had dreamed of her doing , clapping her hands and crying out : `` Oh , daddy !
Why , daddy ! ''
They finished up with the shore , and then at sunset they came back and sat down on the old garden bench .
Before them a sea of splendour , burning like a great jewel , stretched to the gateways of the west .
The long headlands on either side were darkly purple , and the sun left behind him a vast , cloudless arc of fiery daffodil and elusive rose .
Back over the orchard in a cool , green sky glimmered a crystal planet , and the night poured over them a clear wine of dew from her airy chalice .
The spruces were rejoicing in the wind , and even the battered firs were singing of the sea .
Old memories trooped into their hearts like shining spirits .
`` Baby Blossom , '' said Old Man Shaw falteringly , `` are you quite sure you 'll be contented here ?
Out there '' -- with a vague sweep of his hand towards horizons that shut out a world far removed from White Sands -- `` there 's pleasure and excitement and all that .
Wo n't you miss it ?
Wo n't you get tired of your old father and White Sands ? ''
Sara patted his hand gently .
`` The world out there is a good place , '' she said thoughtfully , `` I 've had three splendid years and I hope they 'll enrich my whole life .
There are wonderful things out there to see and learn , fine , noble people to meet , beautiful deeds to admire ; but , '' she wound her arm about his neck and laid her cheek against his -- `` there is no daddy ! ''
And Old Man Shaw looked silently at the sunset -- or , rather , through the sunset to still grander and more radiant splendours beyond , of which the things seen were only the pale reflections , not worthy of attention from those who had the gift of further sight .
VII .
Aunt Olivia 's Beau Aunt Olivia told Peggy and me about him on the afternoon we went over to help her gather her late roses for pot-pourri .
We found her strangely quiet and preoccupied .
As a rule she was fond of mild fun , alert to hear East Grafton gossip , and given to sudden little trills of almost girlish laughter , which for the time being dispelled the atmosphere of gentle old-maidishness which seemed to hang about her as a garment .
At such moments we did not find it hard to believe -- as we did at other times -- that Aunt Olivia had once been a girl herself .
This day she picked the roses absently , and shook the fairy petals into her little sweet-grass basket with the air of a woman whose thoughts were far away .
We said nothing , knowing that Aunt Olivia 's secrets always came our way in time .
When the rose-leaves were picked , we carried them in and upstairs in single file , Aunt Olivia bringing up the rear to pick up any stray rose-leaf we might drop .
In the south-west room , where there was no carpet to fade , we spread them on newspapers on the floor .
Then we put our sweet-grass baskets back in the proper place in the proper closet in the proper room .
What would have happened to us , or to the sweet-grass baskets , if this had not been done I do not know .
Nothing was ever permitted to remain an instant out of place in Aunt Olivia 's house .
When we went downstairs , Aunt Olivia asked us to go into the parlour .
She had something to tell us , she said , and as she opened the door a delicate pink flush spread over her face .
I noted it , with surprise , but no inkling of the truth came to me -- for nobody ever connected the idea of possible lovers or marriage with this prim little old maid , Olivia Sterling .
Aunt Olivia 's parlour was much like herself -- painfully neat .
Every article of furniture stood in exactly the same place it had always stood .
Nothing was ever suffered to be disturbed .
The tassels of the crazy cushion lay just so over the arm of the sofa , and the crochet antimacassar was always spread at precisely the same angel over the horsehair rocking chair .
No speck of dust was ever visible ; no fly ever invaded that sacred apartment .
Aunt Olivia pulled up a blind , to let in what light could sift finely through the vine leaves , and sat down in a high-backed old chair that had appertained to her great-grandmother .
She folded her hands in her lap , and looked at us with shy appeal in her blue-gray eyes .
Plainly she found it hard to tell us her secret , yet all the time there was an air of pride and exultation about her ; somewhat , also , of a new dignity .
Aunt Olivia could never be self-assertive , but if it had been possible that would have been her time for it .
`` Have you ever heard me speak of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ? ''
asked Aunt Olivia .
We had never heard her , or anybody else , speak of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ; but volumes of explanation could not have told us more about him than did Aunt Olivia 's voice when she pronounced his name .
We knew , as if it had been proclaimed to us in trumpet tones , that Mr. Malcolm MacPherson must be Aunt Olivia 's beau , and the knowledge took away our breath .
We even forgot to be curious , so astonished were we .
And there sat Aunt Olivia , proud and shy and exulting and shamefaced , all at once !
`` He is a brother of Mrs. John Seaman 's across the bridge , '' explained Aunt Olivia with a little simper .
`` Of course you do n't remember him .
He went out to British Columbia twenty years ago .
But he is coming home now -- and -- and -- tell your father , wo n't you -- I -- I -- do n't like to tell him -- Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and I are going to be married . ''
`` Married ! ''
gasped Peggy .
And `` married ! ''
I echoed stupidly .
Aunt Olivia bridled a little .
`` There is nothing unsuitable in that , is there ? ''
she asked , rather crisply .
`` Oh , no , no , '' I hastened to assure her , giving Peggy a surreptitious kick to divert her thoughts from laughter .
`` Only you must realize , Aunt Olivia , that this is a very great surprise to us . ''
`` I thought it would be so , '' said Aunt Olivia complacently .
`` But your father will know -- he will remember .
I do hope he wo n't think me foolish .
He did not think Mr. Malcolm MacPherson was a fit person for me to marry once .
But that was long ago , when Mr. Malcolm MacPherson was very poor .
He is in very comfortable circumstances now . ''
`` Tell us about it , Aunt Olivia , '' said Peggy .
She did not look at me , which was my salvation .
Had I caught Peggy 's eye when Aunt Olivia said `` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson '' in that tone I must have laughed , willy-nilly .
`` When I was a girl the MacPhersons used to live across the road from here .
Mr. Malcolm MacPherson was my beau then .
But my family -- and your father especially -- dear me , I do hope he wo n't be very cross -- were opposed to his attentions and were very cool to him .
I think that was why he never said anything to me about getting married then .
And after a time he went away , as I have said , and I never heard anything from him directly for many a year .
Of course , his sister sometimes gave me news of him .
But last June I had a letter from him .
He said he was coming home to settle down for good on the old Island , and he asked me if I would marry him .
I wrote back and said I would .
Perhaps I ought to have consulted your father , but I was afraid he would think I ought to refuse Mr. Malcolm MacPherson . ''
`` Oh , I do n't think father will mind , '' said Peggy reassuringly .
`` I hope not , because , of course , I would consider it my duty in any case to fulfil the promise I have given to Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
He will be in Grafton next week , the guest of his sister , Mrs. John Seaman , across the bridge . ''
Aunt Olivia said that exactly as if she were reading it from the personal column of the Daily Enterprise .
`` When is the wedding to be ? ''
I asked .
`` Oh ! ''
Aunt Olivia blushed distressfully .
`` I do not know the exact date .
Nothing can be definitely settled until Mr. Malcolm MacPherson comes .
But it will not be before September , at the earliest .
There will be so much to do .
You will tell your father , wo n't you ? ''
We promised that we would , and Aunt Olivia arose with an air of relief .
Peggy and I hurried over home , stopping , when we were safely out of earshot , to laugh .
The romances of the middle-aged may be to them as tender and sweet as those of youth , but they are apt to possess a good deal of humour for onlookers .
Only youth can be sentimental without being mirth-provoking .
We loved Aunt Olivia and were glad for her late , new-blossoming happiness ; but we felt amused over it also .
The recollection of her `` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson '' was too much for us every time we thought of it .
Father pooh-poohed incredulously at first , and , when we had convinced him , guffawed with laughter .
Aunt Olivia need not have dreaded any more opposition from her cruel family .
`` MacPherson was a good fellow enough , but horribly poor , '' said father .
`` I hear he has done very well out west , and if he and Olivia have a notion of each other they are welcome to marry as far as I am concerned .
Tell Olivia she must n't take a spasm if he tracks some mud into her house once in a while . ''
Thus it was all arranged , and , before we realized it at all , Aunt Olivia was mid-deep in marriage preparations , in all of which Peggy and I were quite indispensable .
She consulted us in regard to everything , and we almost lived at her place in those days preceding the arrival of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
Aunt Olivia plainly felt very happy and important .
She had always wished to be married ; she was not in the least strong-minded and her old-maidenhood had always been a sore point with her .
I think she looked upon it as somewhat of a disgrace .
And yet she was a born old maid ; looking at her , and taking all her primness and little set ways into consideration , it was quite impossible to picture her as the wife of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson , or anybody else .
We soon discovered that , to Aunt Olivia , Mr. Malcolm MacPherson represented a merely abstract proposition -- the man who was to confer on her the long-withheld dignity of matronhood .
Her romance began and ended there , although she was quite unconscious of this herself , and believed that she was deeply in love with him .
`` What will be the result , Mary , when he arrives in the flesh and she is compelled to deal with ` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ' as a real , live man , instead of a nebulous ` party of the second part ' in the marriage ceremony ? ''
queried Peggy , as she hemmed table-napkins for Aunt Olivia , sitting on her well-scoured sandstone steps , and carefully putting all thread-clippings and ravellings into the little basket which Aunt Olivia had placed there for that purpose .
`` It may transform her from a self-centered old maid into a woman for whom marriage does not seem such an incongruous thing , '' I said .
The day on which Mr. Malcolm MacPherson was expected Peggy and I went over .
We had planned to remain away , thinking that the lovers would prefer their first meeting to be unwitnessed , but Aunt Olivia insisted on our being present .
She was plainly nervous ; the abstract was becoming concrete .
Her little house was in spotless , speckless order from top to bottom .
Aunt Olivia had herself scrubbed the garret floor and swept the cellar steps that very morning with as much painstaking care as if she expected that Mr. Malcolm MacPherson would hasten to inspect each at once and she must stand or fall by his opinion of them .
Peggy and I helped her to dress .
She insisted on wearing her best black silk , in which she looked unnaturally fine .
Her soft muslin became her much better , but we could not induce her to wear it .
Anything more prim and bandboxy than Aunt Olivia when her toilet was finished it has never been my lot to see .
Peggy and I watched her as she went downstairs , her skirt held stiffly up all around her that it might not brush the floor . ''
` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson ' will be inspired with such awe that he will only be able to sit back and gaze at her , '' whispered Peggy .
`` I wish he would come and have it over .
This is getting on my nerves . ''
Aunt Olivia went into the parlour , settled herself in the old carved chair , and folded her hands .
Peggy and I sat down on the stairs to await his coming in a crisping suspense .
Aunt Olivia 's kitten , a fat , bewhiskered creature , looking as if it were cut out of black velvet , shared our vigil and purred in maddening peace of mind .
We could see the garden path and gate through the hall window , and therefore supposed we should have full warning of the approach of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
It was no wonder , therefore , that we positively jumped when a thunderous knock crashed against the front door and re-echoed through the house .
Had Mr. Malcolm MacPherson dropped from the skies ?
We afterwards discovered that he had come across lots and around the house from the back , but just then his sudden advent was almost uncanny .
I ran downstairs and opened the door .
On the step stood a man about six feet two in height , and proportionately broad and sinewy .
He had splendid shoulders , a great crop of curly black hair , big , twinkling blue eyes , and a tremendous crinkly black beard that fell over his breast in shining waves .
In brief , Mr. Malcolm MacPherson was what one would call instinctively , if somewhat tritely , `` a magnificent specimen of manhood . ''
In one hand he carried a bunch of early goldenrod and smoke-blue asters .
`` Good afternoon , '' he said in a resonant voice which seemed to take possession of the drowsy summer afternoon .
`` Is Miss Olivia Sterling in ?
And will you please tell her that Malcolm MacPherson is here ? ''
I showed him into the parlour .
Then Peggy and I peeped through the crack of the door .
Anyone would have done it .
We would have scorned to excuse ourselves .
And , indeed , what we saw would have been worth several conscience spasms if we had felt any .
Aunt Olivia arose and advanced primly , with outstretched hand .
`` Mr. MacPherson , I am very glad to see you , '' she said formally .
`` It 's yourself , Nillie ! ''
Mr. Malcolm MacPherson gave two strides .
He dropped his flowers on the floor , knocked over a small table , and sent the ottoman spinning against the wall .
Then he caught Aunt Olivia in his arms and -- smack , smack , smack !
Peggy sank back upon the stair-step with her handkerchief stuffed in her mouth .
Aunt Olivia was being kissed !
Presently , Mr. Malcolm MacPherson held her back at arm 's length in his big paws and looked her over .
I saw Aunt Olivia 's eyes roam over his arm to the inverted table and the litter of asters and goldenrod .
Her sleek crimps were all ruffled up , and her lace fichu twisted half around her neck .
She looked distressed .
`` It 's not a bit changed you are , Nillie , '' said Mr. Malcolm MacPherson admiringly .
`` And it 's good I 'm feeling to see you again .
Are you glad to see me , Nillie ? ''
`` Oh , of course , '' said Aunt Olivia .
She twisted herself free and went to set up the table .
Then she turned to the flowers , but Mr. Malcolm MacPherson had already gathered them up , leaving a goodly sprinkling of leaves and stalks on the carpet .
`` I picked these for you in the river field , Nillie , '' he said .
`` Where will I be getting something to stick them in ?
Here , this will do . ''
He grasped a frail , painted vase on the mantel , stuffed the flowers in it , and set it on the table .
The look on Aunt Olivia 's face was too much for me at last .
I turned , caught Peggy by the shoulder and dragged her out of the house .
`` He will horrify the very soul out of Aunt Olivia 's body if he goes on like this , '' I gasped .
`` But he 's splendid -- and he thinks the world of her -- and , oh , Peggy , did you EVER hear such kisses ?
Fancy Aunt Olivia ! ''
It did not take us long to get well acquainted with Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
He almost haunted Aunt Olivia 's house , and Aunt Olivia insisted on our staying with her most of the time .
She seemed to be very shy of finding herself alone with him .
He horrified her a dozen times in an hour ; nevertheless , she was very proud of him , and liked to be teased about him , too .
She was delighted that we admired him .
`` Though , to be sure , he is very different in his looks from what he used to be , '' she said .
`` He is so dreadfully big !
And I do not like a beard , but I have not the courage to ask him to shave it off .
He might be offended .
He has bought the old Lynde place in Avonlea and wants to be married in a month .
But , dear me , that is too soon .
It -- it would be hardly proper . ''
Peggy and I liked Mr. Malcolm MacPherson very much .
So did father .
We were glad that he seemed to think Aunt Olivia perfection .
He was as happy as the day was long ; but poor Aunt Olivia , under all her surface pride and importance , was not .
Amid all the humour of the circumstances Peggy and I snuffed tragedy compounded with the humour .
Mr. Malcolm MacPherson could never be trained to old-maidishness , and even Aunt Olivia seemed to realize this .
He never stopped to clear his boots when he came in , although she had an ostentatiously new scraper put at each door for his benefit .
He seldom moved in the house without knocking some of Aunt Olivia 's treasures over .
He smoked cigars in her parlour and scattered the ashes over the floor .
He brought her flowers every day and stuck them into whatever receptacle came handiest .
He sat on her cushions and rolled her antimacassars up into balls .
He put his feet on her chair rungs -- and all with the most distracting unconsciousness of doing anything out of the way .
He never noticed Aunt Olivia 's fluttering nervousness at all .
Peggy and I laughed more than was good for us those days .
It was so funny to see Aunt Olivia hovering anxiously around , picking up flower stems , and smoothing out tidies , and generally following him about to straighten out things .
Once she even got a wing and dustpan and swept the cigar ashes under his very eyes .
`` Now do n't be worrying yourself over that , Nillie , '' he protested .
`` Why , I do n't mind a litter , bless you ! ''
How good and jolly he was , that Mr. Malcolm MacPherson !
Such songs as he sang , such stories as he told , such a breezy , unconventional atmosphere as he brought into that prim little house , where stagnant dullness had reigned for years !
He worshipped Aunt Olivia , and his worship took the concrete form of presents galore .
He brought her a present almost every visit -- generally some article of jewelry .
Bracelets , rings , chains , ear-drops , lockets , bangles , were showered upon our precise little aunt ; she accepted them deprecatingly , but never wore them .
This hurt him a little , but she assured him she would wear them all sometimes .
`` I am not used to jewelry , Mr. MacPherson , '' she would tell him .
Her engagement ring she did wear -- it was a rather `` loud '' combination of engraved gold and opals .
Sometimes we caught her turning it on her finger with a very troubled face .
`` I would be sorry for Mr. Malcolm MacPherson if he were not so much in love with her , '' said Peggy .
`` But as he thinks that she is perfection he does n't need sympathy . ''
`` I am sorry for Aunt Olivia , '' I said .
`` Yes , Peggy , I am .
Mr. MacPherson is a splendid man , but Aunt Olivia is a born old maid , and it is outraging her very nature to be anything else .
Do n't you see how it 's hurting her ?
His big , splendid man-ways are harrowing her very soul up -- she ca n't get out of her little , narrow groove , and it is killing her to be pulled out . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Peggy .
Then she added with a laugh , `` Mary , did you ever see anything so funny as Aunt Olivia sitting on ` Mr. Malcolm MacPherson 's ' knee ? ''
It WAS funny .
Aunt Olivia thought it very unbecoming to sit there before us , but he made her do it .
He would say , with his big , jolly laugh , `` Do n't be minding the little girls , '' and pull her down on his knee and hold her there .
To my dying day I shall never forget the expression on the poor little woman 's face .
But , as the days went by and Mr. Malcolm MacPherson began to insist on a date being set for the wedding , Aunt Olivia grew to have a strangely disturbed look .
She became very quiet , and never laughed except under protest .
Also , she showed signs of petulance when any of us , but especially father , teased her about her beau .
I pitied her , for I think I understood better than the others what her feelings really were .
But even I was not prepared for what did happen .
I would not have believed that Aunt Olivia could do it .
I thought that her desire for marriage in the abstract would outweigh the disadvantages of the concrete .
But one can never reckon with real , bred-in-the-bone old-maidism .
One morning Mr. Malcolm MacPherson told us all that he was coming up that evening to make Aunt Olivia set the day .
Peggy and I laughingly approved , telling him that it was high time for him to assert his authority , and he went off in great good humour across the river field , whistling a Highland strathspey .
But Aunt Olivia looked like a martyr .
She had a fierce attack of housecleaning that day , and put everything in flawless order , even to the corners .
`` As if there was going to be a funeral in the house , '' sniffed Peggy .
Peggy and I were up in the south-west room at dusk that evening , piecing a quilt , when we heard Mr. Malcolm MacPherson shouting out in the hall below to know if anyone was home .
I ran out to the landing , but as I did so Aunt Olivia came out of her room , brushed past me , and flitted downstairs .
`` Mr. MacPherson , '' I heard her say with double-distilled primness , `` will you please come into the parlour ?
I have something to say to you . ''
They went in , and I returned to the south-west room .
`` Peg , there 's trouble brewing , '' I said .
`` I 'm sure of it by Aunt Olivia 's face , it was GRAY .
And she has gone down ALONE -- and shut the door . ''
`` I am going to hear what she says to him , '' said Peggy resolutely .
`` It is her own fault -- she has spoiled us by always insisting that we should be present at their interviews .
That poor man has had to do his courting under our very eyes .
Come on , Mary . ''
The south-west room was directly over the parlour and there was an open stovepipe-hole leading up therefrom .
Peggy removed the hat box that was on it , and we both deliberately and shamelessly crouched down and listened with all our might .
It was easy enough to hear what Mr. Malcolm MacPherson was saying .
`` I 've come up to get the date settled , Nillie , as I told you .
Come now , little woman , name the day . ''
SMACK !
`` Do n't , Mr. MacPherson , '' said Aunt Olivia .
She spoke as a woman who has keyed herself up to the doing of some very distasteful task and is anxious to have it over and done with as soon as possible .
`` There is something I must say to you .
I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson . ''
There was a pause .
I would have given much to have seen the pair of them .
When Mr. Malcolm MacPherson spoke his voice was that of blank , uncomprehending amazement .
`` Nillie , what is it you are meaning ? ''
he said .
`` I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson , '' repeated Aunt Olivia .
`` Why not ? ''
Surprise was giving way to dismay .
`` I do n't think you will understand , Mr. MacPherson , '' said Aunt Olivia , faintly .
`` You do n't realize what it means for a woman to give up everything -- her own home and friends and all her past life , so to speak , and go far away with a stranger . ''
`` Why , I suppose it will be rather hard .
But , Nillie , Avonlea is n't very far away -- not more than twelve miles , if it will be that . ''
`` Twelve miles !
It might as well be at the other side of the world to all intents and purposes , '' said Aunt Olivia obstinately .
`` I do n't know a living soul there , except Rachel Lynde . ''
`` Why did n't you say so before I bought the place , then ?
But it 's not too late .
I can be selling it and buying right here in East Grafton if that will please you -- though there is n't half as nice a place to be had .
But I 'll fix it up somehow ! ''
`` No , Mr. MacPherson , '' said Aunt Olivia firmly , `` that does n't cover the difficulty .
I knew you would not understand .
My ways are not your ways and I can not make them over .
For -- you track mud in -- and -- and -- you do n't care whether things are tidy or not . ''
Poor Aunt Olivia had to be Aunt Olivia ; if she were being burned at the stake I verily believe she would have dragged some grotesqueness into the tragedy of the moment .
`` The devil ! ''
said Mr. Malcolm MacPherson -- not profanely or angrily , but as in sheer bewilderment .
Then he added , `` Nillie , you must be joking .
It 's careless enough I am -- the west is n't a good place to learn finicky ways -- but you can teach me .
You 're not going to throw me over because I track mud in ! ''
`` I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson , '' said Aunt Olivia again .
`` You ca n't be meaning it ! ''
he exclaimed , because he was beginning to understand that she did mean it , although it was impossible for his man mind to understand anything else about the puzzle .
`` Nillie , it 's breaking my heart you are !
I 'll do anything -- go anywhere -- be anything you want -- only do n't be going back on me like this . ''
`` I can not marry you , Mr. MacPherson , '' said Aunt Olivia for the fourth time .
`` Nillie ! ''
exclaimed Mr. Malcolm MacPherson .
There was such real agony in his tone that Peggy and I were suddenly stricken with contrition .
What were we doing ?
We had no right to be listening to this pitiful interview .
The pain and protest in his voice had suddenly banished all the humour from it , and left naught but the bare , stark tragedy .
We rose and tiptoed out of the room , wholesomely ashamed of ourselves .
When Mr. Malcolm MacPherson had gone , after an hour of useless pleading , Aunt Olivia came up to us , pale and prim and determined , and told us that there was to be no wedding .
We could not pretend surprise , but Peggy ventured a faint protest .
`` Oh , Aunt Olivia , do you think you have done right ? ''
`` It was the only thing I could do , '' said Aunt Olivia stonily .
`` I could not marry Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and I told him so .
Please tell your father -- and kindly say nothing more to me about the matter . ''
Then Aunt Olivia went downstairs , got a broom , and swept up the mud Mr. Malcolm MacPherson had tracked over the steps .
Peggy and I went home and told father .
We felt very flat , but there was nothing to be done or said .
Father laughed at the whole thing , but I could not laugh .
I was sorry for Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and , though I was angry with her , I was sorry for Aunt Olivia , too .
Plainly she felt badly enough over her vanished hopes and plans , but she had developed a strange and baffling reserve which nothing could pierce .
`` It 's nothing but a chronic case of old-maidism , '' said father impatiently .
Things were very dull for a week .
We saw no more of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and we missed him dreadfully .
Aunt Olivia was inscrutable , and worked with fierceness at superfluous tasks .
One evening father came home with some news .
`` Malcolm MacPherson is leaving on the 7:30 train for the west , '' he said .
`` He has rented the Avonlea place and he 's off .
They say he is mad as a hatter at the trick Olivia played on him . ''
After tea Peggy and I went over to see Aunt Olivia , who had asked our advice about a wrapper .
She was sewing as for dear life , and her face was primmer and colder than ever .
I wondered if she knew of Mr. Malcolm MacPherson 's departure .
Delicacy forbade me to mention it but Peggy had no such scruples .
`` Well , Aunt Olivia , your beau is off , '' she announced cheerfully .
`` You wo n't be bothered with him again .
He is leaving on the mail train for the west . ''
Aunt Olivia dropped her sewing and stood up .
I have never seen anything like the transformation that came over her .
It was so thorough and sudden as to be almost uncanny .
The old maid vanished completely , and in her place was a woman , full to the lips with primitive emotion and pain .
`` What shall I do ? ''
she cried in a terrible voice .
`` Mary -- Peggy -- what shall I do ? ''
It was almost a shriek .
Peggy turned pale .
`` Do you care ? ''
she said stupidly .
`` Care !
Girls , I shall DIE if Malcolm MacPherson goes away !
I have been mad -- I must have been mad .
I have almost died of loneliness since I sent him away .
But I thought he would come back !
I must see him -- there is time to reach the station before the train goes if I go by the fields . ''
She took a wild step towards the door , but I caught her back with a sudden mind-vision of Aunt Olivia flying bareheaded and distraught across the fields .
`` Wait a moment , Aunt Olivia .
Peggy , run home and get father to harness Dick in the buggy as quickly as he can .
We 'll drive Aunt Olivia to the station .
We 'll get you there in time , Aunty . ''
Peggy flew , and Aunt Olivia dashed upstairs .
I lingered behind to pick up her sewing , and when I got to her room she had her hat and cape on .
Spread out on the bed were all the boxes of gifts which Mr. Malcolm MacPherson had brought her , and Aunt Olivia was stringing their contents feverishly about her person .
Rings , three brooches , a locket , three chains and a watch all went on -- anyway and anyhow .
A wonderful sight it was to see Aunt Olivia bedizened like that !
`` I would never wear them before -- but I 'll put them all on now to show him I 'm sorry , '' she gasped , with trembling lips .
When the three of us crowded into the buggy , Aunt Olivia grasped the whip before we could prevent her and , leaning out , gave poor Dick such a lash as he had never felt in his life before .
He went tearing down the steep , stony , fast-darkening road in a fashion which made Peggy and me cry out in alarm .
Aunt Olivia was usually the most timid of women , but now she did n't seem to know what fear was .
She kept whipping and urging poor Dick the whole way to the station , quite oblivious to our assurances that there was plenty of time .
The people who met us that night must have thought we were quite mad .
I held on the reins , Peggy gripped the swaying side of the buggy , and Aunt Olivia bent forward , hat and hair blowing back from her set face with its strangely crimson cheeks , and plied the whip .
In such a guise did we whirl through the village and over the two-mile station road .
When we drove up to the station , where the train was shunting amid the shadows , Aunt Olivia made a flying leap from the buggy and ran along the platform , with her cape streaming behind her and all her brooches and chains glittering in the lights .
I tossed the reins to a boy standing near and we followed .
Just under the glare of the station lamp we saw Mr. Malcolm MacPherson , grip in hand .
Fortunately no one else was very near , but it would have been all the same had they been the centre of a crowd .
Aunt Olivia fairly flung herself against him .
`` Malcolm , '' she cried , `` do n't go -- do n't go -- I 'll marry you -- I 'll go anywhere -- and I do n't care how much mud you bring in ! ''
That truly Aunt Olivia touch relieved the tension of the situation a little .
Mr. MacPherson put his arm about her and drew her back into the shadows .
`` There , there , '' he soothed .
`` Of course I wo n't be going .
Do n't cry , Nillie-girl . ''
`` And you 'll come right back with me now ? ''
implored Aunt Olivia , clinging to him as if she feared he would be whisked away from her yet if she let go for a moment .
`` Of course , of course , '' he said .
Peggy got a chance home with a friend , and Aunt Olivia and Mr. Malcolm MacPherson and I drove back in the buggy .
Mr. MacPherson held Aunt Olivia on his knee because there was no room , but she would have sat there , I think , had there been a dozen vacant seats .
She clung to him in the most barefaced fashion , and all her former primness and reserve were swept away completely .
She kissed him a dozen times or more and told him she loved him -- and I did not even smile , nor did I want to .
Somehow , it did not seem in the least funny to me then , nor does it now , although it doubtless will to others .
There was too much real intensity of feeling in it all to leave any room for the ridiculous .
So wrapped up in each other were they that I did not even feel superfluous .
I set them safely down in Aunt Olivia 's yard and turned homeward , completely forgotten by the pair .
But in the moonlight , which flooded the front of the house , I saw something that testified eloquently to the transformation in Aunt Olivia .
It had rained that afternoon and the yard was muddy .
Nevertheless , she went in at her front door and took Mr. Malcolm MacPherson in with her without even a glance at the scraper !
VIII .
The Quarantine at Alexander Abraham 's I refused to take that class in Sunday School the first time I was asked .
It was not that I objected to teaching in the Sunday School .
On the contrary I rather liked the idea ; but it was the Rev. Mr. Allan who asked me , and it had always been a matter of principle with me never to do anything a man asked me to do if I could help it .
I was noted for that .
It saves a great deal of trouble and it simplifies everything beautifully .
I had always disliked men .
It must have been born in me , because , as far back as I can remember , an antipathy to men and dogs was one of my strongest characteristics .
I was noted for that .
My experiences through life only served to deepen it .
The more I saw of men , the more I liked cats .
So , of course , when the Rev. Allan asked me if I would consent to take a class in Sunday School , I said no in a fashion calculated to chasten him wholesomely .
If he had sent his wife the first time , as he did the second , it would have been wiser .
People generally do what Mrs. Allan asks them to do because they know it saves time .
Mrs. Allan talked smoothly for half an hour before she mentioned the Sunday School , and paid me several compliments .
Mrs. Allan is famous for her tact .
Tact is a faculty for meandering around to a given point instead of making a bee-line .
I have no tact .
I am noted for that .
As soon as Mrs. Allan 's conversation came in sight of the Sunday School , I , who knew all along whither it was tending , said , straight out , `` What class do you want me to teach ? ''
Mrs. Allan was so surprised that she forgot to be tactful , and answered plainly for once in her life , `` There are two classes -- one of boys and one of girls -- needing a teacher .
I have been teaching the girls ' class , but I shall have to give it up for a little time on account of the baby 's health .
You may have your choice , Miss MacPherson . ''
`` Then I shall take the boys , '' I said decidedly .
I am noted for my decision .
`` Since they have to grow up to be men it 's well to train them properly betimes .
Nuisances they are bound to become under any circumstances ; but if they are taken in hand young enough they may not grow up to be such nuisances as they otherwise would and that will be some unfortunate woman 's gain . ''
Mrs. Allan looked dubious .
I knew she had expected me to choose the girls .
`` They are a very wild set of boys , '' she said .
`` I never knew boys who were n't , '' I retorted .
`` I -- I -- think perhaps you would like the girls best , '' said Mrs. Allan hesitatingly .
If it had not been for one thing -- which I would never in this world have admitted to Mrs. Allan -- I might have liked the girls ' class best myself .
But the truth was , Anne Shirley was in that class ; and Anne Shirley was the one living human being that I was afraid of .
Not that I disliked her .
But she had such a habit of asking weird , unexpected questions , which a Philadelphia lawyer could n't answer .
Miss Rogerson had that class once and Anne routed her , horse , foot and artillery .
I was n't going to undertake a class with a walking interrogation point in it like that .
Besides , I thought Mrs. Allan required a slight snub .
Ministers ' wives are rather apt to think they can run everything and everybody , if they are not wholesomely corrected now and again .
`` It is not what I like best that must be considered , Mrs. Allan , '' I said rebukingly .
`` It is what is best for those boys .
I feel that I shall be best for THEM . ''
`` Oh , I 've no doubt of that , Miss MacPherson , '' said Mrs. Allan amiably .
It was a fib for her , minister 's wife though she was .
She HAD doubt .
She thought I would be a dismal failure as teacher of a boys ' class .
But I was not .
I am not often a dismal failure when I make up my mind to do a thing .
I am noted for that .
`` It is wonderful what a reformation you have worked in that class , Miss MacPherson -- wonderful , '' said the Rev. Mr. Allan some weeks later .
He did n't mean to show how amazing a thing he thought it that an old maid noted for being a man hater should have managed it , but his face betrayed him .
`` Where does Jimmy Spencer live ? ''
I asked him crisply .
`` He came one Sunday three weeks ago and has n't been back since .
I mean to find out why . ''
Mr. Allan coughed .
`` I believe he is hired as handy boy with Alexander Abraham Bennett , out on the White Sands road , '' he said .
`` Then I am going out to Alexander Abraham Bennett 's on the White Sands road to see why Jimmy Spencer does n't come to Sunday school , '' I said firmly .
Mr. Allan 's eyes twinkled ever so slightly .
I have always insisted that if that man were not a minister he would have a sense of humour .
`` Possibly Mr. Bennett will not appreciate your kind interest !
He has -- ah -- a singular aversion to your sex , I understand .
No woman has ever been known to get inside of Mr. Bennett 's house since his sister died twenty years ago . ''
`` Oh , he is the one , is he ? ''
I said , remembering .
`` He is the woman hater who threatens that if a woman comes into his yard he 'll chase her out with a pitch-fork .
Well , he will not chase ME out ! ''
Mr. Allan gave a chuckle -- a ministerial chuckle , but still a chuckle .
It irritated me slightly , because it seemed to imply that he thought Alexander Abraham Bennett would be one too many for me .
But I did not show Mr. Allan that he annoyed me .
It is always a great mistake to let a man see that he can vex you .
The next afternoon I harnessed my sorrel pony to the buggy and drove down to Alexander Abraham Bennett 's .
As usual , I took William Adolphus with me for company .
William Adolphus is my favourite among my six cats .
He is black , with a white dicky and beautiful white paws .
He sat up on the seat beside me and looked far more like a gentleman than many a man I 've seen in a similar position .
Alexander Abraham 's place was about three miles along the White Sands road .
I knew the house as soon as I came to it by its neglected appearance .
It needed paint badly ; the blinds were crooked and torn ; weeds grew up to the very door .
Plainly , there was no woman about THAT place .
Still , it was a nice house , and the barns were splendid .
My father always said that when a man 's barns were bigger than his house it was a sign that his income exceeded his expenditure .
So it was all right that they should be bigger ; but it was all wrong that they should be trimmer and better painted .
Still , thought I , what else could you expect of a woman hater ?
`` But Alexander Abraham evidently knows how to run a farm , even it he is a woman hater , '' I remarked to William Adolphus as I got out and tied the pony to the railing .
I had driven up to the house from the back way and now I was opposite a side door opening on the veranda .
I thought I might as well go to it , so I tucked William Adolphus under my arm and marched up the path .
Just as I was half-way up , a dog swooped around the front corner and made straight for me .
He was the ugliest dog I had ever seen ; and he did n't even bark -- just came silently and speedily on , with a business-like eye .
I never stop to argue matters with a dog that does n't bark .
I know when discretion is the better part of valour .
Firmly clasping William Adolphus , I ran -- not to the door , because the dog was between me and it , but to a big , low-branching cherry tree at the back corner of the house .
I reached it in time and no more .
First thrusting William Adolphus on to a limb above my head , I scrambled up into that blessed tree without stopping to think how it might look to Alexander Abraham if he happened to be watching .
My time for reflection came when I found myself perched half way up the tree with William Adolphus beside me .
William Adolphus was quite calm and unruffled .
I can hardly say with truthfulness what I was .
On the contrary , I admit that I felt considerably upset .
The dog was sitting on his haunches on the ground below , watching us , and it was quite plain to be seen , from his leisurely manner , that it was not his busy day .
He bared his teeth and growled when he caught my eye .
`` You LOOK like a woman hater 's dog , '' I told him .
I meant it for an insult ; but the beast took it for a compliment .
Then I set myself to solving the question , `` How am I to get out of this predicament ? ''
It did not seem easy to solve it .
`` Shall I scream , William Adolphus ? ''
I demanded of that intelligent animal .
William Adolphus shook his head .
This is a fact .
And I agreed with him .
`` No , I shall not scream , William Adolphus , '' I said .
`` There is probably no one to hear me except Alexander Abraham , and I have my painful doubts about his tender mercies .
Now , it is impossible to go down .
Is it , then , William Adolphus , possible to go up ? ''
I looked up .
Just above my head was an open window with a tolerably stout branch extending right across it .
`` Shall we try that way , William Adolphus ? ''
I asked .
William Adolphus , wasting no words , began to climb the tree .
I followed his example .
The dog ran in circles about the tree and looked things not lawful to be uttered .
It probably would have been a relief to him to bark if it had n't been so against his principles .
I got in by the window easily enough , and found myself in a bedroom the like of which for disorder and dust and general awfulness I had never seen in all my life .
But I did not pause to take in details .
With William Adolphus under my arm I marched downstairs , fervently hoping I should meet no one on the way .
I did not .
The hall below was empty and dusty .
I opened the first door I came to and walked boldly in .
A man was sitting by the window , looking moodily out .
I should have known him for Alexander Abraham anywhere .
He had just the same uncared-for , ragged appearance that the house had ; and yet , like the house , it seemed that he would not be bad looking if he were trimmed up a little .
His hair looked as if it had never been combed , and his whiskers were wild in the extreme .
He looked at me with blank amazement in his countenance .
`` Where is Jimmy Spencer ? ''
I demanded .
`` I have come to see him . ''
`` How did he ever let you in ? ''
asked the man , staring at me .
`` He did n't let me in , '' I retorted .
`` He chased me all over the lawn , and I only saved myself from being torn piecemeal by scrambling up a tree .
You ought to be prosecuted for keeping such a dog !
Where is Jimmy ? ''
Instead of answering Alexander Abraham began to laugh in a most unpleasant fashion .
`` Trust a woman for getting into a man 's house if she has made up her mind to , '' he said disagreeably .
Seeing that it was his intention to vex me I remained cool and collected .
`` Oh , I was n't particular about getting into your house , Mr. Bennett , '' I said calmly .
`` I had but little choice in the matter .
It was get in lest a worse fate befall me .
It was not you or your house I wanted to see -- although I admit that it is worth seeing if a person is anxious to find out how dirty a place CAN be .
It was Jimmy .
For the third and last time -- where is Jimmy ? ''
`` Jimmy is not here , '' said Mr. Bennett gruffly -- but not quite so assuredly .
`` He left last week and hired with a man over at Newbridge . ''
`` In that case , '' I said , picking up William Adolphus , who had been exploring the room with a disdainful air , `` I wo n't disturb you any longer .
I shall go . ''
`` Yes , I think it would be the wisest thing , '' said Alexander Abraham -- not disagreeably this time , but reflectively , as if there was some doubt about the matter .
`` I 'll let you out by the back door .
Then the -- ahem !
-- the dog will not interfere with you .
Please go away quietly and quickly . ''
I wondered if Alexander Abraham thought I would go away with a whoop .
But I said nothing , thinking this the most dignified course of conduct , and I followed him out to the kitchen as quickly and quietly as he could have wished .
Such a kitchen !
Alexander Abraham opened the door -- which was locked -- just as a buggy containing two men drove into the yard .
`` Too late ! ''
he exclaimed in a tragic tone .
I understood that something dreadful must have happened , but I did not care , since , as I fondly supposed , it did not concern me .
I pushed out past Alexander Abraham -- who was looking as guilty as if he had been caught burglarizing -- and came face to face with the man who had sprung from the buggy .
It was old Dr. Blair , from Carmody , and he was looking at me as if he had found me shoplifting .
`` My dear Peter , '' he said gravely , `` I am VERY sorry to see you here -- very sorry indeed . ''
I admit that this exasperated me .
Besides , no man on earth , not even my own family doctor , has any right to `` My dear Peter '' me !
`` There is no loud call for sorrow , doctor , '' I said loftily .
`` If a woman , forty-eight years of age , a member of the Presbyterian church in good and regular standing , can not call upon one of her Sunday School scholars without wrecking all the proprieties , how old must she be before she can ? ''
The doctor did not answer my question .
Instead , he looked reproachfully at Alexander Abraham .
`` Is this how you keep your word , Mr. Bennett ? ''
he said .
`` I thought that you promised me that you would not let anyone into the house . ''
`` I did n't let her in , '' growled Mr. Bennett .
`` Good heavens , man , she climbed in at an upstairs window , despite the presence on my grounds of a policeman and a dog !
What is to be done with a woman like that ? ''
`` I do not understand what all this means , '' I said addressing myself to the doctor and ignoring Alexander Abraham entirely , `` but if my presence here is so extremely inconvenient to all concerned , you can soon be relieved of it .
I am going at once . ''
`` I am very sorry , my dear Peter , '' said the doctor impressively , `` but that is just what I can not allow you to do .
This house is under quarantine for smallpox .
You will have to stay here . ''
Smallpox !
For the first and last time in my life , I openly lost my temper with a man .
I wheeled furiously upon Alexander Abraham .
`` Why did n't you tell me ? ''
I cried .
`` Tell you ! ''
he said , glaring at me .
`` When I first saw you it was too late to tell you .
I thought the kindest thing I could do was to hold my tongue and let you get away in happy ignorance .
This will teach you to take a man 's house by storm , madam ! ''
`` Now , now , do n't quarrel , my good people , '' interposed the doctor seriously -- but I saw a twinkle in his eye .
`` You 'll have to spend some time together under the same roof and you wo n't improve the situation by disagreeing .
You see , Peter , it was this way .
Mr. Bennett was in town yesterday -- where , as you are aware , there is a bad outbreak of smallpox -- and took dinner in a boarding-house where one of the maids was ill .
Last night she developed unmistakable symptoms of smallpox .
The Board of Health at once got after all the people who were in the house yesterday , so far as they could locate them , and put them under quarantine .
I came down here this morning and explained the matter to Mr. Bennett .
I brought Jeremiah Jeffries to guard the front of the house and Mr. Bennett gave me his word of honour that he would not let anyone in by the back way while I went to get another policeman and make all the necessary arrangements .
I have brought Thomas Wright and have secured the services of another man to attend to Mr. Bennett 's barn work and bring provisions to the house .
Jacob Green and Cleophas Lee will watch at night .
I do n't think there is much danger of Mr. Bennett 's taking the smallpox , but until we are sure you must remain here , Peter . ''
While listening to the doctor I had been thinking .
It was the most distressing predicament I had ever got into in my life , but there was no sense in making it worse .
`` Very well , doctor , '' I said calmly .
`` Yes , I was vaccinated a month ago , when the news of the smallpox first came .
When you go back through Avonlea kindly go to Sarah Pye and ask her to live in my house during my absence and look after things , especially the cats .
Tell her to give them new milk twice a day and a square inch of butter apiece once a week .
Get her to put my two dark print wrappers , some aprons , and some changes of underclothing in my third best valise and have it sent down to me .
My pony is tied out there to the fence .
Please take him home .
That is all , I think . ''
`` No , it is n't all , '' said Alexander Abraham grumpily .
`` Send that cat home , too .
I wo n't have a cat around the place -- I 'd rather have smallpox . ''
I looked Alexander Abraham over gradually , in a way I have , beginning at his feet and traveling up to his head .
I took my time over it ; and then I said , very quietly .
`` You may have both .
Anyway , you 'll have to have William Adolphus .
He is under quarantine as well as you and I. Do you suppose I am going to have my cat ranging at large through Avonlea , scattering smallpox germs among innocent people ?
I 'll have to put up with that dog of yours .
You will have to endure William Adolphus . ''
Alexander Abraham groaned , but I could see that the way I had looked him over had chastened him considerably .
The doctor drove away , and I went into the house , not choosing to linger outside and be grinned at by Thomas Wright .
I hung my coat up in the hall and laid my bonnet carefully on the sitting-room table , having first dusted a clean place for it with my handkerchief .
I longed to fall upon that house at once and clean it up , but I had to wait until the doctor came back with my wrapper .
I could not clean house in my new suit and a silk shirtwaist .
Alexander Abraham was sitting on a chair looking at me .
Presently he said , `` I am NOT curious -- but will you kindly tell me why the doctor called you Peter ? ''
`` Because that is my name , I suppose , '' I answered , shaking up a cushion for William Adolphus and thereby disturbing the dust of years .
Alexander Abraham coughed gently .
`` Is n't that -- ahem !
-- rather a peculiar name for a woman ? ''
`` It is , '' I said , wondering how much soap , if any , there was in the house .
`` I am NOT curious , '' said Alexander Abraham , `` but would you mind telling me how you came to be called Peter ? ''
`` If I had been a boy my parents intended to call me Peter in honour of a rich uncle .
When I -- fortunately -- turned out to be a girl my mother insisted that I should be called Angelina .
They gave me both names and called me Angelina , but as soon as I grew old enough I decided to be called Peter .
It was bad enough , but not so bad as Angelina . ''
`` I should say it was more appropriate , '' said Alexander Abraham , intending , as I perceived , to be disagreeable .
`` Precisely , '' I agreed calmly .
`` My last name is MacPherson , and I live in Avonlea .
As you are NOT curious , that will be all the information you will need about me . ''
`` Oh ! ''
Alexander Abraham looked as if a light had broken in on him .
`` I 've heard of you .
You -- ah -- pretend to dislike men . ''
Pretend !
Goodness only knows what would have happened to Alexander Abraham just then if a diversion had not taken place .
But the door opened and a dog came in -- THE dog .
I suppose he had got tired waiting under the cherry tree for William Adolphus and me to come down .
He was even uglier indoors than out .
`` Oh , Mr. Riley , Mr. Riley , see what you have let me in for , '' said Alexander Abraham reproachfully .
But Mr. Riley -- since that was the brute 's name -- paid no attention to Alexander Abraham .
He had caught sight of William Adolphus curled up on the cushion , and he started across the room to investigate him .
William Adolphus sat up and began to take notice .
`` Call off that dog , '' I said warningly to Alexander Abraham .
`` Call him off yourself , '' he retorted .
`` Since you 've brought that cat here you can protect him . ''
`` Oh , it was n't for William Adolphus ' sake I spoke , '' I said pleasantly .
`` William Adolphus can protect himself . ''
William Adolphus could and did .
He humped his back , flattened his ears , swore once , and then made a flying leap for Mr. Riley .
William Adolphus landed squarely on Mr. Riley 's brindled back and promptly took fast hold , spitting and clawing and caterwauling .
You never saw a more astonished dog than Mr. Riley .
With a yell of terror he bolted out to the kitchen , out of the kitchen into the hall , through the hall into the room , and so into the kitchen and round again .
With each circuit he went faster and faster , until he looked like a brindled streak with a dash of black and white on top .
Such a racket and commotion I never heard , and I laughed until the tears came into my eyes .
Mr. Riley flew around and around , and William Adolphus held on grimly and clawed .
Alexander Abraham turned purple with rage .
`` Woman , call off that infernal cat before he kills my dog , '' he shouted above the din of yelps and yowls .
`` Oh , he wo n't kill min , '' I said reassuringly , `` and he 's going too fast to hear me if I did call him .
If you can stop the dog , Mr. Bennett , I 'll guarantee to make William Adolphus listen to reason , but there 's no use trying to argue with a lightning flash . ''
Alexander Abraham made a frantic lunge at the brindled streak as it whirled past him , with the result that he overbalanced himself and went sprawling on the floor with a crash .
I ran to help him up , which only seemed to enrage him further .
`` Woman , '' he spluttered viciously , `` I wish you and your fiend of a cat were in -- in -- '' `` In Avonlea , '' I finished quickly , to save Alexander Abraham from committing profanity .
`` So do I , Mr. Bennett , with all my heart .
But since we are not , let us make the best of it like sensible people .
And in future you will kindly remember that my name is Miss MacPherson , NOT Woman ! ''
With this the end came and I was thankful , for the noise those two animals made was so terrific that I expected the policeman would be rushing in , smallpox or no smallpox , to see if Alexander Abraham and I were trying to murder each other .
Mr. Riley suddenly veered in his mad career and bolted into a dark corner between the stove and the wood-box , William Adolphus let go just in time .
There never was any more trouble with Mr. Riley after that .
A meeker , more thoroughly chastened dog you could not find .
William Adolphus had the best of it and he kept it .
Seeing that things had calmed down and that it was five o'clock I decided to get tea .
I told Alexander Abraham that I would prepare it , if he would show me where the eatables were .
`` You need n't mind , '' said Alexander Abraham .
`` I 've been in the habit of getting my own tea for twenty years . ''
`` I daresay .
But you have n't been in the habit of getting mine , '' I said firmly .
`` I would n't eat anything you cooked if I starved to death .
If you want some occupation , you 'd better get some salve and anoint the scratches on that poor dog 's back . ''
Alexander Abraham said something that I prudently did not hear .
Seeing that he had no information to hand out I went on an exploring expedition into the pantry .
The place was awful beyond description , and for the first time a vague sentiment of pity for Alexander Abraham glimmered in my breast .
When a man had to live in such surroundings the wonder was , not that he hated women , but that he did n't hate the whole human race .
But I got up a supper somehow .
I am noted for getting up suppers .
The bread was from the Carmody bakery and I made good tea and excellent toast ; besides , I found a can of peaches in the pantry which , as they were bought , I was n't afraid to eat .
That tea and toast mellowed Alexander Abraham in spite of himself .
He ate the last crust , and did n't growl when I gave William Adolphus all the cream that was left .
Mr. Riley did not seem to want anything .
He had no appetite .
By this time the doctor 's boy had arrived with my valise .
Alexander Abraham gave me quite civilly to understand that there was a spare room across the hall and that I might take possession of it .
I went to it and put on a wrapper .
There was a set of fine furniture in the room , and a comfortable bed .
But the dust !
William Adolphus had followed me in and his paws left marks everywhere he walked .
`` Now , '' I said briskly , returning to the kitchen , `` I 'm going to clean up and I shall begin with this kitchen .
You 'd better betake yourself to the sitting-room , Mr. Bennett , so as to be out of the way . ''
Alexander Abraham glared at me .
`` I 'm not going to have my house meddled with , '' he snapped .
`` It suits me .
If you do n't like it you can leave it . ''
`` No , I ca n't .
That is just the trouble , '' I said pleasantly .
`` If I could leave it I should n't be here for a minute .
Since I ca n't , it simply has to be cleaned .
I can tolerate men and dogs when I am compelled to , but I can not and will not tolerate dirt and disorder .
Go into the sitting-room . ''
Alexander Abraham went .
As he closed the door , I heard him say , in capitals , `` WHAT AN AWFUL WOMAN ! ''
I cleared that kitchen and the pantry adjoining .
It was ten o'clock when I got through , and Alexander Abraham had gone to bed without deigning further speech .
I locked Mr. Riley in one room and William Adolphus in another and went to bed , too .
I had never felt so dead tired in my life before .
It had been a hard day .
But I got up bright and early the next morning and got a tiptop breakfast , which Alexander Abraham condescended to eat .
When the provision man came into the yard I called to him from the window to bring me a box of soap in the afternoon , and then I tackled the sitting-room .
It took me the best part of a week to get that house in order , but I did it thoroughly .
I am noted for doing things thoroughly .
At the end of the time it was clean from garret to cellar .
Alexander Abraham made no comments on my operations , though he groaned loud and often , and said caustic things to poor Mr. Riley , who had n't the spirit to answer back after his drubbing by William Adolphus .
I made allowances for Alexander Abraham because his vaccination had taken and his arm was real sore ; and I cooked elegant meals , not having much else to do , once I had got things scoured up .
The house was full of provisions -- Alexander Abraham was n't mean about such things , I will say that for him .
Altogether , I was more comfortable than I had expected to be .
When Alexander Abraham would n't talk I let him alone ; and when he would I just said as sarcastic things as he did , only I said them smiling and pleasant .
I could see he had a wholesome awe for me .
But now and then he seemed to forget his disposition and talked like a human being .
We had one or two real interesting conversations .
Alexander Abraham was an intelligent man , though he had got terribly warped .
I told him once I thought he must have been nice when he was a boy .
One day he astonished me by appearing at the dinner table with his hair brushed and a white collar on .
We had a tiptop dinner that day , and I had made a pudding that was far too good for a woman hater .
When Alexander Abraham had disposed of two large platefuls of it , he sighed and said , `` You can certainly cook .
It 's a pity you are such a detestable crank in other respects . ''
`` It 's kind of convenient being a crank , '' I said .
`` People are careful how they meddle with you .
Have n't you found that out in your own experience ? ''
`` I am NOT a crank , '' growled Alexander Abraham resentfully .
`` All I ask is to be let alone . ''
`` That 's the very crankiest kind of crank , '' I said .
`` A person who wants to be let alone flies in the face of Providence , who decreed that folks for their own good were not to be let alone .
But cheer up , Mr. Bennett .
The quarantine will be up on Tuesday and then you 'll certainly be let alone for the rest of your natural life , as far as William Adolphus and I are concerned .
You may then return to your wallowing in the mire and be as dirty and comfortable as of yore . ''
Alexander Abraham growled again .
The prospect did n't seem to cheer him up as much as I should have expected .
Then he did an amazing thing .
He poured some cream into a saucer and set it down before William Adolphus .
William Adolphus lapped it up , keeping one eye on Alexander Abraham lest the latter should change his mind .
Not to be outdone , I handed Mr. Riley a bone .
Neither Alexander Abraham nor I had worried much about the smallpox .
We did n't believe he would take it , for he had n't even seen the girl who was sick .
But the very next morning I heard him calling me from the upstairs landing .
`` Miss MacPherson , '' he said in a voice so uncommonly mild that it gave me an uncanny feeling , `` what are the symptoms of smallpox ? ''
`` Chills and flushes , pain in the limbs and back , nausea and vomiting , '' I answered promptly , for I had been reading them up in a patent medicine almanac .
`` I 've got them all , '' said Alexander Abraham hollowly .
I did n't feel as much scared as I should have expected .
After enduring a woman hater and a brindled dog and the early disorder of that house -- and coming off best with all three -- smallpox seemed rather insignificant .
I went to the window and called to Thomas Wright to send for the doctor .
The doctor came down from Alexander Abraham 's room looking grave .
`` It 's impossible to pronounce on the disease yet , '' he said .
`` There is no certainty until the eruption appears .
But , of course , there is every likelihood that it is the smallpox .
It is very unfortunate .
I am afraid that it will be difficult to get a nurse .
All the nurses in town who will take smallpox cases are overbusy now , for the epidemic is still raging there .
However , I 'll go into town to-night and do my best .
Meanwhile , at present , you must not go near him , Peter . ''
I was n't going to take orders from any man , and as soon as the doctor had gone I marched straight up to Alexander Abraham 's room with some dinner for him on a tray .
There was a lemon cream I thought he could eat even if he had the smallpox .
`` You should n't come near me , '' he growled .
`` You are risking your life . ''
`` I am not going to see a fellow creature starve to death , even if he is a man , '' I retorted .
`` The worst of it all , '' groaned Alexander Abraham , between mouthfuls of lemon cream , `` is that the doctor says I 've got to have a nurse .
I 've got so kind of used to you being in the house that I do n't mind you , but the thought of another woman coming here is too much .
Did you give my poor dog anything to eat ? ''
`` He has had a better dinner than many a Christian , '' I said severely .
Alexander Abraham need not have worried about another woman coming in .
The doctor came back that night with care on his brow .
`` I do n't know what is to be done , '' he said .
`` I ca n't get a soul to come here . '' ''
I shall nurse Mr. Bennett , '' I said with dignity .
`` It is my duty and I never shirk my duty .
I am noted for that .
He is a man , and he has smallpox , and he keeps a vile dog ; but I am not going to see him die for lack of care for all that . ''
`` You 're a good soul , Peter , '' said the doctor , looking relieved , manlike , as soon as he found a woman to shoulder the responsibility .
I nursed Alexander Abraham through the smallpox , and I did n't mind it much .
He was much more amiable sick than well , and he had the disease in a very mild form .
Below stairs I reigned supreme and Mr. Riley and William Adolphus lay down together like the lion and the lamb .
I fed Mr. Riley regularly , and once , seeing him looking lonesome , I patted him gingerly .
It was nicer than I thought it would be .
Mr. Riley lifted his head and looked at me with an expression in his eyes which cured me of wondering why on earth Alexander Abraham was so fond of the beast .
When Alexander Abraham was able to sit up , he began to make up for the time he 'd lost being pleasant .
Anything more sarcastic than that man in his convalescence you could n't imagine .
I just laughed at him , having found out that that could be depended on to irritate him .
To irritate him still further I cleaned the house all over again .
But what vexed him most of all was that Mr. Riley took to following me about and wagging what he had of a tail at me .
`` It was n't enough that you should come into my peaceful home and turn it upside down , but you have to alienate the affections of my dog , '' complained Alexander Abraham .
`` He 'll get fond of you again when I go home , '' I said comfortingly .
`` Dogs are n't very particular that way .
What they want is bones .
Cats now , they love disinterestedly .
William Adolphus has never swerved in his allegiance to me , although you do give him cream in the pantry on the sly . ''
Alexander Abraham looked foolish .
He had n't thought I knew that .
I did n't take the smallpox and in another week the doctor came out and sent the policeman home .
I was disinfected and William Adolphus was fumigated , and then we were free to go .
`` Good-bye , Mr. Bennett , '' I said , offering to shake hands in a forgiving spirit .
`` I 've no doubt that you are glad to be rid of me , but you are no gladder than I am to go .
I suppose this house will be dirtier than ever in a month 's time , and Mr. Riley will have discarded the little polish his manners have taken on .
Reformation with men and dogs never goes very deep . ''
With this Parthian shaft I walked out of the house , supposing that I had seen the last of it and Alexander Abraham .
I was glad to get back home , of course ; but it did seem queer and lonesome .
The cats hardly knew me , and William Adolphus roamed about forlornly and appeared to feel like an exile .
I did n't take as much pleasure in cooking as usual , for it seemed kind of foolish to be fussing over oneself .
The sight of a bone made me think of poor Mr. Riley .
The neighbours avoided me pointedly , for they could n't get rid of the fear that I might erupt into smallpox at any moment .
My Sunday School class had been given to another woman , and altogether I felt as if I did n't belong anywhere .
I had existed like this for a fortnight when Alexander Abraham suddenly appeared .
He walked in one evening at dusk , but at first sight I did n't know him he was so spruced and barbered up .
But William Adolphus knew him .
Will you believe it , William Adolphus , my own William Adolphus , rubbed up against that man 's trouser leg with an undisguised purr of satisfaction .
`` I had to come , Angelina , '' said Alexander Abraham .
`` I could n't stand it any longer . ''
`` My name is Peter , '' I said coldly , although I was feeling ridiculously glad about something .
`` It is n't , '' said Alexander Abraham stubbornly .
`` It is Angelina for me , and always will be .
I shall never call you Peter .
Angelina just suits you exactly ; and Angelina Bennett would suit you still better .
You must come back , Angelina .
Mr. Riley is moping for you , and I ca n't get along without somebody to appreciate my sarcasms , now that you have accustomed me to the luxury . ''
`` What about the other five cats ? ''
I demanded .
Alexander Abraham sighed .
`` I suppose they 'll have to come too , '' he sighed , `` though no doubt they 'll chase poor Mr. Riley clean off the premises .
But I can live without him , and I ca n't without you .
How soon can you be ready to marry me ? ''
`` I have n't said that I was going to marry you at all , have I ? ''
I said tartly , just to be consistent .
For I was n't feeling tart .
`` No , but you will , wo n't you ? ''
said Alexander Abraham anxiously .
`` Because if you wo n't , I wish you 'd let me die of the smallpox .
Do , dear Angelina . ''
To think that a man should dare to call me his `` dear Angelina ! ''
And to think that I should n't mind !
`` Where I go , William Adolphus goes , '' I said , `` but I shall give away the other five cats for -- for the sake of Mr. Riley . ''
IX .
Pa Sloane 's Purchase `` I guess the molasses is getting low , ai n't it ? ''
said Pa Sloane insinuatingly .
`` S'pose I 'd better drive up to Carmody this afternoon and get some more . ''
`` There 's a good half-gallon of molasses in the jug yet , '' said ma Sloane ruthlessly .
`` That so ?
Well , I noticed the kerosene demijohn was n't very hefty the last time I filled the can .
Reckon it needs replenishing . ''
`` We have kerosene enough to do for a fortnight yet . ''
Ma continued to eat her dinner with an impassive face , but a twinkle made itself apparent in her eye .
Lest Pa should see it , and feel encouraged thereby , she looked immovably at her plate .
Pa Sloane sighed .
His invention was giving out .
`` Did n't I hear you say day before yesterday that you were out of nutmegs ? ''
he queried , after a few moments ' severe reflection .
`` I got a supply of them from the egg-pedlar yesterday , '' responded Ma , by a great effort preventing the twinkle from spreading over her entire face .
She wondered if this third failure would squelch Pa. .
But Pa was not to be squelched .
`` Well , anyway , '' he said , brightening up under the influence of a sudden saving inspiration .
`` I 'll have to go up to get the sorrel mare shod .
So , if you 've any little errands you want done at the store , Ma , just make a memo of them while I hitch up . ''
The matter of shoeing the sorrel mare was beyond Ma 's province , although she had her own suspicions about the sorrel mare 's need of shoes .
`` Why ca n't you give up beating about the bush , Pa ? ''
she demanded , with contemptuous pity .
`` You might as well own up what 's taking you to Carmody .
I can see through your design .
You want to get away to the Garland auction .
That is what is troubling you , Pa Sloane . ''
`` I dunno but what I might step over , seeing it 's so handy .
But the sorrel mare really does need shoeing , Ma , '' protested Pa. .
`` There 's always something needing to be done if it 's convenient , '' retorted Ma .
`` Your mania for auctions will be the ruin of you yet , Pa. .
A man of fifty-five ought to have grown out of such a hankering .
But the older you get the worse you get .
Anyway , if I wanted to go to auctions , I 'd select them as was something like , and not waste my time on little one-horse affairs like this of Garland 's . ''
`` One might pick up something real cheap at Garland 's , '' said Pa defensively .
`` Well , you are not going to pick up anything , cheap or otherwise , Pa Sloane , because I 'm going with you to see that you do n't .
I know I ca n't stop you from going .
I might as well try to stop the wind from blowing .
But I shall go , too , out of self-defence .
This house is so full now of old clutter and truck that you 've brought home from auctions that I feel as if I was made up out of pieces and left overs . ''
Pa Sloane sighed again .
It was not exhilarating to attend an auction with Ma .
She would never let him bid on anything .
But he realized that Ma 's mind was made up beyond the power of mortal man 's persuasion to alter it , so he went out to hitch up .
Pa Sloane 's dissipation was going to auctions and buying things that nobody else would buy .
Ma Sloane 's patient endeavours of over thirty years had been able to effect only a partial reform .
Sometimes Pa heroically refrained from going to an auction for six months at a time ; then he would break out worse than ever , go to all that took place for miles around , and come home with a wagonful of misfits .
His last exploit had been to bid on an old dasher churn for five dollars -- the boys `` ran things up '' on Pa Sloane for the fun of it -- and bring it home to outraged Ma , who had made her butter for fifteen years in the very latest , most up-to-date barrel churn .
To add insult to injury this was the second dasher churn Pa had bought at auction .
That settled it .
Ma decreed that henceforth she would chaperon Pa when he went to auctions .
But this was the day of Pa 's good angel .
When he drove up to the door where Ma was waiting , a breathless , hatless imp of ten flew into the yard , and hurled himself between Ma and the wagon-step .
`` Oh , Mrs. Sloane , wo n't you come over to our house at once ? ''
he gasped .
`` The baby , he 's got colic , and ma 's just wild , and he 's all black in the face . ''
Ma went , feeling that the stars in their courses fought against a woman who was trying to do her duty by her husband .
But first she admonished Pa. .
`` I shall have to let you go alone .
But I charge you , Pa , not to bid on anything -- on ANYTHING , do you hear ? ''
Pa heard and promised to heed , with every intention of keeping his promise .
Then he drove away joyfully .
On any other occasion Ma would have been a welcome companion .
But she certainly spoiled the flavour of an auction .
When Pa arrived at the Carmody store , he saw that the little yard of the Garland place below the hill was already full of people .
The auction had evidently begun ; so , not to miss any more of it , Pa hurried down .
The sorrel mare could wait for her shoes until afterwards .
Ma had been within bounds when she called the Garland auction a `` one-horse affair . ''
It certainly was very paltry , especially when compared to the big Donaldson auction of a month ago , which Pa still lived over in happy dreams .
Horace Garland and his wife had been poor .
When they died within six weeks of each other , one of consumption and one of pneumonia , they left nothing but debts and a little furniture .
The house had been a rented one .
The bidding on the various poor articles of household gear put up for sale was not brisk , but had an element of resigned determination .
Carmody people knew that these things had to be sold to pay the debts , and they could not be sold unless they were bought .
Still , it was a very tame affair .
A woman came out of the house carrying a baby of about eighteen months in her arms , and sat down on the bench beneath the window .
`` There 's Marthy Blair with the Garland Baby , '' said Robert Lawson to Pa. .
`` I 'd like to know what 's to become of that poor young one ! ''
`` Ai n't there any of the father 's or mother 's folks to take him ? ''
asked Pa. .
`` No .
Horace had no relatives that anybody ever heard of .
Mrs. Horace had a brother ; but he went to Mantioba years ago , and nobody knows where he is now .
Somebody 'll have to take the baby and nobody seems anxious to .
I 've got eight myself , or I 'd think about it .
He 's a fine little chap . ''
Pa , with Ma 's parting admonition ringing in his ears , did not bid on anything , although it will never be known how great was the heroic self-restraint he put on himself , until just at the last , when he did bid on a collection of flower-pots , thinking he might indulge himself to that small extent .
But Josiah Sloane had been commissioned by his wife to bring those flower-pots home to her ; so Pa lost them .
`` There , that 's all , '' said the auctioneer , wiping his face , for the day was very warm for October .
`` There 's nothing more unless we sell the baby . ''
A laugh went through the crowd .
The sale had been a dull affair , and they were ready for some fun .
Someone called out , `` Put him up , Jacob . ''
The joke found favour and the call was repeated hilariously .
Jacob Blair took little Teddy Garland out of Martha 's arms and stood him up on the table by the door , steadying the small chap with one big brown hand .
The baby had a mop of yellow curls , and a pink and white face , and big blue eyes .
He laughed out at the men before him and waved his hands in delight .
Pa Sloane thought he had never seen so pretty a baby .
`` Here 's a baby for sale , '' shouted the auctioneer .
`` A genuine article , pretty near as good as brand-new .
A real live baby , warranted to walk and talk a little .
Who bids ?
A dollar ?
Did I hear anyone mean enough to bid a dollar ?
No , sir , babies do n't come as cheap as that , especially the curly-headed brand . ''
The crowd laughed again .
Pa Sloane , by way of keeping on the joke , cried , `` Four dollars ! ''
Everybody looked at him .
The impression flashed through the crowd that Pa was in earnest , and meant thus to signify his intention of giving the baby a home .
He was well-to-do , and his only son was grown up and married .
`` Six , '' cried out John Clarke from the other side of the yard .
John Clarke lived at White Sands and he and his wife were childless .
That bid of John Clarke 's was Pa 's undoing .
Pa Sloane could not have an enemy ; but a rival he had , and that rival was John Clarke .
Everywhere at auctions John Clarke was wont to bid against Pa. .
At the last auction he had outbid Pa in everything , not having the fear of his wife before his eyes .
Pa 's fighting blood was up in a moment ; he forgot Ma Sloane ; he forgot what he was bidding for ; he forgot everything except a determination that John Clarke should not be victor again .
`` Ten , '' he called shrilly .
`` Fifteen , '' shouted Clarke .
`` Twenty , '' vociferated Pa. .
`` Twenty-five , '' bellowed Clarke .
`` Thirty , '' shrieked Pa. .
He nearly bust a blood-vessel in his shrieking , but he had won .
Clarke turned off with a laugh and a shrug , and the baby was knocked down to Pa Sloane by the auctioneer , who had meanwhile been keeping the crowd in roars of laughter by a quick fire of witticisms .
There had not been such fun at an auction in Carmody for many a long day .
Pa Sloane came , or was pushed , forward .
The baby was put into his arms ; he realized that he was expected to keep it , and he was too dazed to refuse ; besides , his heart went out to the child .
The auctioneer looked doubtfully at the money which Pa laid mutely down .
`` I s ` pose that part was only a joke , '' he said .
`` Not a bit of it , '' said Robert Lawson .
`` All the money wo n't bee too much to pay the debts .
There 's a doctor 's bill , and this will just about pay it . ''
Pa Sloane drove back home , with the sorrel mare still unshod , the baby , and the baby 's meager bundle of clothes .
The baby did not trouble him much ; it had become well used to strangers in the past two months , and promptly fell asleep on his arm ; but Pa Sloane did not enjoy that drive ; at the end of it ; he mentally saw Ma Sloane .
Ma was there , too , waiting for him on the back door-step as he drove into the yard at sunset .
Her face , when she saw the baby , expressed the last degree of amazement .
`` Pa Sloane , '' she demanded , `` whose is that young one , and there did you get it ? ''
`` I -- I -- bought it at the auction , Ma , '' said Pa feebly .
Then he waited for the explosion .
None came .
This last exploit of Pa 's was too much for Ma .
With a gasp she snatched the baby from Pa 's arms , and ordered him to go out and put the mare in .
When Pa returned to the kitchen Ma had set the baby on the sofa , fenced him around with chairs so that he could n't fall off and given him a molassed cooky .
`` Now , Pa Sloane , you can explain , '' she said .
Pa explained .
Ma listened in grim silence until he had finished .
Then she said sternly : `` Do you reckon we 're going to keep this baby ? ''
`` I -- I -- dunno , '' said Pa. .
And he did n't .
`` Well , we 're NOT .
I brought up one boy and that 's enough .
I do n't calculate to be pestered with any more .
I never was much struck on children as children , anyhow .
You say that Mary Garland had a brother out in Mantioba ?
Well , we shall just write to him and tell him he 's got to look out for his nephew . ''
`` But how can you do that , Ma , when nobody knows his address ? ''
objected Pa , with a wistful look at that delicious , laughing baby .
`` I 'll find out his address if I have to advertise in the papers for him , '' retorted Ma .
`` As for you , Pa Sloane , you 're not fit to be out of a lunatic asylum .
The next auction you 'll be buying a wife , I s ` pose ? ''
Pa , quite crushed by Ma 's sarcasm , pulled his chair in to supper .
Ma picked up the baby and sat down at the head of the table .
Little Teddy laughed and pinched her face -- Ma 's face !
Ma looked very grim , but she fed him his supper as skilfully as if it had not been thirty years since she had done such a thing .
But then , the woman who once learns the mother knack never forgets it .
After tea Ma despatched Pa over to William Alexander 's to borrow a high chair .
When Pa returned in the twilight , the baby was fenced in on the sofa again , and Ma was stepping briskly about the garret .
She was bringing down the little cot bed her own boy had once occupied , and setting it up in their room for Teddy .
Then she undressed the baby and rocked him to sleep , crooning an old lullaby over him .
Pa Sloane sat quietly and listened , with very sweet memories of the long ago , when he and Ma had been young and proud , and the bewhiskered William Alexander had been a curly-headed little fellow like this one .
Ma was not driven to advertising for Mrs. Garland 's brother .
That personage saw the notice of his sister 's death in a home paper and wrote to the Carmody postmaster for full information .
The letter was referred to Ma and Ma answered it .
She wrote that they had taken in the baby , pending further arrangements , but had no intention of keeping it ; and she calmly demanded of its uncle what was to be done with it .
Then she sealed and addressed the letter with an unfaltering hand ; but , when it was done , she looked across the table at Pa Sloane , who was sitting in the armchair with the baby on his knee .
They were having a royal good time together .
Pa had always been dreadfully foolish about babies .
He looked ten years younger .
Ma 's keen eyes softened a little as she watched them .
A prompt answer came to her letter .
Teddy 's uncle wrote that he had six children of his own , but was nevertheless willing and glad to give his little nephew a home .
But he could not come after him .
Josiah Spencer , of White Sands , was going out to Manitoba in the spring .
If Mr. and Mrs. Sloane could only keep the baby till then he could be sent out with the Spencers .
Perhaps they would see a chance sooner .
`` There 'll be no chance sooner , '' said Pa Sloane in a tone of satisfaction .
`` No , worse luck ! ''
retorted Ma crisply .
The winter passed by .
Little Teddy grew and throve , and Pa Sloane worshipped him .
Ma was very good to him , too , and Teddy was just as fond of her as of Pa. .
Nevertheless , as the spring drew near , Pa became depressed .
Sometimes he sighed heavily , especially when he heard casual references to the Josiah Spencer emigration .
One warm afternoon in early May Josiah Spencer arrived .
He found Ma knitting placidly in the kitchen , while Pa nodded over his newspaper and the baby played with the cat on the floor .
`` Good afternoon , Mrs. Sloane , '' said Josiah with a flourish .
`` I just dropped in to see about this young man here .
We are going to leave next Wednesday ; so you 'd better send him down to our place Monday or Tuesday , so that he can get used to us , and -- '' `` Oh , Ma , '' began Pa , rising imploringly to his feet .
Ma transfixed him with her eye .
`` Sit down , Pa , '' she commanded .
Unhappy Pa sat .
Then Ma glared at the smiling Josiah , who instantly felt as guilty as if he had been caught stealing sheep red-handed .
`` We are much obliged to you , Mr. Spencer , '' said Ma icily , `` but this baby is OURS .
We bought him , and we paid for him .
A bargain is a bargain .
When I pay cash down for babies , I propose to get my money 's worth .
We are going to keep this baby in spite of any number of uncles in Manitoba .
Have I made this sufficiently clear to your understanding , Mr. Spencer ? ''
`` Certainly , certainly , '' stammered the unfortunate man , feeling guiltier than ever , `` but I thought you did n't want him -- I thought you 'd written to his uncle -- I thought -- '' `` I really would n't think quite so much if I were you , '' said Ma kindly .
`` It must be hard on you .
Wo n't you stay and have tea with us ? ''
But , no , Josiah would not stay .
He was thankful to make his escape with such rags of self-respect as remained to him .
Pa Sloane arose and came around to Ma 's chair .
He laid a trembling hand on her shoulder .
`` Ma , you 're a good woman , '' he said softly .
`` Go ` long , Pa , '' said Ma .
X .
The Courting of Prissy Strong I WAS N'T able to go to prayer meeting that evening because I had neuralgia in my face ; but Thomas went , and the minute he came home I knew by the twinkle in his eye that he had some news .
`` Who do you s ` pose Stephen Clark went home with from meeting to-night ? ''
he said , chuckling .
`` Jane Miranda Blair , '' I said promptly .
Stephen Clark 's wife had been dead for two years and he had n't taken much notice of anybody , so far as was known .
But Carmody had Jane Miranda all ready for him , and really I do n't know why she did n't suit him , except for the reason that a man never does what he is expected to do when it comes to marrying .
Thomas chuckled again .
`` Wrong .
He stepped up to Prissy Strong and walked off with her .
Cold soup warmed over . ''
`` Prissy Strong ! ''
I just held up my hands .
Then I laughed .
`` He need n't try for Prissy , '' I said .
`` Emmeline nipped that in the bud twenty years ago , and she 'll do it again . ''
`` Em ` line is an old crank , '' growled Thomas .
He detested Emmeline Strong , and always did .
`` She 's that , all right , '' I agreed , `` and that is just the reason she can turn poor Prissy any way she likes .
You mark my words , she 'll put her foot right down on this as soon as she finds it out . ''
Thomas said that I was probably right .
I lay awake for a long time after I went to bed that night , thinking of Prissy and Stephen .
As a general rule , I do n't concern my head about other people 's affairs , but Prissy was such a helpless creature I could n't get her off my mind .
Twenty years ago Stephen Clark had tried to go with Prissy Strong .
That was pretty soon after Prissy 's father had died .
She and Emmeline were living alone together .
Emmeline was thirty , ten years older than Prissy , and if ever there were two sisters totally different from each other in every way , those two were Emmeline and Prissy Strong .
Emmeline took after her father ; she was big and dark and homely , and she was the most domineering creature that ever stepped on shoe leather .
She simply ruled poor Prissy with a rod of iron .
Prissy herself was a pretty girl -- at least most people thought so .
I ca n't honestly say I ever admired her style much myself .
I like something with more vim and snap to it .
Prissy was slim and pink , with soft , appealing blue eyes , and pale gold hair all clinging in baby rings around her face .
She was just as meek and timid as she looked and there was n't a bit of harm in her .
I always liked Prissy , even if I did n't admire her looks as much as some people did .
Anyway , it was plain her style suited Stephen Clark .
He began to drive her , and there was n't a speck of doubt that Prissy liked him .
Then Emmeline just put a stopper on the affair .
It was pure cantankerousness in her .
Stephen was a good match and nothing could be said against him .
But Emmeline was just determined that Prissy should n't marry .
She could n't get married herself , and she was sore enough about it .
Of course , if Prissy had had a spark of spirit she would n't have given in .
But she had n't a mite ; I believe she would have cut off her nose if Emmeline had ordered her to do it .
She was just her mother over again .
If ever a girl belied her name , Prissy Strong did .
There was n't anything strong about her .
One night , when prayer meeting came out , Stephen stepped up to Prissy as usual and asked if he might see her home .
Thomas and I were just behind -- we were n't married ourselves then -- and we heard it all .
Prissy gave one scared , appealing look at Emmeline and then said , `` No , thank you , not to-night . ''
Stephen just turned on his heel and went .
He was a high-spirited fellow and I knew he would never overlook a public slight like that .
If he had had as much sense as he ought to have had he would have known that Emmeline was at the bottom of it ; but he did n't , and he began going to see Althea Gillis , and they were married the next year .
Althea was a rather nice girl , though giddy , and I think she and Stephen were happy enough together .
In real life things are often like that .
Nobody ever tried to go with Prissy again .
I suppose they were afraid of Emmeline .
Prissy 's beauty soon faded .
She was always kind of sweet looking , but her bloom went , and she got shyer and limper every year of her life .
She would n't have dared put on her second best dress without asking Emmeline 's permission .
She was real fond of cats and Emmeline would n't let her keep one .
Emmeline even cut the serial out of the religious weekly she took before she would give it to Prissy , because she did n't believe in reading novels .
It used to make me furious to see it all .
They were my next door neighbours after I married Thomas , and I was often in and out .
Sometimes I 'd feel real vexed at Prissy for giving in the way she did ; but , after all , she could n't help it -- she was born that way .
And now Stephen was going to try his luck again .
It certainly did seem funny .
Stephen walked home with Prissy from prayer meeting four nights before Emmeline found it out .
Emmeline had n't been going to prayer meeting all that summer because she was mad at Mr. Leonard .
She had expressed her disapproval to him because he had buried old Naomi Clark at the harbour `` just as if she was a Christian , '' and Mr. Leonard had said something to her she could n't get over for a while .
I do n't know what it was , but I know that when Mr. Leonard WAS roused to rebuke anyone the person so rebuked remembered it for a spell .
All at once I knew she must have discovered about Stephen and Prissy , for Prissy stopped going to prayer meeting .
I felt real worried about it , someway , and although Thomas said for goodness ' sake not to go poking my fingers into other people 's pies , I felt as if I ought to do something .
Stephen Clark was a good man and Prissy would have a beautiful home ; and those two little boys of Althea 's needed a mother if ever boys did .
Besides , I knew quite well that Prissy , in her secret soul , was hankering to be married .
So was Emmeline , too -- but nobody wanted to help HER to a husband .
The upshot of my meditations was that I asked Stephen down to dinner with us from church one day .
I had heard a rumour that he was going to see Lizzie Pye over at Avonlea , and I knew it was time to be stirring , if anything were to be done .
If it had been Jane Miranda I do n't know that I 'd have bothered ; but Lizzie Pye would n't have done for a stepmother for Althea 's boys at all .
She was too bad-tempered , and as mean as second skimmings besides .
Stephen came .
He seemed dull and moody , and not much inclined to talk .
After dinner I gave Thomas a hint .
I said , `` You go to bed and have your nap .
I want to talk to Stephen . ''
Thomas shrugged his shoulders and went .
He probably thought I was brewing up lots of trouble for myself , but he did n't say anything .
As soon as he was out of the way I casually remarked to Stephen that I understood that he was going to take one of my neighbours away and that I could n't be sorry , though she was an excellent neighbour and I would miss her a great deal .
`` You wo n't have to miss her much , I reckon , '' said Stephen grimly .
`` I 've been told I 'm not wanted there . ''
I was surprised to hear Stephen come out so plump and plain about it , for I had n't expected to get at the root of the matter so easily .
Stephen was n't the confidential kind .
But it really seemed to be a relief to him to talk about it ; I never saw a man feeling so sore about anything .
He told me the whole story .
Prissy had written him a letter -- he fished it out of his pocket and gave it to me to read .
It was in Prissy 's prim , pretty little writing , sure enough , and it just said that his attentions were `` unwelcome , '' and would he be `` kind enough to refrain from offering them . ''
Not much wonder the poor man went to see Lizzie Pye !
`` Stephen , I 'm surprised at you for thinking that Prissy Strong wrote that letter , '' I said .
`` It 's in her handwriting , '' he said stubbornly .
`` Of course it is .
` The hand is the hand of Esau , but the voice is the voice of Jacob , ' '' I said , though I was n't sure whether the quotation was exactly appropriate .
`` Emmeline composed that letter and made Prissy copy it out .
I know that as well as if I 'd seen her do it , and you ought to have known it , too . ''
`` If I thought that I 'd show Emmeline I could get Prissy in spite of her , '' said Stephen savagely .
`` But if Prissy does n't want me I 'm not going to force my attentions on her . ''
Well , we talked it over a bit , and in the end I agreed to sound Prissy , and find out what she really thought about it .
I did n't think it would be hard to do ; and it was n't .
I went over the very next day because I saw Emmeline driving off to the store .
I found Prissy alone , sewing carpet rags .
Emmeline kept her constantly at that -- because Prissy hated it I suppose .
Prissy was crying when I went in , and in a few minutes I had the whole story .
Prissy wanted to get married -- and she wanted to get married to Stephen -- and Emmeline would n't let her .
`` Prissy Strong , '' I said in exasperation , `` you have n't the spirit of a mouse !
Why on earth did you write him such a letter ? ''
`` Why , Emmeline made me , '' said Prissy , as if there could n't be any appeal from that ; and I knew there could n't -- for Prissy .
I also knew that if Stephen wanted to see Prissy again Emmeline must know nothing of it , and I told him so when he came down the next evening -- to borrow a hoe , he said .
It was a long way to come for a hoe .
`` Then what am I to do ? ''
he said .
`` It would n't be any use to write , for it would likely fall into Emmeline 's hands .
She wo n't let Prissy go anywhere alone after this , and how am I to know when the old cat is away ? ''
`` Please do n't insult cats , '' I said .
`` I 'll tell you what we 'll do .
You can see the ventilator on our barn from your place , ca n't you ?
You 'd be able to make out a flag or something tied to it , would n't you , through that spy-glass of yours ? ''
Stephen thought he could .
`` Well , you take a squint at it every now and then , '' I said .
`` Just as soon as Emmeline leaves Prissy alone I 'll hoist the signal . ''
The chance did n't come for a whole fortnight .
Then , one evening , I saw Emmeline striding over the field below our house .
As soon as she was out of sight I ran through the birch grove to Prissy .
`` Yes , Em ` line 's gone to sit up with Jane Lawson to-night , '' said Prissy , all fluttered and trembling .
`` Then you put on your muslin dress and fix your hair , '' I said .
`` I 'm going home to get Thomas to tie something to that ventilator . ''
But do you think Thomas would do it ?
Not he .
He said he owed something to his position as elder in the church .
In the end I had to do it myself , though I do n't like climbing ladders .
I tied Thomas ' long red woollen scarf to the ventilator , and prayed that Stephen would see it .
He did , for in less than an hour he drove down our lane and put his horse in our barn .
He was all spruced up , and as nervous and excited as a schoolboy .
He went right over to Prissy , and I began to tuft my new comfort with a clear conscience .
I shall never know why it suddenly came into my head to go up to the garret and make sure that the moths had n't got into my box of blankets ; but I always believed that it was a special interposition of Providence .
I went up and happened to look out of the east window ; and there I saw Emmeline Strong coming home across our pond field .
I just flew down those garret stairs and out through the birches .
I burst into the Strong kitchen , where Stephen and Prissy were sitting as cozy as you please .
`` Stephen , come quick !
Emmeline 's nearly here , '' I cried .
Prissy looked out of the window and wrung her hands .
`` Oh , she 's in the lane now , '' she gasped .
`` He ca n't get out of the house without her seeing him .
Oh , Rosanna , what shall we do ? ''
I really do n't know what would have become of those two people if I had n't been in existence to find ideas for them .
`` Take Stephen up to the garret and hide him there , Prissy , '' I said firmly , `` and take him quick . ''
Prissy took him quick , but she had barely time to get back to the kitchen before Emmeline marched in -- mad as a wet hen because somebody had been ahead of her offering to sit up with Jane Lawson , and so she lost the chance of poking and prying into things while Jane was asleep .
The minute she clapped eyes on Prissy she suspected something .
It was n't any wonder , for there was Prissy , all dressed up , with flushed cheeks and shining eyes .
She was all in a quiver of excitement , and looked ten years younger .
`` Priscilla Strong , you 've been expecting Stephen Clark here this evening ! ''
burst out Emmeline .
`` You wicked , deceitful , underhanded , ungrateful creature ! ''
And she went on storming at Prissy , who began to cry , and looked so weak and babyish that I was frightened she would betray the whole thing .
`` This is between you and Prissy , Emmeline , '' I struck in , `` and I 'm not going to interfere .
But I want to get you to come over and show me how to tuft my comfort that new pattern you learned in Avonlea , and as it had better be done before dark I wish you 'd come right away . ''
`` I s ` pose I 'll go , '' said Emmeline ungraciously , `` but Priscilla shall come , too , for I see that she is n't to be trusted out of my sight after this . ''
I hoped Stephen would see us from the garret window and make good his escape .
But I did n't dare trust to chance , so when I got Emmeline safely to work on my comfort I excused myself and slipped out .
Luckily my kitchen was on the off side of the house , but I was a nervous woman as I rushed across to the Strong place and dashed up Emmeline 's garret stairs to Stephen .
It was fortunate I had come , for he did n't know we had gone .
Prissy had hidden him behind the loom and he did n't dare move for fear Emmeline would hear him on that creaky floor .
He was a sight with cobwebs .
I got him down and smuggled him into our barn , and he stayed there until it was dark and the Strong girls had gone home .
Emmeline began to rage at Prissy the moment they were outside my door .
Then Stephen came in and we talked things over .
He and Prissy had made good use of their time , short as it had been .
Prissy had promised to marry him , and all that remained was to get the ceremony performed .
`` And that will be no easy matter , '' I warned him .
`` Now that Emmeline 's suspicions are aroused she 'll never let Prissy out of her sight until you 're married to another woman , if it 's years .
I know Emmeline Strong .
And I know Prissy .
If it was any other girl in the world she 'd run away , or manage it somehow , but Prissy never will .
She 's too much in the habit of obeying Emmeline .
You 'll have an obedient wife , Stephen -- if you ever get her . ''
Stephen looked as if he thought that would n't be any drawback .
Gossip said that Althea had been pretty bossy .
I do n't know .
Maybe it was so .
`` Ca n't you suggest something , Rosanna ? ''
he implored .
`` You 've helped us so far , and I 'll never forget it . ''
`` The only thing I can think of is for you to have the license ready , and speak to Mr. Leonard , and keep an eye on our ventilator , '' I said .
`` I 'll watch here and signal whenever there 's an opening . ''
Well , I watched and Stephen watched , and Mr. Leonard was in the plot , too .
Prissy was always a favourite of his , and he would have been more than human , saint as he is , if he 'd had any love for Emmeline , after the way she was always trying to brew up strife in the church .
But Emmeline was a match for us all .
She never let Prissy out of her sight .
Everywhere she went she toted Prissy , too .
When a month had gone by , I was almost in despair .
Mr. Leonard had to leave for the Assembly in another week and Stephen 's neighbours were beginning to talk about him .
They said that a man who spent all his time hanging around the yard with a spyglass , and trusting everything to a hired boy , could n't be altogether right in his mind .
I could hardly believe my eyes when I saw Emmeline driving away one day alone .
As soon as she was out of sight I whisked over , and Anne Shirley and Diana Barry went with me .
They were visiting me that afternoon .
Diana 's mother was my second cousin , and , as we visited back and forth frequently , I 'd often seen Diana .
But I 'd never seen her chum , Anne Shirley , although I 'd heard enough about her to drive anyone frantic with curiosity .
So when she came home from Redmond College that summer I asked Diana to take pity on me and bring her over some afternoon .
I was n't disappointed in her .
I considered her a beauty , though some people could n't see it .
She had the most magnificent red hair and the biggest , shiningest eyes I ever saw in a girl 's head .
As for her laugh , it made me feel young again to hear it .
She and Diana both laughed enough that afternoon , for I told them , under solemn promise of secrecy , all about poor Prissy 's love affair .
So nothing would do them but they must go over with me .
The appearance of the house amazed me .
All the shutters were closed and the door locked .
I knocked and knocked , but there was no answer .
Then I walked around the house to the only window that had n't shutters -- a tiny one upstairs .
I knew it was the window in the closet off the room where the girls slept .
I stopped under it and called Prissy .
Before long Prissy came and opened it .
She was so pale and woe-begone looking that I pitied her with all my heart .
`` Prissy , where has Emmeline gone ? ''
I asked .
`` Down to Avonlea to see the Roger Pyes .
They 're sick with measles , and Emmeline could n't take me because I 've never had measles . ''
Poor Prissy !
She had never had anything a body ought to have .
`` Then you just come and unfasten a shutter , and come right over to my house , '' I said exultantly .
`` We 'll have Stephen and the minister here in no time . ''
`` I ca n't -- Em ` line has locked me in here , '' said Prissy woefully .
I was posed .
No living mortal bigger than a baby could have got in or out of that closet window .
`` Well , '' I said finally , `` I 'll put the signal up for Stephen anyhow , and we 'll see what can be done when he gets here . ''
I did n't know how I was ever to get the signal up on that ventilator , for it was one of the days I take dizzy spells ; and if I took one up on the ladder there 'd probably be a funeral instead of a wedding .
But Anne Shirley said she 'd put it up for me , and she did .
I had never seen that girl before , and I 've never seen her since , but it 's my opinion that there was n't much she could n't do if she made up her mind to do it .
Stephen was n't long in getting there and he brought the minister with him .
Then we all , including Thomas -- who was beginning to get interested in the affair in spite of himself -- went over and held council of war beneath the closet window .
Thomas suggested breaking in doors and carrying Prissy off boldly , but I could see that Mr. Leonard looked very dubious over that , and even Stephen said he thought it could only be done as a last resort .
I agreed with him .
I knew Emmeline Strong would bring an action against him for housebreaking as likely as not .
She 'd be so furious she 'd stick at nothing if we gave her any excuse .
Then Anne Shirley , who could n't have been more excited if she was getting married herself , came to the rescue again .
`` Could n't you put a ladder up to the closet window , '' she said , `` And Mr. Clark can go up it and they can be married there .
Ca n't they , Mr. Leonard ? ''
Mr. Leonard agreed that they could .
He was always the most saintly looking man , but I know I saw a twinkle in his eye .
`` Thomas , go over and bring our little ladder over here , '' I said .
Thomas forgot he was an elder , and he brought the ladder as quick as it was possible for a fat man to do it .
After all it was too short to reach the window , but there was no time to go for another .
Stephen went up to the top of it , and he reached up and Prissy reached down , and they could just barely clasp hands so .
I shall never forget the look of Prissy .
The window was so small she could only get her head and one arm out of it .
Besides , she was almost frightened to death .
Mr. Leonard stood at the foot of the ladder and married them .
As a rule , he makes a very long and solemn thing of the marriage ceremony , but this time he cut out everything that was n't absolutely necessary ; and it was well that he did , for just as he pronounced them man and wife , Emmeline drove into the lane .
She knew perfectly well what had happened when she saw the minister with his blue book in his hand .
Never a word said she .
She marched to the front door , unlocked it , and strode upstairs .
I 've always been convinced it was a mercy that closet window was so small , or I believe that she would have thrown Prissy out of it .
As it was , she walked her downstairs by the arm and actually flung her at Stephen .
`` There , take your wife , '' she said , `` and I 'll pack up every stitch she owns and send it after her ; and I never want to see her or you again as long as I live . ''
Then she turned to me and Thomas .
`` As for you that have aided and abetted that weakminded fool in this , take yourselves out of my yard and never darken my door again . ''
`` Goodness , who wants to , you old spitfire ? ''
said Thomas .
It was n't just the thing for him to say , perhaps , but we are all human , even elders .
The girls did n't escape .
Emmeline looked daggers at them .
`` This will be something for you to carry back to Avonlea , '' she said .
`` You gossips down there will have enough to talk about for a spell .
That 's all you ever go out of Avonlea for -- just to fetch and carry tales . ''
Finally she finished up with the minister .
`` I 'm going to the Baptist church in Spencervale after this , '' she said .
Her tone and look said a hundred other things .
She whirled into the house and slammed the door .
Mr. Leonard looked around on us with a pitying smile as Stephen put poor , half-fainting Prissy into the buggy .
`` I am very sorry , '' he said in that gently , saintly way of his , `` for the Baptists . ''
XI .
The Miracle at Carmody Salome looked out of the kitchen window , and a pucker of distress appeared on her smooth forehead .
`` Dear , dear , what has Lionel Hezekiah been doing now ? ''
she murmured anxiously .
Involuntarily she reached out for her crutch ; but it was a little beyond her reach , having fallen on the floor , and without it Salome could not move a step .
`` Well , anyway , Judith is bringing him in as fast as she can , '' she reflected .
`` He must have been up to something terrible this time ; for she looks very cross , and she never walks like that unless she is angry clear through .
Dear me , I am sometimes tempted to think that Judith and I made a mistake in adopting the child .
I suppose two old maids do n't know much about bringing up a boy properly .
But he is NOT a bad child , and it really seems to me that there must be some way of making him behave better if we only knew what it was . ''
Salome 's monologue was cut short by the entrance of her sister Judith , holding Lionel Hezekiah by his chubby wrist with a determined grip .
Judith Marsh was ten years older than Salome , and the two women were as different in appearance as night and day .
Salome , in spite of her thirty-five years , looked almost girlish .
She was small and pink and flower-like , with little rings of pale golden hair clustering all over her head in a most unspinster-like fashion , and her eyes were big and blue , and mild as a dove 's .
Her face was perhaps a weak one , but it was very sweet and appealing .
Judith Marsh was tall and dark , with a plain , tragic face and iron-gray hair .
Her eyes were black and sombre , and every feature bespoke unyielding will and determination .
Just now she looked , as Salome had said , `` angry clear through , '' and the baleful glances she cast on the small mortal she held would have withered a more hardened criminal than six happy-go-lucky years had made of Lionel Hezekiah .
Lionel Hezekiah , whatever his shortcomings , did not look bad .
Indeed , he was as engaging an urchin as ever beamed out on a jolly good world through a pair of big , velvet-brown eyes .
He was chubby and firm-limbed , with a mop of beautiful golden curls , which were the despair of his heart and the pride and joy of Salome 's ; and his round face was usually a lurking-place for dimples and smiles and sunshine .
But just now Lionel Hezekiah was under a blight ; he had been caught red-handed in guilt , and was feeling much ashamed of himself .
He hung his head and squirmed his toes under the mournful reproach in Salome 's eyes .
When Salome looked at him like that , Lionel Hezekiah always felt that he was paying more for his fun than it was worth .
`` What do you suppose I caught him doing this time ? ''
demanded Judith .
`` I -- I do n't know , '' faltered Salome .
`` Firing -- at -- a -- mark -- on -- the -- henhouse -- door -- with -- new-laid -- eggs , '' said Judith with measured distinctness .
`` He has broken every egg that was laid to-day except three .
And as for the state of that henhouse door -- '' Judith paused , with an indignant gesture meant to convey that the state of the henhouse door must be left to Salome 's imagination , since the English language was not capable of depicting it .
`` O Lionel Hezekiah , why will you do such things ? ''
said Salome miserably .
`` I -- did n't know it was wrong , '' said Lionel Hezekiah , bursting into prompt tears .
`` I -- I thought it would be bully fun .
Seems 's if everything what 's fun 's wrong . ''
Salome 's heart was not proof against tears , as Lionel Hezekiah very well knew .
She put her arm about the sobbing culprit , and drew him to her side .
`` He did n't know it was wrong , '' she said defiantly to Judith .
`` He 's got to be taught , then , '' was Judith 's retort .
`` No , you need n't try to beg him off , Salome .
He shall go right to bed without supper , and stay there till to-morrow morning . ''
`` Oh !
not without his supper , '' entreated Salome .
`` You -- you wo n't improve the child 's morals by injuring his stomach , Judith . ''
`` Without his supper , I say , '' repeated Judith inexorably .
`` Lionel Hezekiah , go up-stairs to the south room , and go to bed at once . ''
Lionel Hezekiah went up-stairs , and went to bed at once .
He was never sulky or disobedient .
Salome listened to him as he stumped patiently up-stairs with a sob at every step , and her own eyes filled with tears .
`` Now do n't for pity 's sake go crying , Salome , '' said Judith irritably .
`` I think I 've let him off very easily .
He is enough to try the patience of a saint , and I never was that , '' she added with entire truth .
`` But he is n't bad , '' pleaded Salome .
`` You know he never does anything the second time after he has been told it was wrong , never . ''
`` What good does that do when he is certain to do something new and twice as bad ?
I never saw anything like him for originating ideas of mischief .
Just look at what he has done in the past fortnight -- in one fortnight , Salome .
He brought in a live snake , and nearly frightened you into fits ; he drank up a bottle of liniment , and almost poisoned himself ; he took three toads to bed with him ; he climbed into the henhouse loft , and fell through on a hen and killed her ; he painted his face all over with your water-colours ; and now comes THIS exploit .
And eggs at twenty-eight cents a dozen !
I tell you , Salome , Lionel Hezekiah is an expensive luxury . ''
`` But we could n't do without him , '' protested Salome . ''
I could .
But as you ca n't , or think you ca n't , we 'll have to keep him , I suppose .
But the only way to secure any peace of mind for ourselves , as far as I can see , is to tether him in the yard , and hire somebody to watch him . ''
`` There must be some way of managing him , '' said Salome desperately .
She thought Judith was in earnest about the tethering .
Judith was generally so terribly in earnest in all she said .
`` Perhaps it is because he has no other employment that he invents so many unheard-of things .
If he had anything to occupy himself with -- perhaps if we sent him to school -- '' `` He 's too young to go to school .
Father always said that no child should go to school until it was seven , and I do n't mean Lionel Hezekiah shall .
Well , I 'm going to take a pail of hot water and a brush , and see what I can do to that henhouse door .
I 've got my afternoon 's work cut out for me . ''
Judith stood Salome 's crutch up beside her , and departed to purify the henhouse door .
As soon as she was safely out of the way , Salome took her crutch , and limped slowly and painfully to the foot of the stairs .
She could not go up and comfort Lionel Hezekiah as she yearned to do , which was the reason Judith had sent him up-stairs .
Salome had not been up-stairs for fifteen years .
Neither did she dare to call him out on the landing , lest Judith return .
Besides , of course he must be punished ; he had been very naughty .
`` But I wish I could smuggle a bit of supper up to him , '' she mused , sitting down on the lowest step and listening .
`` I do n't hear a sound .
I suppose he has cried himself to sleep , poor , dear baby .
He certainly is dreadfully mischievous ; but it seems to me that it shows an investigating turn of mind , and if it could only be directed into the proper channels -- I wish Judith would let me have a talk with Mr. Leonard about Lionel Hezekiah .
I wish Judith did n't hate ministers so .
I do n't mind so much her not letting me go to church , because I 'm so lame that it would be painful anyhow ; but I 'd like to talk with Mr. Leonard now and then about some things .
I can never believe that Judith and father were right ; I am sure they were not .
There is a God , and I 'm afraid it 's terribly wicked not to go to church .
But there , nothing short of a miracle would convince Judith ; so there is no use in thinking about it .
Yes , Lionel Hezekiah must have gone to sleep . ''
Salome pictured him so , with his long , curling lashes brushing his rosy , tear-stained cheek and his chubby fists clasped tightly over his breast as was his habit ; her heart grew warm and thrilling with the maternity the picture provoked .
A year previously Lionel Hezekiah 's parents , Abner and Martha Smith , had died , leaving a houseful of children and very little else .
The children were adopted into various Carmody families , and Salome Marsh had amazed Judith by asking to be allowed to take the five-year-old `` baby . ''
At first Judith had laughed at the idea ; but , when she found that Salome was in earnest , she yielded .
Judith always gave Salome her own way except on one point .
`` If you want the child , I suppose you must have him , '' she said finally .
`` I wish he had a civilized name , though .
Hezekiah is bad , and Lionel is worse ; but the two in combination , and tacked on to Smith at that , is something that only Martha Smith could have invented .
Her judgment was the same clear through , from selecting husbands to names . ''
So Lionel Hezekiah came into Judith 's home and Salome 's heart .
The latter was permitted to love him all she pleased , but Judith overlooked his training with a critical eye .
Possibly it was just as well , for Salome might otherwise have ruined him with indulgence .
Salome , who always adopted Judith 's opinions , no matter how ill they fitted her , deferred to the former 's decrees meekly , and suffered far more than Lionel Hezekiah when he was punished .
She sat on the stairs until she fell asleep herself , her head pillowed on her arm .
Judith found her there when she came in , severe and triumphant , from her bout with the henhouse door .
Her face softened into marvelous tenderness as she looked at Salome .
`` She 's nothing but a child herself in spite of her age , '' she thought pityingly .
`` A child that 's had her whole life thwarted and spoiled through no fault of her own .
And yet folks say there is a God who is kind and good !
If there is a God , he is a cruel , jealous tyrant , and I hate Him ! ''
Judith 's eyes were bitter and vindictive .
She thought she had many grievances against the great Power that rules the universe , but the most intense was Salome 's helplessness -- Salome , who fifteen years before had been the brightest , happiest of maidens , light of heart and foot , bubbling over with harmless , sparkling mirth and life .
If Salome could only walk like other women , Judith told herself that she would not hate the great tyrannical Power .
Lionel Hezekiah was subdued and angelic for four days after that affair of the henhouse door .
Then he broke out in a new place .
One afternoon he came in sobbing , with his golden curls full of burrs .
Judith was not in , but Salome dropped her crochet-work and gazed at him in dismay .
`` Oh , Lionel Hezekiah , what have you gone and done now ? ''
`` I -- I just stuck the burrs in 'cause I was playing I was a heathen chief , '' sobbed Lionel Hezekiah .
`` It was great fun while it lasted ; but , when I tried to take them out , it hurt awful . ''
Neither Salome nor Lionel Hezekiah ever forgot the harrowing hour that followed .
With the aid of comb and scissors , Salome eventually got the burrs out of Lionel Hezekiah 's crop of curls .
It would be impossible to decide which of them suffered more in the process .
Salome cried as hard as Lionel Hezekiah did , and every snip of the scissors or tug at the silken floss cut into her heart .
She was almost exhausted when the performance was over ; but she took the tired Lionel Hezekiah on her knee , and laid her wet cheek against his shining head .
`` Oh , Lionel Hezekiah , what does make you get into mischief so constantly ? ''
she sighed .
Lionel Hezekiah frowned reflectively .
`` I do n't know , '' he finally announced , `` unless it 's because you do n't send me to Sunday school . ''
Salome started as if an electric shock had passed through her frail body .
`` Why , Lionel Hezekiah , '' she stammered , `` what put such and idea into your head ? ''
`` Well , all the other boys go , '' said Lionel Hezekiah defiantly ; `` and they 're all better 'n me ; so I guess that must be the reason .
Teddy Markham says that all little boys should go to Sunday school , and that if they do n't they 're sure to go to the bad place .
I do n't see how you can ` spect me to behave well when you wo n't send me to Sunday school .
`` Would you like to go ? ''
asked Salome , almost in a whisper .
`` I 'd like it bully , '' said Lionel Hezekiah frankly and succinctly .
`` Oh , do n't use such dreadful words , '' sighed Salome helplessly .
`` I 'll see what can be done .
Perhaps you can go .
I 'll ask your Aunt Judith . ''
`` Oh , Aunt Judith wo n't let me go , '' said Lionel Hezekiah despondingly .
`` Aunt Judith does n't believe there is any God or any bad place .
Teddy Markham says she does n't .
He says she 's an awful wicked woman 'cause she never goes to church .
So you must be wicked too , Aunt Salome , 'cause you never go .
Why do n't you ? ''
`` Your -- your Aunt Judith wo n't let me go , '' faltered Salome , more perplexed than she had ever been before in her life .
`` Well , it does n't seem to me that you have much fun on Sundays , '' remarked Lionel Hezekiah ponderingly .
`` I 'd have more if I was you .
But I s ` pose you ca n't 'cause you 're ladies .
I 'm glad I 'm a man .
Look at Abel Blair , what splendid times he has on Sundays .
He never goes to church , but he goes fishing , and has cock-fights , and gets drunk .
When I grow up , I 'm going to do that on Sundays too , since I wo n't be going to church .
I do n't want to go to church , but I 'd like to go to Sunday school . ''
Salome listened in agony .
Every word of Lionel Hezekiah 's stung her conscience unbearably .
So this was the result of her weak yielding to Judith ; this innocent child looked upon her as a wicked woman , and , worse still , regarded old , depraved Abel Blair as a model to be imitated .
Oh !
was it too late to undo the evil ?
When Judith returned , Salome blurted out the whole story .
`` Lionel Hezekiah must go to Sunday school , '' she concluded appealingly .
Judith 's face hardened until it was as if cut in stone .
`` No , he shall not , '' she said stubbornly .
`` No one living in my household shall ever go to church or Sunday school .
I gave in to you when you wanted to teach him to say his prayers , though I knew it was only foolish superstition , but I sha 'n' t yield another inch .
You know exactly how I feel on this subject , Salome ; I believe just as father did .
You know he hated churches and churchgoing .
And was there ever a better , kinder , more lovable man ? ''
`` Mother believed in God ; mother always went to church , '' pleaded Salome .
`` Mother was weak and superstitious , just as you are , '' retorted Judith inflexibly .
`` I tell you , Salome , I do n't believe there is a God .
But , if there is , He is cruel and unjust , and I hate Him . ''
`` Judith ! ''
gasped Salome , aghast at the impiety .
She half expected to see her sister struck dead at her feet .
`` Do n't ` Judith ' me ! ''
said Judith passionately , in the strange anger that any discussion of the subject always roused in her .
`` I mean every word I say .
Before you got lame I did n't feel much about it one way or another ; I 'd just as soon have gone with mother as with father .
But , when you were struck down like that , I knew father was right . ''
For a moment Salome quailed .
She felt that she could not , dare not , stand out against Judith .
For her own sake she could not have done so , but the thought of Lionel Hezekiah nerved her to desperation .
She struck her thin , bleached little hands wildly together .
`` Judith , I 'm going to church to-morrow , '' she cried .
`` I tell you I am , I wo n't set Lionel Hezekiah a bad example one day longer .
I 'll not take him ; I wo n't go against you in that , for it is your bounty feeds and clothes him ; but I 'm going myself . ''
`` If you do , Salome Marsh , I 'll never forgive you , '' said Judith , her harsh face dark with anger ; and then , not trusting herself to discuss the subject any longer , she went out .
Salome dissolved into her ready tears , and cried most of the night .
But her resolution did not fail .
Go to church she would , for that dear baby 's sake .
Judith would not speak to her at breakfast , and this almost broke Salome 's heart ; but she dared not yield .
After breakfast , she limped painfully into her room , and still more painfully dressed herself .
When she was ready , she took a little old worn Bible out of her box .
It had been her mother 's , and Salome read a chapter in it every night , although she never dared to let Judith see her doing it .
When she limped out into the kitchen , Judith looked up with a hard face .
A flame of sullen anger glowed in her dark eyes , and she went into the sitting-room and shut the door , as if by that act she were shutting her sister for evermore out of her heart and life .
Salome , strung up to the last pitch of nervous tension , felt intuitively the significance of that closed door .
For a moment she wavered -- oh , she could not go against Judith !
She was all but turning back to her room when Lionel Hezekiah came running in , and paused to look at her admiringly .
`` You look just bully , Aunt Salome , '' he said .
`` Where are you going ? ''
`` Do n't use that word , Lionel Hezekiah , '' pleaded Salome .
`` I 'm going to church . ''
`` Take me with you , '' said Lionel Hezekiah promptly .
Salome shook her head .
`` I ca n't , dear .
Your Aunt Judith would n't like it .
Perhaps she will let you go after a while .
Now do be a good boy while I am away , wo n't you ?
Do n't do any naughty things . ''
`` I wo n't do them if I know they 're naughty , '' conceded Lionel Hezekiah .
`` But that 's just the trouble ; I do n't know what 's naughty and what ai n't .
Prob ` ly if I went to Sunday school I 'd find out . ''
Salome limped out of the yard and down the lane bordered by its asters and goldenrod .
Fortunately the church was just outside the lane , across the main road ; but Salome found it hard to cover even that short distance .
She felt almost exhausted when she reached the church and toiled painfully up the aisle to her mother 's old pew .
She laid her crutch on the seat , and sank into the corner by the window with a sigh of relief .
She had elected to come early so that she might get there before the rest of the people .
The church was as yet empty , save for a class of Sunday school children and their teacher in a remote corner , who paused midway in their lesson to stare with amazement at the astonishing sigh of Salome Marsh limping into church .
The big building , shadowy from the great elms around it , was very still .
A faint murmur came from the closed room behind the pulpit where the rest of the Sunday school was assembled .
In front of the pulpit was a stand bearing tall white geraniums in luxuriant blossom .
The light fell through the stained-glass window in a soft tangle of hues upon the floor .
Salome felt a sense of peace and happiness fill her heart .
Even Judith 's anger lost its importance .
She leaned her head against the window-sill , and gave herself up to the flood of tender old recollections that swept over her .
Memory went back to the years of her childhood when she had sat in this pew every Sunday with her mother .
Judith had come then , too , always seeming grown up to Salome by reason of her ten years ' seniority .
Her tall , dark , reserved father never came .
Salome knew that the Carmody people called him an infidel , and looked upon him as a very wicked man .
But he had not been wicked ; he had been good and kind in his own odd way .
The gently little mother had died when Salome was ten years old , but so loving and tender was Judith 's care that the child did not miss anything out of her life .
Judith Marsh loved her little sister with an intensity that was maternal .
She herself was a plain , repellent girl , liked by few , sought after by no man ; but she was determined that Salome should have everything that she had missed -- admiration , friendship , love .
She would have a vicarious youth in Salome 's .
All went according to Judith 's planning until Salome was eighteen , and then trouble after trouble came .
Their father , whom Judith had understood and passionately loved , died ; Salome 's young lover was killed in a railroad accident ; and finally Salome herself developed symptoms of the hip-disease which , springing from a trifling injury , eventually left her a cripple .
Everything possible was done for her .
Judith , falling heir to a snug little fortune by the death of the old aunt for whom she was named , spared nothing to obtain the best medical skill , and in vain .
One and all , the great doctors failed .
Judith had borne her father 's death bravely enough in spite of her agony of grief ; she had watched her sister pining and fading with the pain of her broken heart without growing bitter ; but when she knew at last that Salome would never walk again save as she hobbled painfully about on her crutch , the smouldering revolt in her soul broke its bounds , and overflowed her nature in a passionate rebellion against the Being who had sent , or had failed to prevent , these calamities .
She did not rave or denounce wildly ; that was not Judith 's way ; but she never went to church again , and it soon became an accepted fact in Carmody that Judith Marsh was as rank an infidel as her father had been before her ; nay , worse , since she would not even allow Salome to go to church , and shut the door in the minister 's face when he went to see her .
`` I should have stood out against her for conscience ' sake , '' reflected Salome in her pew self-reproachfully .
`` But , O dear , I 'm afraid she 'll never forgive me , and how can I live if she does n't ?
But I must endure it for Lionel Hezekiah 's sake ; my weakness has perhaps done him great harm already .
They say that what a child learns in the first seven years never leaves him ; so Lionel Hezekiah has only another year to get set right about these things .
Oh , if I 've left it till too late ! ''
When the people began to come in , Salome felt painfully the curious glances directed at her .
Look where she would , she met them , unless she looked out of the window ; so out of the window she did look unswervingly , her delicate little face burning crimson with self-consciousness .
She could see her home and its back yard plainly , with Lionel Hezekiah making mud-pies joyfully in the corner .
Presently she saw Judith come out of the house and stride away to the pine wood behind it .
Judith always betook herself to the pines in time of mental stress and strain .
Salome could see the sunlight shining on Lionel Hezekiah 's bare head as he mixed his pies .
In the pleasure of watching him she forgot where she was and the curious eyes turned on her .
Suddenly Lionel Hezekiah ceased concocting pies , and betook himself to the corner of the summer kitchen , where he proceeded to climb up to the top of the storm-fence and from there to mount the sloping kitchen roof .
Salome clasped her hands in agony .
What if the child should fall ?
Oh !
why had Judith gone away and left him alone ?
What if -- what if -- and then , while her brain with lightning-like rapidity pictured forth a dozen possible catastrophes , something really did happen .
Lionel Hezekiah slipped , sprawled wildly , slid down , and fell off the roof , in a bewildering whirl of arms and legs , plump into the big rain-water hogshead under the spout , which was generally full to the brim with rain-water , a hogshead big and deep enough to swallow up half a dozen small boys who went climbing kitchen roofs on a Sunday .
Then something took place that is talked of in Carmody to this day , and even fiercely wrangled over , so many and conflicting are the opinions on the subject .
Salome Marsh , who had not walked a step without assistance for fifteen years , suddenly sprang to her feet with a shriek , ran down the aisle , and out of the door !
Every man , woman , and child in the Carmody church followed her , even to the minister , who had just announced his text .
When they got out , Salome was already half-way up her lane , running wildly .
In her heart was room for but one agonized thought .
Would Lionel Hezekiah be drowned before she reached him ?
She opened the gate of the yard , and panted across it just as a tall , grim-faced woman came around the corner of the house and stood rooted to the ground in astonishment at the sight that met her eyes .
But Salome saw nobody .
She flung herself against the hogshead and looked in , sick with terror at what she might see .
What she did see was Lionel Hezekiah sitting on the bottom of the hogshead in water that came only to his waist .
He was looking rather dazed and bewildered , but was apparently quite uninjured .
The yard was full of people , but nobody had as yet said a word ; awe and wonder held everybody in spellbound silence .
Judith was the first to speak .
She pushed through the crowd to Salome .
Her face was blanched to a deadly whiteness ; and her eyes , as Mrs. William Blair afterwards declared , were enough to give a body the creeps .
`` Salome , '' she said in a high , shrill , unnatural voice , `` where is your crutch ? ''
Salome came to herself at the question .
For the first time , she realized that she had walked , nay , run , all that distance from the church alone and unaided .
She turned pale , swayed , and would have fallen if Judith had not caught her .
Old Dr. Blair came forward briskly .
`` Carry her in , '' he said , `` and do n't all of you come crowding in , either .
She wants quiet and rest for a spell . ''
Most of the people obediently returned to the church , their sudden loosened tongues clattering in voluble excitement .
A few women assisted Judith to carry Salome in and lay her on the kitchen lounge , followed by the doctor and the dripping Lionel Hezekiah , whom the minister had lifted out of the hogshead and to whom nobody now paid the slightest attention .
Salome faltered out her story , and her hearers listened with varying emotions .
`` It 's a miracle , '' said Sam Lawson in an awed voice .
Dr. Blair shrugged his shoulders .
`` There is no miracle about it , '' he said bluntly .
`` It 's all perfectly natural .
The disease in the hip has evidently been quite well for a long time ; Nature does sometimes work cures like that when she is let alone .
The trouble was that the muscles were paralyzed by long disuse .
That paralysis was overcome by the force of a strong and instinctive effort .
Salome , get up and walk across the kitchen . ''
Salome obeyed .
She walked across the kitchen and back , slowly , stiffly , falteringly , now that the stimulus of frantic fear was spent ; but still she walked .
The doctor nodded his satisfaction .
`` Keep that up every day .
Walk as much as you can without tiring yourself , and you 'll soon be as spry as ever .
No more need of crutches for you , but there 's no miracle in the case . ''
Judith Marsh turned to him .
She had not spoken a word since her question concerning Salome 's crutch .
Now she said passionately : `` It WAS a miracle .
God has worked it to prove His existence for me , and I accept the proof . ''
The old doctor shrugged his shoulders again .
Being a wise man , he knew when to hold his tongue .
`` Well , put Salome to bed , and let her sleep the rest of the day .
She 's worn out .
And for pity 's sake let some one take that poor child and put some dry clothes on him before he catches his death of cold . ''
That evening , as Salome Marsh lay in her bed in a glory of sunset light , her heart filled with unutterable gratitude and happiness , Judith came into the room .
She wore her best hat and dress , and she held Lionel Hezekiah by the hand .
Lionel Hezekiah 's beaming face was scrubbed clean , and his curls fell in beautiful sleekness over the lace collar of his velvet suit .
`` How do you feel now , Salome ? ''
asked Judith gently .
`` Better .
I 've had a lovely sleep .
But where are you going , Judith ? ''
`` I am going to church , '' said Judith firmly , `` and I am going to take Lionel Hezekiah with me . ''
XII .
The End of a Quarrel Nancy Rogerson sat down on Louisa Shaw 's front doorstep and looked about her , drawing a long breath of delight that seemed tinged with pain .
Everything was very much the same ; the square garden was as charming bodge-podge of fruit and flowers , and goose-berry bushes and tiger lilies , a gnarled old apple tree sticking up here and there , and a thick cherry copse at the foot .
Behind was a row of pointed firs , coming out darkly against the swimming pink sunset sky , not looking a day older than they had looked twenty years ago , when Nancy had been a young girl walking and dreaming in their shadows .
The old willow to the left was as big and sweeping and , Nancy thought with a little shudder , probably as caterpillary , as ever .
Nancy had learned many things in her twenty years of exile from Avonlea , but she had never learned to conquer her dread of caterpillars .
`` Nothing is much changed , Louisa , '' she said , propping her chin on her plump white hands , and sniffing at the delectable odour of the bruised mint upon which Louisa was trampling .
`` I 'm glad ; I was afraid to come back for fear you would have improved the old garden out of existence , or else into some prim , orderly lawn , which would have been worse .
It 's as magnificently untidy as ever , and the fence still wobbles .
It CA N'T be the same fence , but it looks exactly like it .
No , nothing is much changed .
Thank you , Louisa . ''
Louisa had not the faintest idea what Nancy was thanking her for , but then she had never been able to fathom Nancy , much as she had always liked her in the old girlhood days that now seemed much further away to Louisa than they did to Nancy .
Louisa was separated from them by the fulness of wifehood and motherhood , while Nancy looked back only over the narrow gap that empty years make .
`` You have n't changed much yourself , Nancy , '' she said , looking admiringly at Nancy 's trim figure , in the nurse 's uniform she had donned to show Louisa what it was like , her firm , pink-and-white face and the the glossy waves of her golden brown hair .
`` You 've held your own wonderfully well . ''
`` Have n't I ? ''
said Nancy complacently .
`` Modern methods of massage and cold cream have kept away the crowsfeet , and fortunately I had the Rogerson complexion to start with .
You would n't think I was really thirty-eight , would you ?
Thirty-eight !
Twenty years ago I thought anybody who was thirty-eight was a perfect female Methuselah .
And now I feel so horribly , ridiculously young , Louisa .
Every morning when I get up I have to say solemnly to myself three times , ` You 're an old maid , Nancy Rogerson , ' to tone myself down to anything like a becoming attitude for the day . ''
`` I guess you do n't mind being an old maid much , '' said Louisa , shrugging her shoulders .
She would not have been an old maid herself for anything ; yet she inconsistently envied Nancy her freedom , her wide life in the world , her unlined brow , and care-free lightness of spirit .
`` Oh , but I do mind , '' said Nancy frankly .
`` I hate being an old maid . ''
`` Why do n't you get married , then ? ''
asked Louisa , paying an unconscious tribute to Nancy 's perennial chance by her use of the present tense .
Nancy shook her head .
`` No , that would n't suit me either .
I do n't want to be married .
Do you remember that story Anne Shirley used to tell long ago of the pupil who wanted to be a widow because ` if you were married your husband bossed you and if you were n't married people called you an old maid ? '
Well , that is precisely my opinion .
I 'd like to be a widow .
Then I 'd have the freedom of the unmarried , with the kudos of the married .
I could eat my cake and have it , too .
Oh , to be a widow ! ''
`` Nancy ! ''
said Louisa in a shocked tone .
Nancy laughed , a mellow gurgle that rippled through the garden like a brook .
`` Oh , Louisa , I can shock you yet .
That was just how you used to say ` Nancy ' long ago , as if I 'd broken all the commandments at once . ''
`` You do say such queer things , '' protested Louisa , `` and half the time I do n't know what you mean . ''
`` Bless you , dear coz , half the time I do n't myself .
Perhaps the joy of coming back to the old spot has slightly turned my brain , I 've found my lost girlhood here .
I 'm NOT thirty-eight in this garden -- it is a flat impossibility .
I 'm sweet eighteen , with a waist line two inches smaller .
Look , the sun is just setting .
I see he has still his old trick of throwing his last beams over the Wright farmhouse .
By the way , Louisa , is Peter Wright still living there ? ''
`` Yes . ''
Louisa threw a sudden interested glance at the apparently placid Nancy .
`` Married , I suppose , with half a dozen children ? ''
said Nancy indifferently , pulling up some more sprigs of mint and pinning them on her breast .
Perhaps the exertion of leaning over to do it flushed her face .
There was more than the Rogerson colour in it , anyhow , and Louisa , slow though her mental processes might be in some respects , thought she understood the meaning of a blush as well as the next one .
All the instinct of the matchmaker flamed up in her .
`` Indeed he is n't , '' she said promptly .
`` Peter Wright has never married .
He has been faithful to your memory , Nancy . ''
`` Ugh !
You make me feel as if I were buried up there in the Avonlea cemetery and had a monument over me with a weeping willow carved on it , '' shivered Nancy .
`` When it is said that a man has been faithful to a woman 's memory it generally means that he could n't get anyone else to take him . ''
`` That is n't the case with Peter , '' protested Louisa .
`` He is a good match , and many a woman would have been glad to take him , and would yet .
He 's only forty-three .
But he 's never taken the slightest interest in anyone since you threw him over , Nancy . ''
`` But I did n't .
He threw me over , '' said Nancy , plaintively , looking afar over the low-lying fields and a feathery young spruce valley to the white buildings of the Wright farm , glowing rosily in the sunset light when all the rest of Avonlea was scarfing itself in shadows .
There was laughter in her eyes .
Louisa could not pierce beneath that laughter to find if there were anything under it .
`` Fudge ! ''
said Louisa .
`` What on earth did you and Peter quarrel about ? ''
she added , curiously .
`` I 've often wondered , '' parried Nancy .
`` And you 've never seen him since ? ''
reflected Louisa .
`` No .
Has he changed much ? ''
`` Well , some .
He is gray and kind of tired-looking .
But it is n't to be wondered at -- living the life he does .
He has n't had a housekeeper for two years -- not since his old aunt died .
He just lives there alone and cooks his own meals .
I 've never been in the house , but folks say the disorder is something awful . ''
`` Yes , I should n't think Peter was cut out for a tidy housekeeper , '' said Nancy lightly , dragging up more mint .
`` Just think , Louisa , if it had n't been for that old quarrel I might be Mrs. Peter Wright at this very moment , mother to the aforesaid supposed half dozen , and vexing my soul over Peter 's meals and socks and cows . ''
`` I guess you are better off as you are , '' said Louisa .
`` Oh , I do n't know . ''
Nancy looked up at the white house on the hill again .
`` I have an awfully good time out of life , but it does n't seem to satisfy , somehow .
To be candid -- and oh , Louisa , candour is a rare thing among women when it comes to talking of the men -- I believe I 'd rather be cooking Peter 's meals and dusting his house .
I would n't mind his bad grammar now .
I 've learned one or two valuable little things out yonder , and one is that it does n't matter if a man 's grammar is askew , so long as he does n't swear at you .
By the way , is Peter as ungrammatical as ever ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know , '' said Louisa helplessly .
`` I never knew he WAS ungrammatical . ''
`` Does he still say , ' I seen , ' and ` them things ' ? ''
demanded Nancy .
`` I never noticed , '' confessed Louisa .
`` Enviable Louisa !
Would that I had been born with that blessed faculty of never noticing !
It stands a woman in better stead than beauty or brains .
I used to notice Peter 's mistakes .
When he said ' I seen , ' it jarred on me in my salad days .
I tried , oh , so tactfully , to reform him in that respect .
Peter did n't like being reformed -- the Wrights always had a fairly good opinion of themselves , you know .
It was really over a question of syntax we quarrelled .
Peter told me I 'd have to take him as he was , grammar and all , or go without him .
I went without him -- and ever since I 've been wondering if I were really sorry , or if it were merely a pleasantly sentimental regret I was hugging to my heart .
I daresay it 's the latter .
Now , Louisa , I see the beginning of the plot far down in those placid eyes of yours .
Strangle it at birth , dear Louisa .
There is no use in your trying to make up a match between Peter and me now -- no , nor in slyly inviting him up here to tea some evening , as you are even this moment thinking of doing . ''
`` Well , I must go and milk the cows , '' gasped Louisa , rather glad to make her escape .
Nancy 's power of thought-reading struck her as uncanny .
She felt afraid to remain with her cousin any longer , lest Nancy should drag to light all the secrets of her being .
Nancy sat long on the steps after Louisa had gone -- sat until the night came down , darkly and sweetly , over the garden , and the stars twinkled out above the firs .
This had been her home in girlhood .
Here she had lived and kept house for her father .
When he died , Curtis Shaw , newly married to her cousin Louisa , bought the farm from her and moved in .
Nancy stayed on with them , expecting soon to go to a home of her own .
She and Peter Wright were engaged .
Then came their mysterious quarrel , concerning the cause of which kith and kin on both sides were left in annoying ignorance .
Of the results they were not ignorant .
Nancy promptly packed up and left Avonlea seven hundred miles behind her .
She went to a hospital in Montreal and studied nursing .
In the twenty years that followed she had never even revisited Avonlea .
Her sudden descent on it this summer was a whim born of a moment 's homesick longing for this same old garden .
She had not thought about Peter .
In very truth , she had thought little about Peter for the last fifteen years .
She supposed that she had forgotten him .
But now , sitting on the old doorstep , where she had often sat in her courting days , with Peter lounging on a broad stone at her feet , something tugged at her heartstrings .
She looked over the valley to the light in the kitchen of the Wright farmhouse , and pictured Peter sitting there , lonely and uncared for , with naught but the cold comfort of his own providing .
`` Well , he should have got married , '' she said snappishly .
`` I am not going to worry because he is a lonely old bachelor when all these years I have supposed him a comfy Benedict .
Why does n't he hire him a housekeeper , at least ?
He can afford it ; the place looks prosperous .
Ugh !
I 've a fat bank account , and I 've seen almost everything in the world worth seeing ; but I 've got several carefully hidden gray hairs and a horrible conviction that grammar is n't one of the essential things in life after all .
Well , I 'm not going to moon out here in the dew any longer .
I 'm going in to read the smartest , frilliest , frothiest society novel in my trunk . ''
In the week that followed Nancy enjoyed herself after her own fashion .
She read and swung in the garden , having a hammock hung under the firs .
She went far afield , in rambles to woods and lonely uplands .
`` I like it much better than meeting people , '' she said , when Louisa suggested going to see this one and that one , `` especially the Avonlea people .
All my old chums are gone , or hopelessly married and changed , and the young set who have come up know not Joseph , and make me feel uncomfortably middle-aged .
It 's far worse to feel middle-aged than old , you know .
Away there in the woods I feel as eternally young as Nature herself .
And oh , it 's so nice not having to fuss with thermometers and temperatures and other people 's whims .
Let me indulge my own whims , Louisa dear , and punish me with a cold bite when I come in late for meals .
I 'm not even going to church again .
It was horrible there yesterday .
The church is so offensively spick-and-span brand new and modern . ''
`` It 's thought to be the prettiest church in these parts , '' protested Louisa , a little sorely .
`` Churches should n't be pretty -- they should at least be fifty years old and mellowed into beauty .
New churches are an abomination . ''
`` Did you see Peter Wright in church ? ''
asked Louisa .
She had been bursting to ask it .
Nancy nodded .
`` Verily , yes .
He sat right across from me in the corner pew .
I did n't think him painfully changed .
Iron-gray hair becomes him .
But I was horribly disappointed in myself .
I had expected to feel at least a romantic thrill , but all I felt was a comfortable interest , such as I might have taken in any old friend .
Do my utmost , Louisa , I could n't compass a thrill . ''
`` Did he come to speak to you ? ''
asked Louisa , who had n't any idea what Nancy meant by her thrills .
`` Alas , no .
It was n't my fault .
I stood at the door outside with the most amiable expression I could assume , but Peter merely sauntered away without a glance in my direction .
It would be some comfort to my vanity if I could believe it was on account of rankling spite or pride .
But the honest truth , dear Weezy , is that it looked to me exactly as if he never thought of it .
He was more interested in talking about the hay crop with Oliver Sloane -- who , by the way , is more Oliver Sloaneish than ever . ''
`` If you feel as you said you did the other night , why did n't you go and speak to him ? ''
Louisa wanted to know .
`` But I do n't feel that way now .
That was just a mood .
You do n't know anything about moods , dearie .
You do n't know what it is to yearn desperately one hour for something you would n't take if it were offered you the next . ''
`` But that is foolishness , '' protested Louisa .
`` To be sure it is -- rank foolishness .
But oh , it is so delightful to be foolish after being compelled to be unbrokenly sensible for twenty years .
Well , I 'm going picking strawberries this afternoon , Lou .
Do n't wait tea for me .
I probably wo n't be back till dark .
I 've only four more days to stay and I want to make the most of them . ''
Nancy wandered far and wide in her rambles that afternoon .
When she had filled her jug she still roamed about with delicious aimlessness .
Once she found herself in a wood lane skirting a field wherein a man was mowing hay .
The man was Peter Wright .
Nancy walked faster when she discovered this , with never a roving glance , and presently the green , ferny depths of the maple woods swallowed her up .
From old recollections , she knew that she was on Peter Morrison 's land , and calculated that if she kept straight on she would come out where the old Morrison house used to be .
Her calculations proved correct , with a trifling variation .
She came out fifty yards south of the old deserted Morrison house , and found herself in the yard of the Wright farm !
Passing the house -- the house where she had once dreamed of reigning as mistress -- Nancy 's curiosity overcame her .
The place was not in view of any other near house .
She deliberately went up to it intending -- low be it spoken -- to peep in at the kitchen window .
But , seeing the door wide open , she went to it instead and halted on the step , looking about her keenly .
The kitchen was certainly pitiful in its disorder .
The floor had apparently not been swept for a fortnight .
On the bare deal table were the remnants of Peter 's dinner , a meal that could not have been very tempting at its best .
`` What a miserable place for a human being to live in ! ''
groaned Nancy .
`` Look at the ashes on that stove !
And that table !
Is it any wonder that Peter has got gray ?
He 'll work hard haymaking all the afternoon -- and then come home to THIS ! ''
An idea suddenly darted into Nancy 's brain .
At first she looked aghast .
Then she laughed and glanced at her watch .
`` I 'll do it -- just for fun and a little pity .
It 's half-past two , and Peter wo n't be home till four at the earliest .
I 'll have a good hour to do it in , and still make my escape in good time .
Nobody will ever know ; nobody can see me here . ''
Nancy went in , threw off her hat , and seized a broom .
The first thing she did was to give the kitchen a thorough sweeping .
Then she kindled a fire , put a kettle full of water on to heat , and attacked the dishes .
From the number of them she rightly concluded that Peter had n't washed any for at least a week .
`` I suppose he just uses the clean ones as long as they hold out , and then has a grand wash-up , '' she laughed .
`` I wonder where he keeps his dish-towels , if he has any . ''
Evidently Peter had n't any .
At least , Nancy could n't find any .
She marched boldly into the dusty sitting-room and explored the drawers of an old-fashioned sideboard , confiscating a towel she found there .
As she worked , she hummed a song ; her steps were light and her eyes bright with excitement .
Nancy was enjoying herself thoroughly , there was no doubt of that .
The spice of mischief in the adventure pleased her mightily .
The dishes washed , she hunted up a clean , but yellow and evidently long unused tablecloth out of the sideboard , and proceeded to set the table and get Peter 's tea .
She found bread and butter in the pantry , a trip to the cellar furnished a pitcher of cream , and Nancy recklessly heaped the contents of her strawberry jug on Peter 's plate .
The tea was made and set back to keep warm .
And , as a finishing touch , Nancy ravaged the old neglected garden and set a huge bowl of crimson roses in the centre of the table .
`` Now I must go , '' she said aloud .
`` Would n't it be fun to see Peter 's face when he comes in , though ?
Ha-hum !
I 've enjoyed doing this -- but why ?
Nancy Rogerson , do n't be asking yourself conundrums .
Put on your hat and proceed homeward , constructing on your way some reliable fib to account to Louisa for the absence of your strawberries . ''
Nancy paused a moment and looked around wistfully .
She had made the place look cheery and neat and homelike .
She felt that queer tugging at her heart-strings again .
Suppose she belonged here , and was waiting for Peter to come home to tea .
Suppose -- Nancy whirled around with a sudden horrible prescience of what she was going to see !
Peter Wright was standing in the doorway .
Nancy 's face went crimson .
For the first time in her life she had not a word to say for herself .
Peter looked at her and then at the table , with its fruit and flowers .
`` Thank you , '' he said politely .
Nancy recovered herself .
With a shame-faced laugh , she held out her hand .
`` Do n't have me arrested for trespass , Peter .
I came and looked in at your kitchen out of impertinent curiosity , and just for fun I thought I 'd come in and get your tea .
I thought you 'd be so surprised -- and I meant to go before you came home , of course . ''
`` I would n't have been surprised , '' said Peter , shaking hands .
`` I saw you go past the field and I tied the horses and followed you down through the woods .
I 've been sitting on the fence back yonder , watching your comings and goings . ''
`` Why did n't you come and speak to me at church yesterday , Peter ? ''
demanded Nancy boldly .
`` I was afraid I would say something ungrammatical , '' answered Peter drily .
The crimson flamed over Nancy 's face again .
She pulled her hand away .
`` That 's cruel of you , Peter . ''
Peter suddenly laughed .
There was a note of boyishness in the laughter .
`` So it is , '' he said , `` but I had to get rid of the accumulated malice and spite of twenty years somehow .
It 's all gone now , and I 'll be as amiable as I know how .
But since you have gone to the trouble of getting my supper for me , Nancy , you must stay and help me eat it .
Them strawberries look good .
I have n't had any this summer -- been too busy to pick them . ''
Nancy stayed .
She sat at the head of Peter 's table and poured his tea for him .
She talked to him wittily of the Avonlea people and the changes in their old set .
Peter followed her lead with an apparent absence of self-consciousness , eating his supper like a man whose heart and mind were alike on good terms with him .
Nancy felt wretched -- and , at the same time , ridiculously happy .
It seemed the most grotesque thing in the world that she should be presiding there at Peter 's table , and yet the most natural .
There were moments when she felt like crying -- other moments when her laughter was as ready and spontaneous as a girl 's .
Sentiment and humour had always waged an equal contest in Nancy 's nature .
When Peter had finished his strawberries he folded his arms on the table and looked admiringly at Nancy .
`` You look well at the head of a table , Nancy , '' he said critically .
`` How is it that you have n't been presiding at one of your own long before this ?
I thought you 'd meet a lots of men out in the world that you 'd like -- men who talked good grammar . ''
`` Peter , do n't ! ''
said Nancy , wincing .
`` I was a goose . ''
`` No , you were quite right .
I was a tetchy fool .
If I 'd had any sense , I 'd have felt thankful you thought enough of me to want to improve me , and I 'd have tried to kerrect my mistakes instead of getting mad .
It 's too late now , I suppose . ''
`` Too late for what ? ''
said Nancy , plucking up heart of grace at something in Peter 's tone and look .
`` For -- kerrecting mistakes . ''
`` Grammatical ones ? ''
`` Not exactly .
I guess them mistakes are past kerrecting in an old fellow like me .
Worse mistakes , Nancy .
I wonder what you would say if I asked you to forgive me , and have me after all . ''
`` I 'd snap you up before you 'd have time to change your mind , '' said Nancy brazenly .
She tried to look Peter in the face , but her blue eyes , where tears and mirth were blending , faltered down before his gray ones .
Peter stood up , knocking over his chair , and strode around the table to her .
`` Nancy , my girl ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Further_Chronicles_of_Avonlea.txt.out
INTRODUCTION It is no exaggeration to say that what Longfellow did for Acadia , Miss Montgomery has done for Prince Edward Island .
More than a million readers , young people as well as their parents and uncles and aunts , possess in the picture-galleries of their memories the exquisite landscapes of Avonlea , limned with as poetic a pencil as Longfellow wielded when he told the ever-moving story of Grand Pre .
Only genius of the first water has the ability to conjure up such a character as Anne Shirley , the heroine of Miss Montgomery 's first novel , `` Anne of Green Gables , '' and to surround her with people so distinctive , so real , so true to psychology .
Anne is as lovable a child as lives in all fiction .
Natasha in Count Tolstoi 's great novel , `` War and Peace , '' dances into our ken , with something of the same buoyancy and naturalness ; but into what a commonplace young woman she develops !
Anne , whether as the gay little orphan in her conquest of the master and mistress of Green Gables , or as the maturing and self-forgetful maiden of Avonlea , keeps up to concert-pitch in her charm and her winsomeness .
There is nothing in her to disappoint hope or imagination .
Part of the power of Miss Montgomery -- and the largest part -- is due to her skill in compounding humor and pathos .
The humor is honest and golden ; it never wearies the reader ; the pathos is never sentimentalized , never degenerates into bathos , is never morbid .
This combination holds throughout all her works , longer or shorter , and is particularly manifest in the present collection of fifteen short stories , which , together with those in the first volume of the Chronicles of Avonlea , present a series of piquant and fascinating pictures of life in Prince Edward Island .
The humor is shown not only in the presentation of quaint and unique characters , but also in the words which fall from their mouths .
Aunt Cynthia `` always gave you the impression of a full-rigged ship coming gallantly on before a favorable wind ; '' no further description is needed -- only one such personage could be found in Avonlea .
You would recognize her at sight .
Ismay Meade 's disposition is summed up when we are told that she is `` good at having presentiments -- after things happen . ''
What cleverer embodiment of innate obstinacy than in Isabella Spencer -- `` a wisp of a woman who looked as if a breath would sway her but was so set in her ways that a tornado would hardly have caused her to swerve an inch from her chosen path ; '' or than in Mrs. Eben Andrews -LRB- in `` Sara 's Way '' -RRB- who `` looked like a woman whose opinions were always very decided and warranted to wear ! ''
This gift of characterization in a few words is lavished also on material objects , as , for instance ; what more is needed to describe the forlornness of the home from which Anne was rescued than the statement that even the trees around it `` looked like orphans '' ?
The poetic touch , too , never fails in the right place and is never too frequently introduced in her descriptions .
They throw a glamor over that Northern land which otherwise you might imagine as rather cold and barren .
What charming Springs they must have there !
One sees all the fruit-trees clad in bridal garments of pink and white ; and what a translucent sky smiles down on the ponds and the reaches of bay and cove !
`` The Eastern sky was a great arc of crystal , smitten through with auroral crimsonings . ''
`` She was as slim and lithe as a young white-stemmed birch-tree ; her hair was like a soft dusky cloud , and her eyes were as blue as Avonlea Harbor in a fair twilight , when all the sky is a-bloom over it . ''
Sentiment with a humorous touch to it prevails in the first two stories of the present book .
The one relates to the disappearance of a valuable white Persian cat with a blue spot in its tail .
`` Fatima '' is like the apple of her eye to the rich old aunt who leaves her with two nieces , with a stern injunction not to let her out of the house .
Of course both Sue and Ismay detest cats ; Ismay hates them , Sue loathes them ; but Aunt Cynthia 's favor is worth preserving .
You become as much interested in Fatima 's fate as if she were your own pet , and the climax is no less unexpected than it is natural , especially when it is made also the last act of a pretty comedy of love .
Miss Montgomery delights in depicting the romantic episodes hidden in the hearts of elderly spinsters as , for instance , in the case of Charlotte Holmes , whose maid Nancy would have sent for the doctor and subjected her to a porous plaster while waiting for him , had she known that up stairs there was a note-book full of original poems .
Rather than bear the stigma of never having had a love-affair , this sentimental lady invents one to tell her mocking young friends .
The dramatic and unexpected denouement is delightful fun .
Another note-book reveals a deeper romance in the case of Miss Emily ; this is related by Anne of Green Gables , who once or twice flashes across the scene , though for the most part her friends and neighbors at White Sands or Newbridge or Grafton as well as at Avonlea are the persons involved .
In one story , the last , `` Tannis of the Flats , '' the secret of Elinor Blair 's spinsterhood is revealed in an episode which carries the reader from Avonlea to Saskatchewan and shows the unselfish devotion of a half-breed Indian girl .
The story is both poignant and dramatic .
Its one touch of humor is where Jerome Carey curses his fate in being compelled to live in that desolate land in `` the picturesque language permissible in the far Northwest . ''
Self-sacrifice , as the real basis of happiness , is a favorite theme in Miss Montgomery 's fiction .
It is raised to the nth power in the story entitled , `` In Her Selfless Mood , '' where an ugly , misshapen girl devotes her life and renounces marriage for the sake of looking after her weak and selfish half-brother .
The same spirit is found in `` Only a Common Fellow , '' who is haloed with a certain splendor by renouncing the girl he was to marry in favor of his old rival , supposed to have been killed in France , but happily delivered from that tragic fate .
Miss Montgomery loves to introduce a little child or a baby as a solvent of old feuds or domestic quarrels .
In `` The Dream Child , '' a foundling boy , drifting in through a storm in a dory , saves a heart-broken mother from insanity .
In `` Jane 's Baby , '' a baby-cousin brings reconciliation between the two sisters , Rosetta and Carlotta , who had not spoken for twenty years because `` the slack-twisted '' Jacob married the younger of the two .
Happiness generally lights up the end of her stories , however tragic they may set out to be .
In `` The Son of His Mother , '' Thyra is a stern woman , as `` immovable as a stone image . ''
She had only one son , whom she worshipped ; `` she never wanted a daughter , but she pitied and despised all sonless women . ''
She demanded absolute obedience from Chester -- not only obedience , but also utter affection , and she hated his dog because the boy loved him : `` She could not share her love even with a dumb brute . ''
When Chester falls in love , she is relentless toward the beautiful young girl and forces Chester to give her up .
But a terrible sorrow brings the old woman and the young girl into sympathy , and unspeakable joy is born of the trial .
Happiness also comes to `` The Brother who Failed . ''
The Monroes had all been successful in the eyes of the world except Robert : one is a millionaire , another a college president , another a famous singer .
Robert overhears the old aunt , Isabel , call him a total failure , but , at the family dinner , one after another stands up and tells how Robert 's quiet influence and unselfish aid had started them in their brilliant careers , and the old aunt , wiping the tears from her eyes , exclaims : `` I guess there 's a kind of failure that 's the best success . ''
In one story there is an element of the supernatural , when Hester , the hard older sister , comes between Margaret and her lover and , dying , makes her promise never to become Hugh Blair 's wife , but she comes back and unites them .
In this , Margaret , just like the delightful Anne , lives up to the dictum that `` nothing matters in all God 's universe except love . ''
The story of the revival at Avonlea has also a good moral .
There is something in these continued Chronicles of Avonlea , like the delicate art which has made `` Cranford '' a classic : the characters are so homely and homelike and yet tinged with beautiful romance !
You feel that you are made familiar with a real town and its real inhabitants ; you learn to love them and sympathize with them .
Further Chronicles of Avonlea is a book to read ; and to know .
NATHAN HASKELL DOLE .
CONTENTS I. Aunt Cynthia 's Persian Cat II .
The Materializing of Cecil III .
Her Father 's Daughter IV .
Jane 's Baby V .
The Dream-Child VI .
The Brother Who Failed VII .
The Return of Hester VIII .
The Little Brown Book of Miss Emily IX .
Sara 's Way X .
The Son of His Mother XI .
The Education of Betty XII .
In Her Selfless Mood XIII .
The Conscience Case of David Bell XIV .
Only a Common Fellow XV .
Tannis of the Flats FURTHER CHRONICLES OF AVONLEA I. AUNT CYNTHIA 'S PERSIAN CAT Max always blesses the animal when it is referred to ; and I do n't deny that things have worked together for good after all .
But when I think of the anguish of mind which Ismay and I underwent on account of that abominable cat , it is not a blessing that arises uppermost in my thoughts .
I never was fond of cats , although I admit they are well enough in their place , and I can worry along comfortably with a nice , matronly old tabby who can take care of herself and be of some use in the world .
As for Ismay , she hates cats and always did .
But Aunt Cynthia , who adored them , never could bring herself to understand that any one could possibly dislike them .
She firmly believed that Ismay and I really liked cats deep down in our hearts , but that , owing to some perverse twist in our moral natures , we would not own up to it , but willfully persisted in declaring we did n't .
Of all cats I loathed that white Persian cat of Aunt Cynthia 's .
And , indeed , as we always suspected and finally proved , Aunt herself looked upon the creature with more pride than affection .
She would have taken ten times the comfort in a good , common puss that she did in that spoiled beauty .
But a Persian cat with a recorded pedigree and a market value of one hundred dollars tickled Aunt Cynthia 's pride of possession to such an extent that she deluded herself into believing that the animal was really the apple of her eye .
It had been presented to her when a kitten by a missionary nephew who had brought it all the way home from Persia ; and for the next three years Aunt Cynthia 's household existed to wait on that cat , hand and foot .
It was snow-white , with a bluish-gray spot on the tip of its tail ; and it was blue-eyed and deaf and delicate .
Aunt Cynthia was always worrying lest it should take cold and die .
Ismay and I used to wish that it would -- we were so tired of hearing about it and its whims .
But we did not say so to Aunt Cynthia .
She would probably never have spoken to us again and there was no wisdom in offending Aunt Cynthia .
When you have an unencumbered aunt , with a fat bank account , it is just as well to keep on good terms with her , if you can .
Besides , we really liked Aunt Cynthia very much -- at times .
Aunt Cynthia was one of those rather exasperating people who nag at and find fault with you until you think you are justified in hating them , and who then turn round and do something so really nice and kind for you that you feel as if you were compelled to love them dutifully instead .
So we listened meekly when she discoursed on Fatima -- the cat 's name was Fatima -- and , if it was wicked of us to wish for the latter 's decease , we were well punished for it later on .
One day , in November , Aunt Cynthia came sailing out to Spencervale .
She really came in a phaeton , drawn by a fat gray pony , but somehow Aunt Cynthia always gave you the impression of a full rigged ship coming gallantly on before a favorable wind .
That was a Jonah day for us all through .
Everything had gone wrong .
Ismay had spilled grease on her velvet coat , and the fit of the new blouse I was making was hopelessly askew , and the kitchen stove smoked and the bread was sour .
Moreover , Huldah Jane Keyson , our tried and trusty old family nurse and cook and general `` boss , '' had what she called the `` realagy '' in her shoulder ; and , though Huldah Jane is as good an old creature as ever lived , when she has the `` realagy '' other people who are in the house want to get out of it and , if they ca n't , feel about as comfortable as St. Lawrence on his gridiron .
And on top of this came Aunt Cynthia 's call and request .
`` Dear me , '' said Aunt Cynthia , sniffing , `` do n't I smell smoke ?
You girls must manage your range very badly .
Mine never smokes .
But it is no more than one might expect when two girls try to keep house without a man about the place . ''
`` We get along very well without a man about the place , '' I said loftily .
Max had n't been in for four whole days and , though nobody wanted to see him particularly , I could n't help wondering why .
`` Men are nuisances . ''
`` I dare say you would like to pretend you think so , '' said Aunt Cynthia , aggravatingly .
`` But no woman ever does really think so , you know .
I imagine that pretty Anne Shirley , who is visiting Ella Kimball , does n't .
I saw her and Dr. Irving out walking this afternoon , looking very well satisfied with themselves .
If you dilly-dally much longer , Sue , you will let Max slip through your fingers yet . ''
That was a tactful thing to say to ME , who had refused Max Irving so often that I had lost count .
I was furious , and so I smiled most sweetly on my maddening aunt .
`` Dear Aunt , how amusing of you , '' I said , smoothly .
`` You talk as if I wanted Max . ''
`` So you do , '' said Aunt Cynthia .
`` If so , why should I have refused him time and again ? ''
I asked , smilingly .
Right well Aunt Cynthia knew I had .
Max always told her .
`` Goodness alone knows why , '' said Aunt Cynthia , `` but you may do it once too often and find yourself taken at your word .
There is something very fascinating about this Anne Shirley . ''
`` Indeed there is , '' I assented .
`` She has the loveliest eyes I ever saw .
She would be just the wife for Max , and I hope he will marry her . ''
`` Humph , '' said Aunt Cynthia .
`` Well , I wo n't entice you into telling any more fibs .
And I did n't drive out here to-day in all this wind to talk sense into you concerning Max .
I 'm going to Halifax for two months and I want you to take charge of Fatima for me , while I am away . ''
`` Fatima ! ''
I exclaimed .
`` Yes .
I do n't dare to trust her with the servants .
Mind you always warm her milk before you give it to her , and do n't on any account let her run out of doors . ''
I looked at Ismay and Ismay looked at me .
We knew we were in for it .
To refuse would mortally offend Aunt Cynthia .
Besides , if I betrayed any unwillingness , Aunt Cynthia would be sure to put it down to grumpiness over what she had said about Max , and rub it in for years .
But I ventured to ask , `` What if anything happens to her while you are away ? ''
`` It is to prevent that , I 'm leaving her with you , '' said Aunt Cynthia .
`` You simply must not let anything happen to her .
It will do you good to have a little responsibility .
And you will have a chance to find out what an adorable creature Fatima really is .
Well , that is all settled .
I 'll send Fatima out to-morrow . ''
`` You can take care of that horrid Fatima beast yourself , '' said Ismay , when the door closed behind Aunt Cynthia .
`` I wo n't touch her with a yard-stick .
You had no business to say we 'd take her . ''
`` Did I say we would take her ? ''
I demanded , crossly .
`` Aunt Cynthia took our consent for granted .
And you know , as well as I do , we could n't have refused .
So what is the use of being grouchy ? ''
`` If anything happens to her Aunt Cynthia will hold us responsible , '' said Ismay darkly .
`` Do you think Anne Shirley is really engaged to Gilbert Blythe ? ''
I asked curiously .
`` I 've heard that she was , '' said Ismay , absently .
`` Does she eat anything but milk ?
Will it do to give her mice ? ''
`` Oh , I guess so .
But do you think Max has really fallen in love with her ? ''
`` I dare say .
What a relief it will be for you if he has . ''
`` Oh , of course , '' I said , frostily .
`` Anne Shirley or Anne Anybody Else , is perfectly welcome to Max if she wants him .
I certainly do not .
Ismay Meade , if that stove does n't stop smoking I shall fly into bits .
This is a detestable day .
I hate that creature ! ''
`` Oh , you should n't talk like that , when you do n't even know her , '' protested Ismay .
`` Every one says Anne Shirley is lovely -- '' `` I was talking about Fatima , '' I cried in a rage .
`` Oh ! ''
said Ismay .
Ismay is stupid at times .
I thought the way she said `` Oh '' was inexcusably stupid .
Fatima arrived the next day .
Max brought her out in a covered basket , lined with padded crimson satin .
Max likes cats and Aunt Cynthia .
He explained how we were to treat Fatima and when Ismay had gone out of the room -- Ismay always went out of the room when she knew I particularly wanted her to remain -- he proposed to me again .
Of course I said no , as usual , but I was rather pleased .
Max had been proposing to me about every two months for two years .
Sometimes , as in this case , he went three months , and then I always wondered why .
I concluded that he could not be really interested in Anne Shirley , and I was relieved .
I did n't want to marry Max but it was pleasant and convenient to have him around , and we would miss him dreadfully if any other girl snapped him up .
He was so useful and always willing to do anything for us -- nail a shingle on the roof , drive us to town , put down carpets -- in short , a very present help in all our troubles .
So I just beamed on him when I said no .
Max began counting on his fingers .
When he got as far as eight he shook his head and began over again .
`` What is it ? ''
I asked .
`` I 'm trying to count up how many times I have proposed to you , '' he said .
`` But I ca n't remember whether I asked you to marry me that day we dug up the garden or not .
If I did it makes -- '' `` No , you did n't , '' I interrupted .
`` Well , that makes it eleven , '' said Max reflectively .
`` Pretty near the limit , is n't it ?
My manly pride will not allow me to propose to the same girl more than twelve times .
So the next time will be the last , Sue darling . ''
`` Oh , '' I said , a trifle flatly .
I forgot to resent his calling me darling .
I wondered if things would n't be rather dull when Max gave up proposing to me .
It was the only excitement I had .
But of course it would be best -- and he could n't go on at it forever , so , by the way of gracefully dismissing the subject , I asked him what Miss Shirley was like .
`` Very sweet girl , '' said Max .
`` You know I always admired those gray-eyed girls with that splendid Titian hair . ''
I am dark , with brown eyes .
Just then I detested Max .
I got up and said I was going to get some milk for Fatima .
I found Ismay in a rage in the kitchen .
She had been up in the garret , and a mouse had run across her foot .
Mice always get on Ismay 's nerves .
`` We need a cat badly enough , '' she fumed , `` but not a useless , pampered thing , like Fatima .
That garret is literally swarming with mice .
You 'll not catch me going up there again . ''
Fatima did not prove such a nuisance as we had feared .
Huldah Jane liked her , and Ismay , in spite of her declaration that she would have nothing to do with her , looked after her comfort scrupulously .
She even used to get up in the middle of the night and go out to see if Fatima was warm .
Max came in every day and , being around , gave us good advice .
Then one day , about three weeks after Aunt Cynthia 's departure , Fatima disappeared -- just simply disappeared as if she had been dissolved into thin air .
We left her one afternoon , curled up asleep in her basket by the fire , under Huldah Jane 's eye , while we went out to make a call .
When we came home Fatima was gone .
Huldah Jane wept and was as one whom the gods had made mad .
She vowed that she had never let Fatima out of her sight the whole time , save once for three minutes when she ran up to the garret for some summer savory .
When she came back the kitchen door had blown open and Fatima had vanished .
Ismay and I were frantic .
We ran about the garden and through the out-houses , and the woods behind the house , like wild creatures , calling Fatima , but in vain .
Then Ismay sat down on the front doorsteps and cried .
`` She has got out and she 'll catch her death of cold and Aunt Cynthia will never forgive us . ''
`` I 'm going for Max , '' I declared .
So I did , through the spruce woods and over the field as fast as my feet could carry me , thanking my stars that there was a Max to go to in such a predicament .
Max came over and we had another search , but without result .
Days passed , but we did not find Fatima .
I would certainly have gone crazy had it not been for Max .
He was worth his weight in gold during the awful week that followed .
We did not dare advertise , lest Aunt Cynthia should see it ; but we inquired far and wide for a white Persian cat with a blue spot on its tail , and offered a reward for it ; but nobody had seen it , although people kept coming to the house , night and day , with every kind of a cat in baskets , wanting to know if it was the one we had lost .
`` We shall never see Fatima again , '' I said hopelessly to Max and Ismay one afternoon .
I had just turned away an old woman with a big , yellow tommy which she insisted must be ours -- `` cause it kem to our place , mem , a-yowling fearful , mem , and it do n't belong to nobody not down Grafton way , mem . ''
`` I 'm afraid you wo n't , '' said Max .
`` She must have perished from exposure long ere this . ''
`` Aunt Cynthia will never forgive us , '' said Ismay , dismally .
`` I had a presentiment of trouble the moment that cat came to this house . ''
We had never heard of this presentiment before , but Ismay is good at having presentiments -- after things happen .
`` What shall we do ? ''
I demanded , helplessly .
`` Max , ca n't you find some way out of this scrape for us ? ''
`` Advertise in the Charlottetown papers for a white Persian cat , '' suggested Max .
`` Some one may have one for sale .
If so , you must buy it , and palm it off on your good Aunt as Fatima .
She 's very short-sighted , so it will be quite possible . ''
`` But Fatima has a blue spot on her tail , '' I said .
`` You must advertise for a cat with a blue spot on its tail , '' said Max .
`` It will cost a pretty penny , '' said Ismay dolefully .
`` Fatima was valued at one hundred dollars . ''
`` We must take the money we have been saving for our new furs , '' I said sorrowfully .
`` There is no other way out of it .
It will cost us a good deal more if we lose Aunt Cynthia 's favor .
She is quite capable of believing that we have made away with Fatima deliberately and with malice aforethought . ''
So we advertised .
Max went to town and had the notice inserted in the most important daily .
We asked any one who had a white Persian cat , with a blue spot on the tip of its tail , to dispose of , to communicate with M. I. , care of the Enterprise .
We really did not have much hope that anything would come of it , so we were surprised and delighted over the letter Max brought home from town four days later .
It was a type-written screed from Halifax stating that the writer had for sale a white Persian cat answering to our description .
The price was a hundred and ten dollars , and , if M. I. cared to go to Halifax and inspect the animal , it would be found at 110 Hollis Street , by inquiring for `` Persian . ''
`` Temper your joy , my friends , '' said Ismay , gloomily .
`` The cat may not suit .
The blue spot may be too big or too small or not in the right place .
I consistently refuse to believe that any good thing can come out of this deplorable affair . ''
Just at this moment there was a knock at the door and I hurried out .
The postmaster 's boy was there with a telegram .
I tore it open , glanced at it , and dashed back into the room .
`` What is it now ? ''
cried Ismay , beholding my face .
I held out the telegram .
It was from Aunt Cynthia .
She had wired us to send Fatima to Halifax by express immediately .
For the first time Max did not seem ready to rush into the breach with a suggestion .
It was I who spoke first .
`` Max , '' I said , imploringly , `` you 'll see us through this , wo n't you ?
Neither Ismay nor I can rush off to Halifax at once .
You must go to-morrow morning .
Go right to 110 Hollis Street and ask for ` Persian . '
If the cat looks enough like Fatima , buy it and take it to Aunt Cynthia .
If it does n't -- but it must !
You 'll go , wo n't you ? ''
`` That depends , '' said Max .
I stared at him .
This was so unlike Max .
`` You are sending me on a nasty errand , '' he said , coolly .
`` How do I know that Aunt Cynthia will be deceived after all , even if she be short-sighted .
Buying a cat in a joke is a huge risk .
And if she should see through the scheme I shall be in a pretty mess . ''
`` Oh , Max , '' I said , on the verge of tears .
`` Of course , '' said Max , looking meditatively into the fire , `` if I were really one of the family , or had any reasonable prospect of being so , I would not mind so much .
It would be all in the day 's work then .
But as it is -- '' Ismay got up and went out of the room .
`` Oh , Max , please , '' I said .
`` Will you marry me , Sue ? ''
demanded Max sternly .
`` If you will agree , I 'll go to Halifax and beard the lion in his den unflinchingly .
If necessary , I will take a black street cat to Aunt Cynthia , and swear that it is Fatima .
I 'll get you out of the scrape , if I have to prove that you never had Fatima , that she is safe in your possession at the present time , and that there never was such an animal as Fatima anyhow .
I 'll do anything , say anything -- but it must be for my future wife . ''
`` Will nothing else content you ? ''
I said helplessly .
`` Nothing . ''
I thought hard .
Of course Max was acting abominably -- but -- but -- he was really a dear fellow -- and this was the twelfth time -- and there was Anne Shirley !
I knew in my secret soul that life would be a dreadfully dismal thing if Max were not around somewhere .
Besides , I would have married him long ago had not Aunt Cynthia thrown us so pointedly at each other 's heads ever since he came to Spencervale .
`` Very well , '' I said crossly .
Max left for Halifax in the morning .
Next day we got a wire saying it was all right .
The evening of the following day he was back in Spencervale .
Ismay and I put him in a chair and glared at him impatiently .
Max began to laugh and laughed until he turned blue .
`` I am glad it is so amusing , '' said Ismay severely .
`` If Sue and I could see the joke it might be more so . ''
`` Dear little girls , have patience with me , '' implored Max .
`` If you knew what it cost me to keep a straight face in Halifax you would forgive me for breaking out now . ''
`` We forgive you -- but for pity 's sake tell us all about it , '' I cried .
`` Well , as soon as I arrived in Halifax I hurried to 110 Hollis Street , but -- see here !
Did n't you tell me your Aunt 's address was 10 Pleasant Street ? ''
`` So it is . '' '' '
T is n't .
You look at the address on a telegram next time you get one .
She went a week ago to visit another friend who lives at 110 Hollis . ''
`` Max ! ''
`` It 's a fact .
I rang the bell , and was just going to ask the maid for ` Persian ' when your Aunt Cynthia herself came through the hall and pounced on me . '' ''
` Max , ' she said , ` have you brought Fatima ? ' ''
` No , ' I answered , trying to adjust my wits to this new development as she towed me into the library .
` No , I -- I -- just came to Halifax on a little matter of business . ' ''
` Dear me , ' said Aunt Cynthia , crossly , ' I do n't know what those girls mean .
I wired them to send Fatima at once .
And she has not come yet and I am expecting a call every minute from some one who wants to buy her . ' ''
` Oh ! '
I murmured , mining deeper every minute . ''
` Yes , ' went on your aunt , ` there is an advertisement in the Charlottetown Enterprise for a Persian cat , and I answered it .
Fatima is really quite a charge , you know -- and so apt to die and be a dead loss , ' -- did your aunt mean a pun , girls ?
-- ` and so , although I am considerably attached to her , I have decided to part with her . '
`` By this time I had got my second wind , and I promptly decided that a judicious mixture of the truth was the thing required . ''
` Well , of all the curious coincidences , ' I exclaimed .
` Why , Miss Ridley , it was I who advertised for a Persian cat -- on Sue 's behalf .
She and Ismay have decided that they want a cat like Fatima for themselves . '
`` You should have seen how she beamed .
She said she knew you always really liked cats , only you would never own up to it .
We clinched the dicker then and there .
I passed her over your hundred and ten dollars -- she took the money without turning a hair -- and now you are the joint owners of Fatima .
Good luck to your bargain ! ''
`` Mean old thing , '' sniffed Ismay .
She meant Aunt Cynthia , and , remembering our shabby furs , I did n't disagree with her .
`` But there is no Fatima , '' I said , dubiously .
`` How shall we account for her when Aunt Cynthia comes home ? ''
`` Well , your aunt is n't coming home for a month yet .
When she comes you will have to tell her that the cat -- is lost -- but you need n't say WHEN it happened .
As for the rest , Fatima is your property now , so Aunt Cynthia ca n't grumble .
But she will have a poorer opinion than ever of your fitness to run a house alone . ''
When Max left I went to the window to watch him down the path .
He was really a handsome fellow , and I was proud of him .
At the gate he turned to wave me good-by , and , as he did , he glanced upward .
Even at that distance I saw the look of amazement on his face .
Then he came bolting back .
`` Ismay , the house is on fire ! ''
I shrieked , as I flew to the door .
`` Sue , '' cried Max , `` I saw Fatima , or her ghost , at the garret window a moment ago ! ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
I cried .
But Ismay was already half way up the stairs and we followed .
Straight to the garret we rushed .
There sat Fatima , sleek and complacent , sunning herself in the window .
Max laughed until the rafters rang .
`` She ca n't have been up here all this time , '' I protested , half tearfully .
`` We would have heard her meowing . ''
`` But you did n't , '' said Max .
`` She would have died of the cold , '' declared Ismay .
`` But she has n't , '' said Max .
`` Or starved , '' I cried .
`` The place is alive with mice , '' said Max .
`` No , girls , there is no doubt the cat has been here the whole fortnight .
She must have followed Huldah Jane up here , unobserved , that day .
It 's a wonder you did n't hear her crying -- if she did cry .
But perhaps she did n't , and , of course , you sleep downstairs .
To think you never thought of looking here for her ! ''
`` It has cost us over a hundred dollars , '' said Ismay , with a malevolent glance at the sleek Fatima .
`` It has cost me more than that , '' I said , as I turned to the stairway .
Max held me back for an instant , while Ismay and Fatima pattered down .
`` Do you think it has cost too much , Sue ? ''
he whispered .
I looked at him sideways .
He was really a dear .
Niceness fairly exhaled from him .
`` No-o-o , '' I said , `` but when we are married you will have to take care of Fatima , I wo n't . ''
`` Dear Fatima , '' said Max gratefully .
II .
THE MATERALIZING OF CECIL It had never worried me in the least that I was n't married , although everybody in Avonlea pitied old maids ; but it DID worry me , and I frankly confess it , that I had never had a chance to be .
Even Nancy , my old nurse and servant , knew that , and pitied me for it .
Nancy is an old maid herself , but she has had two proposals .
She did not accept either of them because one was a widower with seven children , and the other a very shiftless , good-for-nothing fellow ; but , if anybody twitted Nancy on her single condition , she could point triumphantly to those two as evidence that `` she could an she would . ''
If I had not lived all my life in Avonlea I might have had the benefit of the doubt ; but I had , and everybody knew everything about me -- or thought they did .
I had really often wondered why nobody had ever fallen in love with me .
I was not at all homely ; indeed , years ago , George Adoniram Maybrick had written a poem addressed to me , in which he praised my beauty quite extravagantly ; that did n't mean anything because George Adoniram wrote poetry to all the good-looking girls and never went with anybody but Flora King , who was cross-eyed and red-haired , but it proves that it was not my appearance that put me out of the running .
Neither was it the fact that I wrote poetry myself -- although not of George Adoniram 's kind -- because nobody ever knew that .
When I felt it coming on I shut myself up in my room and wrote it out in a little blank book I kept locked up .
It is nearly full now , because I have been writing poetry all my life .
It is the only thing I have ever been able to keep a secret from Nancy .
Nancy , in any case , has not a very high opinion of my ability to take care of myself ; but I tremble to imagine what she would think if she ever found out about that little book .
I am convinced she would send for the doctor post-haste and insist on mustard plasters while waiting for him .
Nevertheless , I kept on at it , and what with my flowers and my cats and my magazines and my little book , I was really very happy and contented .
But it DID sting that Adella Gilbert , across the road , who has a drunken husband , should pity `` poor Charlotte '' because nobody had ever wanted her .
Poor Charlotte indeed !
If I had thrown myself at a man 's head the way Adella Gilbert did at -- but there , there , I must refrain from such thoughts .
I must not be uncharitable .
The Sewing Circle met at Mary Gillespie 's on my fortieth birthday .
I have given up talking about my birthdays , although that little scheme is not much good in Avonlea where everybody knows your age -- or if they make a mistake it is never on the side of youth .
But Nancy , who grew accustomed to celebrating my birthdays when I was a little girl , never gets over the habit , and I do n't try to cure her , because , after all , it 's nice to have some one make a fuss over you .
She brought me up my breakfast before I got up out of bed -- a concession to my laziness that Nancy would scorn to make on any other day of the year .
She had cooked everything I like best , and had decorated the tray with roses from the garden and ferns from the woods behind the house .
I enjoyed every bit of that breakfast , and then I got up and dressed , putting on my second best muslin gown .
I would have put on my really best if I had not had the fear of Nancy before my eyes ; but I knew she would never condone THAT , even on a birthday .
I watered my flowers and fed my cats , and then I locked myself up and wrote a poem on June .
I had given up writing birthday odes after I was thirty .
In the afternoon I went to the Sewing Circle .
When I was ready for it I looked in my glass and wondered if I could really be forty .
I was quite sure I did n't look it .
My hair was brown and wavy , my cheeks were pink , and the lines could hardly be seen at all , though possibly that was because of the dim light .
I always have my mirror hung in the darkest corner of my room .
Nancy can not imagine why .
I know the lines are there , of course ; but when they do n't show very plain I forget that they are there .
We had a large Sewing Circle , young and old alike attending .
I really can not say I ever enjoyed the meetings -- at least not up to that time -- although I went religiously because I thought it my duty to go .
The married women talked so much of their husbands and children , and of course I had to be quiet on those topics ; and the young girls talked in corner groups about their beaux , and stopped it when I joined them , as if they felt sure that an old maid who had never had a beau could n't understand at all .
As for the other old maids , they talked gossip about every one , and I did not like that either .
I knew the minute my back was turned they would fasten into me and hint that I used hair-dye and declare it was perfectly ridiculous for a woman of FIFTY to wear a pink muslin dress with lace-trimmed frills .
There was a full attendance that day , for we were getting ready for a sale of fancy work in aid of parsonage repairs .
The young girls were merrier and noisier than usual .
Wilhelmina Mercer was there , and she kept them going .
The Mercers were quite new to Avonlea , having come here only two months previously .
I was sitting by the window and Wilhelmina Mercer , Maggie Henderson , Susette Cross and Georgie Hall were in a little group just before me .
I was n't listening to their chatter at all , but presently Georgie exclaimed teasingly : `` Miss Charlotte is laughing at us .
I suppose she thinks we are awfully silly to be talking about beaux . ''
The truth was that I was simply smiling over some very pretty thoughts that had come to me about the roses which were climbing over Mary Gillespie 's sill .
I meant to inscribe them in the little blank book when I went home .
Georgie 's speech brought me back to harsh realities with a jolt .
It hurt me , as such speeches always did .
`` Did n't you ever have a beau , Miss Holmes ? ''
said Wilhelmina laughingly .
Just as it happened , a silence had fallen over the room for a moment , and everybody in it heard Wilhelmina 's question .
I really do not know what got into me and possessed me .
I have never been able to account for what I said and did , because I am naturally a truthful person and hate all deceit .
It seemed to me that I simply could not say `` No '' to Wilhelmina before that whole roomful of women .
It was TOO humiliating .
I suppose all the prickles and stings and slurs I had endured for fifteen years on account of never having had a lover had what the new doctor calls `` a cumulative effect '' and came to a head then and there .
`` Yes , I had one once , my dear , '' I said calmly .
For once in my life I made a sensation .
Every woman in that room stopped sewing and stared at me .
Most of them , I saw , did n't believe me , but Wilhelmina did .
Her pretty face lighted up with interest .
`` Oh , wo n't you tell us about him , Miss Holmes ? ''
she coaxed , `` and why did n't you marry him ? ''
`` That is right , Miss Mercer , '' said Josephine Cameron , with a nasty little laugh .
`` Make her tell .
We 're all interested .
It 's news to us that Charlotte ever had a beau . ''
If Josephine had not said that , I might not have gone on .
But she did say it , and , moreover , I caught Mary Gillespie and Adella Gilbert exchanging significant smiles .
That settled it , and made me quite reckless .
`` In for a penny , in for a pound , '' thought I , and I said with a pensive smile : `` Nobody here knew anything about him , and it was all long , long ago . ''
`` What was his name ? ''
asked Wilhelmina .
`` Cecil Fenwick , '' I answered promptly .
Cecil had always been my favorite name for a man ; it figured quite frequently in the blank book .
As for the Fenwick part of it , I had a bit of newspaper in my hand , measuring a hem , with `` Try Fenwick 's Porous Plasters '' printed across it , and I simply joined the two in sudden and irrevocable matrimony .
`` Where did you meet him ? ''
asked Georgie .
I hastily reviewed my past .
There was only one place to locate Cecil Fenwick .
The only time I had ever been far enough away from Avonlea in my life was when I was eighteen and had gone to visit an aunt in New Brunswick .
`` In Blakely , New Brunswick , '' I said , almost believing that I had when I saw how they all took it in unsuspectingly .
`` I was just eighteen and he was twenty-three . ''
`` What did he look like ? ''
Susette wanted to know .
`` Oh , he was very handsome . ''
I proceeded glibly to sketch my ideal .
To tell the dreadful truth , I was enjoying myself ; I could see respect dawning in those girls ' eyes , and I knew that I had forever thrown off my reproach .
Henceforth I should be a woman with a romantic past , faithful to the one love of her life -- a very , very different thing from an old maid who had never had a lover .
`` He was tall and dark , with lovely , curly black hair and brilliant , piercing eyes .
He had a splendid chin , and a fine nose , and the most fascinating smile ! ''
`` What was he ? ''
asked Maggie .
`` A young lawyer , '' I said , my choice of profession decided by an enlarged crayon portrait of Mary Gillespie 's deceased brother on an easel before me .
He had been a lawyer .
`` Why did n't you marry him ? ''
demanded Susette .
`` We quarreled , '' I answered sadly .
`` A terribly bitter quarrel .
Oh , we were both so young and so foolish .
It was my fault .
I vexed Cecil by flirting with another man '' -- was n't I coming on !
-- `` and he was jealous and angry .
He went out West and never came back .
I have never seen him since , and I do not even know if he is alive .
But -- but -- I could never care for any other man . ''
`` Oh , how interesting ! ''
sighed Wilhelmina .
`` I do so love sad love stories .
But perhaps he will come back some day yet , Miss Holmes . ''
`` Oh , no , never now , '' I said , shaking my head .
`` He has forgotten all about me , I dare say .
Or if he has n't , he has never forgiven me . ''
Mary Gillespie 's Susan Jane announced tea at this moment , and I was thankful , for my imagination was giving out , and I did n't know what question those girls would ask next .
But I felt already a change in the mental atmosphere surrounding me , and all through supper I was thrilled with a secret exultation .
Repentant ?
Ashamed ?
Not a bit of it !
I 'd have done the same thing over again , and all I felt sorry for was that I had n't done it long ago .
When I got home that night Nancy looked at me wonderingly , and said : `` You look like a girl to-night , Miss Charlotte . ''
`` I feel like one , '' I said laughing ; and I ran to my room and did what I had never done before -- wrote a second poem in the same day .
I had to have some outlet for my feelings .
I called it `` In Summer Days of Long Ago , '' and I worked Mary Gillespie 's roses and Cecil Fenwick 's eyes into it , and made it so sad and reminiscent and minor-musicky that I felt perfectly happy .
For the next two months all went well and merrily .
Nobody ever said anything more to me about Cecil Fenwick , but the girls all chattered freely to me of their little love affairs , and I became a sort of general confidant for them .
It just warmed up the cockles of my heart , and I began to enjoy the Sewing Circle famously .
I got a lot of pretty new dresses and the dearest hat , and I went everywhere I was asked and had a good time .
But there is one thing you can be perfectly sure of .
If you do wrong you are going to be punished for it sometime , somehow and somewhere .
My punishment was delayed for two months , and then it descended on my head and I was crushed to the very dust .
Another new family besides the Mercers had come to Avonlea in the spring -- the Maxwells .
There were just Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell ; they were a middle-aged couple and very well off .
Mr. Maxwell had bought the lumber mills , and they lived up at the old Spencer place which had always been `` the '' place of Avonlea .
They lived quietly , and Mrs. Maxwell hardly ever went anywhere because she was delicate .
She was out when I called and I was out when she returned my call , so that I had never met her .
It was the Sewing Circle day again -- at Sarah Gardiner 's this time .
I was late ; everybody else was there when I arrived , and the minute I entered the room I knew something had happened , although I could n't imagine what .
Everybody looked at me in the strangest way .
Of course , Wilhelmina Mercer was the first to set her tongue going .
`` Oh , Miss Holmes , have you seen him yet ? ''
she exclaimed .
`` Seen whom ? ''
I said non-excitedly , getting out my thimble and patterns .
`` Why , Cecil Fenwick .
He 's here -- in Avonlea -- visiting his sister , Mrs. Maxwell . ''
I suppose I did what they expected me to do .
I dropped everything I held , and Josephine Cameron said afterwards that Charlotte Holmes would never be paler when she was in her coffin .
If they had just known why I turned so pale !
`` It 's impossible ! ''
I said blankly .
`` It 's really true , '' said Wilhelmina , delighted at this development , as she supposed it , of my romance .
`` I was up to see Mrs. Maxwell last night , and I met him . ''
`` It -- ca n't be -- the same -- Cecil Fenwick , '' I said faintly , because I had to say something .
`` Oh , yes , it is .
He belongs in Blakely , New Brunswick , and he 's a lawyer , and he 's been out West twenty-two years .
He 's oh !
so handsome , and just as you described him , except that his hair is quite gray .
He has never married -- I asked Mrs. Maxwell -- so you see he has never forgotten you , Miss Holmes .
And , oh , I believe everything is going to come out all right . ''
I could n't exactly share her cheerful belief .
Everything seemed to me to be coming out most horribly wrong .
I was so mixed up I did n't know what to do or say .
I felt as if I were in a bad dream -- it MUST be a dream -- there could n't really be a Cecil Fenwick !
My feelings were simply indescribable .
Fortunately every one put my agitation down to quite a different cause , and they very kindly left me alone to recover myself .
I shall never forget that awful afternoon .
Right after tea I excused myself and went home as fast as I could go .
There I shut myself up in my room , but NOT to write poetry in my blank book .
No , indeed !
I felt in no poetical mood .
I tried to look the facts squarely in the face .
There was a Cecil Fenwick , extraordinary as the coincidence was , and he was here in Avonlea .
All my friends -- and foes -- believed that he was the estranged lover of my youth .
If he stayed long in Avonlea , one of two things was bound to happen .
He would hear the story I had told about him and deny it , and I would be held up to shame and derision for the rest of my natural life ; or else he would simply go away in ignorance , and everybody would suppose he had forgotten me and would pity me maddeningly .
The latter possibility was bad enough , but it was n't to be compared to the former ; and oh , how I prayed -- yes , I DID pray about it -- that he would go right away .
But Providence had other views for me .
Cecil Fenwick did n't go away .
He stayed right on in Avonlea , and the Maxwells blossomed out socially in his honor and tried to give him a good time .
Mrs. Maxwell gave a party for him .
I got a card -- but you may be very sure I did n't go , although Nancy thought I was crazy not to .
Then every one else gave parties in honor of Mr. Fenwick and I was invited and never went .
Wilhelmina Mercer came and pleaded and scolded and told me if I avoided Mr. Fenwick like that he would think I still cherished bitterness against him , and he would n't make any advances towards a reconciliation .
Wilhelmina means well , but she has n't a great deal of sense .
Cecil Fenwick seemed to be a great favorite with everybody , young and old .
He was very rich , too , and Wilhelmina declared that half the girls were after him .
`` If it was n't for you , Miss Holmes , I believe I 'd have a try for him myself , in spite of his gray hair and quick temper -- for Mrs. Maxwell says he has a pretty quick temper , but it 's all over in a minute , '' said Wilhelmina , half in jest and wholly in earnest .
As for me , I gave up going out at all , even to church .
I fretted and pined and lost my appetite and never wrote a line in my blank book .
Nancy was half frantic and insisted on dosing me with her favorite patent pills .
I took them meekly , because it is a waste of time and energy to oppose Nancy , but , of course , they did n't do me any good .
My trouble was too deep-seated for pills to cure .
If ever a woman was punished for telling a lie I was that woman .
I stopped my subscription to the Weekly Advocate because it still carried that wretched porous plaster advertisement , and I could n't bear to see it .
If it had n't been for that I would never have thought of Fenwick for a name , and all this trouble would have been averted .
One evening , when I was moping in my room , Nancy came up .
`` There 's a gentleman in the parlor asking for you , Miss Charlotte . ''
My heart gave just one horrible bounce .
`` What -- sort of a gentleman , Nancy ? ''
I faltered .
`` I think it 's that Fenwick man that there 's been such a time about , '' said Nancy , who did n't know anything about my imaginary escapades , `` and he looks to be mad clean through about something , for such a scowl I never seen . ''
`` Tell him I 'll be down directly , Nancy , '' I said quite calmly .
As soon as Nancy had clumped downstairs again I put on my lace fichu and put two hankies in my belt , for I thought I 'd probably need more than one .
Then I hunted up an old Advocate for proof , and down I went to the parlor .
I know exactly how a criminal feels going to execution , and I 've been opposed to capital punishment ever since .
I opened the parlor door and went in , carefully closing it behind me , for Nancy has a deplorable habit of listening in the hall .
Then my legs gave out completely , and I could n't have walked another step to save my life .
I just stood there , my hand on the knob , trembling like a leaf .
A man was standing by the south window looking out ; he wheeled around as I went in , and , as Nancy said , he had a scowl on and looked angry clear through .
He was very handsome , and his gray hair gave him such a distinguished look .
I recalled this afterward , but just at the moment you may be quite sure I was n't thinking about it at all .
Then all at once a strange thing happened .
The scowl went right off his face and the anger out of his eyes .
He looked astonished , and then foolish .
I saw the color creeping up into his cheeks .
As for me , I still stood there staring at him , not able to say a single word .
`` Miss Holmes , I presume , '' he said at last , in a deep , thrilling voice .
`` I -- I -- oh , confound it !
I have called -- I heard some foolish stories and I came here in a rage .
I 've been a fool -- I know now they were n't true .
Just excuse me and I 'll go away and kick myself . ''
`` No , '' I said , finding my voice with a gasp , `` you must n't go until you 've heard the truth .
It 's dreadful enough , but not as dreadful as you might otherwise think .
Those -- those stories -- I have a confession to make .
I did tell them , but I did n't know there was such a person as Cecil Fenwick in existence . ''
He looked puzzled , as well he might .
Then he smiled , took my hand and led me away from the door -- to the knob of which I was still holding with all my might -- to the sofa .
`` Let 's sit down and talk it over ` comfy , ' '' he said .
I just confessed the whole shameful business .
It was terribly humiliating , but it served me right .
I told him how people were always twitting me for never having had a beau , and how I had told them I had ; and then I showed him the porous plaster advertisement .
He heard me right through without a word , and then he threw back his big , curly , gray head and laughed .
`` This clears up a great many mysterious hints I 've been receiving ever since I came to Avonlea , '' he said , `` and finally a Mrs. Gilbert came to my sister this afternoon with a long farrago of nonsense about the love affair I had once had with some Charlotte Holmes here .
She declared you had told her about it yourself .
I confess I flamed up .
I 'm a peppery chap , and I thought -- I thought -- oh , confound it , it might as well out : I thought you were some lank old maid who was amusing herself telling ridiculous stories about me .
When you came into the room I knew that , whoever was to blame , you were not . ''
`` But I was , '' I said ruefully .
`` It was n't right of me to tell such a story -- and it was very silly , too .
But who would ever have supposed that there could be real Cecil Fenwick who had lived in Blakely ?
I never heard of such a coincidence . ''
`` It 's more than a coincidence , '' said Mr. Fenwick decidedly .
`` It 's predestination ; that is what it is .
And now let 's forget it and talk of something else . ''
We talked of something else -- or at least Mr. Fenwick did , for I was too ashamed to say much -- so long that Nancy got restive and clumped through the hall every five minutes ; but Mr. Fenwick never took the hint .
When he finally went away he asked if he might come again .
`` It 's time we made up that old quarrel , you know , '' he said , laughing .
And I , an old maid of forty , caught myself blushing like a girl .
But I felt like a girl , for it was such a relief to have that explanation all over .
I could n't even feel angry with Adella Gilbert .
She was always a mischief maker , and when a woman is born that way she is more to be pitied than blamed .
I wrote a poem in the blank book before I went to sleep ; I had n't written anything for a month , and it was lovely to be at it once more .
Mr. Fenwick did come again -- the very next evening , but one .
And he came so often after that that even Nancy got resigned to him .
One day I had to tell her something .
I shrank from doing it , for I feared it would make her feel badly .
`` Oh , I 've been expecting to hear it , '' she said grimly .
`` I felt the minute that man came into the house he brought trouble with him .
Well , Miss Charlotte , I wish you happiness .
I do n't know how the climate of California will agree with me , but I suppose I 'll have to put up with it . ''
`` But , Nancy , '' I said , `` I ca n't expect you to go away out there with me .
It 's too much to ask of you . ''
`` And where else would I be going ? ''
demanded Nancy in genuine astonishment .
`` How under the canopy could you keep house without me ?
I 'm not going to trust you to the mercies of a yellow Chinee with a pig-tail .
Where you go I go , Miss Charlotte , and there 's an end of it . ''
I was very glad , for I hated to think of parting with Nancy even to go with Cecil .
As for the blank book , I have n't told my husband about it yet , but I mean to some day .
And I 've subscribed for the Weekly Advocate again .
III .
HER FATHER 'S DAUGHTER `` We must invite your Aunt Jane , of course , '' said Mrs. Spencer .
Rachel made a protesting movement with her large , white , shapely hands -- hands which were so different from the thin , dark , twisted ones folded on the table opposite her .
The difference was not caused by hard work or the lack of it ; Rachel had worked hard all her life .
It was a difference inherent in temperament .
The Spencers , no matter what they did , or how hard they labored , all had plump , smooth , white hands , with firm , supple fingers ; the Chiswicks , even those who toiled not , neither did they spin , had hard , knotted , twisted ones .
Moreover , the contrast went deeper than externals , and twined itself with the innermost fibers of life , and thought , and action .
`` I do n't see why we must invite Aunt Jane , '' said Rachel , with as much impatience as her soft , throaty voice could express .
`` Aunt Jane does n't like me , and I do n't like Aunt Jane . ''
`` I 'm sure I do n't see why you do n't like her , '' said Mrs. Spencer .
`` It 's ungrateful of you .
She has always been very kind to you . ''
`` She has always been very kind with one hand , '' smiled Rachel .
`` I remember the first time I ever saw Aunt Jane .
I was six years old .
She held out to me a small velvet pincushion with beads on it .
And then , because I did not , in my shyness , thank her quite as promptly as I should have done , she rapped my head with her bethimbled finger to ` teach me better manners . '
It hurt horribly -- I 've always had a tender head .
And that has been Aunt Jane 's way ever since .
When I grew too big for the thimble treatment she used her tongue instead -- and that hurt worse .
And you know , mother , how she used to talk about my engagement .
She is able to spoil the whole atmosphere if she happens to come in a bad humor .
I do n't want her . ''
`` She must be invited .
People would talk so if she was n't . ''
`` I do n't see why they should .
She 's only my great-aunt by marriage .
I would n't mind in the least if people did talk .
They 'll talk anyway -- you know that , mother . ''
`` Oh , we must have her , '' said Mrs. Spencer , with the indifferent finality that marked all her words and decisions -- a finality against which it was seldom of any avail to struggle .
People , who knew , rarely attempted it ; strangers occasionally did , misled by the deceit of appearances .
Isabella Spencer was a wisp of a woman , with a pale , pretty face , uncertainly-colored , long-lashed grayish eyes , and great masses of dull , soft , silky brown hair .
She had delicate aquiline features and a small , babyish red mouth .
She looked as if a breath would sway her .
The truth was that a tornado would hardly have caused her to swerve an inch from her chosen path .
For a moment Rachel looked rebellious ; then she yielded , as she generally did in all differences of opinion with her mother .
It was not worth while to quarrel over the comparatively unimportant matter of Aunt Jane 's invitation .
A quarrel might be inevitable later on ; Rachel wanted to save all her resources for that .
She gave her shoulders a shrug , and wrote Aunt Jane 's name down on the wedding list in her large , somewhat untidy handwriting -- a handwriting which always seemed to irritate her mother .
Rachel never could understand this irritation .
She could never guess that it was because her writing looked so much like that in a certain packet of faded letters which Mrs. Spencer kept at the bottom of an old horsehair trunk in her bedroom .
They were postmarked from seaports all over the world .
Mrs. Spencer never read them or looked at them ; but she remembered every dash and curve of the handwriting .
Isabella Spencer had overcome many things in her life by the sheer force and persistency of her will .
But she could not get the better of heredity .
Rachel was her father 's daughter at all points , and Isabella Spencer escaped hating her for it only by loving her the more fiercely because of it .
Even so , there were many times when she had to avert her eyes from Rachel 's face because of the pang of the more subtle remembrances ; and never , since her child was born , could Isabella Spencer bear to gaze on that child 's face in sleep .
Rachel was to be married to Frank Bell in a fortnight 's time .
Mrs. Spencer was pleased with the match .
She was very fond of Frank , and his farm was so near to her own that she would not lose Rachel altogether .
Rachel fondly believed that her mother would not lose her at all ; but Isabella Spencer , wiser by olden experience , knew what her daughter 's marriage must mean to her , and steeled her heart to bear it with what fortitude she might .
They were in the sitting-room , deciding on the wedding guests and other details .
The September sunshine was coming in through the waving boughs of the apple tree that grew close up to the low window .
The glints wavered over Rachel 's face , as white as a wood lily , with only a faint dream of rose in the cheeks .
She wore her sleek , golden hair in a quaint arch around it .
Her forehead was very broad and white .
She was fresh and young and hopeful .
The mother 's heart contracted in a spasm of pain as she looked at her .
How like the girl was to -- to -- to the Spencers !
Those easy , curving outlines , those large , mirthful blue eyes , that finely molded chin !
Isabella Spencer shut her lips firmly and crushed down some unbidden , unwelcome memories .
`` There will be about sixty guests , all told , '' she said , as if she were thinking of nothing else .
`` We must move the furniture out of this room and set the supper-table here .
The dining-room is too small .
We must borrow Mrs. Bell 's forks and spoons .
She offered to lend them .
I 'd never have been willing to ask her .
The damask table cloths with the ribbon pattern must be bleached to-morrow .
Nobody else in Avonlea has such tablecloths .
And we 'll put the little dining-room table on the hall landing , upstairs , for the presents . ''
Rachel was not thinking about the presents , or the housewifely details of the wedding .
Her breath was coming quicker , and the faint blush on her smooth cheeks had deepened to crimson .
She knew that a critical moment was approaching .
With a steady hand she wrote the last name on her list and drew a line under it .
`` Well , have you finished ? ''
asked her mother impatiently .
`` Hand it here and let me look over it to make sure that you have n't left anybody out that should be in . ''
Rachel passed the paper across the table in silence .
The room seemed to her to have grown very still .
She could hear the flies buzzing on the panes , the soft purr of the wind about the low eaves and through the apple boughs , the jerky beating of her own heart .
She felt frightened and nervous , but resolute .
Mrs. Spencer glanced down the list , murmuring the names aloud and nodding approval at each .
But when she came to the last name , she did not utter it .
She cast a black glance at Rachel , and a spark leaped up in the depths of the pale eyes .
On her face were anger , amazement , incredulity , the last predominating .
The final name on the list of wedding guests was the name of David Spencer .
David Spencer lived alone in a little cottage down at the Cove .
He was a combination of sailor and fisherman .
He was also Isabella Spencer 's husband and Rachel 's father .
`` Rachel Spencer , have you taken leave of your senses ?
What do you mean by such nonsense as this ? ''
`` I simply mean that I am going to invite my father to my wedding , '' answered Rachel quietly .
`` Not in my house , '' cried Mrs. Spencer , her lips as white as if her fiery tone had scathed them .
Rachel leaned forward , folded her large , capable hands deliberately on the table , and gazed unflinchingly into her mother 's bitter face .
Her fright and nervousness were gone .
Now that the conflict was actually on she found herself rather enjoying it .
She wondered a little at herself , and thought that she must be wicked .
She was not given to self-analysis , or she might have concluded that it was the sudden assertion of her own personality , so long dominated by her mother 's , which she was finding so agreeable .
`` Then there will be no wedding , mother , '' she said .
`` Frank and I will simply go to the manse , be married , and go home .
If I can not invite my father to see me married , no one else shall be invited . ''
Her lips narrowed tightly .
For the first time in her life Isabella Spencer saw a reflection of herself looking back at her from her daughter 's face -- a strange , indefinable resemblance that was more of soul and spirit than of flesh and blood .
In spite of her anger her heart thrilled to it .
As never before , she realized that this girl was her own and her husband 's child , a living bond between them wherein their conflicting natures mingled and were reconciled .
She realized too , that Rachel , so long sweetly meek and obedient , meant to have her own way in this case -- and would have it .
`` I must say that I ca n't see why you are so set on having your father see you married , '' she said with a bitter sneer .
`` HE has never remembered that he is your father .
He cares nothing about you -- never did care . ''
Rachel took no notice of this taunt .
It had no power to hurt her , its venom being neutralized by a secret knowledge of her own in which her mother had no share .
`` Either I shall invite my father to my wedding , or I shall not have a wedding , '' she repeated steadily , adopting her mother 's own effective tactics of repetition undistracted by argument .
`` Invite him then , '' snapped Mrs. Spencer , with the ungraceful anger of a woman , long accustomed to having her own way , compelled for once to yield .
`` It 'll be like chips in porridge anyhow -- neither good nor harm .
He wo n't come . ''
Rachel made no response .
Now that the battle was over , and the victory won , she found herself tremulously on the verge of tears .
She rose quickly and went upstairs to her own room , a dim little place shadowed by the white birches growing thickly outside -- a virginal room , where everything bespoke the maiden .
She lay down on the blue and white patchwork quilt on her bed , and cried softly and bitterly .
Her heart , at this crisis in her life , yearned for her father , who was almost a stranger to her .
She knew that her mother had probably spoken the truth when she said that he would not come .
Rachel felt that her marriage vows would be lacking in some indefinable sacredness if her father were not by to hear them spoken .
Twenty-five years before this , David Spencer and Isabella Chiswick had been married .
Spiteful people said there could be no doubt that Isabella had married David for love , since he had neither lands nor money to tempt her into a match of bargain and sale .
David was a handsome fellow , with the blood of a seafaring race in his veins .
He had been a sailor , like his father and grandfather before him ; but , when he married Isabella , she induced him to give up the sea and settle down with her on a snug farm her father had left her .
Isabella liked farming , and loved her fertile acres and opulent orchards .
She abhorred the sea and all that pertained to it , less from any dread of its dangers than from an inbred conviction that sailors were `` low '' in the social scale -- a species of necessary vagabonds .
In her eyes there was a taint of disgrace in such a calling .
David must be transformed into a respectable , home-abiding tiller of broad lands .
For five years all went well enough .
If , at times , David 's longing for the sea troubled him , he stifled it , and listened not to its luring voice .
He and Isabella were very happy ; the only drawback to their happiness lay in the regretted fact that they were childless .
Then , in the sixth year , came a crisis and a change .
Captain Barrett , an old crony of David 's , wanted him to go with him on a voyage as mate .
At the suggestion all David 's long-repressed craving for the wide blue wastes of the ocean , and the wind whistling through the spars with the salt foam in its breath , broke forth with a passion all the more intense for that very repression .
He must go on that voyage with James Barrett -- he MUST !
That over , he would be contented again ; but go he must .
His soul struggled within him like a fettered thing .
Isabella opposed the scheme vehemently and unwisely , with mordant sarcasm and unjust reproaches .
The latent obstinacy of David 's character came to the support of his longing -- a longing which Isabella , with five generations of land-loving ancestry behind her , could not understand at all .
He was determined to go , and he told Isabella so .
`` I 'm sick of plowing and milking cows , '' he said hotly .
`` You mean that you are sick of a respectable life , '' sneered Isabella .
`` Perhaps , '' said David , with a contemptuous shrug of his shoulders .
`` Anyway , I 'm going . ''
`` If you go on this voyage , David Spencer , you need never come back here , '' said Isabella resolutely .
David had gone ; he did not believe that she meant it .
Isabella believed that he did not care whether she meant it or not .
David Spencer left behind him a woman , calm outwardly , inwardly a seething volcano of anger , wounded pride , and thwarted will .
He found precisely the same woman when he came home , tanned , joyous , tamed for a while of his wanderlust , ready , with something of real affection , to go back to the farm fields and the stock-yard .
Isabella met him at the door , smileless , cold-eyed , set-lipped .
`` What do you want here ? ''
she said , in the tone she was accustomed to use to tramps and Syrian peddlers .
`` Want ! ''
David 's surprise left him at a loss for words .
`` Want !
Why , I -- I -- want my wife .
I 've come home . ''
`` This is not your home .
I 'm no wife of yours .
You made your choice when you went away , '' Isabella had replied .
Then she had gone in , shut the door , and locked it in his face .
David had stood there for a few minutes like a man stunned .
Then he had turned and walked away up the lane under the birches .
He said nothing -- then or at any other time .
From that day no reference to his wife or her concerns ever crossed his lips .
He went directly to the harbor , and shipped with Captain Barrett for another voyage .
When he came back from that in a month 's time , he bought a small house and had it hauled to the `` Cove , '' a lonely inlet from which no other human habitation was visible .
Between his sea voyages he lived there the life of a recluse ; fishing and playing his violin were his only employments .
He went nowhere and encouraged no visitors .
Isabella Spencer also had adopted the tactics of silence .
When the scandalized Chiswicks , Aunt Jane at their head , tried to patch up the matter with argument and entreaty , Isabella met them stonily , seeming not to hear what they said , and making no response .
She worsted them totally .
As Aunt Jane said in disgust , `` What can you do with a woman who wo n't even TALK ? ''
Five months after David Spencer had been turned from his wife 's door , Rachel was born .
Perhaps , if David had come to them then , with due penitence and humility , Isabella 's heart , softened by the pain and joy of her long and ardently desired motherhood might have cast out the rankling venom of resentment that had poisoned it and taken him back into it .
But David had not come ; he gave no sign of knowing or caring that his once longed-for child had been born .
When Isabella was able to be about again , her pale face was harder than ever ; and , had there been about her any one discerning enough to notice it , there was a subtle change in her bearing and manner .
A certain nervous expectancy , a fluttering restlessness was gone .
Isabella had ceased to hope secretly that her husband would yet come back .
She had in her secret soul thought he would ; and she had meant to forgive him when she had humbled him sufficiently , and when he had abased himself as she considered he should .
But now she knew that he did not mean to sue for her forgiveness ; and the hate that sprang out of her old love was a rank and speedy and persistent growth .
Rachel , from her earliest recollection , had been vaguely conscious of a difference between her own life and the lives of her playmates .
For a long time it puzzled her childish brain .
Finally , she reasoned it out that the difference consisted in the fact that they had fathers and she , Rachel Spencer , had none -- not even in the graveyard , as Carrie Bell and Lilian Boulter had .
Why was this ?
Rachel went straight to her mother , put one little dimpled hand on Isabella Spencer 's knee , looked up with great searching blue eyes , and said gravely , `` Mother , why have n't I got a father like the other little girls ? ''
Isabella Spencer laid aside her work , took the seven year old child on her lap , and told her the whole story in a few direct and bitter words that imprinted themselves indelibly on Rachel 's remembrance .
She understood clearly and hopelessly that she could never have a father -- that , in this respect , she must always be unlike other people .
`` Your father cares nothing for you , '' said Isabella Spencer in conclusion .
`` He never did care .
You must never speak of him to anybody again . ''
Rachel slipped silently from her mother 's knee and ran out to the Springtime garden with a full heart .
There she cried passionately over her mother 's last words .
It seemed to her a terrible thing that her father should not love her , and a cruel thing that she must never talk of him .
Oddly enough , Rachel 's sympathies were all with her father , in as far as she could understand the old quarrel .
She did not dream of disobeying her mother and she did not disobey her .
Never again did the child speak of her father ; but Isabella had not forbidden her to think of him , and thenceforth Rachel thought of him constantly -- so constantly that , in some strange way , he seemed to become an unguessed-of part of her inner life -- the unseen , ever-present companion in all her experiences .
She was an imaginative child , and in fancy she made the acquaintance of her father .
She had never seen him , but he was more real to her than most of the people she had seen .
He played and talked with her as her mother never did ; he walked with her in the orchard and field and garden ; he sat by her pillow in the twilight ; to him she whispered secrets she told to none other .
Once her mother asked her impatiently why she talked so much to herself .
`` I am not talking to myself .
I am talking to a very dear friend of mine , '' Rachel answered gravely .
`` Silly child , '' laughed her mother , half tolerantly , half disapprovingly .
Two years later something wonderful had happened to Rachel .
One summer afternoon she had gone to the harbor with several of her little playmates .
Such a jaunt was a rare treat to the child , for Isabella Spencer seldom allowed her to go from home with anybody but herself .
And Isabella was not an entertaining companion .
Rachel never particularly enjoyed an outing with her mother .
The children wandered far along the shore ; at last they came to a place that Rachel had never seen before .
It was a shallow cove where the waters purred on the yellow sands .
Beyond it , the sea was laughing and flashing and preening and alluring , like a beautiful , coquettish woman .
Outside , the wind was boisterous and rollicking ; here , it was reverent and gentle .
A white boat was hauled up on the skids , and there was a queer little house close down to the sands , like a big shell tossed up by the waves .
Rachel looked on it all with secret delight ; she , too , loved the lonely places of sea and shore , as her father had done .
She wanted to linger awhile in this dear spot and revel in it .
`` I 'm tired , girls , '' she announced .
`` I 'm going to stay here and rest for a spell .
I do n't want to go to Gull Point .
You go on yourselves ; I 'll wait for you here . ''
`` All alone ? ''
asked Carrie Bell , wonderingly .
`` I 'm not so afraid of being alone as some people are , '' said Rachel , with dignity .
The other girls went on , leaving Rachel sitting on the skids , in the shadow of the big white boat .
She sat there for a time dreaming happily , with her blue eyes on the far , pearly horizon , and her golden head leaning against the boat .
Suddenly she heard a step behind her .
When she turned her head a man was standing beside her , looking down at her with big , merry , blue eyes .
Rachel was quite sure that she had never seen him before ; yet those eyes seemed to her to have a strangely familiar look .
She liked him .
She felt no shyness nor timidity , such as usually afflicted her in the presence of strangers .
He was a tall , stout man , dressed in a rough fishing suit , and wearing an oilskin cap on his head .
His hair was very thick and curly and fair ; his cheeks were tanned and red ; his teeth , when he smiled , were very even and white .
Rachel thought he must be quite old , because there was a good deal of gray mixed with his fair hair .
`` Are you watching for the mermaids ? ''
he said .
Rachel nodded gravely .
From any one else she would have scrupulously hidden such a thought .
`` Yes , I am , '' she said .
`` Mother says there is no such thing as a mermaid , but I like to think there is .
Have you ever seen one ? ''
The big man sat down on a bleached log of driftwood and smiled at her .
`` No , I 'm sorry to say that I have n't .
But I have seen many other very wonderful things .
I might tell you about some of them , if you would come over here and sit by me . ''
Rachel went unhesitatingly .
When she reached him he pulled her down on his knee , and she liked it .
`` What a nice little craft you are , '' he said .
`` Do you suppose , now , that you could give me a kiss ? ''
As a rule , Rachel hated kissing .
She could seldom be prevailed upon to kiss even her uncles -- who knew it and liked to tease her for kisses until they aggravated her so terribly that she told them she could n't bear men .
But now she promptly put her arms about this strange man 's neck and gave him a hearty smack .
`` I like you , '' she said frankly .
She felt his arms tighten suddenly about her .
The blue eyes looking into hers grew misty and very tender .
Then , all at once , Rachel knew who he was .
He was her father .
She did not say anything , but she laid her curly head down on his shoulder and felt a great happiness , as of one who had come into some longed-for haven .
If David Spencer realized that she understood he said nothing .
Instead , he began to tell her fascinating stories of far lands he had visited , and strange things he had seen .
Rachel listened entranced , as if she were hearkening to a fairy tale .
Yes , he was just as she had dreamed him .
She had always been sure he could tell beautiful stories .
`` Come up to the house and I 'll show you some pretty things , '' he said finally .
Then followed a wonderful hour .
The little low-ceilinged room , with its square window , into which he took her , was filled with the flotsam and jetsam of his roving life -- things beautiful and odd and strange beyond all telling .
The things that pleased Rachel most were two huge shells on the chimney piece -- pale pink shells with big crimson and purple spots .
`` Oh , I did n't know there could be such pretty things in the world , '' she exclaimed .
`` If you would like , '' began the big man ; then he paused for a moment .
`` I 'll show you something prettier still . ''
Rachel felt vaguely that he meant to say something else when he began ; but she forgot to wonder what it was when she saw what he brought out of a little corner cupboard .
It was a teapot of some fine , glistening purple ware , coiled over by golden dragons with gilded claws and scales .
The lid looked like a beautiful golden flower and the handle was a coil of a dragon 's tail .
Rachel sat and looked at it rapt-eyed .
`` That 's the only thing of any value I have in the world -- now , '' he said .
Rachel knew there was something very sad in his eyes and voice .
She longed to kiss him again and comfort him .
But suddenly he began to laugh , and then he rummaged out some goodies for her to eat , sweetmeats more delicious than she had ever imagined .
While she nibbled them he took down an old violin and played music that made her want to dance and sing .
Rachel was perfectly happy .
She wished she might stay forever in that low , dim room with all its treasures .
`` I see your little friends coming around the point , '' he said , finally .
`` I suppose you must go .
Put the rest of the goodies in your pocket . ''
He took her up in his arms and held her tightly against his breast for a single moment .
She felt him kissing her hair .
`` There , run along , little girl .
Good-by , '' he said gently .
`` Why do n't you ask me to come and see you again ? ''
cried Rachel , half in tears .
`` I 'm coming ANYHOW . ''
`` If you can come , COME , '' he said .
`` If you do n't come , I shall know it is because you ca n't -- and that is much to know .
I 'm very , very , VERY glad , little woman , that you have come once . ''
Rachel was sitting demurely on the skids when her companions came back .
They had not seen her leaving the house , and she said not a word to them of her experiences .
She only smiled mysteriously when they asked her if she had been lonesome .
That night , for the first time , she mentioned her father 's name in her prayers .
She never forgot to do so afterwards .
She always said , `` bless mother -- and father , '' with an instinctive pause between the two names -- a pause which indicated new realization of the tragedy which had sundered them .
And the tone in which she said `` father '' was softer and more tender than the one which voiced `` mother . ''
Rachel never visited the Cove again .
Isabella Spencer discovered that the children had been there , and , although she knew nothing of Rachel 's interview with her father , she told the child that she must never again go to that part of the shore .
Rachel shed many a bitter tear in secret over this command ; but she obeyed it .
Thenceforth there had been no communication between her and her father , save the unworded messages of soul to soul across whatever may divide them .
David Spencer 's invitation to his daughter 's wedding was sent with the others , and the remaining days of Rachel 's maidenhood slipped away in a whirl of preparation and excitement in which her mother reveled , but which was distasteful to the girl .
The wedding day came at last , breaking softly and fairly over the great sea in a sheen of silver and pearl and rose , a September day , as mild and beautiful as June .
The ceremony was to be performed at eight o'clock in the evening .
At seven Rachel stood in her room , fully dressed and alone .
She had no bridesmaid , and she had asked her cousins to leave her to herself in this last solemn hour of girlhood .
She looked very fair and sweet in the sunset-light that showered through the birches .
Her wedding gown was a fine , sheer organdie , simply and daintily made .
In the loose waves of her bright hair she wore her bridegroom 's flowers , roses as white as a virgin 's dream .
She was very happy ; but her happiness was faintly threaded with the sorrow inseparable from all change .
Presently her mother came in , carrying a small basket .
`` Here is something for you , Rachel .
One of the boys from the harbor brought it up .
He was bound to give it into your own hands -- said that was his orders .
I just took it and sent him to the right-about -- told him I 'd give it to you at once , and that that was all that was necessary . ''
She spoke coldly .
She knew quite well who had sent the basket , and she resented it ; but her resentment was not quite strong enough to overcome her curiosity .
She stood silently by while Rachel unpacked the basket .
Rachel 's hands trembled as she took off the cover .
Two huge pink-spotted shells came first .
How well she remembered them !
Beneath them , carefully wrapped up in a square of foreign-looking , strangely scented silk , was the dragon teapot .
She held it in her hands and gazed at it with tears gathering thickly in her eyes .
`` Your father sent that , '' said Isabella Spencer with an odd sound in her voice .
`` I remember it well .
It was among the things I packed up and sent after him .
His father had brought it home from China fifty years ago , and he prized it beyond anything .
They used to say it was worth a lot of money . ''
`` Mother , please leave me alone for a little while , '' said Rachel , imploringly .
She had caught sight of a little note at the bottom of the basket , and she felt that she could not read it under her mother 's eyes .
Mrs. Spencer went out with unaccustomed acquiescence , and Rachel went quickly to the window , where she read her letter by the fading gleams of twilight .
It was very brief , and the writing was that of a man who holds a pen but seldom .
`` My dear little girl , '' it ran , `` I 'm sorry I ca n't go to your wedding .
It was like you to ask me -- for I know it was your doing .
I wish I could see you married , but I ca n't go to the house I was turned out of .
I hope you will be very happy .
I am sending you the shells and teapot you liked so much .
Do you remember that day we had such a good time ?
I would liked to have seen you again before you were married , but it ca n't be .
`` Your loving father , `` DAVID SPENCER . ''
Rachel resolutely blinked away the tears that filled her eyes .
A fierce desire for her father sprang up in her heart -- an insistent hunger that would not be denied .
She MUST see her father ; she MUST have his blessing on her new life .
A sudden determination took possession of her whole being -- a determination to sweep aside all conventionalities and objections as if they had not been .
It was now almost dark .
The guests would not be coming for half an hour yet .
It was only fifteen minutes ' walk over the hill to the Cove .
Hastily Rachel shrouded herself in her new raincoat , and drew a dark , protecting hood over her gay head .
She opened the door and slipped noiselessly downstairs .
Mrs. Spencer and her assistants were all busy in the back part of the house .
In a moment Rachel was out in the dewy garden .
She would go straight over the fields .
Nobody would see her .
It was quite dark when she reached the Cove .
In the crystal cup of the sky over her the stars were blinking .
Flying flakes of foam were scurrying over the sand like elfin things .
A soft little wind was crooning about the eaves of the little gray house where David Spencer was sitting , alone in the twilight , his violin on his knee .
He had been trying to play , but could not .
His heart yearned after his daughter -- yes , and after a long-estranged bride of his youth .
His love of the sea was sated forever ; his love for wife and child still cried for its own under all his old anger and stubbornness .
The door opened suddenly and the very Rachel of whom he was dreaming came suddenly in , flinging off her wraps and standing forth in her young beauty and bridal adornments , a splendid creature , almost lighting up the gloom with her radiance .
`` Father , '' she cried , brokenly , and her father 's eager arms closed around her .
Back in the house she had left , the guests were coming to the wedding .
There were jests and laughter and friendly greeting .
The bridegroom came , too , a slim , dark-eyed lad who tiptoed bashfully upstairs to the spare room , from which he presently emerged to confront Mrs. Spencer on the landing .
`` I want to see Rachel before we go down , '' he said , blushing .
Mrs. Spencer deposited a wedding present of linen on the table which was already laden with gifts , opening the door of Rachel 's room , and called her .
There was no reply ; the room was dark and still .
In sudden alarm , Isabella Spencer snatched the lamp from the hall table and held it up .
The little white room was empty .
No blushing , white-clad bride tenanted it .
But David Spencer 's letter was lying on the stand .
She caught it up and read it .
`` Rachel is gone , '' she gasped .
A flash of intuition had revealed to her where and why the girl had gone .
`` Gone ! ''
echoed Frank , his face blanching .
His pallid dismay recalled Mrs. Spencer to herself .
She gave a bitter , ugly little laugh .
`` Oh , you need n't look so scared , Frank .
She has n't run away from you .
Hush ; come in here -- shut the door .
Nobody must know of this .
Nice gossip it would make !
That little fool has gone to the Cove to see her -- her father .
I know she has .
It 's just like what she would do .
He sent her those presents -- look -- and this letter .
Read it .
She has gone to coax him to come and see her married .
She was crazy about it .
And the minister is here and it is half-past seven .
She 'll ruin her dress and shoes in the dust and dew .
And what if some one has seen her !
Was there ever such a little fool ? ''
Frank 's presence of mind had returned to him .
He knew all about Rachel and her father .
She had told him everything .
`` I 'll go after her , '' he said gently .
`` Get me my hat and coat .
I 'll slip down the back stairs and over to the Cove . ''
`` You must get out of the pantry window , then , '' said Mrs. Spencer firmly , mingling comedy and tragedy after her characteristic fashion .
`` The kitchen is full of women .
I wo n't have this known and talked about if it can possibly be helped . ''
The bridegroom , wise beyond his years in the knowledge that it was well to yield to women in little things , crawled obediently out of the pantry window and darted through the birch wood .
Mrs. Spencer had stood quakingly on guard until he had disappeared .
So Rachel had gone to her father !
Like had broken the fetters of years and fled to like .
`` It is n't much use fighting against nature , I guess , '' she thought grimly .
`` I 'm beat .
He must have thought something of her , after all , when he sent her that teapot and letter .
And what does he mean about the ` day they had such a good time ' ?
Well , it just means that she 's been to see him before , sometime , I suppose , and kept me in ignorance of it all . ''
Mrs. Spencer shut down the pantry window with a vicious thud .
`` If only she 'll come quietly back with Frank in time to prevent gossip I 'll forgive her , '' she said , as she turned to the kitchen .
Rachel was sitting on her father 's knee , with both her white arms around his neck , when Frank came in .
She sprang up , her face flushed and appealing , her eyes bright and dewy with tears .
Frank thought he had never seen her look so lovely .
`` Oh , Frank , is it very late ?
Oh , are you angry ? ''
she exclaimed timidly .
`` No , no , dear .
Of course I 'm not angry .
But do n't you think you 'd better come back now ?
It 's nearly eight and everybody is waiting . ''
`` I 've been trying to coax father to come up and see me married , '' said Rachel .
`` Help me , Frank . ''
`` You 'd better come , sir , '' said Frank , heartily , `` I 'd like it as much as Rachel would . ''
David Spencer shook his head stubbornly .
`` No , I ca n't go to that house .
I was locked out of it .
Never mind me .
I 've had my happiness in this half hour with my little girl .
I 'd like to see her married , but it is n't to be . ''
`` Yes , it is to be -- it shall be , '' said Rachel resolutely .
`` You SHALL see me married .
Frank , I 'm going to be married here in my father 's house !
That is the right place for a girl to be married .
Go back and tell the guests so , and bring them all down . ''
Frank looked rather dismayed .
David Spencer said deprecatingly : `` Little girl , do n't you think it would be -- '' `` I 'm going to have my own way in this , '' said Rachel , with a sort of tender finality .
`` Go , Frank .
I 'll obey you all my life after , but you must do this for me .
Try to understand , '' she added beseechingly .
`` Oh , I understand , '' Frank reassured her .
`` Besides , I think you are right .
But I was thinking of your mother .
She wo n't come . ''
`` Then you tell her that if she does n't come I sha n't be married at all , '' said Rachel .
She was betraying unsuspected ability to manage people .
She knew that ultimatum would urge Frank to his best endeavors .
Frank , much to Mrs. Spencer 's dismay , marched boldly in at the front door upon his return .
She pounced on him and whisked him out of sight into the supper room .
`` Where 's Rachel ?
What made you come that way ?
Everybody saw you ! ''
`` It makes no difference .
They will all have to know , anyway .
Rachel says she is going to be married from her father 's house , or not at all .
I 've come back to tell you so . ''
Isabella 's face turned crimson .
`` Rachel has gone crazy .
I wash my hands of this affair .
Do as you please .
Take the guests -- the supper , too , if you can carry it . ''
`` We 'll all come back here for supper , '' said Frank , ignoring the sarcasm .
`` Come , Mrs. Spencer , let 's make the best of it . ''
`` Do you suppose that I am going to David Spencer 's house ? ''
said Isabella Spencer violently .
`` Oh you MUST come , Mrs. Spencer , '' cried poor Frank desperately .
He began to fear that he would lose his bride past all finding in this maze of triple stubbornness .
`` Rachel says she wo n't be married at all if you do n't go , too .
Think what a talk it will make .
You know she will keep her word . ''
Isabella Spencer knew it .
Amid all the conflict of anger and revolt in her soul was a strong desire not to make a worse scandal than must of necessity be made .
The desire subdued and tamed her , as nothing else could have done .
`` I will go , since I have to , '' she said icily .
`` What ca n't be cured must be endured .
Go and tell them . ''
Five minutes later the sixty wedding guests were all walking over the fields to the Cove , with the minister and the bridegroom in the front of the procession .
They were too amazed even to talk about the strange happening .
Isabella Spencer walked behind , fiercely alone .
They all crowded into the little room of the house at the Cove , and a solemn hush fell over it , broken only by the purr of the sea-wind around it and the croon of the waves on the shore .
David Spencer gave his daughter away ; but , when the ceremony was concluded , Isabella was the first to take the girl in her arms .
She clasped her and kissed her , with tears streaming down her pale face , all her nature melted in a mother 's tenderness .
`` Rachel !
Rachel !
My child , I hope and pray that you may be happy , '' she said brokenly .
In the surge of the suddenly merry crowd of well-wishers around the bride and groom , Isabella was pushed back into a shadowy corner behind a heap of sails and ropes .
Looking up , she found herself crushed against David Spencer .
For the first time in twenty years the eyes of husband and wife met .
A strange thrill shot to Isabella 's heart ; she felt herself trembling .
`` Isabella . ''
It was David 's voice in her ear -- a voice full of tenderness and pleading -- the voice of the young wooer of her girlhood -- `` Is it too late to ask you to forgive me ?
I 've been a stubborn fool -- but there has n't been an hour in all these years that I have n't thought about you and our baby and longed for you . ''
Isabella Spencer had hated this man ; yet her hate had been but a parasite growth on a nobler stem , with no abiding roots of its own .
It withered under his words , and lo , there was the old love , fair and strong and beautiful as ever .
`` Oh -- David -- I -- was -- all -- to -- blame , '' she murmured brokenly .
Further words were lost on her husband 's lips .
When the hubbub of handshaking and congratulating had subsided , Isabella Spencer stepped out before the company .
She looked almost girlish and bridal herself , with her flushed cheeks and bright eyes .
`` Let 's go back now and have supper , and be sensible , '' she said crisply .
`` Rachel , your father is coming , too .
He is coming to STAY , '' -- with a defiant glance around the circle .
`` Come , everybody . ''
They went back with laughter and raillery over the quiet autumn fields , faintly silvered now by the moon that was rising over the hills .
The young bride and groom lagged behind ; they were very happy , but they were not so happy , after all , as the old bride and groom who walked swiftly in front .
Isabella 's hand was in her husband 's and sometimes she could not see the moonlit hills for a mist of glorified tears .
`` David , '' she whispered , as he helped her over the fence , `` how can you ever forgive me ? ''
`` There 's nothing to forgive , '' he said .
`` We 're only just married .
Who ever heard of a bridegroom talking of forgiveness ?
Everything is beginning over new for us , my girl . ''
IV .
JANE 'S BABY Miss Rosetta Ellis , with her front hair in curl-papers , and her back hair bound with a checked apron , was out in her breezy side yard under the firs , shaking her parlor rugs , when Mr. Nathan Patterson drove in .
Miss Rosetta had seen him coming down the long red hill , but she had not supposed he would be calling at that time of the morning .
So she had not run .
Miss Rosetta always ran if anybody called and her front hair was in curl-papers ; and , though the errand of the said caller might be life or death , he or she had to wait until Miss Rosetta had taken her hair out .
Everybody in Avonlea knew this , because everybody in Avonlea knew everything about everybody else .
But Mr. Patterson had wheeled into the lane so quickly and unexpectedly that Miss Rosetta had had no time to run ; so , twitching off the checked apron , she stood her ground as calmly as might be under the disagreeable consciousness of curl-papers .
`` Good morning , Miss Ellis , '' said Mr. Patterson , so somberly that Miss Rosetta instantly felt that he was the bearer of bad news .
Usually Mr. Patterson 's face was as broad and beaming as a harvest moon .
Now his expression was very melancholy and his voice positively sepulchral .
`` Good morning , '' returned Miss Rosetta , crisply and cheerfully .
She , at any rate , would not go into eclipse until she knew the reason therefor .
`` It is a fine day . ''
`` A very fine day , '' assented Mr. Patterson , solemnly .
`` I have just come from the Wheeler place , Miss Ellis , and I regret to say -- '' `` Charlotte is sick ! ''
cried Miss Rosetta , rapidly .
`` Charlotte has got another spell with her heart !
I knew it !
I 've been expecting to hear it !
Any woman that drives about the country as much as she does is liable to heart disease at any moment .
I never go outside of my gate but I meet her gadding off somewhere .
Goodness knows who looks after her place .
I should n't like to trust as much to a hired man as she does .
Well , it is very kind of you , Mr. Patterson , to put yourself out to the extent of calling to tell me that Charlotte is sick , but I do n't really see why you should take so much trouble -- I really do n't .
It does n't matter to me whether Charlotte is sick or whether she is n't .
YOU know that perfectly well , Mr. Patterson , if anybody does .
When Charlotte went and got married , on the sly , to that good-for-nothing Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` Mrs. Wheeler is quite well , '' interrupted Mr. Patterson desperately .
`` Quite well .
Nothing at all the matter with her , in fact .
I only -- '' `` Then what do you mean by coming here and telling me she was n't , and frightening me half to death ? ''
demanded Miss Rosetta , indignantly .
`` My own heart is n't very strong -- it runs in our family -- and my doctor warned me to avoid all shocks and excitement .
I do n't want to be excited , Mr. Patterson .
I wo n't be excited , not even if Charlotte has another spell .
It 's perfectly useless for you to try to excite me , Mr. Patterson . ''
`` Bless the woman , I 'm not trying to excite anybody ! ''
declared Mr. Patterson in exasperation .
`` I merely called to tell you -- '' `` To tell me WHAT ? ''
said Miss Rosetta .
`` How much longer do you mean to keep me in suspense , Mr. Patterson .
No doubt you have abundance of spare time , but -- I -- have NOT . '' ''
-- that your sister , Mrs. Wheeler , has had a letter from a cousin of yours , and she 's in Charlottetown .
Mrs. Roberts , I think her name is -- '' `` Jane Roberts , '' broke in Miss Rosetta .
`` Jane Ellis she was , before she was married .
What was she writing to Charlotte about ?
Not that I want to know , of course .
I 'm not interested in Charlotte 's correspondence , goodness knows .
But if Jane had anything in particular to write about she should have written to ME .
I am the oldest .
Charlotte had no business to get a letter from Jane Roberts without consulting me .
It 's just like her underhanded ways .
She got married the same way .
Never said a word to me about it , but just sneaked off with that unprincipled Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` Mrs. Roberts is very ill .
I understand , '' persisted Mr. Patterson , nobly resolved to do what he had come to do , `` dying , in fact , and -- '' `` Jane ill !
Jane dying ! ''
exclaimed Miss Rosetta .
`` Why , she was the healthiest girl I ever knew !
But then I 've never seen her , nor heard from her , since she got married fifteen years ago .
I dare say her husband was a brute and neglected her , and she 's pined away by slow degrees .
I 've no faith in husbands .
Look at Charlotte !
Everybody knows how Jacob Wheeler used her .
To be sure , she deserved it , but -- '' `` Mrs. Roberts ' husband is dead , '' said Mr. Patterson .
`` Died about two months ago , I understand , and she has a little baby six months old , and she thought perhaps Mrs. Wheeler would take it for old times ' sake -- '' `` Did Charlotte ask you to call and tell me this ? ''
demanded Miss Rosetta eagerly .
`` No ; she just told me what was in the letter .
She did n't mention you ; but I thought , perhaps , you ought to be told -- '' `` I knew it , '' said Miss Rosetta in a tone of bitter assurance .
`` I could have told you so .
Charlotte would n't even let me know that Jane was ill .
Charlotte would be afraid I would want to get the baby , seeing that Jane and I were such intimate friends long ago .
And who has a better right to it than me , I should like to know ?
Ai n't I the oldest ?
And have n't I had experience in bringing up babies ?
Charlotte need n't think she is going to run the affairs of our family just because she happened to get married .
Jacob Wheeler -- '' `` I must be going , '' said Mr. Patterson , gathering up his reins thankfully .
`` I am much obliged to you for coming to tell me about Jane , '' said Miss Rosetta , `` even though you have wasted a lot of precious time getting it out .
If it had n't been for you I suppose I should never have known it at all .
As it is , I shall start for town just as soon as I can get ready . ''
`` You 'll have to hurry if you want to get ahead of Mrs. Wheeler , '' advised Mr. Patterson .
`` She 's packing her trunk and going on the morning train . ''
`` I 'll pack a valise and go on the afternoon train , '' retorted Miss Rosetta triumphantly .
`` I 'll show Charlotte she is n't running the Ellis affairs .
She married out of them into the Wheelers .
She can attend to them .
Jacob Wheeler was the most -- '' But Mr. Patterson had driven away .
He felt that he had done his duty in the face of fearful odds , and he did not want to hear anything more about Jacob Wheeler .
Rosetta Ellis and Charlotte Wheeler had not exchanged a word for ten years .
Before that time they had been devoted to each other , living together in the little Ellis cottage on the White Sands road , as they had done ever since their parents ' death .
The trouble began when Jacob Wheeler had commenced to pay attention to Charlotte , the younger and prettier of two women who had both ceased to be either very young or very pretty .
Rosetta had been bitterly opposed to the match from the first .
She vowed she had no use for Jacob Wheeler .
There were not lacking malicious people to hint that this was because the aforesaid Jacob Wheeler had selected the wrong sister upon whom to bestow his affections .
Be that as it might , Miss Rosetta certainly continued to render the course of Jacob Wheeler 's true love exceedingly rough and tumultuous .
The end of it was that Charlotte had gone quietly away one morning and married Jacob Wheeler without Miss Rosetta 's knowing anything about it .
Miss Rosetta had never forgiven her for it , and Charlotte had never forgiven the things Rosetta had said to her when she and Jacob returned to the Ellis cottage .
Since then the sisters had been avowed and open foes , the only difference being that Miss Rosetta aired her grievances publicly , in season and out of season , while Charlotte was never heard to mention Rosetta 's name .
Even the death of Jacob Wheeler , five years after the marriage , had not healed the breach .
Miss Rosetta took out her curl-papers , packed her valise , and caught the late afternoon train for Charlottetown , as she had threatened .
All the way there she sat rigidly upright in her seat and held imaginary dialogues with Charlotte in her mind , running something like this on her part : -- `` No , Charlotte Wheeler , you are not going to have Jane 's baby , and you 're very much mistaken if you think so .
Oh , all right -- we 'll see !
You do n't know anything about babies , even if you are married .
I do .
Did n't I take William Ellis 's baby , when his wife died ?
Tell me that , Charlotte Wheeler !
And did n't the little thing thrive with me , and grow strong and healthy ?
Yes , even you have to admit that it did , Charlotte Wheeler .
And yet you have the presumption to think that you ought to have Jane 's baby !
Yes , it is presumption , Charlotte Wheeler .
And when William Ellis got married again , and took the baby , did n't the child cling to me and cry as if I was its real mother ?
You know it did , Charlotte Wheeler .
I 'm going to get and keep Jane 's baby in spite of you , Charlotte Wheeler , and I 'd like to see you try to prevent me -- you that went and got married and never so much as let your own sister know of it !
If I had got married in such a fashion , Charlotte Wheeler , I 'd be ashamed to look anybody in the face for the rest of my natural life ! ''
Miss Rosetta was so interested in thus laying down the law to Charlotte , and in planning out the future life of Jane 's baby , that she did n't find the journey to Charlottetown so long or tedious as might have been expected , considering her haste .
She soon found her way to the house where her cousin lived .
There , to her dismay and real sorrow , she learned that Mrs. Roberts had died at four o'clock that afternoon .
`` She seemed dreadful anxious to live until she heard from some of her folks out in Avonlea , '' said the woman who gave Miss Rosetta the information .
`` She had written to them about her little girl .
She was my sister-in-law , and she lived with me ever since her husband died .
I 've done my best for her ; but I 've a big family of my own and I ca n't see how I 'm to keep the child .
Poor Jane looked and longed for some one to come from Avonlea , but she could n't hold out .
A patient , suffering creature she was ! ''
`` I 'm her cousin , '' said Miss Rosetta , wiping her eyes , `` and I have come for the baby .
I 'll take it home with me after the funeral ; and , if you please , Mrs. Gordon , let me see it right away , so it can get accustomed to me .
Poor Jane !
I wish I could have got here in time to see her , she and I were such friends long ago .
We were far more intimate and confidential than ever her and Charlotte was .
Charlotte knows that , too ! ''
The vim with which Miss Rosetta snapped this out rather amazed Mrs. Gordon , who could n't understand it at all .
But she took Miss Rosetta upstairs to the room where the baby was sleeping .
`` Oh , the little darling , '' cried Miss Rosetta , all her old maidishness and oddity falling away from her like a garment , and all her innate and denied motherhood shining out in her face like a transforming illumination .
`` Oh , the sweet , dear , pretty little thing ! ''
The baby was a darling -- a six-months ' old beauty with little golden ringlets curling and glistening all over its tiny head .
As Miss Rosetta hung over it , it opened its eyes and then held out its tiny hands to her with a gurgle of confidence .
`` Oh , you sweetest ! ''
said Miss Rosetta rapturously , gathering it up in her arms .
`` You belong to me , darling -- never , never , to that under-handed Charlotte !
What is its name , Mrs. Gordon ? ''
`` It was n't named , '' said Mrs. Gordon .
`` Guess you 'll have to name it yourself , Miss Ellis . ''
`` Camilla Jane , '' said Miss Rosetta without a moment 's hesitation .
`` Jane after its mother , of course ; and I have always thought Camilla the prettiest name in the world .
Charlotte would be sure to give it some perfectly heathenish name .
I would n't put it past her calling the poor innocent Mehitable . ''
Miss Rosetta decided to stay in Charlottetown until after the funeral .
That night she lay with the baby on her arm , listening with joy to its soft little breathing .
She did not sleep or wish to sleep .
Her waking fancies were more alluring than any visions of dreamland .
Moreover , she gave a spice to them by occasionally snapping some vicious sentences out loud at Charlotte .
Miss Rosetta fully expected Charlotte along on the following morning and girded herself for the fray ; but no Charlotte appeared .
Night came ; no Charlotte .
Another morning and no Charlotte .
Miss Rosetta was hopelessly puzzled .
What had happened ?
Dear , dear , had Charlotte taken a bad heart spell , on hearing that she , Rosetta , had stolen a march on her to Charlottetown ?
It was quite likely .
You never knew what to expect of a woman who had married Jacob Wheeler !
The truth was , that the very evening Miss Rosetta had left Avonlea Mrs. Jacob Wheeler 's hired man had broken his leg and had had to be conveyed to his distant home on a feather bed in an express wagon .
Mrs. Wheeler could not leave home until she had obtained another hired man .
Consequently , it was the evening after the funeral when Mrs. Wheeler whisked up the steps of the Gordon house and met Miss Rosetta coming out with a big white bundle in her arms .
The eyes of the two women met defiantly .
Miss Rosetta 's face wore an air of triumph , chastened by a remembrance of the funeral that afternoon .
Mrs. Wheeler 's face , except for eyes , was as expressionless as it usually was .
Unlike the tall , fair , fat Miss Rosetta , Mrs. Wheeler was small and dark and thin , with an eager , careworn face .
`` How is Jane ? ''
she said abruptly , breaking the silence of ten years in saying it .
`` Jane is dead and buried , poor thing , '' said Miss Rosetta calmly .
`` I am taking her baby , little Camilla Jane , home with me . ''
`` The baby belongs to me , '' cried Mrs. Wheeler passionately .
`` Jane wrote to me about her .
Jane meant that I should have her .
I 've come for her . ''
`` You 'll go back without her then , '' said Miss Rosetta , serene in the possession that is nine points of the law .
`` The child is mine , and she is going to stay mine .
You can make up your mind to that , Charlotte Wheeler .
A woman who eloped to get married is n't fit to be trusted with a baby , anyhow .
Jacob Wheeler -- '' But Mrs. Wheeler had rushed past into the house .
Miss Rosetta composedly stepped into the cab and drove to the station .
She fairly bridled with triumph ; and underneath the triumph ran a queer undercurrent of satisfaction over the fact that Charlotte had spoken to her at last .
Miss Rosetta would not look at this satisfaction , or give it a name , but it was there .
Miss Rosetta arrived safely back in Avonlea with Camilla Jane and within ten hours everybody in the settlement knew the whole story , and every woman who could stand on her feet had been up to the Ellis cottage to see the baby .
Mrs. Wheeler arrived home twenty-four hours later , and silently betook herself to her farm .
When her Avonlea neighbors sympathized with her in her disappointment , she said nothing , but looked all the more darkly determined .
Also , a week later , Mr. William J. Blair , the Carmody storekeeper , had an odd tale to tell .
Mrs. Wheeler had come to the store and bought a lot of fine flannel and muslin and valenciennes .
Now , what in the name of time , did Mrs. Wheeler want with such stuff ?
Mr. William J. Blair could n't make head or tail of it , and it worried him .
Mr. Blair was so accustomed to know what everybody bought anything for that such a mystery quite upset him .
Miss Rosetta had exulted in the possession of little Camilla Jane for a month , and had been so happy that she had almost given up inveighing against Charlotte .
Her conversations , instead of tending always to Jacob Wheeler , now ran Camilla Janeward ; and this , folks thought , was an improvement .
One afternoon , Miss Rosetta , leaving Camilla Jane snugly sleeping in her cradle in the kitchen , had slipped down to the bottom of the garden to pick her currants .
The house was hidden from her sight by the copse of cherry trees , but she had left the kitchen window open , so that she could hear the baby if it awakened and cried .
Miss Rosetta sang happily as she picked her currants .
For the first time since Charlotte had married Jacob Wheeler Miss Rosetta felt really happy -- so happy that at there was no room in her heart for bitterness .
In fancy she looked forward to the coming years , and saw Camilla Jane growing up into girlhood , fair and lovable .
`` She 'll be a beauty , '' reflected Miss Rosetta complacently .
`` Jane was a handsome girl .
She shall always be dressed as nice as I can manage it , and I 'll get her an organ , and have her take painting and music lessons .
Parties , too !
I 'll give her a real coming-out party when she 's eighteen and the very prettiest dress that 's to be had .
Dear me , I can hardly wait for her to grow up , though she 's sweet enough now to make one wish she could stay a baby forever . ''
When Miss Rosetta returned to the kitchen , her eyes fell on an empty cradle .
Camilla Jane was gone !
Miss Rosetta promptly screamed .
She understood at a glance what had happened .
Six months ' old babies do not get out of their cradles and disappear through closed doors without any assistance .
`` Charlotte has been here , '' gasped Miss Rosetta .
`` Charlotte has stolen Camilla Jane !
I might have expected it .
I might have known when I heard that story about her buying muslin and flannel .
It 's just like Charlotte to do such an underhand trick .
But I 'll go after her !
I 'll show her !
She 'll find out she has got Rosetta Ellis to deal with and no Wheeler ! ''
Like a frantic creature and wholly forgetting that her hair was in curl-papers , Miss Rosetta hurried up the hill and down the shore road to the Wheeler Farm -- a place she had never visited in her life before .
The wind was off-shore and only broke the bay 's surface into long silvery ripples , and sent sheeny shadows flying out across it from every point and headland , like transparent wings .
The little gray house , so close to the purring waves that in storms their spray splashed over its very doorstep , seemed deserted .
Miss Rosetta pounded lustily on the front door .
This producing no result , she marched around to the back door and knocked .
No answer .
Miss Rosetta tried the door .
It was locked .
`` Guilty conscience , '' sniffed Miss Rosetta .
`` Well , I shall stay here until I see that perfidious Charlotte , if I have to camp in the yard all night . ''
Miss Rosetta was quite capable of doing this , but she was spared the necessity ; walking boldly up to the kitchen window , and peering through it , she felt her heart swell with anger as she beheld Charlotte sitting calmly by the table with Camilla Jane on her knee .
Beside her was a befrilled and bemuslined cradle , and on a chair lay the garments in which Miss Rosetta had dressed the baby .
It was clad in an entirely new outfit , and seemed quite at home with its new possessor .
It was laughing and cooing , and making little dabs at her with its dimpled hands .
`` Charlotte Wheeler , '' cried Miss Rosetta , rapping sharply on the window-pane .
`` I 've come for that child !
Bring her out to me at once -- at once , I say !
How dare you come to my house and steal a baby ?
You 're no better than a common burglar .
Give me Camilla Jane , I say ! ''
Charlotte came over to the window with the baby in her arms and triumph glittering in her eyes .
`` There is no such child as Camilla Jane here , '' she said .
`` This is Barbara Jane .
She belongs to me . ''
With that Mrs. Wheeler pulled down the shade .
Miss Rosetta had to go home .
There was nothing else for her to do .
On her way she met Mr. Patterson and told him in full the story of her wrongs .
It was all over Avonlea by night , and created quite a sensation .
Avonlea had not had such a toothsome bit of gossip for a long time .
Mrs. Wheeler exulted in the possession of Barbara Jane for six weeks , during which Miss Rosetta broke her heart with loneliness and longing , and meditated futile plots for the recovery of the baby .
It was hopeless to think of stealing it back or she would have tried to .
The hired man at the Wheeler place reported that Mrs. Wheeler never left it night or day for a single moment .
She even carried it with her when she went to milk the cows .
`` But my turn will come , '' said Miss Rosetta grimly .
`` Camilla Jane is mine , and if she was called Barbara for a century it would n't alter that fact !
Barbara , indeed !
Why not have called her Methusaleh and have done with it ? ''
One afternoon in October , when Miss Rosetta was picking her apples and thinking drearily about lost Camilla Jane , a woman came running breathlessly down the hill and into the yard .
Miss Rosetta gave an exclamation of amazement and dropped her basket of apples .
Of all incredible things !
The woman was Charlotte -- Charlotte who had never set foot on the grounds of the Ellis cottage since her marriage ten years ago , Charlotte , bare-headed , wild-eyed , distraught , wringing her hands and sobbing .
Miss Rosetta flew to meet her .
`` You 've scalded Camilla Jane to death ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` I always knew you would -- always expected it ! ''
`` Oh , for heaven 's sake , come quick , Rosetta ! ''
gasped Charlotte .
`` Barbara Jane is in convulsions and I do n't know what to do .
The hired man has gone for the doctor .
You were the nearest , so I came to you .
Jenny White was there when they came on , so I left her and ran .
Oh , Rosetta , come , come , if you have a spark of humanity in you !
You know what to do for convulsions -- you saved the Ellis baby when it had them .
Oh , come and save Barbara Jane ! ''
`` You mean Camilla Jane , I presume ? ''
said Miss Rosetta firmly , in spite of her agitation .
For a second Charlotte Wheeler hesitated .
Then she said passionately : `` Yes , yes , Camilla Jane -- any name you like !
Only come . ''
Miss Rosetta went , and not a moment too soon , either .
The doctor lived eight miles away and the baby was very bad .
The two women and Jenny White worked over her for hours .
It was not until dark , when the baby was sleeping soundly and the doctor had gone , after telling Miss Rosetta that she had saved the child 's life , that a realization of the situation came home to them .
`` Well , '' said Miss Rosetta , dropping into an armchair with a long sigh of weariness , `` I guess you 'll admit now , Charlotte Wheeler , that you are hardly a fit person to have charge of a baby , even if you had to go and steal it from me .
I should think your conscience would reproach you -- that is , if any woman who would marry Jacob Wheeler in such an underhanded fashion has a -- '' `` I -- I wanted the baby , '' sobbed Charlotte , tremulously .
`` I was so lonely here .
I did n't think it was any harm to take her , because Jane gave her to me in her letter .
But you have saved her life , Rosetta , and you -- you can have her back , although it will break my heart to give her up .
But , oh , Rosetta , wo n't you let me come and see her sometimes ?
I love her so I ca n't bear to give her up entirely . ''
`` Charlotte , '' said Miss Rosetta firmly , `` the most sensible thing for you to do is just to come back with the baby .
You are worried to death trying to run this farm with the debt Jacob Wheeler left on it for you .
Sell it , and come home with me .
And we 'll both have the baby then . ''
`` Oh , Rosetta , I 'd love to , '' faltered Charlotte .
`` I 've -- I 've wanted to be good friends with you again so much .
But I thought you were so hard and bitter you 'd never make up . ''
`` Maybe I 've talked too much , '' conceded Miss Rosetta , `` but you ought to know me well enough to know I did n't mean a word of it .
It was your never saying anything , no matter what I said , that riled me up so bad .
Let bygones be bygones , and come home , Charlotte . ''
`` I will , '' said Charlotte resolutely , wiping away her tears .
`` I 'm sick of living here and putting up with hired men .
I 'll be real glad to go home , Rosetta , and that 's the truth .
I 've had a hard enough time .
I s ` pose you 'll say I deserved it ; but I was fond of Jacob , and -- '' `` Of course , of course .
Why should n't you be ? ''
said Miss Rosetta briskly .
`` I 'm sure Jacob Wheeler was a good enough soul , if he was a little slack-twisted .
I 'd like to hear anybody say a word against him in my presence .
Look at that blessed child , Charlotte .
Is n't she the sweetest thing ?
I 'm desperate glad you are coming back home , Charlotte .
I 've never been able to put up a decent mess of mustard pickles since you went away , and you were always such a hand with them !
We 'll be real snug and cozy again -- you and me and little Camilla Barbara Jane . ''
V .
THE DREAM-CHILD A man 's heart -- aye , and a woman 's , too -- should be light in the spring .
The spirit of resurrection is abroad , calling the life of the world out of its wintry grave , knocking with radiant fingers at the gates of its tomb .
It stirs in human hearts , and makes them glad with the old primal gladness they felt in childhood .
It quickens human souls , and brings them , if so they will , so close to God that they may clasp hands with Him .
It is a time of wonder and renewed life , and a great outward and inward rapture , as of a young angel softly clapping his hands for creation 's joy .
At least , so it should be ; and so it always had been with me until the spring when the dream-child first came into our lives .
That year I hated the spring -- I , who had always loved it so .
As boy I had loved it , and as man .
All the happiness that had ever been mine , and it was much , had come to blossom in the springtime .
It was in the spring that Josephine and I had first loved each other , or , at least , had first come into the full knowledge that we loved .
I think that we must have loved each other all our lives , and that each succeeding spring was a word in the revelation of that love , not to be understood until , in the fullness of time , the whole sentence was written out in that most beautiful of all beautiful springs .
How beautiful it was !
And how beautiful she was !
I suppose every lover thinks that of his lass ; otherwise he is a poor sort of lover .
But it was not only my eyes of love that made my dear lovely .
She was slim and lithe as a young , white-stemmed birch tree ; her hair was like a soft , dusky cloud ; and her eyes were as blue as Avonlea harbor on a fair twilight , when all the sky is abloom over it .
She had dark lashes , and a little red mouth that quivered when she was very sad or very happy , or when she loved very much -- quivered like a crimson rose too rudely shaken by the wind .
At such times what was a man to do save kiss it ?
The next spring we were married , and I brought her home to my gray old homestead on the gray old harbor shore .
A lonely place for a young bride , said Avonlea people .
Nay , it was not so .
She was happy here , even in my absences .
She loved the great , restless harbor and the vast , misty sea beyond ; she loved the tides , keeping their world-old tryst with the shore , and the gulls , and the croon of the waves , and the call of the winds in the fir woods at noon and even ; she loved the moonrises and the sunsets , and the clear , calm nights when the stars seemed to have fallen into the water and to be a little dizzy from such a fall .
She loved these things , even as I did .
No , she was never lonely here then .
The third spring came , and our boy was born .
We thought we had been happy before ; now we knew that we had only dreamed a pleasant dream of happiness , and had awakened to this exquisite reality .
We thought we had loved each other before ; now , as I looked into my wife 's pale face , blanched with its baptism of pain , and met the uplifted gaze of her blue eyes , aglow with the holy passion of motherhood , I knew we had only imagined what love might be .
The imagination had been sweet , as the thought of the rose is sweet before the bud is open ; but as the rose to the thought , so was love to the imagination of it .
`` All my thoughts are poetry since baby came , '' my wife said once , rapturously .
Our boy lived for twenty months .
He was a sturdy , toddling rogue , so full of life and laughter and mischief that , when he died , one day , after the illness of an hour , it seemed a most absurd thing that he should be dead -- a thing I could have laughed at , until belief forced itself into my soul like a burning , searing iron .
I think I grieved over my little son 's death as deeply and sincerely as ever man did , or could .
But the heart of the father is not as the heart of the mother .
Time brought no healing to Josephine ; she fretted and pined ; her cheeks lost their pretty oval , and her red mouth grew pale and drooping .
I hoped that spring might work its miracle upon her .
When the buds swelled , and the old earth grew green in the sun , and the gulls came back to the gray harbor , whose very grayness grew golden and mellow , I thought I should see her smile again .
But , when the spring came , came the dream-child , and the fear that was to be my companion , at bed and board , from sunsetting to sunsetting .
One night I awakened from sleep , realizing in the moment of awakening that I was alone .
I listened to hear whether my wife were moving about the house .
I heard nothing but the little splash of waves on the shore below and the low moan of the distant ocean .
I rose and searched the house .
She was not in it .
I did not know where to seek her ; but , at a venture , I started along the shore .
It was pale , fainting moonlight .
The harbor looked like a phantom harbor , and the night was as still and cold and calm as the face of a dead man .
At last I saw my wife coming to me along the shore .
When I saw her , I knew what I had feared and how great my fear had been .
As she drew near , I saw that she had been crying ; her face was stained with tears , and her dark hair hung loose over her shoulders in little , glossy ringlets like a child 's .
She seemed to be very tired , and at intervals she wrung her small hands together .
She showed no surprise when she met me , but only held out her hands to me as if glad to see me .
`` I followed him -- but I could not overtake him , '' she said with a sob .
`` I did my best -- I hurried so ; but he was always a little way ahead .
And then I lost him -- and so I came back .
But I did my best -- indeed I did .
And oh , I am so tired ! ''
`` Josie , dearest , what do you mean , and where have you been ? ''
I said , drawing her close to me .
`` Why did you go out so -- alone in the night ? ''
She looked at me wonderingly .
`` How could I help it , David ?
He called me .
I had to go . ''
`` WHO called you ? ''
`` The child , '' she answered in a whisper .
`` Our child , David -- our pretty boy .
I awakened in the darkness and heard him calling to me down on the shore .
Such a sad , little wailing cry , David , as if he were cold and lonely and wanted his mother .
I hurried out to him , but I could not find him .
I could only hear the call , and I followed it on and on , far down the shore .
Oh , I tried so hard to overtake it , but I could not .
Once I saw a little white hand beckoning to me far ahead in the moonlight .
But still I could not go fast enough .
And then the cry ceased , and I was there all alone on that terrible , cold , gray shore .
I was so tired and I came home .
But I wish I could have found him .
Perhaps he does not know that I tried to .
Perhaps he thinks his mother never listened to his call .
Oh , I would not have him think that . ''
`` You have had a bad dream , dear , '' I said .
I tried to say it naturally ; but it is hard for a man to speak naturally when he feels a mortal dread striking into his very vitals with its deadly chill .
`` It was no dream , '' she answered reproachfully .
`` I tell you I heard him calling me -- me , his mother .
What could I do but go to him ?
You can not understand -- you are only his father .
It was not you who gave him birth .
It was not you who paid the price of his dear life in pain .
He would not call to you -- he wanted his mother . ''
I got her back to the house and to her bed , whither she went obediently enough , and soon fell into the sleep of exhaustion .
But there was no more sleep for me that night .
I kept a grim vigil with dread .
When I had married Josephine , one of those officious relatives that are apt to buzz about a man 's marriage told me that her grandmother had been insane all the latter part of her life .
She had grieved over the death of a favorite child until she lost her mind , and , as the first indication of it , she had sought by nights a white dream-child which always called her , so she said , and led her afar with a little , pale , beckoning hand .
I had smiled at the story then .
What had that grim old bygone to do with springtime and love and Josephine ?
But it came back to me now , hand in hand with my fear .
Was this fate coming on my dear wife ?
It was too horrible for belief .
She was so young , so fair , so sweet , this girl-wife of mine .
It had been only a bad dream , with a frightened , bewildered waking .
So I tried to comfort myself .
When she awakened in the morning she did not speak of what had happened and I did not dare to .
She seemed more cheerful that day than she had been , and went about her household duties briskly and skillfully .
My fear lifted .
I was sure now that she had only dreamed .
And I was confirmed in my hopeful belief when two nights had passed away uneventfully .
Then , on the third night , he dream-child called to her again .
I wakened from a troubled doze to find her dressing herself with feverish haste .
`` He is calling me , '' she cried .
`` Oh , do n't you hear him ?
Ca n't you hear him ?
Listen -- listen -- the little , lonely cry !
Yes , yes , my precious , mother is coming .
Wait for me .
Mother is coming to her pretty boy ! ''
I caught her hand and let her lead me where she would .
Hand in hand we followed the dream-child down the harbor shore in that ghostly , clouded moonlight .
Ever , she said , the little cry sounded before her .
She entreated the dream-child to wait for her ; she cried and implored and uttered tender mother-talk .
But , at last , she ceased to hear the cry ; and then , weeping , wearied , she let me lead her home again .
What a horror brooded over that spring -- that so beautiful spring !
It was a time of wonder and marvel ; of the soft touch of silver rain on greening fields ; of the incredible delicacy of young leaves ; of blossom on the land and blossom in the sunset .
The whole world bloomed in a flush and tremor of maiden loveliness , instinct with all the evasive , fleeting charm of spring and girlhood and young morning .
And almost every night of this wonderful time the dream-child called his mother , and we roved the gray shore in quest of him .
In the day she was herself ; but , when the night fell , she was restless and uneasy until she heard the call .
Then follow it she would , even through storm and darkness .
It was then , she said , that the cry sounded loudest and nearest , as if her pretty boy were frightened by the tempest .
What wild , terrible rovings we had , she straining forward , eager to overtake the dream-child ; I , sick at heart , following , guiding , protecting , as best I could ; then afterwards leading her gently home , heart-broken because she could not reach the child .
I bore my burden in secret , determining that gossip should not busy itself with my wife 's condition so long as I could keep it from becoming known .
We had no near relatives -- none with any right to share any trouble -- and whoso accepteth human love must bind it to his soul with pain .
I thought , however , that I should have medical advice , and I took our old doctor into my confidence .
He looked grave when he heard my story .
I did not like his expression nor his few guarded remarks .
He said he thought human aid would avail little ; she might come all right in time ; humor her , as far as possible , watch over her , protect her .
He needed not to tell me THAT .
The spring went out and summer came in -- and the horror deepened and darkened .
I knew that suspicions were being whispered from lip to lip .
We had been seen on our nightly quests .
Men and women began to look at us pityingly when we went abroad .
One day , on a dull , drowsy afternoon , the dream-child called .
I knew then that the end was near ; the end had been near in the old grandmother 's case sixty years before when the dream-child called in the day .
The doctor looked graver than ever when I told him , and said that the time had come when I must have help in my task .
I could not watch by day and night .
Unless I had assistance I would break down .
I did not think that I should .
Love is stronger than that .
And on one thing I was determined -- they should never take my wife from me .
No restraint sterner than a husband 's loving hand should ever be put upon her , my pretty , piteous darling .
I never spoke of the dream-child to her .
The doctor advised against it .
It would , he said , only serve to deepen the delusion .
When he hinted at an asylum I gave him a look that would have been a fierce word for another man .
He never spoke of it again .
One night in August there was a dull , murky sunset after a dead , breathless day of heat , with not a wind stirring .
The sea was not blue as a sea should be , but pink -- all pink -- a ghastly , staring , painted pink .
I lingered on the harbor shore below the house until dark .
The evening bells were ringing faintly and mournfully in a church across the harbor .
Behind me , in the kitchen , I heard my wife singing .
Sometimes now her spirits were fitfully high , and then she would sing the old songs of her girlhood .
But even in her singing was something strange , as if a wailing , unearthly cry rang through it .
Nothing about her was sadder than that strange singing .
When I went back to the house the rain was beginning to fall ; but there was no wind or sound in the air -- only that dismal stillness , as if the world were holding its breath in expectation of a calamity .
Josie was standing by the window , looking out and listening .
I tried to induce her to go to bed , but she only shook her head .
`` I might fall asleep and not hear him when he called , '' she said .
`` I am always afraid to sleep now , for fear he should call and his mother fail to hear him . ''
Knowing it was of no use to entreat , I sat down by the table and tried to read .
Three hours passed on .
When the clock struck midnight she started up , with the wild light in her sunken blue eyes .
`` He is calling , '' she cried , `` calling out there in the storm .
Yes , yes , sweet , I am coming ! ''
She opened the door and fled down the path to the shore .
I snatched a lantern from the wall , lighted it , and followed .
It was the blackest night I was ever out in , dark with the very darkness of death .
The rain fell thickly and heavily .
I overtook Josie , caught her hand , and stumbled along in her wake , for she went with the speed and recklessness of a distraught woman .
We moved in the little flitting circle of light shed by the lantern .
All around us and above us was a horrible , voiceless darkness , held , as it were , at bay by the friendly light .
`` If I could only overtake him once , '' moaned Josie .
`` If I could just kiss him once , and hold him close against my aching heart .
This pain , that never leaves me , would leave me than .
Oh , my pretty boy , wait for mother !
I am coming to you .
Listen , David ; he cries -- he cries so pitifully ; listen !
Ca n't you hear it ? ''
I DID hear it !
Clear and distinct , out of the deadly still darkness before us , came a faint , wailing cry .
What was it ?
Was I , too , going mad , or WAS there something out there -- something that cried and moaned -- longing for human love , yet ever retreating from human footsteps ?
I am not a superstitious man ; but my nerve had been shaken by my long trial , and I was weaker than I thought .
Terror took possession of me -- terror unnameable .
I trembled in every limb ; clammy perspiration oozed from my forehead ; I was possessed by a wild impulse to turn and flee -- anywhere , away from that unearthly cry .
But Josephine 's cold hand gripped mine firmly , and led me on .
That strange cry still rang in my ears .
But it did not recede ; it sounded clearer and stronger ; it was a wail ; but a loud , insistent wail ; it was nearer -- nearer ; it was in the darkness just beyond us .
Then we came to it ; a little dory had been beached on the pebbles and left there by the receding tide .
There was a child in it -- a boy , of perhaps two years old , who crouched in the bottom of the dory in water to his waist , his big , blue eyes wild and wide with terror , his face white and tear-stained .
He wailed again when he saw us , and held out his little hands .
My horror fell away from me like a discarded garment .
THIS child was living .
How he had come there , whence and why , I did not know and , in my state of mind , did not question .
It was no cry of parted spirit I had heard -- that was enough for me .
`` Oh , the poor darling ! ''
cried my wife .
She stooped over the dory and lifted the baby in her arms .
His long , fair curls fell on her shoulder ; she laid her face against his and wrapped her shawl around him .
`` Let me carry him , dear , '' I said .
`` He is very wet , and too heavy for you . ''
`` No , no , I must carry him .
My arms have been so empty -- they are full now .
Oh , David , the pain at my heart has gone .
He has come to me to take the place of my own .
God has sent him to me out of the sea .
He is wet and cold and tired .
Hush , sweet one , we will go home . ''
Silently I followed her home .
The wind was rising , coming in sudden , angry gusts ; the storm was at hand , but we reached shelter before it broke .
Just as I shut our door behind us it smote the house with the roar of a baffled beast .
I thanked God that we were not out in it , following the dream-child .
`` You are very wet , Josie , '' I said .
`` Go and put on dry clothes at once . ''
`` The child must be looked to first , '' she said firmly .
`` See how chilled and exhausted he is , the pretty dear .
Light a fire quickly , David , while I get dry things for him . ''
I let her have her way .
She brought out the clothes our own child had worn and dressed the waif in them , rubbing his chilled limbs , brushing his wet hair , laughing over him , mothering him .
She seemed like her old self .
For my own part , I was bewildered .
All the questions I had not asked before came crowding to my mind how .
Whose child was this ?
Whence had he come ?
What was the meaning of it all ?
He was a pretty baby , fair and plump and rosy .
When he was dried and fed , he fell asleep in Josie 's arms .
She hung over him in a passion of delight .
It was with difficulty I persuaded her to leave him long enough to change her wet clothes .
She never asked whose he might be or from where he might have come .
He had been sent to her from the sea ; the dream-child had led her to him ; that was what she believed , and I dared not throw any doubt on that belief .
She slept that night with the baby on her arm , and in her sleep her face was the face of a girl in her youth , untroubled and unworn .
I expected that the morrow would bring some one seeking the baby .
I had come to the conclusion that he must belong to the `` Cove '' across the harbor , where the fishing hamlet was ; and all day , while Josie laughed and played with him , I waited and listened for the footsteps of those who would come seeking him .
But they did not come .
Day after day passed , and still they did not come .
I was in a maze of perplexity .
What should I do ?
I shrank from the thought of the boy being taken away from us .
Since we had found him the dream-child had never called .
My wife seemed to have turned back from the dark borderland , where her feet had strayed to walk again with me in our own homely paths .
Day and night she was her old , bright self , happy and serene in the new motherhood that had come to her .
The only thing strange in her was her calm acceptance of the event .
She never wondered who or whose the child might be -- never seemed to fear that he would be taken from her ; and she gave him our dream-child 's name .
At last , when a full week had passed , I went , in my bewilderment , to our old doctor .
`` A most extraordinary thing , '' he said thoughtfully .
`` The child , as you say , must belong to the Spruce Cove people .
Yet it is an almost unbelievable thing that there has been no search or inquiry after him .
Probably there is some simple explanation of the mystery , however .
I advise you to go over to the Cove and inquire .
When you find the parents or guardians of the child , ask them to allow you to keep it for a time .
It may prove your wife 's salvation .
I have known such cases .
Evidently on that night the crisis of her mental disorder was reached .
A little thing might have sufficed to turn her feet either way -- back to reason and sanity , or into deeper darkness .
It is my belief that the former has occurred , and that , if she is left in undisturbed possession of this child for a time , she will recover completely . ''
I drove around the harbor that day with a lighter heart than I had hoped ever to possess again .
When I reached Spruce Cove the first person I met was old Abel Blair .
I asked him if any child were missing from the Cove or along shore .
He looked at me in surprise , shook his head , and said he had not heard of any .
I told him as much of the tale as was necessary , leaving him to think that my wife and I had found the dory and its small passenger during an ordinary walk along the shore .
`` A green dory ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Ben Forbes ' old green dory has been missing for a week , but it was so rotten and leaky he did n't bother looking for it .
But this child , sir -- it beats me .
What might he be like ? ''
I described the child as closely as possible .
`` That fits little Harry Martin to a hair , '' said old Abel , perplexedly , `` but , sir , it ca n't be .
Or , if it is , there 's been foul work somewhere .
James Martin 's wife died last winter , sir , and he died the next month .
They left a baby and not much else .
There were n't nobody to take the child but Jim 's half-sister , Maggie Fleming .
She lived here at the Cove , and , I 'm sorry to say , sir , she had n't too good a name .
She did n't want to be bothered with the baby , and folks say she neglected him scandalous .
Well , last spring she begun talking of going away to the States .
She said a friend of hers had got her a good place in Boston , and she was going to go and take little Harry .
We supposed it was all right .
Last Saturday she went , sir .
She was going to walk to the station , and the last seen of her she was trudging along the road , carrying the baby .
It has n't been thought of since .
But , sir , d'ye suppose she set that innocent child adrift in that old leaky dory to send him to his death ?
I knew Maggie was no better than she should be , but I ca n't believe she was as bad as that . ''
`` You must come over with me and see if you can identify the child , '' I said .
`` If he is Harry Martin I shall keep him .
My wife has been very lonely since our baby died , and she has taken a fancy to this little chap . ''
When we reached my home old Abel recognized the child as Harry Martin .
He is with us still .
His baby hands led my dear wife back to health and happiness .
Other children have come to us , she loves them all dearly ; but the boy who bears her dead son 's name is to her -- aye , and to me -- as dear as if she had given him birth .
He came from the sea , and at his coming the ghostly dream-child fled , nevermore to lure my wife away from me with its exciting cry .
Therefore I look upon him and love him as my first-born .
VI .
THE BROTHER WHO FAILED The Monroe family were holding a Christmas reunion at the old Prince Edward Island homestead at White Sands .
It was the first time they had all been together under one roof since the death of their mother , thirty years before .
The idea of this Christmas reunion had originated with Edith Monroe the preceding spring , during her tedious convalescence from a bad attack of pneumonia among strangers in an American city , where she had not been able to fill her concert engagements , and had more spare time in which to feel the tug of old ties and the homesick longing for her own people than she had had for years .
As a result , when she recovered , she wrote to her second brother , James Monroe , who lived on the homestead ; and the consequence was this gathering of the Monroes under the old roof-tree .
Ralph Monroe for once laid aside the cares of his railroads , and the deceitfulness of his millions , in Toronto and took the long-promised , long-deferred trip to the homeland .
Malcolm Monroe journeyed from the far western university of which he was president .
Edith came , flushed with the triumph of her latest and most successful concert tour .
Mrs. Woodburn , who had been Margaret Monroe , came from the Nova Scotia town where she lived a busy , happy life as the wife of a rising young lawyer .
James , prosperous and hearty , greeted them warmly at the old homestead whose fertile acres had well repaid his skillful management .
They were a merry party , casting aside their cares and years , and harking back to joyous boyhood and girlhood once more .
James had a family of rosy lads and lasses ; Margaret brought her two blue-eyed little girls ; Ralph 's dark , clever-looking son accompanied him , and Malcolm brought his , a young man with a resolute face , in which there was less of boyishness than in his father 's , and the eyes of a keen , perhaps a hard bargainer .
The two cousins were the same age to a day , and it was a family joke among the Monroes that the stork must have mixed the babies , since Ralph 's son was like Malcolm in face and brain , while Malcolm 's boy was a second edition of his uncle Ralph .
To crown all , Aunt Isabel came , too -- a talkative , clever , shrewd old lady , as young at eighty-five as she had been at thirty , thinking the Monroe stock the best in the world , and beamingly proud of her nephews and nieces , who had gone out from this humble , little farm to destinies of such brilliance and influence in the world beyond .
I have forgotten Robert .
Robert Monroe was apt to be forgotten .
Although he was the oldest of the family , White Sands people , in naming over the various members of the Monroe family , would add , `` and Robert , '' in a tone of surprise over the remembrance of his existence .
He lived on a poor , sandy little farm down by the shore , but he had come up to James ' place on the evening when the guests arrived ; they had all greeted him warmly and joyously , and then did not think about him again in their laughter and conversation .
Robert sat back in a corner and listened with a smile , but he never spoke .
Afterwards he had slipped noiselessly away and gone home , and nobody noticed his going .
They were all gayly busy recalling what had happened in the old times and telling what had happened in the new .
Edith recounted the successes of her concert tours ; Malcolm expatiated proudly on his plans for developing his beloved college ; Ralph described the country through which his new railroad ran , and the difficulties he had had to overcome in connection with it .
James , aside , discussed his orchard and his crops with Margaret , who had not been long enough away from the farm to lose touch with its interests .
Aunt Isabel knitted and smiled complacently on all , talking now with one , now with the other , secretly quite proud of herself that she , an old woman of eighty-five , who had seldom been out of White Sands in her life , could discuss high finance with Ralph , and higher education with Malcolm , and hold her own with James in an argument on drainage .
The White Sands school teacher , an arch-eyed , red-mouthed bit a girl -- a Bell from Avonlea -- who boarded with the James Monroes , amused herself with the boys .
All were enjoying themselves hugely , so it is not to be wondered at that they did not miss Robert , who had gone home early because his old housekeeper was nervous if left alone at night .
He came again the next afternoon .
From James , in the barnyard , he learned that Malcolm and Ralph had driven to the harbor , that Margaret and Mrs. James had gone to call on friends in Avonlea , and that Edith was walking somewhere in the woods on the hill .
There was nobody in the house except Aunt Isabel and the teacher .
`` You 'd better wait and stay the evening , '' said James , indifferently .
`` They 'll all be back soon . ''
Robert went across the yard and sat down on the rustic bench in the angle of the front porch .
It was a fine December evening , as mild as autumn ; there had been no snow , and the long fields , sloping down from the homestead , were brown and mellow .
A weird , dreamy stillness had fallen upon the purple earth , the windless woods , the rain of the valleys , the sere meadows .
Nature seemed to have folded satisfied hands to rest , knowing that her long , wintry slumber was coming upon her .
Out to sea , a dull , red sunset faded out into somber clouds , and the ceaseless voice of many waters came up from the tawny shore .
Robert rested his chin on his hand and looked across the vales and hills , where the feathery gray of leafless hardwoods was mingled with the sturdy , unfailing green of the conebearers .
He was a tall , bent man , with thin , gray hair , a lined face , and deeply-set , gentle brown eyes -- the eyes of one who , looking through pain , sees rapture beyond .
He felt very happy .
He loved his family clannishly , and he was rejoiced that they were all again near to him .
He was proud of their success and fame .
He was glad that James had prospered so well of late years .
There was no canker of envy or discontent in his soul .
He heard absently indistinct voices at the open hall window above the porch , where Aunt Isabel was talking to Kathleen Bell .
Presently Aunt Isabel moved nearer to the window , and her words came down to Robert with startling clearness .
`` Yes , I can assure you , Miss Bell , that I 'm real proud of my nephews and nieces .
They 're a smart family .
They 've almost all done well , and they had n't any of them much to begin with .
Ralph had absolutely nothing and to-day he is a millionaire .
Their father met with so many losses , what with his ill-health and the bank failing , that he could n't help them any .
But they 've all succeeded , except poor Robert -- and I must admit that he 's a total failure . ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' said the little teacher deprecatingly .
`` A total failure ! ''
Aunt Isabel repeated her words emphatically .
She was not going to be contradicted by anybody , least of all a Bell from Avonlea .
`` He has been a failure since the time he was born .
He is the first Monroe to disgrace the old stock that way .
I 'm sure his brothers and sisters must be dreadfully ashamed of him .
He has lived sixty years and he has n't done a thing worth while .
He ca n't even make his farm pay .
If he 's kept out of debt it 's as much as he 's ever managed to do . ''
`` Some men ca n't even do that , '' murmured the little school teacher .
She was really so much in awe of this imperious , clever old Aunt Isabel that it was positive heroism on her part to venture even this faint protest .
`` More is expected of a Monroe , '' said Aunt Isabel majestically .
`` Robert Monroe is a failure , and that is the only name for him . ''
Robert Monroe stood up below the window in a dizzy , uncertain fashion .
Aunt Isabel had been speaking of him !
He , Robert , was a failure , a disgrace to his blood , of whom his nearest and dearest were ashamed !
Yes , it was true ; he had never realized it before ; he had known that he could never win power or accumulate riches , but he had not thought that mattered much .
Now , through Aunt Isabel 's scornful eyes , he saw himself as the world saw him -- as his brothers and sisters must see him .
THERE lay the sting .
What the world thought of him did not matter ; but that his own should think him a failure and disgrace was agony .
He moaned as he started to walk across the yard , only anxious to hide his pain and shame away from all human sight , and in his eyes was the look of a gentle animal which had been stricken by a cruel and unexpected blow .
Edith Monroe , who , unaware of Robert 's proximity , had been standing on the other side of the porch , saw that look , as he hurried past her , unseeing .
A moment before her dark eyes had been flashing with anger at Aunt Isabel 's words ; now the anger was drowned in a sudden rush of tears .
She took a quick step after Robert , but checked the impulse .
Not then -- and not by her alone -- could that deadly hurt be healed .
Nay , more , Robert must never suspect that she knew of any hurt .
She stood and watched him through her tears as he went away across the low-lying shore fields to hide his broken heart under his own humble roof .
She yearned to hurry after him and comfort him , but she knew that comfort was not what Robert needed now .
Justice , and justice only , could pluck out the sting , which otherwise must rankle to the death .
Ralph and Malcolm were driving into the yard .
Edith went over to them .
`` Boys , '' she said resolutely , `` I want to have a talk with you . ''
The Christmas dinner at the old homestead was a merry one .
Mrs. James spread a feast that was fit for the halls of Lucullus .
Laughter , jest , and repartee flew from lip to lip .
Nobody appeared to notice that Robert ate little , said nothing , and sat with his form shrinking in his shabby `` best '' suit , his gray head bent even lower than usual , as if desirous of avoiding all observation .
When the others spoke to him he answered deprecatingly , and shrank still further into himself .
Finally all had eaten all they could , and the remainder of the plum pudding was carried out .
Robert gave a low sigh of relief .
It was almost over .
Soon he would be able to escape and hide himself and his shame away from the mirthful eyes of these men and women who had earned the right to laugh at the world in which their success gave them power and influence .
He -- he -- only -- was a failure .
He wondered impatiently why Mrs. James did not rise .
Mrs. James merely leaned comfortably back in her chair , with the righteous expression of one who has done her duty by her fellow creatures ' palates , and looked at Malcolm .
Malcolm rose in his place .
Silence fell on the company ; everybody looked suddenly alert and expectant , except Robert .
He still sat with bowed head , wrapped in his own bitterness .
`` I have been told that I must lead off , '' said Malcolm , `` because I am supposed to possess the gift of gab .
But , if I do , I am not going to use it for any rhetorical effect to-day .
Simple , earnest words must express the deepest feelings of the heart in doing justice to its own .
Brothers and sisters , we meet to-day under our own roof-tree , surrounded by the benedictions of the past years .
Perhaps invisible guests are here -- the spirits of those who founded this home and whose work on earth has long been finished .
It is not amiss to hope that this is so and our family circle made indeed complete .
To each one of us who are here in visible bodily presence some measure of success has fallen ; but only one of us has been supremely successful in the only things that really count -- the things that count for eternity as well as time -- sympathy and unselfishness and self-sacrifice .
`` I shall tell you my own story for the benefit of those who have not heard it .
When I was a lad of sixteen I started to work out my own education .
Some of you will remember that old Mr. Blair of Avonlea offered me a place in his store for the summer , at wages which would go far towards paying my expenses at the country academy the next winter .
I went to work , eager and hopeful .
All summer I tried to do my faithful best for my employer .
In September the blow fell .
A sum of money was missing from Mr. Blair 's till .
I was suspected and discharged in disgrace .
All my neighbors believed me guilty ; even some of my own family looked upon me with suspicion -- nor could I blame them , for the circumstantial evidence was strongly against me . ''
Ralph and James looked ashamed ; Edith and Margaret , who had not been born at the time referred to , lifted their faces innocently .
Robert did not move or glance up .
He hardly seemed to be listening .
`` I was crushed in an agony of shame and despair , '' continued Malcolm .
`` I believed my career was ruined .
I was bent on casting all my ambitions behind me , and going west to some place where nobody knew me or my disgrace .
But there was one person who believed in my innocence , who said to me , ` You shall not give up -- you shall not behave as if you were guilty .
You are innocent , and in time your innocence will be proved .
Meanwhile show yourself a man .
You have nearly enough to pay your way next winter at the Academy .
I have a little I can give to help you out .
Do n't give in -- never give in when you have done no wrong . '
`` I listened and took his advice .
I went to the Academy .
My story was there as soon as I was , and I found myself sneered at and shunned .
Many a time I would have given up in despair , had it not been for the encouragement of my counselor .
He furnished the backbone for me .
I was determined that his belief in me should be justified .
I studied hard and came out at the head of my class .
Then there seemed to be no chance of my earning any more money that summer .
But a farmer at Newbridge , who cared nothing about the character of his help , if he could get the work out of them , offered to hire me .
The prospect was distasteful but , urged by the man who believed in me , I took the place and endured the hardships .
Another winter of lonely work passed at the Academy .
I won the Farrell Scholarship the last year it was offered , and that meant an Arts course for me .
I went to Redmond College .
My story was not openly known there , but something of it got abroad , enough to taint my life there also with its suspicion .
But the year I graduated , Mr. Blair 's nephew , who , as you know , was the real culprit , confessed his guilt , and I was cleared before the world .
Since then my career has been what is called a brilliant one .
But '' -- Malcolm turned and laid his hand on Robert 's thin shoulder -- `` all of my success I owe to my brother Robert .
It is his success -- not mine -- and here to-day , since we have agreed to say what is too often left to be said over a coffin lid , I thank him for all he did for me , and tell him that there is nothing I am more proud of and thankful for than such a brother . ''
Robert had looked up at last , amazed , bewildered , incredulous .
His face crimsoned as Malcolm sat down .
But now Ralph was getting up .
`` I am no orator as Malcolm is , '' he quoted gayly , `` but I 've got a story to tell , too , which only one of you knows .
Forty years ago , when I started in life as a business man , money was n't so plentiful with me as it may be to-day .
And I needed it badly .
A chance came my way to make a pile of it .
It was n't a clean chance .
It was a dirty chance .
It looked square on the surface ; but , underneath , it meant trickery and roguery .
I had n't enough perception to see that , though -- I was fool enough to think it was all right .
I told Robert what I meant to do .
And Robert saw clear through the outward sham to the real , hideous thing underneath .
He showed me what it meant and he gave me a preachment about a few Monroe Traditions of truth and honor .
I saw what I had been about to do as he saw it -- as all good men and true must see it .
And I vowed then and there that I 'd never go into anything that I was n't sure was fair and square and clean through and through .
I 've kept that vow .
I am a rich man , and not a dollar of my money is ` tainted ' money .
But I did n't make it .
Robert really made every cent of my money .
If it had n't been for him I 'd have been a poor man to-day , or behind prison bars , as are the other men who went into that deal when I backed out .
I 've got a son here .
I hope he 'll be as clever as his Uncle Malcolm ; but I hope , still more earnestly , that he 'll be as good and honorable a man as his Uncle Robert . ''
By this time Robert 's head was bent again , and his face buried in his hands .
`` My turn next , '' said James .
`` I have n't much to say -- only this .
After mother died I took typhoid fever .
Here I was with no one to wait on me .
Robert came and nursed me .
He was the most faithful , tender , gentle nurse ever a man had .
The doctor said Robert saved my life .
I do n't suppose any of the rest of us here can say we have saved a life . ''
Edith wiped away her tears and sprang up impulsively .
`` Years ago , '' she said , `` there was a poor , ambitious girl who had a voice .
She wanted a musical education and her only apparent chance of obtaining it was to get a teacher 's certificate and earn money enough to have her voice trained .
She studied hard , but her brains , in mathematics at least , were n't as good as her voice , and the time was short .
She failed .
She was lost in disappointment and despair , for that was the last year in which it was possible to obtain a teacher 's certificate without attending Queen 's Academy , and she could not afford that .
Then her oldest brother came to her and told her he could spare enough money to send her to the conservatory of music in Halifax for a year .
He made her take it .
She never knew till long afterwards that he had sold the beautiful horse which he loved like a human creature , to get the money .
She went to the Halifax conservatory .
She won a musical scholarship .
She has had a happy life and a successful career .
And she owes it all to her brother Robert -- '' But Edith could go no further .
Her voice failed her and she sat down in tears .
Margaret did not try to stand up .
`` I was only five when my mother died , '' she sobbed .
`` Robert was both father and mother to me .
Never had child or girl so wise and loving a guardian as he was to me .
I have never forgotten the lessons he taught me .
Whatever there is of good in my life or character I owe to him .
I was often headstrong and willful , but he never lost patience with me .
I owe everything to Robert . ''
Suddenly the little teacher rose with wet eyes and crimson cheeks .
`` I have something to say , too , '' she said resolutely .
`` You have spoken for yourselves .
I speak for the people of White Sands .
There is a man in this settlement whom everybody loves .
I shall tell you some of the things he has done . ''
`` Last fall , in an October storm , the harbor lighthouse flew a flag of distress .
Only one man was brave enough to face the danger of sailing to the lighthouse to find out what the trouble was .
That was Robert Monroe .
He found the keeper alone with a broken leg ; and he sailed back and made -- yes , MADE the unwilling and terrified doctor go with him to the lighthouse .
I saw him when he told the doctor he must go ; and I tell you that no man living could have set his will against Robert Monroe 's at that moment .
`` Four years ago old Sarah Cooper was to be taken to the poorhouse .
She was broken-hearted .
One man took the poor , bed-ridden , fretful old creature into his home , paid for medical attendance , and waited on her himself , when his housekeeper could n't endure her tantrums and temper .
Sarah Cooper died two years afterwards , and her latest breath was a benediction on Robert Monroe -- the best man God ever made .
`` Eight years ago Jack Blewitt wanted a place .
Nobody would hire him , because his father was in the penitentiary , and some people thought Jack ought to be there , too .
Robert Monroe hired him -- and helped him , and kept him straight , and got him started right -- and Jack Blewitt is a hard-working , respected young man to-day , with every prospect of a useful and honorable life .
There is hardly a man , woman , or child in White Sands who does n't owe something to Robert Monroe ! ''
As Kathleen Bell sat down , Malcolm sprang up and held out his hands .
`` Every one of us stand up and sing Auld Lang Syne , '' he cried .
Everybody stood up and joined hands , but one did not sing .
Robert Monroe stood erect , with a great radiance on his face and in his eyes .
His reproach had been taken away ; he was crowned among his kindred with the beauty and blessing of sacred yesterdays .
When the singing ceased Malcolm 's stern-faced son reached over and shook Robert 's hands .
`` Uncle Rob , '' he said heartily , `` I hope that when I 'm sixty I 'll be as successful a man as you . ''
`` I guess , '' said Aunt Isabel , aside to the little school teacher , as she wiped the tears from her keen old eyes , `` that there 's a kind of failure that 's the best success . ''
VII .
THE RETURN OF HESTER Just at dusk , that evening , I had gone upstairs and put on my muslin gown .
I had been busy all day attending to the strawberry preserving -- for Mary Sloane could not be trusted with that -- and I was a little tired , and thought it was hardly worth while to change my dress , especially since there was nobody to see or care , since Hester was gone .
Mary Sloane did not count .
But I did it because Hester would have cared if she had been here .
She always liked to see me neat and dainty .
So , although I was tired and sick at heart , I put on my pale blue muslin and dressed my hair .
At first I did my hair up in a way I had always liked ; but had seldom worn , because Hester had disapproved of it .
It became me ; but I suddenly felt as if it were disloyal to her , so I took the puffs down again and arranged my hair in the plain , old-fashioned way she had liked .
My hair , though it had a good many gray threads in it , was thick and long and brown still ; but that did not matter -- nothing mattered since Hester was dead and I had sent Hugh Blair away for the second time .
The Newbridge people all wondered why I had not put on mourning for Hester .
I did not tell them it was because Hester had asked me not to .
Hester had never approved of mourning ; she said that if the heart did not mourn crape would not mend matters ; and if it did there was no need of the external trappings of woe .
She told me calmly , the night before she died , to go on wearing my pretty dresses just as I had always worn them , and to make no difference in my outward life because of her going .
`` I know there will be a difference in your inward life , '' she said wistfully .
And oh , there was !
But sometimes I wondered uneasily , feeling almost conscience-stricken , whether it were wholly because Hester had left me -- whether it were no partly because , for a second time , I had shut the door of my heart in the face of love at her bidding .
When I had dressed I went downstairs to the front door , and sat on the sandstone steps under the arch of the Virginia creeper .
I was all alone , for Mary Sloane had gone to Avonlea .
It was a beautiful night ; the full moon was just rising over the wooded hills , and her light fell through the poplars into the garden before me .
Through an open corner on the western side I saw the sky all silvery blue in the afterlight .
The garden was very beautiful just then , for it was the time of the roses , and ours were all out -- so many of them -- great pink , and red , and white , and yellow roses .
Hester had loved roses and could never have enough of them .
Her favorite bush was growing by the steps , all gloried over with blossoms -- white , with pale pink hearts .
I gathered a cluster and pinned it loosely on my breast .
But my eyes filled as I did so -- I felt so very , very desolate .
I was all alone , and it was bitter .
The roses , much as I loved them , could not give me sufficient companionship .
I wanted the clasp of a human hand , and the love-light in human eyes .
And then I fell to thinking of Hugh , though I tried not to .
I had always lived alone with Hester .
I did not remember our parents , who had died in my babyhood .
Hester was fifteen years older than I , and she had always seemed more like a mother than a sister .
She had been very good to me and had never denied me anything I wanted , save the one thing that mattered .
I was twenty-five before I ever had a lover .
This was not , I think , because I was more unattractive than other women .
The Merediths had always been the `` big '' family of Newbridge .
The rest of the people looked up to us , because we were the granddaughters of old Squire Meredith .
The Newbridge young men would have thought it no use to try to woo a Meredith .
I had not a great deal of family pride , as perhaps I should be ashamed to confess .
I found our exalted position very lonely , and cared more for the simple joys of friendship and companionship which other girls had .
But Hester possessed it in a double measure ; she never allowed me to associate on a level of equality with the young people of Newbridge .
We must be very nice and kind and affable to them -- noblesse oblige , as it were -- but we must never forget that we were Merediths .
When I was twenty-five , Hugh Blair came to Newbridge , having bought a farm near the village .
He was a stranger , from Lower Carmody , and so was not imbued with any preconceptions of Meredith superiority .
In his eyes I was just a girl like others -- a girl to be wooed and won by any man of clean life and honest heart .
I met him at a little Sunday-School picnic over at Avonlea , which I attended because of my class .
I thought him very handsome and manly .
He talked to me a great deal , and at last he drove me home .
The next Sunday evening he walked up from church with me .
Hester was away , or , of course , this would never have happened .
She had gone for a month 's visit to distant friends .
In that month I lived a lifetime .
Hugh Blair courted me as the other girls in Newbridge were courted .
He took me out driving and came to see me in the evenings , which we spent for the most part in the garden .
I did not like the stately gloom and formality of our old Meredith parlor , and Hugh never seemed to feel at ease there .
His broad shoulders and hearty laughter were oddly out of place among our faded , old-maidish furnishings .
Mary Sloane was very much pleased at Hugh 's visit .
She had always resented the fact that I had never had a `` beau , '' seeming to think it reflected some slight or disparagement upon me .
She did all she could to encourage him .
But when Hester returned and found out about Hugh she was very angry -- and grieved , which hurt me far more .
She told me that I had forgotten myself and that Hugh 's visits must cease .
I had never been afraid of Hester before , but I was afraid of her then .
I yielded .
Perhaps it was very weak of me , but then I was always weak .
I think that was why Hugh 's strength had appealed so to me .
I needed love and protection .
Hester , strong and self-sufficient , had never felt such a need .
She could not understand .
Oh , how contemptuous she was .
I told Hugh timidly that Hester did not approve of our friendship and that it must end .
He took it quietly enough , and went away .
I thought he did not care much , and the thought selfishly made my own heartache worse .
I was very unhappy for a long time , but I tried not to let Hester see it , and I do n't think she did .
She was not very discerning in some things .
After a time I got over it ; that is , the heartache ceased to ache all the time .
But things were never quite the same again .
Life always seemed rather dreary and empty , in spite of Hester and my roses and my Sunday-School .
I supposed that Hugh Blair would find him a wife elsewhere , but he did not .
The years went by and we never met , although I saw him often at church .
At such times Hester always watched me very closely , but there was no need of her to do so .
Hugh made no attempt to meet me , or speak with me , and I would not have permitted it if he had .
But my heart always yearned after him .
I was selfishly glad he had not married , because if he had I could not have thought and dreamed of him -- it would have been wrong .
Perhaps , as it was , it was foolish ; but it seemed to me that I must have something , if only foolish dreams , to fill my life .
At first there was only pain in the thought of him , but afterwards a faint , misty little pleasure crept in , like a mirage from a land of lost delight .
Ten years slipped away thus .
And then Hester died .
Her illness was sudden and short ; but , before she died , she asked me to promise that I would never marry Hugh Blair .
She had not mentioned his name for years .
I thought she had forgotten all about him .
`` Oh , dear sister , is there any need of such a promise ? ''
I asked , weeping .
`` Hugh Blair does not want to marry me now .
He never will again . ''
`` He has never married -- he has not forgotten you , '' she said fiercely .
`` I could not rest in my grave if I thought you would disgrace your family by marrying beneath you .
Promise me , Margaret . ''
I promised .
I would have promised anything in my power to make her dying pillow easier .
Besides , what did it matter ?
I was sure that Hugh would never think of me again .
She smiled when she heard me , and pressed my hand .
`` Good little sister -- that is right .
You were always a good girl , Margaret -- good and obedient , though a little sentimental and foolish in some ways .
You are like our mother -- she was always weak and loving .
I took after the Merediths . ''
She did , indeed .
Even in her coffin her dark , handsome features preserved their expression of pride and determination .
Somehow , that last look of her dead face remained in my memory , blotting out the real affection and gentleness which her living face had almost always shown me .
This distressed me , but I could not help it .
I wished to think of her as kind and loving , but I could remember only the pride and coldness with which she had crushed out my new-born happiness .
Yet I felt no anger or resentment towards her for what she had done .
I knew she had meant it for the best -- my best .
It was only that she was mistaken .
And then , a month after she had died , Hugh Blair came to me and asked me to be his wife .
He said he had always loved me , and could never love any other woman .
All my old love for him reawakened .
I wanted to say yes -- to feel his strong arms about me , and the warmth of his love enfolding and guarding me .
In my weakness I yearned for his strength .
But there was my promise to Hester -- that promise give by her deathbed .
I could not break it , and I told him so .
It was the hardest thing I had ever done .
He did not go away quietly this time .
He pleaded and reasoned and reproached .
Every word of his hurt me like a knife-thrust .
But I could not break my promise to the dead .
If Hester had been living I would have braved her wrath and her estrangement and gone to him .
But she was dead and I could not do it .
Finally he went away in grief and anger .
That was three weeks ago -- and now I sat alone in the moonlit rose-garden and wept for him .
But after a time my tears dried and a very strange feeling came over me .
I felt calm and happy , as if some wonderful love and tenderness were very near me .
And now comes the strange part of my story -- the part which will not , I suppose , be believed .
If it were not for one thing I think I should hardly believe it myself .
I should feel tempted to think I had dreamed it .
But because of that one thing I know it was real .
The night was very calm and still .
Not a breath of wind stirred .
The moonshine was the brightest I had ever seen .
In the middle of the garden , where the shadow of the poplars did not fall , it was almost as bright as day .
One could have read fine print .
There was still a little rose glow in the west , and over the airy boughs of the tall poplars one or two large , bright stars were shining .
The air was sweet with a hush of dreams , and the world was so lovely that I held my breath over its beauty .
Then , all at once , down at the far end of the garden , I saw a woman walking .
I thought at first that it must be Mary Sloane ; but , as she crossed a moonlit path , I saw it was not our old servant 's stout , homely figure .
This woman was tall and erect .
Although no suspicion of the truth came to me , something about her reminded me of Hester .
Even so had Hester liked to wander about the garden in the twilight .
I had seen her thus a thousand times .
I wondered who the woman could be .
Some neighbor , of course .
But what a strange way for her to come !
She walked up the garden slowly in the poplar shade .
Now and then she stooped , as if to caress a flower , but she plucked none .
Half way up she out in to the moonlight and walked across the plot of grass in the center of the garden .
My heart gave a great throb and I stood up .
She was quite near to me now -- and I saw that it was Hester .
I can hardly say just what my feelings were at this moment .
I know that I was not surprised .
I was frightened and yet I was not frightened .
Something in me shrank back in a sickening terror ; but I , the real I , was not frightened .
I knew that this was my sister , and that there could be no reason why I should be frightened of her , because she loved me still , as she had always done .
Further than this I was not conscious of any coherent thought , either of wonder or attempt at reasoning .
Hester paused when she came to within a few steps of me .
In the moonlight I saw her face quite plainly .
It wore an expression I had never before seen on it -- a humble , wistful , tender look .
Often in life Hester had looked lovingly , even tenderly , upon me ; but always , as it were , through a mask of pride and sternness .
This was gone now , and I felt nearer to her than ever before .
I knew suddenly that she understood me .
And then the half-conscious awe and terror some part of me had felt vanished , and I only realized that Hester was here , and that there was no terrible gulf of change between us .
Hester beckoned to me and said , `` Come . ''
I stood up and followed her out of the garden .
We walked side by side down our lane , under the willows and out to the road , which lay long and still in that bright , calm moonshine .
I felt as if I were in a dream , moving at the bidding of a will not my own , which I could not have disputed even if I had wished to do so .
But I did not wish it ; I had only the feeling of a strange , boundless content .
We went down the road between the growths of young fir that bordered it .
I smelled their balsam as we passed , and noticed how clearly and darkly their pointed tops came out against the sky .
I heard the tread of my own feet on little twigs and plants in our way , and the trail of my dress over the grass ; but Hester moved noiselessly .
Then we went through the Avenue -- that stretch of road under the apple trees that Anne Shirley , over at Avonlea , calls `` The White Way of Delight . ''
It was almost dark here ; and yet I could see Hester 's face just as plainly as if the moon were shining on it ; and whenever I looked at her she was always looking at me with that strangely gentle smile on her lips .
Just as we passed out of the Avenue , James Trent overtook us , driving .
It seems to me that our feelings at a given moment are seldom what we would expect them to be .
I simply felt annoyed that James Trent , the most notorious gossip in Newbridge , should have seen me walking with Hester .
In a flash I anticipated all the annoyance of it ; he would talk of the matter far and wide .
But James Trent merely nodded and called out , `` Howdy , Miss Margaret .
Taking a moonlight stroll by yourself ?
Lovely night , ai n't it ? ''
Just then his horse suddenly swerved , as if startled , and broke into a gallop .
They whirled around the curve of the road in an instant .
I felt relieved , but puzzled .
JAMES TRENT HAD NOT SEEN HESTER .
Down over the hill was Hugh Blair 's place .
When we came to it , Hester turned in at the gate .
Then , for the first time , I understood why she had come back , and a blinding flash of joy broke over my soul .
I stopped and looked at her .
Her deep eyes gazed into mine , but she did not speak .
We went on .
Hugh 's house lay before us in the moonlight , grown over by a tangle of vines .
His garden was on our right , a quaint spot , full of old-fashioned flowers growing in a sort of disorderly sweetness .
I trod on a bed of mint , and the spice of it floated up to me like the incense of some strange , sacred , solemn ceremonial .
I felt unspeakably happy and blessed .
When we came to the door Hester said , `` Knock , Margaret . ''
I rapped gently .
In a moment , Hugh opened it .
Then that happened by which , in after days , I was to know that this strange thing was no dream or fancy of mine .
Hugh looked not at me , but past me .
`` Hester ! ''
he exclaimed , with human fear and horror in his voice .
He leaned against the door-post , the big , strong fellow , trembling from head to foot .
`` I have learned , '' said Hester , `` that nothing matters in all God 's universe , except love .
There is no pride where I have been , and no false ideals . ''
Hugh and I looked into each other 's eyes , wondering , and then we knew that we were alone .
VIII .
THE LITTLE BROWN BOOK OF MISS EMILY The first summer Mr. Irving and Miss Lavendar -- Diana and I could never call her anything else , even after she was married -- were at Echo Lodge after their marriage , both Diana and I spent a great deal of time with them .
We became acquainted with many of the Grafton people whom we had not known before , and among others , the family of Mr. Mack Leith .
We often went up to the Leiths in the evening to play croquet .
Millie and Margaret Leith were very nice girls , and the boys were nice , too .
Indeed , we liked every one in the family , except poor old Miss Emily Leith .
We tried hard enough to like her , because she seemed to like Diana and me very much , and always wanted to sit with us and talk to us , when we would much rather have been somewhere else .
We often felt a good deal of impatience at these times , but I am very glad to think now that we never showed it .
In a way , we felt sorry for Miss Emily .
She was Mr. Leith 's old-maid sister and she was not of much importance in the household .
But , though we felt sorry for her , we could n't like her .
She really was fussy and meddlesome ; she liked to poke a finger into every one 's pie , and she was not at all tactful .
Then , too , she had a sarcastic tongue , and seemed to feel bitter towards all the young folks and their love affairs .
Diana and I thought this was because she had never had a lover of her own .
Somehow , it seemed impossible to think of lovers in connection with Miss Emily .
She was short and stout and pudgy , with a face so round and fat and red that it seemed quite featureless ; and her hair was scanty and gray .
She walked with a waddle , just like Mrs. Rachel Lynde , and she was always rather short of breath .
It was hard to believe Miss Emily had ever been young ; yet old Mr. Murray , who lived next door to the Leiths , not only expected us to believe it , but assured us that she had been very pretty .
`` THAT , at least , is impossible , '' said Diana to me .
And then , one day , Miss Emily died .
I 'm afraid no one was very sorry .
It seems to me a most dreadful thing to go out of the world and leave not one person behind to be sorry because you have gone .
Miss Emily was dead and buried before Diana and I heard of it at all .
The first I knew of it was when I came home from Orchard Slope one day and found a queer , shabby little black horsehair trunk , all studded with brass nails , on the floor of my room at Green Gables .
Marilla told me that Jack Leith had brought it over , and said that it had belonged to Miss Emily and that , when she was dying , she asked them to send it to me .
`` But what is in it ?
And what am I to do with it ? ''
I asked in bewilderment .
`` There was nothing said about what you were to do with it .
Jack said they did n't know what was in it , and had n't looked into it , seeing that it was your property .
It seems a rather queer proceeding -- but you 're always getting mixed up in queer proceedings , Anne .
As for what is in it , the easiest way to find out , I reckon , is to open it and see .
The key is tied to it .
Jack said Miss Emily said she wanted you to have it because she loved you and saw her lost youth in you .
I guess she was a bit delirious at the last and wandered a good deal .
She said she wanted you ` to understand her . ' ''
I ran over to Orchard Slope and asked Diana to come over and examine the trunk with me .
I had n't received any instructions about keeping its contents secret and I knew Miss Emily would n't mind Diana knowing about them , whatever they were .
It was a cool , gray afternoon and we got back to Green Gables just as the rain was beginning to fall .
When we went up to my room the wind was rising and whistling through the boughs of the big old Snow Queen outside of my window .
Diana was excited , and , I really believe , a little bit frightened .
We opened the old trunk .
It was very small , and there was nothing in it but a big cardboard box .
The box was tied up and the knots sealed with wax .
We lifted it out and untied it .
I touched Diana 's fingers as we did it , and both of us exclaimed at once , `` How cold your hand is ! ''
In the box was a quaint , pretty , old-fashioned gown , not at all faded , made of blue muslin , with a little darker blue flower in it .
Under it we found a sash , a yellowed feather fan , and an envelope full of withered flowers .
At the bottom of the box was a little brown book .
It was small and thin , like a girl 's exercise book , with leaves that had once been blue and pink , but were now quite faded , and stained in places .
On the fly leaf was written , in a very delicate hand , `` Emily Margaret Leith , '' and the same writing covered the first few pages of the book .
The rest were not written on at all .
We sat there on the floor , Diana and I , and read the little book together , while the rain thudded against the window panes .
June 19 , 18 -- I came to-day to spend a while with Aunt Margaret in Charlottetown .
It is so pretty here , where she lives -- and ever so much nicer than on the farm at home .
I have no cows to milk here or pigs to feed .
Aunt Margaret has given me such a lovely blue muslin dress , and I am to have it made to wear at a garden party out at Brighton next week .
I never had a muslin dress before -- nothing but ugly prints and dark woolens .
I wish we were rich , like Aunt Margaret .
Aunt Margaret laughed when I said this , and declared she would give all her wealth for my youth and beauty and light-heartedness .
I am only eighteen and I know I am very merry but I wonder if I am really pretty .
It seems to me that I am when I look in Aunt Margaret 's beautiful mirrors .
They make me look very different from the old cracked one in my room at home which always twisted my face and turned me green .
But Aunt Margaret spoiled her compliment by telling me I look exactly as she did at my age .
If I thought I 'd ever look as Aunt Margaret does now , I do n't know what I 'd do .
She is so fat and red .
June 29 .
Last week I went to the garden party and I met a young man called Paul Osborne .
He is a young artist from Montreal who is boarding over at Heppoch .
He is the handsomest man I have ever seen -- very tall and slender , with dreamy , dark eyes and a pale , clever face .
I have not been able to keep from thinking about him ever since , and to-day he came over here and asked if he could paint me .
I felt very much flattered and so pleased when Aunt Margaret gave him permission .
He says he wants to paint me as `` Spring , '' standing under the poplars where a fine rain of sunshine falls through .
I am to wear my blue muslin gown and a wreath of flowers on my hair .
He says I have such beautiful hair .
He has never seen any of such a real pale gold .
Somehow it seems even prettier than ever to me since he praised it .
I had a letter from home to-day .
Ma says the blue hen stole her nest and came off with fourteen chickens , and that pa has sold the little spotted calf .
Somehow those things do n't interest me like they once did .
July 9 .
The picture is coming on very well , Mr. Osborne says .
I know he is making me look far too pretty in it , although her persists in saying he ca n't do me justice .
He is going to send it to some great exhibition when finished , but he says he will make a little water-color copy for me .
He comes every day to paint and we talk a great deal and he reads me lovely things out of his books .
I do n't understand them all , but I try to , and he explains them so nicely and is so patient with my stupidity .
And he says any one with my eyes and hair and coloring does not need to be clever .
He says I have the sweetest , merriest laugh in the world .
But I will not write down all the compliments he has paid me .
I dare say he does not mean them at all .
In the evening we stroll among the spruces or sit on the bench under the acacia tree .
Sometimes we do n't talk at all , but I never find the time long .
Indeed , the minutes just seem to fly -- and then the moon will come up , round and red , over the harbor and Mr. Osborne will sigh and say he supposes it is time for him to go .
July 24 .
I am so happy .
I am frightened at my happiness .
Oh , I did n't think life could ever be so beautiful for me as it is !
Paul loves me !
He told me so to-night as we walked by the harbor and watched the sunset , and he asked me to be his wife .
I have cared for him ever since I met him , but I am afraid I am not clever and well-educated enough for a wife for Paul .
Because , of course , I 'm only an ignorant little country girl and have lived all my life on a farm .
Why , my hands are quite rough yet from the work I 've done .
But Paul just laughed when I said so , and took my hands and kissed them .
Then he looked into my eyes and laughed again , because I could n't hide from him how much I loved him .
We are to be married next spring and Paul says he will take me to Europe .
That will be very nice , but nothing matters so long as I am with him .
Paul 's people are very wealthy and his mother and sisters are very fashionable .
I am frightened of them , but I did not tell Paul so because I think it would hurt him and oh , I would n't do that for the world .
There is nothing I would n't suffer if it would do him any good .
I never thought any one could feel so .
I used to think if I loved anybody I would want him to do everything for me and wait on me as if I were a princess .
But that is not the way at all .
Love makes you very humble and you want to do everything yourself for the one you love .
August 10 .
Paul went home to-day .
Oh , it is so terrible !
I do n't know how I can bear to live even for a little while without him .
But this is silly of me , because I know he has to go and he will write often and come to me often .
But , still , it is so lonesome .
I did n't cry when he left me because I wanted him to remember me smiling in the way he liked best , but I have been crying ever since and I ca n't stop , no matter how hard I try .
We have had such a beautiful fortnight .
Every day seemed dearer and happier than the last , and now it is ended and I feel as if it could never be the same again .
Oh , I am very foolish -- but I love him so dearly and if I were to lose his love I know I would die .
August 17 .
I think my heart is dead .
But no , it ca n't be , for it aches too much .
Paul 's mother came here to see me to-day .
She was not angry or disagreeable .
I would n't have been so frightened of her if she had been .
As it was , I felt that I could n't say a word .
She is very beautiful and stately and wonderful , with a low , cold voice and proud , dark eyes .
Her face is like Paul 's but without the loveableness of his .
She talked to me for a long time and she said terrible things -- terrible , because I knew they were all true .
I seemed to see everything through her eyes .
She said that Paul was infatuated with my youth and beauty but that it would not last and what else I to give him ?
She said Paul must marry a woman of his own class , who could do honor to his fame and position .
She said that he was very talented and had a great career before him , but that if he married me it would ruin his life .
I saw it all , just as she explained it out , and I told her at last that I would not marry Paul , and she might tell him so .
But she smiled and said I must tell him myself , because he would not believe any one else .
I could have begged her to spare me that , but I knew it would be of no use .
I do not think she has any pity or mercy for any one .
Besides , what she said was quite true .
When she thanked me for being so REASONABLE I told her I was not doing it to please her , but for Paul 's sake , because I would not spoil his life , and that I would always hate her .
She smiled again and went away .
Oh , how can I bear it ?
I did not know any one could suffer like this !
August 18 .
I have done it .
I wrote to Paul to-day .
I knew I must tell him by letter , because I could never make him believe it face to face .
I was afraid I could not even do it by letter .
I suppose a clever woman easily could , but I am so stupid .
I wrote a great many letters and tore them up , because I felt sure they would n't convince Paul .
At last I got one that I thought would do .
I knew I must make it seems as if I were very frivolous and heartless , or he would never believe .
I spelled some words wrong and put in some mistakes of grammar on purpose .
I told him I had just been flirting with him , and that I had another fellow at home I liked better .
I said FELLOW because I knew it would disgust him .
I said that it was only because he was rich that I was tempted to marry him .
I thought would my heart would break while I was writing those dreadful falsehoods .
But it was for his sake , because I must not spoil his life .
His mother told me I would be a millstone around his neck .
I love Paul so much that I would do anything rather than be that .
It would be easy to die for him , but I do n't see how I can go on living .
I think my letter will convince Paul .
I suppose it convinced Paul , because there was no further entry in the little brown book .
When we had finished it the tears were running down both our faces .
`` Oh , poor , dear Miss Emily , '' sobbed Diana .
`` I 'm so sorry I ever thought her funny and meddlesome . ''
`` She was good and strong and brave , '' I said .
`` I could never have been as unselfish as she was . ''
I thought of Whittier 's lines , `` The outward , wayward life we see The hidden springs we may not know . ''
At the back of the little brown book we found a faded water-color sketch of a young girl -- such a slim , pretty little thing , with big blue eyes and lovely , long , rippling golden hair .
Paul Osborne 's name was written in faded ink across the corner .
We put everything back in the box .
Then we sat for a long time by my window in silence and thought of many things , until the rainy twilight came down and blotted out the world .
IX .
SARA 'S WAY The warm June sunshine was coming down through the trees , white with the virginal bloom of apple-blossoms , and through the shining panes , making a tremulous mosaic upon Mrs. Eben Andrews ' spotless kitchen floor .
Through the open door , a wind , fragrant from long wanderings over orchards and clover meadows , drifted in , and , from the window , Mrs. Eben and her guest could look down over a long , misty valley sloping to a sparkling sea .
Mrs. Jonas Andrews was spending the afternoon with her sister-in-law .
She was a big , sonsy woman , with full-blown peony cheeks and large , dreamy , brown eyes .
When she had been a slim , pink-and-white girl those eyes had been very romantic .
Now they were so out of keeping with the rest of her appearance as to be ludicrous .
Mrs. Eben , sitting at the other end of the small tea-table that was drawn up against the window , was a thin little woman , with a very sharp nose and light , faded blue eyes .
She looked like a woman whose opinions were always very decided and warranted to wear .
`` How does Sara like teaching at Newbridge ? ''
asked Mrs. Jonas , helping herself a second time to Mrs. Eben 's matchless black fruit cake , and thereby bestowing a subtle compliment which Mrs. Eben did not fail to appreciate .
`` Well , I guess she likes it pretty well -- better than down at White Sands , anyway , '' answered Mrs. Eben .
`` Yes , I may say it suits her .
Of course it 's a long walk there and back .
I think it would have been wiser for her to keep on boarding at Morrison 's , as she did all winter , but Sara is bound to be home all she can .
And I must say the walk seems to agree with her . ''
`` I was down to see Jonas ' aunt at Newbridge last night , '' said Mrs. Jonas , `` and she said she 'd heard that Sara had made up her mind to take Lige Baxter at last , and that they were to be married in the fall .
She asked me if it was true .
I said I did n't know , but I hoped to mercy it was .
Now , is it , Louisa ? ''
`` Not a word of it , '' said Mrs. Eben sorrowfully .
`` Sara has n't any more notion of taking Lige than ever she had .
I 'm sure it 's not MY fault .
I 've talked and argued till I 'm tired .
I declare to you , Amelia , I am terribly disappointed .
I 'd set my heart on Sara 's marrying Lige -- and now to think she wo n't ! ''
`` She is a very foolish girl , '' said Mrs. Jonas , judicially .
`` If Lige Baxter is n't good enough for her , who is ? ''
`` And he 's so well off , '' said Mrs. Eben , `` and does such a good business , and is well spoken of by every one .
And that lovely new house of his at Newbridge , with bay windows and hardwood floors !
I 've dreamed and dreamed of seeing Sara there as mistress . ''
`` Maybe you 'll see her there yet , '' said Mrs. Jonas , who always took a hopeful view of everything , even of Sara 's contrariness .
But she felt discouraged , too .
Well , she had done her best .
If Lige Baxter 's broth was spoiled it was not for lack of cooks .
Every Andrews in Avonlea had been trying for two years to bring about a match between him and Sara , and Mrs. Jonas had borne her part valiantly .
Mrs. Eben 's despondent reply was cut short by the appearance of Sara herself .
The girl stood for a moment in the doorway and looked with a faintly amused air at her aunts .
She knew quite well that they had been discussing her , for Mrs. Jonas , who carried her conscience in her face , looked guilty , and Mrs. Eben had not been able wholly to banish her aggrieved expression .
Sara put away her books , kissed Mrs. Jonas ' rosy cheek , and sat down at the table .
Mrs. Eben brought her some fresh tea , some hot rolls , and a little jelly-pot of the apricot preserves Sara liked , and she cut some more fruit cake for her in moist plummy slices .
She might be out of patience with Sara 's `` contrariness , '' but she spoiled and petted her for all that , for the girl was the very core of her childless heart .
Sara Andrews was not , strictly speaking , pretty ; but there was that about her which made people look at her twice .
She was very dark , with a rich , dusky sort of darkness , her deep eyes were velvety brown , and her lips and cheeks were crimson .
She ate her rolls and preserves with a healthy appetite , sharpened by her long walk from Newbridge , and told amusing little stories of her day 's work that made the two older women shake with laughter , and exchange shy glances of pride over her cleverness .
When tea was over she poured the remaining contents of the cream jug into a saucer .
`` I must feed my pussy , '' she said as she left the room .
`` That girl beats me , '' said Mrs. Eben with a sigh of perplexity .
`` You know that black cat we 've had for two years ?
Eben and I have always made a lot of him , but Sara seemed to have a dislike to him .
Never a peaceful nap under the stove could he have when Sara was home -- out he must go .
Well , a little spell ago he got his leg broke accidentally and we thought he 'd have to be killed .
But Sara would n't hear of it .
She got splints and set his leg just as knacky , and bandaged it up , and she has tended him like a sick baby ever since .
He 's just about well now , and he lives in clover , that cat does .
It 's just her way .
There 's them sick chickens she 's been doctoring for a week , giving them pills and things !
`` And she thinks more of that wretched-looking calf that got poisoned with paris green than of all the other stock on the place . ''
As the summer wore away , Mrs. Eben tried to reconcile herself to the destruction of her air castles .
But she scolded Sara considerably .
`` Sara , why do n't you like Lige ?
I 'm sure he is a model young man . ''
`` I do n't like model young men , '' answered Sara impatiently .
`` And I really think I hate Lige Baxter .
He has always been held up to me as such a paragon .
I 'm tired of hearing about all his perfections .
I know them all off by heart .
He does n't drink , he does n't smoke , he does n't steal , he does n't tell fibs , he never loses his temper , he does n't swear , and he goes to church regularly .
Such a faultless creature as that would certainly get on my nerves .
No , no , you 'll have to pick out another mistress for your new house at the Bridge , Aunt Louisa . ''
When the apple trees , that had been pink and white in June , were russet and bronze in October , Mrs. Eben had a quilting .
The quilt was of the `` Rising Star '' pattern , which was considered in Avonlea to be very handsome .
Mrs. Eben had intended it for part of Sara 's `` setting out , '' and , while she sewed the red-and-white diamonds together , she had regaled her fancy by imagining she saw it spread out on the spare-room bed of the house at Newbridge , with herself laying her bonnet and shawl on it when she went to see Sara .
Those bright visions had faded with the apple blossoms , and Mrs. Eben hardly had the heart to finish the quilt at all .
The quilting came off on Saturday afternoon , when Sara could be home from school .
All Mrs. Eben 's particular friends were ranged around the quilt , and tongues and fingers flew .
Sara flitted about , helping her aunt with the supper preparations .
She was in the room , getting the custard dishes out of the cupboard , when Mrs. George Pye arrived .
Mrs. George had a genius for being late .
She was later than usual to-day , and she looked excited .
Every woman around the `` Rising Star '' felt that Mrs. George had some news worth listening to , and there was an expectant silence while she pulled out her chair and settled herself at the quilt .
She was a tall , thin woman with a long pale face and liquid green eyes .
As she looked around the circle she had the air of a cat daintily licking its chops over some titbit .
`` I suppose , '' she said , `` that you have heard the news ? ''
She knew perfectly well that they had not .
Every other woman at the frame stopped quilting .
Mrs. Eben came to the door with a pan of puffy , smoking-hot soda biscuits in her hand .
Sara stopped counting the custard dishes , and turned her ripely-colored face over her shoulder .
Even the black cat , at her feet , ceased preening his fur .
Mrs. George felt that the undivided attention of her audience was hers .
`` Baxter Brothers have failed , '' she said , her green eyes shooting out flashes of light .
`` Failed DISGRACEFULLY ! ''
She paused for a moment ; but , since her hearers were as yet speechless from surprise , she went on .
`` George came home from Newbridge , just before I left , with the news .
You could have knocked me down with a feather .
I should have thought that firm was as steady as the Rock of Gibraltar !
But they 're ruined -- absolutely ruined .
Louisa , dear , can you find me a good needle ? ''
`` Louisa , dear , '' had set her biscuits down with a sharp thud , reckless of results .
A sharp , metallic tinkle sounded at the closet where Sara had struck the edge of her tray against a shelf .
The sound seemed to loosen the paralyzed tongues , and everybody began talking and exclaiming at once .
Clear and shrill above the confusion rose Mrs. George Pye 's voice .
`` Yes , indeed , you may well say so .
It IS disgraceful .
And to think how everybody trusted them !
George will lose considerable by the crash , and so will a good many folks .
Everything will have to go -- Peter Baxter 's farm and Lige 's grand new house .
Mrs. Peter wo n't carry her head so high after this , I 'll be bound .
George saw Lige at the Bridge , and he said he looked dreadful cut up and ashamed . ''
`` Who , or what 's to blame for the failure ? ''
asked Mrs. Rachel Lynde sharply .
She did not like Mrs. George Pye .
`` There are a dozen different stories on the go , '' was the reply .
`` As far as George could make out , Peter Baxter has been speculating with other folks ' money , and this is the result .
Everybody always suspected that Peter was crooked ; but you 'd have thought that Lige would have kept him straight .
HE had always such a reputation for saintliness . ''
`` I do n't suppose Lige knew anything about it , '' said Mrs. Rachel indignantly .
`` Well , he 'd ought to , then .
If he is n't a knave he 's a fool , '' said Mrs. Harmon Andrews , who had formerly been among his warmest partisans .
`` He should have kept watch on Peter and found out how the business was being run .
Well , Sara , you were the level-headest of us all -- I 'll admit that now .
A nice mess it would be if you were married or engaged to Lige , and him left without a cent -- even if he can clear his character ! ''
`` There is a good deal of talk about Peter , and swindling , and a lawsuit , '' said Mrs. George Pye , quilting industriously .
`` Most of the Newbridge folks think it 's all Peter 's fault , and that Lige is n't to blame .
But you ca n't tell .
I dare say Lige is as deep in the mire as Peter .
He was always a little too good to be wholesome , I thought . ''
There was a clink of glass at the cupboard , as Sara set the tray down .
She came forward and stood behind Mrs. Rachel Lynde 's chair , resting her shapely hands on that lady 's broad shoulders .
Her face was very pale , but her flashing eyes sought and faced defiantly Mrs. George Pye 's cat-like orbs .
Her voice quivered with passion and contempt .
`` You 'll all have a fling at Lige Baxter , now that he 's down .
You could n't say enough in his praise , once .
I 'll not stand by and hear it hinted that Lige Baxter is a swindler .
You all know perfectly well that Lige is as honest as the day , if he IS so unfortunate as to have an unprincipled brother .
You , Mrs. Pye , know it better than any one , yet you come here and run him down the minute he 's in trouble .
If there 's another word said here against Lige Baxter I 'll leave the room and the house till you 're gone , every one of you . ''
She flashed a glance around the quilt that cowed the gossips .
Even Mrs. George Pye 's eyes flickered and waned and quailed .
Nothing more was said until Sara had picked up her glasses and marched from the room .
Even then they dared not speak above a whisper .
Mrs. Pye , alone , smarting from snub , ventured to ejaculate , `` Pity save us ! ''
as Sara slammed the door .
For the next fortnight gossip and rumor held high carnival in Avonlea and Newbridge , and Mrs. Eben grew to dread the sight of a visitor .
`` They 're bound to talk about the Baxter failure and criticize Lige , '' she deplored to Mrs. Jonas .
`` And it riles Sara up so terrible .
She used to declare that she hated Lige , and now she wo n't listen to a word against him .
Not that I say any , myself .
I 'm sorry for him , and I believe he 's done his best .
But I ca n't stop other people from talking . ''
One evening Harmon Andrews came in with a fresh budget of news .
`` The Baxter business is pretty near wound up at last , '' he said , as he lighted his pipe .
`` Peter has got his lawsuits settled and has hushed up the talk about swindling , somehow .
Trust him for slipping out of a scrape clean and clever .
He do n't seem to worry any , but Lige looks like a walking skeleton .
Some folks pity him , but I say he should have kept the run of things better and not have trusted everything to Peter .
I hear he 's going out West in the Spring , to take up land in Alberta and try his hand at farming .
Best thing he can do , I guess .
Folks hereabouts have had enough of the Baxter breed .
Newbridge will be well rid of them . ''
Sara , who had been sitting in the dark corner by the stove , suddenly stood up , letting the black cat slip from her lap to the floor .
Mrs. Eben glanced at her apprehensively , for she was afraid the girl was going to break out in a tirade against the complacent Harmon .
But Sara only walked fiercely out of the kitchen , with a sound as if she were struggling for breath .
In the hall she snatched a scarf from the wall , flung open the front door , and rushed down the lane in the chill , pure air of the autumn twilight .
Her heart was throbbing with the pity she always felt for bruised and baited creatures .
On and on she went heedlessly , intent only on walking away her pain , over gray , brooding fields and winding slopes , and along the skirts of ruinous , dusky pine woods , curtained with fine spun purple gloom .
Her dress brushed against the brittle grasses and sere ferns , and the moist night wind , loosed from wild places far away , blew her hair about her face .
At last she came to a little rustic gate , leading into a shadowy wood-lane .
The gate was bound with willow withes , and , as Sara fumbled vainly at them with her chilled hands , a man 's firm step came up behind her , and Lige Baxter 's hand closed over her 's .
`` Oh , Lige ! ''
she said , with something like a sob .
He opened the gate and drew her through .
She left her hand in his , as they walked through the lane where lissome boughs of young saplings flicked against their heads , and the air was wildly sweet with the woodsy odors .
`` It 's a long while since I 've seen you , Lige , '' Sara said at last .
Lige looked wistfully down at her through the gloom .
`` Yes , it seems very long to me , Sara .
But I did n't think you 'd care to see me , after what you said last spring .
And you know things have been going against me .
People have said hard things .
I 've been unfortunate , Sara , and may be too easy-going , but I 've been honest .
Do n't believe folks if they tell you I was n't . ''
`` Indeed , I never did -- not for a minute ! ''
fired Sara .
`` I 'm glad of that .
I 'm going away , later on .
I felt bad enough when you refused to marry me , Sara ; but it 's well that you did n't .
I 'm man enough to be thankful my troubles do n't fall on you . ''
Sara stopped and turned to him .
Beyond them the lane opened into a field and a clear lake of crocus sky cast a dim light into the shadow where they stood .
Above it was a new moon , like a gleaming silver scimitar .
Sara saw it was over her left shoulder , and she saw Lige 's face above her , tender and troubled .
`` Lige , '' she said softly , `` do you love me still ? ''
`` You know I do , '' said Lige sadly .
That was all Sara wanted .
With a quick movement she nestled into his arms , and laid her warm , tear-wet cheek against his cold one .
When the amazing rumor that Sara was going to marry Lige Baxter , and go out West with him , circulated through the Andrews clan , hands were lifted and heads were shaken .
Mrs. Jonas puffed and panted up the hill to learn if it were true .
She found Mrs. Eben stitching for dear life on an `` Irish Chain '' quilt , while Sara was sewing the diamonds on another `` Rising Star '' with a martyr-like expression on her face .
Sara hated patchwork above everything else , but Mrs. Eben was mistress up to a certain point .
`` You 'll have to make that quilt , Sara Andrews .
If you 're going to live out on those prairies , you 'll need piles of quilts , and you shall have them if I sew my fingers to the bone .
But you 'll have to help make them . ''
And Sara had to .
When Mrs. Jonas came , Mrs. Eben sent Sara off to the post-office to get her out of the way .
`` I suppose it 's true , this time ? ''
said Mrs. Jonas .
`` Yes , indeed , '' said Mrs. Eben briskly .
`` Sara is set on it .
There is no use trying to move her -- you know that -- so I 've just concluded to make the best of it .
I 'm no turn-coat .
Lige Baxter is Lige Baxter still , neither more nor less .
I 've always said he 's a fine young man , and I say so still .
After all , he and Sara wo n't be any poorer than Eben and I were when we started out . ''
Mrs. Jonas heaved a sigh of relief .
`` I 'm real glad you take that view of it , Louisa .
I 'm not displeased , either , although Mrs. Harmon would take my head off if she heard me say so .
I always liked Lige .
But I must say I 'm amazed , too , after the way Sara used to rail at him . ''
`` Well , we might have expected it , '' said Mrs. Eben sagely .
`` It was always Sara 's way .
When any creature got sick or unfortunate she seemed to take it right into her heart .
So you may say Lige Baxter 's failure was a success after all . ''
X .
THE SON OF HIS MOTHER Thyra Carewe was waiting for Chester to come home .
She sat by the west window of the kitchen , looking out into the gathering of the shadows with the expectant immovability that characterized her .
She never twitched or fidgeted .
Into whatever she did she put the whole force of her nature .
If it was sitting still , she sat still .
`` A stone image would be twitchedly beside Thyra , '' said Mrs. Cynthia White , her neighbor across the lane .
`` It gets on my nerves , the way she sits at that window sometimes , with no more motion than a statue and her great eyes burning down the lane .
When I read the commandment , ` Thou shalt have no other gods before me , ' I declare I always think of Thyra .
She worships that son of hers far ahead of her Creator .
She 'll be punished for it yet . ''
Mrs. White was watching Thyra now , knitting furiously , as she watched , in order to lose no time .
Thyra 's hands were folded idly in her lap .
She had not moved a muscle since she sat down .
Mrs. White complained it gave her the weeps .
`` It does n't seem natural to see a woman sit so still , '' she said .
`` Sometimes the thought comes to me , ` what if she 's had a stroke , like her old Uncle Horatio , and is sitting there stone dead ! ' ''
The evening was cold and autumnal .
There was a fiery red spot out at sea , where the sun had set , and , above it , over a chill , clear , saffron sky , were reefs of purple-black clouds .
The river , below the Carewe homestead , was livid .
Beyond it , the sea was dark and brooding .
It was an evening to make most people shiver and forebode an early winter ; but Thyra loved it , as she loved all stern , harshly beautiful things .
She would not light a lamp because it would blot out the savage grandeur of sea and sky .
It was better to wait in the darkness until Chester came home .
He was late to-night .
She thought he had been detained over-time at the harbor , but she was not anxious .
He would come straight home to her as soon as his business was completed -- of that she felt sure .
Her thoughts went out along the bleak harbor road to meet him .
She could see him plainly , coming with his free stride through the sandy hollows and over the windy hills , in the harsh , cold light of that forbidding sunset , strong and handsome in his comely youth , with her own deeply cleft chin and his father 's dark gray , straightforward eyes .
No other woman in Avonlea had a son like hers -- her only one .
In his brief absences she yearned after him with a maternal passion that had in it something of physical pain , so intense was it .
She thought of Cynthia White , knitting across the road , with contemptuous pity .
That woman had no son -- nothing but pale-faced girls .
Thyra had never wanted a daughter , but she pitied and despised all sonless women .
Chester 's dog whined suddenly and piercingly on the doorstep outside .
He was tired of the cold stone and wanted his warm corner behind the stove .
Thyra smiled grimly when she heard him .
She had no intention of letting him in .
She said she had always disliked dogs , but the truth , although she would not glance at it , was that she hated the animal because Chester loved him .
She could not share his love with even a dumb brute .
She loved no living creature in the world but her son , and fiercely demanded a like concentrated affection from him .
Hence it pleased her to hear his dog whine .
It was now quite dark ; the stars had begun to shine out over the shorn harvest fields , and Chester had not come .
Across the lane Cynthia White had pulled down her blind , in despair of out-watching Thyra , and had lighted a lamp .
Lively shadows of little girl-shapes passed and repassed on the pale oblong of light .
They made Thyra conscious of her exceeding loneliness .
She had just decided that she would walk down the lane and wait for Chester on the bridge , when a thunderous knock came at the east kitchen door .
She recognized August Vorst 's knock and lighted a lamp in no great haste , for she did not like him .
He was a gossip and Thyra hated gossip , in man or woman .
But August was privileged .
She carried the lamp in her hand , when she went to the door , and its upward-striking light gave her face a ghastly appearance .
She did not mean to ask August in , but he pushed past her cheerfully , not waiting to be invited .
He was a midget of a man , lame of foot and hunched of back , with a white , boyish face , despite his middle age and deep-set , malicious black eyes .
He pulled a crumpled newspaper from his pocket and handed it to Thyra .
He was the unofficial mail-carrier of Avonlea .
Most of the people gave him a trifle for bringing their letters and papers from the office .
He earned small sums in various other ways , and so contrived to keep the life in his stunted body .
There was always venom in August 's gossip .
It was said that he made more mischief in Avonlea in a day than was made otherwise in a year , but people tolerated him by reason of his infirmity .
To be sure , it was the tolerance they gave to inferior creatures , and August felt this .
Perhaps it accounted for a good deal of his malignity .
He hated most those who were kindest to him , and , of these , Thyra Carewe above all .
He hated Chester , too , as he hated strong , shapely creatures .
His time had come at last to wound them both , and his exultation shone through his crooked body and pinched features like an illuminating lamp .
Thyra perceived it and vaguely felt something antagonistic in it .
She pointed to the rocking-chair , as she might have pointed out a mat to a dog .
August crawled into it and smiled .
He was going to make her writhe presently , this woman who looked down upon him as some venomous creeping thing she disdained to crush with her foot .
`` Did you see anything of Chester on the road ? ''
asked Thyra , giving August the very opening he desired .
`` He went to the harbor after tea to see Joe Raymond about the loan of his boat , but it 's the time he should be back .
I ca n't think what keeps the boy . ''
`` Just what keeps most men -- leaving out creatures like me -- at some time or other in their lives .
A girl -- a pretty girl , Thyra .
It pleases me to look at her .
Even a hunchback can use his eyes , eh ?
Oh , she 's a rare one ! ''
`` What is the man talking about ? ''
said Thyra wonderingly .
`` Damaris Garland , to be sure .
Chester 's down at Tom Blair 's now , talking to her -- and looking more than his tongue says , too , of that you may be sure .
Well , well , we were all young once , Thyra -- all young once , even crooked little August Vorst .
Eh , now ? ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
said Thyra .
She had sat down in a chair before him , with her hands folded in her lap .
Her face , always pale , had not changed ; but her lips were curiously white .
August Vorst saw this and it pleased him .
Also , her eyes were worth looking at , if you liked to hurt people -- and that was the only pleasure August took in life .
He would drink this delightful cup of revenge for her long years of disdainful kindness -- ah , he would drink it slowly to prolong its sweetness .
Sip by sip -- he rubbed his long , thin , white hands together -- sip by sip , tasting each mouthful .
`` Eh , now ?
You know well enough , Thyra . ''
`` I know nothing of what you would be at , August Vorst .
You speak of my son and Damaris -- was that the name ?
-- Damaris Garland as if they were something to each other .
I ask you what you mean by it ? ''
`` Tut , tut , Thyra , nothing very terrible .
There 's no need to look like that about it .
Young men will be young men to the end of time , and there 's no harm in Chester 's liking to look at a lass , eh , now ?
Or in talking to her either ?
The little baggage , with the red lips of her !
She and Chester will make a pretty pair .
He 's not so ill-looking for a man , Thyra . ''
`` I am not a very patient woman , August , '' said Thyra coldly .
`` I have asked you what you mean , and I want a straight answer .
Is Chester down at Tom Blair 's while I have been sitting here , alone , waiting for him ? ''
August nodded .
He saw that it would not be wise to trifle longer with Thyra .
`` That he is .
I was there before I came here .
He and Damaris were sitting in a corner by themselves , and very well-satisfied they seemed to be with each other .
Tut , tut , Thyra , do n't take the news so .
I thought you knew .
It 's no secret that Chester has been going after Damaris ever since she came here .
But what then ?
You ca n't tie him to your apron strings forever , woman .
He 'll be finding a mate for himself , as he should .
Seeing that he 's straight and well-shaped , no doubt Damaris will look with favor on him .
Old Martha Blair declares the girl loves him better than her eyes . ''
Thyra made a sound like a strangled moan in the middle of August 's speech .
She heard the rest of it immovably .
When it came to an end she stood and looked down upon him in a way that silenced him .
`` You 've told the news you came to tell , and gloated over it , and now get you gone , '' she said slowly .
`` Now , Thyra , '' he began , but she interrupted him threateningly .
`` Get you gone , I say !
And you need not bring my mail here any longer .
I want no more of your misshapen body and lying tongue ! ''
August went , but at the door he turned for a parting stab .
`` My tongue is not a lying one , Mrs. Carewe .
I 've told you the truth , as all Avonlea knows it .
Chester is mad about Damaris Garland .
It 's no wonder I thought you knew what all the settlement can see .
But you 're such a jealous , odd body , I suppose the boy hid it from you for fear you 'd go into a tantrum .
As for me , I 'll not forget that you 've turned me from your door because I chanced to bring you news you 'd no fancy for . ''
Thyra did not answer him .
When the door closed behind him she locked it and blew out the light .
Then she threw herself face downward on the sofa and burst into wild tears .
Her very soul ached .
She wept as tempestuously and unreasoningly as youth weeps , although she was not young .
It seemed as if she was afraid to stop weeping lest she should go mad thinking .
But , after a time , tears failed her , and she began bitterly to go over , word by word , what August Vorst had said .
That her son should ever cast eyes of love on any girl was something Thyra had never thought about .
She would not believe it possible that he should love any one but herself , who loved him so much .
And now the possibility invaded her mind as subtly and coldly and remorselessly as a sea-fog stealing landward .
Chester had been born to her at an age when most women are letting their children slip from them into the world , with some natural tears and heartaches , but content to let them go , after enjoying their sweetest years .
Thyra 's late-come motherhood was all the more intense and passionate because of its very lateness .
She had been very ill when her son was born , and had lain helpless for long weeks , during which other women had tended her baby for her .
She had never been able to forgive them for this .
Her husband had died before Chester was a year old .
She had laid their son in his dying arms and received him back again with a last benediction .
To Thyra that moment had something of a sacrament in it .
It was as if the child had been doubly given to her , with a right to him solely that nothing could take away or transcend .
Marrying !
She had never thought of it in connection with him .
He did not come of a marrying race .
His father had been sixty when he had married her , Thyra Lincoln , likewise well on in life .
Few of the Lincolns or Carewes had married young , many not at all .
And , to her , Chester was her baby still .
He belonged solely to her .
And now another woman had dared to look upon him with eyes of love .
Damaris Garland !
Thyra now remembered seeing her .
She was a new-comer in Avonlea , having come to live with her uncle and aunt after the death of her mother .
Thyra had met her on the bridge one day a month previously .
Yes , a man might think she was pretty -- a low-browed girl , with a wave of reddish-gold hair , and crimson lips blossoming out against the strange , milk-whiteness of her skin .
Her eyes , too -- Thyra recalled them -- hazel in tint , deep , and laughter-brimmed .
The girl had gone past her with a smile that brought out many dimples .
There was a certain insolent quality in her beauty , as if it flaunted itself somewhat too defiantly in the beholder 's eye .
Thyra had turned and looked after the lithe , young creature , wondering who she might be .
And to-night , while she , his mother , waited for him in darkness and loneliness , he was down at Blair 's , talking to this girl !
He loved her ; and it was past doubt that she loved him .
The thought was more bitter than death to Thyra .
That she should dare !
Her anger was all against the girl .
She had laid a snare to get Chester and he , like a fool , was entangled in it , thinking , man-fashion , only of her great eyes and red lips .
Thyra thought savagely of Damaris ' beauty .
`` She shall not have him , '' she said , with slow emphasis .
`` I will never give him up to any other woman , and , least of all , to her .
She would leave me no place in his heart at all -- me , his mother , who almost died to give him life .
He belongs to me !
Let her look for the son of some other woman -- some woman who has many sons .
She shall not have my only one ! ''
She got up , wrapped a shawl about her head , and went out into the darkly golden evening .
The clouds had cleared away , and the moon was shining .
The air was chill , with a bell-like clearness .
The alders by the river rustled eerily as she walked by them and out upon the bridge .
Here she paced up and down , peering with troubled eyes along the road beyond , or leaning over the rail , looking at the sparkling silver ribbon of moonlight that garlanded the waters .
Late travelers passed her , and wondered at her presence and mien .
Carl White saw her , and told his wife about her when he got home .
`` Striding to and fro over the bridge like mad !
At first I thought it was old , crazy May Blair .
What do you suppose she was doing down there at this hour of the night ? ''
`` Watching for Ches , no doubt , '' said Cynthia .
`` He ai n't home yet .
Likely he 's snug at Blairs ' .
I do wonder if Thyra suspicions that he goes after Damaris .
I 've never dared to hint it to her .
She 'd be as liable to fly at me , tooth and claw , as not . ''
`` Well , she picks out a precious queer night for moon-gazing , '' said Carl , who was a jolly soul and took life as he found it .
`` It 's bitter cold -- there 'll be a hard frost .
It 's a pity she ca n't get it grained into her that the boy is grown up and must have his fling like the other lads .
She 'll go out of her mind yet , like her old grandmother Lincoln , if she does n't ease up .
I 've a notion to go down to the bridge and reason a bit with her . ''
`` Indeed , and you 'll do no such thing ! ''
cried Cynthia .
`` Thyra Carewe is best left alone , if she is in a tantrum .
She 's like no other woman in Avonlea -- or out of it .
I 'd as soon meddle with a tiger as her , if she 's rampaging about Chester .
I do n't envy Damaris Garland her life if she goes in there .
Thyra 'd sooner strangle her than not , I guess . ''
`` You women are all terrible hard on Thyra , '' said Carl , good-naturedly .
He had been in love with Thyra , himself , long ago , and he still liked her in a friendly fashion .
He always stood up for her when the Avonlea women ran her down .
He felt troubled about her all night , recalling her as she paced the bridge .
He wished he had gone back , in spite of Cynthia .
When Chester came home he met his mother on the bridge .
In the faint , yet penetrating , moonlight they looked curiously alike , but Chester had the milder face .
He was very handsome .
Even in the seething of her pain and jealousy Thyra yearned over his beauty .
She would have liked to put up her hands and caress his face , but her voice was very hard when she asked him where he had been so late .
`` I called in at Tom Blair 's on my way home from the harbor , '' he answered , trying to walk on .
But she held him back by his arm .
`` Did you go there to see Damaris ? ''
she demanded fiercely .
Chester was uncomfortable .
Much as he loved his mother , he felt , and always had felt , an awe of her and an impatient dislike of her dramatic ways of speaking and acting .
He reflected , resentfully , that no other young man in Avonlea , who had been paying a friendly call , would be met by his mother at midnight and held up in such tragic fashion to account for himself .
He tried vainly to loosen her hold upon his arm , but he understood quite well that he must give her an answer .
Being strictly straight-forward by nature and upbringing , he told the truth , albeit with more anger in his tone than he had ever shown to his mother before .
`` Yes , '' he said shortly .
Thyra released his arm , and struck her hands together with a sharp cry .
There was a savage note in it .
She could have slain Damaris Garland at that moment .
`` Do n't go on so , mother , '' said Chester , impatiently .
`` Come in out of the cold .
It is n't fit for you to be here .
Who has been tampering with you ?
What if I did go to see Damaris ? ''
`` Oh -- oh -- oh ! ''
cried Thyra .
`` I was waiting for you -- alone -- and you were thinking only of her !
Chester , answer me -- do you love her ? ''
The blood rolled rapidly over the boy 's face .
He muttered something and tried to pass on , but she caught him again .
He forced himself to speak gently .
`` What if I do , mother ? ''
It would n't be such a dreadful thing , would it ? ''
`` And me ?
And me ? ''
cried Thyra .
`` What am I to you , then ? ''
`` You are my mother .
I would n't love you any the less because I cared for another , too . ''
`` I wo n't have you love another , '' she cried .
`` I want all your love -- all !
What 's that baby-face to you , compared to your mother ?
I have the best right to you .
I wo n't give you up . ''
Chester realized that there was no arguing with such a mood .
He walked on , resolved to set the matter aside until she might be more reasonable .
But Thyra would not have it so .
She followed on after him , under the alders that crowded over the lane .
`` Promise me that you 'll not go there again , '' she entreated .
`` Promise me that you 'll give her up . ''
`` I ca n't promise such a thing , '' he cried angrily .
His anger hurt her worse than a blow , but she did not flinch .
`` You 're not engaged to her ? ''
she cried out .
`` Now , mother , be quiet .
All the settlement will hear you .
Why do you object to Damaris ?
You do n't know how sweet she is .
When you know her -- '' `` I will never know her ! ''
cried Thyra furiously .
`` And she shall not have you !
She shall not , Chester ! ''
He made no answer .
She suddenly broke into tears and loud sobs .
Touched with remorse , he stopped and put his arms about her .
`` Mother , mother , do n't !
I ca n't bear to see you cry so .
But , indeed , you are unreasonable .
Did n't you ever think the time would come when I would want to marry , like other men ? ''
`` No , no !
And I will not have it -- I can not bear it , Chester .
You must promise not to go to see her again .
I wo n't go into the house this night until you do .
I 'll stay out here in the bitter cold until you promise to put her out of your thoughts . ''
`` That 's beyond my power , mother .
Oh , mother , you 're making it hard for me .
Come in , come in !
You 're shivering with cold now .
You 'll be sick . ''
`` Not a step will I stir till you promise .
Say you wo n't go to see that girl any more , and there 's nothing I wo n't do for you .
But if you put her before me , I 'll not go in -- I never will go in . ''
With most women this would have been an empty threat ; but it was not so with Thyra , and Chester knew it .
He knew she would keep her word .
And he feared more than that .
In this frenzy of hers what might she not do ?
She came of a strange breed , as had been said disapprovingly when Luke Carewe married her .
There was a strain of insanity in the Lincolns .
A Lincoln woman had drowned herself once .
Chester thought of the river , and grew sick with fright .
For a moment even his passion for Damaris weakened before the older tie .
`` Mother , calm yourself .
Oh , surely there 's no need of all this !
Let us wait until to-morrow , and talk it over then .
I 'll hear all you have to say .
Come in , dear . ''
Thyra loosened her arms from about him , and stepped back into a moon-lit space .
Looking at him tragically , she extended her arms and spoke slowly and solemnly .
`` Chester , choose between us .
If you choose her , I shall go from you to-night , and you will never see me again ! ''
`` Mother ! ''
`` Choose ! ''
she reiterated , fiercely .
He felt her long ascendancy .
Its influence was not to be shaken off in a moment .
