In all his life he had never disobeyed her .
Besides , with it all , he loved her more deeply and understandingly than most sons love their mothers .
He realized that , since she would have it so , his choice was already made -- or , rather that he had no choice .
`` Have your way , '' he said sullenly .
She ran to him and caught him to her heart .
In the reaction of her feeling she was half laughing , half crying .
All was well again -- all would be well ; she never doubted this , for she knew he would keep his ungracious promise sacredly .
`` Oh , my son , my son , '' she murmured , `` you 'd have sent me to my death if you had chosen otherwise .
But now you are mine again ! ''
She did not heed that he was sullen -- that he resented her unjustice with all her own intensity .
She did not heed his silence as they went into the house together .
Strangely enough , she slept well and soundly that night .
Not until many days had passed did she understand that , though Chester might keep his promise in the letter , it was beyond his power to keep it in the spirit .
She had taken him from Damaris Garland ; but she had not won him back to herself .
He could never be wholly her son again .
There was a barrier between them which not all her passionate love could break down .
Chester was gravely kind to her , for it was not in his nature to remain sullen long , or visit his own unhappiness upon another 's head ; besides , he understood her exacting affection , even in its injustice , and it has been well-said that to understand is to forgive .
But he avoided her , and she knew it .
The flame of her anger burned bitterly towards Damaris .
`` He thinks of her all the time , '' she moaned to herself .
`` He 'll come to hate me yet , I fear , because it 's I who made him give her up .
But I 'd rather even that than share him with another woman .
Oh , my son , my son ! ''
She knew that Damaris was suffering , too .
The girl 's wan face told that when she met her .
But this pleased Thyra .
It eased the ache in her bitter heart to know that pain was gnawing at Damaris ' also .
Chester was absent from home very often now .
He spent much of his spare time at the harbor , consorting with Joe Raymond and others of that ilk , who were but sorry associates for him , Avonlea people thought .
In late November he and Joe started for a trip down the coast in the latter 's boat .
Thyra protested against it , but Chester laughed at her alarm .
Thyra saw him go with a heart sick from fear .
She hated the sea , and was afraid of it at any time ; but , most of all , in this treacherous month , with its sudden , wild gales .
Chester had been fond of the sea from boyhood .
She had always tried to stifle this fondness and break off his associations with the harbor fishermen , who liked to lure the high-spirited boy out with them on fishing expeditions .
But her power over him was gone now .
After Chester 's departure she was restless and miserable , wandering from window to window to scan the dour , unsmiling sky .
Carl White , dropping in to pay a call , was alarmed when he heard that Chester had gone with Joe , and had not tact enough to conceal his alarm from Thyra . '' '
T is n't safe this time of year , '' he said .
`` Folks expect no better from that reckless , harum-scarum Joe Raymond .
He 'll drown himself some day , there 's nothing surer .
This mad freak of starting off down the shore in November is just of a piece with his usual performances .
But you should n't have let Chester go , Thyra . ''
`` I could n't prevent him .
Say what I could , he would go .
He laughed when I spoke of danger .
Oh , he 's changed from what he was !
I know who has wrought the change , and I hate her for it ! ''
Carl shrugged his fat shoulders .
He knew quite well that Thyra was at the bottom of the sudden coldness between Chester Carewe and Damaris Garland , about which Avonlea gossip was busying itself .
He pitied Thyra , too .
She had aged rapidly the past month .
`` You 're too hard on Chester , Thyra .
He 's out of leading-strings now , or should be .
You must just let me take an old friend 's privilege , and tell you that you 're taking the wrong way with him .
You 're too jealous and exacting , Thyra . ''
`` You do n't know anything about it .
You have never had a son , '' said Thyra , cruelly enough , for she knew that Carl 's sonlessness was a rankling thorn in his mind .
`` You do n't know what it is to pour out your love on one human being , and have it flung back in your face ! ''
Carl could not cope with Thyra 's moods .
He had never understood her , even in his youth .
Now he went home , still shrugging his shoulders , and thinking that it was a good thing Thyra had not looked on him with favor in the old days .
Cynthia was much easier to get along with .
More than Thyra looked anxiously to sea and sky that night in Avonlea .
Damaris Garland listened to the smothered roar of the Atlantic in the murky northeast with a prescience of coming disaster .
Friendly longshoremen shook their heads and said that Ches and Joe would better have kept to good , dry land .
`` It 's sorry work joking with a November gale , '' said Abel Blair .
He was an old man and , in his life , had seen some sad things along the shore .
Thyra could not sleep that night .
When the gale came shrieking up the river , and struck the house , she got out of bed and dressed herself .
The wind screamed like a ravening beast at her window .
All night she wandered to and fro in the house , going from room to room , now wringing her hands with loud outcries , now praying below her breath with white lips , now listening in dumb misery to the fury of the storm .
The wind raged all the next day ; but spent itself in the following night , and the second morning was calm and fair .
The eastern sky was a great arc of crystal , smitten through with auroral crimsonings .
Thyra , looking from her kitchen window , saw a group of men on the bridge .
They were talking to Carl White , with looks and gestures directed towards the Carewe house .
She went out and down to them .
None of these who saw her white , rigid face that day ever forgot the sight .
`` You have news for me , '' she said .
They looked at each other , each man mutely imploring his neighbor to speak .
`` You need not fear to tell me , '' said Thyra calmly .
`` I know what you have come to say .
My son is drowned . ''
`` We do n't know THAT , Mrs. Carewe , '' said Abel Blair quickly .
`` We have n't got the worst to tell you -- there 's hope yet .
But Joe Raymond 's boat was found last night , stranded bottom up , on the Blue Point sand shore , forty miles down the coast . ''
`` Do n't look like that , Thyra , '' said Carl White pityingly .
`` They may have escaped -- they may have been picked up . ''
Thyra looked at him with dull eyes .
`` You know they have not .
Not one of you has any hope .
I have no son .
The sea has taken him from me -- my bonny baby ! ''
She turned and went back to her desolate home .
None dared to follow her .
Carl White went home and sent his wife over to her .
Cynthia found Thyra sitting in her accustomed chair .
Her hands lay , palms upward , on her lap .
Her eyes were dry and burning .
She met Cynthia 's compassionate look with a fearful smile .
`` Long ago , Cynthia White , '' she said slowly , `` you were vexed with me one day , and you told me that God would punish me yet , because I made an idol of my son , and set it up in His place .
Do you remember ?
Your word was a true one .
God saw that I loved Chester too much , and He meant to take him from me .
I thwarted one way when I made him give up Damaris .
But one ca n't fight against the Almighty .
It was decreed that I must lose him -- if not in one way , then in another .
He has been taken from me utterly .
I shall not even have his grave to tend , Cynthia . ''
`` As near to a mad woman as anything you ever saw , with her awful eyes , '' Cynthia told Carl , afterwards .
But she did not say so there .
Although she was a shallow , commonplace soul , she had her share of womanly sympathy , and her own life had not been free from suffering .
It taught her the right thing to do now .
She sat down by the stricken creature and put her arms about her , while she gathered the cold hands in her own warm clasp .
The tears filled her big , blue eyes and her voice trembled as she said : `` Thyra , I 'm sorry for you .
I -- I -- lost a child once -- my little first-born .
And Chester was a dear , good lad . ''
For a moment Thyra strained her small , tense body away from Cynthia 's embrace .
Then she shuddered and cried out .
The tears came , and she wept her agony out on the other woman 's breast .
As the ill news spread , other Avonlea women kept dropping in all through the day to condole with Thyra .
Many of them came in real sympathy , but some out of mere curiosity to see how she took it .
Thyra knew this , but she did not resent it , as she would once have done .
She listened very quietly to all the halting efforts at consolation , and the little platitudes with which they strove to cover the nakedness of bereavement .
When darkness came Cynthia said she must go home , but would send one of her girls over for the night .
`` You wo n't feel like staying alone , '' she said .
Thyra looked up steadily .
`` No .
But I want you to send for Damaris Garland . ''
`` Damaris Garland ! ''
Cynthia repeated the name as if disbelieving her own ears .
There was never any knowing what whim Thyra might take , but Cynthia had not expected this .
`` Yes .
Tell her I want her -- tell her she must come .
She must hate me bitterly ; but I am punished enough to satisfy even her hate .
Tell her to come to me for Chester 's sake . ''
Cynthia did as she was bid , she sent her daughter , Jeanette , for Damaris .
Then she waited .
No matter what duties were calling for her at home she must see the interview between Thyra and Damaris .
Her curiosity would be the last thing to fail Cynthia White .
She had done very well all day ; but it would be asking too much of her to expect that she would consider the meeting of these two women sacred from her eyes .
She half believed that Damaris would refuse to come .
But Damaris came .
Jeanette brought her in amid the fiery glow of a November sunset .
Thyra stood up , and for a moment they looked at each other .
The insolence of Damaris ' beauty was gone .
Her eyes were dull and heavy with weeping , her lips were pale , and her face had lost its laughter and dimples .
Only her hair , escaping from the shawl she had cast around it , gushed forth in warm splendor in the sunset light , and framed her wan face like the aureole of a Madonna .
Thyra looked upon her with a shock of remorse .
This was not the radiant creature she had met on the bridge that summer afternoon .
This -- this -- was HER work .
She held out her arms .
`` Oh , Damaris , forgive me .
We both loved him -- that must be a bond between us for life . ''
Damaris came forward and threw her arms about the older woman , lifting her face .
As their lips met even Cynthia White realized that she had no business there .
She vented the irritation of her embarrassment on the innocent Jeanette .
`` Come away , '' she whispered crossly .
`` Ca n't you see we 're not wanted here ? ''
She drew Jeanette out , leaving Thyra rocking Damaris in her arms , and crooning over her like a mother over her child .
When December had grown old Damaris was still with Thyra .
It was understood that she was to remain there for the winter , at least .
Thyra could not bear her to be out of her sight .
They talked constantly about Chester ; Thyra confessed all her anger and hatred .
Damaris had forgiven her ; but Thyra could never forgive herself .
She was greatly changed , and had grown very gentle and tender .
She even sent for August Vorst and begged him to pardon her for the way she had spoken to him .
Winter came late that year , and the season was a very open one .
There was no snow on the ground and , a month after Joe Raymond 's boat had been cast up on the Blue Point sand shore , Thyra , wandering about in her garden , found some pansies blooming under their tangled leaves .
She was picking them for Damaris when she heard a buggy rumble over the bridge and drive up the White lane , hidden from her sight by the alders and firs .
A few minutes later Carl and Cynthia came hastily across their yard under the huge balm-of-gileads .
Carl 's face was flushed , and his big body quivered with excitement .
Cynthia ran behind him , with tears rolling down her face .
Thyra felt herself growing sick with fear .
Had anything happened to Damaris ?
A glimpse of the girl , sewing by an upper window of the house , reassured her .
`` Oh , Thyra , Thyra ! ''
gasped Cynthia .
`` Can you stand some good news , Thyra ? ''
asked Carl , in a trembling voice .
`` Very , very good news ! ''
Thyra looked wildly from one to the other .
`` There 's but one thing you would dare to call good news to me , '' she cried .
`` Is it about -- about -- '' `` Chester !
Yes , it 's about Chester !
Thyra , he is alive -- he 's safe -- he and Joe , both of them , thank God !
Cynthia , catch her ! ''
`` No , I am not going to faint , '' said Thyra , steadying herself by Cynthia 's shoulder .
`` My son alive !
How did you hear ?
How did it happen ?
Where has he been ? ''
`` I heard it down at the harbor , Thyra .
Mike McCready 's vessel , the Nora Lee , was just in from the Magdalens .
Ches and Joe got capsized the night of the storm , but they hung on to their boat somehow , and at daybreak they were picked up by the Nora Lee , bound for Quebec .
But she was damaged by the storm and blown clear out of her course .
Had to put into the Magdalens for repairs , and has been there ever since .
The cable to the islands was out of order , and no vessels call there this time of year for mails .
If it had n't been an extra open season the Nora Lee would n't have got away , but would have had to stay there till spring .
You never saw such rejoicing as there was this morning at the harbor , when the Nora Lee came in , flying flags at the mast head . ''
`` And Chester -- where is he ? ''
demanded Thyra .
Carl and Cynthia looked at each other .
`` Well , Thyra , '' said the latter , `` the fact is , he 's over there in our yard this blessed minute .
Carl brought him home from the harbor , but I would n't let him come over until we had prepared you for it .
He 's waiting for you there . ''
Thyra made a quick step in the direction of the gate .
Then she turned , with a little of the glow dying out of her face .
`` No , there 's one has a better right to go to him first .
I can atone to him -- thank God , I can atone to him ! ''
She went into the house and called Damaris .
As the girl came down the stairs Thyra held out her hands with a wonderful light of joy and renunciation on her face .
`` Damaris , '' she said , `` Chester has come back to us -- the sea has given him back to us .
He is over at Carl White 's house .
Go to him , my daughter , and bring him to me ! ''
XI .
THE EDUCATION OF BETTY When Sara Currie married Jack Churchill I was broken-hearted ... or believed myself to be so , which , in a boy of twenty-two , amounts to pretty much the same thing .
Not that I took the world into my confidence ; that was never the Douglas way , and I held myself in honor bound to live up to the family traditions .
I thought , then , that nobody but Sara knew ; but I dare say , now , that Jack knew it also , for I do n't think Sara could have helped telling him .
If he did know , however , he did not let me see that he did , and never insulted me by any implied sympathy ; on the contrary , he asked me to be his best man .
Jack was always a thoroughbred .
I was best man .
Jack and I had always been bosom friends , and , although I had lost my sweetheart , I did not intend to lose my friend into the bargain .
Sara had made a wise choice , for Jack was twice the man I was ; he had had to work for his living , which perhaps accounts for it .
So I danced at Sara 's wedding as if my heart were as light as my heels ; but , after she and Jack had settled down at Glenby I closed The Maples and went abroad ... being , as I have hinted , one of those unfortunate mortals who need consult nothing but their own whims in the matter of time and money .
I stayed away for ten years , during which The Maples was given over to moths and rust , while I enjoyed life elsewhere .
I did enjoy it hugely , but always under protest , for I felt that a broken-hearted man ought not to enjoy himself as I did .
It jarred on my sense of fitness , and I tried to moderate my zest , and think more of the past than I did .
It was no use ; the present insisted on being intrusive and pleasant ; as for the future ... well , there was no future .
Then Jack Churchill , poor fellow , died .
A year after his death , I went home and again asked Sara to marry me , as in duty bound .
Sara again declined , alleging that her heart was buried in Jack 's grave , or words to that effect .
I found that it did not much matter ... of course , at thirty-two one does not take these things to heart as at twenty-two .
I had enough to occupy me in getting The Maples into working order , and beginning to educate Betty .
Betty was Sara 's ten year-old daughter , and she had been thoroughly spoiled .
That is to say , she had been allowed her own way in everything and , having inherited her father 's outdoor tastes , had simply run wild .
She was a thorough tomboy , a thin , scrawny little thing with a trace of Sara 's beauty .
Betty took after her father 's dark , tall race and , on the occasion of my first introduction to her , seemed to be all legs and neck .
There were points about her , though , which I considered promising .
She had fine , almond-shaped , hazel eyes , the smallest and most shapely hands and feet I ever saw , and two enormous braids of thick , nut-brown hair .
For Jack 's sake I decided to bring his daughter up properly .
Sara could n't do it , and did n't try .
I saw that , if somebody did n't take Betty in hand , wisely and firmly , she would certainly be ruined .
There seemed to be nobody except myself at all interested in the matter , so I determined to see what an old bachelor could do as regards bringing up a girl in the way she should go .
I might have been her father ; as it was , her father had been my best friend .
Who had a better right to watch over his daughter ?
I determined to be a father to Betty , and do all for her that the most devoted parent could do .
It was , self-evidently , my duty .
I told Sara I was going to take Betty in hand .
Sara sighed one of the plaintive little sighs which I had once thought so charming , but now , to my surprise , found faintly irritating , and said that she would be very much obliged if I would .
`` I feel that I am not able to cope with the problem of Betty 's education , Stephen , '' she admitted , `` Betty is a strange child ... all Churchill .
Her poor father indulged her in everything , and she has a will of her own , I assure you .
I have really no control over her , whatever .
She does as she pleases , and is ruining her complexion by running and galloping out of doors the whole time .
Not that she had much complexion to start with .
The Churchills never had , you know . ''
... Sara cast a complacent glance at her delicately tinted reflection in the mirror ... `` I tried to make Betty wear a sunbonnet this summer , but I might as well have talked to the wind . ''
A vision of Betty in a sunbonnet presented itself to my mind , and afforded me so much amusement that I was grateful to Sara for having furnished it .
I rewarded her with a compliment .
`` It is to be regretted that Betty has not inherited her mother 's charming color , '' I said , `` but we must do the best we can for her under her limitations .
She may have improved vastly by the time she has grown up .
And , at least , we must make a lady of her ; she is a most alarming tomboy at present , but there is good material to work upon ... there must be , in the Churchill and Currie blend .
But even the best material may be spoiled by unwise handling .
I think I can promise you that I will not spoil it .
I feel that Betty is my vocation ; and I shall set myself up as a rival of Wordsworth 's ` nature , ' of whose methods I have always had a decided distrust , in spite of his insidious verses . ''
Sara did not understand me in the least ; but , then , she did not pretend to .
`` I confide Betty 's education entirely to you , Stephen , '' she said , with another plaintive sigh .
`` I feel sure I could not put it into better hands .
You have always been a person who could be thoroughly depended on . ''
Well , that was something by way of reward for a life-long devotion .
I felt that I was satisfied with my position as unofficial advisor-in-chief to Sara and self-appointed guardian of Betty .
I also felt that , for the furtherance of the cause I had taken to heart , it was a good thing that Sara had again refused to marry me .
I had a sixth sense which informed me that a staid old family friend might succeed with Betty where a stepfather would have signally failed .
Betty 's loyalty to her father 's memory was passionate , and vehement ; she would view his supplanter with resentment and distrust ; but his old familiar comrade was a person to be taken to her heart .
Fortunately for the success of my enterprise , Betty liked me .
She told me this with the same engaging candor she would have used in informing me that she hated me , if she had happened to take a bias in that direction , saying frankly : `` You are one of the very nicest old folks I know , Stephen .
Yes , you are a ripping good fellow ! ''
This made my task a comparatively easy one ; I sometimes shudder to think what it might have been if Betty had not thought I was a `` ripping good fellow . ''
I should have stuck to it , because that is my way ; but Betty would have made my life a misery to me .
She had startling capacities for tormenting people when she chose to exert them ; I certainly should not have liked to be numbered among Betty 's foes .
I rode over to Glenby the next morning after my paternal interview with Sara , intending to have a frank talk with Betty and lay the foundations of a good understanding on both sides .
Betty was a sharp child , with a disconcerting knack of seeing straight through grindstones ; she would certainly perceive and probably resent any underhanded management .
I thought it best to tell her plainly that I was going to look after her .
When , however , I encountered Betty , tearing madly down the beech avenue with a couple of dogs , her loosened hair streaming behind her like a banner of independence , and had lifted her , hatless and breathless , up before me on my mare , I found that Sara had saved me the trouble of an explanation .
`` Mother says you are going to take charge of my education , Stephen , '' said Betty , as soon as she could speak .
`` I 'm glad , because I think that , for an old person , you have a good deal of sense .
I suppose my education has to be seen to , some time or other , and I 'd rather you 'd do it than anybody else I know . ''
`` Thank you , Betty , '' I said gravely .
`` I hope I shall deserve your good opinion of my sense .
I shall expect you to do as I tell you , and be guided by my advice in everything . ''
`` Yes , I will , '' said Betty , `` because I 'm sure you wo n't tell me to do anything I 'd really hate to do .
You wo n't shut me up in a room and make me sew , will you ?
Because I wo n't do it . ''
I assured her I would not .
`` Nor send me to a boarding-school , '' pursued Betty .
`` Mother 's always threatening to send me to one .
I suppose she would have done it before this , only she knew I 'd run away .
You wo n't send me to a boarding-school , will you , Stephen ?
Because I wo n't go . ''
`` No , '' I said obligingly .
`` I wo n't .
I should never dream of cooping a wild little thing , like you , up in a boarding-school .
You 'd fret your heart out like a caged skylark . ''
`` I know you and I are going to get along together splendidly , Stephen , '' said Betty , rubbing her brown cheek chummily against my shoulder .
`` You are so good at understanding .
Very few people are .
Even dad darling did n't understand .
He let me do just as I wanted to , just because I wanted to , not because he really understood that I could n't be tame and play with dolls .
I hate dolls !
Real live babies are jolly ; but dogs and horses are ever so much nicer than dolls . ''
`` But you must have lessons , Betty .
I shall select your teachers and superintend your studies , and I shall expect you to do me credit along that line , as well as along all others . ''
`` I 'll try , honest and true , Stephen , '' declared Betty .
And she kept her word .
At first I looked upon Betty 's education as a duty ; in a very short time it had become a pleasure ... the deepest and most abiding interest of my life .
As I had premised , Betty was good material , and responded to my training with gratifying plasticity .
Day by day , week by week , month by month , her character and temperament unfolded naturally under my watchful eye .
It was like beholding the gradual development of some rare flower in one 's garden .
A little checking and pruning here , a careful training of shoot and tendril there , and , lo , the reward of grace and symmetry !
Betty grew up as I would have wished Jack Churchill 's girl to grow -- spirited and proud , with the fine spirit and gracious pride of pure womanhood , loyal and loving , with the loyalty and love of a frank and unspoiled nature ; true to her heart 's core , hating falsehood and sham -- as crystal-clear a mirror of maidenhood as ever man looked into and saw himself reflected back in such a halo as made him ashamed of not being more worthy of it .
Betty was kind enough to say that I had taught her everything she knew .
But what had she not taught me ?
If there were a debt between us , it was on my side .
Sara was fairly well satisfied .
It was not my fault that Betty was not better looking , she said .
I had certainly done everything for her mind and character that could be done .
Sara 's manner implied that these unimportant details did not count for much , balanced against the lack of a pink-and-white skin and dimpled elbows ; but she was generous enough not to blame me .
`` When Betty is twenty-five , '' I said patiently -- I had grown used to speaking patiently to Sara -- `` she will be a magnificent woman -- far handsomer than you ever were , Sara , in your pinkest and whitest prime .
Where are your eyes , my dear lady , that you ca n't see the promise of loveliness in Betty ? ''
`` Betty is seventeen , and she is as lanky and brown as ever she was , '' sighed Sara .
`` When I was seventeen I was the belle of the county and had had five proposals .
I do n't believe the thought of a lover has ever entered Betty 's head . ''
`` I hope not , '' I said shortly .
Somehow , I did not like the suggestion .
`` Betty is a child yet .
For pity 's sake , Sara , do n't go putting nonsensical ideas into her head . ''
`` I 'm afraid I ca n't , '' mourned Sara , as if it were something to be regretted .
`` You have filled it too full of books and things like that .
I 've every confidence in your judgment , Stephen -- and really you 've done wonders with Betty .
But do n't you think you 've made her rather too clever ?
Men do n't like women who are too clever .
Her poor father , now -- he always said that a woman who liked books better than beaux was an unnatural creature . ''
I did n't believe Jack had ever said anything so foolish .
Sara imagined things .
But I resented the aspersion of blue-stockingness cast on Betty .
`` When the time comes for Betty to be interested in beaux , '' I said severely , `` she will probably give them all due attention .
Just at present her head is a great deal better filled with books than with silly premature fancies and sentimentalities .
I 'm a critical old fellow -- but I 'm satisfied with Betty , Sara -- perfectly satisfied . ''
Sara sighed .
`` Oh , I dare say she is all right , Stephen .
And I 'm really grateful to you .
I 'm sure I could have done nothing at all with her .
It 's not your fault , of course , -- but I ca n't help wishing she were a little more like other girls . ''
I galloped away from Glenby in a rage .
What a blessing Sara had not married me in my absurd youth !
She would have driven me wild with her sighs and her obtuseness and her everlasting pink-and-whiteness .
But there -- there -- there -- gently !
She was a sweet , good-hearted little woman ; she had made Jack happy ; and she had contrived , heaven only knew how , to bring a rare creature like Betty into the world .
For that , much might be forgiven her .
By the time I reached The Maples and had flung myself down in an old , kinky , comfortable chair in my library I had forgiven her and was even paying her the compliment of thinking seriously over what she had said .
Was Betty really unlike other girls ?
That is to say , unlike them in any respect wherein she should resemble them ?
I did not wish this ; although I was a crusty old bachelor I approved of girls , holding them the sweetest things the good God has made .
I wanted Betty to have her full complement of girlhood in all its best and highest manifestation .
Was there anything lacking ?
I observed Betty very closely during the next week or so , riding over to Glenby every day and riding back at night , meditating upon my observations .
Eventually I concluded to do what I had never thought myself in the least likely to do .
I would send Betty to a boarding-school for a year .
It was necessary that she should learn how to live with other girls .
I went over to Glenby the next day and found Betty under the beeches on the lawn , just back from a canter .
She was sitting on the dappled mare I had given her on her last birthday , and was laughing at the antics of her rejoicing dogs around her .
I looked at her with much pleasure ; it gladdened me to see how much , nay , how totally a child she still was , despite her Churchill height .
Her hair , under her velvet cap , still hung over her shoulders in the same thick plaits ; her face had the firm leanness of early youth , but its curves were very fine and delicate .
The brown skin , that worried Sara so , was flushed through with dusky color from her gallop ; her long , dark eyes were filled with the beautiful unconsciousness of childhood .
More than all , the soul in her was still the soul of a child .
I found myself wishing that it could always remain so .
But I knew it could not ; the woman must blossom out some day ; it was my duty to see that the flower fulfilled the promise of the bud .
When I told Betty that she must go away to a school for a year , she shrugged , frowned and consented .
Betty had learned that she must consent to what I decreed , even when my decrees were opposed to her likings , as she had once fondly believed they never would be .
But Betty had acquired confidence in me to the beautiful extent of acquiescing in everything I commanded .
`` I 'll go , of course , since you wish it , Stephen , '' she said .
`` But why do you want me to go ?
You must have a reason -- you always have a reason for anything you do .
What is it ? ''
`` That is for you to find out , Betty , '' I said .
`` By the time you come back you will have discovered it , I think .
If not , it will not have proved itself a good reason and shall be forgotten . ''
When Betty went away I bade her good-by without burdening her with any useless words of advice .
`` Write to me every week , and remember that you are Betty Churchill , '' I said .
Betty was standing on the steps above , among her dogs .
She came down a step and put her arms about my neck .
`` I 'll remember that you are my friend and that I must live up to you , '' she said .
`` Good-by , Stephen . ''
She kissed me two or three times -- good , hearty smacks !
did I not say she was still a child ?
-- and stood waving her hand to me as I rode away .
I looked back at the end of the avenue and saw her standing there , short-skirted and hatless , fronting the lowering sun with those fearless eyes of hers .
So I looked my last on the child Betty .
That was a lonely year .
My occupation was gone and I began to fear that I had outlived my usefulness .
Life seemed flat , stale , and unprofitable .
Betty 's weekly letters were all that lent it any savor .
They were spicy and piquant enough .
Betty was discovered to have unsuspected talents in the epistolary line .
At first she was dolefully homesick , and begged me to let her come home .
When I refused -- it was amazingly hard to refuse -- she sulked through three letters , then cheered up and began to enjoy herself .
But it was nearly the end of the year when she wrote : `` I 've found out why you sent me here , Stephen -- and I 'm glad you did . ''
I had to be away from home on unavoidable business the day Betty returned to Glenby .
But the next afternoon I went over .
I found Betty out and Sara in .
The latter was beaming .
Betty was so much improved , she declared delightedly .
I would hardly know `` the dear child . ''
This alarmed me terribly .
What on earth had they done to Betty ?
I found that she had gone up to the pineland for a walk , and thither I betook myself speedily .
When I saw her coming down a long , golden-brown alley I stepped behind a tree to watch her -- I wished to see her , myself unseen .
As she drew near I gazed at her with pride , and admiration and amazement -- and , under it all , a strange , dreadful , heart-sinking , which I could not understand and which I had never in all my life experienced before -- no , not even when Sara had refused me .
Betty was a woman !
Not by virtue of the simple white dress that clung to her tall , slender figure , revealing lines of exquisite grace and litheness ; not by virtue of the glossy masses of dark brown hair heaped high on her head and held there in wonderful shining coils ; not by virtue of added softness of curve and daintiness of outline ; not because of all these , but because of the dream and wonder and seeking in her eyes .
She was a woman , looking , all unconscious of her quest , for love .
The understanding of the change in her came home to me with a shock that must have left me , I think , something white about the lips .
I was glad .
She was what I had wished her to become .
But I wanted the child Betty back ; this womanly Betty seemed far away from me .
I stepped out into the path and she saw me , with a brightening of her whole face .
She did not rush forward and fling herself into my arms as she would have done a year ago ; but she came towards me swiftly , holding out her hand .
I had thought her slightly pale when I had first seen her ; but now I concluded I had been mistaken , for there was a wonderful sunrise of color in her face .
I took her hand -- there were no kisses this time .
`` Welcome home , Betty , '' I said .
`` Oh , Stephen , it is so good to be back , '' she breathed , her eyes shining .
She did not say it was good to see me again , as I had hoped she would do .
Indeed , after the first minute of greeting , she seemed a trifle cool and distant .
We walked for an hour in the pine wood and talked .
Betty was brilliant , witty , self-possessed , altogether charming .
I thought her perfect and yet my heart ached .
What a glorious young thing she was , in that splendid youth of hers !
What a prize for some lucky man -- confound the obtrusive thought !
No doubt we should soon be overrun at Glenby with lovers .
I should stumble over some forlorn youth at every step !
Well , what of it ?
Betty would marry , of course .
It would be my duty to see that she got a good husband , worthy of her as men go .
I thought I preferred the old duty of superintending her studies .
But there , it was all the same thing -- merely a post-graduate course in applied knowledge .
When she began to learn life 's greatest lesson of love , I , the tried and true old family friend and mentor , must be on hand to see that the teacher was what I would have him be , even as I had formerly selected her instructor in French and botany .
Then , and not until then , would Betty 's education be complete .
I rode home very soberly .
When I reached The Maples I did what I had not done for years ... looked critically at myself in the mirror .
The realization that I had grown older came home to me with a new and unpleasant force .
There were marked lines on my lean face , and silver glints in the dark hair over my temples .
When Betty was ten she had thought me `` an old person . ''
Now , at eighteen , she probably thought me a veritable ancient of days .
Pshaw , what did it matter ?
And yet ... I thought of her as I had seen her , standing under the pines , and something cold and painful laid its hand on my heart .
My premonitions as to lovers proved correct .
Glenby was soon infested with them .
Heaven knows where they all came from .
I had not supposed there was a quarter as many young men in the whole county ; but there they were .
Sara was in the seventh heaven of delight .
Was not Betty at last a belle ?
As for the proposals ... well , Betty never counted her scalps in public ; but every once in a while a visiting youth dropped out and was seen no more at Glenby .
One could guess what that meant .
Betty apparently enjoyed all this .
I grieve to say that she was a bit of a coquette .
I tried to cure her of this serious defect , but for once I found that I had undertaken something I could not accomplish .
In vain I lectured , Betty only laughed ; in vain I gravely rebuked , Betty only flirted more vivaciously than before .
Men might come and men might go , but Betty went on forever .
I endured this sort of thing for a year and then I decided that it was time to interfere seriously .
I must find a husband for Betty ... my fatherly duty would not be fulfilled until I had ... nor , indeed , my duty to society .
She was not a safe person to have running at large .
None of the men who haunted Glenby was good enough for her .
I decided that my nephew , Frank , would do very well .
He was a capital young fellow , handsome , clean-souled , and whole-hearted .
From a worldly point of view he was what Sara would have termed an excellent match ; he had money , social standing and a rising reputation as a clever young lawyer .
Yes , he should have Betty , confound him !
They had never met .
I set the wheels going at once .
The sooner all the fuss was over the better .
I hated fuss and there was bound to be a good deal of it .
But I went about the business like an accomplished matchmaker .
I invited Frank to visit The Maples and , before he came , I talked much ... but not too much ... of him to Betty , mingling judicious praise and still more judicious blame together .
Women never like a paragon .
Betty heard me with more gravity than she usually accorded to my dissertations on young men .
She even condescended to ask several questions about him .
This I thought a good sign .
To Frank I had said not a word about Betty ; when he came to The Maples I took him over to Glenby and , coming upon Betty wandering about among the beeches in the sunset , I introduced him without any warning .
He would have been more than mortal if he had not fallen in love with her upon the spot .
It was not in the heart of man to resist her ... that dainty , alluring bit of womanhood .
She was all in white , with flowers in her hair , and , for a moment , I could have murdered Frank or any other man who dared to commit the sacrilege of loving her .
Then I pulled myself together and left them alone .
I might have gone in and talked to Sara ... two old folks gently reviewing their youth while the young folks courted outside ... but I did not .
I prowled about the pine wood , and tried to forget how blithe and handsome that curly-headed boy , Frank , was , and what a flash had sprung into his eyes when he had seen Betty .
Well , what of it ?
Was not that what I had brought him there for ?
And was I not pleased at the success of my scheme ?
Certainly I was !
Delighted !
Next day Frank went to Glenby without even making the poor pretense of asking me to accompany him .
I spent the time of his absence overseeing the construction of a new greenhouse I was having built .
I was conscientious in my supervision ; but I felt no interest in it .
The place was intended for roses , and roses made me think of the pale yellow ones Betty had worn at her breast one evening the week before , when , all lovers being unaccountably absent , we had wandered together under the pines and talked as in the old days before her young womanhood and my gray hairs had risen up to divide us .
She had dropped a rose on the brown floor , and I had sneaked back , after I had left her the house , to get it , before I went home .
I had it now in my pocket-book .
Confound it , might n't a future uncle cherish a family affection for his prospective niece ?
Frank 's wooing seemed to prosper .
The other young sparks , who had haunted Glenby , faded away after his advent .
Betty treated him with most encouraging sweetness ; Sara smiled on him ; I stood in the background , like a benevolent god of the machine , and flattered myself that I pulled the strings .
At the end of a month something went wrong .
Frank came home from Glenby one day in the dumps , and moped for two whole days .
I rode down myself on the third .
I had not gone much to Glenby that month ; but , if there were trouble Bettyward , it was my duty to make smooth the rough places .
As usual , I found Betty in the pineland .
I thought she looked rather pale and dull ... fretting about Frank no doubt .
She brightened up when she saw me , evidently expecting that I had come to straighten matters out ; but she pretended to be haughty and indifferent .
`` I am glad you have n't forgotten us altogether , Stephen , '' she said coolly .
`` You have n't been down for a week . ''
`` I 'm flattered that you noticed it , '' I said , sitting down on a fallen tree and looking up at her as she stood , tall and lithe , against an old pine , with her eyes averted .
`` I should n't have supposed you 'd want an old fogy like myself poking about and spoiling the idyllic moments of love 's young dream . ''
`` Why do you always speak of yourself as old ? ''
said Betty , crossly , ignoring my reference to Frank .
`` Because I am old , my dear .
Witness these gray hairs . ''
I pushed up my hat to show them the more recklessly .
Betty barely glanced at them .
`` You have just enough to give you a distinguished look , '' she said , `` and you are only forty .
A man is in his prime at forty .
He never has any sense until he is forty -- and sometimes he does n't seem to have any even then , '' she concluded impertinently .
My heart beat .
Did Betty suspect ?
Was that last sentence meant to inform me that she was aware of my secret folly , and laughed at it ?
`` I came over to see what has gone wrong between you and Frank , '' I said gravely .
Betty bit her lips .
`` Nothing , '' she said .
`` Betty , '' I said reproachfully , `` I brought you up ... or endeavored to bring you up ... to speak the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth .
Do n't tell me I have failed .
I 'll give you another chance .
Have you quarreled with Frank ? ''
`` No , '' said the maddening Betty , `` HE quarreled with me .
He went away in a temper and I do not care if he never comes back ! ''
I shook my head .
`` This wo n't do , Betty .
As your old family friend I still claim the right to scold you until you have a husband to do the scolding .
You must n't torment Frank .
He is too fine a fellow .
You must marry him , Betty . ''
`` Must I ? ''
said Betty , a dusky red flaming out on her cheek .
She turned her eyes on me in a most disconcerting fashion .
`` Do YOU wish me to marry Frank , Stephen ? ''
Betty had a wretched habit of emphasizing pronouns in a fashion calculated to rattle anybody .
`` Yes , I do wish it , because I think it will be best for you , '' I replied , without looking at her .
`` You must marry some time , Betty , and Frank is the only man I know to whom I could trust you .
As your guardian , I have an interest in seeing you well and wisely settled for life .
You have always taken my advice and obeyed my wishes ; and you 've always found my way the best , in the long run , have n't you , Betty ?
You wo n't prove rebellious now , I 'm sure .
You know quite well that I am advising you for your own good .
Frank is a splendid young fellow , who loves you with all his heart .
Marry him , Betty .
Mind , I do n't COMMAND .
I have no right to do that , and you are too old to be ordered about , if I had .
But I wish and advise it .
Is n't that enough , Betty ? ''
I had been looking away from her all the time I was talking , gazing determinedly down a sunlit vista of pines .
Every word I said seemed to tear my heart , and come from my lips stained with life-blood .
Yes , Betty should marry Frank !
But , good God , what would become of me !
Betty left her station under the pine tree , and walked around me until she got right in front of my face .
I could n't help looking at her , for if I moved my eyes she moved too .
There was nothing meek or submissive about her ; her head was held high , her eyes were blazing , and her cheeks were crimson .
But her words were meek enough .
`` I will marry Frank if you wish it , Stephen , '' she said .
`` You are my friend .
I have never crossed your wishes , and , as you say , I have never regretted being guided by them .
I will do exactly as you wish in this case also , I promise you that .
But , in so solemn a question , I must be very certain what you DO wish .
There must be no doubt in my mind or heart .
Look me squarely in the eyes , Stephen -- as you have n't done once to-day , no , nor once since I came home from school -- and , so looking , tell me that you wish me to marry Frank Douglas and I will do it !
DO you , Stephen ? ''
I had to look her in the eyes , since nothing else would do her ; and , as I did so , all the might of manhood in me rose up in hot revolt against the lie I would have told her .
That unfaltering , impelling gaze of hers drew the truth from my lips in spite of myself .
`` No , I do n't wish you to marry Frank Douglas , a thousand times no ! ''
I said passionately .
`` I do n't wish you to marry any man on earth but myself .
I love you -- I love you , Betty .
You are dearer to me than life -- dearer to me than my own happiness .
It was your happiness I thought of -- and so I asked you to marry Frank because I believed he would make you a happy woman .
That is all ! ''
Betty 's defiance went from her like a flame blown out .
She turned away and drooped her proud head .
`` It could not have made me a happy woman to marry one man , loving another , '' she said , in a whisper .
I got up and went over to her .
`` Betty , whom do you love ? ''
I asked , also in a whisper .
`` You , '' she murmured meekly -- oh , so meekly , my proud little girl !
`` Betty , '' I said brokenly , `` I 'm old -- too old for you -- I 'm more than twenty years your senior -- I 'm -- '' `` Oh ! ''
Betty wheeled around on me and stamped her foot .
`` Do n't mention your age to me again .
I do n't care if you 're as old as Methuselah .
But I 'm not going to coax you to marry me , sir !
If you wo n't , I 'll never marry anybody -- I 'll live and die an old maid .
You can please yourself , of course ! ''
She turned away , half-laughing , half-crying ; but I caught her in my arms and crushed her sweet lips against mine .
`` Betty , I 'm the happiest man in the world -- and I was the most miserable when I came here . ''
`` You deserved to be , '' said Betty cruelly .
`` I 'm glad you were .
Any man as stupid as you deserves to be unhappy .
What do you think I felt like , loving you with all my heart , and seeing you simply throwing me at another man 's head .
Why , I 've always loved you , Stephen ; but I did n't know it until I went to that detestable school .
Then I found out -- and I thought that was why you had sent me .
But , when I came home , you almost broke my heart .
That was why I flirted so with all those poor , nice boys -- I wanted to hurt you but I never thought I succeeded .
You just went on being FATHERLY .
Then , when you brought Frank here , I almost gave up hope ; and I tried to make up my mind to marry him ; I should have done it if you had insisted .
But I had to have one more try for happiness first .
I had just one little hope to inspire me with sufficient boldness .
I saw you , that night , when you came back here and picked up my rose !
I had come back , myself , to be alone and unhappy . ''
`` It is the most wonderful thing that ever happened -- that you should love me , '' I said .
`` It 's not -- I could n't help it , '' said Betty , nestling her brown head on my shoulder .
`` You taught me everything else , Stephen , so nobody but you could teach me how to love .
You 've made a thorough thing of educating me . ''
`` When will you marry me , Betty ? ''
I asked .
`` As soon as I can fully forgive you for trying to make me marry somebody else , '' said Betty .
It was rather hard lines on Frank , when you come to think of it .
But , such is the selfishness of human nature that we did n't think much about Frank .
The young fellow behaved like the Douglas he was .
Went a little white about the lips when I told him , wished me all happiness , and went quietly away , `` gentleman unafraid . ''
He has since married and is , I understand , very happy .
Not as happy as I am , of course ; that is impossible , because there is only one Betty in the world , and she is my wife .
XII .
IN HER SELFLESS MOOD The raw wind of an early May evening was puffing in and out the curtains of the room where Naomi Holland lay dying .
The air was moist and chill , but the sick woman would not have the window closed .
`` I ca n't get my breath if you shut everything up so tight , '' she said .
`` Whatever comes , I ai n't going to be smothered to death , Car ` line Holland . ''
Outside of the window grew a cherry tree , powdered with moist buds with the promise of blossoms she would not live to see .
Between its boughs she saw a crystal cup of sky over hills that were growing dim and purple .
The outside air was full of sweet , wholesome springtime sounds that drifted in fitfully .
There were voices and whistles in the barnyard , and now and then faint laughter .
A bird alighted for a moment on a cherry bough , and twittered restlessly .
Naomi knew that white mists were hovering in the silent hollows , that the maple at the gate wore a misty blossom red , and that violet stars were shining bluely on the brooklands .
The room was a small , plain one .
The floor was bare , save for a couple of braided rugs , the plaster discolored , the walls dingy and glaring .
There had never been much beauty in Naomi Holland 's environment , and , now that she was dying , there was even less .
At the open window a boy of about ten years was leaning out over the sill and whistling .
He was tall for his age , and beautiful -- the hair a rich auburn with a glistening curl in it , skin very white and warm-tinted , eyes small and of a greenish blue , with dilated pupils and long lashes .
He had a weak chin , and a full , sullen mouth .
The bed was in the corner farthest from the window ; on it the sick woman , in spite of the pain that was her portion continually , was lying as quiet and motionless as she had done ever since she had lain down upon it for the last time .
Naomi Holland never complained ; when the agony was at its worst , she shut her teeth more firmly over her bloodless lip , and her great black eyes glared at the blank wall before in a way that gave her attendants what they called `` the creeps , '' but no word or moan escaped her .
Between the paroxysms she kept up her keen interest in the life that went on about her .
Nothing escaped her sharp , alert eyes and ears .
This evening she lay spent on the crumpled pillows ; she had had a bad spell in the afternoon and it had left her very weak .
In the dim light her extremely long face looked corpse-like already .
Her black hair lay in a heavy braid over the pillow and down the counterpane .
It was all that was left of her beauty , and she took a fierce joy in it .
Those long , glistening , sinuous tresses must be combed and braided every day , no matter what came .
A girl of fourteen was curled up on a chair at the head of the bed , with her head resting on the pillow .
The boy at the window was her half-brother ; but , between Christopher Holland and Eunice Carr , not the slightest resemblance existed .
Presently the sibilant silence was broken by a low , half-strangled sob .
The sick woman , who had been watching a white evening star through the cherry boughs , turned impatiently at the sound .
`` I wish you 'd get over that , Eunice , '' she said sharply .
`` I do n't want any one crying over me until I 'm dead ; and then you 'll have plenty else to do , most likely .
If it was n't for Christopher I would n't be anyways unwilling to die .
When one has had such a life as I 've had , there is n't much in death to be afraid of .
Only , a body would like to go right off , and not die by inches , like this .
` Tai n't fair ! ''
She snapped out the last sentence as if addressing some unseen , tyrannical presence ; her voice , at least , had not weakened , but was as clear and incisive as ever .
The boy at the window stopped whistling , and the girl silently wiped her eyes on her faded gingham apron .
Naomi drew her own hair over her lips , and kissed it .
`` You 'll never have hair like that , Eunice , '' she said .
`` It does seem most too pretty to bury , does n't it ?
Mind you see that it is fixed nice when I 'm laid out .
Comb it right up on my head and braid it there . ''
A sound , such as might be wrung from a suffering animal , came from the girl , but at the same moment the door opened and a woman entered .
`` Chris , '' she said sharply , `` you get right off for the cows , you lazy little scamp !
You knew right well you had to go for them , and here you 've been idling , and me looking high and low for you .
Make haste now ; it 's ridiculous late . ''
The boy pulled in his head and scowled at his aunt , but he dared not disobey , and went out slowly with a sulky mutter .
His aunt subdued a movement , that might have developed into a sound box on his ears , with a rather frightened glance at the bed .
Naomi Holland was spent and dying , but her temper was still a thing to hold in dread , and her sister-in-law did not choose to rouse it by slapping Christopher .
To her and her co-nurse the spasms of rage , which the sick woman sometimes had , seemed to partake of the nature of devil possession .
The last one , only three days before , had been provoked by Christopher 's complaint of some real or fancied ill-treatment from his aunt , and the latter had no mind to bring on another .
She went over to the bed , and straightened the clothes .
`` Sarah and I are going out to milk , Naomi , Eunice will stay with you .
She can run for us if you feel another spell coming on . ''
Naomi Holland looked up at her sister-in-law with something like malicious enjoyment .
`` I ai n't going to have any more spells , Car ` line Anne .
I 'm going to die to-night .
But you need n't hurry milking for that , at all .
I 'll take my time . ''
She liked to see the alarm that came over the other woman 's face .
It was richly worth while to scare Caroline Holland like that .
`` Are you feeling worse , Naomi ? ''
asked the latter shakily .
`` If you are I 'll send for Charles to go for the doctor . ''
`` No , you wo n't .
What good can the doctor do me ?
I do n't want either his or Charles ' permission to die .
You can go and milk at your ease .
I wo n't die till you 're done -- I wo n't deprive you of the pleasure of seeing me . ''
Mrs. Holland shut her lips and went out of the room with a martyr-like expression .
In some ways Naomi Holland was not an exacting patient , but she took her satisfaction out in the biting , malicious speeches she never failed to make .
Even on her death-bed her hostility to her sister-in-law had to find vent .
Outside , at the steps , Sarah Spencer was waiting , with the milk pails over her arm .
Sarah Spencer had no fixed abiding place , but was always to be found where there was illness .
Her experience , and an utter lack of nerves , made her a good nurse .
She was a tall , homely woman with iron gray hair and a lined face .
Beside her , the trim little Caroline Anne , with her light step and round , apple-red face , looked almost girlish .
The two women walked to the barnyard , discussing Naomi in undertones as they went .
The house they had left behind grew very still .
In Naomi Holland 's room the shadows were gathering .
Eunice timidly bent over her mother .
`` Ma , do you want the light lit ? ''
`` No , I 'm watching that star just below the big cherry bough .
I 'll see it set behind the hill .
I 've seen it there , off and on , for twelve years , and now I 'm taking a good-by look at it .
I want you to keep still , too .
I 've got a few things to think over , and I do n't want to be disturbed . ''
The girl lifted herself about noiselessly and locked her hands over the bed-post .
Then she laid her face down on them , biting at them silently until the marks of her teeth showed white against their red roughness .
Naomi Holland did not notice her .
She was looking steadfastly at the great , pearl-like sparkle in the faint-hued sky .
When it finally disappeared from her vision she struck her long , thin hands together twice , and a terrible expression came over her face for a moment .
But , when she spoke , her voice was quite calm .
`` You can light the candle now , Eunice .
Put it up on the shelf here , where it wo n't shine in my eyes .
And then sit down on the foot of the bed where I can see you .
I 've got something to say to you . ''
Eunice obeyed her noiselessly .
As the pallid light shot up , it revealed the child plainly .
She was thin and ill-formed -- one shoulder being slightly higher than the other .
She was dark , like her mother , but her features were irregular , and her hair fell in straggling , dim locks about her face .
Her eyes were a dark brown , and over one was the slanting red scar of a birth mark .
Naomi Holland looked at her with the contempt she had never made any pretense of concealing .
The girl was bone of her bone and flesh of her flesh , but she had never loved her ; all the mother love in her had been lavished on her son .
When Eunice had placed the candle on the shelf and drawn down the ugly blue paper blinds , shutting out the strips of violet sky where a score of glimmering points were now visible , she sat down on the foot of the bed , facing her mother .
`` The door is shut , is it , Eunice ? ''
Eunice nodded .
`` Because I do n't want Car ` line or any one else peeking and harking to what I 've got to say .
She 's out milking now , and I must make the most of the chance .
Eunice , I 'm going to die , and ... '' `` Ma ! ''
`` There now , no taking on !
You knew it had to come sometime soon .
I have n't the strength to talk much , so I want you just to be quiet and listen .
I ai n't feeling any pain now , so I can think and talk pretty clear .
Are you listening , Eunice ? ''
`` Yes , ma . ''
`` Mind you are .
It 's about Christopher .
It has n't been out of my mind since I laid down here .
I 've fought for a year to live , on his account , and it ai n't any use .
I must just die and leave him , and I do n't know what he 'll do .
It 's dreadful to think of . ''
She paused , and struck her shrunken hand sharply against the table .
`` If he was bigger and could look out for himself it would n't be so bad .
But he is only a little fellow , and Car ` line hates him .
You 'll both have to live with her until you 're grown up .
She 'll put on him and abuse him .
He 's like his father in some ways ; he 's got a temper and he is stubborn .
He 'll never get on with Car ` line .
Now , Eunice , I 'm going to get you to promise to take my place with Christopher when I 'm dead , as far as you can .
You 've got to ; it 's your duty .
But I want you to promise . ''
`` I will , ma , '' whispered the girl solemnly .
`` You have n't much force -- you never had .
If you was smart , you could do a lot for him .
But you 'll have to do your best .
I want you to promise me faithfully that you 'll stand by him and protect him -- that you wo n't let people impose on him ; that you 'll never desert him as long as he needs you , no matter what comes .
Eunice , promise me this ! ''
In her excitement the sick woman raised herself up in the bed , and clutched the girl 's thin arm .
Her eyes were blazing and two scarlet spots glowed in her thin cheeks .
Eunice 's face was white and tense .
She clasped her hands as one in prayer .
`` Mother , I promise it ! ''
Naomi relaxed her grip on the girl 's arm and sank back exhausted on the pillow .
A death-like look came over her face as the excitement faded .
`` My mind is easier now .
But if I could only have lived another year or two !
And I hate Car ` line -- hate her !
Eunice , do n't you ever let her abuse my boy !
If she did , or if you neglected him , I 'd come back from my grave to you !
As for the property , things will be pretty straight .
I 've seen to that .
There 'll be no squabbling and doing Christopher out of his rights .
He 's to have the farm as soon as he 's old enough to work it , and he 's to provide for you .
And , Eunice , remember what you 've promised ! ''
Outside , in the thickly gathering dusk , Caroline Holland and Sarah Spencer were at the dairy , straining the milk into creamers , for which Christopher was sullenly pumping water .
The house was far from the road , up to which a long red lane led ; across the field was the old Holland homestead where Caroline lived ; her unmarried sister-in-law , Electa Holland , kept house for her while she waited on Naomi .
It was her night to go home and sleep , but Naomi 's words haunted her , although she believed they were born of pure `` cantankerousness . ''
`` You 'd better go in and look at her , Sarah , '' she said , as she rinsed out the pails .
`` If you think I 'd better stay here to-night , I will .
If the woman was like anybody else a body would know what to do ; but , if she thought she could scare us by saying she was going to die , she 'd say it . ''
When Sarah went in , the sick room was very quiet .
In her opinion , Naomi was no worse than usual , and she told Caroline so ; but the latter felt vaguely uneasy and concluded to stay .
Naomi was as cool and defiant as customary .
She made them bring Christopher in to say good-night and had him lifted up on the bed to kiss her .
Then she held him back and looked at him admiringly -- at the bright curls and rosy cheeks and round , firm limbs .
The boy was uncomfortable under her gaze and squirmed hastily down .
Her eyes followed him greedily , as he went out .
When the door closed behind him , she groaned .
Sarah Spencer was startled .
She had never heard Naomi Holland groan since she had come to wait on her .
`` Are you feeling any worse , Naomi ?
Is the pain coming back ? ''
`` No .
Go and tell Car ` line to give Christopher some of that grape jelly on his bread before he goes to bed .
She 'll find it in the cupboard under the stairs . ''
Presently the house grew very still .
Caroline had dropped asleep on the sitting-room lounge , across the hall .
Sarah Spencer nodded over her knitting by the table in the sick room .
She had told Eunice to go to bed , but the child refused .
She still sat huddled up on the foot of the bed , watching her mother 's face intently .
Naomi appeared to sleep .
The candle burned long , and the wick was crowned by a little cap of fiery red that seemed to watch Eunice like some impish goblin .
The wavering light cast grotesque shadows of Sarah Spencer 's head on the wall .
The thin curtains at the window wavered to and fro , as if shaken by ghostly hands .
At midnight Naomi Holland opened her eyes .
The child she had never loved was the only one to go with her to the brink of the Unseen .
`` Eunice -- remember ! ''
It was the faintest whisper .
The soul , passing over the threshold of another life , strained back to its only earthly tie .
A quiver passed over the long , pallid face .
A horrible scream rang through the silent house .
Sarah Spencer sprang out of her doze in consternation , and gazed blankly at the shrieking child .
Caroline came hurrying in with distended eyes .
On the bed Naomi Holland lay dead .
In the room where she had died Naomi Holland lay in her coffin .
It was dim and hushed ; but , in the rest of the house , the preparations for the funeral were being hurried on .
Through it all Eunice moved , calm and silent .
Since her one wild spasm of screaming by her mother 's death-bed she had shed no tear , given no sign of grief .
Perhaps , as her mother had said , she had no time .
There was Christopher to be looked after .
The boy 's grief was stormy and uncontrolled .
He had cried until he was utterly exhausted .
It was Eunice who soothed him , coaxed him to eat , kept him constantly by her .
At night she took him to her own room and watched over him while he slept .
When the funeral was over the household furniture was packed away or sold .
The house was locked up and the farm rented .
There was nowhere for the children to go , save to their uncle 's .
Caroline Holland did not want them , but , having to take them , she grimly made up her mind to do what she considered her duty by them .
She had five children of her own and between them and Christopher a standing feud had existed from the time he could walk .
She had never liked Naomi .
Few people did .
Benjamin Holland had not married until late in life , and his wife had declared war on his family at sight .
She was a stranger in Avonlea , -- a widow , with a three year-old child .
She made few friends , as some people always asserted that she was not in her right mind .
Within a year of her second marriage Christopher was born , and from the hour of his birth his mother had worshiped him blindly .
He was her only solace .
For him she toiled and pinched and saved .
Benjamin Holland had not been `` fore-handed '' when she married him ; but , when he died , six years after his marriage , he was a well-to-do man .
Naomi made no pretense of mourning for him .
It was an open secret that they had quarreled like the proverbial cat and dog .
Charles Holland and his wife had naturally sided with Benjamin , and Naomi fought her battles single-handed .
After her husband 's death , she managed to farm alone , and made it pay .
When the mysterious malady which was to end her life first seized on her she fought against it with all the strength and stubbornness of her strong and stubborn nature .
Her will won for her an added year of life , and then she had to yield .
She tasted all the bitterness of death the day on which she lay down on her bed , and saw her enemy come in to rule her house .
But Caroline Holland was not a bad or unkind woman .
True , she did not love Naomi or her children ; but the woman was dying and must be looked after for the sake of common humanity .
Caroline thought she had done well by her sister-in-law .
When the red clay was heaped over Naomi 's grave in the Avonlea burying ground , Caroline took Eunice and Christopher home with her .
Christopher did not want to go ; it was Eunice who reconciled him .
He clung to her with an exacting affection born of loneliness and grief .
In the days that followed Caroline Holland was obliged to confess to herself that there would have been no doing anything with Christopher had it not been for Eunice .
The boy was sullen and obstinate , but his sister had an unfailing influence over him .
In Charles Holland 's household no one was allowed to eat the bread of idleness .
His own children were all girls , and Christopher came in handy as a chore boy .
He was made to work -- perhaps too hard .
But Eunice helped him , and did half his work for him when nobody knew .
When he quarreled with his cousins , she took his part ; whenever possible she took on herself the blame and punishment of his misdeeds .
Electa Holland was Charles ' unmarried sister .
She had kept house for Benjamin until he married ; then Naomi had bundled her out .
Electa had never forgiven her for it .
Her hatred passed on to Naomi 's children .
In a hundred petty ways she revenged herself on them .
For herself , Eunice bore it patiently ; but it was a different matter when it touched Christopher .
Once Electa boxed Christopher 's ears .
Eunice , who was knitting by the table , stood up .
A resemblance to her mother , never before visible , came out in her face like a brand .
She lifted her hand and slapped Electa 's cheek deliberately twice , leaving a dull red mark where she struck .
`` If you ever strike my brother again , '' she said , slowly and vindictively , `` I will slap your face every time you do .
You have no right to touch him . ''
`` My patience , what a fury ! ''
said Electa .
`` Naomi Holland 'll never be dead as long as you 're alive ! ''
She told Charles of the affair and Eunice was severely punished .
But Electa never interfered with Christopher again .
All the discordant elements in the Holland household could not prevent the children from growing up .
It was a consummation which the harrassed Caroline devoutly wished .
When Christopher Holland was seventeen he was a man grown -- a big , strapping fellow .
His childish beauty had coarsened , but he was thought handsome by many .
He took charge of his mother 's farm then , and the brother and sister began their new life together in the long-unoccupied house .
There were few regrets on either side when they left Charles Holland 's roof .
In her secret heart Eunice felt an unspeakable relief .
Christopher had been `` hard to manage , '' as his uncle said , in the last year .
He was getting into the habit of keeping late hours and doubtful company .
This always provoked an explosion of wrath from Charles Holland , and the conflicts between him and his nephew were frequent and bitter .
For four years after their return home Eunice had a hard and anxious life .
Christopher was idle and dissipated .
Most people regarded him as a worthless fellow , and his uncle washed his hands of him utterly .
Only Eunice never failed him ; she never reproached or railed ; she worked like a slave to keep things together .
Eventually her patience prevailed .
Christopher , to a great extent , reformed and worked harder .
He was never unkind to Eunice , even in his rages .
It was not in him to appreciate or return her devotion ; but his tolerant acceptance of it was her solace .
When Eunice was twenty-eight , Edward Bell wanted to marry her .
He was a plain , middle-aged widower with four children ; but , as Caroline did not fail to remind her , Eunice herself was not for every market , and the former did her best to make the match .
She might have succeeded had it not been for Christopher .
When he , in spite of Caroline 's skillful management , got an inkling of what was going on , he flew into a true Holland rage .
If Eunice married and left him -- he would sell the farm and go to the Devil by way of the Klondike .
He could not , and would not , do without her .
No arrangement suggested by Caroline availed to pacify him , and , in the end , Eunice refused to marry Edward Bell .
She could not leave Christopher , she said simply , and in this she stood rock-firm .
Caroline could not budge her an inch .
`` You 're a fool , Eunice , '' she said , when she was obliged to give up in despair .
`` It 's not likely you 'll ever have another chance .
As for Chris , in a year or two he 'll be marrying himself , and where will you be then ?
You 'll find your nose nicely out of joint when he brings a wife in here . ''
The shaft went home .
Eunice 's lips turned white .
But she said , faintly , `` The house is big enough for us both , if he does . ''
Caroline sniffed .
`` Maybe so .
You 'll find out .
However , there 's no use talking .
You 're as set as your mother was , and nothing would ever budge her an inch .
I only hope you wo n't be sorry for it . ''
When three more years had passed Christopher began to court Victoria Pye .
The affair went on for some time before either Eunice or the Hollands go wind of it .
When they did there was an explosion .
Between the Hollands and the Pyes , root and branch , existed a feud that dated back for three generations .
That the original cause of the quarrel was totally forgotten did not matter ; it was matter of family pride that a Holland should have no dealings with a Pye .
When Christopher flew so openly in the face of this cherished hatred , there could be nothing less than consternation .
Charles Holland broke through his determination to have nothing to do with Christopher , to remonstrate .
Caroline went to Eunice in as much of a splutter as if Christopher had been her own brother .
Eunice did not care a row of pins for the Holland-Pye feud .
Victoria was to her what any other girl , upon whom Christopher cast eyes of love , would have been -- a supplanter .
For the first time in her life she was torn with passionate jealousy ; existence became a nightmare to her .
Urged on by Caroline , and her own pain , she ventured to remonstrate with Christopher , also .
She had expected a burst of rage , but he was surprisingly good-natured .
He seemed even amused .
`` What have you got against Victoria ? ''
he asked , tolerantly .
Eunice had no answer ready .
It was true that nothing could be said against the girl .
She felt helpless and baffled .
Christopher laughed at her silence .
`` I guess you 're a little jealous , '' he said .
`` You must have expected I would get married some time .
This house is big enough for us all .
You 'd better look at the matter sensibly , Eunice .
Do n't let Charles and Caroline put nonsense into your head .
A man must marry to please himself . ''
Christopher was out late that night .
Eunice waited up for him , as she always did .
It was a chilly spring evening , reminding her of the night her mother had died .
The kitchen was in spotless order , and she sat down on a stiff-backed chair by the window to wait for her brother .
She did not want a light .
The moonlight fell in with faint illumination .
Outside , the wind was blowing over a bed of new-sprung mint in the garden , and was suggestively fragrant .
It was a very old-fashioned garden , full of perennials Naomi Holland had planted long ago .
Eunice always kept it primly neat .
She had been working in it that day , and felt tired .
She was all alone in the house and the loneliness filled her with a faint dread .
She had tried all that day to reconcile herself to Christopher 's marriage , and had partially succeeded .
She told herself that she could still watch over him and care for his comfort .
She would even try to love Victoria ; after all , it might be pleasant to have another woman in the house .
So , sitting there , she fed her hungry soul with these husks of comfort .
When she heard Christopher 's step she moved about quickly to get a light .
He frowned when he saw her ; he had always resented her sitting up for him .
He sat down by the stove and took off his boots , while Eunice got a lunch for him .
After he had eaten it in silence he made no move to go to bed .
A chill , premonitory fear crept over Eunice .
It did not surprise her at all when Christopher finally said , abruptly , `` Eunice , I 've a notion to get married this spring . ''
Eunice clasped her hands together under the table .
It was what she had been expecting .
She said so , in a monotonous voice .
`` We must make some arrangement for -- for you , Eunice , '' Christopher went on , in a hurried , hesitant way , keeping his eyes riveted doggedly on his plate .
`` Victoria does n't exactly like -- well , she thinks it 's better for young married folks to begin life by themselves , and I guess she 's about right .
You would n't find it comfortable , anyhow , having to step back to second place after being mistress here so long . ''
Eunice tried to speak , but only an indistinct murmur came from her bloodless lips .
The sound made Christopher look up .
Something in her face irritated him .
He pushed back his chair impatiently .
`` Now , Eunice , do n't go taking on .
It wo n't be any use .
Look at this business in a sensible way .
I 'm fond of you , and all that , but a man is bound to consider his wife first .
I 'll provide for you comfortably . ''
`` Do you mean to say that your wife is going to turn me out ? ''
Eunice gasped , rather than spoke , the words .
Christopher drew his reddish brows together .
`` I just mean that Victoria says she wo n't marry me if she has to live with you .
She 's afraid of you .
I told her you would n't interfere with her , but she was n't satisfied .
It 's your own fault , Eunice .
You 've always been so queer and close that people think you 're an awful crank .
Victoria 's young and lively , and you and she would n't get on at all .
There is n't any question of turning you out .
I 'll build a little house for you somewhere , and you 'll be a great deal better off there than you would be here .
So do n't make a fuss . ''
Eunice did not look as if she were going to make a fuss .
She sat as if turned to stone , her hands lying palm upward in her lap .
Christopher got up , hugely relieved that the dreaded explanation was over .
`` Guess I 'll go to bed .
You 'd better have gone long ago .
It 's all nonsense , this waiting up for me . ''
When he had gone Eunice drew a long , sobbing breath and looked about her like a dazed soul .
All the sorrow of her life was as nothing to the desolation that assailed her now .
She rose and , with uncertain footsteps , passed out through the hall and into the room where her mother died .
She had always kept it locked and undisturbed ; it was arranged just as Naomi Holland had left it .
Eunice tottered to the bed and sat down on it .
She recalled the promise she had made to her mother in that very room .
Was the power to keep it to be wrested from her ?
Was she to be driven from her home and parted from the only creature she had on earth to love ?
And would Christopher allow it , after all her sacrifices for him ?
Aye , that he would !
He cared more for that black-eyed , waxen-faced girl at the old Pye place than for his own kin .
Eunice put her hands over her dry , burning eyes and groaned aloud .
Caroline Holland had her hour of triumph over Eunice when she heard it all .
To one of her nature there was no pleasure so sweet as that of saying , `` I told you so . ''
Having said it , however , she offered Eunice a home .
Electa Holland was dead , and Eunice might fill her place very acceptably , if she would .
`` You ca n't go off and live by yourself , '' Caroline told her .
`` It 's all nonsense to talk of such a thing .
We will give you a home , if Christopher is going to turn you out .
You were always a fool , Eunice , to pet and pamper him as you 've done .
This is the thanks you get for it -- turned out like a dog for his fine wife 's whim !
I only wish your mother was alive ! ''
It was probably the first time Caroline had ever wished this .
She had flown at Christopher like a fury about the matter , and had been rudely insulted for her pains .
Christopher had told her to mind her own business .
When Caroline cooled down she made some arrangements with him , to all of which Eunice listlessly assented .
She did not care what became of her .
When Christopher Holland brought Victoria as mistress to the house where his mother had toiled , and suffered , and ruled with her rod of iron , Eunice was gone .
In Charles Holland 's household she took Electa 's place -- an unpaid upper servant .
Charles and Caroline were kind enough to her , and there was plenty to do .
For five years her dull , colorless life went on , during which time she never crossed the threshold of the house where Victoria Holland ruled with a sway as absolute as Naomi 's had been .
Caroline 's curiosity led her , after her first anger had cooled , to make occasional calls , the observations of which she faithfully reported to Eunice .
The latter never betrayed any interest in them , save once .
This was when Caroline came home full of the news that Victoria had had the room where Naomi died opened up , and showily furnished as a parlor .
Then Eunice 's sallow face crimsoned , and her eyes flashed , over the desecration .
But no word of comment or complaint ever crossed her lips .
She knew , as every one else knew , that the glamor soon went from Christopher Holland 's married life .
The marriage proved an unhappy one .
Not unnaturally , although unjustly , Eunice blamed Victoria for this , and hated her more than ever for it .
Christopher seldom came to Charles ' house .
Possibly he felt ashamed .
He had grown into a morose , silent man , at home and abroad .
It was said he had gone back to his old drinking habits .
One fall Victoria Holland went to town to visit her married sister .
She took their only child with her .
In her absence Christopher kept house for himself .
It was a fall long remembered in Avonlea .
With the dropping of the leaves , and the shortening of the dreary days , the shadow of a fear fell over the land .
Charles Holland brought the fateful news home one night .
`` There 's smallpox in Charlottetown -- five or six cases .
Came in one of the vessels .
There was a concert , and a sailor from one of the ships was there , and took sick the next day . ''
This was alarming enough .
Charlottetown was not so very far away and considerable traffic went on between it and the north shore districts .
When Caroline recounted the concert story to Christopher the next morning his ruddy face turned quite pale .
He opened his lips as if to speak , then closed them again .
They were sitting in the kitchen ; Caroline had run over to return some tea she had borrowed , and , incidentally , to see what she could of Victoria 's housekeeping in her absence .
Her eyes had been busy while her tongue ran on , so she did not notice the man 's pallor and silence .
`` How long does it take for smallpox to develop after one has been exposed to it ? ''
he asked abruptly , when Caroline rose to go .
`` Ten to fourteen days , I calc ` late , '' was her answer .
`` I must see about having the girls vaccinated right off .
It 'll likely spread .
When do you expect Victoria home ? ''
`` When she 's ready to come , whenever that will be , '' was the gruff response .
A week later Caroline said to Eunice , `` Whatever 's got Christopher ?
He has n't been out anywhere for ages -- just hangs round home the whole time .
It 's something new for him .
I s ` pose the place is so quiet , now Madam Victoria 's away , that he can find some rest for his soul .
I believe I 'll run over after milking and see how he 's getting on .
You might as well come , too , Eunice . ''
Eunice shook her head .
She had all her mother 's obstinacy , and darken Victoria 's door she would not .
She went on patiently darning socks , sitting at the west window , which was her favorite position -- perhaps because she could look from it across the sloping field and past the crescent curve of maple grove to her lost home .
After milking , Caroline threw a shawl over her head and ran across the field .
The house looked lonely and deserted .
As she fumbled at the latch of the gate the kitchen door opened , and Christopher Holland appeared on the threshold .
`` Do n't come any farther , '' he called .
Caroline fell back in blank astonishment .
Was this some more of Victoria 's work ?
`` I ai n't an agent for the smallpox , '' she called back viciously .
Christopher did not heed her .
`` Will you go home and ask uncle if he 'll go , or send for Doctor Spencer ?
He 's the smallpox doctor .
I 'm sick . ''
Caroline felt a thrill of dismay and fear .
She faltered a few steps backward .
`` Sick ?
What 's the matter with you ? ''
`` I was in Charlottetown that night , and went to the concert .
That sailor sat right beside me .
I thought at the time he looked sick .
It was just twelve days ago .
I 've felt bad all day yesterday and to-day .
Send for the doctor .
Do n't come near the house , or let any one else come near . ''
He went in and shut the door .
Caroline stood for a few moments in an almost ludicrous panic .
Then she turned and ran , as if for her life , across the field .
Eunice saw her coming and met her at the door .
`` Mercy on us ! ''
gasped Caroline .
`` Christopher 's sick and he thinks he 's got the smallpox .
Where 's Charles ? ''
Eunice tottered back against the door .
Her hand went up to her side in a way that had been getting very common with her of late .
Even in the midst of her excitement Caroline noticed it .
`` Eunice , what makes you do that every time anything startles you ? ''
she asked sharply .
`` Is it anything about your heart ? ''
`` I do n't -- know .
A little pain -- it 's gone now .
Did you say that Christopher has -- the smallpox ? ''
`` Well , he says so himself , and it 's more than likely , considering the circumstances .
I declare , I never got such a turn in my life .
It 's a dreadful thing .
I must find Charles at once -- there 'll be a hundred things to do . ''
Eunice hardly heard her .
Her mind was centered upon one idea .
Christopher was ill -- alone -- she must go to him .
It did not matter what his disease was .
When Caroline came in from her breathless expedition to the barn , she found Eunice standing by the table , with her hat and shawl on , tying up a parcel .
`` Eunice !
Where on earth are you going ? ''
`` Over home , '' said Eunice .
`` If Christopher is going to be ill he must be nursed , and I 'm the one to do it .
He ought to be seen to right away . ''
`` Eunice Carr !
Have you gone clean out of your senses ?
It 's the smallpox -- the smallpox !
If he 's got it he 'll have to be taken to the smallpox hospital in town .
You sha n't stir a step to go to that house ! ''
`` I will . ''
Eunice faced her excited aunt quietly .
The odd resemblance to her mother , which only came out in moments of great tension , was plainly visible .
`` He sha n't go to the hospital -- they never get proper attention there .
You need n't try to stop me .
It wo n't put you or your family in any danger . ''
Caroline fell helplessly into a chair .
She felt that it would be of no use to argue with a woman so determined .
She wished Charles was there .
But Charles had already gone , post-haste , for the doctor .
With a firm step , Eunice went across the field foot-path she had not trodden for so long .
She felt no fear -- rather a sort of elation .
Christopher needed her once more ; the interloper who had come between them was not there .
As she walked through the frosty twilight she thought of the promise made to Naomi Holland , years ago .
Christopher saw her coming and waved her back .
`` Do n't come any nearer , Eunice .
Did n't Caroline tell you ?
I 'm taking smallpox . ''
Eunice did not pause .
She went boldly through the yard and up the porch steps .
He retreated before her and held the door .
`` Eunice , you 're crazy , girl !
Go home , before it 's too late . ''
Eunice pushed open the door resolutely and went in .
`` It 's too late now .
I 'm here , and I mean to stay and nurse you , if it 's the smallpox you 've got .
Maybe it 's not .
Just now , when a person has a finger-ache , he thinks it 's smallpox .
Anyhow , whatever it is , you ought to be in bed and looked after .
You 'll catch cold .
Let me get a light and have a look at you . ''
Christopher had sunk into a chair .
His natural selfishness reasserted itself , and he made no further effort to dissuade Eunice .
She got a lamp and set it on the table by him , while she scrutinized his face closely .
`` You look feverish .
What do you feel like ?
When did you take sick ? ''
`` Yesterday afternoon .
I have chills and hot spells and pains in my back .
Eunice , do you think it 's really smallpox ?
And will I die ? ''
He caught her hands , and looked imploringly up at her , as a child might have done .
Eunice felt a wave of love and tenderness sweep warmly over her starved heart .
`` Do n't worry .
Lots of people recover from smallpox if they 're properly nursed , and you 'll be that , for I 'll see to it .
Charles has gone for the doctor , and we 'll know when he comes .
You must go straight to bed . ''
She took off her hat and shawl , and hung them up .
She felt as much at home as if she had never been away .
She had got back to her kingdom , and there was none to dispute it with her .
When Dr. Spencer and old Giles Blewett , who had had smallpox in his youth , came , two hours later , they found Eunice in serene charge .
the house was in order and reeking of disinfectants .
Victoria 's fine furniture and fixings were being bundled out of the parlor .
There was no bedroom downstairs , and , if Christopher was going to be ill , he must be installed there .
The doctor looked grave .
`` I do n't like it , '' he said , `` but I 'm not quite sure yet .
If it is smallpox the eruption will probably by out by morning .
I must admit he has most of the symptoms .
Will you have him taken to the hospital ? ''
`` No , '' said Eunice , decisively .
`` I 'll nurse him myself .
I 'm not afraid and I 'm well and strong . ''
`` Very well .
You 've been vaccinated lately ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Well , nothing more can be done at present .
You may as well lie down for a while and save your strength . ''
But Eunice could not do that .
There was too much to attend to .
She went out to the hall and threw up the window .
Down below , at a safe distance , Charles Holland was waiting .
The cold wind blew up to Eunice the odor of the disinfectants with which he had steeped himself .
`` What does the doctor say ? ''
he shouted .
`` He thinks it 's the smallpox .
Have you sent word to Victoria ? ''
`` Yes , Jim Blewett drove into town and told her .
She 'll stay with her sister till it is over .
Of course it 's the best thing for her to do .
She 's terribly frightened . ''
Eunice 's lip curled contemptuously .
To her , a wife who could desert her husband , no matter what disease he had , was an incomprehensible creature .
But it was better so ; she would have Christopher all to herself .
The night was long and wearisome , but the morning came all too soon for the dread certainty it brought .
The doctor pronounced the case smallpox .
Eunice had hoped against hope , but now , knowing the worst , she was very calm and resolute .
By noon the fateful yellow flag was flying over the house , and all arrangements had been made .
Caroline was to do the necessary cooking , and Charles was to bring the food and leave it in the yard .
Old Giles Blewett was to come every day and attend to the stock , as well as help Eunice with the sick man ; and the long , hard fight with death began .
It was a hard fight , indeed .
Christopher Holland , in the clutches of the loathsome disease , was an object from which his nearest and dearest might have been pardoned for shrinking .
But Eunice never faltered ; she never left her post .
Sometimes she dozed in a chair by the bed , but she never lay down .
Her endurance was something wonderful , her patience and tenderness almost superhuman .
To and fro she went , in noiseless ministry , as the long , dreadful days wore away , with a quiet smile on her lips , and in her dark , sorrowful eyes the rapt look of a pictured saint in some dim cathedral niche .
For her there was no world outside the bare room where lay the repulsive object she loved .
One day the doctor looked very grave .
He had grown well-hardened to pitiful scenes in his life-time ; but he shrunk from telling Eunice that her brother could not live .
He had never seen such devotion as hers .
It seemed brutal to tell her that it had been in vain .
But Eunice had seen it for herself .
She took it very calmly , the doctor thought .
And she had her reward at last -- such as it was .
She thought it amply sufficient .
One night Christopher Holland opened his swollen eyes as she bent over him .
They were alone in the old house .
It was raining outside , and the drops rattled noisily on the panes .
Christopher smiled at his sister with parched lips , and put out a feeble hand toward her .
`` Eunice , '' he said faintly , `` you 've been the best sister ever a man had .
I have n't treated you right ; but you 've stood by me to the last .
Tell Victoria -- tell her -- to be good to you -- '' His voice died away into an inarticulate murmur .
Eunice Carr was alone with her dead .
They buried Christopher Holland in haste and privacy the next day .
The doctor disinfected the house , and Eunice was to stay there alone until it might be safe to make other arrangements .
She had not shed a tear ; the doctor thought she was a rather odd person , but he had a great admiration for her .
He told her she was the best nurse he had ever seen .
To Eunice , praise or blame mattered nothing .
Something in her life had snapped -- some vital interest had departed .
She wondered how she could live through the dreary , coming years .
Late that night she went into the room where her mother and brother had died .
The window was open and the cold , pure air was grateful to her after the drug-laden atmosphere she had breathed so long .
She knelt down by the stripped bed .
`` Mother , '' she said aloud , `` I have kept my promise . ''
When she tried to rise , long after , she staggered and fell across the bed , with her hand pressed on her heart .
Old Giles Blewett found her there in the morning .
There was a smile on her face .
XIII .
THE CONSCIENCE CASE OF DAVID BELL Eben Bell came in with an armful of wood and banged it cheerfully down in the box behind the glowing Waterloo stove , which was coloring the heart of the little kitchen 's gloom with tremulous , rose-red whirls of light .
`` There , sis , that 's the last chore on my list .
Bob 's milking .
Nothing more for me to do but put on my white collar for meeting .
Avonlea is more than lively since the evangelist came , ai n't it , though ! ''
Mollie Bell nodded .
She was curling her hair before the tiny mirror that hung on the whitewashed wall and distorted her round , pink-and-white face into a grotesque caricature .
`` Wonder who 'll stand up to-night , '' said Eben reflectively , sitting down on the edge of the wood-box .
`` There ai n't many sinners left in Avonlea -- only a few hardened chaps like myself . ''
`` You should n't talk like that , '' said Mollie rebukingly .
`` What if father heard you ? ''
`` Father would n't hear me if I shouted it in his ear , '' returned Eben .
`` He goes around , these days , like a man in a dream and a mighty bad dream at that .
Father has always been a good man .
What 's the matter with him ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' said Mollie , dropping her voice .
`` Mother is dreadfully worried over him .
And everybody is talking , Eb .
It just makes me squirm .
Flora Jane Fletcher asked me last night why father never testified , and him one of the elders .
She said the minister was perplexed about it .
I felt my face getting red . ''
`` Why did n't you tell her it was no business of hers ? ''
said Eben angrily .
`` Old Flora Jane had better mind her own business . ''
`` But all the folks are talking about it , Eb .
And mother is fretting her heart out over it .
Father has never acted like himself since these meetings began .
He just goes there night after night , and sits like a mummy , with his head down .
And almost everybody else in Avonlea has testified . ''
`` Oh , no , there 's lots have n't , '' said Eben .
`` Matthew Cuthbert never has , nor Uncle Elisha , nor any of the Whites . ''
`` But everybody knows they do n't believe in getting up and testifying , so nobody wonders when they do n't .
Besides , '' Mollie laughed -- `` Matthew could never get a word out in public , if he did believe in it .
He 'd be too shy .
But , '' she added with a sigh , `` it is n't that way with father .
He believes in testimony , so people wonder why he does n't get up .
Why , even old Josiah Sloane gets up every night . ''
`` With his whiskers sticking out every which way , and his hair ditto , '' interjected the graceless Eben .
`` When the minister calls for testimonials and all the folks look at our pew , I feel ready to sink through the floor for shame , '' sighed Mollie .
`` If father would get up just once ! ''
Miriam Bell entered the kitchen .
She was ready for the meeting , to which Major Spencer was to take her .
She was a tall , pale girl , with a serious face , and dark , thoughtful eyes , totally unlike Mollie .
She had `` come under conviction '' during the meetings , and had stood up for prayer and testimony several times .
The evangelist thought her very spiritual .
She heard Mollie 's concluding sentence and spoke reprovingly .
`` You should n't criticize your father , Mollie .
It is n't for you to judge him . ''
Eben had hastily slipped out .
He was afraid Miriam would begin talking religion to him if he stayed .
He had with difficulty escaped from an exhortation by Robert in the cow-stable .
There was no peace in Avonlea for the unregenerate , he reflected .
Robert and Miriam had both `` come out , '' and Mollie was hovering on the brink .
`` Dad and I are the black sheep of the family , '' he said , with a laugh , for which he at once felt guilty .
Eben had been brought up with a strict reverence for all religious matters .
On the surface he might sometimes laugh at them , but the deeps troubled him whenever he did so .
Indoors , Miriam touched her younger sister 's shoulder and looked at her affectionately .
`` Wo n't you decide to-night , Mollie ? ''
she asked , in a voice tremulous with emotion .
Mollie crimsoned and turned her face away uncomfortably .
She did not know what answer to make , and was glad that a jingle of bells outside saved her the necessity of replying .
`` There 's your beau , Miriam , '' she said , as she darted into the sitting room .
Soon after , Eben brought the family pung and his chubby red mare to the door for Mollie .
He had not as yet attained to the dignity of a cutter of his own .
That was for his elder brother , Robert , who presently came out in his new fur coat and drove dashingly away with bells and glitter .
`` Thinks he 's the people , '' remarked Eben , with a fraternal grin .
The rich winter twilight was purpling over the white world as they drove down the lane under the over-arching wild cherry trees that glittered with gemmy hoar-frost .
The snow creaked and crisped under the runners .
A shrill wind was keening in the leafless dogwoods .
Over the trees the sky was a dome of silver , with a lucent star or two on the slope of the west .
Earth-stars gleamed warmly out here and there , where homesteads were tucked snugly away in their orchards or groves of birch .
`` The church will be jammed to-night , '' said Eben .
`` It 's so fine that folks will come from near and far .
Guess it 'll be exciting . ''
`` If only father would testify ! ''
sighed Mollie , from the bottom of the pung , where she was snuggled amid furs and straw .
`` Miriam can say what she likes , but I do feels as if we were all disgraced .
It sends a creep all over me to hear Mr. Bentley say , ` Now , is n't there one more to say a word for Jesus ? '
and look right over at father . ''
Eben flicked his mare with his whip , and she broke into a trot .
The silence was filled with a faint , fairy-like melody from afar down the road where a pungful of young folks from White Sands were singing hymns on their way to meeting .
`` Look here , Mollie , '' said Eben awkwardly at last , `` are you going to stand up for prayers to-night ? ''
`` I -- I ca n't as long as father acts this way , '' answered Mollie , in a choked voice .
`` I -- I want to , Eb , and Mirry and Bob want me to , but I ca n't .
I do hope that the evangelist wo n't come and talk to me special to-night .
I always feels as if I was being pulled two different ways , when he does . ''
Back in the kitchen at home Mrs. Bell was waiting for her husband to bring the horse to the door .
She was a slight , dark-eyed little woman , with thin , vivid-red cheeks .
From out of the swathings in which she had wrapped her bonnet , her face gleamed sad and troubled .
Now and then she sighed heavily .
The cat came to her from under the stove , languidly stretching himself , and yawning until all the red cavern of his mouth and throat was revealed .
At the moment he had an uncanny resemblance to Elder Joseph Blewett of White Sands -- Roaring Joe , the irreverent boys called him -- when he grew excited and shouted .
Mrs. Bell saw it -- and then reproached herself for the sacrilege .
`` But it 's no wonder I 've wicked thoughts , '' she said , wearily .
`` I 'm that worried I ai n't rightly myself .
If he would only tell me what the trouble is , maybe I could help him .
At any rate , I 'd KNOW .
It hurts me so to see him going about , day after day , with his head hanging and that look on his face , as if he had something fearful on his conscience -- him that never harmed a living soul .
And then the way he groans and mutters in his sleep !
He has always lived a just , upright life .
He has n't no right to go on like this , disgracing his family . ''
Mrs. Bell 's angry sob was cut short by the sleigh at the door .
Her husband poked in his busy , iron-gray head and said , `` Now , mother . ''
He helped her into the sleigh , tucked the rugs warmly around her , and put a hot brick at her feet .
His solicitude hurt her .
It was all for her material comfort .
It did not matter to him what mental agony she might suffer over his strange attitude .
For the first time in their married life Mary Bell felt resentment against her husband .
They drove along in silence , past the snow-powdered hedges of spruce , and under the arches of the forest roadways .
They were late , and a great stillness was over all the land .
David Bell never spoke .
All his usual cheerful talkativeness had disappeared since the revival meetings had begun in Avonlea .
From the first he had gone about as a man over whom some strange doom is impending , seemingly oblivious to all that might be said or thought of him in his own family or in the church .
Mary Bell thought she would go out of her mind if her husband continued to act in this way .
Her reflections were bitter and rebellious as they sped along through the glittering night of the winter 's prime .
`` I do n't get one bit of good out of the meetings , '' she thought resentfully .
`` There ai n't any peace or joy for me , not even in testifying myself , when David sits there like a stick or stone .
If he 'd been opposed to the revivalist coming here , like old Uncle Jerry , or if he did n't believe in public testimony , I would n't mind .
I 'd understand .
But , as it is , I feel dreadful humiliated . ''
Revival meetings had never been held in Avonlea before .
`` Uncle '' Jerry MacPherson , who was the supreme local authority in church matters , taking precedence of even the minister , had been uncompromisingly opposed to them .
He was a stern , deeply religious Scotchman , with a horror of the emotional form of religion .
As long as Uncle Jerry 's spare , ascetic form and deeply-graved square-jawed face filled his accustomed corner by the northwest window of Avonlea church no revivalist might venture therein , although the majority of the congregation , including the minister , would have welcomed one warmly .
But now Uncle Jerry was sleeping peacefully under the tangled grasses and white snows of the burying ground , and , if dead people ever do turn in their graves , Uncle Jerry might well have turned in his when the revivalist came to Avonlea church , and there followed the emotional services , public testimonies , and religious excitement which the old man 's sturdy soul had always abhorred .
Avonlea was a good field for an evangelist .
The Rev. Geoffrey Mountain , who came to assist the Avonlea minister in revivifying the dry bones thereof , knew this and reveled in the knowledge .
It was not often that such a virgin parish could be found nowadays , with scores of impressionable , unspoiled souls on which fervid oratory could play skillfully , as a master on a mighty organ , until every note in them thrilled to life and utterance .
The Rev. Geoffrey Mountain was a good man ; of the earth , earthy , to be sure , but with an unquestionable sincerity of belief and purpose which went far to counterbalance the sensationalism of some of his methods .
He was large and handsome , with a marvelously sweet and winning voice -- a voice that could melt into irresistible tenderness , or swell into sonorous appeal and condemnation , or ring like a trumpet calling to battle .
His frequent grammatical errors , and lapses into vulgarity , counted for nothing against its charm , and the most commonplace words in the world would have borrowed much of the power of real oratory from its magic .
He knew its value and used it effectively -- perhaps even ostentatiously .
Geoffrey Mountain 's religion and methods , like the man himself , were showy , but , of their kind , sincere , and , though the good he accomplished might not be unmixed , it was a quantity to be reckoned with .
So the Rev. Geoffrey Mountain came to Avonlea , conquering and to conquer .
Night after night the church was crowded with eager listeners , who hung breathlessly on his words and wept and thrilled and exulted as he willed .
Into many young souls his appeals and warnings burned their way , and each night they rose for prayer in response to his invitation .
Older Christians , too , took on a new lease of intensity , and even the unregenerate and the scoffers found a certain fascination in the meetings .
Threading through it all , for old and young , converted and unconverted , was an unacknowledged feeling for religious dissipation .
Avonlea was a quiet place , -- and the revival meetings were lively .
When David and Mary Bell reached the church the services had begun , and they heard the refrain of a hallelujah hymn as they were crossing Harmon Andrews ' field .
David Bell left his wife at the platform and drove to the horse-shed .
Mrs. Bell unwound the scarf from her bonnet and shook the frost crystals from it .
In the porch Flora Jane Fletcher and her sister , Mrs. Harmon Andrews , were talking in low whispers .
Presently Flora Jane put out her lank , cashmere-gloved hand and plucked Mrs. Bell 's shawl .
`` Mary , is the elder going to testify to-night ? ''
she asked , in a shrill whisper .
Mrs. Bell winced .
She would have given much to be able to answer `` Yes , '' but she had to say stiffly , `` I do n't know . ''
Flora Jane lifted her chin .
`` Well , Mrs. Bell , I only asked because every one thinks it is strange he does n't -- and an elder , of all people .
It looks as if he did n't think himself a Christian , you know .
Of course , we all know better , but it LOOKS that way .
If I was you , I 'd tell him folks was talking about it .
Mr. Bentley says it is hindering the full success of the meetings . ''
Mrs. Bell turned on her tormentor in swift anger .
She might resent her husband 's strange behavior herself , but nobody else should dare to criticize him to her .
`` I do n't think you need to worry yourself about the elder , Flora Jane , '' she said bitingly .
`` Maybe 't is n't the best Christians that do the most talking about it always .
I guess , as far as living up to his profession goes , the elder will compare pretty favorably with Levi Boulter , who gets up and testifies every night , and cheats the very eye-teeth out of people in the daytime . ''
Levi Boulter was a middle-aged widower , with a large family , who was supposed to have cast a matrimonial eye Flora Janeward .
The use of his name was an effective thrust on Mrs. Bell 's part , and silenced Flora Jane .
Too angry for speech she seized her sister 's arm and hurried her into church .
But her victory could not remove from Mary Bell 's soul the sting implanted there by Flora Jane 's words .
When her husband came up to the platform she put her hand on his snowy arm appealingly .
`` Oh , David , wo n't you get up to-night ?
I do feel so dreadful bad -- folks are talking so -- I just feel humiliated . ''
David Bell hung his head like a shamed schoolboy .
`` I ca n't , Mary , '' he said huskily . ''
` Tai n't no use to pester me . ''
`` You do n't care for my feelings , '' said his wife bitterly .
`` And Mollie wo n't come out because you 're acting so .
You 're keeping her back from salvation .
And you 're hindering the success of the revival -- Mr. Bentley says so . ''
David Bell groaned .
This sign of suffering wrung his wife 's heart .
With quick contrition she whispered , `` There , never mind , David .
I ought n't to have spoken to you so .
You know your duty best .
Let 's go in . ''
`` Wait . ''
His voice was imploring .
`` Mary , is it true that Mollie wo n't come out because of me ?
Am I standing in my child 's light ? ''
`` I -- do n't -- know .
I guess not .
Mollie 's just a foolish young girl yet .
Never mind -- come in . ''
He followed her dejectedly in , and up the aisle to their pew in the center of the church .
The building was warm and crowded .
The pastor was reading the Bible lesson for the evening .
In the choir , behind him , David Bell saw Mollie 's girlish face , tinged with a troubled seriousness .
His own wind-ruddy face and bushy gray eyebrows worked convulsively with his inward throes .
A sigh that was almost a groan burst from him .
`` I 'll have to do it , '' he said to himself in agony .
When several more hymns had been sung , and late arrivals began to pack the aisles , the evangelist arose .
His style for the evening was the tender , the pleading , the solemn .
He modulated his tones to marvelous sweetness , and sent them thrillingly over the breathless pews , entangling the hearts and souls of his listeners in a mesh of subtle emotion .
Many of the women began to cry softly .
Fervent amens broke from some of the members .
When the evangelist sat down , after a closing appeal which , in its way , was a masterpiece , an audible sigh of relieved tension passed like a wave over the audience .
After prayer the pastor made the usual request that , if any of those present wished to come out on the side of Christ , they would signify the wish by rising for a moment in their places .
After a brief interval , a pale boy under the gallery rose , followed by an old man at the top of the church .
A frightened , sweet-faced child of twelve got tremblingly upon her feet , and a dramatic thrill passed over the congregation when her mother suddenly stood up beside her .
The evangelist 's `` Thank God '' was hearty and insistent .
David Bell looked almost imploringly at Mollie ; but she kept her seat , with downcast eyes .
Over in the big square `` stone pew '' he saw Eben bending forward , with his elbows on his knees , gazing frowningly at the floor .
`` I 'm a stumbling block to them both , '' he thought bitterly .
A hymn was sung and prayer offered for those under conviction .
Then testimonies were called for .
The evangelist asked for them in tones which made it seem a personal request to every one in that building .
Many testimonies followed , each infused with the personality of the giver .
Most of them were brief and stereotyped .
Finally a pause ensued .
The evangelist swept the pews with his kindling eyes and exclaimed , appealingly , `` Has EVERY Christian in this church to-night spoken a word for his Master ? ''
There were many who had not testified , but every eye in the building followed the pastor 's accusing glance to the Bell pew .
Mollie crimsoned with shame .
Mrs. Bell cowered visibly .
Although everybody looked thus at David Bell , nobody now expected him to testify .
When he rose to his feet , a murmur of surprise passed over the audience , followed by a silence so complete as to be terrible .
To David Bell it seemed to possess the awe of final judgment .
Twice he opened his lips , and tried vainly to speak .
The third time he succeeded ; but his voice sounded strangely in his own ears .
He gripped the back of the pew before him with his knotty hands , and fixed his eyes unseeingly on the Christian Endeavor pledge that hung over the heads of the choir .
`` Brethren and sisters , '' he said hoarsely , `` before I can say a word of Christian testimony here to-night I 've got something to confess .
It 's been lying hard and heavy on my conscience ever since these meetings begun .
As long as I kept silence about it I could n't get up and bear witness for Christ .
Many of you have expected me to do it .
Maybe I 've been a stumbling block to some of you .
This season of revival has brought no blessing to me because of my sin , which I repented of , but tried to conceal .
There has been a spiritual darkness over me .
`` Friends and neighbors , I have always been held by you as an honest man .
It was the shame of having you know I was not which has kept me back from open confession and testimony .
Just afore these meetings commenced I come home from town one night and found that somebody had passed a counterfeit ten-dollar bill on me .
Then Satan entered into me and possessed me .
When Mrs. Rachel Lynde come next day , collecting for foreign missions , I give her that ten dollar bill .
She never knowed the difference , and sent it away with the rest .
But I knew I 'd done a mean and sinful thing .
I could n't drive it out of my thoughts .
A few days afterwards I went down to Mrs. Rachel 's and give her ten good dollars for the fund .
I told her I had come to the conclusion I ought to give more than ten dollars , out of my abundance , to the Lord .
That was a lie .
Mrs. Lynde thought I was a generous man , and I felt ashamed to look her in the face .
But I 'd done what I could to right the wrong , and I thought it would be all right .
But it was n't .
I 've never known a minute 's peace of mind or conscience since .
I tried to cheat the Lord , and then tried to patch it up by doing something that redounded to my worldly credit .
When these meetings begun , and everybody expected me to testify , I could n't do it .
It would have seemed like blasphemy .
And I could n't endure the thought of telling what I 'd done , either .
I argued it all out a thousand times that I had n't done any real harm after all , but it was no use .
I 've been so wrapped up in my own brooding and misery that I did n't realize I was inflicting suffering on those dear to me by my conduct , and , maybe , holding some of them back from the paths of salvation .
But my eyes have been opened to this to-night , and the Lord has given me strength to confess my sin and glorify His holy name . ''
The broken tones ceased , and David Bell sat down , wiping the great drops of perspiration from his brow .
To a man of his training , and cast of thought , no ordeal could be more terrible than that through which he had just passed .
But underneath the turmoil of his emotion he felt a great calm and peace , threaded with the exultation of a hard-won spiritual victory .
Over the church was a solemn hush .
The evangelist 's `` amen '' was not spoken with his usual unctuous fervor , but very gently and reverently .
In spite of his coarse fiber , he could appreciate the nobility behind such a confession as this , and the deeps of stern suffering it sounded .
Before the last prayer the pastor paused and looked around .
`` Is there yet one , '' he asked gently , `` who wishes to be especially remembered in our concluding prayer ? ''
For a moment nobody moved .
Then Mollie Bell stood up in the choir seat , and , down by the stove , Eben , his flushed , boyish face held high , rose sturdily to his feet in the midst of his companions .
`` Thank God , '' whispered Mary Bell .
`` Amen , '' said her husband huskily .
`` Let us pray , '' said Mr. Bentley .
XIV .
ONLY A COMMON FELLOW On my dearie 's wedding morning I wakened early and went to her room .
Long and long ago she had made me promise that I would be the one to wake her on the morning of her wedding day .
`` You were the first to take me in your arms when I came into the world , Aunt Rachel , '' she had said , `` and I want you to be the first to greet me on that wonderful day . ''
But that was long ago , and now my heart foreboded that there would be no need of wakening her .
And there was not .
She was lying there awake , very quiet , with her hand under her cheek , and her big blue eyes fixed on the window , through which a pale , dull light was creeping in -- a joyless light it was , and enough to make a body shiver .
I felt more like weeping than rejoicing , and my heart took to aching when I saw her there so white and patient , more like a girl who was waiting for a winding-sheet than for a bridal veil .
But she smiled brave-like , when I sat down on her bed and took her hand .
`` You look as if you have n't slept all night , dearie , '' I said .
`` I did n't -- not a great deal , '' she answered me .
`` But the night did n't seem long ; no , it seemed too short .
I was thinking of a great many things .
What time is it , Aunt Rachel ? ''
`` Five o'clock . ''
`` Then in six hours more -- '' She suddenly sat up in her bed , her great , thick rope of brown hair falling over her white shoulders , and flung her arms about me , and burst into tears on my old breast .
I petted and soothed her , and said not a word ; and , after a while , she stopped crying ; but she still sat with her head so that I could n't see her face .
`` We did n't think it would be like this once , did we , Aunt Rachel ? ''
she said , very softly .
`` It should n't be like this , now , '' I said .
I had to say it .
I never could hide the thought of that marriage , and I could n't pretend to .
It was all her stepmother 's doings -- right well I knew that .
My dearie would never have taken Mark Foster else .
`` Do n't let us talk of that , '' she said , soft and beseeching , just the same way she used to speak when she was a baby-child and wanted to coax me into something .
`` Let us talk about the old days -- and HIM . ''
`` I do n't see much use in talking of HIM , when you 're going to marry Mark Foster to-day , '' I said .
But she put her hand on my mouth .
`` It 's for the last time , Aunt Rachel .
After to-day I can never talk of him , or even think of him .
It 's four years since he went away .
Do you remember how he looked , Aunt Rachel ? ''
`` I mind well enough , I reckon , '' I said , kind of curt-like .
And I did .
Owen Blair had n't a face a body could forget -- that long face of his with its clean color and its eyes made to look love into a woman 's .
When I thought of Mark Foster 's sallow skin and lank jaws I felt sick-like .
Not that Mark was ugly -- he was just a common-looking fellow .
`` He was so handsome , was n't he , Aunt Rachel ? ''
my dearie went on , in that patient voice of hers .
`` So tall and strong and handsome .
I wish we had n't parted in anger .
It was so foolish of us to quarrel .
But it would have been all right if he had lived to come back .
I know it would have been all right .
I know he did n't carry any bitterness against me to his death .
I thought once , Aunt Rachel , that I would go through life true to him , and then , over on the other side , I 'd meet him just as before , all his and his only .
But it is n't to be . ''
`` Thanks to your stepma 's wheedling and Mark Foster 's scheming , '' said I. `` No , Mark did n't scheme , '' she said patiently .
`` Do n't be unjust to Mark , Aunt Rachel .
He has been very good and kind . ''
`` He 's as stupid as an owlet and as stubborn as Solomon 's mule , '' I said , for I WOULD say it .
`` He 's just a common fellow , and yet he thinks he 's good enough for my beauty . ''
`` Do n't talk about Mark , '' she pleaded again .
`` I mean to be a good , faithful wife to him .
But I 'm my own woman yet -- YET -- for just a few more sweet hours , and I want to give them to HIM .
The last hours of my maidenhood -- they must belong to HIM . ''
So she talked of him , me sitting there and holding her , with her lovely hair hanging down over my arm , and my heart aching so for her that it hurt bitter .
She did n't feel as bad as I did , because she 'd made up her mind what to do and was resigned .
She was going to marry Mark Foster , but her heart was in France , in that grave nobody knew of , where the Huns had buried Owen Blair -- if they had buried him at all .
And she went over all they had been to each other , since they were mites of babies , going to school together and meaning , even then , to be married when they grew up ; and the first words of love he 'd said to her , and what she 'd dreamed and hoped for .
The only thing she did n't bring up was the time he thrashed Mark Foster for bringing her apples .
She never mentioned Mark 's name ; it was all Owen -- Owen -- and how he looked , and what might have been , if he had n't gone off to the awful war and got shot .
And there was me , holding her and listening to it all , and her stepma sleeping sound and triumphant in the next room .
When she had talked it all out she lay down on her pillow again .
I got up and went downstairs to light the fire .
I felt terrible old and tired .
My feet seemed to drag , and the tears kept coming to my eyes , though I tried to keep them away , for well I knew it was a bad omen to be weeping on a wedding day .
Before long Isabella Clark came down ; bright and pleased-looking enough , SHE was .
I 'd never liked Isabella , from the day Phillippa 's father brought her here ; and I liked her less than ever this morning .
She was one of your sly , deep women , always smiling smooth , and scheming underneath it .
I 'll say it for her , though , she had been good to Phillippa ; but it was her doings that my dearie was to marry Mark Foster that day .
`` Up betimes , Rachel , '' she said , smiling and speaking me fair , as she always did , and hating me in her heart , as I well knew .
`` That is right , for we 'll have plenty to do to-day .
A wedding makes lots of work . ''
`` Not this sort of a wedding , '' I said , sour-like .
`` I do n't call it a wedding when two people get married and sneak off as if they were ashamed of it -- as well they might be in this case . ''
`` It was Phillippa 's own wish that all should be very quiet , '' said Isabella , as smooth as cream .
`` You know I 'd have given her a big wedding , if she 'd wanted it . ''
`` Oh , it 's better quiet , '' I said .
`` The fewer to see Phillippa marry a man like Mark Foster the better . ''
`` Mark Foster is a good man , Rachel . ''
`` No good man would be content to buy a girl as he 's bought Phillippa , '' I said , determined to give it in to her .
`` He 's a common fellow , not fit for my dearie to wipe her feet on .
It 's well that her mother did n't live to see this day ; but this day would never have come , if she 'd lived . ''
`` I dare say Phillippa 's mother would have remembered that Mark Foster is very well off , quite as readily as worse people , '' said Isabella , a little spitefully .
I liked her better when she was spiteful than when she was smooth .
I did n't feel so scared of her then .
The marriage was to be at eleven o'clock , and , at nine , I went up to help Phillippa dress .
She was no fussy bride , caring much what she looked like .
If Owen had been the bridegroom it would have been different .
Nothing would have pleased her then ; but now it was only just `` That will do very well , Aunt Rachel , '' without even glancing at it .
Still , nothing could prevent her from looking lovely when she was dressed .
My dearie would have been a beauty in a beggarmaid 's rags .
In her white dress and veil she was as fair as a queen .
And she was as good as she was pretty .
It was the right sort of goodness , too , with just enough spice of original sin in it to keep it from spoiling by reason of over-sweetness .
Then she sent me out .
`` I want to be alone my last hour , '' she said .
`` Kiss me , Aunt Rachel -- MOTHER Rachel . ''
When I 'd gone down , crying like the old fool I was , I heard a rap at the door .
My first thought was to go out and send Isabella to it , for I supposed it was Mark Foster , come ahead of time , and small stomach I had for seeing him .
I fall trembling , even yet , when I think , `` What if I had sent Isabella to that door ? ''
But go I did , and opened it , defiant-like , kind of hoping it was Mark Foster to see the tears on my face .
I opened it -- and staggered back like I 'd got a blow .
`` Owen !
Lord ha ' mercy on us !
Owen ! ''
I said , just like that , going cold all over , for it 's the truth that I thought it was his spirit come back to forbid that unholy marriage .
But he sprang right in , and caught my wrinkled old hands in a grasp that was of flesh and blood .
`` Aunt Rachel , I 'm not too late ? ''
he said , savage-like .
`` Tell me I 'm in time . ''
I looked up at him , standing over me there , tall and handsome , no change in him except he was so brown and had a little white scar on his forehead ; and , though I could n't understand at all , being all bewildered-like , I felt a great deep thankfulness .
`` No , you 're not too late , '' I said .
`` Thank God , '' said he , under his breath .
And then he pulled me into the parlor and shut the door .
`` They told me at the station that Phillippa was to be married to Mark Foster to-day .
I could n't believe it , but I came here as fast as horse-flesh could bring me .
Aunt Rachel , it ca n't be true !
She ca n't care for Mark Foster , even if she had forgotten me ! ''
`` It 's true enough that she is to marry Mark , '' I said , half-laughing , half-crying , `` but she does n't care for him .
Every beat of her heart is for you .
It 's all her stepma 's doings .
Mark has got a mortgage on the place , and he told Isabella Clark that , if Phillippa would marry him , he 'd burn the mortgage , and , if she would n't , he 'd foreclose .
Phillippa is sacrificing herself to save her stepma for her dead father 's sake .
It 's all your fault , '' I cried , getting over my bewilderment .
`` We thought you were dead .
Why did n't you come home when you were alive ?
Why did n't you write ? ''
`` I DID write , after I got out of the hospital , several times , '' he said , `` and never a word in answer , Aunt Rachel .
What was I to think when Phillippa would n't answer my letters ? ''
`` She never got one , '' I cried .
`` She wept her sweet eyes out over you .
SOMEBODY must have got those letters . ''
And I knew then , and I know now , though never a shadow of proof have I , that Isabella Clark had got them -- and kept them .
That woman would stick at nothing .
`` Well , we 'll sift that matter some other time , '' said Owen impatiently .
`` There are other things to think of now .
I must see Phillippa . ''
`` I 'll manage it for you , '' I said eagerly ; but , just as I spoke , the door opened and Isabella and Mark came in .
Never shall I forget the look on Isabella 's face .
I almost felt sorry for her .
She turned sickly yellow and her eyes went wild ; they were looking at the downfall of all her schemes and hopes .
I did n't look at Mark Foster , at first , and , when I did , there was n't anything to see .
His face was just as sallow and wooden as ever ; he looked undersized and common beside Owen .
Nobody 'd ever have picked him out for a bridegroom .
Owen spoke first .
`` I want to see Phillippa , '' he said , as if it were but yesterday that he had gone away .
All Isabella 's smoothness and policy had dropped away from her , and the real woman stood there , plotting and unscrupulous , as I 'd always know her .
`` You ca n't see her , '' she said desperate-like .
`` She does n't want to see you .
You went and left her and never wrote , and she knew you were n't worth fretting over , and she has learned to care for a better man . ''
`` I DID write and I think you know that better than most folks , '' said Owen , trying hard to speak quiet .
`` As for the rest , I 'm not going to discuss it with you .
When I hear from Phillippa 's own lips that she cares for another man I 'll believe it -- and not before . ''
`` You 'll never hear it from her lips , '' said I. Isabella gave me a venomous look .
`` You 'll not see Phillippa until she is a better man 's wife , '' she said stubbornly , `` and I order you to leave my house , Owen Blair ! ''
`` No ! ''
It was Mark Foster who spoke .
He had n't said a word ; but he came forward now , and stood before Owen .
Such a difference as there was between them !
But he looked Owen right in the face , quiet-like , and Owen glared back in fury .
`` Will it satisfy you , Owen , if Phillippa comes down here and chooses between us ? ''
`` Yes , it will , '' said Owen .
Mark Foster turned to me .
`` Go and bring her down , '' said he .
Isabella , judging Phillippa by herself , gave a little moan of despair , and Owen , blinded by love and hope , thought his cause was won .
But I knew my dearie too well to be glad , and Mark Foster did , too , and I hated him for it .
I went up to my dearie 's room , all pale and shaking .
When I went in she came to meet me , like a girl going to meet death .
`` Is -- it -- time ? ''
she said , with her hands locked tight together .
I said not a word , hoping that the unlooked-for sight of Owen would break down her resolution .
I just held out my hand to her , and led her downstairs .
She clung to me and her hands were as cold as snow .
When I opened the parlor door I stood back , and pushed her in before me .
She just cried , `` Owen ! ''
and shook so that I put my arms about her to steady her .
Owen made a step towards her , his face and eyes all aflame with his love and longing , but Mark barred his way .
`` Wait till she has made her choice , '' he said , and then he turned to Phillippa .
I could n't see my dearie 's face , but I could see Mark 's , and there was n't a spark of feeling in it .
Behind it was Isabella 's , all pinched and gray .
`` Phillippa , '' said Mark , `` Owen Blair has come back .
He says he has never forgotten you , and that he wrote to you several times .
I have told him that you have promised me , but I leave you freedom of choice .
Which of us will you marry , Phillippa ? ''
My dearie stood straight up and the trembling left her .
She stepped back , and I could see her face , white as the dead , but calm and resolved .
`` I have promised to marry you , Mark , and I will keep my word , '' she said .
The color came back to Isabella Clark 's face ; but Mark 's did not change .
`` Phillippa , '' said Owen , and the pain in his voice made my old heart ache bitterer than ever , `` have you ceased to love me ? ''
My dearie would have been more than human , if she could have resisted the pleading in his tone .
She said no word , but just looked at him for a moment .
We all saw the look ; her whole soul , full of love for Owen , showed out in it .
Then she turned and stood by Mark .
Owen never said a word .
He went as white as death , and started for the door .
But again Mark Foster put himself in the way .
`` Wait , '' he said .
`` She has made her choice , as I knew she would ; but I have yet to make mine .
And I choose to marry no woman whose love belongs to another living man .
Phillippa , I thought Owen Blair was dead , and I believed that , when you were my wife , I could win your love .
But I love you too well to make you miserable .
Go to the man you love -- you are free ! ''
`` And what is to become of me ? ''
wailed Isabella .
`` Oh , you !
-- I had forgotten about you , '' said Mark , kind of weary-like .
He took a paper from his pocket , and dropped it in the grate .
`` There is the mortgage .
That is all you care about , I think .
Good-morning . ''
He went out .
He was only a common fellow , but , somehow , just then he looked every inch the gentleman .
I would have gone after him and said something but -- the look on his face -- no , it was no time for my foolish old words !
Phillippa was crying , with her head on Owen 's shoulder .
Isabella Clark waited to see the mortgage burned up , and then she came to me in the hall , all smooth and smiling again .
`` Really , it 's all very romantic , is n't it ?
I suppose it 's better as it is , all things considered .
Mark behaved splendidly , did n't he ?
Not many men would have done as he did . ''
For once in my life I agreed with Isabella .
But I felt like having a good cry over it all -- and I had it .
I was glad for my dearie 's sake and Owen 's ; but Mark Foster had paid the price of their joy , and I knew it had beggared him of happiness for life .
XV .
TANNIS OF THE FLATS Few people in Avonlea could understand why Elinor Blair had never married .
She had been one of the most beautiful girls in our part of the Island and , as a woman of fifty , she was still very attractive .
In her youth she had had ever so many beaux , as we of our generation well remembered ; but , after her return from visiting her brother Tom in the Canadian Northwest , more than twenty-five years ago , she had seemed to withdraw within herself , keeping all men at a safe , though friendly , distance .
She had been a gay , laughing girl when she went West ; she came back quiet and serious , with a shadowed look in her eyes which time could not quite succeed in blotting out .
Elinor had never talked much about her visit , except to describe the scenery and the life , which in that day was rough indeed .
Not even to me , who had grown up next door to her and who had always seemed more a sister than a friend , did she speak of other than the merest commonplaces .
But when Tom Blair made a flying trip back home , some ten years later , there were one or two of us to whom he related the story of Jerome Carey , -- a story revealing only too well the reason for Elinor 's sad eyes and utter indifference to masculine attentions .
I can recall almost his exact words and the inflections of his voice , and I remember , too , that it seemed to me a far cry from the tranquil , pleasant scene before us , on that lovely summer day , to the elemental life of the Flats .
The Flats was a forlorn little trading station fifteen miles up the river from Prince Albert , with a scanty population of half-breeds and three white men .
When Jerome Carey was sent to take charge of the telegraph office there , he cursed his fate in the picturesque language permissible in the far Northwest .
Not that Carey was a profane man , even as men go in the West .
He was an English gentleman , and he kept both his life and his vocabulary pretty clean .
But -- the Flats !
Outside of the ragged cluster of log shacks , which comprised the settlement , there was always a shifting fringe of teepees where the Indians , who drifted down from the Reservation , camped with their dogs and squaws and papooses .
There are standpoints from which Indians are interesting , but they can not be said to offer congenial social attractions .
For three weeks after Carey went to the Flats he was lonelier than he had ever imagined it possible to be , even in the Great Lone Land .
If it had not been for teaching Paul Dumont the telegraphic code , Carey believed he would have been driven to suicide in self-defense .
The telegraphic importance of the Flats consisted in the fact that it was the starting point of three telegraph lines to remote trading posts up North .
Not many messages came therefrom , but the few that did come generally amounted to something worth while .
Days and even weeks would pass without a single one being clicked to the Flats .
Carey was debarred from talking over the wires to the Prince Albert man for the reason that they were on officially bad terms .
He blamed the latter for his transfer to the Flats .
Carey slept in a loft over the office , and got his meals as Joe Esquint 's , across the `` street . ''
Joe Esquint 's wife was a good cook , as cooks go among the breeds , and Carey soon became a great pet of hers .
Carey had a habit of becoming a pet with women .
He had the `` way '' that has to be born in a man and can never be acquired .
Besides , he was as handsome as clean-cut features , deep-set , dark-blue eyes , fair curls and six feet of muscle could make him .
Mrs. Joe Esquint thought that his mustache was the most wonderfully beautiful thing , in its line , that she had ever seen .
Fortunately , Mrs. Joe was so old and fat and ugly that even the malicious and inveterate gossip of skulking breeds and Indians , squatting over teepee fires , could not hint at anything questionable in the relations between her and Carey .
But it was a different matter with Tannis Dumont .
Tannis came home from the academy at Prince Albert early in July , when Carey had been at the Flats a month and had exhausted all the few novelties of his position .
Paul Dumont had already become so expert at the code that his mistakes no longer afforded Carey any fun , and the latter was getting desperate .
He had serious intentions of throwing up the business altogether , and betaking himself to an Alberta ranch , where at least one would have the excitement of roping horses .
When he saw Tannis Dumont he thought he would hang on awhile longer , anyway .
Tannis was the daughter of old Auguste Dumont , who kept the one small store at the Flats , lived in the one frame house that the place boasted , and was reputed to be worth an amount of money which , in half-breed eyes , was a colossal fortune .
Old Auguste was black and ugly and notoriously bad-tempered .
But Tannis was a beauty .
Tannis ' great-grandmother had been a Cree squaw who married a French trapper .
The son of this union became in due time the father of Auguste Dumont .
Auguste married a woman whose mother was a French half-breed and whose father was a pure-bred Highland Scotchman .
The result of this atrocious mixture was its justification -- Tannis of the Flats -- who looked as if all the blood of all the Howards might be running in her veins .
But , after all , the dominant current in those same veins was from the race of plain and prairie .
The practiced eye detected it in the slender stateliness of carriage , in the graceful , yet voluptuous , curves of the lithe body , in the smallness and delicacy of hand and foot , in the purple sheen on straight-falling masses of blue-black hair , and , more than all else , in the long , dark eye , full and soft , yet alight with a slumbering fire .
France , too , was responsible for somewhat in Tannis .
It gave her a light step in place of the stealthy half-breed shuffle , it arched her red upper lip into a more tremulous bow , it lent a note of laughter to her voice and a sprightlier wit to her tongue .
As for her red-headed Scotch grandfather , he had bequeathed her a somewhat whiter skin and ruddier bloom than is usually found in the breeds .
Old Auguste was mightily proud of Tannis .
He sent her to school for four years in Prince Albert , bound that his girl should have the best .
A High School course and considerable mingling in the social life of the town -- for old Auguste was a man to be conciliated by astute politicians , since he controlled some two or three hundred half-breed votes -- sent Tannis home to the Flats with a very thin , but very deceptive , veneer of culture and civilization overlying the primitive passions and ideas of her nature .
Carey saw only the beauty and the veneer .
He made the mistake of thinking that Tannis was what she seemed to be -- a fairly well-educated , up-to-date young woman with whom a friendly flirtation was just what it was with white womankind -- the pleasant amusement of an hour or season .
It was a mistake -- a very big mistake .
Tannis understood something of piano playing , something less of grammar and Latin , and something less still of social prevarications .
But she understood absolutely nothing of flirtation .
You can never get an Indian to see the sense of Platonics .
Carey found the Flats quite tolerable after the homecoming of Tannis .
He soon fell into the habit of dropping into the Dumont house to spend the evening , talking with Tannis in the parlor -- which apartment was amazingly well done for a place like the Flats -- Tannis had not studied Prince Albert parlors four years for nothing -- or playing violin and piano duets with her .
When music and conversation palled , they went for long gallops over the prairies together .
Tannis rode to perfection , and managed her bad-tempered brute of a pony with a skill and grace that made Carey applaud her .
She was glorious on horseback .
Sometimes he grew tired of the prairies and then he and Tannis paddled themselves over the river in Nitchie Joe 's dug-out , and landed on the old trail that struck straight into the wooded belt of the Saskatchewan valley , leading north to trading posts on the frontier of civilization .
There they rambled under huge pines , hoary with the age of centuries , and Carey talked to Tannis about England and quoted poetry to her .
Tannis liked poetry ; she had studied it at school , and understood it fairly well .
But once she told Carey that she thought it a long , round-about way of saying what you could say just as well in about a dozen plain words .
Carey laughed .
He liked to evoke those little speeches of hers .
They sounded very clever , dropping from such arched , ripely-tinted lips .
If you had told Carey that he was playing with fire he would have laughed at you .
In the first place he was not in the slightest degree in love with Tannis -- he merely admired and liked her .
In the second place , it never occurred to him that Tannis might be in love with him .
Why , he had never attempted any love-making with her !
And , above all , he was obsessed with that aforesaid fatal idea that Tannis was like the women he had associated with all his life , in reality as well as in appearance .
He did not know enough of the racial characteristics to understand .
But , if Carey thought his relationship with Tannis was that of friendship merely , he was the only one at the Flats who did think so .
All the half-breeds and quarter-breeds and any-fractional breeds there believed that he meant to marry Tannis .
There would have been nothing surprising to them in that .
They did not know that Carey 's second cousin was a baronet , and they would not have understood that it need make any difference , if they had .
They thought that rich old Auguste 's heiress , who had been to school for four years in Prince Albert , was a catch for anybody .
Old Auguste himself shrugged his shoulders over it and was well-pleased enough .
An Englishman was a prize by way of a husband for a half-breed girl , even if he were only a telegraph operator .
Young Paul Dumont worshipped Carey , and the half-Scotch mother , who might have understood , was dead .
In all the Flats there were but two people who disapproved of the match they thought an assured thing .
One of these was the little priest , Father Gabriel .
He liked Tannis , and he liked Carey ; but he shook his head dubiously when he heard the gossip of the shacks and teepees .
Religions might mingle , but the different bloods -- ah , it was not the right thing !
Tannis was a good girl , and a beautiful one ; but she was no fit mate for the fair , thorough-bred Englishman .
Father Gabriel wished fervently that Jerome Carey might soon be transferred elsewhere .
He even went to Prince Albert and did a little wire-pulling on his own account , but nothing came of it .
He was on the wrong side of politics .
The other malcontent was Lazarre M&eacute;rim&eacute;e , a lazy , besotted French half-breed , who was , after his fashion , in love with Tannis .
He could never have got her , and he knew it -- old Auguste and young Paul would have incontinently riddled him with bullets had he ventured near the house as a suitor , -- but he hated Carey none the less , and watched for a chance to do him an ill-turn .
There is no worse enemy in all the world than a half-breed .
Your true Indian is bad enough , but his diluted descendant is ten times worse .
As for Tannis , she loved Carey with all her heart , and that was all there was about it .
If Elinor Blair had never gone to Prince Albert there is no knowing what might have happened , after all .
Carey , so powerful in propinquity , might even have ended by learning to love Tannis and marrying her , to his own worldly undoing .
But Elinor did go to Prince Albert , and her going ended all things for Tannis of the Flats .
Carey met her one evening in September , when he had ridden into town to attend a dance , leaving Paul Dumont in charge of the telegraph office .
Elinor had just arrived in Prince Albert on a visit to Tom , to which she had been looking forward during the five years since he had married and moved out West from Avonlea .
As I have already said , she was very beautiful at that time , and Carey fell in love with her at the first moment of their meeting .
During the next three weeks he went to town nine times and called at the Dumonts ' only once .
There were no more rides and walks with Tannis .
This was not intentional neglect on his part .
He had simply forgotten all about her .
The breeds surmised a lover 's quarrel , but Tannis understood .
There was another woman back there in town .
It would be quite impossible to put on paper any adequate idea of her emotions at this stage .
One night , she followed Carey when he went to Prince Albert , riding out of earshot , behind him on her plains pony , but keeping him in sight .
Lazarre , in a fit of jealousy , had followed Tannis , spying on her until she started back to the Flats .
After that he watched both Carey and Tannis incessantly , and months later had told Tom all he had learned through his low sneaking .
Tannis trailed Carey to the Blair house , on the bluffs above the town , and saw him tie his horse at the gate and enter .
She , too , tied her pony to a poplar , lower down , and then crept stealthily through the willows at the side of the house until she was close to the windows .
Through one of them she could see Carey and Elinor .
The half-breed girl crouched down in the shadow and glared at her rival .
She saw the pretty , fair-tinted face , the fluffy coronal of golden hair , the blue , laughing eyes of the woman whom Jerome Carey loved , and she realized very plainly that there was nothing left to hope for .
She , Tannis of the Flats , could never compete with that other .
It was well to know so much , at least .
After a time , she crept softly away , loosed her pony , and lashed him mercilessly with her whip through the streets of the town and out the long , dusty river trail .
A man turned and looked after her as she tore past a brightly lighted store on Water Street .
`` That was Tannis of the Flats , '' he said to a companion .
`` She was in town last winter , going to school -- a beauty and a bit of the devil , like all those breed girls .
What in thunder is she riding like that for ? ''
One day , a fortnight later , Carey went over the river alone for a ramble up the northern trail , and an undisturbed dream of Elinor .
When he came back Tannis was standing at the canoe landing , under a pine tree , in a rain of finely sifted sunlight .
She was waiting for him and she said , with any preface : `` Mr. Carey , why do you never come to see me , now ? ''
Carey flushed like any girl .
Her tone and look made him feel very uncomfortable .
He remembered , self-reproachfully , that he must have seemed very neglectful , and he stammered something about having been busy .
`` Not very busy , '' said Tannis , with her terrible directness .
`` It is not that .
It is because you are going to Prince Albert to see a white woman ! ''
Even in his embarrassment Carey noted that this was the first time he had ever heard Tannis use the expression , `` a white woman , '' or any other that would indicate her sense of a difference between herself and the dominant race .
He understood , at the same moment , that this girl was not to be trifled with -- that she would have the truth out of him , first or last .
But he felt indescribably foolish .
`` I suppose so , '' he answered lamely .
`` And what about me ? ''
asked Tannis .
When you come to think of it , this was an embarrassing question , especially for Carey , who had believed that Tannis understood the game , and played it for its own sake , as he did .
`` I do n't understand you , Tannis , '' he said hurriedly .
`` You have made me love you , '' said Tannis .
The words sound flat enough on paper .
They did not sound flat to Tom , as repeated by Lazarre , and they sounded anything but flat to Carey , hurled at him as they were by a woman trembling with all the passions of her savage ancestry .
Tannis had justified her criticism of poetry .
She had said her half-dozen words , instinct with all the despair and pain and wild appeal that all the poetry in the world had ever expressed .
They made Carey feel like a scoundrel .
All at once he realized how impossible it would be to explain matters to Tannis , and that he would make a still bigger fool of himself , if he tried .
`` I am very sorry , '' he stammered , like a whipped schoolboy .
`` It is no matter , '' interrupted Tannis violently .
`` What difference does it make about me -- a half-breed girl ?
We breed girls are only born to amuse the white men .
That is so -- is it not ?
Then , when they are tired of us , they push us aside and go back to their own kind .
Oh , it is very well .
But I will not forget -- my father and brother will not forget .
They will make you sorry to some purpose ! ''
She turned , and stalked away to her canoe .
He waited under the pines until she crossed the river ; then he , too , went miserably home .
What a mess he had contrived to make of things !
Poor Tannis !
How handsome she had looked in her fury -- and how much like a squaw !
The racial marks always come out plainly under the stress of emotion , as Tom noted later .
Her threat did not disturb him .
If young Paul and old Auguste made things unpleasant for him , he thought himself more than a match for them .
It was the thought of the suffering he had brought upon Tannis that worried him .
He had not , to be sure , been a villain ; but he had been a fool , and that is almost as bad , under some circumstances .
The Dumonts , however , did not trouble him .
After all , Tannis ' four years in Prince Albert had not been altogether wasted .
She knew that white girls did not mix their male relatives up in a vendetta when a man ceased calling on them -- and she had nothing else to complain of that could be put in words .
After some reflection she concluded to hold her tongue .
She even laughed when old Auguste asked her what was up between her and her fellow , and said she had grown tired of him .
Old Auguste shrugged his shoulders resignedly .
It was just as well , maybe .
Those English sons-in-law sometimes gave themselves too many airs .
So Carey rode often to town and Tannis bided her time , and plotted futile schemes of revenge , and Lazarre Merimee scowled and got drunk -- and life went on at the Flats as usual , until the last week in October , when a big wind and rainstorm swept over the northland .
It was a bad night .
The wires were down between the Flats and Prince Albert and all communication with the outside world was cut off .
Over at Joe Esquint 's the breeds were having a carouse in honor of Joe 's birthday .
Paul Dumont had gone over , and Carey was alone in the office , smoking lazily and dreaming of Elinor .
Suddenly , above the plash of rain and whistle of wind , he heard outcries in the street .
Running to the door he was met by Mrs. Joe Esquint , who grasped him breathlessly .
`` Meestair Carey -- come quick !
Lazarre , he kill Paul -- they fight ! ''
Carey , with a smothered oath , rushed across the street .
He had been afraid of something of the sort , and had advised Paul not to go , for those half-breed carouses almost always ended in a free fight .
He burst into the kitchen at Joe Esquint 's , to find a circle of mute spectators ranged around the room and Paul and Lazarre in a clinch in the center .
Carey was relieved to find it was only an affair of fists .
He promptly hurled himself at the combatants and dragged Paul away , while Mrs. Joe Esquint -- Joe himself being dead-drunk in a corner -- flung her fat arms about Lazarre and held him back .
`` Stop this , '' said Carey sternly .
`` Let me get at him , '' foamed Paul .
`` He insulted my sister .
He said that you -- let me get at him ! ''
He could not writhe free from Carey 's iron grip .
Lazarre , with a snarl like a wolf , sent Mrs. Joe spinning , and rushed at Paul .
Carey struck out as best he could , and Lazarre went reeling back against the table .
It went over with a crash and the light went out !
Mrs. Joe 's shrieks might have brought the roof down .
In the confusion that ensued , two pistol shots rang out sharply .
There was a cry , a groan , a fall -- then a rush for the door .
When Mrs. Joe Esquint 's sister-in-law , Marie , dashed in with another lamp , Mrs. Joe was still shrieking , Paul Dumont was leaning sickly against the wall with a dangling arm , and Carey lay face downward on the floor , with blood trickling from under him .
Marie Esquint was a woman of nerve .
She told Mrs. Joe to shut up , and she turned Carey over .
He was conscious , but seemed dazed and could not help himself .
Marie put a coat under his head , told Paul to lie down on the bench , ordered Mrs. Joe to get a bed ready , and went for the doctor .
It happened that there was a doctor at the Flats that night -- a Prince Albert man who had been up at the Reservation , fixing up some sick Indians , and had been stormstaid at old Auguste 's on his way back .
Marie soon returned with the doctor , old Auguste , and Tannis .
Carey was carried in and laid on Mrs. Esquint 's bed .
The doctor made a brief examination , while Mrs. Joe sat on the floor and howled at the top of her lungs .
Then he shook his head .
`` Shot in the back , '' he said briefly .
`` How long ? ''
asked Carey , understanding .
`` Perhaps till morning , '' answered the doctor .
Mrs. Joe gave a louder howl than ever at this , and Tannis came and stood by the bed .
The doctor , knowing that he could do nothing for Carey , hurried into the kitchen to attend to Paul , who had a badly shattered arm , and Marie went with him .
Carey looked stupidly at Tannis .
`` Send for her , '' he said .
Tannis smiled cruelly .
`` There is no way .
The wires are down , and there is no man at the Flats who will go to town to-night , '' she answered .
`` My God , I MUST see her before I die , '' burst out Carey pleadingly .
`` Where is Father Gabriel ?
HE will go . ''
`` The priest went to town last night and has not come back , '' said Tannis .
Carey groaned and shut his eyes .
If Father Gabriel was away , there was indeed no one to go .
Old Auguste and the doctor could not leave Paul and he knew well that no breed of them all at the Flats would turn out on such a night , even if they were not , one and all , mortally scared of being mixed up in the law and justice that would be sure to follow the affair .
He must die without seeing Elinor .
Tannis looked inscrutably down on the pale face on Mrs. Joe Esquint 's dirty pillows .
Her immobile features gave no sign of the conflict raging within her .
After a short space she turned and went out , shutting the door softly on the wounded man and Mrs. Joe , whose howls had now simmered down to whines .
In the next room , Paul was crying out with pain as the doctor worked on his arm , but Tannis did not go to him .
Instead , she slipped out and hurried down the stormy street to old Auguste 's stable .
Five minutes later she was galloping down the black , wind-lashed river trail , on her way to town , to bring Elinor Blair to her lover 's deathbed .
I hold that no woman ever did anything more unselfish than this deed of Tannis !
For the sake of love she put under her feet the jealousy and hatred that had clamored at her heart .
She held , not only revenge , but the dearer joy of watching by Carey to the last , in the hollow of her hand , and she cast both away that the man she loved might draw his dying breath somewhat easier .
In a white woman the deed would have been merely commendable .
In Tannis of the Flats , with her ancestry and tradition , it was lofty self-sacrifice .
It was eight o'clock when Tannis left the Flats ; it was ten when she drew bridle before the house on the bluff .
Elinor was regaling Tom and his wife with Avonlea gossip when the maid came to the door .
`` Pleas 'm , there 's a breed girl out on the verandah and she 's asking for Miss Blair . ''
Elinor went out wonderingly , followed by Tom .
Tannis , whip in hand , stood by the open door , with the stormy night behind her , and the warm ruby light of the hall lamp showering over her white face and the long rope of drenched hair that fell from her bare head .
She looked wild enough .
`` Jerome Carey was shot in a quarrel at Joe Esquint 's to-night , '' she said .
`` He is dying -- he wants you -- I have come for you . ''
Elinor gave a little cry , and steadied herself on Tom 's shoulder .
Tom said he knew he made some exclamation of horror .
He had never approved of Carey 's attentions to Elinor , but such news was enough to shock anybody .
He was determined , however , that Elinor should not go out in such a night and to such a scene , and told Tannis so in no uncertain terms .
`` I came through the storm , '' said Tannis , contemptuously .
`` Can not she do as much for him as I can ? ''
The good , old Island blood in Elinor 's veins showed to some purpose .
`` Yes , '' she answered firmly .
`` No , Tom , do n't object -- I must go .
Get my horse -- and your own . ''
Ten minutes later three riders galloped down the bluff road and took the river trail .
Fortunately the wind was at their backs and the worst of the storm was over .
Still , it was a wild , black ride enough .
Tom rode , cursing softly under his breath .
He did not like the whole thing -- Carey done to death in some low half-breed shack , this handsome , sullen girl coming as his messenger , this nightmare ride , through wind and rain .
It all savored too much of melodrama , even for the Northland , where people still did things in a primitive way .
He heartily wished Elinor had never left Avonlea .
It was past twelve when they reached the Flats .
Tannis was the only one who seemed to be able to think coherently .
It was she who told Tom where to take the horses and then led Elinor to the room where Carey was dying .
The doctor was sitting by the bedside and Mrs. Joe was curled up in a corner , sniffling to herself .
Tannis took her by the shoulder and turned her , none too gently , out of the room .
The doctor , understanding , left at once .
As Tannis shut the door she saw Elinor sink on her knees by the bed , and Carey 's trembling hand go out to her head .
Tannis sat down on the floor outside of the door and wrapped herself up in a shawl Marie Esquint had dropped .
In that attitude she looked exactly like a squaw , and all comers and goers , even old Auguste , who was hunting for her , thought she was one , and left her undisturbed .
She watched there until dawn came whitely up over the prairies and Jerome Carey died .
She knew when it happened by Elinor 's cry .
Tannis sprang up and rushed in .
She was too late for even a parting look .
The girl took Carey 's hand in hers , and turned to the weeping Elinor with a cold dignity .
`` Now go , '' she said .
`` You had him in life to the very last .
He is mine now . ''
`` There must be some arrangements made , '' faltered Elinor .
`` My father and brother will make all arrangements , as you call them , '' said Tannis steadily .
`` He had no near relatives in the world -- none at all in Canada -- he told me so .
You may send out a Protestant minister from town , if you like ; but he will be buried here at the Flats and his grave with be mine -- all mine !
Go ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Kilmeny_of_the_Orchard.txt.out
KILMENY OF THE ORCHARD CHAPTER I .
THE THOUGHTS OF YOUTH The sunshine of a day in early spring , honey pale and honey sweet , was showering over the red brick buildings of Queenslea College and the grounds about them , throwing through the bare , budding maples and elms , delicate , evasive etchings of gold and brown on the paths , and coaxing into life the daffodils that were peering greenly and perkily up under the windows of the co-eds ' dressing-room .
A young April wind , as fresh and sweet as if it had been blowing over the fields of memory instead of through dingy streets , was purring in the tree-tops and whipping the loose tendrils of the ivy network which covered the front of the main building .
It was a wind that sang of many things , but what it sang to each listener was only what was in that listener 's heart .
To the college students who had just been capped and diplomad by `` Old Charlie , '' the grave president of Queenslea , in the presence of an admiring throng of parents and sisters , sweethearts and friends , it sang , perchance , of glad hope and shining success and high achievement .
It sang of the dreams of youth that may never be quite fulfilled , but are well worth the dreaming for all that .
God help the man who has never known such dreams -- who , as he leaves his alma mater , is not already rich in aerial castles , the proprietor of many a spacious estate in Spain .
He has missed his birthright .
The crowd streamed out of the entrance hall and scattered over the campus , fraying off into the many streets beyond .
Eric Marshall and David Baker walked away together .
The former had graduated in Arts that day at the head of his class ; the latter had come to see the graduation , nearly bursting with pride in Eric 's success .
Between these two was an old and tried and enduring friendship , although David was ten years older than Eric , as the mere tale of years goes , and a hundred years older in knowledge of the struggles and difficulties of life which age a man far more quickly and effectually than the passing of time .
Physically the two men bore no resemblance to one another , although they were second cousins .
Eric Marshall , tall , broad-shouldered , sinewy , walking with a free , easy stride , which was somehow suggestive of reserve strength and power , was one of those men regarding whom less-favoured mortals are tempted seriously to wonder why all the gifts of fortune should be showered on one individual .
He was not only clever and good to look upon , but he possessed that indefinable charm of personality which is quite independent of physical beauty or mental ability .
He had steady , grayish-blue eyes , dark chestnut hair with a glint of gold in its waves when the sunlight struck it , and a chin that gave the world assurance of a chin .
He was a rich man 's son , with a clean young manhood behind him and splendid prospects before him .
He was considered a practical sort of fellow , utterly guiltless of romantic dreams and visions of any sort .
`` I am afraid Eric Marshall will never do one quixotic thing , '' said a Queenslea professor , who had a habit of uttering rather mysterious epigrams , `` but if he ever does it will supply the one thing lacking in him . ''
David Baker was a short , stocky fellow with an ugly , irregular , charming face ; his eyes were brown and keen and secretive ; his mouth had a comical twist which became sarcastic , or teasing , or winning , as he willed .
His voice was generally as soft and musical as a woman 's ; but some few who had seen David Baker righteously angry and heard the tones which then issued from his lips were in no hurry to have the experience repeated .
He was a doctor -- a specialist in troubles of the throat and voice -- and he was beginning to have a national reputation .
He was on the staff of the Queenslea Medical College and it was whispered that before long he would be called to fill an important vacancy at McGill .
He had won his way to success through difficulties and drawbacks which would have daunted most men .
In the year Eric was born David Baker was an errand boy in the big department store of Marshall & Company .
Thirteen years later he graduated with high honors from Queenslea Medical College .
Mr. Marshall had given him all the help which David 's sturdy pride could be induced to accept , and now he insisted on sending the young man abroad for a post-graduate course in London and Germany .
David Baker had eventually repaid every cent Mr. Marshall had expended on him ; but he never ceased to cherish a passionate gratitude to the kind and generous man ; and he loved that man 's son with a love surpassing that of brothers .
He had followed Eric 's college course with keen , watchful interest .
It was his wish that Eric should take up the study of law or medicine now that he was through Arts ; and he was greatly disappointed that Eric should have finally made up his mind to go into business with his father .
`` It 's a clean waste of your talents , '' he grumbled , as they walked home from the college .
`` You 'd win fame and distinction in law -- that glib tongue of yours was meant for a lawyer and it is sheer flying in the face of Providence to devote it to commercial uses -- a flat crossing of the purposes of destiny .
Where is your ambition , man ? ''
`` In the right place , '' answered Eric , with his ready laugh .
`` It is not your kind , perhaps , but there is room and need for all kinds in this lusty young country of ours .
Yes , I am going into the business .
In the first place , it has been father 's cherished desire ever since I was born , and it would hurt him pretty badly if I backed out now .
He wished me to take an Arts course because he believed that every man should have as liberal an education as he can afford to get , but now that I have had it he wants me in the firm . ''
`` He would n't oppose you if he thought you really wanted to go in for something else . ''
`` Not he .
But I do n't really want to -- that 's the point , David , man .
You hate a business life so much yourself that you ca n't get it into your blessed noddle that another man might like it .
There are many lawyers in the world -- too many , perhaps -- but there are never too many good honest men of business , ready to do clean big things for the betterment of humanity and the upbuilding of their country , to plan great enterprises and carry them through with brain and courage , to manage and control , to aim high and strike one 's aim .
There , I 'm waxing eloquent , so I 'd better stop .
But ambition , man !
Why , I 'm full of it -- it 's bubbling in every pore of me .
I mean to make the department store of Marshall & Company famous from ocean to ocean .
Father started in life as a poor boy from a Nova Scotian farm .
He has built up a business that has a provincial reputation .
I mean to carry it on .
In five years it shall have a maritime reputation , in ten , a Canadian .
I want to make the firm of Marshall & Company stand for something big in the commercial interests of Canada .
Is n't that as honourable an ambition as trying to make black seem white in a court of law , or discovering some new disease with a harrowing name to torment poor creatures who might otherwise die peacefully in blissful ignorance of what ailed them ? ''
`` When you begin to make poor jokes it is time to stop arguing with you , '' said David , with a shrug of his fat shoulders .
`` Go your own gait and dree your own weird .
I 'd as soon expect success in trying to storm the citadel single-handed as in trying to turn you from any course about which you had once made up your mind .
Whew , this street takes it out of a fellow !
What could have possessed our ancestors to run a town up the side of a hill ?
I 'm not so slim and active as I was on MY graduation day ten years ago .
By the way , what a lot of co-eds were in your class -- twenty , if I counted right .
When I graduated there were only two ladies in our class and they were the pioneers of their sex at Queenslea .
They were well past their first youth , very grim and angular and serious ; and they could never have been on speaking terms with a mirror in their best days .
But mark you , they were excellent females -- oh , very excellent .
Times have changed with a vengeance , judging from the line-up of co-eds to-day .
There was one girl there who ca n't be a day over eighteen -- and she looked as if she were made out of gold and roseleaves and dewdrops . ''
`` The oracle speaks in poetry , '' laughed Eric .
`` That was Florence Percival , who led the class in mathematics , as I 'm a living man .
By many she is considered the beauty of her class .
I ca n't say that such is my opinion .
I do n't greatly care for that blonde , babyish style of loveliness -- I prefer Agnes Campion .
Did you notice her -- the tall , dark girl with the ropes of hair and a sort of crimson , velvety bloom on her face , who took honours in philosophy ? ''
`` I DID notice her , '' said David emphatically , darting a keen side glance at his friend .
`` I noticed her most particularly and critically -- for someone whispered her name behind me and coupled it with the exceedingly interesting information that Miss Campion was supposed to be the future Mrs. Eric Marshall .
Whereupon I stared at her with all my eyes . ''
`` There is no truth in that report , '' said Eric in a tone of annoyance .
`` Agnes and I are the best of friends and nothing more .
I like and admire her more than any woman I know ; but if the future Mrs. Eric Marshall exists in the flesh I have n't met her yet .
I have n't even started out to look for her -- and do n't intend to for some years to come .
I have something else to think of , '' he concluded , in a tone of contempt , for which anyone might have known he would be punished sometime if Cupid were not deaf as well as blind .
`` You 'll meet the lady of the future some day , '' said David dryly .
`` And in spite of your scorn I venture to predict that if fate does n't bring her before long you 'll very soon start out to look for her .
A word of advice , oh , son of your mother .
When you go courting take your common sense with you . ''
`` Do you think I shall be likely to leave it behind ? ''
asked Eric amusedly .
`` Well , I mistrust you , '' said David , sagely wagging his head .
`` The Lowland Scotch part of you is all right , but there 's a Celtic streak in you , from that little Highland grandmother of yours , and when a man has that there 's never any knowing where it will break out , or what dance it will lead him , especially when it comes to this love-making business .
You are just as likely as not to lose your head over some little fool or shrew for the sake of her outward favour and make yourself miserable for life .
When you pick you a wife please remember that I shall reserve the right to pass a candid opinion on her . ''
`` Pass all the opinions you like , but it is MY opinion , and mine only , which will matter in the long run , '' retorted Eric .
`` Confound you , yes , you stubborn offshoot of a stubborn breed , '' growled David , looking at him affectionately .
`` I know that , and that is why I 'll never feel at ease about you until I see you married to the right sort of a girl .
She 's not hard to find .
Nine out of ten girls in this country of ours are fit for kings ' palaces .
But the tenth always has to be reckoned with . ''
`` You are as bad as Clever Alice in the fairy tale who worried over the future of her unborn children , '' protested Eric . ''
Clever Alice has been very unjustly laughed at , '' said David gravely .
`` We doctors know that .
Perhaps she overdid the worrying business a little , but she was perfectly right in principle .
If people worried a little more about their unborn children -- at least , to the extent of providing a proper heritage , physically , mentally , and morally , for them -- and then stopped worrying about them after they ARE born , this world would be a very much pleasanter place to live in , and the human race would make more progress in a generation than it has done in recorded history . ''
`` Oh , if you are going to mount your dearly beloved hobby of heredity I am not going to argue with you , David , man .
But as for the matter of urging me to hasten and marry me a wife , why do n't you '' -- It was on Eric 's lips to say , `` Why do n't you get married to a girl of the right sort yourself and set me a good example ? ''
But he checked himself .
He knew that there was an old sorrow in David Baker 's life which was not to be unduly jarred by the jests even of privileged friendship .
He changed his question to , `` Why do n't you leave this on the knees of the gods where it properly belongs ?
I thought you were a firm believer in predestination , David . ''
`` Well , so I am , to a certain extent , '' said David cautiously .
`` I believe , as an excellent old aunt of mine used to say , that what is to be will be and what is n't to be happens sometimes .
And it is precisely such unchancy happenings that make the scheme of things go wrong .
I dare say you think me an old fogy , Eric ; but I know something more of the world than you do , and I believe , with Tennyson 's Arthur , that ` there 's no more subtle master under heaven than is the maiden passion for a maid . '
I want to see you safely anchored to the love of some good woman as soon as may be , that 's all .
I 'm rather sorry Miss Campion is n't your lady of the future .
I liked her looks , that I did .
She is good and strong and true -- and has the eyes of a woman who could love in a way that would be worth while .
Moreover , she 's well-born , well-bred , and well-educated -- three very indispensable things when it comes to choosing a woman to fill your mother 's place , friend of mine ! ''
`` I agree with you , '' said Eric carelessly .
`` I could not marry any woman who did not fulfill those conditions .
But , as I have said , I am not in love with Agnes Campion -- and it would n't be of any use if I were .
She is as good as engaged to Larry West .
You remember West ? ''
`` That thin , leggy fellow you chummed with so much your first two years in Queenslea ?
Yes , what has become of him ? ''
`` He had to drop out after his second year for financial reasons .
He is working his own way through college , you know .
For the past two years he has been teaching school in some out-of-the-way place over in Prince Edward Island .
He is n't any too well , poor fellow -- never was very strong and has studied remorselessly .
I have n't heard from him since February .
He said then that he was afraid he was n't going to be able to stick it out till the end of the school year .
I hope Larry wo n't break down .
He is a fine fellow and worthy even of Agnes Campion .
Well , here we are .
Coming in , David ? ''
`` Not this afternoon -- have n't got time .
I must mosey up to the North End to see a man who has got a lovely throat .
Nobody can find out what is the matter .
He has puzzled all the doctors .
He has puzzled me , but I 'll find out what is wrong with him if he 'll only live long enough . ''
CHAPTER II .
A LETTER OF DESTINY Eric , finding that his father had not yet returned from the college , went into the library and sat down to read a letter he had picked up from the hall table .
It was from Larry West , and after the first few lines Eric 's face lost the absent look it had worn and assumed an expression of interest .
`` I am writing to ask a favour of you , Marshall , '' wrote West .
`` The fact is , I 've fallen into the hands of the Philistines -- that is to say , the doctors .
I 've not been feeling very fit all winter but I 've held on , hoping to finish out the year .
`` Last week my landlady -- who is a saint in spectacles and calico -- looked at me one morning at the breakfast table and said , VERY gently , ` You must go to town to-morrow , Master , and see a doctor about yourself . '
`` I went and did not stand upon the order of my going .
Mrs. Williamson is She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed .
She has an inconvenient habit of making you realize that she is exactly right , and that you would be all kinds of a fool if you did n't take her advice .
You feel that what she thinks to-day you will think to-morrow .
`` In Charlottetown I consulted a doctor .
He punched and pounded me , and poked things at me and listened at the other end of them ; and finally he said I must stop work ` immejutly and to onct ' and hie me straightway to a climate not afflicted with the north-east winds of Prince Edward Island in the spring .
I am not to be allowed to do any work until the fall .
Such was his dictum and Mrs. Williamson enforces it .
`` I shall teach this week out and then the spring vacation of three weeks begins .
I want you to come over and take my place as pedagogue in the Lindsay school for the last week in May and the month of June .
The school year ends then and there will be plenty of teachers looking for the place , but just now I can not get a suitable substitute .
I have a couple of pupils who are preparing to try the Queen 's Academy entrance examinations , and I do n't like to leave them in the lurch or hand them over to the tender mercies of some third-class teacher who knows little Latin and less Greek .
Come over and take the school till the end of the term , you petted son of luxury .
It will do you a world of good to learn how rich a man feels when he is earning twenty-five dollars a month by his own unaided efforts !
`` Seriously , Marshall , I hope you can come , for I do n't know any other fellow I can ask .
The work is n't hard , though you 'll likely find it monotonous .
Of course , this little north-shore farming settlement is n't a very lively place .
The rising and setting of the sun are the most exciting events of the average day .
But the people are very kind and hospitable ; and Prince Edward Island in the month of June is such a thing as you do n't often see except in happy dreams .
There are some trout in the pond and you 'll always find an old salt at the harbour ready and willing to take you out cod-fishing or lobstering .
`` I 'll bequeath you my boarding house .
You 'll find it comfortable and not further from the school than a good constitutional .
Mrs. Williamson is the dearest soul alive ; and she is one of those old-fashioned cooks who feed you on feasts of fat things and whose price is above rubies .
`` Her husband , Robert , or Bob , as he is commonly called despite his sixty years , is quite a character in his way .
He is an amusing old gossip , with a turn for racy comment and a finger in everybody 's pie .
He knows everything about everybody in Lindsay for three generations back .
`` They have no living children , but Old Bob has a black cat which is his especial pride and darling .
The name of this animal is Timothy and as such he must always be called and referred to .
Never , as you value Robert 's good opinion , let him hear you speaking of his pet as ` the cat , ' or even as ` Tim . '
You will never be forgiven and he will not consider you a fit person to have charge of the school .
`` You shall have my room , a little place over the kitchen , with a ceiling that follows the slant of the roof down one side , against which you will bump your head times innumerable until you learn to remember that it is there , and a looking glass which will make one of your eyes as small as a pea and the other as big as an orange .
`` But to compensate for these disadvantages the supply of towels is generous and unexceptionable ; and there is a window whence you will daily behold an occidental view over Lindsay Harbour and the gulf beyond which is an unspeakable miracle of beauty .
The sun is setting over it as I write and I see such a sea of glass mingled with fire as might have figured in the visions of the Patmian seer .
A vessel is sailing away into the gold and crimson and pearl of the horizon ; the big revolving light on the tip of the headland beyond the harbour has just been lighted and is winking and flashing like a beacon , '' ` O'er the foam Of perilous seas in faerie lands forlorn . ' ''
`` Wire me if you can come ; and if you can , report for duty on the twenty-third of May . ''
Mr. Marshall , Senior , came in , just as Eric was thoughtfully folding up his letter .
The former looked more like a benevolent old clergyman or philanthropist than the keen , shrewd , somewhat hard , although just and honest , man of business that he really was .
He had a round , rosy face , fringed with white whiskers , a fine head of long white hair , and a pursed-up mouth .
Only in his blue eyes was a twinkle that would have made any man who designed getting the better of him in a bargain think twice before he made the attempt .
It was easily seen that Eric must have inherited his personal beauty and distinction of form from his mother , whose picture hung on the dark wall between the windows .
She had died while still young , when Eric was a boy of ten .
During her lifetime she had been the object of the passionate devotion of both her husband and son ; and the fine , strong , sweet face of the picture was a testimony that she had been worthy of their love and reverence .
The same face , cast in a masculine mold , was repeated in Eric ; the chestnut hair grew off his forehead in the same way ; his eyes were like hers , and in his grave moods they held a similar expression , half brooding , half tender , in their depths .
Mr. Marshall was very proud of his son 's success in college , but he had no intention of letting him see it .
He loved this boy of his , with the dead mother 's eyes , better than anything on earth , and all his hopes and ambitions were bound up in him .
`` Well , that fuss is over , thank goodness , '' he said testily , as he dropped into his favourite chair .
`` Did n't you find the programme interesting ? ''
asked Eric absently .
`` Most of it was tommyrot , '' said his father .
`` The only things I liked were Charlie 's Latin prayer and those pretty little girls trotting up to get their diplomas .
Latin IS the language for praying in , I do believe , -- at least , when a man has a voice like Old Charlie 's .
There was such a sonorous roll to the words that the mere sound of them made me feel like getting down on my marrow bones .
And then those girls were as pretty as pinks , now were n't they ?
Agnes was the finest-looking of the lot in my opinion .
I hope it 's true that you 're courting her , Eric ? ''
`` Confound it , father , '' said Eric , half irritably , half laughingly , `` have you and David Baker entered into a conspiracy to hound me into matrimony whether I will or no ? ''
`` I 've never said a word to David Baker on such a subject , '' protested Mr. Marshall .
`` Well , you are just as bad as he is .
He hectored me all the way home from the college on the subject .
But why are you in such a hurry to have me married , dad ? ''
`` Because I want a homemaker in this house as soon as may be .
There has never been one since your mother died .
I am tired of housekeepers .
And I want to see your children at my knees before I die , Eric , and I 'm an old man now . ''
`` Well , your wish is natural , father , '' said Eric gently , with a glance at his mother 's picture .
`` But I ca n't rush out and marry somebody off-hand , can I ?
And I fear it would n't exactly do to advertise for a wife , even in these days of commercial enterprise . ''
`` Is n't there ANYBODY you 're fond of ? ''
queried Mr. Marshall , with the patient air of a man who overlooks the frivolous jests of youth .
`` No .
I never yet saw the woman who could make my heart beat any faster . ''
`` I do n't know what you young men are made of nowadays , '' growled his father .
`` I was in love half a dozen times before I was your age . ''
`` You might have been ` in love . '
But you never LOVED any woman until you met my mother .
I know that , father .
And it did n't happen till you were pretty well on in life either . ''
`` You 're too hard to please .
That 's what 's the matter , that 's what 's the matter ! ''
`` Perhaps I am .
When a man has had a mother like mine his standard of womanly sweetness is apt to be pitched pretty high .
Let 's drop the subject , father .
Here , I want you to read this letter -- it 's from Larry . ''
`` Humph ! ''
grunted Mr. Marshall , when he had finished with it .
`` So Larry 's knocked out at last -- always thought he would be -- always expected it .
Sorry , too .
He was a decent fellow .
Well , are you going ? ''
`` Yes , I think so , if you do n't object . ''
`` You 'll have a pretty monotonous time of it , judging from his account of Lindsay . ''
`` Probably .
But I am not going over in search of excitement .
I 'm going to oblige Larry and have a look at the Island . ''
`` Well , it 's worth looking at , some parts of the year , '' conceded Mr. Marshall .
`` When I 'm on Prince Edward Island in the summer I always understand an old Scotch Islander I met once in Winnipeg .
He was always talking of ` the Island . '
Somebody once asked him , ` What island do you mean ? '
He simply LOOKED at that ignorant man .
Then he said , ` Why , Prince Edward Island , mon. .
WHAT OTHER ISLAND IS THERE ? '
Go if you 'd like to .
You need a rest after the grind of examinations before settling down to business .
And mind you do n't get into any mischief , young sir . ''
`` Not much likelihood of that in a place like Lindsay , I fancy , '' laughed Eric .
`` Probably the devil finds as much mischief for idle hands in Lindsay as anywhere else .
The worst tragedy I ever heard of happened on a backwoods farm , fifteen miles from a railroad and five from a store .
However , I expect your mother 's son to behave himself in the fear of God and man .
In all likelihood the worst thing that will happen to you over there will be that some misguided woman will put you to sleep in a spare room bed .
And if that does happen may the Lord have mercy on your soul ! ''
CHAPTER III .
THE MASTER OF LINDSAY SCHOOL One evening , a month later , Eric Marshall came out of the old , white-washed schoolhouse at Lindsay , and locked the door -- which was carved over with initials innumerable , and built of double plank in order that it might withstand all the assaults and batteries to which it might be subjected .
Eric 's pupils had gone home an hour before , but he had stayed to solve some algebra problems , and correct some Latin exercises for his advanced students .
The sun was slanting in warm yellow lines through the thick grove of maples to the west of the building , and the dim green air beneath them burst into golden bloom .
A couple of sheep were nibbling the lush grass in a far corner of the play-ground ; a cow-bell , somewhere in the maple woods , tinkled faintly and musically , on the still crystal air , which , in spite of its blandness , still retained a touch of the wholesome austerity and poignancy of a Canadian spring .
The whole world seemed to have fallen , for the time being , into a pleasant untroubled dream .
The scene was very peaceful and pastoral -- almost too much so , the young man thought , with a shrug of his shoulders , as he stood in the worn steps and gazed about him .
How was he going to put in a whole month here , he wondered , with a little smile at his own expense .
`` Father would chuckle if he knew I was sick of it already , '' he thought , as he walked across the play-ground to the long red road that ran past the school .
`` Well , one week is ended , at any rate .
I 've earned my own living for five whole days , and that is something I could never say before in all my twenty-four years of existence .
It is an exhilarating thought .
But teaching the Lindsay district school is distinctly NOT exhilarating -- at least in such a well-behaved school as this , where the pupils are so painfully good that I have n't even the traditional excitement of thrashing obstreperous bad boys .
Everything seems to go by clock work in Lindsay educational institution .
Larry must certainly have possessed a marked gift for organizing and drilling .
I feel as if I were merely a big cog in an orderly machine that ran itself .
However , I understand that there are some pupils who have n't shown up yet , and who , according to all reports , have not yet had the old Adam totally drilled out of them .
They may make things more interesting .
Also a few more compositions , such as John Reid 's , would furnish some spice to professional life . ''
Eric 's laughter wakened the echoes as he swung into the road down the long sloping hill .
He had given his fourth grade pupils their own choice of subjects in the composition class that morning , and John Reid , a sober , matter-of-fact little urchin , with not the slightest embryonic development of a sense of humour , had , acting upon the whispered suggestion of a roguish desk-mate , elected to write upon `` Courting . ''
His opening sentence made Eric 's face twitch mutinously whenever he recalled it during the day .
`` Courting is a very pleasant thing which a great many people go too far with . ''
The distant hills and wooded uplands were tremulous and aerial in delicate spring-time gauzes of pearl and purple .
The young , green-leafed maples crowded thickly to the very edge of the road on either side , but beyond them were emerald fields basking in sunshine , over which cloud shadows rolled , broadened , and vanished .
Far below the fields a calm ocean slept bluely , and sighed in its sleep , with the murmur that rings for ever in the ear of those whose good fortune it is to have been born within the sound of it .
Now and then Eric met some callow , check-shirted , bare-legged lad on horseback , or a shrewd-faced farmer in a cart , who nodded and called out cheerily , `` Howdy , Master ? ''
A young girl , with a rosy , oval face , dimpled cheeks , and pretty dark eyes filled with shy coquetry , passed him , looking as if she would not be at all averse to a better acquaintance with the new teacher .
Half way down the hill Eric met a shambling , old gray horse drawing an express wagon which had seen better days .
The driver was a woman : she appeared to be one of those drab-tinted individuals who can never have felt a rosy emotion in all their lives .
She stopped her horse , and beckoned Eric over to her with the knobby handle of a faded and bony umbrella .
`` Reckon you 're the new Master , ai n't you ? ''
she asked .
Eric admitted that he was .
`` Well , I 'm glad to see you , '' she said , offering him a hand in a much darned cotton glove that had once been black .
`` I was right sorry to see Mr. West go , for he was a right good teacher , and as harmless , inoffensive a creetur as ever lived .
But I always told him every time I laid eyes on him that he was in consumption , if ever a man was .
YOU look real healthy -- though you ca n't aways tell by looks , either .
I had a brother complected like you , but he was killed in a railroad accident out west when he was real young .
`` I 've got a boy I 'll be sending to school to you next week .
He 'd oughter gone this week , but I had to keep him home to help me put the pertaters in ; for his father wo n't work and does n't work and ca n't be made to work .
`` Sandy -- his full name is Edward Alexander -- called after both his grandfathers -- hates the idee of going to school worse 'n pisen -- always did .
But go he shall , for I 'm determined he 's got to have more larning hammered into his head yet .
I reckon you 'll have trouble with him , Master , for he 's as stupid as an owl , and as stubborn as Solomon 's mule .
But mind this , Master , I 'll back you up .
You just lick Sandy good and plenty when he needs it , and send me a scrape of the pen home with him , and I 'll give him another dose .
`` There 's people that always sides in with their young ones when there 's any rumpus kicked up in the school , but I do n't hold to that , and never did .
You can depend on Rebecca Reid every time , Master . ''
`` Thank you .
I am sure I can , '' said Eric , in his most winning tones .
He kept his face straight until it was safe to relax , and Mrs. Reid drove on with a soft feeling in her leathery old heart , which had been so toughened by long endurance of poverty and toil , and a husband who would n't work and could n't be made to work , that it was no longer a very susceptible organ where members of the opposite sex were concerned .
Mrs. Reid reflected that this young man had a way with him .
Eric already knew most of the Lindsay folks by sight ; but at the foot of the hill he met two people , a man and a boy , whom he did not know .
They were sitting in a shabby , old-fashioned wagon , and were watering their horse at the brook , which gurgled limpidly under the little plank bridge in the hollow .
Eric surveyed them with some curiosity .
They did not look in the least like the ordinary run of Lindsay people .
The boy , in particular , had a distinctly foreign appearance , in spite of the gingham shirt and homespun trousers , which seemed to be the regulation , work-a-day outfit for the Lindsay farmer lads .
He had a lithe , supple body , with sloping shoulders , and a lean , satiny brown throat above his open shirt collar .
His head was covered with thick , silky , black curls , and the hand that hung down by the side of the wagon was unusually long and slender .
His face was richly , though somewhat heavily featured , olive tinted , save for the cheeks , which had a dusky crimson bloom .
His mouth was as red and beguiling as a girl 's , and his eyes were large , bold and black .
All in all , he was a strikingly handsome fellow ; but the expression of his face was sullen , and he somehow gave Eric the impression of a sinuous , feline creature basking in lazy grace , but ever ready for an unexpected spring .
The other occupant of the wagon was a man between sixty-five and seventy , with iron-gray hair , a long , full , gray beard , a harsh-featured face , and deep-set hazel eyes under bushy , bristling brows .
He was evidently tall , with a spare , ungainly figure , and stooping shoulders .
His mouth was close-lipped and relentless , and did not look as if it had ever smiled .
Indeed , the idea of smiling could not be connected with this man -- it was utterly incongruous .
Yet there was nothing repellent about his face ; and there was something in it that compelled Eric 's attention .
He rather prided himself on being a student of physiognomy , and he felt quite sure that this man was no ordinary Lindsay farmer of the genial , garrulous type with which he was familiar .
Long after the old wagon , with its oddly assorted pair , had gone lumbering up the hill , Eric found himself thinking of the stern , heavy browed man and the black-eyed , red-lipped boy .
CHAPTER IV .
A TEA TABLE CONVERSATION The Williamson place , where Eric boarded , was on the crest of the succeeding hill .
He liked it as well as Larry West had prophesied that he would .
The Williamsons , as well as the rest of the Lindsay people , took it for granted that he was a poor college student working his way through as Larry West had been doing .
Eric did not disturb this belief , although he said nothing to contribute to it .
The Williamsons were at tea in the kitchen when Eric went in .
Mrs. Williamson was the `` saint in spectacles and calico '' which Larry West had termed her .
Eric liked her greatly .
She was a slight , gray-haired woman , with a thin , sweet , high-bred face , deeply lined with the records of outlived pain .
She talked little as a rule ; but , in the pungent country phrase she never spoke but she said something .
The one thing that constantly puzzled Eric was how such a woman ever came to marry Robert Williamson .
She smiled in a motherly fashion at Eric , as he hung his hat on the white-washed wall and took his place at the table .
Outside of the window behind him was a birch grove which , in the westering sun , was a tremulous splendour , with a sea of undergrowth wavered into golden billows by every passing wind .
Old Robert Williamson sat opposite him , on a bench .
He was a small , lean old man , half lost in loose clothes that seemed far too large for him .
When he spoke his voice was as thin and squeaky as he appeared to be himself .
The other end of the bench was occupied by Timothy , sleek and complacent , with a snowy breast and white paws .
After old Robert had taken a mouthful of anything he gave a piece to Timothy , who ate it daintily and purred resonant gratitude .
`` You see we 're busy waiting for you , Master , '' said old Robert .
`` You 're late this evening .
Keep any of the youngsters in ?
That 's a foolish way of punishing them , as hard on yourself as on them .
One teacher we had four years ago used to lock them in and go home .
Then he 'd go back in an hour and let them out -- if they were there .
They were n't always .
Tom Ferguson kicked the panels out of the old door once and got out that way .
We put a new door of double plank in that they could n't kick out . ''
`` I stayed in the schoolroom to do some work , '' said Eric briefly .
`` Well , you 've missed Alexander Tracy .
He was here to find out if you could play checkers , and , when I told him you could , he left word for you to go up and have a game some evening soon .
Do n't beat him too often , even if you can .
You 'll need to stand in with him , I tell you , Master , for he 's got a son that may brew trouble for you when he starts in to go to school .
Seth Tracy 's a young imp , and he 'd far sooner be in mischief than eat .
He tries to run on every new teacher and he 's run two clean out of the school .
But he met his match in Mr. West .
William Tracy 's boys now -- you wo n't have a scrap of bother with THEM .
They 're always good because their mother tells them every Sunday that they 'll go straight to hell if they do n't behave in school .
It 's effective .
Take some preserve , Master .
You know we do n't help things here the way Mrs. Adam Scott does when she has boarders , ' I s ` pose you do n't want any of this -- nor you -- nor you ? '
Mother , Aleck says old George Wright is having the time of his life .
His wife has gone to Charlottetown to visit her sister and he is his own boss for the first time since he was married , forty years ago .
He 's on a regular orgy , Aleck says .
He smokes in the parlour and sits up till eleven o'clock reading dime novels . ''
`` Perhaps I met Mr. Tracy , '' said Eric .
`` Is he a tall man , with gray hair and a dark , stern face ? ''
`` No , he 's a round , jolly fellow , is Aleck , and he stopped growing pretty much before he 'd ever begun .
I reckon the man you mean is Thomas Gordon .
I seen him driving down the road too .
HE wo n't be troubling you with invitations up , small fear of it .
The Gordons ai n't sociable , to say the least of it .
No , sir !
Mother , pass the biscuits to the Master . ''
`` Who was the young fellow he had with him ? ''
asked Eric curiously .
`` Neil -- Neil Gordon . ''
`` That is a Scotchy name for such a face and eyes .
I should rather have expected Guiseppe or Angelo .
The boy looks like an Italian . ''
`` Well , now , you know , Master , I reckon it 's likely he does , seeing that that 's exactly what he is .
You 've hit the nail square on the head .
Italyun , yes , sir !
Rather too much so , I 'm thinking , for decent folks ' taste . ''
`` How has it happened that an Italian boy with a Scotch name is living in a place like Lindsay ? ''
`` Well , Master , it was this way .
About twenty-two years ago -- WAS it twenty-two , Mother or twenty-four ?
Yes , it was twenty-two -- 't was the same year our Jim was born and he 'd have been twenty-two if he 'd lived , poor little fellow .
Well , Master , twenty-two years ago a couple of Italian pack peddlers came along and called at the Gordon place .
The country was swarming with them then .
I useter set the dog on one every day on an average .
`` Well , these peddlers were man and wife , and the woman took sick up there at the Gordon place , and Janet Gordon took her in and nursed her .
A baby was born the next day , and the woman died .
Then the first thing anybody knew the father skipped clean out , pack and all , and was never seen or heard tell of afterwards .
The Gordons were left with the fine youngster to their hands .
Folks advised them to send him to the Orphan Asylum , and ` twould have been the wisest plan , but the Gordons were never fond of taking advice .
Old James Gordon was living then , Thomas and Janet 's father , and he said he would never turn a child out of his door .
He was a masterful old man and liked to be boss .
Folks used to say he had a grudge against the sun 'cause it rose and set without his say so .
Anyhow , they kept the baby .
They called him Neil and had him baptized same as any Christian child .
He 's always lived there .
They did well enough by him .
He was sent to school and taken to church and treated like one of themselves .
Some folks think they made too much of him .
It does n't always do with that kind , for ` what 's bred in bone is mighty apt to come out in flesh , ' if ` taint kept down pretty well .
Neil 's smart and a great worker , they tell me .
But folks hereabouts do n't like him .
They say he ai n't to be trusted further 'n you can see him , if as far .
It 's certain he 's awful hot tempered , and one time when he was going to school he near about killed a boy he 'd took a spite to -- choked him till he was black in the face and Neil had to be dragged off . ''
`` Well now , father , you know they teased him terrible , '' protested Mrs. Williamson .
`` The poor boy had a real hard time when he went to school , Master .
The other children were always casting things up to him and calling him names . ''
`` Oh , I daresay they tormented him a lot , '' admitted her husband .
`` He 's a great hand at the fiddle and likes company .
He goes to the harbour a good deal .
But they say he takes sulky spells when he has n't a word to throw to a dog .
` Twould n't be any wonder , living with the Gordons .
They 're all as queer as Dick 's hat-band . ''
`` Father , you should n't talk so about your neighbours , '' said his wife rebukingly .
`` Well now , Mother , you know they are , if you 'd only speak up honest .
But you 're like old Aunt Nancy Scott , you never say anything uncharitable except in the way of business .
You know the Gordons ai n't like other people and never were and never will be .
They 're about the only queer folks we have in Lindsay , Master , except old Peter Cook , who keeps twenty-five cats .
Lord , Master , think of it !
What chanct would a poor mouse have ?
None of the rest of us are queer , leastwise , we hai n't found it out if we are .
But , then , we 're mighty uninteresting , I 'm bound to admit that . ''
`` Where do the Gordons live ? ''
asked Eric , who had grown used to holding fast to a given point of inquiry through all the bewildering mazes of old Robert 's conversation .
`` Away up yander , half a mile in from Radnor road , with a thick spruce wood atween them and all the rest of the world .
They never go away anywheres , except to church -- they never miss that -- and nobody goes there .
There 's just old Thomas , and his sister Janet , and a niece of theirs , and this here Neil we 've been talking about .
They 're a queer , dour , cranky lot , and I WILL say it , Mother .
There , give your old man a cup of tea and never mind the way his tongue runs on .
Speaking of tea , do you know Mrs. Adam Palmer and Mrs. Jim Martin took tea together at Foster Reid 's last Wednesday afternoon ? ''
`` No , why , I thought they were on bad terms , '' said Mrs. Williamson , betraying a little feminine curiosity .
`` So they are , so they are .
But they both happened to visit Mrs. Foster the same afternoon and neither would leave because that would be knuckling down to the other .
So they stuck it out , on opposite sides of the parlour .
Mrs. Foster says she never spent such an uncomfortable afternoon in all her life before .
She would talk a spell to one and then t ` other .
And they kept talking TO Mrs. Foster and AT each other .
Mrs. Foster says she really thought she 'd have to keep them all night , for neither would start to go home afore the other .
Finally Jim Martin came in to look for his wife , 'cause he thought she must have got stuck in the marsh , and that solved the problem .
Master , you ai n't eating anything .
Do n't mind my stopping ; I was at it half an hour afore you come , and anyway I 'm in a hurry .
My hired boy went home to-day .
He heard the rooster crow at twelve last night and he 's gone home to see which of his family is dead .
He knows one of 'em is .
He heard a rooster crow in the middle of the night onct afore and the next day he got word that his second cousin down at Souris was dead .
Mother , if the Master do n't want any more tea , ai n't there some cream for Timothy ? ''
CHAPTER V .
A PHANTOM OF DELIGHT Shortly before sunset that evening Eric went for a walk .
When he did not go to the shore he liked to indulge in long tramps through the Lindsay fields and woods , in the mellowness of `` the sweet ' o the year . ''
Most of the Lindsay houses were built along the main road , which ran parallel to the shore , or about the stores at `` The Corner . ''
The farms ran back from them into solitudes of woods and pasture lands .
Eric struck southwest from the Williamson homestead , in a direction he had not hitherto explored , and walked briskly along , enjoying the witchery of the season all about him in earth and air and sky .
He felt it and loved it and yielded to it , as anyone of clean life and sane pulses must do .
The spruce wood in which he presently found himself was smitten through with arrows of ruby light from the setting sun .
He went through it , walking up a long , purple aisle where the wood-floor was brown and elastic under his feet , and came out beyond it on a scene which surprised him .
No house was in sight , but he found himself looking into an orchard ; an old orchard , evidently long neglected and forsaken .
But an orchard dies hard ; and this one , which must have been a very delightful spot once , was delightful still , none the less so for the air of gentle melancholy which seemed to pervade it , the melancholy which invests all places that have once been the scenes of joy and pleasure and young life , and are so no longer , places where hearts have throbbed , and pulses thrilled , and eyes brightened , and merry voices echoed .
The ghosts of these things seem to linger in their old haunts through many empty years .
The orchard was large and long , enclosed in a tumbledown old fence of longers bleached to a silvery gray in the suns of many lost summers .
At regular intervals along the fence were tall , gnarled fir trees , and an evening wind , sweeter than that which blew over the beds of spice from Lebanon , was singing in their tops , an earth-old song with power to carry the soul back to the dawn of time .
Eastward , a thick fir wood grew , beginning with tiny treelets just feathering from the grass , and grading up therefrom to the tall veterans of the mid-grove , unbrokenly and evenly , giving the effect of a solid , sloping green wall , so beautifully compact that it looked as if it had been clipped into its velvet surface by art .
Most of the orchard was grown over lushly with grass ; but at the end where Eric stood there was a square , treeless place which had evidently once served as a homestead garden .
Old paths were still visible , bordered by stones and large pebbles .
There were two clumps of lilac trees ; one blossoming in royal purple , the other in white .
Between them was a bed ablow with the starry spikes of June lilies .
Their penetrating , haunting fragrance distilled on the dewy air in every soft puff of wind .
Along the fence rosebushes grew , but it was as yet too early in the season for roses .
Beyond was the orchard proper , three long rows of trees with green avenues between , each tree standing in a wonderful blow of pink and white .
The charm of the place took sudden possession of Eric as nothing had ever done before .
He was not given to romantic fancies ; but the orchard laid hold of him subtly and drew him to itself , and he was never to be quite his own man again .
He went into it over one of the broken panels of fence , and so , unknowing , went forward to meet all that life held for him .
He walked the length of the orchard 's middle avenue between long , sinuous boughs picked out with delicate , rose-hearted bloom .
When he reached its southern boundary he flung himself down in a grassy corner of the fence where another lilac bush grew , with ferns and wild blue violets at its roots .
From where he now was he got a glimpse of a house about a quarter of a mile away , its gray gable peering out from a dark spruce wood .
It seemed a dull , gloomy , remote place , and he did not know who lived there .
He had a wide outlook to the west , over far hazy fields and misty blue intervales .
The sun had just set , and the whole world of green meadows beyond swam in golden light .
Across a long valley brimmed with shadow were uplands of sunset , and great sky lakes of saffron and rose where a soul might lose itself in colour .
The air was very fragrant with the baptism of the dew , and the odours of a bed of wild mint upon which he had trampled .
Robins were whistling , clear and sweet and sudden , in the woods all about him .
`` This is a veritable ` haunt of ancient peace , ' '' quoted Eric , looking around with delighted eyes .
`` I could fall asleep here , dream dreams and see visions .
What a sky !
Could anything be diviner than that fine crystal eastern blue , and those frail white clouds that look like woven lace ?
What a dizzying , intoxicating fragrance lilacs have !
I wonder if perfume could set a man drunk .
Those apple trees now -- why , what is that ? ''
Eric started up and listened .
Across the mellow stillness , mingled with the croon of the wind in the trees and the flute-like calls of the robins , came a strain of delicious music , so beautiful and fantastic that Eric held his breath in astonishment and delight .
Was he dreaming ?
No , it was real music , the music of a violin played by some hand inspired with the very spirit of harmony .
He had never heard anything like it ; and , somehow , he felt quite sure that nothing exactly like it ever had been heard before ; he believed that that wonderful music was coming straight from the soul of the unseen violinist , and translating itself into those most airy and delicate and exquisite sounds for the first time ; the very soul of music , with all sense and earthliness refined away .
It was an elusive , haunting melody , strangely suited to the time and place ; it had in it the sigh of the wind in the woods , the eerie whispering of the grasses at dewfall , the white thoughts of the June lilies , the rejoicing of the apple blossoms ; all the soul of all the old laughter and song and tears and gladness and sobs the orchard had ever known in the lost years ; and besides all this , there was in it a pitiful , plaintive cry as of some imprisoned thing calling for freedom and utterance .
At first Eric listened as a man spellbound , mutely and motionlessly , lost in wonderment .
Then a very natural curiosity overcame him .
Who in Lindsay could play a violin like that ?
And who was playing so here , in this deserted old orchard , of all places in the world ?
He rose and walked up the long white avenue , going as slowly and silently as possible , for he did not wish to interrupt the player .
When he reached the open space of the garden he stopped short in new amazement and was again tempted into thinking he must certainly be dreaming .
Under the big branching white lilac tree was an old , sagging , wooden bench ; and on this bench a girl was sitting , playing on an old brown violin .
Her eyes were on the faraway horizon and she did not see Eric .
For a few moments he stood there and looked at her .
The pictures she made photographed itself on his vision to the finest detail , never to be blotted from his book of remembrance .
To his latest day Eric Marshall will be able to recall vividly that scene as he saw it then -- the velvet darkness of the spruce woods , the overarching sky of soft brilliance , the swaying lilac blossoms , and amid it all the girl on the old bench with the violin under her chin .
He had , in his twenty-four years of life , met hundreds of pretty women , scores of handsome women , a scant half dozen of really beautiful women .
But he knew at once , beyond all possibility of question or doubt , that he had never seen or imagined anything so exquisite as this girl of the orchard .
Her loveliness was so perfect that his breath almost went from him in his first delight of it .
Her face was oval , marked in every cameo-like line and feature with that expression of absolute , flawless purity , found in the angels and Madonnas of old paintings , a purity that held in it no faintest strain of earthliness .
Her head was bare , and her thick , jet-black hair was parted above her forehead and hung in two heavy lustrous braids over her shoulders .
Her eyes were of such a blue as Eric had never seen in eyes before , the tint of the sea in the still , calm light that follows after a fine sunset ; they were as luminous as the stars that came out over Lindsay Harbour in the afterglow , and were fringed about with very long , soot-black lashes , and arched over by most delicately pencilled dark eyebrows .
Her skin was as fine and purely tinted as the heart of a white rose .
The collarless dress of pale blue print she wore revealed her smooth , slender throat ; her sleeves were rolled up above her elbows and the hand which guided the bow of her violin was perhaps the most beautiful thing about her , perfect in shape and texture , firm and white , with rosy-nailed taper fingers .
One long , drooping plume of lilac blossom lightly touched her hair and cast a wavering shadow over the flower-like face beneath it .
There was something very child-like about her , and yet at least eighteen sweet years must have gone to the making of her .
She seemed to be playing half unconsciously , as if her thoughts were far away in some fair dreamland of the skies .
But presently she looked away from `` the bourne of sunset , '' and her lovely eyes fell on Eric , standing motionless before her in the shadow of the apple tree .
The sudden change that swept over her was startling .
She sprang to her feet , the music breaking in mid-strain and the bow slipping from her hand to the grass .
Every hint of colour fled from her face and she trembled like one of the wind-stirred June lilies .
`` I beg your pardon , '' said Eric hastily .
`` I am sorry that I have alarmed you .
But your music was so beautiful that I did not remember you were not aware of my presence here .
Please forgive me . ''
He stopped in dismay , for he suddenly realized that the expression on the girl 's face was one of terror -- not merely the startled alarm of a shy , childlike creature who had thought herself alone , but absolute terror .
It was betrayed in her blanched and quivering lips and in the widely distended blue eyes that stared back into his with the expression of some trapped wild thing .
It hurt him that any woman should look at him in such a fashion , at him who had always held womanhood in such reverence .
`` Do n't look so frightened , '' he said gently , thinking only of calming her fear , and speaking as he would to a child .
`` I will not hurt you .
You are safe , quite safe . ''
In his eagerness to reassure her he took an unconscious step forward .
Instantly she turned , and , without a sound , fled across the orchard , through a gap in the northern fence and along what seemed to be a lane bordering the fir wood beyond and arched over with wild cherry trees misty white in the gathering gloom .
Before Eric could recover his wits she had vanished from his sight among the firs .
He stooped and picked up the violin bow , feeling slightly foolish and very much annoyed .
`` Well , this is a most mysterious thing , '' he said , somewhat impatiently .
`` Am I bewitched ?
Who was she ?
WHAT was she ?
Can it be possible that she is a Lindsay girl ?
And why in the name of all that 's provoking should she be so frightened at the mere sight of me ?
I have never thought I was a particularly hideous person , but certainly this adventure has not increased my vanity to any perceptible extent .
Perhaps I have wandered into an enchanted orchard , and been outwardly transformed into an ogre .
Now that I have come to think of it , there is something quite uncanny about the place .
Anything might happen here .
It is no common orchard for the production of marketable apples , that is plain to be seen .
No , it 's a most unwholesome locality ; and the sooner I make my escape from it the better . ''
He glanced about it with a whimsical smile .
The light was fading rapidly and the orchard was full of soft , creeping shadows and silences .
It seemed to wink sleepy eyes of impish enjoyment at his perplexity .
He laid the violin bow down on the old bench .
`` Well , there is no use in my following her , and I have no right to do so even if it were of use .
But I certainly wish she had n't fled in such evident terror .
Eyes like hers were never meant to express anything but tenderness and trust .
Why -- why -- WHY was she so frightened ?
And who -- who -- WHO -- can she be ? ''
All the way home , over fields and pastures that were beginning to be moonlight silvered he pondered the mystery .
`` Let me see , '' he reflected .
`` Mr. Williamson was describing the Lindsay girls for my benefit the other evening .
If I remember rightly he said that there were four handsome ones in the district .
What were their names ?
Florrie Woods , Melissa Foster -- no , Melissa Palmer -- Emma Scott , and Jennie May Ferguson .
Can she be one of them ?
No , it is a flagrant waste of time and gray matter supposing it .
That girl could n't be a Florrie or a Melissa or an Emma , while Jennie May is completely out of the question .
Well , there is some bewitchment in the affair .
Of that I 'm convinced .
So I 'd better forget all about it . ''
But Eric found that it was impossible to forget all about it .
The more he tried to forget , the more keenly and insistently he remembered .
The girl 's exquisite face haunted him and the mystery of her tantalized him .
True , he knew that , in all likelihood , he might easily solve the problem by asking the Williamsons about her .
But somehow , to his own surprise , he found that he shrank from doing this .
He felt that it was impossible to ask Robert Williamson and probably have the girl 's name overflowed in a stream of petty gossip concerning her and all her antecedents and collaterals to the third and fourth generation .
If he had to ask any one it should be Mrs. Williamson ; but he meant to find out the secret for himself if it were at all possible .
He had planned to go to the harbour the next evening .
One of the lobstermen had promised to take him out cod-fishing .
But instead he wandered southwest over the fields again .
He found the orchard easily -- he had half expected NOT to find it .
It was still the same fragrant , grassy , wind-haunted spot .
But it had no occupant and the violin bow was gone from the old bench .
`` Perhaps she tiptoed back here for it by the light o ' the moon , '' thought Eric , pleasing his fancy by the vision of a lithe , girlish figure stealing with a beating heart through mingled shadow and moonshine .
`` I wonder if she will possibly come this evening , or if I have frightened her away for ever .
I 'll hide me behind this spruce copse and wait . ''
Eric waited until dark , but no music sounded through the orchard and no one came to it .
The keenness of his disappointment surprised him , nay more , it vexed him .
What nonsense to be so worked up because a little girl he had seen for five minutes failed to appear !
Where was his common sense , his `` gumption , '' as old Robert Williamson would have said ?
Naturally a man liked to look at a pretty face .
But was that any reason why he should feel as if life were flat , stale , and unprofitable simply because he could not look at it ?
He called himself a fool and went home in a petulant mood .
Arriving there , he plunged fiercely into solving algebraical equations and working out geometry exercises , determined to put out of his head forthwith all vain imaginings of an enchanted orchard , white in the moonshine , with lilts of elfin music echoing down its long arcades .
The next day was Sunday and Eric went to church twice .
The Williamson pew was one of the side ones at the top of the church and its occupants practically faced the congregation .
Eric looked at every girl and woman in the audience , but he saw nothing of the face which , setting will power and common sense flatly at defiance , haunted his memory like a star .
Thomas Gordon was there , sitting alone in his long , empty pew near the top of the building ; and Neil Gordon sang in the choir which occupied the front pew of the gallery .
He had a powerful and melodious , though untrained voice , which dominated the singing and took the colour out of the weaker , more commonplace tones of the other singers .
He was well-dressed in a suit of dark blue serge , with a white collar and tie .
But Eric idly thought it did not become him so well as the working clothes in which he had first seen him .
He was too obviously dressed up , and he looked coarser and more out of harmony with his surroundings .
For two days Eric refused to let himself think of the orchard .
Monday evening he went cod-fishing , and Tuesday evening he went up to play checkers with Alexander Tracy .
Alexander won all the games so easily that he never had any respect for Eric Marshall again .
`` Played like a feller whose thoughts were wool gathering , '' he complained to his wife .
`` He 'll never make a checker player -- never in this world . ''
CHAPTER VI .
THE STORY OF KILMENY Wednesday evening Eric went to the orchard again ; and again he was disappointed .
He went home , determined to solve the mystery by open inquiry .
Fortune favoured him , for he found Mrs. Williamson alone , sitting by the west window of her kitchen and knitting at a long gray sock .
She hummed softly to herself as she knitted , and Timothy slept blackly at her feet .
She looked at Eric with quiet affection in her large , candid eyes .
She had liked Mr. West .
But Eric had found his way into the inner chamber of her heart , by reason that his eyes were so like those of the little son she had buried in the Lindsay churchyard many years before .
`` Mrs. Williamson , '' said Eric , with an affectation of carelessness , `` I chanced on an old deserted orchard back behind the woods over there last week , a charming bit of wilderness .
Do you know whose it is ? ''
`` I suppose it must be the old Connors orchard , '' answered Mrs. Williamson after a moment 's reflection .
`` I had forgotten all about it .
It must be all of thirty years since Mr. and Mrs. Connors moved away .
Their house and barns were burned down and they sold the land to Thomas Gordon and went to live in town .
They 're both dead now .
Mr. Connors used to be very proud of his orchard .
There were n't many orchards in Lindsay then , though almost everybody has one now . ''
`` There was a young girl in it , playing on a violin , '' said Eric , annoyed to find that it cost him an effort to speak of her , and that the blood mounted to his face as he did so .
`` She ran away in great alarm as soon as she saw me , although I do not think I did or said anything to frighten or vex her .
I have no idea who she was .
Do you know ? ''
Mrs. Williamson did not make an immediate reply .
She laid down her knitting and gazed out of the window as if pondering seriously some question in her own mind .
Finally she said , with an intonation of keen interest in her voice , `` I suppose it must have been Kilmeny Gordon , Master . ''
`` Kilmeny Gordon ?
Do you mean the niece of Thomas Gordon of whom your husband spoke ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` I can hardly believe that the girl I saw can be a member of Thomas Gordon 's family . ''
`` Well , if it was n't Kilmeny Gordon I do n't know who it could have been .
There is no other house near that orchard and I 've heard she plays the violin .
If it was Kilmeny you 've seen what very few people in Lindsay have ever seen , Master .
And those few have never seen her close by .
I have never laid eyes on her myself .
It 's no wonder she ran away , poor girl .
She is n't used to seeing strangers . ''
`` I 'm rather glad if that was the sole reason of her flight , '' said Eric .
`` I admit I did n't like to see any girl so frightened of me as she appeared to be .
She was as white as paper , and so terrified that she never uttered a word , but fled like a deer to cover . ''
`` Well , she could n't have spoken a word in any case , '' said Mrs. Williamson quietly .
`` Kilmeny Gordon is dumb . ''
Eric sat in dismayed silence for a moment .
That beautiful creature afflicted in such a fashion -- why , it was horrible !
Mingled with his dismay was a strange pang of personal regret and disappointment .
`` It could n't have been Kilmeny Gordon , then , '' he protested at last , remembering .
`` The girl I saw played on the violin exquisitely .
I never heard anything like it .
It is impossible that a deaf mute could play like that . ''
`` Oh , she is n't deaf , Master , '' responded Mrs. Williamson , looking at Eric keenly through her spectacles .
She picked up her knitting and fell to work again .
`` That is the strange part of it , if anything about her can be stranger than another .
She can hear as well as anybody and understands everything that is said to her .
But she ca n't speak a word and never could , at least , so they say .
The truth is , nobody knows much about her .
Janet and Thomas never speak of her , and Neil wo n't either .
He has been well questioned , too , you can depend on that ; but he wo n't ever say a word about Kilmeny and he gets mad if folks persist . ''
`` Why is n't she to be spoken of ? ''
queried Eric impatiently .
`` What is the mystery about her ? ''
`` It 's a sad story , Master .
I suppose the Gordons look on her existence as a sort of disgrace .
For my own part , I think it 's terrible , the way she 's been brought up .
But the Gordons are very strange people , Mr. Marshall .
I kind of reproved father for saying so , you remember , but it is true .
They have very strange ways .
And you 've really seen Kilmeny ?
What does she look like ?
I 've heard that she was handsome .
Is it true ? ''
`` I thought her very beautiful , '' said Eric rather curtly .
`` But HOW has she been brought up , Mrs. Williamson ?
And why ? ''
`` Well , I might as well tell you the whole story , Master .
Kilmeny is the niece of Thomas and Janet Gordon .
Her mother was Margaret Gordon , their younger sister .
Old James Gordon came out from Scotland .
Janet and Thomas were born in the Old Country and were small children when they came here .
They were never very sociable folks , but still they used to visit out some then , and people used to go there .
They were kind and honest people , even if they were a little peculiar .
`` Mrs. Gordon died a few years after they came out , and four years later James Gordon went home to Scotland and brought a new wife back with him .
She was a great deal younger than he was and a very pretty woman , as my mother often told me .
She was friendly and gay and liked social life .
The Gordon place was a very different sort of place after she came there , and even Janet and Thomas got thawed out and softened down a good bit .
They were real fond of their stepmother , I 've heard .
Then , six years after she was married , the second Mrs. Gordon died too .
She died when Margaret was born .
They say James Gordon almost broke his heart over it .
`` Janet brought Margaret up .
She and Thomas just worshipped the child and so did their father .
I knew Margaret Gordon well once .
We were just the same age and we set together in school .
We were always good friends until she turned against all the world .
`` She was a strange girl in some ways even then , but I always liked her , though a great many people did n't .
She had some bitter enemies , but she had some devoted friends too .
That was her way .
She made folks either hate or love her .
Those who did love her would have gone through fire and water for her .
`` When she grew up she was very pretty -- tall and splendid , like a queen , with great thick braids of black hair and red , red cheeks and lips .
Everybody who saw her looked at her a second time .
She was a little vain of her beauty , I think , Master .
And she was proud , oh , she was very proud .
She liked to be first in everything , and she could n't bear not to show to good advantage .
She was dreadful determined , too .
You could n't budge her an inch , Master , when she once had made up her mind on any point .
But she was warm-hearted and generous .
She could sing like an angel and she was very clever .
She could learn anything with just one look at it and she was terrible fond of reading .
`` When I 'm talking about her like this it all comes back to me , just what she was like and how she looked and spoke and acted , and little ways she had of moving her hands and head .
I declare it almost seems as if she was right here in this room instead of being over there in the churchyard .
I wish you 'd light the lamp , Master .
I feel kind of nervous . ''
Eric rose and lighted the lamp , rather wondering at Mrs. Williamson 's unusual exhibition of nerves .
She was generally so calm and composed .
`` Thank you , Master .
That 's better .
I wo n't be fancying now that Margaret Gordon 's here listening to what I 'm saying .
I had the feeling so strong a moment ago .
`` I suppose you think I 'm a long while getting to Kilmeny , but I 'm coming to that .
I did n't mean to talk so much about Margaret , but somehow my thoughts got taken up with her .
`` Well , Margaret passed the Board and went to Queen 's Academy and got a teacher 's license .
She passed pretty well up when she came out , but Janet told me she cried all night after the pass list came out because there were some ahead of her .
`` She went to teach school over at Radnor .
It was there she met a man named Ronald Fraser .
Margaret had never had a beau before .
She could have had any young man in Lindsay if she had wanted him , but she would n't look at one of them .
They said it was because she thought nobody was good enough for her , but that was n't the way of it at all , Master .
I knew , because Margaret and I used to talk of those matters , as girls do .
She did n't believe in going with anybody unless it was somebody she thought everything of .
And there was nobody in Lindsay she cared that much for .
`` This Ronald Fraser was a stranger from Nova Scotia and nobody knew much about him .
He was a widower , although he was only a young man .
He had set up store-keeping in Radnor and was doing well .
He was real handsome and had taking ways women like .
It was said that all the Radnor girls were in love with him , but I do n't think his worst enemy could have said he flirted with them .
He never took any notice of them ; but the very first time he saw Margaret Gordon he fell in love with her and she with him .
`` They came over to church in Lindsay together the next Sunday and everybody said it would be a match .
Margaret looked lovely that day , so gentle and womanly .
She had been used to hold her head pretty high , but that day she held it drooping a little and her black eyes cast down .
Ronald Fraser was very tall and fair , with blue eyes .
They made as handsome a couple as I ever saw .
`` But old James Gordon and Thomas and Janet did n't much approve of him .
I saw that plain enough one time I was there and he brought Margaret home from Radnor Friday night .
I guess they would n't have liked anybody , though , who come after Margaret .
They thought nobody was good enough for her .
`` But Margaret coaxed them all round in time .
She could do pretty near anything with them , they were so fond and proud of her .
Her father held out the longest , but finally he give in and consented for her to marry Ronald Fraser .
`` They had a big wedding , too -- all the neighbours were asked .
Margaret always liked to make a display .
I was her bridesmaid , Master .
I helped her dress and nothing would please her ; she wanted to look that nice for Ronald 's sake .
She was a handsome bride ; dressed in white , with red roses in her hair and at her breast .
She would n't wear white flowers ; she said they looked too much like funeral flowers .
She looked like a picture .
I can see her this minute , as plain as plain , just as she was that night , blushing and turning pale by turns , and looking at Ronald with her eyes of love .
If ever a girl loved a man with all her heart Margaret Gordon did .
It almost made me feel frightened .
She gave him the worship it is n't right to give anybody but God , Master , and I think that is always punished .
`` They went to live at Radnor and for a little while everything went well .
Margaret had a nice house , and was gay and happy .
She dressed beautiful and entertained a good deal .
Then -- well , Ronald Fraser 's first wife turned up looking for him !
She was n't dead after all .
`` Oh , there was terrible scandal , Master .
The talk and gossip was something dreadful .
Every one you met had a different story , and it was hard to get at the truth .
Some said Ronald Fraser had known all the time that his wife was n't dead , and had deceived Margaret .
But I do n't think he did .
He swore he did n't .
They had n't been very happy together , it seems .
Her mother made trouble between them .
Then she went to visit her mother in Montreal , and died in the hospital there , so the word came to Ronald .
Perhaps he believed it a little too readily , but that he DID believe it I never had a doubt .
Her story was that it was another woman of the same name .
When she found out Ronald thought her dead she and her mother agreed to let him think so .
But when she heard he had got married again she thought she 'd better let him know the truth .
`` It all sounded like a queer story and I suppose you could n't blame people for not believing it too readily .
But I 've always felt it was true .
Margaret did n't think so , though .
She believed that Ronald Fraser had deceived her , knowing all the time that he could n't make her his lawful wife .
She turned against him and hated him just as much as she had loved him before .
`` Ronald Fraser went away with his real wife , and in less than a year word came of his death .
They said he just died of a broken heart , nothing more nor less .
`` Margaret came home to her father 's house .
From the day that she went over its threshold , she never came out until she was carried out in her coffin three years ago .
Not a soul outside of her own family ever saw her again .
I went to see her , but Janet told me she would n't see me .
It was foolish of Margaret to act so .
She had n't done anything real wrong ; and everybody was sorry for her and would have helped her all they could .
But I reckon pity cut her as deep as blame could have done , and deeper , because you see , Master , she was so proud she could n't bear it .
`` They say her father was hard on her , too ; and that was unjust if it was true .
Janet and Thomas felt the disgrace , too .
The people that had been in the habit of going to the Gordon place soon stopped going , for they could see they were not welcome .
`` Old James Gordon died that winter .
He never held his head up again after the scandal .
He had been an elder in the church , but he handed in his resignation right away and nobody could persuade him to withdraw it .
`` Kilmeny was born in the spring , but nobody ever saw her , except the minister who baptized her .
She was never taken to church or sent to school .
Of course , I suppose there would n't have been any use in her going to school when she could n't speak , and it 's likely Margaret taught her all she could be taught herself .
But it was dreadful that she was never taken to church , or let go among the children and young folks .
And it was a real shame that nothing was ever done to find out why she could n't talk , or if she could be cured .
`` Margaret Gordon died three years ago , and everybody in Lindsay went to the funeral .
But they did n't see her .
The coffin lid was screwed down .
And they did n't see Kilmeny either .
I would have loved to see HER for Margaret 's sake , but I did n't want to see poor Margaret .
I had never seen her since the night she was a bride , for I had left Lindsay on a visit just after that , and what I came home the scandal had just broken out .
I remembered Margaret in all her pride and beauty , and I could n't have borne to look at her dead face and see the awful changes I knew must be there .
`` It was thought perhaps Janet and Thomas would take Kilmeny out after her mother was gone , but they never did , so I suppose they must have agreed with Margaret about the way she had been brought up .
I 've often felt sorry for the poor girl , and I do n't think her people did right by her , even if she was mysteriously afflicted .
She must have had a very sad , lonely life .
`` That is the story , Master , and I 've been a long time telling it , as I dare say you think .
But the past just seemed to be living again for me as I talked .
If you do n't want to be pestered with questions about Kilmeny Gordon , Master , you 'd better not let on you 've seen her . ''
Eric was not likely to .
He had heard all he wanted to know and more .
`` So this girl is at to core of a tragedy , '' he reflected , as he went to his room .
`` And she is dumb !
The pity of it !
Kilmeny !
The name suits her .
She is as lovely and innocent as the heroine of the old ballad .
` And oh , Kilmeny was fair to see . '
But the next line is certainly not so appropriate , for her eyes were anything but ` still and steadfast ' -- after she had seen me , at all events . ''
He tried to put her out of his thoughts , but he could not .
The memory of her beautiful face drew him with a power he could not resist .
The next evening he went again to the orchard .
CHAPTER VII .
A ROSE OF WOMANHOOD When he emerged from the spruce wood and entered the orchard his heart gave a sudden leap , and he felt that the blood rushed madly to his face .
She was there , bending over the bed of June lilies in the centre of the garden plot .
He could only see her profile , virginal and white .
He stopped , not wishing to startle her again .
When she lifted her head he expected to see her shrink and flee , but she did not do so ; she only grew a little paler and stood motionless , watching him intently .
Seeing this , he walked slowly towards her , and when he was so close to her that he could hear the nervous flutter of her breath over her parted , trembling lips , he said very gently , `` Do not be afraid of me .
I am a friend , and I do not wish to disturb or annoy you in any way . ''
She seemed to hesitate a moment .
Then she lifted a little slate that hung at her belt , wrote something on it rapidly , and held it out to him .
He read , in a small distinctive handwriting , `` I am not afraid of you now .
Mother told me that all strange men were very wicked and dangerous , but I do not think you can be .
I have thought a great deal about you , and I am sorry I ran away the other night . ''
He realized her entire innocence and simplicity .
Looking earnestly into her still troubled eyes he said , `` I would not do you any harm for the world .
All men are not wicked , although it is too true that some are so .
My name is Eric Marshall and I am teaching in the Lindsay school .
You , I think , are Kilmeny Gordon .
I thought your music so very lovely the other evening that I have been wishing ever since that I might hear it again .
Wo n't you play for me ? ''
The vague fear had all gone from her eyes by this time , and suddenly she smiled -- a merry , girlish , wholly irresistible smile , which broke through the calm of her face like a gleam of sunlight rippling over a placid sea .
Then she wrote , `` I am very sorry that I can not play this evening .
I did not bring my violin with me .
But I will bring it to-morrow evening and play for you if you would like to hear me .
I should like to please you . ''
Again that note of innocent frankness !
What a child she was -- what a beautiful , ignorant child , utterly unskilled in the art of hiding her feelings !
But why should she hide them ?
They were as pure and beautiful as herself .
Eric smiled back at her with equal frankness .
`` I should like it more than I can say , and I shall be sure to come to-morrow evening if it is fine .
But if it is at all damp or unpleasant you must not come .
In that case another evening will do .
And now wo n't you give me some flowers ? ''
She nodded , with another little smile , and began to pick some of the June lilies , carefully selecting the most perfect among them .
He watched her lithe , graceful motions with delight ; every movement seemed poetry itself .
She looked like a very incarnation of Spring -- as if all the shimmer of young leaves and glow of young mornings and evanescent sweetness of young blossoms in a thousand springs had been embodied in her .
When she came to him , radiant , her hands full of the lilies , a couplet from a favourite poem darted into his head -- `` A blossom vermeil white That lightly breaks a faded flower sheath , Here , by God 's rood , is the one maid for me . ''
The next moment he was angry with himself for his folly .
She was , after all , nothing but a child -- and a child set apart from her fellow creatures by her sad defect .
He must not let himself think nonsense .
`` Thank you .
These June lilies are the sweetest flowers the spring brings us .
Do you know that their real name is the white narcissus ? ''
She looked pleased and interested .
`` No , I did not know , '' she wrote .
`` I have often read of the white narcissus and wondered what it was like .
I never thought of it being the same as my dear June lilies .
I am glad you told me .
I love flowers very much .
They are my very good friends . ''
`` You could n't help being friends with the lilies .
Like always takes to like , '' said Eric .
`` Come and sit down on the old bench -- here , where you were sitting that night I frightened you so badly .
I could not imagine who or what you were .
Sometimes I thought I had dreamed you -- only , '' he added under his breath and unheard by her , `` I could never have dreamed anything half so lovely . ''
She sat down beside him on the old bench and looked unshrinkingly in his face .
There was no boldness in her glance -- nothing but the most perfect , childlike trust and confidence .
If there had been any evil in his heart -- any skulking thought , he was afraid to acknowledge -- those eyes must have searched it out and shamed it .
But he could meet them unafraid .
Then she wrote , `` I was very much frightened .
You must have thought me very silly , but I had never seen any man except Uncle Thomas and Neil and the egg peddler .
And you are different from them -- oh , very , very different .
I was afraid to come back here the next evening .
And yet , somehow , I wanted to come .
I did not want you to think I did not know how to behave .
I sent Neil back for my bow in the morning .
I could not do without it .
I can not speak , you know .
Are you sorry ? ''
`` I am very sorry for your sake . ''
`` Yes , but what I mean is , would you like me better if I could speak like other people ? ''
`` No , it does not make any difference in that way , Kilmeny .
By the way , do you mind my calling you Kilmeny ? ''
She looked puzzled and wrote , `` What else should you call me ?
That is my name .
Everybody calls me that . ''
`` But I am such a stranger to you that perhaps you would wish me to call you Miss Gordon . ''
`` Oh , no , I would not like that , '' she wrote quickly , with a distressed look on her face .
`` Nobody ever calls me that .
It would make me feel as if I were not myself but somebody else .
And you do not seem like a stranger to me .
Is there any reason why you should not call me Kilmeny ? ''
`` No reason whatever , if you will allow me the privilege .
You have a very lovely name -- the very name you ought to have . ''
`` I am glad you like it .
Do you know that I was called after my grandmother and she was called after a girl in a poem ?
Aunt Janet has never liked my name , although she liked my grandmother .
But I am glad you like both my name and me .
I was afraid you would not like me because I can not speak . ''
`` You can speak through your music , Kilmeny . ''
She looked pleased .
`` How well you understand , '' she wrote .
`` Yes , I can not speak or sing as other people can , but I can make my violin say things for me . ''
`` Do you compose your own music ? ''
he asked .
But he saw she did not understand him .
`` I mean , did any one ever teach you the music you played here that evening ? ''
`` Oh , no .
It just came as I thought .
It has always been that way .
When I was very little Neil taught me to hold the violin and the bow , and the rest all came of itself .
My violin once belonged to Neil , but he gave it to me .
Neil is very good and kind to me , but I like you better .
Tell me about yourself . ''
The wonder of her grew upon him with every passing moment .
How lovely she was !
What dear little ways and gestures she had -- ways and gestures as artless and unstudied as they were effective .
And how strangely little her dumbness seemed to matter after all !
She wrote so quickly and easily , her eyes and smile gave such expression to her mobile face , that voice was hardly missed .
They lingered in the orchard until the long , languid shadows of the trees crept to their feet .
It was just after sunset and the distant hills were purple against the melting saffron of the sky in the west and the crystalline blue of the sky in the south .
Eastward , just over the fir woods , were clouds , white and high heaped like snow mountains , and the westernmost of them shone with a rosy glow as of sunset on an Alpine height .
The higher worlds of air were still full of light -- perfect , stainless light , unmarred of earth shadow ; but down in the orchard and under the spruces the light had almost gone , giving place to a green , dewy dusk , made passionately sweet with the breath of the apple blossoms and mint , and the balsamic odours that rained down upon them from the firs .
Eric told her of his life , and the life in the great outer world , in which she was girlishly and eagerly interested .
She asked him many questions about it -- direct and incisive questions which showed that she had already formed decided opinions and views about it .
Yet it was plain to be seen that she did not regard it as anything she might ever share herself .
Hers was the dispassionate interest with which she might have listened to a tale of the land of fairy or of some great empire long passed away from earth .
Eric discovered that she had read a great deal of poetry and history , and a few books of biography and travel .
She did not know what a novel meant and had never heard of one .
Curiously enough , she was well informed regarding politics and current events , from the weekly paper for which her uncle subscribed .
`` I never read the newspaper while mother was alive , '' she wrote , `` nor any poetry either .
She taught me to read and write and I read the Bible all through many times and some of the histories .
After mother died Aunt Janet gave me all her books .
She had a great many .
Most of them had been given to her as prizes when she was a girl at school , and some of them had been given to her by my father .
Do you know the story of my father and mother ? ''
Eric nodded .
`` Yes , Mrs. Williamson told me all about it .
She was a friend of your mother . ''
`` I am glad you have heard it .
It is so sad that I would not like to tell it , but you will understand everything better because you know .
I never heard it until just before mother died .
Then she told me all .
I think she had thought father was to blame for the trouble ; but before she died she told me she believed that she had been unjust to him and that he had not known .
She said that when people were dying they saw things more clearly and she saw she had made a mistake about father .
She said she had many more things she wanted to tell me , but she did not have time to tell them because she died that night .
It was a long while before I had the heart to read her books .
But when I did I thought them so beautiful .
They were poetry and it was like music put into words . ''
`` I will bring you some books to read , if you would like them , '' said Eric .
Her great blue eyes gleamed with interest and delight .
`` Oh , thank you , I would like it very much .
I have read mine over so often that I know them nearly all by heart .
One can not get tired of really beautiful things , but sometimes I feel that I would like some new books . ''
`` Are you never lonely , Kilmeny ? ''
`` Oh , no , how could I be ?
There is always plenty for me to do , helping Aunt Janet about the house .
I can do a great many things '' -- she glanced up at him with a pretty pride as her flying pencil traced the words .
`` I can cook and sew .
Aunt Janet says I am a very good housekeeper , and she does not praise people very often or very much .
And then , when I am not helping her , I have my dear , dear violin .
That is all the company I want .
But I like to read and hear of the big world so far away and the people who live there and the things that are done .
It must be a very wonderful place . ''
`` Would n't you like to go out into it and see its wonders and meet those people yourself ? ''
he asked , smiling at her .
At once he saw that , in some way he could not understand , he had hurt her .
She snatched her pencil and wrote , with such swiftness of motion and energy of expression that it almost seemed as if she had passionately exclaimed the words aloud , `` No , no , no .
I do not want to go anywhere away from home .
I do not want ever to see strangers or have them see me .
I could not bear it . ''
He thought that possibly the consciousness of her defect accounted for this .
Yet she did not seem sensitive about her dumbness and made frequent casual references to it in her written remarks .
Or perhaps it was the shadow on her birth .
Yet she was so innocent that it seemed unlikely she could realize or understand the existence of such a shadow .
Eric finally decided that it was merely the rather morbid shrinking of a sensitive child who had been brought up in an unwholesome and unnatural way .
At last the lengthening shadows warned him that it was time to go .
`` You wo n't forget to come to-morrow evening and play for me , '' he said , rising reluctantly .
She answered by a quick little shake of her sleek , dark head , and a smile that was eloquent .
He watched her as she walked across the orchard , `` With the moon 's beauty and the moon 's soft pace , '' and along the wild cherry lane .
At the corner of the firs she paused and waved her hand to him before turning it .
When Eric reached home old Robert Williamson was having a lunch of bread and milk in the kitchen .
He looked up , with a friendly grin , as Eric strode in , whistling .
`` Been having a walk , Master ? ''
he queried .
`` Yes , '' said Eric .
Unconsciously and involuntarily he infused so much triumph into the simple monosyllable that even old Robert felt it .
Mrs. Williamson , who was cutting bread at the end of the table , laid down her knife and loaf , and looked at the young man with a softly troubled expression in her eyes .
She wondered if he had been back to the Connors orchard -- and if he could have seen Kilmeny Gordon again .
`` You did n't discover a gold mine , I s ` pose ? ''
said old Robert dryly .
`` You look as if you might have . ''
CHAPTER VIII .
AT THE GATE OF EDEN When Eric went to the old Connors orchard the next evening he found Kilmeny waiting for him on the bench under the white lilac tree , with the violin in her lap .
As soon as she saw him she caught it up and began to play an airy delicate little melody that sounded like the laughter of daisies .
When it was finished she dropped her bow , and looked up at him with flushed cheeks and questioning eyes .
`` What did that say to you ? ''
she wrote .
`` It said something like this , '' answered Eric , falling into her humour smilingly .
`` Welcome , my friend .
It is a very beautiful evening .
The sky is so blue and the apple blossoms so sweet .
The wind and I have been here alone together and the wind is a good companion , but still I am glad to see you .
It is an evening on which it is good to be alive and to wander in an orchard that is fine and white .
Welcome , my friend . ''
She clapped her hands , looking like a pleased child .
`` You are very quick to understand , '' she wrote .
`` That was just what I meant .
Of course I did not think it in just those words , but that was the FEELING of it .
I felt that I was so glad I was alive , and that the apple blossoms and the white lilacs and the trees and I were all pleased together to see you come .
You are quicker than Neil .
He is almost always puzzled to understand my music , and I am puzzled to understand his .
Sometimes it frightens me .
It seems as if there were something in it trying to take hold of me -- something I do not like and want to run away from . ''
Somehow Eric did not like her references to Neil .
The idea of that handsome , low-born boy seeing Kilmeny every day , talking to her , sitting at the same table with her , dwelling under the same roof , meeting her in the hundred intimacies of daily life , was distasteful to him .
He put the thought away from him , and flung himself down on the long grass at her feet .
`` Now play for me , please , '' he said .
`` I want to lie here and listen to you . ''
`` And look at you , '' he might have added .
He could not tell which was the greater pleasure .
Her beauty , more wonderful than any pictured loveliness he had ever seen , delighted him .
Every tint and curve and outline of her face was flawless .
Her music enthralled him .
This child , he told himself as he listened , had genius .
But it was being wholly wasted .
He found himself thinking resentfully of the people who were her guardians , and who were responsible for her strange life .
They had done her a great and irremediable wrong .
How dared they doom her to such an existence ?
If her defect of utterance had been attended to in time , who knew but that it might have been cured ?
Now it was probably too late .
Nature had given her a royal birthright of beauty and talent , but their selfish and unpardonable neglect had made it of no account .
What divine music she lured out of the old violin -- merry and sad , gay and sorrowful by turns , music such as the stars of morning might have made singing together , music that the fairies might have danced to in their revels among the green hills or on yellow sands , music that might have mourned over the grave of a dead hope .
Then she drifted into a still sweeter strain .
As he listened to it he realized that the whole soul and nature of the girl were revealing themselves to him through her music -- the beauty and purity of her thoughts , her childhood dreams and her maiden reveries .
There was no thought of concealment about her ; she could not help the revelation she was unconscious of making .
At last she laid her violin aside and wrote , `` I have done my best to give you pleasure .
It is your turn now .
Do you remember a promise you made me last night ?
Have you kept it ? ''
He gave her the two books he had brought for her -- a modern novel and a volume of poetry unknown to her .
He had hesitated a little over the former ; but the book was so fine and full of beauty that he thought it could not bruise the bloom of her innocence ever so slightly .
He had no doubts about the poetry .
It was the utterance of one of those great inspired souls whose passing tread has made the kingdom of their birth and labour a veritable Holy Land .
He read her some of the poems .
Then he talked to her of his college days and friends .
The minutes passed very swiftly .
There was just then no world for him outside of that old orchard with its falling blossoms and its shadows and its crooning winds .
Once , when he told her the story of some college pranks wherein the endless feuds of freshmen and sophomores figured , she clapped her hands together according to her habit , and laughed aloud -- a clear , musical , silvery peal .
It fell on Eric 's ear with a shock of surprise .
He thought it strange that she could laugh like that when she could not speak .
Wherein lay the defect that closed for her the gates of speech ?
Was it possible that it could be removed ?
`` Kilmeny , '' he said gravely after a moment 's reflection , during which he had looked up as she sat with the ruddy sunlight falling through the lilac branches on her bare , silky head like a shower of red jewels , `` do you mind if I ask you something about your inability to speak ?
Will it hurt you to talk of the matter with me ? ''
She shook her head .
`` Oh , no , '' she wrote , `` I do not mind at all .
Of course I am sorry I can not speak , but I am quite used to the thought and it never hurts me at all . ''
`` Then , Kilmeny , tell me this .
Do you know why it is that you are unable to speak , when all your other faculties are so perfect ? ''
`` No , I do not know at all why I can not speak .
I asked mother once and she told me it was a judgment on her for a great sin she had committed , and she looked so strangely that I was frightened , and I never spoke of it to her or anyone else again . ''
`` Were you ever taken to a doctor to have your tongue and organs of speech examined ? ''
`` No .
I remember when I was a very little girl that Uncle Thomas wanted to take me to a doctor in Charlottetown and see if anything could be done for me , but mother would not let him .
She said it would be no use .
And I do not think Uncle Thomas thought it would be , either . ''
`` You can laugh very naturally .
Can you make any other sound ? ''
`` Yes , sometimes .
When I am pleased or frightened I have made little cries .
But it is only when I am not thinking of it at all that I can do that .
If I TRY to make a sound I can not do it at all . ''
This seemed to Eric more mysterious than ever .
`` Do you ever try to speak -- to utter words ? ''
he persisted .
`` Oh yes , very often .
All the time I am saying the words in my head , just as I hear other people saying them , but I never can make my tongue say them .
Do not look so sorry , my friend .
I am very happy and I do not mind so very much not being able to speak -- only sometimes when I have so many thoughts and it seems so slow to write them out , some of them get away from me .
I must play to you again .
You look too sober . ''
She laughed again , picked up her violin , and played a tinkling , roguish little melody as if she were trying to tease him , looking at Eric over her violin with luminous eyes that dared him to be merry .
Eric smiled ; but the puzzled look returned to his face many times that evening .
He walked home in a brown study .
Kilmeny 's case certainly seemed a strange one , and the more he thought of it the stranger it seemed .
`` It strikes me as something very peculiar that she should be able to make sounds only when she is not thinking about it , '' he reflected .
`` I wish David Baker could examine her .
But I suppose that is out of the question .
That grim pair who have charge of her would never consent . ''
CHAPTER IX .
THE STRAIGHT SIMPLICITY OF EVE For the next three weeks Eric Marshall seemed to himself to be living two lives , as distinct from each other as if he possessed a double personality .
In one , he taught the Lindsay district school diligently and painstakingly ; solved problems ; argued on theology with Robert Williamson ; called at the homes of his pupils and took tea in state with their parents ; went to a rustic dance or two and played havoc , all unwittingly , with the hearts of the Lindsay maidens .
But this life was a dream of workaday .
He only LIVED in the other , which was spent in an old orchard , grassy and overgrown , where the minutes seemed to lag for sheer love of the spot and the June winds made wild harping in the old spruces .
Here every evening he met Kilmeny ; in that old orchard they garnered hours of quiet happiness together ; together they went wandering in the fair fields of old romance ; together they read many books and talked of many things ; and , when they were tired of all else , Kilmeny played to him and the old orchard echoed with her lovely , fantastic melodies .
At every meeting her beauty came home afresh to him with the old thrill of glad surprise .
In the intervals of absence it seemed to him that she could not possibly be as beautiful as he remembered her ; and then when they met she seemed even more so .
He learned to watch for the undisguised light of welcome that always leaped into her eyes at the sound of his footsteps .
She was nearly always there before him and she always showed that she was glad to see him with the frank delight of a child watching for a dear comrade .
She was never in the same mood twice .
Now she was grave , now gay , now stately , now pensive .
But she was always charming .
Thrawn and twisted the old Gordon stock might be , but it had at least this one offshoot of perfect grace and symmetry .
Her mind and heart , utterly unspoiled of the world , were as beautiful as her face .
All the ugliness of existence had passed her by , shrined in her double solitude of upbringing and muteness .
She was naturally quick and clever .
Delightful little flashes of wit and humour sparkled out occasionally .
She could be whimsical -- even charmingly capricious .
Sometimes innocent mischief glimmered out in the unfathomable deeps of her blue eyes .
Sarcasm , even , was not unknown to her .
Now and then she punctured some harmless bubble of a young man 's conceit or masculine superiority with a biting little line of daintily written script .
She assimilated the ideas in the books they read , speedily , eagerly , and thoroughly , always seizing on the best and truest , and rejecting the false and spurious and weak with an unfailing intuition at which Eric marvelled .
Hers was the spear of Ithuriel , trying out the dross of everything and leaving only the pure gold .
In manner and outlook she was still a child .
Yet now and again she was as old as Eve .
An expression would leap into her laughing face , a subtle meaning reveal itself in her smile , that held all the lore of womanhood and all the wisdom of the ages .
Her way of smiling enchanted him .
The smile always began far down in her eyes and flowed outward to her face like a sparkling brook stealing out of shadow into sunshine .
He knew everything about her life .
She told him her simple history freely .
She often mentioned her uncle and aunt and seemed to regard them with deep affection .
She rarely spoke of her mother .
Eric came somehow to understand , less from what she said than from what she did not say , that Kilmeny , though she had loved her mother , had always been rather afraid of her .
There had not been between them the natural beautiful confidence of mother and child .
Of Neil , she wrote frequently at first , and seemed very fond of him .
Later she ceased to mention him .
Perhaps -- for she was marvellously quick to catch and interpret every fleeting change of expression in his voice and face -- she discerned what Eric did not know himself -- that his eyes clouded and grew moody at the mention of Neil 's name .
Once she asked him naively , `` Are there many people like you out in the world ? ''
`` Thousands of them , '' said Eric , laughing .
She looked gravely at him .
Then she gave her head a quick decided little shake .
`` I do not think so , '' she wrote .
`` I do not know much of the world , but I do not think there are many people like you in it . ''
One evening , when the far-away hills and fields were scarfed in gauzy purples , and the intervales were brimming with golden mists , Eric carried to the old orchard a little limp , worn volume that held a love story .
It was the first thing of the kind he had ever read to her , for in the first novel he had lent her the love interest had been very slight and subordinate .
This was a beautiful , passionate idyl exquisitely told .
He read it to her , lying in the grass at her feet ; she listened with her hands clasped over her knee and her eyes cast down .
It was not a long story ; and when he had finished it he shut the book and looked up at her questioningly .
`` Do you like it , Kilmeny ? ''
he asked .
Very slowly she took her slate and wrote , `` Yes , I like it .
But it hurt me , too .
I did not know that a person could like anything that hurt her .
I do not know why it hurt me .
I felt as if I had lost something that I never had .
That was a very silly feeling , was it not ?
But I did not understand the book very well , you see .
It is about love and I do not know anything about love .
Mother told me once that love is a curse , and that I must pray that it would never enter into my life .
She said it very earnestly , and so I believed her .
But your book teaches that it is a blessing .
It says that it is the most splendid and wonderful thing in life .
Which am I to believe ? ''
`` Love -- real love -- is never a curse , Kilmeny , '' said Eric gravely .
`` There is a false love which IS a curse .
Perhaps your mother believed it was that which had entered her life and ruined it ; and so she made the mistake .
There is nothing in the world -- or in heaven either , as I believe -- so truly beautiful and wonderful and blessed as love . ''
`` Have you ever loved ? ''
asked Kilmeny , with the directness of phrasing necessitated by her mode of communication which was sometimes a little terrible .
She asked the question simply and without embarrassment .
She knew of no reason why love might not be discussed with Eric as other matters -- music and books and travel -- might be .
`` No , '' said Eric -- honestly , as he thought , `` but every one has an ideal of love whom he hopes to meet some day -- ` the ideal woman of a young man 's dream . '
I suppose I have mine , in some sealed , secret chamber of my heart . ''
`` I suppose your ideal woman would be beautiful , like the woman in your book ? ''
`` Oh , yes , I am sure I could never care for an ugly woman , '' said Eric , laughing a little as he sat up .
`` Our ideals are always beautiful , whether they so translate themselves into realities or not .
But the sun is going down .
Time does certainly fly in this enchanted orchard .
I believe you bewitch the moments away , Kilmeny .
Your namesake of the poem was a somewhat uncanny maid , if I recollect aright , and thought as little of seven years in elfland as ordinary folk do of half an hour on upper earth .
Some day I shall waken from a supposed hour 's lingering here and find myself an old man with white hair and ragged coat , as in that fairy tale we read the other night .
Will you let me give you this book ?
I should never commit the sacrilege of reading it in any other place than this .
It is an old book , Kilmeny .
A new book , savouring of the shop and market-place , however beautiful it might be , would not do for you .
This was one of my mother 's books .
She read it and loved it .
See -- the faded rose leaves she placed in it one day are there still .
I 'll write your name in it -- that quaint , pretty name of yours which always sounds as if it had been specially invented for you -- ` Kilmeny of the Orchard ' -- and the date of this perfect June day on which we read it together .
Then when you look at it you will always remember me , and the white buds opening on that rosebush beside you , and the rush and murmur of the wind in the tops of those old spruces . ''
He held out the book to her , but , to his surprise , she shook her head , with a deeper flush on her face .
`` Wo n't you take the book , Kilmeny ?
Why not ? ''
She took her pencil and wrote slowly , unlike her usual quick movement .
`` Do not be offended with me .
I shall not need anything to make me remember you because I can never forget you .
But I would rather not take the book .
I do not want to read it again .
It is about love , and there is no use in my learning about love , even if it is all you say .
Nobody will ever love me .
I am too ugly . ''
`` You !
Ugly ! ''
exclaimed Eric .
He was on the point of going off into a peal of laughter at the idea when a glimpse of her half averted face sobered him .
On it was a hurt , bitter look , such as he remembered seeing once before , when he had asked her if she would not like to see the world for herself .
`` Kilmeny , '' he said in astonishment , `` you do n't really think yourself ugly , do you ? ''
She nodded , without looking at him , and then wrote , `` Oh , yes , I know that I am .
I have known it for a long time .
Mother told me that I was very ugly and that nobody would ever like to look at me .
I am sorry .
It hurts me much worse to know I am ugly than it does to know I can not speak .
I suppose you will think that is very foolish of me , but it is true .
That was why I did not come back to the orchard for such a long time , even after I had got over my fright .
I hated to think that YOU would think me ugly .
And that is why I do not want to go out into the world and meet people .
They would look at me as the egg peddler did one day when I went out with Aunt Janet to his wagon the spring after mother died .
He stared at me so .
I knew it was because he thought me so ugly , and I have always hidden when he came ever since . ''
Eric 's lips twitched .
In spite of his pity for the real suffering displayed in her eyes , he could not help feeling amused over the absurd idea of this beautiful girl believing herself in all seriousness to be ugly .
`` But , Kilmeny , do you think yourself ugly when you look in a mirror ? ''
he asked smiling .
`` I have never looked in a mirror , '' she wrote .
`` I never knew there was such a thing until after mother died , and I read about it in a book .
Then I asked Aunt Janet and she said mother had broken all the looking glasses in the house when I was a baby .
But I have seen my face reflected in the spoons , and in a little silver sugar bowl Aunt Janet has .
And it IS ugly -- very ugly . ''
Eric 's face went down into the grass .
For his life he could not help laughing ; and for his life he would not let Kilmeny see him laughing .
A certain little whimsical wish took possession of him and he did not hasten to tell her the truth , as had been his first impulse .
Instead , when he dared to look up he said slowly , `` I do n't think you are ugly , Kilmeny . ''
`` Oh , but I am sure you must , '' she wrote protestingly .
`` Even Neil does .
He tells me I am kind and nice , but one day I asked him if he thought me very ugly , and he looked away and would not speak , so I knew what he thought about it , too .
Do not let us speak of this again .
It makes me feel sorry and spoils everything .
I forget it at other times .
Let me play you some good-bye music , and do not feel vexed because I would not take your book .
It would only make me unhappy to read it . ''
`` I am not vexed , '' said Eric , `` and I think you will take it some day yet -- after I have shown you something I want you to see .
Never mind about your looks , Kilmeny .
Beauty is n't everything . ''
`` Oh , it is a great deal , '' she wrote naively .
`` But you do like me , even though I am so ugly , do n't you ?
You like me because of my beautiful music , do n't you ? ''
`` I like you very much , Kilmeny , '' answered Eric , laughing a little ; but there was in his voice a tender note of which he was unconscious .
Kilmeny was aware of it , however , and she picked up her violin with a pleased smile .
He left her playing there , and all the way through the dim resinous spruce wood her music followed him like an invisible guardian spirit .
`` Kilmeny the Beautiful ! ''
he murmured , `` and yet , good heavens , the child thinks she is ugly -- she with a face more lovely than ever an artist dreamed of !
A girl of eighteen who has never looked in a mirror !
I wonder if there is another such in any civilized country in the world .
What could have possessed her mother to tell her such a falsehood ?
I wonder if Margaret Gordon could have been quite sane .
It is strange that Neil has never told her the truth .
Perhaps he does n't want her to find out . ''
Eric had met Neil Gordon a few evenings before this , at a country dance where Neil had played the violin for the dancers .
Influenced by curiosity he had sought the lad 's acquaintance .
Neil was friendly and talkative at first ; but at the first hint concerning the Gordons which Eric threw out skilfully his face and manner changed .
He looked secretive and suspicious , almost sinister .
A sullen look crept into his big black eyes and he drew his bow across the violin strings with a discordant screech , as if to terminate the conversation .
Plainly nothing was to be found out from him about Kilmeny and her grim guardians .
CHAPTER X .
A TROUBLING OF THE WATERS One evening in late June Mrs. Williamson was sitting by her kitchen window .
Her knitting lay unheeded in her lap , and Timothy , though he nestled ingratiatingly against her foot as he lay on the rug and purred his loudest , was unregarded .
She rested her face on her hand and looked out of the window , across the distant harbour , with troubled eyes .
`` I guess I must speak , '' she thought wistfully .
`` I hate to do it .
I always did hate meddling .
My mother always used to say that ninety-nine times out of a hundred the last state of a meddler and them she meddled with was worse than the first .
But I guess it 's my duty .
I was Margaret 's friend , and it is my duty to protect her child any way I can .
If the Master does go back across there to meet her I must tell him what I think about it . ''
Overhead in his room , Eric was walking about whistling .
Presently he came downstairs , thinking of the orchard , and the girl who would be waiting for him there .
As he crossed the little front entry he heard Mrs. Williamson 's voice calling to him .
`` Mr. Marshall , will you please come here a moment ? ''
He went out to the kitchen .
Mrs. Williamson looked at him deprecatingly .
There was a flush on her faded cheek and her voice trembled .
`` Mr. Marshall , I want to ask you a question .
Perhaps you will think it is n't any of my business .
But it is n't because I want to meddle .
No , no .
It is only because I think I ought to speak .
I have thought it over for a long time , and it seems to me that I ought to speak .
I hope you wo n't be angry , but even if you are I must say what I have to say .
Are you going back to the old Connors orchard to meet Kilmeny Gordon ? ''
For a moment an angry flush burned in Eric 's face .
It was more Mrs. Williamson 's tone than her words which startled and annoyed him .
`` Yes , I am , Mrs. Williamson , '' he said coldly .
`` What of it ? ''
`` Then , sir , '' said Mrs. Williamson with more firmness , `` I have got to tell you that I do n't think you are doing right .
I have been suspecting all along that that was where you went every evening , but I have n't said a word to any one about it .
Even my husband does n't know .
But tell me this , Master .
Do Kilmeny 's uncle and aunt know that you are meeting her there ? ''
`` Why , '' said Eric , in some confusion , `` I -- I do not know whether they do or not .
But Mrs. Williamson , surely you do not suspect me of meaning any harm or wrong to Kilmeny Gordon ? ''
`` No , I do n't , Master .
I might think it of some men , but never of you .
I do n't for a minute think that you would do her or any woman any wilful wrong .
But you may do her great harm for all that .
I want you to stop and think about it .
I guess you have n't thought .
Kilmeny ca n't know anything about the world or about men , and she may get to thinking too much of you .
That might break her heart , because you could n't ever marry a dumb girl like her .
So I do n't think you ought to be meeting her so often in this fashion .
It is n't right , Master .
Do n't go to the orchard again . ''
Without a word Eric turned away , and went upstairs to his room .
Mrs. Williamson picked up her knitting with a sigh .
`` That 's done , Timothy , and I 'm real thankful , '' she said .
`` I guess there 'll be no need of saying anything more .
Mr. Marshall is a fine young man , only a little thoughtless .
Now that he 's got his eyes opened I 'm sure he 'll do what is right .
I do n't want Margaret 's child made unhappy . ''
Her husband came to the kitchen door and sat down on the steps to enjoy his evening smoke , talking between whiffs to his wife of Elder Tracy 's church row , and Mary Alice Martin 's beau , the price Jake Crosby was giving for eggs , the quantity of hay yielded by the hill meadow , the trouble he was having with old Molly 's calf , and the respective merits of Plymouth Rock and Brahma roosters .
Mrs. Williamson answered at random , and heard not one word in ten .
`` What 's got the Master , Mother ? ''
inquired old Robert , presently .
`` I hear him striding up and down in his room ` sif he was caged .
Sure you did n't lock him in by mistake ? ''
`` Maybe he 's worried over the way Seth Tracy 's acting in school , '' suggested Mrs. Williamson , who did not choose that her gossipy husband should suspect the truth about Eric and Kilmeny Gordon .
`` Shucks , he need n't worry a morsel over that .
Seth 'll quiet down as soon as he finds he ca n't run the Master .
He 's a rare good teacher -- better 'n Mr. West was even , and that 's saying something .
The trustees are hoping he 'll stay for another term .
They 're going to ask him at the school meeting to-morrow , and offer him a raise of supplement . ''
Upstairs , in his little room under the eaves , Eric Marshall was in the grip of the most intense and overwhelming emotion he had ever experienced .
Up and down , to and fro , he walked , with set lips and clenched hands .
When he was wearied out he flung himself on a chair by the window and wrestled with the flood of feeling .
Mrs. Williamson 's words had torn away the delusive veil with which he had bound his eyes .
He was face to face with the knowledge that he loved Kilmeny Gordon with the love that comes but once , and is for all time .
He wondered how he could have been so long blind to it .
He knew that he must have loved her ever since their first meeting that May evening in the old orchard .
And he knew that he must choose between two alternatives -- either he must never go to the orchard again , or he must go as an avowed lover to woo him a wife .
Worldly prudence , his inheritance from a long line of thrifty , cool-headed ancestors , was strong in Eric , and he did not yield easily or speedily to the dictates of his passion .
All night he struggled against the new emotions that threatened to sweep away the `` common sense '' which David Baker had bade him take with him when he went a-wooing .
Would not a marriage with Kilmeny Gordon be an unwise thing from any standpoint ?
Then something stronger and greater and more vital than wisdom or unwisdom rose up in him and mastered him .
Kilmeny , beautiful , dumb Kilmeny was , as he had once involuntarily thought , `` the one maid '' for him .
Nothing should part them .
The mere idea of never seeing her again was so unbearable that he laughed at himself for having counted it a possible alternative .
`` If I can win Kilmeny 's love I shall ask her to be my wife , '' he said , looking out of the window to the dark , southwestern hill beyond which lay his orchard .
The velvet sky over it was still starry ; but the water of the harbour was beginning to grow silvery in the reflection of the dawn that was breaking in the east .
`` Her misfortune will only make her dearer to me .
I can not realize that a month ago I did not know her .
It seems to me that she has been a part of my life for ever .
I wonder if she was grieved that I did not go to the orchard last night -- if she waited for me .
If she does , she does not know it herself yet .
It will be my sweet task to teach her what love means , and no man has ever had a lovelier , purer , pupil . ''
At the annual school meeting , the next afternoon , the trustees asked Eric to take the Lindsay school for the following year .
He consented unhesitatingly .
That evening he went to Mrs. Williamson , as she washed her tea dishes in the kitchen .
`` Mrs. Williamson , I am going back to the old Connors orchard to see Kilmeny again to-night . ''
She looked at him reproachfully .
`` Well , Master , I have no more to say .
I suppose it would n't be of any use if I had .
But you know what I think of it . ''
`` I intend to marry Kilmeny Gordon if I can win her . ''
An expression of amazement came into the good woman 's face .
She looked scrutinizingly at the firm mouth and steady gray eyes for a moment .
Then she said in a troubled voice , `` Do you think that is wise , Master ?
I suppose Kilmeny is pretty ; the egg peddler told me she was ; and no doubt she is a good , nice girl .
But she would n't be a suitable wife for you -- a girl that ca n't speak . ''
`` That does n't make any difference to me . ''
`` But what will your people say ? ''
`` I have no ` people ' except my father .
When he sees Kilmeny he will understand .
She is all the world to me , Mrs. Williamson . ''
`` As long as you believe that there is nothing more to be said , '' was the quiet answer , `` I 'd be a little bit afraid if I was you , though .
But young people never think of those things . ''
`` My only fear is that she wo n't care for me , '' said Eric soberly .
Mrs. Williamson surveyed the handsome , broad-shouldered young man shrewdly .
`` I do n't think there are many women would say you ` no ' , Master .
I wish you well in your wooing , though I ca n't help thinking you 're doing a daft-like thing .
I hope you wo n't have any trouble with Thomas and Janet .
They are so different from other folks there is no knowing .
But take my advice , Master , and go and see them about it right off .
Do n't go on meeting Kilmeny unbeknownst to them . ''
`` I shall certainly take your advice , '' said Eric , gravely .
`` I should have gone to them before .
It was merely thoughtlessness on my part .
Possibly they do know already .
Kilmeny may have told them . ''
Mrs. Williamson shook her head decidedly .
`` No , no , Master , she has n't .
They 'd never have let her go on meeting you there if they had known .
I know them too well to think of that for a moment .
Go you straight to them and say to them just what you have said to me .
That is your best plan , Master .
And take care of Neil .
People say he has a notion of Kilmeny himself .
He 'll do you a bad turn if he can , I 've no doubt .
Them foreigners ca n't be trusted -- and he 's just as much a foreigner as his parents before him -- though he HAS been brought up on oatmeal and the shorter catechism , as the old saying has it .
I feel that somehow -- I always feel it when I look at him singing in the choir . ''
`` Oh , I am not afraid of Neil , '' said Eric carelessly .
`` He could n't help loving Kilmeny -- nobody could . ''
`` I suppose every young man thinks that about his girl -- if he 's the right sort of young man , '' said Mrs. Williamson with a little sigh .
She watched Eric out of sight anxiously .
`` I hope it 'll all come out right , '' she thought .
`` I hope he ai n't making an awful mistake -- but -- I 'm afraid .
Kilmeny must be very pretty to have bewitched him so .
Well , I suppose there is no use in my worrying over it .
But I do wish he had never gone back to that old orchard and seen her . ''
CHAPTER XI .
A LOVER AND HIS LASS Kilmeny was in the orchard when Eric reached it , and he lingered for a moment in the shadow of the spruce wood to dream over her beauty .
The orchard had lately overflowed in waves of old-fashioned caraway , and she was standing in the midst of its sea of bloom , with the lace-like blossoms swaying around her in the wind .
She wore the simple dress of pale blue print in which he had first seen her ; silk attire could not better have become her loveliness .
She had woven herself a chaplet of half open white rosebuds and placed it on her dark hair , where the delicate blossoms seemed less wonderful than her face .
When Eric stepped through the gap she ran to meet him with outstretched hands , smiling .
He took her hands and looked into her eyes with an expression before which hers for the first time faltered .
She looked down , and a warm blush strained the ivory curves of her cheek and throat .
His heart bounded , for in that blush he recognized the banner of love 's vanguard .
`` Are you glad to see me , Kilmeny ? ''
he asked , in a low significant tone .
She nodded , and wrote in a somewhat embarrassed fashion , `` Yes .
Why do you ask ?
You know I am always glad to see you .
I was afraid you would not come .
You did not come last night and I was so sorry .
Nothing in the orchard seemed nice any longer .
I could n't even play .
I tried to , and my violin only cried .
I waited until it was dark and then I went home . ''
`` I am sorry you were disappointed , Kilmeny .
I could n't come last night .
Some day I shall tell you why .
I stayed home to learn a new lesson .
I am sorry you missed me -- no , I am glad .
Can you understand how a person may be glad and sorry for the same thing ? ''
She nodded again , with a return of her usual sweet composure .
`` Yes , I could not have understood once , but I can now .
Did you learn your new lesson ? ''
`` Yes , very thoroughly .
It was a delightful lesson when I once understood it .
I must try to teach it to you some day .
Come over to the old bench , Kilmeny .
There is something I want to say to you .
But first , will you give me a rose ? ''
She ran to the bush , and , after careful deliberation , selected a perfect half-open bud and brought it to him -- a white bud with a faint , sunrise flush about its golden heart .
`` Thank you .
It is as beautiful as -- as a woman I know , '' Eric said .
A wistful look came into her face at his words , and she walked with a drooping head across the orchard to the bench .
`` Kilmeny , '' he said , seriously , `` I am going to ask you to do something for me .
I want you to take me home with you and introduce me to your uncle and aunt . ''
She lifted her head and stared at him incredulously , as if he had asked her to do something wildly impossible .
Understanding from his grave face that he meant what he said , a look of dismay dawned in her eyes .
She shook her head almost violently and seemed to be making a passionate , instinctive effort to speak .
Then she caught up her pencil and wrote with feverish haste : `` I can not do that .
Do not ask me to .
You do not understand .
They would be very angry .
They do not want to see any one coming to the house .
And they would never let me come here again .
Oh , you do not mean it ? ''
He pitied her for the pain and bewilderment in her eyes ; but he took her slender hands in his and said firmly , `` Yes , Kilmeny , I do mean it .
It is not quite right for us to be meeting each other here as we have been doing , without the knowledge and consent of your friends .
You can not now understand this , but -- believe me -- it is so . ''
She looked questioningly , pityingly into his eyes .
What she read there seemed to convince her , for she turned very pale and an expression of hopelessness came into her face .
Releasing her hands , she wrote slowly , `` If you say it is wrong I must believe it .
I did not know anything so pleasant could be wrong .
But if it is wrong we must not meet here any more .
Mother told me I must never do anything that was wrong .
But I did not know this was wrong . ''
`` It was not wrong for you , Kilmeny .
But it was a little wrong for me , because I knew better -- or rather , should have known better .
I did n't stop to think , as the children say .
Some day you will understand fully .
Now , you will take me to your uncle and aunt , and after I have said to them what I want to say it will be all right for us to meet here or anywhere . ''
She shook her head .
`` No , '' she wrote , `` Uncle Thomas and Aunt Janet will tell you to go away and never come back .
And they will never let me come here any more .
Since it is not right to meet you I will not come , but it is no use to think of going to them .
I did not tell them about you because I knew that they would forbid me to see you , but I am sorry , since it is so wrong . ''
`` You must take me to them , '' said Eric firmly .
`` I am quite sure that things will not be as you fear when they hear what I have to say . ''
Uncomforted , she wrote forlornly , `` I must do it , since you insist , but I am sure it will be no use .
I can not take you to-night because they are away .
They went to the store at Radnor .
But I will take you to-morrow night ; and after that I shall not see you any more . ''
Two great tears brimmed over in her big blue eyes and splashed down on her slate .
Her lips quivered like a hurt child 's .
Eric put his arm impulsively about her and drew her head down upon his shoulder .
As she cried there , softly , miserably , he pressed his lips to the silky black hair with its coronal of rosebuds .
He did not see two burning eyes which were looking at him over the old fence behind him with hatred and mad passion blazing in their depths .
Neil Gordon was crouched there , with clenched hands and heaving breast , watching them .
`` Kilmeny , dear , do n't cry , '' said Eric tenderly .
`` You shall see me again .
I promise you that , whatever happens .
I do not think your uncle and aunt will be as unreasonable as you fear , but even if they are they shall not prevent me from meeting you somehow . ''
Kilmeny lifted her head , and wiped the tears from her eyes .
`` You do not know what they are like , '' she wrote .
`` They will lock me into my room .
That is the way they always punished me when I was a little girl .
And once , not so very long ago , when I was a big girl , they did it . ''
`` If they do I 'll get you out somehow , '' said Eric , laughing a little .
She allowed herself to smile , but it was a rather forlorn little effort .
She did not cry any more , but her spirits did not come back to her .
Eric talked gaily , but she only listened in a pensive , absent way , as if she scarcely heard him .
When he asked her to play she shook her head .
`` I can not think any music to-night , '' she wrote , `` I must go home , for my head aches and I feel very stupid . ''
`` Very well , Kilmeny .
Now , do n't worry , little girl .
It will all come out all right . ''
Evidently she did not share his confidence , for her head drooped again as they walked together across the orchard .
At the entrance of the wild cherry lane she paused and looked at him half reproachfully , her eyes filling again .
She seemed to be bidding him a mute farewell .
With an impulse of tenderness which he could not control , Eric put his arm about her and kissed her red , trembling mouth .
She started back with a little cry .
A burning colour swept over her face , and the next moment she fled swiftly up the darkening lane .
The sweetness of that involuntary kiss clung to Eric 's lips as he went homeward , half-intoxicating him .
He knew that it had opened the gates of womanhood to Kilmeny .
Never again , he felt , would her eyes meet his with their old unclouded frankness .
When next he looked into them he knew that he should see there the consciousness of his kiss .
Behind her in the orchard that night Kilmeny had left her childhood .
CHAPTER XII .
A PRISONER OF LOVE When Eric betook himself to the orchard the next evening he had to admit that he felt rather nervous .
He did not know how the Gordons would receive him and certainly the reports he had heard of them were not encouraging , to say the least of it .
Even Mrs. Williamson , when he had told her where he was going , seemed to look upon him as one bent on bearding a lion in his den .
`` I do hope they wo n't be very uncivil to you , Master , '' was the best she could say .
He expected Kilmeny to be in the orchard before him , for he had been delayed by a call from one of the trustees ; but she was nowhere to be seen .
He walked across it to the wild cherry lane ; but at its entrance he stopped short in sudden dismay .
Neil Gordon had stepped from behind the trees and stood confronting him , with blazing eyes , and lips which writhed in emotion so great that at first it prevented him from speaking .
With a thrill of dismay Eric instantly understood what must have taken place .
Neil had discovered that he and Kilmeny had been meeting in the orchard , and beyond doubt had carried that tale to Janet and Thomas Gordon .
He realized how unfortunate it was that this should have happened before he had had time to make his own explanation .
It would probably prejudice Kilmeny 's guardians still further against him .
At this point in his thoughts Neil 's pent up passion suddenly found vent in a burst of wild words .
`` So you 've come to meet her again .
But she is n't here -- you 'll never see her again !
I hate you -- I hate you -- I hate you ! ''
His voice rose to a shrill scream .
He took a furious step nearer Eric as if he would attack him .
Eric looked steadily in his eyes with a calm defiance , before which his wild passion broke like foam on a rock .
`` So you have been making trouble for Kilmeny , Neil , have you ? ''
said Eric contemptuously .
`` I suppose you have been playing the spy .
And I suppose that you have told her uncle and aunt that she has been meeting me here .
Well , you have saved me the trouble of doing it , that is all .
I was going to tell them myself , tonight .
I do n't know what your motive in doing this has been .
Was it jealousy of me ?
Or have you done it out of malice to Kilmeny ? ''
His contempt cowed Neil more effectually than any display of anger could have done .
`` Never you mind why I did it , '' he muttered sullenly .
`` What I did or why I did it is no business of yours .
And you have no business to come sneaking around here either .
Kilmeny wo n't meet you here again . ''
`` She will meet me in her own home then , '' said Eric sternly .
`` Neil , in behaving as you have done you have shown yourself to be a very foolish , undisciplined boy .
I am going straightway to Kilmeny 's uncle and aunt to explain everything . ''
Neil sprang forward in his path .
`` No -- no -- go away , '' he implored wildly .
`` Oh , sir -- oh , Mr. Marshall , please go away .
I 'll do anything for you if you will .
I love Kilmeny .
I 've loved her all my life .
I 'd give my life for her .
I ca n't have you coming here to steal her from me .
If you do -- I 'll kill you !
I wanted to kill you last night when I saw you kiss her .
Oh , yes , I saw you .
I was watching -- spying , if you like .
I do n't care what you call it .
I had followed her -- I suspected something .
She was so different -- so changed .
She never would wear the flowers I picked for her any more .
She seemed to forget I was there .
I knew something had come between us .
And it was you , curse you !
Oh , I 'll make you sorry for it . ''
He was working himself up into a fury again -- the untamed fury of the Italian peasant thwarted in his heart 's desire .
It overrode all the restraint of his training and environment .
Eric , amid all his anger and annoyance , felt a thrill of pity for him .
Neil Gordon was only a boy still ; and he was miserable and beside himself .
`` Neil , listen to me , '' he said quietly .
`` You are talking very foolishly .
It is not for you to say who shall or shall not be Kilmeny 's friend .
Now , you may just as well control yourself and go home like a decent fellow .
I am not at all frightened by your threats , and I shall know how to deal with you if you persist in interfering with me or persecuting Kilmeny .
I am not the sort of person to put up with that , my lad . ''
The restrained power in his tone and look cowed Neil .
The latter turned sullenly away , with another muttered curse , and plunged into the shadow of the firs .
Eric , not a little ruffled under all his external composure by this most unexpected and unpleasant encounter , pursued his way along the lane which wound on by the belt of woodland in twist and curve to the Gordon homestead .
His heart beat as he thought of Kilmeny .
What might she not be suffering ?
Doubtless Neil had given a very exaggerated and distorted account of what he had seen , and probably her dour relations were very angry with her , poor child .
Anxious to avert their wrath as soon as might be , he hurried on , almost forgetting his meeting with Neil .
The threats of the latter did not trouble him at all .
He thought the angry outburst of a jealous boy mattered but little .
What did matter was that Kilmeny was in trouble which his heedlessness had brought upon her .
Presently he found himself before the Gordon house .
It was an old building with sharp eaves and dormer windows , its shingles stained a dark gray by long exposure to wind and weather .
Faded green shutters hung on the windows of the lower story .
Behind it grew a thick wood of spruces .
The little yard in front of it was grassy and prim and flowerless ; but over the low front door a luxuriant early-flowering rose vine clambered , in a riot of blood-red blossom which contrasted strangely with the general bareness of its surroundings .
It seemed to fling itself over the grim old house as if intent on bombarding it with an alien life and joyousness .
Eric knocked at the door , wondering if it might be possible that Kilmeny should come to it .
But a moment later it was opened by an elderly woman -- a woman of rigid lines from the hem of her lank , dark print dress to the crown of her head , covered with black hair which , despite its few gray threads , was still thick and luxuriant .
She had a long , pale face somewhat worn and wrinkled , but possessing a certain harsh comeliness of feature which neither age nor wrinkles had quite destroyed ; and her deep-set , light gray eyes were not devoid of suggested kindliness , although they now surveyed Eric with an unconcealed hostility .
Her figure , in its merciless dress , was very angular ; yet there was about her a dignity of carriage and manner which Eric liked .
In any case , he preferred her unsmiling dourness to vulgar garrulity .
He lifted his hat .
`` Have I the honour of speaking to Miss Gordon ? ''
he asked .
`` I am Janet Gordon , '' said the woman stiffly .
`` Then I wish to talk with you and your brother . ''
`` Come in . ''
She stepped aside and motioned him to a low brown door opening on the right .
`` Go in and sit down .
I 'll call Thomas , '' she said coldly , as she walked out through the hall .
Eric walked into the parlour and sat down as bidden .
He found himself in the most old-fashioned room he had ever seen .
The solidly made chairs and tables , of some wood grown dark and polished with age , made even Mrs. Williamson 's `` parlour set '' of horsehair seem extravagantly modern by contrast .
The painted floor was covered with round braided rugs .
On the centre table was a lamp , a Bible and some theological volumes contemporary with the square-runged furniture .
The walls , wainscoted half way up in wood and covered for the rest with a dark , diamond - patterned paper , were hung with faded engravings , mostly of clerical-looking , bewigged personages in gowns and bands .
But over the high , undecorated black mantel-piece , in a ruddy glow of sunset light striking through the window , hung one which caught and held Eric 's attention to the exclusion of everything else .
It was the enlarged `` crayon '' photograph of a young girl , and , in spite of the crudity of execution , it was easily the center of interest in the room .
Eric at once guessed that this must be the picture of Margaret Gordon , for , although quite unlike Kilmeny 's sensitive , spirited face in general , there was a subtle , unmistakable resemblance about brow and chin .
The pictured face was a very handsome one , suggestive of velvety dark eyes and vivid colouring ; but it was its expression rather than its beauty which fascinated Eric .
Never had he seen a countenance indicative of more intense and stubborn will power .
Margaret Gordon was dead and buried ; the picture was a cheap and inartistic production in an impossible frame of gilt and plush ; yet the vitality in that face dominated its surroundings still .
What then must have been the power of such a personality in life ?
Eric realized that this woman could and would have done whatsoever she willed , unflinchingly and unrelentingly .
She could stamp her desire on everything and everybody about her , moulding them to her wish and will , in their own despite and in defiance of all the resistance they might make .
Many things in Kilmeny 's upbringing and temperament became clear to him .
`` If that woman had told me I was ugly I should have believed her , '' he thought .
`` Ay , even though I had a mirror to contradict her .
I should never have dreamed of disputing or questioning anything she might have said .
The strange power in her face is almost uncanny , peering out as it does from a mask of beauty and youthful curves .
Pride and stubbornness are its salient characteristics .
Well , Kilmeny does not at all resemble her mother in expression and only very slightly in feature . ''
His reflections were interrupted by the entrance of Thomas and Janet Gordon .
The latter had evidently been called from his work .
He nodded without speaking , and the two sat gravely down before Eric .
`` I have come to see you with regard to your niece , Mr. Gordon , '' he said abruptly , realizing that there would be small use in beating about the bush with this grim pair .
`` I met your -- I met Neil Gordon in the Connors orchard , and I found that he has told you that I have been meeting Kilmeny there . ''
He paused .
Thomas Gordon nodded again ; but he did not speak , and he did not remove his steady , piercing eyes from the young man 's flushed countenance .
Janet still sat in a sort of expectant immovability .
`` I fear that you have formed an unfavourable opinion of me on this account , Mr. Gordon , '' Eric went on .
`` But I hardly think I deserve it .
I can explain the matter if you will allow me .
I met your niece accidentally in the orchard three weeks ago and heard her play .
I thought her music very wonderful and I fell into the habit of coming to the orchard in the evenings to hear it .
I had no thought of harming her in any way , Mr. Gordon .
I thought of her as a mere child , and a child who was doubly sacred because of her affliction .
But recently I -- I -- it occurred to me that I was not behaving quite honourably in encouraging her to meet me thus .
Yesterday evening I asked her to bring me here and introduce me to you and her aunt .
We would have come then if you had been at home .
As you were not we arranged to come tonight . ''
`` I hope you will not refuse me the privilege of seeing your niece , Mr. Gordon , '' said Eric eagerly .
`` I ask you to allow me to visit her here .
But I do not ask you to receive me as a friend on my own recommendations only .
I will give you references -- men of standing in Charlottetown and Queenslea .
If you refer to them -- '' `` I do n't need to do that , '' said Thomas Gordon , quietly .
`` I know more of you than you think , Master .
I know your father well by reputation and I have seen him .
I know you are a rich man 's son , whatever your whim in teaching a country school may be .
Since you have kept your own counsel about your affairs I supposed you did n't want your true position generally known , and so I have held my tongue about you .
I know no ill of you , Master , and I think none , now that I believe you were not beguiling Kilmeny to meet you unknown to her friends of set purpose .
But all this does n't make you a suitable friend for her , sir -- it makes you all the more unsuitable .
The less she sees of you the better . ''
Eric almost started to his feet in an indignant protest ; but he swiftly remembered that his only hope of winning Kilmeny lay in bringing Thomas Gordon to another way of thinking .
He had got on better than he had expected so far ; he must not now jeopardize what he had gained by rashness or impatience .
`` Why do you think so , Mr. Gordon ? ''
he asked , regaining his self-control with an effort .
`` Well , plain speaking is best , Master .
If you were to come here and see Kilmeny often she 'd most likely come to think too much of you .
I mistrust there 's some mischief done in that direction already .
Then when you went away she might break her heart -- for she is one of those who feel things deeply .
She has been happy enough .
I know folks condemn us for the way she has been brought up , but they do n't know everything .
It was the best way for her , all things considered .
And we do n't want her made unhappy , Master . ''
`` But I love your niece and I want to marry her if I can win her love , '' said Eric steadily .
He surprised them out of their self possession at last .
Both started , and looked at him as if they could not believe the evidence of their ears .
`` Marry her !
Marry Kilmeny ! ''
exclaimed Thomas Gordon incredulously .
`` You ca n't mean it , sir .
Why , she is dumb -- Kilmeny is dumb . ''
`` That makes no difference in my love for her , although I deeply regret it for her own sake , '' answered Eric .
`` I can only repeat what I have already said , Mr. Gordon .
I want Kilmeny for my wife . ''
The older man leaned forward and looked at the floor in a troubled fashion , drawing his bushy eyebrows down and tapping the calloused tips of his fingers together uneasily .
He was evidently puzzled by this unexpected turn of the conversation , and in grave doubt what to say .
`` What would your father say to all this , Master ? ''
he queried at last .
`` I have often heard my father say that a man must marry to please himself , '' said Eric , with a smile .
`` If he felt tempted to go back on that opinion I think the sight of Kilmeny would convert him .
But , after all , it is what I say that matters in this case , is n't it , Mr. Gordon ?
I am well educated and not afraid of work .
I can make a home for Kilmeny in a few years even if I have to depend entirely on my own resources .
Only give me the chance to win her -- that is all I ask . ''
`` I do n't think it would do , Master , '' said Thomas Gordon , shaking his head .
`` Of course , I dare say you -- you '' -- he tried to say `` love , '' but Scotch reserve balked stubbornly at the terrible word -- `` you think you like Kilmeny now , but you are only a lad -- and lads ' fancies change . ''
`` Mine will not , '' Eric broke in vehemently .
`` It is not a fancy , Mr. Gordon .
It is the love that comes once in a lifetime and once only .
I may be but a lad , but I know that Kilmeny is the one woman in the world for me .
There can never be any other .
Oh , I 'm not speaking rashly or inconsiderately .
I have weighed the matter well and looked at it from every aspect .
And it all comes to this -- I love Kilmeny and I want what any decent man who loves a woman truly has the right to have -- the chance to win her love in return . ''
`` Well ! ''
Thomas Gordon drew a long breath that was almost a sigh .
`` Maybe -- if you feel like that , Master -- I do n't know -- there are some things it is n't right to cross .
Perhaps we ought n't -- Janet , woman , what shall we say to him ? ''
Janet Gordon had hitherto spoken no word .
She had sat rigidly upright on one of the old chairs under Margaret Gordon 's insistent picture , with her knotted , toil-worn hands grasping the carved arms tightly , and her eyes fastened on Eric 's face .
At first their expression had been guarded and hostile , but as the conversation proceeded they lost this gradually and became almost kindly .
Now , when her brother appealed to her , she leaned forward and said eagerly , `` Do you know that there is a stain on Kilmeny 's birth , Master ? ''
`` I know that her mother was the innocent victim of a very sad mistake , Miss Gordon .
I admit no real stain where there was no conscious wrong doing .
Though , for that matter , even if there were , it would be no fault of Kilmeny 's and would make no difference to me as far as she is concerned . ''
A sudden change swept over Janet Gordon 's face , quite marvelous in the transformation it wrought .
Her grim mouth softened and a flood of repressed tenderness glorified her cold gray eyes .
`` Well , then . ''
she said almost triumphantly , `` since neither that nor her dumbness seems to be any drawback in your eyes I do n't see why you should not have the chance you want .
Perhaps your world will say she is not good enough for you , but she is -- she is '' -- this half defiantly .
`` She is a sweet and innocent and true-hearted lassie .
She is bright and clever and she is not ill looking .
Thomas , I say let the young man have his will . ''
Thomas Gordon stood up , as if he considered the responsibility off his shoulders and the interview at an end .
`` Very well , Janet , woman , since you think it is wise .
And may God deal with him as he deals with her .
Good evening , Master .
I 'll see you again , and you are free to come and go as suits you .
But I must go to my work now .
I left my horses standing in the field . ''
`` I will go up and send Kilmeny down , '' said Janet quietly .
She lighted the lamp on the table and left the room .
A few minutes later Kilmeny came down .
Eric rose and went to meet her eagerly , but she only put out her right hand with a pretty dignity and , while she looked into his face , she did not look into his eyes .
`` You see I was right after all , Kilmeny , '' he said , smiling .
`` Your uncle and aunt have n't driven me away .
On the contrary they have been very kind to me , and they say I may see you whenever and wherever I like . ''
She smiled , and went over to the table to write on her slate .
`` But they were very angry last night , and said dreadful things to me .
I felt very frightened and unhappy .
They seemed to think I had done something terribly wrong .
Uncle Thomas said he would never trust me out of his sight again .
I could hardly believe it when Aunt Janet came up and told me you were here and that I might come down .
She looked at me very strangely as she spoke , but I could see that all the anger had gone out of her face .
She seemed pleased and yet sad .
But I am glad they have forgiven us . ''
She did not tell him how glad she was , and how unhappy she had been over the thought that she was never to see him again .
Yesterday she would have told him all frankly and fully ; but for her yesterday was a lifetime away -- a lifetime in which she had come into her heritage of womanly dignity and reserve .
The kiss which Eric had left on her lips , the words her uncle and aunt had said to her , the tears she had shed for the first time on a sleepless pillow -- all had conspired to reveal her to herself .
She did not yet dream that she loved Eric Marshall , or that he loved her .
But she was no longer the child to be made a dear comrade of .
She was , though quite unconsciously , the woman to be wooed and won , exacting , with sweet , innate pride , her dues of allegiance .
CHAPTER XIII .
A SWEETER WOMAN NE'ER DREW BREATH Thenceforward Eric Marshall was a constant visitor at the Gordon homestead .
He soon became a favourite with Thomas and Janet , especially the latter .
He liked them both , discovering under all their outward peculiarities sterling worth and fitness of character .
Thomas Gordon was surprisingly well read and could floor Eric any time in argument , once he became sufficiently warmed up to attain fluency of words .
Eric hardly recognized him the first time he saw him thus animated .
His bent form straightened , his sunken eyes flashed , his face flushed , his voice rang like a trumpet , and he poured out a flood of eloquence which swept Eric 's smart , up-to-date arguments away like straws in the rush of a mountain torrent .
Eric enjoyed his own defeat enormously , but Thomas Gordon was ashamed of being thus drawn out of himself , and for a week afterwards confined his remarks to `` Yes '' and `` No , '' or , at the outside , to a brief statement that a change in the weather was brewing .
Janet never talked on matters of church and state ; such she plainly considered to be far beyond a woman 's province .
But she listened with lurking interest in her eyes while Thomas and Eric pelted on each other with facts and statistics and opinions , and on the rare occasions when Eric scored a point she permitted herself a sly little smile at her brother 's expense .
Of Neil , Eric saw but little .
The Italian boy avoided him , or if they chanced to meet passed him by with sullen , downcast eyes .
Eric did not trouble himself greatly about Neil ; but Thomas Gordon , understanding the motive which had led Neil to betray his discovery of the orchard trysts , bluntly told Kilmeny that she must not make such an equal of Neil as she had done .
`` You have been too kind to the lad , lassie , and he 's got presumptuous .
He must be taught his place .
I mistrust we have all made more of him than we should . ''
But most of the idyllic hours of Eric 's wooing were spent in the old orchard ; the garden end of it was now a wilderness of roses -- roses red as the heart of a sunset , roses pink as the early flush of dawn , roses white as the snows on mountain peaks , roses full blown , and roses in buds that were sweeter than anything on earth except Kilmeny 's face .
Their petals fell in silken heaps along the old paths or clung to the lush grasses among which Eric lay and dreamed , while Kilmeny played to him on her violin .
Eric promised himself that when she was his wife her wonderful gift for music should be cultivated to the utmost .
Her powers of expression seemed to deepen and develop every day , growing as her soul grew , taking on new colour and richness from her ripening heart .
To Eric , the days were all pages in an inspired idyl .
He had never dreamed that love could be so mighty or the world so beautiful .
He wondered if the universe were big enough to hold his joy or eternity long enough to live it out .
His whole existence was , for the time being , bounded by that orchard where he wooed his sweetheart .
All other ambitions and plans and hopes were set aside in the pursuit of this one aim , the attainment of which would enhance all others a thousand-fold , the loss of which would rob all others of their reason for existence .
His own world seemed very far away and the things of that world forgotten .
His father , on hearing that he had taken the Lindsay school for a year , had written him a testy , amazed letter , asking him if he were demented .
`` Or is there a girl in the case ? ''
he wrote .
`` There must be , to tie you down to a place like Lindsay for a year .
Take care , master Eric ; you 've been too sensible all your life .
A man is bound to make a fool of himself at least once , and when you did n't get through with that in your teens it may be attacking you now . ''
David also wrote , expostulating more gravely ; but he did not express the suspicions Eric knew he must entertain .
`` Good old David !
He is quaking with fear that I am up to something he ca n't approve of , but he wo n't say a word by way of attempting to force my confidence . ''
It could not long remain a secret in Lindsay that `` the Master '' was going to the Gordon place on courting thoughts intent .
Mrs. Williamson kept her own and Eric 's counsel ; the Gordons said nothing ; but the secret leaked out and great was the surprise and gossip and wonder .
One or two incautious people ventured to express their opinion of the Master 's wisdom to the Master himself ; but they never repeated the experiment .
Curiosity was rife .
A hundred stories were circulated about Kilmeny , all greatly exaggerated in the circulation .
Wise heads were shaken and the majority opined that it was a great pity .
The Master was a likely young fellow ; he could have his pick of almost anybody , you might think ; it was too bad that he should go and take up with that queer , dumb niece of the Gordons who had been brought up in such a heathenish way .
But then you never could guess what way a man 's fancy would jump when he set out to pick him a wife .
They guessed Neil Gordon did n't like it much .
He seemed to have got dreadful moody and sulky of late and would n't sing in the choir any more .
Thus the buzz of comment and gossip ran .
To those two in the old orchard it mattered not a whit .
Kilmeny knew nothing of gossip .
To her , Lindsay was as much of an unknown world as the city of Eric 's home .
Her thoughts strayed far and wide in the realm of her fancy , but they never wandered out to the little realities that hedged her strange life around .
In that life she had blossomed out , a fair , unique thing .
There were times when Eric almost regretted that one day he must take her out of her white solitude to a world that , in the last analysis , was only Lindsay on a larger scale , with just the same pettiness of thought and feeling and opinion at the bottom of it .
He wished he might keep her to himself for ever , in that old , spruce-hidden orchard where the roses fell .
One day he indulged himself in the fulfillment of the whim he had formed when Kilmeny had told him she thought herself ugly .
He went to Janet and asked her permission to bring a mirror to the house that he might have the privilege of being the first to reveal Kilmeny to herself exteriorly .
Janet was somewhat dubious at first .
`` There has n't been such a thing in the house for sixteen years , Master .
There never was but three -- one in the spare room , and a little one in the kitchen , and Margaret 's own .
She broke them all the day it first struck her that Kilmeny was going to be bonny .
I might have got one after she died maybe .
But I did n't think of it ; and there 's no need of lasses to be always prinking at their looking glasses . ''
But Eric pleaded and argued skilfully , and finally Janet said , `` Well , well , have your own way .
You 'd have it anyway I think , lad .
You are one of those men who always get their own way .
But that is different from the men who TAKE their own way -- and that 's a mercy , '' she added under her breath .
Eric went to town the next Saturday and picked out a mirror that pleased him .
He had it shipped to Radnor and Thomas Gordon brought it home , not knowing what it was , for Janet had thought it just as well he should not know .
`` It 's a present the Master is making Kilmeny , '' she told him .
She sent Kilmeny off to the orchard after tea , and Eric slipped around to the house by way of the main road and lane .
He and Janet together unpacked the mirror and hung it on the parlour wall .
`` I never saw such a big one , Master , '' said Janet rather doubtfully , as if , after all , she distrusted its gleaming , pearly depth and richly ornamented frame .
`` I hope it wo n't make her vain .
She is very bonny , but it may not do her any good to know it . ''
`` It wo n't harm her , '' said Eric confidently .
`` When a belief in her ugliness has n't spoiled a girl a belief in her beauty wo n't . ''
But Janet did not understand epigrams .
She carefully removed a little dust from the polished surface , and frowned meditatively at the by no means beautiful reflection she saw therein .
`` I can not think what made Kilmeny suppose she was ugly , Master . ''
`` Her mother told her she was , '' said Eric , rather bitterly .
`` Ah ! ''
Janet shot a quick glance at the picture of her sister .
`` Was that it ?
Margaret was a strange woman , Master .
I suppose she thought her own beauty had been a snare to her .
She WAS bonny .
That picture does n't do her justice .
I never liked it .
It was taken before she was -- before she met Ronald Fraser .
We none of us thought it very like her at the time .
But , Master , three years later it was like her -- oh , it was like her then !
That very look came in her face . ''
`` Kilmeny does n't resemble her mother , '' remarked Eric , glancing at the picture with the same feeling of mingled fascination and distaste with which he always regarded it .
`` Does she look like her father ? ''
`` No , not a great deal , though some of her ways are very like his .
She looks like her grandmother -- Margaret 's mother , Master .
Her name was Kilmeny too , and she was a handsome , sweet woman .
I was very fond of my stepmother , Master .
When she died she gave her baby to me , and asked me to be a mother to it .
Ah well , I tried ; but I could n't fence the sorrow out of Margaret 's life , and it sometimes comes to my mind that maybe I 'll not be able to fence it out of Kilmeny 's either . ''
`` That will be my task , '' said Eric .
`` You 'll do your best , I do not doubt .
But maybe it will be through you that sorrow will come to her after all . ''
`` Not through any fault of mine , Aunt Janet . ''
`` No , no , I 'm not saying it will be your fault .
But my heart misgives me at times .
Oh , I dare say I am only a foolish old woman , Master .
Go your ways and bring your lass here to look at your plaything when you like .
I 'll not make or meddle with it . ''
Janet betook herself to the kitchen and Eric went to look for Kilmeny .
She was not in the orchard and it was not until he had searched for some time that he found her .
She was standing under a beech tree in a field beyond the orchard , leaning on the longer fence , with her hands clasped against her cheek .
In them she held a white Mary-lily from the orchard .
She did not run to meet him while he was crossing the pasture , as she would once have done .
She waited motionless until he was close to her .
Eric began , half laughingly , half tenderly , to quote some lines from her namesake ballad : '' ` Kilmeny , Kilmeny , where have you been ?
Long hae we sought baith holt and den , -- By linn , by ford , and greenwood tree !
Yet you are halesome and fair to see .
Where got you that joup o ' the lily sheen ?
That bonny snood o ' the birk sae green , And those roses , the fairest that ever was seen ?
Kilmeny , Kilmeny , where have you been ? '
`` Only it 's a lily and not a rose you are carrying .
I might go on and quote the next couplet too -- '' ` Kilmeny looked up with a lovely grace , But there was nae smile on Kilmeny 's face . '
`` Why are you looking so sober ? ''
Kilmeny did not have her slate with her and could not answer ; but Eric guessed from something in her eyes that she was bitterly contrasting the beauty of the ballad 's heroine with her own supposed ugliness .
`` Come down to the house , Kilmeny .
I have something there to show you -- something lovelier than you have ever seen before , '' he said , with boyish pleasure shining in his eyes .
`` I want you to go and put on that muslin dress you wore last Sunday evening , and pin up your hair the same way you did then .
Run along -- do n't wait for me .
But you are not to go into the parlour until I come .
I want to pick some of those Mary-lilies up in the orchard . ''
When Eric returned to the house with an armful of the long stemmed , white Madonna lilies that bloomed in the orchard Kilmeny was just coming down the steep , narrow staircase with its striped carpeting of homespun drugget .
Her marvelous loveliness was brought out into brilliant relief by the dark wood work and shadows of the dim old hall .
She wore a trailing , clinging dress of some creamy tinted fabric that had been her mother 's .
It had not been altered in any respect , for fashion held no sway at the Gordon homestead , and Kilmeny thought that the dress left nothing to be desired .
Its quaint style suited her admirably ; the neck was slightly cut away to show the round white throat , and the sleeves were long , full `` bishops , '' out of which her beautiful , slender hands slipped like flowers from their sheaths .
She had crossed her long braids at the back and pinned them about her head like a coronet ; a late white rose was fastened low down on the left side . '' '
A man had given all other bliss And all his worldly wealth for this -- To waste his whole heart in one kiss Upon her perfect lips , ' '' quoted Eric in a whisper as he watched her descend .
Aloud he said , `` Take these lilies on your arm , letting their bloom fall against your shoulder -- so .
Now , give me your hand and shut your eyes .
Do n't open them until I say you may . ''
He led her into the parlour and up to the mirror .
`` Look , '' he cried , gaily .
Kilmeny opened her eyes and looked straight into the mirror where , like a lovely picture in a golden frame , she saw herself reflected .
For a moment she was bewildered .
Then she realized what it meant .
The lilies fell from her arm to the floor and she turned pale .
With a little low , involuntary cry she put her hands over her face .
Eric pulled them boyishly away .
`` Kilmeny , do you think you are ugly now ?
This is a truer mirror than Aunt Janet 's silver sugar bowl !
Look -- look -- look !
Did you ever imagine anything fairer than yourself , dainty Kilmeny ? ''
She was blushing now , and stealing shy radiant glances at the mirror .
With a smile she took her slate and wrote naively , `` I think I am pleasant to look upon .
I can not tell you how glad I am .
It is so dreadful to believe one is ugly .
You can get used to everything else , but you never get used to that .
It hurts just the same every time you remember it .
But why did mother tell me I was ugly ?
Could she really have thought so ?
Perhaps I have become better looking since I grew up . ''
`` I think perhaps your mother had found that beauty is not always a blessing , Kilmeny , and thought it wiser not to let you know you possessed it .
Come , let us go back to the orchard now .
We must n't waste this rare evening in the house .
There is going to be a sunset that we shall remember all our lives .
The mirror will hang here .
It is yours .
Do n't look into it too often , though , or Aunt Janet will disapprove .
She is afraid it will make you vain . ''
Kilmeny gave one of her rare , musical laughs , which Eric never heard without a recurrence of the old wonder that she could laugh so when she could not speak .
She blew an airy little kiss at her mirrored face and turned from it , smiling happily .
On their way to the orchard they met Neil .
He went by them with an averted face , but Kilmeny shivered and involuntarily drew nearer to Eric .
`` I do n't understand Neil at all now , '' she wrote nervously .
`` He is not nice , as he used to be , and sometimes he will not answer when I speak to him .
And he looks so strangely at me , too .
Besides , he is surly and impertinent to Uncle and Aunt . ''
`` Do n't mind Neil , '' said Eric lightly .
`` He is probably sulky because of some things I said to him when I found he had spied on us . ''
That night before she went up stairs Kilmeny stole into the parlour for another glimpse of herself in that wonderful mirror by the light of a dim little candle she carried .
She was still lingering there dreamily when Aunt Janet 's grim face appeared in the shadows of the doorway .
`` Are you thinking about your own good looks , lassie ?
Ay , but remember that handsome is as handsome does , '' she said , with grudging admiration -- for the girl with her flushed cheeks and shining eyes was something that even dour Janet Gordon could not look upon unmoved .
Kilmeny smiled softly .
`` I 'll try to remember , '' she wrote , `` but oh , Aunt Janet , I am so glad I am not ugly .
It is not wrong to be glad of that , is it ? ''
The older woman 's face softened .
`` No , I do n't suppose it is , lassie , '' she conceded .
`` A comely face is something to be thankful for -- as none know better than those who have never possessed it .
I remember well when I was a girl -- but that is neither here nor there .
The Master thinks you are wonderful bonny , Kilmeny , '' she added , looking keenly at the girl .
Kilmeny started and a scarlet blush scorched her face .
That , and the expression that flashed into her eyes , told Janet Gordon all she wished to know .
With a stifled sigh she bade her niece good night and went away .
Kilmeny ran fleetly up the stairs to her dim little room , that looked out into the spruces , and flung herself on her bed , burying her burning face in the pillow .
Her aunt 's words had revealed to her the hidden secret of her heart .
She knew that she loved Eric Marshall -- and the knowledge brought with it a strange anguish .
For was she not dumb ?
All night she lay staring wide-eyed through the darkness till the dawn .
CHAPTER XIV .
IN HER SELFLESS MOOD Eric noticed a change in Kilmeny at their next meeting -- a change that troubled him .
She seemed aloof , abstracted , almost ill at ease .
When he proposed an excursion to the orchard he thought she was reluctant to go .
The days that followed convinced him of the change .
Something had come between them .
Kilmeny seemed as far away from him as if she had in truth , like her namesake of the ballad , sojourned for seven years in the land `` where the rain never fell and the wind never blew , '' and had come back washed clean from all the affections of earth .
Eric had a bad week of it ; but he determined to put an end to it by plain speaking .
One evening in the orchard he told her of his love .
It was an evening in August , with wheat fields ripening to their harvestry -- a soft violet night made for love , with the distant murmur of an unquiet sea on a rocky shore sounding through it .
Kilmeny was sitting on the old bench where he had first seen her .
She had been playing for him , but her music did not please her and she laid aside the violin with a little frown .
It might be that she was afraid to play -- afraid that her new emotions might escape her and reveal themselves in music .
It was difficult to prevent this , so long had she been accustomed to pour out all her feelings in harmony .
The necessity for restraint irked her and made of her bow a clumsy thing which no longer obeyed her wishes .
More than ever at that instant did she long for speech -- speech that would conceal and protect where dangerous silence might betray .
In a low voice that trembled with earnestness Eric told her that he loved her -- that he had loved her from the first time he had seen her in that old orchard .
He spoke humbly but not fearfully , for he believed that she loved him , and he had little expectation of any rebuff .
`` Kilmeny , will you be my wife ? ''
he asked finally , taking her hands in his .
Kilmeny had listened with averted face .
At first she had blushed painfully but now she had grown very pale .
When he had finished speaking and was waiting for her answer , she suddenly pulled her hands away , and , putting them over her face , burst into tears and noiseless sobs .
`` Kilmeny , dearest , have I alarmed you ?
Surely you knew before that I loved you .
Do n't you care for me ? ''
Eric said , putting his arm about her and trying to draw her to him .
But she shook her head sorrowfully , and wrote with compressed lips , `` Yes , I do love you , but I will never marry you , because I can not speak . ''
`` Oh , Kilmeny , '' said Eric smiling , for he believed his victory won , `` that does n't make any difference to me -- you know it does n't , sweetest .
If you love me that is enough . ''
But Kilmeny only shook her head again .
There was a very determined look on her pale face .
She wrote , `` No , it is not enough .
It would be doing you a great wrong to marry you when I can not speak , and I will not do it because I love you too much to do anything that would harm you .
Your world would think you had done a very foolish thing and it would be right .
I have thought it all over many times since something Aunt Janet said made me understand , and I know I am doing right .
I am sorry I did not understand sooner , before you had learned to care so much . ''
`` Kilmeny , darling , you have taken a very absurd fancy into that dear black head of yours .
Do n't you know that you will make me miserably unhappy all my life if you will not be my wife ? ''
`` No , you think so now ; and I know you will feel very badly for a time .
Then you will go away and after awhile you will forget me ; and then you will see that I was right .
I shall be very unhappy , too , but that is better than spoiling your life .
Do not plead or coax because I shall not change my mind . ''
Eric did plead and coax , however -- at first patiently and smilingly , as one might argue with a dear foolish child ; then with vehement and distracted earnestness , as he began to realize that Kilmeny meant what she said .
It was all in vain .
Kilmeny grew paler and paler , and her eyes revealed how keenly she was suffering .
She did not even try to argue with him , but only listened patiently and sadly , and shook her head .
Say what he would , entreat and implore as he might , he could not move her resolution a hairs-breadth .
Yet he did not despair ; he could not believe that she would adhere to such a resolution ; he felt sure that her love for him would eventually conquer , and he went home not unhappily after all .
He did not understand that it was the very intensity of her love which gave her the strength to resist his pleading , where a more shallow affection might have yielded .
It held her back unflinchingly from doing him what she believed to be a wrong .
CHAPTER XV .
AN OLD , UNHAPPY , FAR-OFF THING The next day Eric sought Kilmeny again and renewed his pleadings , but again in vain .
Nothing he could say , no argument which he could advance , was of any avail against her sad determination .
When he was finally compelled to realize that her resolution was not to be shaken , he went in his despair to Janet Gordon .
Janet listened to his story with concern and disappointment plainly visible on her face .
When he had finished she shook her head .
`` I 'm sorry , Master .
I ca n't tell you how sorry I am .
I had hoped for something very different .
HOPED !
I have PRAYED for it .
Thomas and I are getting old and it has weighed on my mind for years -- what was to become of Kilmeny when we would be gone .
Since you came I had hoped she would have a protector in you .
But if Kilmeny says she will not marry you I am afraid she 'll stick to it . ''
`` But she loves me , '' cried the young man , `` and if you and her uncle speak to her -- urge her -- perhaps you can influence her -- '' `` No , Master , it would n't be any use .
Oh , we will , of course , but it will not be any use .
Kilmeny is as determined as her mother when once she makes up her mind .
She has always been good and obedient for the most part , but once or twice we have found out that there is no moving her if she does resolve upon anything .
When her mother died Thomas and I wanted to take her to church .
We could not prevail on her to go .
We did not know why then , but now I suppose it was because she believed she was so very ugly .
It is because she thinks so much of you that she will not marry you .
She is afraid you would come to repent having married a dumb girl .
Maybe she is right -- maybe she is right . ''
`` I can not give her up , '' said Eric stubbornly .
`` Something must be done .
Perhaps her defect can be remedied even yet .
Have you ever thought of that ?
You have never had her examined by a doctor qualified to pronounce on her case , have you ? ''
`` No , Master , we never took her to anyone .
When we first began to fear that she was never going to talk Thomas wanted to take her to Charlottetown and have her looked to .
He thought so much of the child and he felt terrible about it .
But her mother would n't hear of it being done .
There was no use trying to argue with her .
She said that it would be no use -- that it was her sin that was visited on her child and it could never be taken away . ''
`` And did you give in meekly to a morbid whim like that ? ''
asked Eric impatiently .
`` Master , you did n't know my sister .
We HAD to give in -- nobody could hold out against her .
She was a strange woman -- and a terrible woman in many ways -- after her trouble .
We were afraid to cross her for fear she would go out of her mind . ''
`` But , could you not have taken Kilmeny to a doctor unknown to her mother ? ''
`` No , that was not possible .
Margaret never let her out of her sight , not even when she was grown up .
Besides , to tell you the whole truth , Master , we did n't think ourselves that it would be much use to try to cure Kilmeny .
It WAS a sin that made her as she is . ''
`` Aunt Janet , how can you talk such nonsense ?
Where was there any sin ?
Your sister thought herself a lawful wife .
If Ronald Fraser thought otherwise -- and there is no proof that he did -- HE committed a sin , but you surely do not believe that it was visited in this fashion on his innocent child ! ''
`` No , I am not meaning that , Master .
That was n't where Margaret did wrong ; and though I never liked Ronald Fraser over much , I must say this in his defence -- I believe he thought himself a free man when he married Margaret .
No , it 's something else -- something far worse .
It gives me a shiver whenever I think of it .
Oh , Master , the Good Book is right when it says the sins of the parents are visited on the children .
There is n't a truer word in it than that from cover to cover . ''
`` What , in heaven 's name , is the meaning of all this ? ''
exclaimed Eric .
`` Tell me what it is .
I must know the whole truth about Kilmeny .
Do not torment me . ''
`` I am going to tell you the story , Master , though it will be like opening an old wound .
No living person knows it but Thomas and me .
When you hear it you will understand why Kilmeny ca n't speak , and why it is n't likely that there can ever be anything done for her .
She does n't know the truth and you must never tell her .
It is n't a fit story for her ears , especially when it is about her mother .
Promise me that you will never tell her , no matter what may happen . ''
`` I promise .
Go on -- go on , '' said the young man feverishly .
Janet Gordon locked her hands together in her lap , like a woman who nerves herself to some hateful task .
She looked very old ; the lines on her face seemed doubly deep and harsh .
`` My sister Margaret was a very proud , high-spirited girl , Master .
But I would not have you think she was unlovable .
No , no , that would be doing a great injustice to her memory .
She had her faults as we all have ; but she was bright and merry and warm-hearted .
We all loved her .
She was the light and life of this house .
Yes , Master , before the trouble that came on her Margaret was a winsome lass , singing like a lark from morning till night .
Maybe we spoiled her a little -- maybe we gave her too much of her own way .
`` Well , Master , you have heard the story of her marriage to Ronald Fraser and what came after , so I need not go into that .
I know , or used to know Elizabeth Williamson well , and I know that whatever she told you would be the truth and nothing more or less than the truth .
`` Our father was a very proud man .
Oh , Master , if Margaret was too proud she got it from no stranger .
And her misfortune cut him to the heart .
He never spoke a word to us here for more than three days after he heard of it .
He sat in the corner there with bowed head and would not touch bite or sup .
He had not been very willing for her to marry Ronald Fraser ; and when she came home in disgrace she had not set foot over the threshold before he broke out railing at her .
Oh , I can see her there at the door this very minute , Master , pale and trembling , clinging to Thomas 's arm , her great eyes changing from sorrow and shame to wrath .
It was just at sunset and a red ray came in at the window and fell right across her breast like a stain of blood .
`` Father called her a hard name , Master .
Oh , he was too hard -- even though he was my father I must say he was too hard on her , broken-hearted as she was , and guilty of nothing more after all than a little willfulness in the matter of her marriage .
`` And father was sorry for it -- Oh , Master , the word was n't out of his mouth before he was sorry for it .
But the mischief was done .
Oh , I 'll never forget Margaret 's face , Master !
It haunts me yet in the black of the night .
It was full of anger and rebellion and defiance .
But she never answered him back .
She clenched her hands and went up to her old room without saying a word , all those mad feelings surging in her soul , and being held back from speech by her sheer , stubborn will .
And , Master , never a word did Margaret say from that day until after Kilmeny was born -- not one word , Master .
Nothing we could do for her softened her .
And we were kind to her , Master , and gentle with her , and never reproached her by so much as a look .
But she would not speak to anyone .
She just sat in her room most of the time and stared at the wall with such awful eyes .
Father implored her to speak and forgive him , but she never gave any sign that she heard him .
`` I have n't come to the worst yet , Master .
Father sickened and took to his bed .
Margaret would not go in to see him .
Then one night Thomas and I were watching by him ; it was about eleven o'clock .
All at once he said , '' ` Janet , go up and tell the lass ' -- he always called Margaret that -- it was a kind of pet name he had for her -- ` that I 'm deein ' and ask her to come down and speak to me afore I 'm gone . '
`` Master , I went .
Margaret was sitting in her room all alone in the cold and dark , staring at the wall .
I told her what our father had said .
She never let on she heard me .
I pleaded and wept , Master .
I did what I had never done to any human creature -- I kneeled to her and begged her , as she hoped for mercy herself , to come down and see our dying father .
Master , she would n't !
She never moved or looked at me .
I had to get up and go downstairs and tell that old man she would not come . ''
Janet Gordon lifted her hands and struck them together in her agony of remembrance .
`` When I told father he only said , oh , so gently , '' ` Poor lass , I was too hard on her .
She isna to blame .
But I canna go to meet her mother till our little lass has forgie 'n me for the name I called her .
Thomas , help me up .
Since she winna come to me I must e ` en go to her . '
`` There was no crossing him -- we saw that .
He got up from his deathbed and Thomas helped him out into the hall and up the stair .
I walked behind with the candle .
Oh , Master , I 'll never forget it -- the awful shadows and the storm wind wailing outside , and father 's gasping breath .
But we got him to Margaret 's room and he stood before her , trembling , with his white hairs falling about his sunken face .
And he prayed Margaret to forgive him -- to forgive him and speak just one word to him before he went to meet her mother .
Master '' -- Janet 's voice rose almost to a shriek -- `` she would not -- she would not !
And yet she WANTED to speak -- afterwards she confessed to me that she wanted to speak .
But her stubbornness would n't let her .
It was like some evil power that had gripped hold of her and would n't let go .
Father might as well have pleaded with a graven image .
Oh , it was hard and dreadful !
She saw her father die and she never spoke the word he prayed for to him .
THAT was her sin , Master , -- and for that sin the curse fell on her unborn child .
When father understood that she would not speak he closed his eyes and was like to have fallen if Thomas had not caught him . ''
` Oh , lass , you 're a hard woman , ' was all he said .
And they were his last words .
Thomas and I carried him back to his room , but the breath was gone from him before we ever got him there .
`` Well , Master , Kilmeny was born a month afterwards , and when Margaret felt her baby at her breast the evil thing that had held her soul in its bondage lost its power .
She spoke and wept and was herself again .
Oh , how she wept !
She implored us to forgive her and we did freely and fully .
But the one against whom she had sinned most grievously was gone , and no word of forgiveness could come to her from the grave .
My poor sister never knew peace of conscience again , Master .
But she was gentle and kind and humble until -- until she began to fear that Kilmeny was never going to speak .
We thought then that she would go out of her mind .
Indeed , Master , she never was quite right again .
`` But that is the story and it 's a thankful woman I am that the telling of it is done .
Kilmeny ca n't speak because her mother would n't . ''
Eric had listened with a gray horror on his face to the gruesome tale .
The black tragedy of it appalled him -- the tragedy of that merciless law , the most cruel and mysterious thing in God 's universe , which ordains that the sin of the guilty shall be visited on the innocent .
Fight against it as he would , the miserable conviction stole into his heart that Kilmeny 's case was indeed beyond the reach of any human skill .
`` It is a dreadful tale , '' he said moodily , getting up and walking restlessly to and fro in the dim spruce-shadowed old kitchen where they were .
`` And if it is true that her mother 's willful silence caused Kilmeny 's dumbness , I fear , as you say , that we can not help her .
But you may be mistaken .
It may have been nothing more than a strange coincidence .
Possibly something may be done for her .
At all events , we must try .
I have a friend in Queenslea who is a physician .
His name is David Baker , and he is a very skilful specialist in regard to the throat and voice .
I shall have him come here and see Kilmeny . ''
`` Have your way , '' assented Janet in the hopeless tone which she might have used in giving him permission to attempt any impossible thing .
`` It will be necessary to tell Dr. Baker why Kilmeny can not speak -- or why you think she can not . ''
Janet 's face twitched .
`` Must that be , Master ?
Oh , it 's a bitter tale to tell a stranger . ''
`` Do n't be afraid .
I shall tell him nothing that is not strictly necessary to his proper understanding of the case .
It will be quite enough to say that Kilmeny may be dumb because for several months before her birth her mother 's mind was in a very morbid condition , and she preserved a stubborn and unbroken silence because of a certain bitter personal resentment . ''
`` Well , do as you think best , Master . ''
Janet plainly had no faith in the possibility of anything being done for Kilmeny .
But a rosy glow of hope flashed over Kilmeny 's face when Eric told her what he meant to do .
`` Oh , do you think he can make me speak ? ''
she wrote eagerly .
`` I do n't know , Kilmeny .
I hope that he can , and I know he will do all that mortal skill can do .
If he can remove your defect will you promise to marry me , dearest ? ''
She nodded .
The grave little motion had the solemnity of a sacred promise .
`` Yes , '' she wrote , `` when I can speak like other women I will marry you . ''
CHAPTER XVI .
DAVID BAKER 'S OPINION The next week David Baker came to Lindsay .
He arrived in the afternoon when Eric was in school .
When the latter came home he found that David had , in the space of an hour , captured Mrs. Williamson 's heart , wormed himself into the good graces of Timothy , and become hail-fellow-well-met with old Robert .
But he looked curiously at Eric when the two young men found themselves alone in the upstairs room .
`` Now , Eric , I want to know what all this is about .
What scrape have you got into ?
You write me a letter , entreating me in the name of friendship to come to you at once .
Accordingly I come post haste .
You seem to be in excellent health yourself .
Explain why you have inveigled me hither . ''
`` I want you to do me a service which only you can do , David , '' said Eric quietly .
`` I did n't care to go into the details by letter .
I have met in Lindsay a young girl whom I have learned to love .
I have asked her to marry me , but , although she cares for me , she refuses to do so because she is dumb .
I wish you to examine her and find out the cause of her defect , and if it can be cured .
She can hear perfectly and all her other faculties are entirely normal .
In order that you may better understand the case I must tell you the main facts of her history . ''
This Eric proceeded to do .
David Baker listened with grave attention , his eyes fastened on his friend 's face .
He did not betray the surprise and dismay he felt at learning that Eric had fallen in love with a dumb girl of doubtful antecedents ; and the strange case enlisted his professional interest .
When he had heard the whole story he thrust his hands into his pockets and strode up and down the room several times in silence .
Finally he halted before Eric .
`` So you have done what I foreboded all along you would do -- left your common sense behind you when you went courting . ''
`` If I did , '' said Eric quietly , `` I took with me something better and nobler than common sense . ''
David shrugged his shoulders .
`` You 'll have hard work to convince me of that , Eric . ''
`` No , it will not be difficult at all .
I have one argument that will convince you speedily -- and that is Kilmeny Gordon herself .
But we will not discuss the matter of my wisdom or lack of it just now .
What I want to know is this -- what do you think of the case as I have stated it to you ? ''
David frowned thoughtfully .
`` I hardly know what to think .
It is very curious and unusual , but it is not totally unprecedented .
There have been cases on record where pre-natal influences have produced a like result .
I can not just now remember whether any were ever cured .
Well , I 'll see if anything can be done for this girl .
I can not express any further opinion until I have examined her . ''
The next morning Eric took David up to the Gordon homestead .
As they approached the old orchard a strain of music came floating through the resinous morning arcades of the spruce wood -- a wild , sorrowful , appealing cry , full of indescribable pathos , yet marvelously sweet .
`` What is that ? ''
exclaimed David , starting .
`` That is Kilmeny playing on her violin , '' answered Eric .
`` She has great talent in that respect and improvises wonderful melodies . ''
When they reached the orchard Kilmeny rose from the old bench to meet them , her lovely luminous eyes distended , her face flushed with the excitement of mingled hope and fear .
`` Oh , ye gods ! ''
muttered David helplessly .
He could not hide his amazement and Eric smiled to see it .
The latter had not failed to perceive that his friend had until now considered him as little better than a lunatic .
`` Kilmeny , this is my friend , Dr. Baker , '' he said .
Kilmeny held out her hand with a smile .
Her beauty , as she stood there in the fresh morning sunshine beside a clump of her sister lilies , was something to take away a man 's breath .
David , who was by no means lacking in confidence and generally had a ready tongue where women were concerned , found himself as mute and awkward as a school boy , as he bowed over her hand .
But Kilmeny was charmingly at ease .
There was not a trace of embarrassment in her manner , though there was a pretty shyness .
Eric smiled as he recalled HIS first meeting with her .
He suddenly realized how far Kilmeny had come since then and how much she had developed .
With a little gesture of invitation Kilmeny led the way through the orchard to the wild cherry lane , and the two men followed .
`` Eric , she is simply unutterable ! ''
said David in an undertone .
`` Last night , to tell you the truth , I had a rather poor opinion of your sanity .
But now I am consumed with a fierce envy .
She is the loveliest creature I ever saw . ''
Eric introduced David to the Gordons and then hurried away to his school .
On his way down the Gordon lane he met Neil and was half startled by the glare of hatred in the Italian boy 's eyes .
Pity succeeded the momentary alarm .
Neil 's face had grown thin and haggard ; his eyes were sunken and feverishly bright ; he looked years older than on the day when Eric had first seen him in the brook hollow .
Prompted by sudden compassionate impulse Eric stopped and held out his hand .
`` Neil , ca n't we be friends ? ''
he said .
`` I am sorry if I have been the cause of inflicting pain on you . ''
`` Friends !
Never ! ''
said Neil passionately .
`` You have taken Kilmeny from me .
I shall hate you always .
And I 'll be even with you yet . ''
He strode fiercely up the lane , and Eric , with a shrug of his shoulders , went on his way , dismissing the meeting from his mind .
The day seemed interminably long to him .
David had not returned when he went home to dinner ; but when he went to his room in the evening he found his friend there , staring out of the window .
`` Well , '' he said , impatiently , as David wheeled around but still kept silence , `` What have you to say to me ?
Do n't keep me in suspense any longer , David .
I have endured all I can .
To-day has seemed like a thousand years .
Have you discovered what is the matter with Kilmeny ? ''
`` There is nothing the matter with her , '' answered David slowly , flinging himself into a chair by the window .
`` What do you mean ? ''
`` Just exactly what I say .
Her vocal organs are all perfect .
As far as they are concerned , there is absolutely no reason why she should not speak . ''
`` Then why ca n't she speak ?
Do you think -- do you think -- '' `` I think that I can not express my conclusion in any better words than Janet Gordon used when she said that Kilmeny can not speak because her mother would n't .
That is all there is to it .
The trouble is psychological , not physical .
Medical skill is helpless before it .
There are greater men than I in my profession ; but it is my honest belief , Eric , that if you were to consult them they would tell you just what I have told you , neither more nor less . ''
`` Then there is no hope , '' said Eric in a tone of despair .
`` You can do nothing for her ? ''
David took from the back of his chair a crochet antimacassar with a lion rampant in the center and spread it over his knee .
`` I can do nothing for her , '' he said , scowling at that work of art .
`` I do not believe any living man can do anything for her .
But I do not say -- exactly -- that there is no hope . ''
`` Come , David , I am in no mood for guessing riddles .
Speak plainly , man , and do n't torment me . ''
David frowned dubiously and poked his finger through the hole which represented the eye of the king of beasts .
`` I do n't know that I can make it plain to you .
It is n't very plain to myself .
And it is only a vague theory of mine , of course .
I can not substantiate it by any facts .
In short , Eric , I think it is possible that Kilmeny may speak sometime -- if she ever wants it badly enough . ''
`` Wants to !
Why , man , she wants to as badly as it is possible for any one to want anything .
She loves me with all her heart and she wo n't marry me because she ca n't speak .
Do n't you suppose that a girl under such circumstances would ` want ' to speak as much as any one could ? ''
`` Yes , but I do not mean that sort of wanting , no matter how strong the wish may be .
What I do mean is -- a sudden , vehement , passionate inrush of desire , physical , psychical , mental , all in one , mighty enough to rend asunder the invisible fetters that hold her speech in bondage .
If any occasion should arise to evoke such a desire I believe that Kilmeny would speak -- and having once spoken would thenceforth be normal in that respect -- ay , if she spoke but the one word . ''
`` All this sounds like great nonsense to me , '' said Eric restlessly .
`` I suppose you have an idea what you are talking about , but I have n't .
And , in any case , it practically means that there is no hope for her -- or me .
Even if your theory is correct it is not likely such an occasion as you speak of will ever arise .
And Kilmeny will never marry me . ''
`` Do n't give up so easily , old fellow .
There HAVE been cases on record where women have changed their minds . ''
`` Not women like Kilmeny , '' said Eric miserably .
`` I tell you she has all her mother 's unfaltering will and tenacity of purpose , although she is free from any taint of pride or selfishness .
I thank you for your sympathy and interest , David .
You have done all you could -- but , heavens , what it would have meant to me if you could have helped her ! ''
With a groan Eric flung himself on a chair and buried his face in his hands .
It was a moment which held for him all the bitterness of death .
He had thought that he was prepared for disappointment ; he had not known how strong his hope had really been until that hope was utterly taken from him .
David , with a sigh , returned the crochet antimacassar carefully to its place on the chair back .
`` Eric , last night , to be honest , I thought that , if I found I could not help this girl , it would be the best thing that could happen , as far as you were concerned .
But since I have seen her -- well , I would give my right hand if I could do anything for her .
She is the wife for you , if we could make her speak ; yes , and by the memory of your mother '' -- David brought his fist down on the window sill with a force that shook the casement , -- `` she is the wife for you , speech or no speech , if we could only convince her of it . ''
`` She can not be convinced of that .
No , David , I have lost her .
Did you tell her what you have told me ? ''
`` I told her I could not help her .
I did not say anything to her of my theory -- that would have done no good . ''
`` How did she take it ? ''
`` Very bravely and quietly -- ` like a winsome lady ' .
But the look in her eyes -- Eric , I felt as if I had murdered something .
She bade me good-bye with a pitiful smile and went upstairs .
I did not see her again , although I stayed to dinner as her uncle 's request .
Those old Gordons are a queer pair .
I liked them , though .
They are strong and staunch -- good friends , bitter enemies .
They were sorry that I could not help Kilmeny , but I saw plainly that old Thomas Gordon thought that I had been meddling with predestination in attempting it . ''
Eric smiled mechanically .
`` I must go up and see Kilmeny .
You 'll excuse me , wo n't you , David ?
My books are there -- help yourself . ''
But when Eric reached the Gordon house he saw only old Janet , who told him that Kilmeny was in her room and refused to see him .
`` She thought you would come up , and she left this with me to give you , Master . ''
Janet handed him a little note .
It was very brief and blotted with tears .
`` Do not come any more , Eric , '' it ran .
`` I must not see you , because it would only make it harder for us both .
You must go away and forget me .
You will be thankful for this some day .
I shall always love and pray for you . ''
`` KILMENY . ''
`` I MUST see her , '' said Eric desperately .
`` Aunt Janet , be my friend .
Tell her she must see me for a little while at least . ''
Janet shook her head but went upstairs .
She soon returned .
`` She says she can not come down .
You know she means it , Master , and it is of no use to coax her .
And I must say I think she is right .
Since she will not marry you it is better for her not to see you . ''
Eric was compelled to go home with no better comfort than this .
In the morning , as it was Sunday , he drove David Baker to the station .
He had not slept and he looked so miserable and reckless that David felt anxious about him .
David would have stayed in Lindsay for a few days , but a certain critical case in Queenslea demanded his speedy return .
He shook hands with Eric on the station platform .
`` Eric , give up that school and come home at once .
You can do no good in Lindsay now , and you 'll only eat your heart out here . ''
`` I must see Kilmeny once more before I leave , '' was all Eric 's answer .
That afternoon he went again to the Gordon homestead .
But the result was the same ; Kilmeny refused to see him , and Thomas Gordon said gravely , `` Master , you know I like you and I am sorry Kilmeny thinks as she does , though maybe she is right .
I would be glad to see you often for your own sake and I 'll miss you much ; but as things are I tell you plainly you 'd better not come here any more .
It will do no good , and the sooner you and she get over thinking about each other the better for you both .
Go now , lad , and God bless you . ''
`` Do you know what it is you are asking of me ? ''
said Eric hoarsely .
`` I know I am asking a hard thing for your own good , Master .
It is not as if Kilmeny would ever change her mind .
We have had some experience with a woman 's will ere this .
Tush , Janet , woman , do n't be weeping .
You women are foolish creatures .
Do you think tears can wash such things away ?
No , they can not blot out sin , or the consequences of sin .
It 's awful how one sin can spread out and broaden , till it eats into innocent lives , sometimes long after the sinner has gone to his own accounting .
Master , if you take my advice , you 'll give up the Lindsay school and go back to your own world as soon as may be . ''
CHAPTER XVII .
A BROKEN FETTER Eric went home with a white , haggard face .
He had never thought it was possible for a man to suffer as he suffered then .
What was he to do ?
It seemed impossible to go on with life -- there was NO life apart from Kilmeny .
Anguish wrung his soul until his strength went from him and youth and hope turned to gall and bitterness in his heart .
He never afterwards could tell how he lived through the following Sunday or how he taught school as usual on Monday .
He found out how much a man may suffer and yet go on living and working .
His body seemed to him an automaton that moved and spoke mechanically , while his tortured spirit , pent-up within , endured pain that left its impress on him for ever .
Out of that fiery furnace of agony Eric Marshall was to go forth a man who had put boyhood behind him for ever and looked out on life with eyes that saw into it and beyond .
On Tuesday afternoon there was a funeral in the district and , according to custom , the school was closed .
Eric went again to the old orchard .
He had no expectation of seeing Kilmeny there , for he thought she would avoid the spot lest she might meet him .
But he could not keep away from it , although the thought of it was an added torment , and he vibrated between a wild wish that he might never see it again , and a sick wonder how he could possibly go away and leave it -- that strange old orchard where he had met and wooed his sweetheart , watching her develop and blossom under his eyes , like some rare flower , until in the space of three short months she had passed from exquisite childhood into still more exquisite womanhood .
As he crossed the pasture field before the spruce wood he came upon Neil Gordon , building a longer fence .
Neil did not look up as Eric passed , but sullenly went on driving poles .
Before this Eric had pitied Neil ; now he was conscious of feeling sympathy with him .
Had Neil suffered as he was suffering ?
Eric had entered into a new fellowship whereof the passport was pain .
The orchard was very silent and dreamy in the thick , deep tinted sunshine of the September afternoon , a sunshine which seemed to possess the power of extracting the very essence of all the odours which summer has stored up in wood and field .
There were few flowers now ; most of the lilies , which had queened it so bravely along the central path a few days before , were withered .
The grass had become ragged and sere and unkempt .
But in the corners the torches of the goldenrod were kindling and a few misty purple asters nodded here and there .
The orchard kept its own strange attractiveness , as some women with youth long passed still preserve an atmosphere of remembered beauty and innate , indestructible charm .
Eric walked drearily and carelessly about it , and finally sat down on a half fallen fence panel in the shadow of the overhanging spruce boughs .
There he gave himself up to a reverie , poignant and bitter sweet , in which he lived over again everything that had passed in the orchard since his first meeting there with Kilmeny .
So deep was his abstraction that he was conscious of nothing around him .
He did not hear stealthy footsteps behind him in the dim spruce wood .
He did not even see Kilmeny as she came slowly around the curve of the wild cherry lane .
Kilmeny had sought the old orchard for the healing of her heartbreak , if healing were possible for her .
She had no fear of encountering Eric there at that time of day , for she did not know that it was the district custom to close the school for a funeral .
She would never have gone to it in the evening , but she longed for it continually ; it , and her memories , were all that was left her now .
Years seemed to have passed over the girl in those few days .
She had drunk of pain and broken bread with sorrow .
Her face was pale and strained , with bluish , transparent shadows under her large wistful eyes , out of which the dream and laughter of girlhood had gone , but into which had come the potent charm of grief and patience .
Thomas Gordon had shaken his head bodingly when he had looked at her that morning at the breakfast table .
`` She wo n't stand it , '' he thought .
`` She is n't long for this world .
Maybe it is all for the best , poor lass .
But I wish that young Master had never set foot in the Connors orchard , or in this house .
Margaret , Margaret , it 's hard that your child should have to be paying the reckoning of a sin that was sinned before her birth . ''
Kilmeny walked through the lane slowly and absently like a woman in a dream .
When she came to the gap in the fence where the lane ran into the orchard she lifted her wan , drooping face and saw Eric , sitting in the shadow of the wood at the other side of the orchard with his bowed head in his hands .
She stopped quickly and the blood rushed wildly over her face .
The next moment it ebbed , leaving her white as marble .
Horror filled her eyes , -- blank , deadly horror , as the livid shadow of a cloud might fill two blue pools .
Behind Eric Neil Gordon was standing tense , crouched , murderous .
Even at that distance Kilmeny saw the look on his face , saw what he held in his hand , and realized in one agonized flash of comprehension what it meant .
All this photographed itself in her brain in an instant .
She knew that by the time she could run across the orchard to warn Eric by a touch it would be too late .
Yet she must warn him -- she MUST -- she MUST !
A mighty surge of desire seemed to rise up within her and overwhelm her like a wave of the sea , -- a surge that swept everything before it in an irresistible flood .
As Neil Gordon swiftly and vindictively , with the face of a demon , lifted the axe he held in his hand , Kilmeny sprang forward through the gap .
`` ERIC , ERIC , LOOK BEHIND YOU -- LOOK BEHIND YOU ! ''
Eric started up , confused , bewildered , as the voice came shrieking across the orchard .
He did not in the least realize that it was Kilmeny who had called to him , but he instinctively obeyed the command .
He wheeled around and saw Neil Gordon , who was looking , not at him , but past him at Kilmeny .
The Italian boy 's face was ashen and his eyes were filled with terror and incredulity , as if he had been checked in his murderous purpose by some supernatural interposition .
The axe , lying at his feet where he had dropped it in his unutterable consternation on hearing Kilmeny 's cry told the whole tale .
But before Eric could utter a word Neil turned , with a cry more like that of an animal than a human being , and fled like a hunted creature into the shadow of the spruce wood .
A moment later Kilmeny , her lovely face dewed with tears and sunned over with smiles , flung herself on Eric 's breast .
`` Oh , Eric , I can speak , -- I can speak !
Oh , it is so wonderful !
Eric , I love you -- I love you ! ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
NEIL GORDON SOLVES HIS OWN PROBLEM `` It is a miracle ! ''
said Thomas Gordon in an awed tone .
It was the first time he had spoken since Eric and Kilmeny had rushed in , hand in hand , like two children intoxicated with joy and wonder , and gasped out their story together to him and Janet .
`` Oh , no , it is very wonderful , but it is not a miracle , '' said Eric .
`` David told me it might happen .
I had no hope that it would .
He could explain it all to you if he were here . ''
Thomas Gordon shook his head .
`` I doubt if he could , Master -- he , or any one else .
It is near enough to a miracle for me .
Let us thank God reverently and humbly that he has seen fit to remove his curse from the innocent .
Your doctors may explain it as they like , lad , but I 'm thinking they wo n't get much nearer to it than that .
It is awesome , that is what it is .
Janet , woman , I feel as if I were in a dream .
Can Kilmeny really speak ? ''
`` Indeed I can , Uncle , '' said Kilmeny , with a rapturous glance at Eric .
`` Oh , I do n't know how it came to me -- I felt that I MUST speak -- and I did .
And it is so easy now -- it seems to me as if I could always have done it . ''
She spoke naturally and easily .
The only difficulty which she seemed to experience was in the proper modulation of her voice .
Occasionally she pitched it too high -- again , too low .
But it was evident that she would soon acquire perfect control of it .
It was a beautiful voice -- very clear and soft and musical .
`` Oh , I am so glad that the first word I said was your name , dearest , '' she murmured to Eric .
`` What about Neil ? ''
asked Thomas Gordon gravely , rousing himself with an effort from his abstraction of wonder .
`` What are we to do with him when he returns ?
In one way this is a sad business . ''
Eric had almost forgotten about Neil in his overwhelming amazement and joy .
The realization of his escape from sudden and violent death had not yet had any opportunity to take possession of his thoughts .
`` We must forgive him , Mr. Gordon .
I know how I should feel towards a man who took Kilmeny from me .
It was an evil impulse to which he gave way in his suffering -- and think of the good which has resulted from it . ''
`` That is true , Master , but it does not alter the terrible fact that the boy had murder in his heart , -- that he would have killed you .
An over-ruling Providence has saved him from the actual commission of the crime and brought good out of evil ; but he is guilty in thought and purpose .
And we have cared for him and instructed him as our own -- with all his faults we have loved him !
It is a hard thing , and I do not see what we are to do .
We can not act as if nothing had happened .
We can never trust him again . ''
But Neil Gordon solved the problem himself .
When Eric returned that night he found old Robert Williamson in the pantry regaling himself with a lunch of bread and cheese after a trip to the station .
Timothy sat on the dresser in black velvet state and gravely addressed himself to the disposal of various tid-bits that came his way .
`` Good night , Master .
Glad to see you 're looking more like yourself .
I told the wife it was only a lover 's quarrel most like .
She 's been worrying about you ; but she did n't like to ask you what was the trouble .
She ai n't one of them unfortunate folks who ca n't be happy athout they 're everlasting poking their noses into other people 's business .
But what kind of a rumpus was kicked up at the Gordon place , to-night , Master ? ''
Eric looked amazed .
What could Robert Williamson have heard so soon ?
`` What do you mean ? ''
he asked .
`` Why , us folks at the station knew there must have been a to-do of some kind when Neil Gordon went off on the harvest excursion the way he did . ''
`` Neil gone !
On the harvest excursion ! ''
exclaimed Eric .
`` Yes , sir .
You know this was the night the excursion train left .
They cross on the boat to-night -- special trip .
There was a dozen or so fellows from hereabouts went .
We was all standing around chatting when Lincoln Frame drove up full speed and Neil jumped out of his rig .
Just bolted into the office , got his ticket and out again , and on to the train without a word to any one , and as black looking as the Old Scratch himself .
We was all too surprised to speak till he was gone .
Lincoln could n't give us much information .
He said Neil had rushed up to their place about dark , looking as if the constable was after him , and offered to sell that black filly of his to Lincoln for sixty dollars if Lincoln would drive him to the station in time to catch the excursion train .
The filly was Neil 's own , and Lincoln had been wanting to buy her but Neil would never hear to it afore .
Lincoln jumped at the chance .
Neil had brought the filly with him , and Lincoln hitched right up and took him to the station .
Neil had n't no luggage of any kind and would n't open his mouth the whole way up , Lincoln says .
We concluded him and old Thomas must have had a row .
D'ye know anything about it ?
Or was you so wrapped up in sweethearting that you did n't hear or see nothing else ? ''
Eric reflected rapidly .
He was greatly relieved to find that Neil had gone .
He would never return and this was best for all concerned .
Old Robert must be told a part of the truth at least , since it would soon become known that Kilmeny could speak .
`` There was some trouble at the Gordon place to-night , Mr. Williamson , '' he said quietly .
`` Neil Gordon behaved rather badly and frightened Kilmeny terribly , -- so terribly that a very surprising thing has happened .
She has found herself able to speak , and can speak perfectly . ''
Old Robert laid down the piece of cheese he was conveying to his mouth on the point of a knife and stared at Eric in blank amazement .
`` God bless my soul , Master , what an extraordinary thing ! ''
he ejaculated .
`` Are you in earnest ?
Or are you trying to see how much of a fool you can make of the old man ? ''
`` No , Mr. Williamson , I assure you it is no more than the simple truth .
Dr. Baker told me that a shock might cure her , -- and it has .
As for Neil , he has gone , no doubt for good , and I think it well that he has . ''
Not caring to discuss the matter further , Eric left the kitchen .
But as he mounted the stairs to his room he heard old Robert muttering , like a man in hopeless bewilderment , `` Well , I never heard anything like this in all my born days -- never -- never .
Timothy , did YOU ever hear the like ?
Them Gordons are an unaccountable lot and no mistake .
They could n't act like other people if they tried .
I must wake mother up and tell her about this , or I 'll never be able to sleep . ''
CHAPTER XIX .
VICTOR FROM VANQUISHED ISSUES Now that everything was settled Eric wished to give up teaching and go back to his own place .
True , he had `` signed papers '' to teach the school for a year ; but he knew that the trustees would let him off if he procured a suitable substitute .
He resolved to teach until the fall vacation , which came in October , and then go .
Kilmeny had promised that their marriage should take place in the following spring .
Eric had pleaded for an earlier date , but Kilmeny was sweetly resolute , and Thomas and Janet agreed with her .
`` There are so many things that I must learn yet before I shall be ready to be married , '' Kilmeny had said .
`` And I want to get accustomed to seeing people .
I feel a little frightened yet whenever I see any one I do n't know , although I do n't think I show it .
I am going to church with Uncle and Aunt after this , and to the Missionary Society meetings .
And Uncle Thomas says that he will send me to a boarding school in town this winter if you think it advisable . ''
Eric vetoed this promptly .
The idea of Kilmeny in a boarding school was something that could not be thought about without laughter .
`` I ca n't see why she ca n't learn all she needs to learn after she is married to me , just as well as before , '' he grumbled to her uncle and aunt .
`` But we want to keep her with us for another winter yet , '' explained Thomas Gordon patiently .
`` We are going to miss her terrible when she does go , Master .
She has never been away from us for a day -- she is all the brightness there is in our lives .
It is very kind of you to say that she can come home whenever she likes , but there will be a great difference .
She will belong to your world and not to ours .
That is for the best -- and we would n't have it otherwise .
But let us keep her as our own for this one winter yet . ''
Eric yielded with the best grace he could muster .
After all , he reflected , Lindsay was not so far from Queenslea , and there were such things as boats and trains .
`` Have you told your father about all this yet ? ''
asked Janet anxiously .
No , he had not .
But he went home and wrote a full account of his summer to old Mr. Marshall that night .
Mr. Marshall , Senior , answered the letter in person .
A few days later , Eric , coming home from school , found his father sitting in Mrs. Williamson 's prim , fleckless parlour .
Nothing was said about Eric 's letter , however , until after tea .
When they found themselves alone , Mr. Marshall said abruptly , `` Eric , what about this girl ?
I hope you have n't gone and made a fool of yourself .
It sounds remarkably like it .
A girl that has been dumb all her life -- a girl with no right to her father 's name -- a country girl brought up in a place like Lindsay !
Your wife will have to fill your mother 's place , -- and your mother was a pearl among women .
Do you think this girl is worthy of it ?
It is n't possible !
You 've been led away by a pretty face and dairy maid freshness .
I expected some trouble out of this freak of yours coming over here to teach school . ''
`` Wait until you see Kilmeny , father , '' said Eric , smiling .
`` Humph !
That 's just exactly what David Baker said .
I went straight to him when I got your letter , for I knew that there was some connection between it and that mysterious visit of his over here , concerning which I never could drag a word out of him by hook or crook .
And all HE said was , ` Wait until you see Kilmeny Gordon , sir . '
Well , I WILL wait till I see her , but I shall look at her with the eyes of sixty-five , mind you , not the eyes of twenty-four .
And if she is n't what your wife ought to be , sir , you give her up or paddle your own canoe .
I shall not aid or abet you in making a fool of yourself and spoiling your life . ''
Eric bit his lip , but only said quietly , `` Come with me , father .
We will go to see her now . ''
They went around by way of the main road and the Gordon lane .
Kilmeny was not in when they reached the house .
`` She is up in the old orchard , Master , '' said Janet .
`` She loves that place so much she spends all her spare time there .
She likes to go there to study . ''
They sat down and talked awhile with Thomas and Janet .
When they left , Mr. Marshall said , `` I like those people .
If Thomas Gordon had been a man like Robert Williamson I should n't have waited to see your Kilmeny .
But they are all right -- rugged and grim , but of good stock and pith -- native refinement and strong character .
But I must say candidly that I hope your young lady has n't got her aunt 's mouth . ''
`` Kilmeny 's mouth is like a love-song made incarnate in sweet flesh , '' said Eric enthusiastically .
`` Humph ! ''
said Mr. Marshall .
`` Well , '' he added more tolerantly , a moment later , `` I was a poet , too , for six months in my life when I was courting your mother . ''
Kilmeny was reading on the bench under the lilac trees when they reached the orchard .
She stood up and came shyly forward to meet them , guessing who the tall , white-haired old gentleman with Eric must be .
As she approached Eric saw with a thrill of exultation that she had never looked lovelier .
She wore a dress of her favourite blue , simply and quaintly made , as all her gowns were , revealing the perfect lines of her lithe , slender figure .
Her glossy black hair was wound about her head in a braided coronet , against which a spray of wild asters shone like pale purple stars .
Her face was flushed delicately with excitement .
She looked like a young princess , crowned with a ruddy splash of sunlight that fell through the old trees .
`` Father , this is Kilmeny , '' said Eric proudly .
Kilmeny held out her hand with a shyly murmured greeting .
Mr. Marshall took it and held it in his , looking so steadily and piercingly into her face that even her frank gaze wavered before the intensity of his keen old eyes .
Then he drew her to him and kissed her gravely and gently on her white forehead .
`` My dear , '' he said , `` I am glad and proud that you have consented to be my son 's wife -- and my very dear and honoured daughter . ''
Eric turned abruptly away to hide his emotion and on his face was a light as of one who sees a great glory widening and deepening down the vista of his future .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Lucy_Maud_Montgomery_Short_Stories,_1896_to_1901.txt.out
A Case of Trespass It was the forenoon of a hazy , breathless day , and Dan Phillips was trouting up one of the back creeks of the Carleton pond .
It was somewhat cooler up the creek than out on the main body of water , for the tall birches and willows , crowding down to the brim , threw cool , green shadows across it and shut out the scorching glare , while a stray breeze now and then rippled down the wooded slopes , rustling the beech leaves with an airy , pleasant sound .
Out in the pond the glassy water creamed and shimmered in the hot sun , unrippled by the faintest breath of air .
Across the soft , pearly tints of the horizon blurred the smoke of the big factory chimneys that were owned by Mr. Walters , to whom the pond and adjacent property also belonged .
Mr. Walters was a comparative stranger in Carleton , having but recently purchased the factories from the heirs of the previous owner ; but he had been in charge long enough to establish a reputation for sternness and inflexibility in all his business dealings .
One or two of his employees , who had been discharged by him on what they deemed insufficient grounds , helped to deepen the impression that he was an unjust and arbitrary man , merciless to all offenders , and intolerant of the slightest infringement of his cast-iron rules .
Dan Phillips had been on the pond ever since sunrise .
The trout had risen well in the early morning , but as the day wore on , growing hotter and hotter , they refused to bite , and for half an hour Dan had not caught one .
He had a goodly string of them already , however , and he surveyed them with satisfaction as he rowed his leaky little skiff to the shore of the creek .
`` Pretty good catch , '' he soliloquized .
`` Best I 've had this summer , so far .
That big spotted one must weigh near a pound .
He 's a beauty .
They 're a good price over at the hotels now , too .
I 'll go home and get my dinner and go straight over with them .
That 'll leave me time for another try at them about sunset .
Whew , how hot it is !
I must take Ella May home a bunch of them blue flags .
They 're real handsome ! ''
He tied his skiff under the crowding alders , gathered a big bunch of the purple flag lilies with their silky petals , and started homeward , whistling cheerily as he stepped briskly along the fern-carpeted wood path that wound up the hill under the beeches and firs .
He was a freckled , sunburned lad of thirteen years .
His neighbours all said that Danny was `` as smart as a steel trap , '' and immediately added that they wondered where he got his smartness from -- certainly not from his father !
The elder Phillips had been denominated `` shiftless and slack-twisted '' by all who ever had any dealings with him in his unlucky , aimless life -- one of those improvident , easygoing souls who sit contentedly down to breakfast with a very faint idea where their dinner is to come from .
When he had died , no one had missed him , unless it were his patient , sad-eyed wife , who bravely faced her hard lot , and toiled unremittingly to keep a home for her two children -- Dan and a girl two years younger , who was a helpless cripple , suffering from some form of spinal disease .
Dan , who was old and steady for his years , had gone manfully to work to assist his mother .
Though he had been disappointed in all his efforts to obtain steady employment , he was active and obliging , and earned many a small amount by odd jobs around the village , and by helping the Carleton farmers in planting and harvest .
For the last two years , however , his most profitable source of summer income had been the trout pond .
The former owner had allowed anyone who wished to fish in his pond , and Dan made a regular business of it , selling his trout at the big hotels over at Mosquito Lake .
This , in spite of its unattractive name , was a popular summer resort , and Dan always found a ready market for his catch .
When Mr. Walters purchased the property it somehow never occurred to Dan that the new owner might not be so complaisant as his predecessor in the matter of the best trouting pond in the country .
To be sure , Dan often wondered why it was the pond was so deserted this summer .
He could not recall having seen a single person on it save himself .
Still , it did not cross his mind that there could be any particular reason for this .
He always fished up in the cool , dim creeks , which long experience had taught him were best for trout , and came and went by a convenient wood path ; but he had no thought of concealment in so doing .
He would not have cared had all Carleton seen him .
He had done very well with his fish so far , and prices for trout at the Lake went up every day .
Dan was an enterprising boy , and a general favourite with the hotel owners .
They knew that he could always be depended on .
Mrs. Phillips met him at the door when he reached home .
`` See , Mother , '' said Dan exultantly , as he held up his fish .
`` Just look at that fellow , will you ?
A pound if he 's an ounce !
I ought to get a good price for these , I can tell you .
Let me have my dinner now , and I 'll go right over to the Lake with them . ''
`` It 's a long walk for you , Danny , '' replied his mother pityingly , `` and it 's too hot to go so far .
I 'm afraid you 'll get sun-struck or something .
You 'd better wait till the cool of the evening .
You 're looking real pale and thin this while back . ''
`` Oh , I 'm all right , Mother , '' assured Dan cheerfully .
`` I do n't mind the heat a bit .
A fellow must put up with some inconveniences .
Wait till I bring home the money for these fish .
And I mean to have another catch tonight .
It 's you that 's looking tired .
I wish you did n't have to work so hard , Mother .
If I could only get a good place you could take it easier .
Sam French says that Mr. Walters wants a boy up there at the factory , but I know I would n't do .
I ai n't big enough .
Perhaps something will turn up soon though .
When our ship comes in , Mother , we 'll have our good times . ''
He picked up his flags and went into the little room where his sister lay .
`` See what I 've brought you , Ella May ! ''
he said , as he thrust the cool , moist clusters into her thin , eager hands .
`` Did you ever see such beauties ? ''
`` Oh , Dan , how lovely they are !
Thank you ever so much !
If you are going over to the Lake this afternoon , will you please call at Mrs. Henny 's and get those nutmeg geranium slips she promised me ?
Just look how nice my others are growing .
The pink one is going to bloom . ''
`` I 'll bring you all the geranium slips at the Lake , if you like .
When I get rich , Ella May , I 'll build you a big conservatory , and I 'll get every flower in the world in it for you .
You shall just live and sleep among posies .
Is dinner ready , Mother ?
Trouting 's hungry work , I tell you .
What paper is this ? ''
He picked up a folded newspaper from the table .
`` Oh , that 's only an old Lake Advertiser , '' answered Mrs. Phillips , as she placed the potatoes on the table and wiped her moist , hot face with the corner of her gingham apron .
`` Letty Mills brought it in around a parcel this morning .
It 's four weeks old , but I kept it to read if I ever get time .
It 's so seldom we see a paper of any kind nowadays .
But I have n't looked at it yet .
Why , Danny , what on earth is the matter ? ''
For Dan , who had opened the paper and glanced over the first page , suddenly gave a choked exclamation and turned pale , staring stupidly at the sheet before him .
`` See , Mother , '' he gasped , as she came up in alarm and looked over his shoulder .
This is what they read : Notice Anyone found fishing on my pond at Carleton after date will be prosecuted according to law , without respect of persons .
June First .
H.C. Walters .
`` Oh , Danny , what does it mean ? ''
Dan went and carefully closed the door of Ella May 's room before he replied .
His face was pale and his voice shaky .
`` Mean ?
Well , Mother , it just means that I 've been stealing Mr. Walters 's trout all summer -- stealing them .
That 's what it means . ''
`` Oh , Danny !
But you did n't know . ''
`` No , but I ought to have remembered that he was the new owner , and have asked him .
I never thought .
Mother , what does ` prosecuted according to law ' mean ? ''
`` I do n't know , I 'm sure , Danny .
But if this is so , there 's only one thing to be done .
You must go straight to Mr. Walters and tell him all about it . ''
`` Mother , I do n't dare to .
He is a dreadfully hard man .
Sam French 's father says -- '' `` I would n't believe a word Sam French 's father says about Mr. Walters ! ''
said Mrs. Phillips firmly .
`` He 's got a spite against him because he was dismissed .
Besides , Danny , it 's the only right thing to do .
You know that .
We 're poor , but we have never done anything underhand yet . ''
`` Yes , Mother , I know , '' said Dan , gulping his fear bravely down .
`` I 'll go , of course , right after dinner .
I was only scared at first .
I 'll tell you what I 'll do .
I 'll clean these trout nicely and take them to Mr. Walters , and tell him that , if he 'll only give me time , I 'll pay him back every cent of money I got for all I sold this summer .
Then maybe he 'll let me off , seeing as I did n't know about the notice . ''
`` I 'll go with you , Danny . ''
`` No , I 'll go alone , Mother .
You need n't go with me , '' said Dan heroically .
To himself he said that his mother had troubles enough .
He would never subject her to the added ordeal of an interview with the stern factory owner .
He would beard the lion in his den himself , if it had to be done .
`` Do n't tell Ella May anything about it .
It would worry her .
And do n't cry , Mother , I guess it 'll be all right .
Let me have my dinner now and I 'll go straight off . ''
Dan ate his dinner rapidly ; then he carefully cleaned his trout , put them in a long basket , with rhubarb leaves over them , and started with an assumed cheerfulness very far from his real feelings .
He had barely passed the gate when another boy came shuffling along -- a tall , raw-boned lad , with an insinuating smile and shifty , cunning eyes .
The newcomer nodded familiarly to Dan .
`` Hello , sonny .
Going over to the Lake with your catch , are you ?
You 'll fry up before you get there .
There 'll be nothing left of you but a crisp . ''
`` No , I 'm not going to the Lake .
I 'm going up to the factory to see Mr. Walters . ''
Sam French gave a long whistle of surprise .
`` Why , Dan , what 's taking you there ?
You surely ai n't thinking of trying for that place , are you ?
Walters would n't look at you .
Why , he would n't take me !
You have n't the ghost of a chance . ''
`` No , I 'm not going for that .
Sam , did you know that Mr. Walters had a notice in the Lake Advertiser that nobody could fish in his pond this summer ? ''
`` Course I did -- the old skinflint !
He 's too mean to live , that 's what .
He never goes near the pond himself .
Regular dog in the manger , he is .
Dad says -- '' `` Sam , why did n't you tell me about that notice ? ''
`` Gracious , did n't you know ?
I s ` posed everybody did , and here I 've been taking you for the cutest chap this side of sunset -- fishing away up in that creek where no one could see you , and cutting home through the woods on the sly .
You do n't mean to tell me you never saw that notice ? ''
`` No , I did n't .
Do you think I 'd have gone near the pond if I had ?
I never saw it till today , and I 'm going straight to Mr. Walters now to tell him about it . ''
Sam French stopped short in the dusty road and stared at Dan in undisguised amazement .
`` Dan Phillips , '' he ejaculated , `` have you plum gone out of your mind ?
Boy alive , you need n't be afraid that I 'd peach on you .
I 'm too blamed glad to see anyone get the better of that old Walters , smart as he thinks himself .
Gee !
To dream of going to him and telling him you 've been fishing in his pond !
Why , he 'll put you in jail .
You do n't know what sort of a man he is .
Dad says -- '' `` Never mind what your dad says , Sam .
My mind 's made up . ''
`` Dan , you chump , listen to me .
That notice says ` prosecuted according to law . '
Why , Danny , he 'll put you in prison , or fine you , or something dreadful . ''
`` I ca n't help it if he does , '' said Danny stoutly .
`` You get out of here , Sam French , and do n't be trying to scare me .
I mean to be honest , and how can I be if I do n't own up to Mr. Walters that I 've been stealing his trout all summer ? ''
`` Stealing , fiddlesticks !
Dan , I used to think you were a chap with some sense , but I see I was mistaken .
You ai n't done no harm .
Walters will never miss them trout .
If you 're so dreadful squeamish that you wo n't fish no more , why , you need n't .
But just let the matter drop and hold your tongue about it .
That 's my advice . ''
`` Well , it is n't my mother 's , then .
I mean to go by hers .
You need n't argue no more , Sam .
I 'm going . ''
`` Go , then ! ''
said Sam , stopping short in disgust .
`` You 're a big fool , Dan , and serve you right if Walters lands you off to jail ; but I do n't wish you no ill .
If I can do anything for your family after you 're gone , I will , and I 'll try and give your remains Christian burial -- if there are any remains .
So long , Danny !
Give my love to old Walters ! ''
Dan was not greatly encouraged by this interview .
He shrank more than ever from the thought of facing the stern factory owner .
His courage had almost evaporated when he entered the office at the factory and asked shakily for Mr. Walters .
`` He 's in his office there , '' replied the clerk , `` but he 's very busy .
Better leave your message with me . ''
`` I must see Mr. Walters himself , please , '' said Dan firmly , but with inward trepidation .
The clerk swung himself impatiently from his stool and ushered Dan into Mr. Walters 's private office .
`` Boy to see you , sir , '' he said briefly , as he closed the ground-glass door behind him .
Dan , dizzy and trembling , stood in the dreaded presence .
Mr. Walters was writing at a table covered with a businesslike litter of papers .
He laid down his pen and looked up with a frown as the clerk vanished .
He was a stern-looking man with deep-set grey eyes and a square , clean-shaven chin .
There was not an ounce of superfluous flesh on his frame , and his voice and manner were those of the decided , resolute , masterful man of business .
He pointed to a capacious leather chair and said concisely , `` What is your business with me , boy ? ''
Dan had carefully thought out a statement of facts beforehand , but every word had vanished from his memory .
He had only a confused , desperate consciousness that he had a theft to confess and that it must be done as soon as possible .
He did not sit down .
`` Please , Mr. Walters , '' he began desperately , `` I came to tell you -- your notice -- I never saw it before -- and I 've been fishing on your pond all summer -- but I did n't know -- honest -- I 've brought you all I caught today -- and I 'll pay back for them all -- some time . ''
An amused , puzzled expression crossed Mr. Walters 's noncommittal face .
He pushed the leather chair forward .
`` Sit down , my boy , '' he said kindly .
`` I do n't quite understand this somewhat mixed-up statement of yours .
You 've been fishing on my pond , you say .
Did n't you see my notice in the Advertiser ? ''
Dan sat down more composedly .
The revelation was over and he was still alive .
`` No , sir .
We hardly ever see an Advertiser , and nobody told me .
I 'd always been used to fishing there , and I never thought but what it was all right to keep on .
I know I ought to have remembered and asked you , but truly , sir , I did n't mean to steal your fish .
I used to sell them over at the hotels .
We saw the notice today , Mother and me , and I came right up .
I 've brought you the trout I caught this morning , and -- if only you wo n't prosecute me , sir , I 'll pay back every cent I got for the others -- every cent , sir -- if you 'll give me time . ''
Mr. Walters passed his hand across his mouth to conceal something like a smile .
`` Your name is Dan Phillips , is n't it ? ''
he said irrelevantly , `` and you live with your mother , the Widow Phillips , down there at Carleton Corners , I understand . ''
`` Yes , sir , '' said Dan , wondering how Mr. Walters knew so much about him , and if these were the preliminaries of prosecution .
Mr. Walters took up his pen and drew a blank sheet towards him .
`` Well , Dan , I put that notice in because I found that many people who used to fish on my pond , irrespective of leave or licence , were accustomed to lunch or camp on my property , and did not a little damage .
I do n't care for trouting myself ; I 've no time for it .
However , I hardly think you 'll do much damage .
You can keep on fishing there .
I 'll give you a written permission , so that if any of my men see you they wo n't interfere with you .
As for these trout here , I 'll buy them from you at Mosquito Lake prices , and will say no more about the matter .
How will that do ? ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' stammered Dan .
He could hardly believe his ears .
He took the slip of paper Mr. Walters handed to him and rose to his feet .
`` Wait a minute , Dan .
How was it you came to tell me this ?
You might have stopped your depredations , and I should not have been any the wiser . ''
`` That would n't have been honest , sir , '' said Dan , looking squarely at him .
There was a brief silence .
Mr. Walters thrummed meditatively on the table .
Dan waited wonderingly .
Finally the factory owner said abruptly , `` There 's a vacant place for a boy down here .
I want it filled as soon as possible .
Will you take it ? ''
`` Mr. Walters !
Me !
'' Dan thought the world must be turning upside down .
`` Yes , you .
You are rather young , but the duties are not hard or difficult to learn .
I think you 'll do .
I was resolved not to fill that place until I could find a perfectly honest and trustworthy boy for it .
I believe I have found him .
I discharged the last boy because he lied to me about some trifling offence for which I would have forgiven him if he had told the truth .
I can bear with incompetency , but falsehood and deceit I can not and will not tolerate , '' he said , so sternly that Dan 's face paled .
`` I am convinced that you are incapable of either .
Will you take the place , Dan ? ''
`` I will if you think I can fill it , sir .
I will do my best . ''
`` Yes , I believe you will .
Perhaps I know more about you than you think .
Businessmen must keep their eyes open .
We 'll regard this matter as settled then .
Come up tomorrow at eight o'clock .
And one word more , Dan .
You have perhaps heard that I am an unjust and hard master .
I am not the former , and you will never have occasion to find me the latter if you are always as truthful and straightforward as you have been today .
You might easily have deceived me in this matter .
That you did not do so is the best and only recommendation I require .
Take those trout up to my house and leave them .
That will do .
Good afternoon . ''
Dan somehow got his dazed self through the glass door and out of the building .
The whole interview had been such a surprise to him that he was hardly sure whether or not he had dreamed it all .
`` I feel as if I were some person else , '' he said to himself , as he started down the hot white road .
`` But Mother was right .
I 'll stick to her motto .
I wonder what Sam will say to this . ''
A Christmas Inspiration `` Well , I really think Santa Claus has been very good to us all , '' said Jean Lawrence , pulling the pins out of her heavy coil of fair hair and letting it ripple over her shoulders .
`` So do I , '' said Nellie Preston as well as she could with a mouthful of chocolates .
`` Those blessed home folks of mine seem to have divined by instinct the very things I most wanted . ''
It was the dusk of Christmas Eve and they were all in Jean Lawrence 's room at No. 16 Chestnut Terrace .
No. 16 was a boarding-house , and boarding-houses are not proverbially cheerful places in which to spend Christmas , but Jean 's room , at least , was a pleasant spot , and all the girls had brought their Christmas presents in to show each other .
Christmas came on Sunday that year and the Saturday evening mail at Chestnut Terrace had been an exciting one .
Jean had lighted the pink-globed lamp on her table and the mellow light fell over merry faces as the girls chatted about their gifts .
On the table was a big white box heaped with roses that betokened a bit of Christmas extravagance on somebody 's part .
Jean 's brother had sent them to her from Montreal , and all the girls were enjoying them in common .
No. 16 Chestnut Terrace was overrun with girls generally .
But just now only five were left ; all the others had gone home for Christmas , but these five could not go and were bent on making the best of it .
Belle and Olive Reynolds , who were sitting on the bed -- Jean could never keep them off it -- were High School girls ; they were said to be always laughing , and even the fact that they could not go home for Christmas because a young brother had measles did not dampen their spirits .
Beth Hamilton , who was hovering over the roses , and Nellie Preston , who was eating candy , were art students , and their homes were too far away to visit .
As for Jean Lawrence , she was an orphan , and had no home of her own .
She worked on the staff of one of the big city newspapers and the other girls were a little in awe of her cleverness , but her nature was a `` chummy '' one and her room was a favourite rendezvous .
Everybody liked frank , open-handed and hearted Jean .
`` It was so funny to see the postman when he came this evening , '' said Olive .
`` He just bulged with parcels .
They were sticking out in every direction . ''
`` We all got our share of them , '' said Jean with a sigh of content .
`` Even the cook got six -- I counted . ''
`` Miss Allen did n't get a thing -- not even a letter , '' said Beth quickly .
Beth had a trick of seeing things that other girls did n't .
`` I forgot Miss Allen .
No , I do n't believe she did , '' answered Jean thoughtfully as she twisted up her pretty hair .
`` How dismal it must be to be so forlorn as that on Christmas Eve of all times .
Ugh !
I 'm glad I have friends . ''
`` I saw Miss Allen watching us as we opened our parcels and letters , '' Beth went on .
`` I happened to look up once , and such an expression as was on her face , girls !
It was pathetic and sad and envious all at once .
It really made me feel bad -- for five minutes , '' she concluded honestly .
`` Has n't Miss Allen any friends at all ? ''
asked Beth .
`` No , I do n't think she has , '' answered Jean .
`` She has lived here for fourteen years , so Mrs. Pickrell says .
