`` Wo n't you go on , please ?
I am very fond of music . ''
Miss LeMar turned again to the organ .
The gleaming curves of her neck and shoulders rose out of their filmy sheathings of lace .
Spencer , sitting where he could see her face with its rose-leaf bloom and the ringlets of golden hair clustering about it , gazed at her , unheeding of aught else .
Estella saw his look .
She suddenly began to hate the black-eyed witch at the organ -- and to fear her as well .
Why did Spencer look at her like that ?
She wished she had not brought him in at all .
She felt commonplace and angry , and wanted to cry .
Vivienne LeMar went on singing , drifting from one sweet love song into another .
Once she looked up at Spencer Morgan .
He rose quickly and went to her side , looking down at her with a strange fire in his eyes .
Estella got up abruptly and left the room .
She was angry and jealous , but she thought Spencer would follow her .
When he did not , she could not believe it .
She waited on the porch for him , not knowing whether she were more angry or miserable .
She would not go back into the room .
Vivienne LeMar had stopped singing .
She could hear a low murmur of voices .
When she had waited there an hour , she went in and upstairs to her room with ostentatious footsteps .
She was too angry to cry or to realize what had happened , and still kept hoping all sorts of impossible things as she sat by her window .
It was ten o'clock when Spencer went away and Vivienne LeMar passed up the hall to her room .
Estella clenched her hands in an access of helpless rage .
She was very angry , but under her fury was a horrible ache of pain .
It could not be only three hours since she had been so happy !
It must be more than that !
What had happened ?
Had she made a fool of herself ?
Ought she to have behaved in any other way ?
Perhaps Spencer had come out to look for her after she had gone upstairs and , not finding her , had gone back to Miss LeMar to show her he was angry .
This poor hope was a small comfort .
She wished she had not acted as she had .
It looked spiteful and jealous , and Spencer did not like people who were spiteful and jealous .
She would show him she was sorry when he came back , and it would be all right .
She lay awake most of the night , thinking out plausible reasons and excuses for Spencer 's behaviour , and trying to convince herself that she had exaggerated everything absurdly .
Towards morning she fell asleep and awoke hardly remembering what had happened .
Then it rolled back upon her crushingly .
But she rose and dressed in better spirits .
It had been hardest to lie there and do nothing .
Now the day was before her and something pleasant might happen .
Spencer might come back in the evening .
She would be doubly nice to him to make up .
Mrs. Bowes looked sharply at her niece 's dull eyes and pale cheeks at the breakfast table .
She had her own thoughts of things .
She was a large , handsome woman with a rather harsh face .
`` Did you go upstairs last night and leave Spencer Morgan with Miss LeMar ? ''
she asked bluntly .
`` Yes , '' muttered Estella .
`` Did you have a quarrel with him ? ''
`` No . ''
`` What made you act so queer ? ''
`` I could n't help it , '' faltered the girl .
The food she was eating seemed to choke her .
She wished she were a hundred miles away from everyone she ever knew .
Mrs. Bowes gave a grunt of dissatisfaction .
`` Well , I think it is a pretty queer piece of business .
But if you are satisfied , it is n't anyone else 's concern , I suppose .
He stayed with her till ten o'clock and when he left she did everything but kiss him -- and she asked him to come back too .
I heard . ''
`` Aunt ! ''
protested the girl .
She felt as if her aunt were striking her blow after blow on a sensitive , quivering spot .
It was bad enough to know it all , but to hear it put into such cold , brutal words was more than she could endure .
It seemed to make everything so horribly sure .
`` I guess I had a right to listen , had n't I , with such goings on in my own house ?
You 're a little fool , Estella Bowes !
I do n't believe that LeMar girl is a bit better than she ought to be .
I wish I 'd never taken her to board , and if you say so , I 'll send her packing right off and not give her a chance to make mischief atween folks . ''
Estella 's suffering found vent in a burst of anger .
`` You need n't do anything of the sort ! ''
she cried .
`` It 's all nonsense about Spencer -- it was my fault -- and anyhow , if he is so easily led away as that , I am sure I do n't want him !
I wish to goodness , Aunt , you 'd leave me alone ! ''
`` Oh , very well ! ''
returned Mrs. Bowes in an offended tone .
`` It was for your own good I spoke .
You know best , I suppose .
If you do n't care , I do n't know that anyone else need . ''
Estella went about her work like one in a dream .
A great hatred had sprung up in her heart against Vivienne LeMar .
The simple-hearted country girl felt almost murderous .
The whole day seemed like a nightmare to her .
When night came she dressed herself with feverish care , for she could not quell the hope that Spencer would surely come again .
But he did not ; and when she went up to bed , it did not seem as if she could live through the night .
She lay staring wide-eyed through the darkness until dawn .
She wished that she might cry , but no tears came to her relief .
Next day she went to work with furious energy .
When her usual tasks were done , she ransacked the house for other employment .
She was afraid if she stopped work for a moment she would go mad .
Mrs. Bowes watched her with a grim pity .
At night she walked to prayer meeting in the schoolhouse a mile away .
She always went , and Spencer was generally on hand to see her home .
He was not there tonight .
She wished she had not come .
It was dreadful to have to sit still and think .
She did not hear a word the minister said .
She had to walk home with a crowd of girls and nerve herself to answer their merry sallies that no one might suspect .
She was tortured by the fear that everyone knew her shame and humiliation and was pitying her .
She got hysterically gay , but underneath all she was constantly trying to assign a satisfactory reason for Spencer 's nonappearance .
He was often kept away , and of course he was a little cross at her yet , as was natural .
If he had come before her then , she could have gone down in the very dust at his feet and implored his forgiveness .
When she reached home she went into the garden and sat down .
The calm of the night soothed her .
She felt happier and more hopeful .
She thought over all that had passed between her and Spencer and all his loving assurances , and the recollection comforted her .
She was almost happy when she went in .
Tomorrow is Sunday , she thought when she wakened in the morning .
Her step was lighter and her face brighter .
Mrs. Bowes seemed to be in a bad humour .
Presently she said bluntly : `` Do you know that Spencer Morgan was here last night ? ''
Estella felt the cold tighten round her heart .
Yet underneath it sprang up a wild , sweet hope .
`` Spencer here !
I suppose he forgot it was prayer meeting night .
What did he say ?
Why did n't you tell him where I was ? ''
`` I do n't know that he forgot it was prayer meeting night , '' returned Mrs. Bowes with measured emphasis . ''
'T is n't likely his memory has failed so all at once .
He did n't ask where you was .
He took good care to go before you got home too .
Miss LeMar entertained him .
I guess she was quite capable of it . ''
Estella bent over her dishes in silence .
Her face was deadly white .
`` I 'll send her away , '' said Mrs. Bowes pityingly .
`` When she 's gone , Spencer will soon come back to you . ''
`` No , you wo n't ! ''
said Estella fiercely .
`` If you do , she 'll only go over to Barstows ' , and it would be worse than ever .
I do n't care -- I 'll show them both I do n't care !
As for Spencer coming back to me , do you think I want her leavings ?
He 's welcome to go . ''
`` He 's only just fooled by her pretty face , '' persisted Mrs. Bowes in a clumsy effort at consolation .
`` She 's just turning his head , the hussy , and he is n't really in his proper senses .
You 'll see , he 'll be ashamed of himself when he comes to them again .
He knows very well in his heart that you 're worth ten girls like her . ''
Estella faced around .
`` Aunt , '' she said desperately , `` you mean well , I know , but you 're killing me !
I ca n't stand it .
For pity 's sake , do n't say another word to me about this , no matter what happens .
And do n't keep looking at me as if I were a martyr !
She watches us and it would please her to think I cared .
I do n't -- and I mean she shall see I do n't .
I guess I 'm well rid of a fellow as fickle as he is , and I 've sense enough to know it . ''
She went upstairs then , tearing off her turquoise engagement ring as she climbed the steps .
All sorts of wild ideas flashed through her head .
She would go down and confront Vivienne LeMar -- she would rush off and find Spencer and throw his ring at him , no matter where he was -- she would go away where no one would ever see her again .
Why could n't she die ?
Was it possible people could suffer like this and yet go on living ?
`` I do n't care -- I do n't care ! ''
she moaned , telling the lie aloud to herself , as if she hoped that by this means she would come to believe it .
When twilight came she went out to the front steps and leaned her aching head against the honeysuckle trellis .
The sun had just set and the whole world swam in dusky golden light .
The wonderful beauty frightened her .
She felt like a blot on it .
While she stood there , a buggy came driving up the lane and wheeled about at the steps .
In it was Spencer Morgan .
Estella saw him and , in spite of the maddening throb of hope that seemed suddenly to transfigure the world for her , her pride rose in arms .
Had Spencer come the night before , he would have found her loving and humble .
Even now , had she but been sure that he had come to see her , she would have unbent .
But was it the other ?
The torturing doubt stung her to the quick .
She waited , stubbornly resolved that she would not speak first .
It was not in her place .
Spencer Morgan flicked his horse sharply with his whip .
He dared not look at Estella , but he felt her uncompromising attitude .
He was miserably ashamed of himself , and he felt angry at Estella for his shame .
`` Do you care to come for a drive ? ''
he asked awkwardly , with a covert glance at the parlour windows .
Estella caught the glance and her jealous perception instantly divined its true significance .
Her heart died within her .
She did not care what she said .
`` Oh , '' she cried with a toss of her head , `` it 's not me you want -- it 's Miss LeMar , is n't it ?
She 's away at the shore .
You 'll find her there , I dare say . ''
Still , in spite of all , she perversely hoped .
If he would only make any sign , the least in the world , that he was sorry -- that he still loved her -- she could forgive him everything .
When he drove away without another word , she could not believe it again .
Surely he would not go -- surely he knew she did not mean it -- he would turn back before he got to the gate .
But he did not .
She saw him disappear around the turn of the road .
She could not see if he took the shore lane further on , but she was sure he would .
She was furious at herself for acting as she had done .
It was all her fault again !
Oh , if he would only give her another chance !
She was in her room when she heard the buggy drive up again .
She knew it was Spencer and that he had brought Vivienne LeMar home .
Acting on a sudden wild impulse , the girl stepped out on the landing and confronted her rival as she came up the stairs .
The latter paused at sight of the white face and anguished eyes .
There was a little mocking smile on her lovely face .
`` Miss LeMar , '' said Estella in a quivering voice , `` what do you mean by all this ?
You know I 'm engaged to Spencer Morgan ! ''
Miss LeMar laughed softly .
`` Really ?
If you are engaged to the young man , my dear Miss Bowes , I would advise you to look after him more sharply .
He seems very willing to flirt , I should say . ''
She passed on to her room with a malicious smile .
Estella shrank back against the wall , humiliated and baffled .
When she found herself alone , she crawled back to her room and threw herself face downward on the bed , praying that she might die .
But she had to live through the horrible month that followed -- a month so full of agony that she seemed to draw every breath in pain .
Spencer never sought her again ; he went everywhere with Miss LeMar .
His infatuation was the talk of the settlement .
Estella knew that her story was in everyone 's mouth , and her pride smarted ; but she carried a brave front outwardly .
No one should say she cared .
She believed that the actress was merely deluding Spencer for her own amusement and would never dream of marrying him .
But one day the idea occurred to her that she might .
Estella had always told herself that even if Spencer wanted to come back to her she would never take him back , but now , by the half-sick horror that came over her , she knew how strong the hope had really been and despised herself more than ever .
One evening she was alone in the parlour .
She had lit the lamp and was listlessly arranging the little room .
She looked old and worn .
Her colour was gone and her eyes were dull .
As she worked , the door opened and Vivienne LeMar walked or , rather , reeled into the room .
Estella dropped the book she held and gazed at her as one in a dream .
The actress 's face was flushed and her hair was wildly disordered .
Her eyes glittered with an unearthly light .
She was talking incoherently .
The air was heavy with the fumes of brandy .
Estella laughed hysterically .
Vivienne LeMar was grossly intoxicated .
This woman whom Spencer Morgan worshipped , for whom he had forsaken her , was reeling about the room , laughing idiotically , talking wildly in a thick voice .
If he could but see her now !
Estella turned white with the passion of the wild idea that had come to her .
Spencer Morgan should see this woman in her true colours .
She lost no time .
Swiftly she left the room and locked the door behind her on the maudlin , babbling creature inside .
Then she flung a shawl over her head and ran from the house .
It was not far to the Morgan homestead .
She ran all the way , hardly knowing what she was doing .
Mrs. Morgan answered her knock .
She gazed in bewilderment at Estella 's wild face .
`` I want Spencer , '' said the girl through her white lips .
The elder woman stepped back in dumb amazement .
She knew and rued her son 's folly .
What could Estella want with him ?
The young man appeared in the doorway .
Estella caught him by the arm and pulled him outside .
`` Miss LeMar wants you at once , '' she said hoarsely .
`` At once -- you are to come at once ! ''
`` Has anything happened to her ? ''
cried Spencer savagely .
`` Is she ill -- is she -- what is the matter ? ''
`` No , she is not ill .
But she wants you .
Come at once . ''
He started off bareheaded .
Estella followed him up the road breathlessly .
Surely it was the strangest walk ever a girl had , she told herself with mirthless laughter .
She pushed the key into his hand at the porch .
`` She 's in the parlour , '' she said wildly .
`` Go in and look at her , Spencer . ''
Spencer snatched the key and fitted it into the door .
He was full of fear .
Had Estella gone out of her mind ?
Had she done anything to Vivienne ?
Had she -- As he entered , the actress reeled to her feet and came to meet him .
He stood and gazed at her stupidly .
This could not be Vivienne , this creature reeking with brandy , uttering such foolish words !
What fiend was this in her likeness ?
He grew sick at heart and brain ; she had her arms about him .
He tried to push her away , but she clung closer , and her senseless laughter echoed through the room .
He flung her from him with an effort and rushed out through the hall and down the road like a madman .
Estella , watching him , felt that she was avenged .
She was glad with a joy more pitiful than grief .
Vivienne LeMar left the cottage the next day .
Mrs. Bowes , suspecting some mystery , questioned Estella sharply , but could find out nothing .
The girl kept her own counsel stubbornly .
The interest and curiosity of the village centred around Spencer Morgan , and his case was well discussed .
Gossip said that the actress had jilted him and that he was breaking his heart about it .
Then came the rumour that he was going West .
Estella heard it apathetically .
Life seemed ended for her .
There was nothing to look forward to .
She could not even look back .
All the past was embittered .
She had never met Spencer since the night she went after him .
She sometimes wondered what he must think of her for what she had done .
Did he think her unwomanly and revengeful ?
She did not care .
It was rather a relief to hear that he was going away .
She would not be tortured by the fear of meeting him then .
She was sure he would never come back to her .
If he did , she would never forgive him .
One evening in early harvest Estella was lingering by the lane gate at twilight .
She had worked slavishly all day and was very tired , but she was loath to go into the house , where her trouble always seemed to weigh on her more heavily .
The dusk , sweet night seemed to soothe her as it always did .
She leaned her head against the poplar by the gate .
How long Spencer Morgan had been standing by her she did not know , but when she looked up he was there .
In the dim light she could see how haggard and hollow-eyed he had grown .
He had changed almost as much as herself .
The girl 's first proud impulse was to turn coldly away and leave him .
But some strange tumult in her heart kept her still .
What had he come to say ?
There was a moment 's fateful silence .
Then Spencer spoke in a muffled voice .
`` I could n't go away without seeing you once more , Estella , to say good-bye .
Perhaps you wo n't speak to me .
You must hate me .
I deserve it . ''
He paused , but she said no word .
She could not .
After a space , he went wistfully on .
`` I know you can never forgive me -- no girl could .
I 've behaved like a fool .
There is n't any excuse to be made for me .
I do n't think I could have been in my right senses , Estella .
It all seems like some bad dream now .
When I saw her that night , I came to my right mind , and I 've been the most miserable man alive ever since .
Not for her -- but because I 'd lost you .
I ca n't bear to live here any longer , so I am going away .
Will you say good-bye , Estella ? ''
Still she did not speak .
There were a hundred things she wanted to say but she could not say them .
Did he mean that he loved her still ?
If she were sure of that , she could forgive him anything , but her doubt rendered her mute .
The young man turned away despairingly from her rigid attitude .
So be it -- he had brought his fate on himself .
He had gone but a few steps when Estella suddenly found her voice with a gasp .
`` Spencer ! ''
He came swiftly back .
`` Oh , Spencer -- do -- you -- do you love me still ? ''
He caught her hands in his .
`` Love you -- oh , Estella , yes , yes !
I always have .
That other was n't love -- it was just madness .
When it passed I hated life because I 'd lost you .
I know you ca n't forgive me , but , oh -- '' He broke down .
Estella flung her arms around his neck and put her face up to his .
She felt as if her heart must break with its great happiness .
He understood her mute pardon .
In their kiss the past was put aside .
Estella 's martyrdom was ended .
The Old Chest at Wyther Grange When I was a child I always thought a visit to Wyther Grange was a great treat .
It was a big , quiet , old-fashioned house where Grandmother Laurance and Mrs. DeLisle , my Aunt Winnifred , lived .
I was a favourite with them , yet I could never overcome a certain awe of them both .
Grandmother was a tall , dignified old lady with keen black eyes that seemed veritably to bore through one .
She always wore stiffly-rustling gowns of rich silk made in the fashion of her youth .
I suppose she must have changed her dress occasionally , but the impression on my mind was always the same , as she went trailing about the house with a big bunch of keys at her belt -- keys that opened a score of wonderful old chests and boxes and drawers .
It was one of my dearest delights to attend Grandmother in her peregrinations and watch the unfolding and examining of all those old treasures and heirlooms of bygone Laurances .
Of Aunt Winnifred I was less in awe , possibly because she dressed in a modern way and so looked to my small eyes more human and natural .
As Winnifred Laurance she had been the beauty of the family and was a handsome woman still , with brilliant dark eyes and cameo-like features .
She always looked very sad , spoke in a low sweet voice , and was my childish ideal of all that was high-bred and graceful .
I had many beloved haunts at the Grange , but I liked the garret best .
It was a roomy old place , big enough to have comfortably housed a family in itself , and was filled with cast-off furniture and old trunks and boxes of discarded finery .
I was never tired of playing there , dressing up in the old-fashioned gowns and hats and practising old-time dance steps before the high , cracked mirror that hung at one end .
That old garret was a veritable fairyland to me .
There was one old chest which I could not explore and , like all forbidden things , it possessed a great attraction for me .
It stood away back in a dusty , cobwebbed corner , a strong , high wooden box , painted blue .
From some words which I had heard Grandmother let fall I was sure it had a history ; it was the one thing she never explored in her periodical overhaulings .
When I grew tired of playing I liked to creep up on it and sit there , picturing out my own fancies concerning it -- of which my favourite one was that some day I should solve the riddle and open the chest to find it full of gold and jewels with which I might restore the fortune of the Laurances and all the traditionary splendours of the old Grange .
I was sitting there one day when Aunt Winnifred and Grandmother Laurance came up the narrow dark staircase , the latter jingling her keys and peering into the dusty corners as she came along the room .
When they came to the old chest , Grandmother rapped the top smartly with her keys .
`` I wonder what is in this old chest , '' she said .
`` I believe it really should be opened .
The moths may have got into it through that crack in the lid . ''
`` Why do n't you open it , Mother ? ''
said Mrs. DeLisle .
`` I am sure that key of Robert 's would fit the lock . ''
`` No , '' said Grandmother in the tone that nobody , not even Aunt Winnifred , ever dreamed of disputing .
`` I will not open that chest without Eliza 's permission .
She confided it to my care when she went away , and I promised that it should never be opened until she came for it . ''
`` Poor Eliza , '' said Mrs. DeLisle thoughtfully .
`` I wonder what she is like now .
Very much changed , like all the rest of us , I suppose .
It is almost thirty years since she was here .
How pretty she was ! ''
`` I never approved of her , '' said Grandmother brusquely .
`` She was a sentimental , fanciful creature .
She might have married well but she preferred to waste her life pining over the memory of a man who was not worthy to untie the shoelace of a Laurance . ''
Mrs. DeLisle sighed softly and made no reply .
People said that she had had her own romance in her youth and that her mother had sternly repressed it .
I had heard that her marriage with Mr. DeLisle was loveless on her part and proved very unhappy .
But he had been dead many years , and Aunt Winnifred never spoke of him .
`` I have made up my mind what to do , '' said Grandmother decidedly .
`` I will write to Eliza and ask her if I may open the chest to see if the moths have got into it .
If she refuses , well and good .
I have no doubt that she will refuse .
She will cling to her old sentimental ideas as long as the breath is in her body . ''
I rather avoided the old chest after this .
It took on a new significance in my eyes and seemed to me like the tomb of something -- possibly some dead and buried romance of the past .
Later on a letter came to Grandmother ; she passed it over the table to Mrs. DeLisle .
`` That is from Eliza , '' she said .
`` I would know her writing anywhere -- none of your modern sprawly , untidy hands , but a fine lady-like script , as regular as copperplate .
Read the letter , Winnifred ; I have n't my glasses and I dare say Eliza 's rhapsodies would tire me very much .
You need not read them aloud -- I can imagine them all .
Let me know what she says about the chest . ''
Aunt Winnifred opened and read the letter and laid it down with a brief sigh .
`` This is all she says about the chest .
` If it were not for one thing that is in it , I would ask you to open the chest and burn all its contents .
But I can not bear that anyone but myself should see or touch that one thing .
So please leave the chest as it is , dear Aunt .
It is no matter if the moths do get in . '
That is all , '' continued Mrs. DeLisle , `` and I must confess that I am disappointed .
I have always had an almost childish curiosity about that old chest , but I seem fated not to have it gratified .
That ` one thing ' must be her wedding dress .
I have always thought that she locked it away there . ''
`` Her answer is just what I expected of her , '' said Grandmother impatiently .
`` Evidently the years have not made her more sensible .
Well , I wash my hands of her belongings , moths or no moths . ''
It was not until ten years afterwards that I heard anything more of the old chest .
Grandmother Laurance had died , but Aunt Winnifred still lived at the Grange .
She was very lonely , and the winter after Grandmother 's death she sent me an invitation to make her a long visit .
When I revisited the garret and saw the old blue chest in the same dusty corner , my childish curiosity revived and I begged Aunt Winnifred to tell me its history .
`` I am glad you have reminded me of it , '' said Mrs. DeLisle .
`` I have intended to open the chest ever since Mother 's death but I kept putting it off .
You know , Amy , poor Eliza Laurance died five years ago , but even then Mother would not have the chest opened .
There is no reason why it should not be examined now .
If you like , we will go and open it at once and afterwards I will tell you the story . ''
We went eagerly up the garret stairs .
Aunt knelt down before the old chest and selected a key from the bunch at her belt .
`` Would it not be too provoking , Amy , if this key should not fit after all ?
Well , I do not believe you would be any more disappointed than I. '' She turned the key and lifted the heavy lid .
I bent forward eagerly .
A layer of tissue paper revealed itself , with a fine tracing of sifted dust in its crinkles .
`` Lift it up , child , '' said my aunt gently .
`` There are no ghosts for you , at least , in this old chest . ''
I lifted the paper up and saw that the chest was divided into two compartments .
Lying on the top of one was a small , square , inlaid box .
This Mrs. DeLisle took up and carried to the window .
Lifting up the cover she laid it in my lap .
`` There , Amy , look through it and let us see what old treasures have lain hidden there these forty years . ''
The first thing I took out was a small square case covered with dark purple velvet .
The tiny clasp was almost rusted away and yielded easily .
I gave a little cry of admiration .
Aunt Winnifred bent over my shoulder .
`` That is Eliza 's portrait at the age of twenty , and that is Willis Starr 's .
Was she not lovely , Amy ? ''
Lovely indeed was the face looking out at me from its border of tarnished gilt .
It was the face of a young girl , in shape a perfect oval , with delicate features and large dark-blue eyes .
Her hair , caught high on the crown and falling on her neck in the long curls of a bygone fashion , was a warm auburn , and the curves of her bare neck and shoulders were exquisite .
`` The other picture is that of the man to whom she was betrothed .
Tell me , Amy , do you think him handsome ? ''
I looked at the other portrait critically .
It was that of a young man of about twenty-five ; he was undeniably handsome , but there was something I did not like in his face and I said so .
Aunt Winnifred made no reply -- she was taking out the remaining contents of the box .
There was a white silk fan with delicately carved ivory sticks , a packet of old letters and a folded paper containing some dried and crumpled flowers .
Aunt laid the box aside and unpacked the chest in silence .
First came a ball dress of pale-yellow satin brocade , made with the trained skirt , `` baby '' waist and full puffed sleeves of a former generation .
Beneath it was a case containing a necklace of small but perfect pearls and a pair of tiny satin slippers .
The rest of the compartment was filled with household linen , fine and costly but yellowed with age -- damask table linen and webs of the uncut fabric .
In the second compartment lay a dress .
Aunt Winnifred lifted it out reverently .
It was a gown of rich silk that had once been white , but now , like the linen , it was yellow with age .
It was simply made and trimmed with cobwebby old lace .
Wrapped around it was a long white bridal veil , redolent with some strange , old-time perfume that had kept its sweetness all through the years .
`` Well , Amy , this is all , '' said Aunt Winnifred with a quiver in her voice .
`` And now for the story .
Where shall I begin ? ''
`` At the very beginning , Aunty .
You see I know nothing at all except her name .
Tell me who she was and why she put her wedding dress away here . ''
`` Poor Eliza ! ''
said Aunt dreamily .
`` It is a sorrowful story , Amy , and it seems so long ago now .
I must be an old woman .
Forty years ago -- and I was only twenty then .
Eliza Laurance was my cousin , the only daughter of Uncle Henry Laurance .
My father -- your grandfather , Amy , you do n't remember him -- had two brothers , each of whom had an only daughter .
Both these girls were called Eliza after your great-grandmother .
I never saw Uncle George 's Eliza but once .
He was a rich man and his daughter was much sought after , but she was no beauty , I promise you that , and proud and vain to the last degree .
Her home was in a distant city and she never came to Wyther Grange .
`` The other Eliza Laurance was a poor man 's daughter .
She and I were of the same age and did not look unlike each other , although I was not so pretty by half .
You can see by the portrait how beautiful she was , and it does her scant justice , for half her charm lay in her arch expression and her vivacious ways .
She had her little faults , of course , and was rather over much given to romance and sentiment .
This did not seem much of a defect to me then , Amy , for I was young and romantic too .
Mother never cared much for Eliza , I think , but everyone else liked her .
One winter Eliza came to Wyther Grange for a long visit .
The Grange was a very lively place then , Amy .
Eliza kept the old house ringing with merriment .
We went out a great deal and she was always the belle of any festivity we attended .
Yet she wore her honours easily ; all the flattery and homage she received did not turn her head .
`` That winter we first met Willis Starr .
He was a newcomer , and nobody knew much about him , but one or two of the best families took him up , and his own fascinations did the rest .
He became what you would call the rage .
He was considered very handsome , his manners were polished and easy , and people said he was rich .
`` I do n't think , Amy , that I ever trusted Willis Starr .
But like all the rest , I was blinded by his charm .
Mother was almost the only one who did not worship at his shrine , and very often she dropped hints about penniless adventurers that made Eliza very indignant .
`` From the first he had paid Eliza marked attention and seemed utterly bewitched by her .
Well , his was an easy winning .
Eliza loved him with her whole impulsive , girlish heart and made no attempt to hide it .
`` I shall never forget the night they were first engaged .
It was Eliza 's birthday , and we were invited to a ball that evening .
This yellow gown is the very one she wore .
I suppose that is why she put it away here -- the gown she wore on the happiest night of her life .
I had never seen her look more beautiful -- her neck and arms were bare , and she wore this string of pearls and carried a bouquet of her favourite white roses .
`` When we reached home after the dance , Eliza had her happy secret to tell us .
She was engaged to Willis Starr , and they were to be married in early spring .
`` Willis Starr certainly seemed to be an ideal lover , and Eliza was so perfectly happy that she seemed to grow more beautiful and radiant every day .
`` Well , Amy , the wedding day was set .
Eliza was to be married from the Grange , as her own mother was dead , and I was to be bridesmaid .
We made her wedding dress together , she and I. Girls were not above making their own gowns then , and not a stitch was set in Eliza 's save those put there by loving fingers and blessed by loving wishes .
It was I who draped the veil over her sunny curls -- see how yellow and creased it is now , but it was as white as snow that day .
`` A week before the wedding , Willis Starr was spending the evening at the Grange .
We were all chattering gaily about the coming event , and in speaking of the invited guests Eliza said something about the other Eliza Laurance , the great heiress , looking archly at Willis over her shoulder as she spoke .
It was some merry badinage about the cousin whose namesake she was but whom she so little resembled .
`` We all laughed , but I shall never forget the look that came over Willis Starr 's face .
It passed quickly , but the chill fear that it gave me remained .
A few minutes later I left the room on some trifling errand , and as I returned through the dim hall I was met by Willis Starr .
He laid his hand on my arm and bent his evil face -- for it was evil then , Amy -- close to mine . ''
` Tell me , ' he said in a low but rude tone , ` is there another Eliza Laurance who is an heiress ? ' ''
` Certainly there is , ' I said sharply .
` She is our cousin and the daughter of our Uncle George .
Our Eliza is not an heiress .
You surely did not suppose she was ! '
`` Willis stepped aside with a mocking smile . '' '
I did -- what wonder ?
I had heard much about the great heiress , Eliza Laurance , and the great beauty , Eliza Laurance .
I supposed they were one and the same .
You have all been careful not to undeceive me . ' ''
` You forget yourself , Mr. Starr , when you speak so to me , ' I retorted coldly .
` You have deceived yourself .
We have never dreamed of allowing anyone to think that Eliza was an heiress .
She is sweet and lovely enough to be loved for her own sake . '
`` I went back to the parlour full of dismay .
Willis Starr remained gloomy and taciturn all the rest of the evening , but nobody seemed to notice it but myself .
`` The next day we were all so busy that I almost forgot the incident of the previous evening .
We girls were up in the sewing room putting the last touches to the wedding gown .
Eliza tried it and her veil on and was standing so , in all her silken splendour , when a letter was brought in .
I guessed by her blush who was the writer .
I laughed and ran downstairs , leaving her to read it .
`` When I returned she was still standing just where I had left her in the middle of the room , holding the letter in her hand .
Her face was as white as her veil , and her wide-open eyes had a dazed , agonized look as of someone who had been stricken a mortal blow .
All the soft happiness and sweetness had gone out of them .
They were the eyes of an old woman , Amy . ''
` Eliza , what is the matter ? '
I said .
` Has anything happened to Willis ? '
`` She made no answer , but walked to the fireplace , dropped the letter in a bed of writhing blue flame and watched it burn to white ashes .
Then she turned to me . ''
` Help me take off this gown , Winnie , ' she said dully . '
I shall never wear it again .
There will be no wedding .
Willis is gone . ' ''
` Gone ! '
I echoed stupidly . ''
` Yes .
I am not the heiress , Winnie .
It was the fortune , not the girl , he loved .
He says he is too poor for us to dream of marrying when I have nothing .
Oh , such a cruel , heartless letter !
Why did he not kill me ?
It would have been so much more merciful !
I loved him so -- I trusted him so !
Oh , Winnie , Winnie , what am I to do ! '
`` There was something terrible in the contrast between her passionate words and her calm face and lifeless voice .
I wanted to call Mother , but she would not let me .
She went away to her own room , trailing along the dark hall in her dress and veil , and locked herself in .
`` Well , I told it all to the others in some fashion .
You can imagine their anger and dismay .
Your father , Amy -- he was a hot-blooded , impetuous , young fellow then -- went at once to seek Willis Starr .
But he was gone , no one knew where , and the whole country rang with the gossip and scandal of the affair .
Eliza knew nothing of this , for she was ill and unconscious for many a day .
In a novel or story she would have died , I suppose , and that would have been the end of it .
But this was in real life , and Eliza did not die , although many times we thought she would .
`` When she did recover , how frightfully changed she was !
It almost broke my heart to see her .
Her very nature seemed to have changed too -- all her joyousness and light-heartedness were dead .
From that time she was a faded , dispirited creature , no more like the Eliza we had known than the merest stranger .
And then after a while came other news -- Willis Starr was married to the other Eliza Laurance , the true heiress .
He had made no second mistake .
We tried to keep it from Eliza but she found it out at last .
That was the day she came up here alone and packed this old chest .
Nobody ever knew just what she put into it .
But you and I see now , Amy -- her ball dress , her wedding gown , her love letters and , more than all else , her youth and happiness -- this old chest was the tomb of it all .
Eliza Laurance was really buried here .
`` She went home soon after .
Before she went she exacted a promise from Mother that the old chest should be left at the Grange unopened until she came for it herself .
But she never came back , and I do not think she ever intended to , and I never saw her again .
`` That is the story of the old chest .
It was all over so long ago -- the heartbreak and the misery -- but it all seems to come back to me now .
Poor Eliza ! ''
My own eyes were full of tears as Aunt Winnifred went down the stairs , leaving me sitting dreamily there in the sunset light , with the old yellowed bridal veil across my lap and the portrait of Eliza Laurance in my hand .
Around me were the relics of her pitiful story -- the old , oft-repeated story of a faithless love and a woman 's broken heart -- the gown she had worn , the slippers in which she had danced light-heartedly at her betrothal ball , her fan , her pearls , her gloves -- and it somehow seemed to me as if I were living in those old years myself , as if the love and happiness , the betrayal and pain were part of my own life .
Presently Aunt Winnifred came back through the twilight shadows .
`` Let us put all these things back in their grave , Amy , '' she said .
`` They are of no use to anyone now .
The linen might be bleached and used , I dare say -- but it would seem like a sacrilege .
It was Mother 's wedding present to Eliza .
And the pearls -- would you care to have them , Amy ? ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' I said with a little shiver .
`` I would never wear them , Aunt Winnifred .
I should feel like a ghost if I did .
Put everything back just as we found it -- only her portrait .
I would like to keep that . ''
Reverently we put gowns and letters and trinkets back into the old blue chest .
Aunt Winnifred closed the lid and turned the key softly .
She bowed her head over it for a minute and then we went together in silence down the shadowy garret stairs of Wyther Grange .
The Osbornes ' Christmas Cousin Myra had come to spend Christmas at `` The Firs , '' and all the junior Osbornes were ready to stand on their heads with delight .
Darby -- whose real name was Charles -- did it , because he was only eight , and at eight you have no dignity to keep up .
The others , being older , could n't .
But the fact of Christmas itself awoke no great enthusiasm in the hearts of the junior Osbornes .
Frank voiced their opinion of it the day after Cousin Myra had arrived .
He was sitting on the table with his hands in his pockets and a cynical sneer on his face .
At least , Frank flattered himself that it was cynical .
He knew that Uncle Edgar was said to wear a cynical sneer , and Frank admired Uncle Edgar very much and imitated him in every possible way .
But to you and me it would have looked just as it did to Cousin Myra -- a very discontented and unbecoming scowl .
`` I 'm awfully glad to see you , Cousin Myra , '' explained Frank carefully , `` and your being here may make some things worth while .
But Christmas is just a bore -- a regular bore . ''
That was what Uncle Edgar called things that did n't interest him , so that Frank felt pretty sure of his word .
Nevertheless , he wondered uncomfortably what made Cousin Myra smile so queerly .
`` Why , how dreadful ! ''
she said brightly .
`` I thought all boys and girls looked upon Christmas as the very best time in the year . ''
`` We do n't , '' said Frank gloomily .
`` It 's just the same old thing year in and year out .
We know just exactly what is going to happen .
We even know pretty well what presents we are going to get .
And Christmas Day itself is always the same .
We 'll get up in the morning , and our stockings will be full of things , and half of them we do n't want .
Then there 's dinner .
It 's always so poky .
And all the uncles and aunts come to dinner -- just the same old crowd , every year , and they say just the same things .
Aunt Desda always says , ` Why , Frankie , how you have grown ! '
She knows I hate to be called Frankie .
And after dinner they 'll sit round and talk the rest of the day , and that 's all .
Yes , I call Christmas a nuisance . ''
`` There is n't a single bit of fun in it , '' said Ida discontentedly .
`` Not a bit ! ''
said the twins , both together , as they always said things .
`` There 's lots of candy , '' said Darby stoutly .
He rather liked Christmas , although he was ashamed to say so before Frank .
Cousin Myra smothered another of those queer smiles .
`` You 've had too much Christmas , you Osbornes , '' she said seriously .
`` It has palled on your taste , as all good things will if you overdo them .
Did you ever try giving Christmas to somebody else ? ''
The Osbornes looked at Cousin Myra doubtfully .
They did n't understand .
`` We always send presents to all our cousins , '' said Frank hesitatingly .
`` That 's a bore , too .
They 've all got so many things already it 's no end of bother to think of something new . ''
`` That is n't what I mean , '' said Cousin Myra .
`` How much Christmas do you suppose those little Rolands down there in the hollow have ?
Or Sammy Abbott with his lame back ?
Or French Joe 's family over the hill ?
If you have too much Christmas , why do n't you give some to them ? ''
The Osbornes looked at each other .
This was a new idea .
`` How could we do it ? ''
asked Ida .
Whereupon they had a consultation .
Cousin Myra explained her plan , and the Osbornes grew enthusiastic over it .
Even Frank forgot that he was supposed to be wearing a cynical sneer .
`` I move we do it , Osbornes , '' said he .
`` If Father and Mother are willing , '' said Ida .
`` Wo n't it be jolly ! ''
exclaimed the twins .
`` Well , rather , '' said Darby scornfully .
He did not mean to be scornful .
He had heard Frank saying the same words in the same tone , and thought it signified approval .
Cousin Myra had a talk with Father and Mother Osborne that night , and found them heartily in sympathy with her plans .
For the next week the Osbornes were agog with excitement and interest .
At first Cousin Myra made the suggestions , but their enthusiasm soon outstripped her , and they thought out things for themselves .
Never did a week pass so quickly .
And the Osbornes had never had such fun , either .
Christmas morning there was not a single present given or received at `` The Firs '' except those which Cousin Myra and Mr. and Mrs. Osborne gave to each other .
The junior Osbornes had asked that the money which their parents had planned to spend in presents for them be given to them the previous week ; and given it was , without a word .
The uncles and aunts arrived in due time , but not with them was the junior Osbornes ' concern .
They were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Osborne .
The junior Osbornes were having a Christmas dinner party of their own .
In the small dining room a table was spread and loaded with good things .
Ida and the twins cooked that dinner all by themselves .
To be sure , Cousin Myra had helped some , and Frank and Darby had stoned all the raisins and helped pull the home-made candy ; and all together they had decorated the small dining room royally with Christmas greens .
Then their guests came .
First , all the little Rolands from the Hollow arrived -- seven in all , with very red , shining faces and not a word to say for themselves , so shy were they .
Then came a troop from French Joe 's -- four black-eyed lads , who never knew what shyness meant .
Frank drove down to the village in the cutter and brought lame Sammy back with him , and soon after the last guest arrived -- little Tillie Mather , who was Miss Rankin 's `` orphan ` sylum girl '' from over the road .
Everybody knew that Miss Rankin never kept Christmas .
She did not believe in it , she said , but she did not prevent Tillie from going to the Osbornes ' dinner party .
Just at first the guests were a little stiff and unsocial ; but they soon got acquainted , and so jolly was Cousin Myra -- who had her dinner with the children in preference to the grown-ups -- and so friendly the junior Osbornes , that all stiffness vanished .
What a merry dinner it was !
What peals of laughter went up , reaching to the big dining room across the hall , where the grown-ups sat in rather solemn state .
And how those guests did eat and frankly enjoy the good things before them !
How nicely they all behaved , even to the French Joes !
Myra had secretly been a little dubious about those four mischievous-looking lads , but their manners were quite flawless .
Mrs. French Joe had been drilling them for three days -- ever since they had been invited to `` de Chrismus dinner at de beeg house . ''
After the merry dinner was over , the junior Osbornes brought in a Christmas tree , loaded with presents .
They had bought them with the money that Mr. and Mrs. Osborne had meant for their own presents , and a splendid assortment they were .
All the French-Joe boys got a pair of skates apiece , and Sammy a set of beautiful books , and Tillie was made supremely happy with a big wax doll .
Every little Roland got just what his or her small heart had been longing for .
Besides , there were nuts and candies galore .
Then Frank hitched up his pony again , but this time into a great pung sleigh , and the junior Osbornes took their guests for a sleigh-drive , chaperoned by Cousin Myra .
It was just dusk when they got back , having driven the Rolands and the French Joes and Sammy and Tillie to their respective homes .
`` This has been the jolliest Christmas I ever spent , '' said Frank , emphatically .
`` I thought we were just going to give the others a good time , but it was they who gave it to us , '' said Ida .
`` Were n't the French Joes jolly ? ''
giggled the twins .
`` Such cute speeches as they would make ! ''
`` Me and Teddy Roland are going to be chums after this , '' announced Darby .
`` He 's an inch taller than me , but I 'm wider . ''
That night Frank and Ida and Cousin Myra had a little talk after the smaller Osbornes had been haled off to bed .
`` We 're not going to stop with Christmas , Cousin Myra , '' said Frank , at the end of it .
`` We 're just going to keep on through the year .
We 've never had such a delightful old Christmas before . ''
`` You 've learned the secret of happiness , '' said Cousin Myra gently .
And the Osbornes understood what she meant .
The Romance of Aunt Beatrice Margaret always maintains that it was a direct inspiration of Providence that took her across the street to see Aunt Beatrice that night .
And Aunt Beatrice believes that it was too .
But the truth of the matter is that Margaret was feeling very unhappy , and went over to talk to Aunt Beatrice as the only alternative to a fit of crying .
Margaret 's unhappiness has nothing further to do with this story , so it may be dismissed with the remark that it did not amount to much , in spite of Margaret 's tragical attitude , and was dissipated at once and forever by the arrival of a certain missent letter the next day .
Aunt Beatrice was alone .
Her brother and his wife had gone to the `` at home '' which Mrs. Cunningham was giving that night in honour of the Honourable John Reynolds , M.P. .
The children were upstairs in bed , and Aunt Beatrice was darning their stockings , a big basketful of which loomed up aggressively on the table beside her .
Or , to speak more correctly , she had been darning them .
Just when Margaret was sliding across the icy street Aunt Beatrice was bent forward in her chair , her hands over her face , while soft , shrinking little sobs shook her from head to foot .
When Margaret 's imperative knock came at the front door , Aunt Beatrice started guiltily and wished earnestly that she had waited until she went to bed before crying , if cry she must .
She knew Margaret 's knock , and she did not want her gay young niece , of all people in the world , to suspect the fact or the cause of her tears .
`` I hope she wo n't notice my eyes , '' she thought , as she hastily plumped a big ugly dark-green shade , with an almond-eyed oriental leering from it , over the lamp , before going out to let Margaret in .
Margaret did not notice at first .
She was too deeply absorbed in her own troubles to think that anyone else in the world could be miserable too .
She curled up in the deep easy-chair by the fire , and clasped her hands behind her curly head with a sigh of physical comfort and mental unhappiness , while Aunt Beatrice , warily sitting with her back to the light , took up her work again .
`` You did n't go to Mrs. Cunningham 's ` at home , ' Auntie , '' said Margaret lazily , feeling that she must make some conversation to justify her appearance .
`` You were invited , were n't you ? ''
Aunt Beatrice nodded .
The hole she was darning in the knee of Willie Hayden 's stocking must be done very carefully .
Mrs. George Hayden was particular about such matters .
Perhaps this was why Aunt Beatrice did not speak .
`` Why did n't you go ? ''
asked Margaret absently , wondering why there had been no letter for her that morning -- and this was the third day too !
Could Gilbert be ill ?
Or was he flirting with some other girl and forgetting her ?
Margaret swallowed a big lump in her throat , and resolved that she would go home next week -- no , she would n't , either -- if he was as hateful and fickle as that -- what was Aunt Beatrice saying ?
`` Well , I 'm -- I 'm not used to going to parties now , my dear .
And the truth is I have no dress fit to wear .
At least Bella said so , because the party was to be a very fashionable affair .
She said my old grey silk would n't do at all .
Of course she knows .
She had to have a new dress for it , and , we could n't both have that .
George could n't afford it these hard times .
And , as Bella said , it would be very foolish of me to get an expensive dress that would be no use to me afterward .
But it does n't matter .
And , of course , somebody had to stay with the children . ''
`` Of course , '' assented Margaret dreamily .
Mrs. Cunningham 's `` at home '' was of no particular interest .
The guests were all middle-aged people whom the M.P. had known in his boyhood and Margaret , in her presumptuous youth , thought it would be a very prosy affair , although it had made quite a sensation in quiet little Murraybridge , where people still called an `` at home '' a party plain and simple .
`` I saw Mr. Reynolds in church Sunday afternoon , '' she went on .
`` He is very fine-looking , I think .
Did you ever meet him ? ''
`` I used to know him very well long ago , '' answered Aunt Beatrice , bowing still lower over her work .
`` He used to live down in Wentworth , you know , and he visited his married sister here very often .
He was only a boy at that time .
Then -- he went out to British Columbia and -- and -- we never heard much more about him . ''
`` He 's very rich and owns dozens of mines and railroads and things like that , '' said Margaret , `` and he 's a member of the Dominion Parliament , too .
They say he 's one of the foremost men in the House and came very near getting a portfolio in the new cabinet .
I like men like that .
They are so interesting .
Would n't it be awfully nice and complimentary to have one of them in love with you ?
Is he married ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know , '' said Aunt Beatrice faintly .
`` I have never heard that he was . ''
`` There , you 've run the needle into your finger , '' said Margaret sympathetically .
`` It 's of no consequence , '' said Aunt Beatrice hastily .
She wiped away the drop of blood and went on with her work .
Margaret watched her dreamily .
What lovely hair Aunt Beatrice had !
It was so thick and glossy , with warm bronze tones where the lamp-light fell on it under that hideous weird old shade .
But Aunt Beatrice wore it in such an unbecoming way .
Margaret idly wondered if she would comb her hair straight back and prim when she was thirty-five .
She thought it very probable if that letter did not come tomorrow .
From Aunt Beatrice 's hair Margaret 's eyes fell to Aunt Beatrice 's face .
She gave a little jump .
Had Aunt Beatrice been crying ?
Margaret sat bolt upright .
`` Aunt Beatrice , did you want to go to that party ? ''
she demanded explosively .
`` Now tell me the truth . ''
`` I did , '' said Aunt Beatrice weakly .
Margaret 's sudden attack fairly startled the truth out of her .
`` It is very silly of me , I know , but I did want to go .
I did n't care about a new dress .
I 'd have been quite willing to wear my grey silk , and I could have fixed the sleeves .
What difference would it have made ?
Nobody would ever have noticed me , but Bella thought it would n't do . ''
She paused long enough to give a little sob which she could not repress .
Margaret made use of the opportunity to exclaim violently , `` It 's a shame ! ''
`` I suppose you do n't understand why I wanted to go to this particular party so much , '' went on Aunt Beatrice shyly .
`` I 'll tell you why -- if you wo n't laugh at me .
I wanted to see John Reynolds -- not to talk to him -- oh , I dare say he would n't remember me -- but just to see him .
Long ago -- fifteen years ago -- we were engaged .
And -- and -- I loved him so much then , Margaret . ''
`` You poor dear ! ''
said Margaret sympathetically .
She reached over and patted her aunt 's hand .
She thought that this little bit of romance , long hidden and unsuspected , blossoming out under her eyes , was charming .
In her interest she quite forgot her own pet grievance .
`` Yes -- and then we quarrelled .
It was a dreadful quarrel and it was about such a trifle .
We parted in anger and he went away .
He never came back .
It was all my fault .
Well , it is all over long ago and everybody has forgotten .
I -- I do n't mind it now .
But I just wanted to see him once more and then come quietly away . ''
`` Aunt Beatrice , you are going to that party yet , '' said Margaret decisively .
`` Oh , it is impossible , my dear . ''
`` No , it is n't .
Nothing is impossible when I make up my mind .
You must go .
I 'll drag you there by main force if it comes to that .
Oh , I have such a jolly plan , Auntie .
You know my black and yellow dinner dress -- no , you do n't either , for I 've never worn it here .
The folks at home all said it was too severe for me -- and so it is .
Nothing suits me but the fluffy , chuffy things with a tilt to them .
Gil -- er -- I mean -- well , yes , Gilbert always declared that dress made me look like a cross between an unwilling nun and a ballet girl , so I took a dislike to it .
But it 's as lovely as a dream .
Oh , when you see it your eyes will stick out .
You must wear it tonight .
It 's just your style , and I 'm sure it will fit you , for our figures are so much alike . ''
`` But it is too late . '' ''
'T is n't .
It 's not more than half an hour since Uncle George and Aunt Bella went .
I 'll have you ready in a twinkling . ''
`` But the fire -- and the children ! ''
`` I 'll stay here and look after both .
I wo n't burn the house down , and if the twins wake up I 'll give them -- what is it you give them -- soothing syrup ?
So go at once and get you ready , while I fly over for the dress .
I 'll fix your hair up when I get back . ''
Margaret was gone before Aunt Beatrice could speak again .
Her niece 's excitement seized hold of her too .
She flung the stockings into the basket and the basket into the closet .
`` I will go -- and I wo n't do another bit of darning tonight .
I hate it -- I hate it -- I hate it !
Oh , how much good it does me to say it ! ''
When Margaret came flying up the stairs Aunt Beatrice was ready save for hair and dress .
Margaret cast the gown on the bed , revealing all its beauty of jetted lace and soft yellow silk with a dextrous sweep of her arm .
Aunt Beatrice gave a little cry of admiration .
`` Is n't it lovely ? ''
demanded Margaret .
`` And I 've brought you my opera cape and my fascinator and my black satin slippers with the cunningest gold buckles , and some sweet pale yellow roses that Uncle Ned gave me yesterday .
Oh , Aunt Beatrice !
What magnificent arms and shoulders you have !
They 're like marble .
Mine are so scrawny I 'm just ashamed to have people know they belong to me . ''
Margaret 's nimble fingers were keeping time with her tongue .
Aunt Beatrice 's hair went up as if by magic into soft puffs and waves and twists , and a golden rose was dropped among the bronze masses .
Then the lovely dress was put on and pinned and looped and pulled until it fell into its simple , classical lines around the tall , curving figure .
Margaret stepped back and clapped her hands admiringly .
`` Oh , Auntie , you 're beautiful !
Now I 'll pop down for the cloak and fascinator .
I left them hanging by the fire . ''
When Margaret had gone Aunt Beatrice caught up the lamp and tiptoed shamefacedly across the hall to the icy-cold spare room .
In the long mirror she saw herself reflected from top to toe -- or was it herself !
Could it be -- that gracious woman with the sweet eyes and flushed cheeks , with rounded arms gleaming through their black laces and the cluster of roses nestling against the warm white flesh of the shoulder ?
`` I do look nice , '' she said aloud , with a little curtsey to the radiant reflection .
`` It is all the dress , I know .
I feel like a queen in it -- no , like a girl again -- and that 's better . ''
Margaret went to Mrs. Cunningham 's door with her .
`` How I wish I could go in and see the sensation you 'll make , Aunt Beatrice , '' she whispered .
`` You dear , silly child !
It 's just the purple and fine linen , '' laughed Aunt Beatrice .
But she did not altogether think so , and she rang the doorbell unquailingly .
In the hall Mrs. Cunningham herself came beamingly to greet her .
`` My dear Beatrice !
I 'm so glad .
Bella said you could not come because you had a headache . ''
`` My headache got quite better after they left , and so I thought I would get ready and come , even if it were rather late , '' said Beatrice glibly , wondering if Sapphira had ever worn a black-and-yellow dress , and if so , might not her historic falsehood be traced to its influence ?
When they came downstairs together , Beatrice , statuesque and erect in her trailing draperies , and Mrs. Cunningham secretly wondering where on earth Beatrice Hayden had got such a magnificent dress and what she had done to herself to make her look as she did -- a man came through the hall .
At the foot of the stairs they met .
He put out his hand .
`` Beatrice !
It must be Beatrice !
How little you have changed ! ''
Mrs. Cunningham was not particularly noted in Murraybridge for her tact , but she had a sudden visitation of the saving grace at that moment , and left the two alone .
Beatrice put her hand into the M.P. 's .
`` I am glad to see you , '' she said simply , looking up at him .
She could not say that he had not changed , for there was little in this tall , broad-shouldered man of the world , with grey glints in his hair , to suggest the slim , boyish young lover whose image she had carried in her heart all the long years .
But the voice , though deeper and mellower , was the same , and the thin , clever mouth that went up at one corner and down at the other in a humorous twist ; and one little curl of reddish hair fell over his forehead away from its orderly fellows , just as it used to when she had loved to poke her fingers through it ; and , more than all , the deep-set grey eyes looking down into her blue ones were unchanged .
Beatrice felt her heart beating to her fingertips .
`` I thought you were not coming , '' he said .
`` I expected to meet you here and I was horribly disappointed .
I thought the bitterness of that foolish old quarrel must be strong enough to sway you yet . ''
`` Did n't Bella tell you I had a headache ? ''
faltered Beatrice .
`` Bella ?
Oh , your brother 's wife !
I was n't talking to her .
I 've been sulking in corners ever since I concluded you were not coming .
How beautiful you are , Beatrice !
You 'll let an old friend say that much , wo n't you ? ''
Beatrice laughed softly .
She had forgotten for years that she was beautiful , but the sweet old knowledge had come back to her again .
She could not help knowing that he spoke the simple truth , but she said mirthfully , `` You 've learned to flatter since the old days , have n't you ?
Do n't you remember you used to tell me I was too thin to be pretty ?
But I suppose a bit of blarney is a necessary ingredient in the composition of an M.P. '' He was still holding her hand .
With a glance of dissatisfaction at the open parlour door , he drew her away to the little room at the end of the hall , which Mrs. Cunningham , for reasons known only to herself , called her library .
`` Come in here with me , '' he said masterfully .
`` I want to have a long talk with you before the other people get hold of you . ''
When Beatrice got home from the party ten minutes before her brother and his wife , Margaret was sitting Turk fashion in the big armchair , with her eyes very wide open and owlish .
`` You dear girlie , were you asleep ? ''
asked Aunt Beatrice indulgently .
Margaret nodded .
`` Yes , and I 've let the fire go out .
I hope you 're not cold .
I must run before Aunt Bella gets here , or she 'll scold .
Had a nice time ? ''
`` Delightful .
You were a dear to lend me this dress .
It was so funny to see Bella staring at it . ''
When Margaret had put on her hat and jacket she went as far as the street door , and then tiptoed back to the sitting-room .
Aunt Beatrice was leaning back in the armchair , with a drooping rose held softly against her lips , gazing dreamily into the dull red embers .
`` Auntie , '' said Margaret contritely , `` I ca n't go home without confessing , although I know it is a heinous offence to interrupt the kind of musing that goes with dying embers and faded roses in the small hours .
But it would weigh on my conscience all night if I did n't .
I was asleep , but I wakened up just before you came in and went to the window .
I did n't mean to spy upon anyone -- but that street was bright as day !
And if you will let an M.P. kiss you on the doorstep in glaring moonlight , you must expect to be seen . ''
`` I would n't have cared if there had been a dozen onlookers , '' said Aunt Beatrice frankly , `` and I do n't believe he would either . ''
Margaret threw up her hands .
`` Well , my conscience is clear , at least .
And remember , Aunt Beatrice , I 'm to be bridesmaid -- I insist upon that .
And , oh , wo n't you ask me to visit you when you go down to Ottawa next winter ?
I 'm told it 's such a jolly place when the House is in session .
And you 'll need somebody to help you entertain , you know .
The wife of a cabinet minister has to do lots of that .
But I forgot -- he is n't a cabinet minister yet .
But he will be , of course .
Promise that you 'll have me , Aunt Beatrice , promise quick .
I hear Uncle George and Aunt Bella coming . ''
Aunt Beatrice promised .
Margaret flew to the door .
`` You 'd better keep that dress , '' she called back softly , as she opened it .
The Running Away of Chester Chester did the chores with unusual vim that night .
His lips were set and there was an air of resolution as plainly visible on his small , freckled face as if it had been stamped there .
Mrs. Elwell saw him flying around , and her grim features took on a still grimmer expression .
`` Ches is mighty lively tonight , '' she muttered .
`` I s ` pose he 's in a gog to be off on some foolishness with Henry Wilson .
Well , he wo n't , and he need n't think it . ''
Lige Barton , the hired man , also thought this was Chester 's purpose , but he took a more lenient view of it than did Mrs. Elwell .
`` The little chap is going through things with a rush this evening , '' he reflected .
`` Guess he 's laying out for a bit of fun with the Wilson boy . ''
But Chester was not planning anything connected with Henry Wilson , who lived on the other side of the pond and was the only chum he possessed .
After the chores were done , he lingered a little while around the barns , getting his courage keyed up to the necessary pitch .
Chester Stephens was an orphan without kith or kin in the world , unless his father 's stepsister , Mrs. Harriet Elwell , could be called so .
His parents had died in his babyhood , and Mrs. Elwell had taken him to bring up .
She was a harsh woman , with a violent temper , and she had scolded and worried the boy all his short life .
Upton people said it was a shame , but nobody felt called upon to interfere .
Mrs. Elwell was not a person one would care to make an enemy of .
She eyed Chester sourly when he went in , expecting some request to be allowed to go with Henry , and prepared to refuse it sharply .
`` Aunt Harriet , '' said Chester suddenly , `` can I go to school this year ?
It begins tomorrow . ''
`` No , '' said Mrs. Elwell , when she had recovered from her surprise at this unexpected question .
`` You 've had schoolin ' in plenty -- more 'n I ever had , and all you 're goin ' to get ! ''
`` But , Aunt Harriet , '' persisted Chester , his face flushed with earnestness , `` I 'm nearly thirteen , and I can barely read and write a little .
The other boys are ever so far ahead of me .
I do n't know anything . ''
`` You know enough to be disrespectful ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. Elwell .
`` I suppose you want to go to school to idle away your time , as you do at home -- lazy good-for-nothing that you are ! ''
Chester thought of the drudgery that had been his portion all his life .
He resented being called lazy when he was willing enough to work , but he made one more appeal .
`` If you 'll let me go to school this year , I 'll work twice as hard out of school to make up for it -- indeed , I will .
Do let me go , Aunt Harriet .
I have n't been to school a day for over a year . ''
`` Let 's hear no more of this nonsense , '' said Mrs. Elwell , taking a bottle from the shelf above her with the air of one who closes a discussion .
`` Here , run down to the Bridge and get me this bottle full of vinegar at Jacob 's store .
Be smart , too , d'ye hear !
I ai n't going to have you idling around the Bridge neither .
If you ai n't back in twenty minutes , it wo n't be well for you . ''
Chester did his errand at the Bridge with a heart full of bitter disappointment and anger .
`` I wo n't stand it any longer ! ''
he muttered .
`` I 'll run away -- I do n't care where , so long as it 's away from her .
I wish I could get out West on the harvest excursions . ''
On his return home , as he crossed the yard in the dusk , he stumbled over a stick of wood and fell .
The bottle of vinegar slipped from his hand and was broken on the doorstep .
Mrs. Elwell saw the accident from the window .
She rushed out and jerked the unlucky lad to his feet .
`` Take that , you sulky little cub ! ''
she exclaimed , cuffing his ears soundly .
`` I 'll teach you to break and spill things you 're sent for !
You did it on purpose .
Get off to bed with you this instant . ''
Chester crept off to his garret chamber with a very sullen face .
He was too used to being sent to bed without any supper to care much for that , although he was hungry .
But his whole being was in a tumult of rebellion over the injustice that was meted out to him .
`` I wo n't stand it ! ''
he muttered over and over again .
`` I 'll run away .
I wo n't stay here . ''
To talk of running away was one thing .
To do it without a cent in your pocket or a place to run to was another .
But Chester had a great deal of determination in his make-up when it was fairly roused , and his hard upbringing had made him older and shrewder than his years .
He lay awake late that night , thinking out ways and means , but could arrive at no satisfactory conclusion .
The next day Mrs. Elwell said , `` Ches , Abner Stearns wants you to go up there for a fortnight while Tom Bixby is away , and drive the milk wagon of mornings and do the chores for Mrs. Stearns .
You might as well put in the time ` fore harvest that way as any other .
So hustle off -- and mind you behave yourself . ''
Chester heard the news gladly .
He had not yet devised any feasible plan for running away , and he always liked to work at the Stearns ' place .
To be sure , Mrs. Elwell received all the money he earned , but Mrs. Stearns was kind to him , and though he had to work hard and constantly , he was well fed and well treated by all .
The following fortnight was a comparatively happy one for the lad .
But he did not forget his purpose of shaking the dust of Upton from his feet as soon as possible , and he cudgelled his brains trying to find a way .
On the evening when he left the Stearns ' homestead , Mr. Stearns paid him for his fortnight 's work , much to the boy 's surprise , for Mrs. Elwell had always insisted that all such money should be paid directly to her .
Chester found himself the possessor of four dollars -- an amount of riches that almost took away his breath .
He had never in his whole life owned more than ten cents at a time .
As he tramped along the road home , he kept his hand in his pocket , holding fast to the money , as if he feared it would otherwise dissolve into thin air .
His mind was firmly made up .
He would run away once and for all .
This money was rightly his ; he had earned every cent of it .
It would surely last him until he found employment elsewhere .
At any rate , he would go ; and even if he starved , he would never come back to Aunt Harriet 's !
When he reached home , he found Mrs. Elwell in an unusual state of worry .
Lige had given warning -- and this on the verge of harvest !
`` Did Stearns say anything about coming down tomorrow to pay me for your work ? ''
she asked .
`` No , ma'am .
He did n't say a word about it , '' said Chester boldly .
`` Well , I hope he will .
Take yourself off to bed , Ches .
I 'm sick of seeing you standing there , on one foot or t ` other , like a gander . ''
Chester had been shifting about uneasily .
He realized that , if his project did not miscarry , he would not see his aunt again , and his heart softened to her .
Harsh as she was , she was the only protector he had ever known , and the boy had a vague wish to carry away with him some kindly word or look from her .
Such , however , was not forthcoming , and Chester obeyed her command and took himself off to the garret .
Here he sat down and reflected on his plans .
He must go that very night .
When Mr. Stearns failed to appear on the morrow , Mrs. Elwell was quite likely to march up and demand the amount of Chester 's wages .
It would all come out then , and he would lose his money -- besides , no doubt , getting severely punished into the bargain .
His preparations did not take long .
He had nothing to carry with him .
The only decent suit of clothes he possessed was his well-worn Sunday one .
This he put on , carefully stowing away in his pocket the precious four dollars .
He had to wait until he thought his aunt was asleep , and it was about eleven when he crept downstairs , his heart quaking within him , and got out by the porch window .
When he found himself alone in the clear moonlight of the August night , a sense of elation filled his cramped little heart .
He was free , and he would never come back here -- never !
`` Wisht I could have seen Henry to say good-by to him , though , '' he muttered with a wistful glance at the big house across the pond where the unconscious Henry was sleeping soundly with never a thought of moonlight flittings for anyone in his curly head .
Chester meant to walk to Roxbury Station ten miles away .
Nobody knew him there , and he could catch the morning train .
Late as it was , he kept to fields and wood-roads lest he might be seen and recognized .
It was three o'clock when he reached Roxbury , and he knew the train did not pass through until six .
With the serenity of a philosopher who is starting out to win his way in the world and means to make the best of things , Chester curled himself up in the hollow space of a big lumber pile behind the station , and so tired was he that he fell soundly asleep in a few minutes .
* * * * * Chester was awakened by the shriek of the express at the last crossing before the station .
In a panic of haste he scrambled out of his lumber and dashed into the station house , where a sleepy , ill-natured agent stood behind the ticket window .
He looked sharply enough at the freckled , square-jawed boy who asked for a second-class ticket to Belltown .
Chester 's heart quaked within him at the momentary thought that the ticket agent recognized him .
He had an agonized vision of being collared without ceremony and haled straightway back to Aunt Harriet .
When the ticket and his change were pushed out to him , he snatched them and fairly ran .
`` Bolted as if the police were after him , '' reflected the agent , who did not sell many tickets and so had time to take a personal interest in the purchasers thereof .
`` I 've seen that youngster before , though I ca n't recollect where .
He 's got a most fearful determined look . ''
Chester drew an audible sigh of relief when the train left the station .
He was fairly off now and felt that he could defy even curious railway officials .
It was not his first train ride , for Mrs. Elwell had once taken him to Belltown to get an aching tooth extracted , but it was certainly his first under such exhilarating circumstances , and he meant to enjoy it .
To be sure , he was very hungry , but that , he reflected , was only what he would probably be many times before he made his fortune , and it was just as well to get used to it .
Meanwhile , it behooved him to keep his eyes open .
On the road from Roxbury to Belltown there was not much to be seen that morning that Chester did not see .
The train reached Belltown about noon .
He did not mean to stop long there -- it was too near Upton .
From the conductor on the train , he found that a boat left Belltown for Montrose at two in the afternoon .
Montrose was a hundred miles from Upton , and Chester thought he would be safe there .
To Montrose , accordingly , he decided to go , but the first thing was to get some dinner .
He went into a grocery store and bought some crackers and a bit of cheese .
He had somewhere picked up the idea that crackers and cheese were about as economical food as you could find for adventurous youths starting out on small capital .
He found his way to the only public square Belltown boasted , and munched his food hungrily on a bench under the trees .
He would go to Montrose and there find something to do .
Later on he would gradually work his way out West , where there was more room for an ambitious small boy to expand and grow .
Chester dreamed some dazzling dreams as he sat there on the bench under the Belltown chestnuts .
Passers-by , if they noticed him at all , saw merely a rather small , poorly clad boy , with a great many freckles , a square jaw and shrewd , level-gazing grey eyes .
But this same lad was mapping out a very brilliant future for himself as people passed him heedlessly by .
He would get out West , somehow or other , some time or other , and make a fortune .
Then , perhaps , he would go back to Upton for a visit and shine in his splendour before all his old neighbours .
It all seemed very easy and alluring , sitting there in the quiet little Belltown square .
Chester , you see , possessed imagination .
That , together with the crackers and cheese , so cheered him up that he felt ready for anything .
He was aroused from a dream of passing Aunt Harriet by in lofty scorn and a glittering carriage , by the shrill whistle of the boat .
Chester pocketed his remaining crackers and cheese and his visions also , and was once more his alert , wide-awake self .
He had inquired the way to the wharf from the grocer , so he found no difficulty in reaching it .
When the boat steamed down the muddy little river , Chester was on board of her .
He was glad to be out of Belltown , for he was anything but sure that he would not encounter some Upton people as long as he was in it .
They often went to Belltown on business , but never to Montrose .
There were not many passengers on the boat , and Chester scrutinized them all so sharply in turn that he could have sworn to each and every one of them for years afterwards had it been necessary .
The one he liked best was a middle-aged lady who sat just before him on the opposite side of the deck She was plump and motherly looking , with a fresh , rosy face and beaming blue eyes .
`` If I was looking for anyone to adopt me I 'd pick her , '' said Chester to himself .
The more he looked at her , the better he liked her .
He labelled her in his mind as `` the nice , rosy lady . ''
The nice , rosy lady noticed Chester staring at her after awhile .
She smiled promptly at him -- a smile that seemed fairly to irradiate her round face -- and then began fumbling in an old-fashioned reticule she carried , and from which she presently extracted a chubby little paper bag .
`` If you like candy , little boy , '' she said to Chester , `` here is some of my sugar taffy for you . ''
Chester did not exactly like being called a little boy .
But her voice and smile were irresistible and won his heart straightway .
He took the candy with a shy , `` Thank you , ma'am , '' and sat holding it in his hand .
`` Eat it , '' commanded the rosy lady authoritatively .
`` That is what taffy is for , you know . ''
So Chester ate it .
It was the most delicious thing he had ever tasted in his life , and filled a void which even the crackers and cheese had left vacant .
The rosy lady watched every mouthful he ate as if she enjoyed it more than he did .
When he had finished the taffy she smiled one of her sociable smiles again and said , `` Well , what do you think of it ? ''
`` It 's the nicest taffy I ever ate , '' answered Chester enthusiastically , as if he were a connoisseur in all kinds of taffies .
The rosy lady nodded , well pleased .
`` That is just what everyone says about my sugar taffy .
Nobody up our way can match it , though goodness knows they try hard enough .
My great-grandmother invented the recipe herself , and it has been in our family ever since .
I 'm real glad you liked it . ''
She smiled at him again , as if his appreciation of her taffy was a bond of good fellowship between them .
She did not know it but , nevertheless , she was filling the heart of a desperate small boy , who had run away from home , with hope and encouragement and self-reliance .
If there were such kind folks as this in the world , why , he would get along all right .
The rosy lady 's smiles and taffy -- the smiles much more than the taffy -- went far to thaw out of him a certain hardness and resentfulness against people in general that Aunt Harriet 's harsh treatment had instilled into him .
Chester instantly made a resolve that when he grew stout and rosy and prosperous he would dispense smiles and taffy and good cheer generally to all forlorn small boys on boats and trains .
It was almost dark when they reached Montrose .
Chester lost sight of the rosy lady when they left the boat , and it gave him a lonesome feeling ; but he could not indulge in that for long at a time .
Here he was at his destination -- at dark , in a strange city a hundred miles from home .
`` The first thing is to find somewhere to sleep , '' he said to himself , resolutely declining to feel frightened , although the temptation was very strong .
Montrose was not really a very big place .
It was only a bustling little town of some twenty thousand inhabitants , but to Chester 's eyes it was a vast metropolis .
He had never been in any place bigger than Belltown , and in Belltown you could see one end of it , at least , no matter where you were .
Montrose seemed endless to Chester as he stood at the head of Water Street and gazed in bewilderment along one of its main business avenues -- a big , glittering , whirling place where one small boy could so easily be swallowed up that he would never be heard of again .
Chester , after paying his fare to Montrose and buying his cheese and crackers , had just sixty cents left .
This must last him until he found work , so that the luxury of lodgings was out of the question , even if he had known where to look for them .
To be sure , there were benches in a public square right in front of him ; but Chester was afraid that if he curled up on one of them for the night , a policeman might question him , and he did not believe he could give a very satisfactory account of himself .
In his perplexity , he thought of his cosy lumber pile at Roxbury Station and remembered that when he had left the boat he had noticed a large vacant lot near the wharf which was filled with piles of lumber .
Back to this he went and soon succeeded in finding a place to stow himself .
His last waking thought was that he must be up and doing bright and early the next morning , and that it must surely be longer than twenty-four hours since he had crept downstairs and out of Aunt Harriet 's porch window at Upton .
* * * * * Montrose seemed less alarming by daylight , which was not so bewildering as the blinking electric lights .
Chester was up betimes , ate the last of his cheese and crackers and started out at once to look for work .
He determined to be thorough , and he went straight into every place of business he came to , from a blacksmith 's forge to a department store , and boldly asked the first person he met if they wanted a boy there .
There was , however , one class of places Chester shunned determinedly .
He never went into a liquor saloon .
The last winter he had been allowed to go to school in Upton , his teacher had been a pale , patient little woman who hated the liquor traffic with all her heart .
She herself had suffered bitterly through it , and she instilled into her pupils a thorough aversion to it .
Chester would have chosen death by starvation before he would have sought for employment in a liquor saloon .
But there certainly did not seem room for him anywhere else .
Nobody wanted a boy .
The answer to his question was invariably `` No . ''
As the day wore on , Chester 's hopes and courage went down to zero , but he still tramped doggedly about .
He would be thorough , at least .
Surely somewhere in this big place , where everyone seemed so busy , there must be something for him to do .
Once there seemed a chance of success .
He had gone into a big provision store and asked the clerk behind the counter if they wanted a boy .
`` Well , we do , '' said the clerk , looking him over critically , `` but I hardly think you 'll fill the bill .
However , come in and see the boss . ''
He took Chester into a dark , grimy little inner office where a fat , stubby man was sitting before a desk with his feet upon it .
`` Hey ?
What ! ''
he said when the clerk explained .
`` Looking for the place ?
Why , sonny , you 're not half big enough . ''
`` Oh , I 'm a great deal bigger than I look , '' cried Chester breathlessly .
`` That is , sir -- I mean I 'm ever so much stronger than I look .
I 'll work hard , sir , ever so hard -- and I 'll grow . ''
The fat , stubby man roared with laughter .
What was grim earnest to poor Chester was a joke to him .
`` No doubt you will , my boy , '' he said genially , `` but I 'm afraid you 'll hardly grow fast enough to suit us .
Boys are n't like pigweed , you know .
No , no , our boy must be a big , strapping fellow of eighteen or nineteen .
He 'll have a deal of heavy lifting to do . ''
Chester went out of the store with a queer choking in his throat .
For one horrible moment he thought he was going to cry -- he , Chester Stephens , who had run away from home to do splendid things !
A nice ending that would be to his fine dreams !
He thrust his hands into his pockets and strode along the street , biting his lips fiercely .
He would not cry -- no , he would not !
And he would find work !
Chester did not cry , but neither , alas , did he find work .
He parted with ten cents of his precious hoard for more crackers , and he spend the night again in the lumber yard .
Perhaps I 'll have better luck tomorrow , he thought hopefully .
But it really seemed as if there were to be no luck for Chester except bad luck .
Day after day passed and , although he tramped resolutely from street to street and visited every place that seemed to offer any chance , he could get no employment .
In spite of his pluck , his heart began to fail him .
At the end of a week Chester woke up among his lumber to a realization that he was at the end of his resources .
He had just five cents left out of the four dollars that were to have been the key to his fortune .
He sat gloomily on the wall of his sleeping apartment and munched the one solitary cracker he had left .
It must carry him through the day unless he got work .
The five cents must be kept for some dire emergency .
He started uptown rather aimlessly .
In his week 's wanderings he had come to know the city very well and no longer felt confused with its size and bustle .
He envied every busy boy he saw .
Back in Upton he had sometimes resented the fact that he was kept working continually and was seldom allowed an hour off .
Now he was burdened with spare time .
It certainly did not seem as if things were fairly divided , he thought .
And then he thought no more just then , for one of the queer spells in his head came on .
He had experienced them at intervals during the last three days .
Something seemed to break loose in his head and spin wildly round and round , while houses and people and trees danced and wobbled all about him .
Chester vaguely wondered if this could be what Aunt Harriet had been wont to call a `` judgement . ''
But then , he had done nothing very bad -- nothing that would warrant a judgement , he thought .
It was surely no harm to run away from a place where you were treated so bad and where they did not seem to want you .
Chester felt bitter whenever he thought of Aunt Harriet .
Presently he found himself in the market square of Montrose .
It was market day , and the place was thronged with people from the surrounding country settlements .
Chester had hoped that he might pick up a few cents , holding a horse or cow for somebody or carrying a market basket , but no such chance offered itself .
He climbed up on some bales of pressed hay in one corner and sat there moodily ; there was dejection in the very dangle of his legs over the bales .
Chester , you see , was discovering what many a boy before him has discovered -- that it is a good deal easier to sit down and make a fortune in dreams than it is to go out into the world and make it .
Two men were talking to each other near him .
At first Chester gave no heed to their conversation , but presently a sentence made him prick up his ears .
`` Yes , there 's a pretty fair crop out at Hopedale , '' one man was saying , `` but whether it 's going to be got in in good shape is another matter .
It 's terrible hard to get any help .
Every spare man-jack far and wide has gone West on them everlasting harvest excursions .
Salome Whitney at the Mount Hope Farm is in a predicament .
She 's got a hired man , but he ca n't harvest grain all by himself .
She spent the whole of yesterday driving around , trying to get a couple of men or boys to help him , but I dunno if she got anyone or not . ''
The men moved out of earshot at this juncture , but Chester got down from the bales with a determined look .
If workers were wanted in Hopedale , that was the place for him .
He had done a man 's work at harvest time in Upton the year before .
Lige Barton had said so himself .
Hope and courage returned with a rush .
He accosted the first man he met and asked if he could tell him the way to Hopedale .
`` Reckon I can , sonny .
I live in the next district .
Want to go there ?
If you wait till evening , I can give you a lift part of the way .
It 's five miles out . ''
`` Thank you , sir , '' said Chester firmly , `` but I must go at once if you 'll kindly direct me .
It 's important . ''
`` Well , it 's a straight road .
That 's Albemarle Street down there -- follow it till it takes you out to the country , and then keep straight on till you come to a church painted yellow and white .
Turn to your right , and over the hill is Hopedale .
But you 'd better wait for me .
You do n't look fit to walk five miles . ''
But Chester was off .
Walk five miles !
Pooh !
He could walk twenty with hope to lure him on .
Albemarle Street finally frayed off into a real country road .
Chester was glad to find himself out in the country once more , with the great golden fields basking on either side and the wooded hills beyond , purple with haze .
He had grown to hate the town with its cold , unheeding faces .
It was good to breathe clear air again and feel the soft , springy soil of the ferny roadside under his tired little feet .
Long before the five miles were covered , Chester began to wonder if he would hold out to the end of them .
He had to stop and rest frequently , when those queer dizzy spells came on .
His feet seemed like lead .
But he kept doggedly on .
He would not give in now !
The white and yellow church was the most welcome sight that had ever met his eyes .
Over the hill he met a man and inquired the way to Mount Hope Farm .
Fortunately , it was nearby .
At the gate Chester had to stop again to recover from his dizziness .
He liked the look of the place , with its great , comfortable barns and quaint , roomy old farmhouse , all set down in a trim quadrangle of beeches and orchards .
There was an appearance of peace and prosperity about it .
If only Miss Salome Whitney will hire me !
thought Chester wistfully , as he crept up the slope .
I 'm afraid she 'll say I 'm too small .
Wisht I could stretch three inches all at once .
Wisht I was n't so dizzy .
Wisht -- What Chester 's third wish was will never be known , for just as he reached the kitchen door the worst dizzy spell of all came on .
Trees , barns , well-sweep , all whirled around him with the speed of wind .
He reeled and fell , a limp , helpless little body , on Miss Salome Whitney 's broad , spotless sandstone doorstep .
* * * * * In the Mount Hope kitchen Miss Salome was at that moment deep in discussion with her `` help '' over the weighty question of how the damsons were to be preserved .
Miss Salome wanted them boiled ; Clemantiny Bosworth , the help , insisted that they ought to be baked .
Clemantiny was always very positive .
She had `` bossed '' Miss Salome for years , and both knew that in the end the damsons would be baked , but the argument had to be carried out for dignity 's sake .
`` They 're so sour when they 're baked , '' protested Miss Salome .
`` Well , you do n't want damsons sweet , do you ? ''
retorted Clemantiny scornfully .
`` That 's the beauty of damsons -- their tartness .
And they keep ever so much better baked , Salome -- you know they do .
My grandmother always baked hers , and they would keep for three years . ''
Miss Salome knew that when Clemantiny dragged her grandmother into the question , it was time to surrender .
Beyond that , dignity degenerated into stubbornness .
It would be useless to say that she did not want to keep her damsons for three years , and that she was content to eat them up and trust to Providence for the next year 's supply .
`` Well , well , bake them then , '' she said placidly .
`` I do n't suppose it makes much difference one way or another .
Only , I insist -- what was that noise , Clemantiny ?
It sounded like something falling against the porch door . ''
`` It 's that worthless dog of Martin 's , I suppose , '' said Clemantiny , grasping a broom handle with a grimness that boded ill for the dog .
`` Mussing up my clean doorstep with his dirty paws again .
I 'll fix him ! ''
Clemantiny swept out through the porch and jerked open the door .
There was a moment 's silence .
Then Miss Salome heard her say , `` For the land 's sake !
Salome Whitney , come here . ''
What Miss Salome saw when she hurried out was a white-faced boy stretched on the doorstep at Clemantiny 's feet .
`` Is he dead ? ''
she gasped .
`` Dead ?
No , '' sniffed Clemantiny .
`` He 's fainted , that 's what he is .
Where on earth did he come from ?
He ai n't a Hopedale boy . ''
`` He must be carried right in , '' exclaimed Miss Salome in distress .
`` Why , he may die there .
He must be very ill . ''
`` Looks more to me as if he had fainted from sheer starvation , '' returned Clemantiny brusquely as she picked him up in her lean , muscular arms .
`` Why , he 's skin and bone .
He ai n't hardly heavier than a baby .
Well , this is a mysterious piece of work .
Where 'll I put him ? ''
`` Lay him on the sofa , '' said Miss Salome as soon as she had recovered from the horror into which Clemantiny 's starvation dictum had thrown her .
A child starving to death on her doorstep !
`` What do you do for people in a faint , Clemantiny ? ''
`` Wet their face -- and hist up their feet -- and loosen their collar , '' said Clemantiny in a succession of jerks , doing each thing as she mentioned it .
`` And hold ammonia to their nose .
Run for the ammonia , Salome .
Look , will you ?
Skin and bone ! ''
But Miss Salome had gone for the ammonia .
There was a look on the boy 's thin , pallid face that tugged painfully at her heart-strings .
When Chester came back to consciousness with the pungency of the ammonia reeking through his head , he found himself lying on very soft pillows in a very big white sunny kitchen , where everything was scoured to a brightness that dazzled you .
Bending over him was a tall , gaunt woman with a thin , determined face and snapping black eyes , and , standing beside her with a steaming bowl in her hand , was the nice rosy lady who had given him the taffy on the boat !
When he opened his eyes , Miss Salome knew him .
`` Why , it 's the little boy I saw on the boat ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` Well , you 've come to ! ''
said Clemantiny , eyeing Chester severely .
`` And now perhaps you 'll explain what you mean by fainting away on doorsteps and scaring people out of their senses . ''
Chester thought that this must be the mistress of Mount Hope Farm , and hastened to propitiate her .
`` I 'm sorry , '' he faltered feebly .
`` I did n't mean to -- I -- '' `` You 're not to do any talking until you 've had something to eat , '' snapped Clemantiny inconsistently .
`` Here , open your mouth and take this broth .
Pretty doings , I say ! ''
Clemantiny spoke as sharply as Aunt Harriet had ever done , but somehow or other Chester did not feel afraid of her and her black eyes .
She sat down by his side and fed him from the bowl of hot broth with a deft gentleness oddly in contrast with her grim expression .
Chester thought he had never in all his life tasted anything so good as that broth .
The boy was really almost starved .
He drank every drop of it .
Clemantiny gave a grunt of satisfaction as she handed the empty bowl and spoon to the silent , smiling Miss Salome .
`` Now , who are you and what do you want ? ''
she said .
Chester had been expecting this question , and while coming along the Hopedale road he had thought out an answer to it .
He began now , speaking the words slowly and gaspingly , as if reciting a hastily learned lesson .
`` My name is Chester Benson .
I belong to Upton up the country .
My folks are dead and I came to Montrose to look for work , I 've been there a week and could n't get anything to do .
I heard a man say that you wanted men to help in the harvest , so I came out to see if you 'd hire me . ''
In spite of his weakness , Chester 's face turned very red before he got to the end of his speech .
He was new to deception .
To be sure , there was not , strictly speaking , an untrue word in it .
As for his name , it was Chester Benson Stephens .
But for all that , Chester could not have felt or looked more guilty if he had been telling an out-and-out falsehood at every breath .
`` Humph ! ''
said Clemantiny in a dissatisfied tone .
`` What on earth do you suppose a midget like you can do in the harvest field ?
And we do n't want any more help , anyway .
We 've got enough . ''
Chester grew sick with disappointment .
But at this moment Miss Salome spoke up .
`` No , we have n't , Clemantiny .
We want another hand , and I 'll hire you , Chester -- that 's your name , is n't it ?
I 'll give you good wages , too . ''
`` Now , Salome ! ''
protested Clemantiny .
But Miss Salome only said , `` I 've made up my mind , Clemantiny . ''
Clemantiny knew that when Miss Salome did make up her mind and announced it in that very quiet , very unmistakable tone , she was mistress of the situation and intended to remain so .
`` Oh , very well , '' she retorted .
`` You 'll please yourself , Salome , of course .
I think it would be wiser to wait until you found out a little more about him . ''
`` And have him starving on people 's doorsteps in the meantime ? ''
questioned Miss Salome severely .
`` Well , '' returned Clemantiny with the air of one who washes her hands of a doubtful proposition , `` do n't blame me if you repent of it . ''
By this time Chester had grasped the wonderful fact that his troubles were ended -- for a while , at least .
He raised himself up on one arm and looked gratefully at Miss Salome .
`` Thank you , '' he said .
`` I 'll work hard .
I 'm used to doing a lot . ''
`` There , there ! ''
said Miss Salome , patting his shoulder gently .
`` Lie down and rest .
Dinner will be ready soon , and I guess you 'll be ready for it . ''
To Clemantiny she added in a low , gentle tone , `` There 's a look on his face that reminded me of Johnny .
It came out so strong when he sat up just now that it made me feel like crying .
Do n't you notice it , Clemantiny ? ''
`` Ca n't say that I do , '' replied that energetic person , who was flying about the kitchen with a speed that made Chester 's head dizzy trying to follow her with his eyes .
`` All I can see is freckles and bones -- but if you 're satisfied , I am .
For law 's sake , do n't fluster me , Salome .
There 's a hundred and one things to be done out of hand .
This frolic has clean dundered the whole forenoon 's work . ''
After dinner Chester decided that it was time to make himself useful .
`` Ca n't I go right to work now ? ''
he asked .
`` We do n't begin harvest till tomorrow , '' said Miss Salome .
`` You 'd better rest this afternoon . ''
`` Oh , I 'm all right now , '' insisted Chester .
`` I feel fine .
Please give me something to do . ''
`` You can go out and cut me some wood for my afternoon 's baking , '' said Clemantiny .
`` And see you cut it short enough .
Any other boy that 's tried always gets it about two inches too long . ''
When he had gone out , she said scornfully to Miss Salome , `` Well , what do you expect that size to accomplish in a harvest field , Salome Whitney ? ''
`` Not very much , perhaps , '' said Miss Salome mildly .
`` But what could I do ?
You would n't have me turn the child adrift on the world again , would you , Clemantiny ? ''
Clemantiny did not choose to answer this appeal .
She rattled her dishes noisily into the dishpan .
`` Well , where are you going to put him to sleep ? ''
she demanded .
`` The hands you 've got will fill the kitchen chamber .
There 's only the spare room left .
You 'll hardly put him there , I suppose ?
Your philanthropy will hardly lead you as far as that . ''
When Clemantiny employed big words and sarcasm at the same time , the effect was tremendous .
But Miss Salome did n't wilt .
`` What makes you so prejudiced against him ? ''
she asked curiously .
`` I 'm not prejudiced against him .
But that story about himself did n't ring true .
I worked in Upton years ago , and there were n't any Bensons there then .
There 's more behind that he has n't told .
I 'd find out what it was before I took him into my house , that 's all .
But I 'm not prejudiced . ''
`` Well , well , '' said Miss Salome soothingly , `` we must do the best we can for him .
It 's a sort of duty .
And as for a room for him -- why , I 'll put him in Johnny 's . ''
Clemantiny opened her mouth and shut it again .
She understood that it would be a waste of breath to say anything more .
If Miss Salome had made up her mind to put this freckled , determined-looking waif , dropped on her doorstep from heaven knew where , into Johnny 's room , that was an end of the matter .
`` But I 'll not be surprised at anything after this , '' she muttered as she carried her dishes into the pantry .
`` First a skinny little urchin goes and faints on her doorstep .
Then she hires him and puts him in Johnny 's room .
Johnny 's room !
Salome Whitney , what do you mean ? ''
Perhaps Miss Salome hardly knew what she meant .
But somehow her heart went out warmly to this boy .
In spite of Clemantiny 's sniffs , she held to the opinion that he looked like Johnny .
Johnny was a little nephew of hers .
She had taken him to bring up when his parents died , and she had loved him very dearly .
He had died four years ago , and since that time the little front room over the front porch had never been occupied .
It was just as Johnny had left it .
Beyond keeping it scrupulously clean , Miss Salome never allowed it to be disturbed .
And now a somewhat ragged lad from nowhere was to be put into it !
No wonder Clemantiny shook her head when Miss Salome went up to air it .
* * * * * Even Clemantiny had to admit that Chester was willing to work .
He split wood until she called him to stop .
Then he carried in the wood-box full , and piled it so neatly that even the grim handmaiden was pleased .
After that , she sent him to the garden to pick the early beans .
In the evening he milked three cows and did all the chores , falling into the ways of the place with a deft adaptability that went far to soften Clemantiny 's heart .
`` He 's been taught to work somewheres , '' she admitted grudgingly , `` and he 's real polite and respectful .
But he looks too cute by half .
And his name is n't Benson any more than mine .
When I called him ` Chester Benson ' out there in the cow-yard , he stared at me fer half a minute ` sif I 'd called him Nebuchadnezzar . ''
When bedtime came , Miss Salome took Chester up to a room whose whiteness and daintiness quite took away the breath of a lad who had been used to sleeping in garrets or hired men 's kitchen chambers all his life .
Later on Miss Salome came in to see if he was comfortable , and stood , with her candle in her hand , looking down very kindly at the thin , shrewd little face on the pillow .
`` I hope you 'll sleep real well here , Chester , '' she said .
`` I had a little boy once who used to sleep here .
You -- you look like him .
Good night . ''
She bent over him and kissed his forehead .
Chester had never been kissed by anyone before , so far as he could remember .
Something came up in his throat that felt about as big as a pumpkin .
At the same moment he wished he could have told Miss Salome the whole truth about himself .
I might tell her in the morning , he thought , as he watched her figure passing out of the little porch chamber .
But on second thought he decided that this would never do .
He felt sure she would disapprove of his running away , and would probably insist upon his going straight back to Upton or , at least , informing Aunt Harriet of his whereabouts .
No , he could not tell her .
Clemantiny was an early riser , but when she came into the kitchen the next morning the fire was already made and Chester was out in the yard with three of the five cows milked .
`` Humph ! ''
said Clemantiny amiably .
`` New brooms sweep clean . ''
But she gave him cream with his porridge that morning .
Generally , all Miss Salome 's hired hands got from Clemantiny was skim milk .
Miss Salome 's regular hired man lived in a little house down in the hollow .
He soon turned up , and the other two men she had hired for harvest also arrived .
Martin , the man , looked Chester over quizzically .
`` What do you think you can do , sonny ? ''
`` Anything , '' said Chester sturdily .
`` I 'm used to work . ''
`` He 's right , '' whispered Clemantiny aside .
`` He 's smart as a steel trap .
But just you keep an eye on him all the same , Martin . ''
Chester soon proved his mettle in the harvest field .
In the brisk three weeks that followed , even Clemantiny had to admit that he earned every cent of his wages .
His active feet were untiring and his wiry arms could pitch and stock with the best .
When the day 's work was ended , he brought in wood and water for Clemantiny , helped milk the cows , gathered the eggs , and made on his own responsibility a round of barns and outhouses to make sure that everything was snug and tight for the night .
`` Freckles-and-Bones has been well trained somewhere , '' said Clemantiny again .
It was hardly fair to put the bones in now , for Chester was growing plump and hearty .
He had never been so happy in his life .
Upton drudgery and that dreadful week in Montrose seemed like a bad dream .
Here , in the golden meadows of Mount Hope Farm , he worked with a right good will .
The men liked him , and he soon became a favourite with them .
Even Clemantiny relented somewhat .
To be sure , she continued very grim , and still threw her words at him as if they were so many missiles warranted to strike home .
But Chester soon learned that Clemantiny 's bark was worse than her bite .
She was really very good to him and fed him lavishly .
But she declared that this was only to put some flesh on him .
`` It offends me to see bones sticking through anybody 's skin like that .
We are n't used to such objects at Mount Hope Farm , thank goodness .
Yes , you may smile , Salome .
I like him well enough , and I 'll admit that he knows how to make himself useful , but I do n't trust him any more than ever I did .
He 's mighty close about his past life .
You ca n't get any more out of him than juice out of a post .
I 've tried , and I know . ''
But it was Miss Salome who had won Chester 's whole heart .
He had never loved anybody in his hard little life before .
He loved her with an almost dog-like devotion .
He forgot that he was working to earn money -- and make his fortune .
He worked to please Miss Salome .
She was good and kind and gentle to him , and his starved heart thawed and expanded in the sunshine of her atmosphere .
She went to the little porch room every night to kiss him good night .
Chester would have been bitterly disappointed if she had failed to go .
She was greatly shocked to find out that he had never said his prayers before going to bed .
She insisted on teaching him the simple little one she had used herself when a child .
When Chester found that it would please her , he said it every night .
There was nothing he would not have done for Miss Salome .
She talked a good deal to him about Johnny and she gave him the jack-knife that Johnny had owned .
`` It belonged to a good , manly little boy once , '' she said , `` and now I hope it belongs to another such . ''
`` I ai n't very good , '' said Chester repentantly , `` but I 'll try to be , Miss Salome -- honest , I will . ''
One day he heard Miss Salome speaking of someone who had run away from home .
`` A wicked , ungrateful boy , '' she called him .
Chester blushed until his freckles were drowned out in a sea of red , and Clemantiny saw it , of course .
When did anything ever escape those merciless black eyes of Clemantiny 's ?
`` Do you think it 's always wrong for a fellow to run away , Miss Salome ? ''
he faltered .
`` It ca n't ever be right , '' said Miss Salome decidedly .
`` But if he was n't treated well -- and was jawed at -- and not let go to school ? ''
pleaded Chester .
Clemantiny gave Miss Salome a look as of one who would say , You 're bat-blind if you ca n't read between the lines of that ; but Miss Salome was placidly unconscious .
She was not really thinking of the subject at all , and did not guess that Chester meant anything more than generalities .
`` Not even then , '' she said firmly .
`` Nothing can justify a boy for running away -- especially as Jarvis Colemen did -- never even left a word behind him to say where he 'd gone .
His aunt thought he 'd fallen into the river . ''
`` Do n't suppose she would have grieved much if he had , '' said Clemantiny sarcastically , all the while watching Chester , until he felt as if she were boring into his very soul and reading all his past life .
When the harvest season drew to a close , dismay crept into the soul of our hero .
Where would he go now ?
He hated to think of leaving Mount Hope Farm and Miss Salome .
He would have been content to stay there and work as hard as he had ever worked at Upton , merely for the roof over his head and the food he ate .
The making of a fortune seemed a small thing compared to the privilege of being near Miss Salome .
`` But I suppose I must just up and go , '' he muttered dolefully .
One day Miss Salome had a conference with Clemantiny .
At the end of it the latter said , `` Do as you please , '' in the tone she might have used to a spoiled child .
`` But if you 'd take my advice -- which you wo n't and never do -- you 'd write to somebody in Upton and make inquiries about him first .
What he says is all very well and he sticks to it marvellous , and there 's no tripping him up .
But there 's something behind , Salome Whitney -- mark my words , there 's something behind . ''
`` He looks so like Johnny , '' said Miss Salome wistfully .
`` And I suppose you think that covers a multitude of sins , '' said Clemantiny contemptuously .
* * * * * On the day when the last load of rustling golden sheaves was carried into the big barn and stowed away in the dusty loft , Miss Salome called Chester into the kitchen .
Chester 's heart sank as he obeyed the summons .
His time was up , and now he was to be paid his wages and sent away .
To be sure , Martin had told him that morning that a man in East Hopedale wanted a boy for a spell , and that he , Martin , would see that he got the place if he wanted it .
But that did not reconcile him to leaving Mount Hope Farm .
Miss Salome was sitting in her favourite sunny corner of the kitchen and Clemantiny was flying around with double briskness .
The latter 's thin lips were tightly set and disapproval was writ large in every flutter of her calico skirts .
`` Chester , '' said Miss Salome kindly , `` your time is up today . ''
Chester nodded .
For a moment he felt as he had felt when he left the provision store in Montrose .
But he would not let Clemantiny see him cry .
Somehow , he would not have minded Miss Salome .
`` What are you thinking of doing now ? ''
Miss Salome went on .
`` There 's a man at East Hopedale wants a boy , '' said Chester , `` and Martin says he thinks I 'll suit . ''
`` That is Jonas Smallman , '' said Miss Salome thoughtfully .
`` He has the name of being a hard master .
It is n't right of me to say so , perhaps .
I really do n't know much about him .
But would n't you rather stay here with me for the winter , Chester ? ''
`` Ma'am ?
Miss Salome ? ''
stammered Chester .
He heard Clemantiny give a snort behind him and mutter , `` Clean infatuated -- clean infatuated , '' without in the least knowing what she meant .
`` We really need a chore boy all the year round , '' said Miss Salome .
`` Martin has all he can do with the heavy work .
And there are the apples to be picked .
If you care to stay , you shall have your board and clothes for doing the odd jobs , and you can go to school all winter .
In the spring we will see what need be done then . ''
If he would care to stay !
Chester could have laughed aloud .
His eyes were shining with joy as he replied , `` Oh , Miss Salome , I 'll be so glad to stay !
I -- I -- did n't want to go away .
I 'll try to do everything you want me to do .
I 'll work ever so hard . ''
`` Humph ! ''
This , of course , was from Clemantiny , as she set a pan of apples on the stove with an emphatic thud .
`` Nobody ever doubted your willingness to work .
Pity everything else about you is n't as satisfactory . ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
said Miss Salome rebukingly .
She put her arms about Chester and drew him to her .
`` Then it is all settled , Chester .
You are my boy now , and of course I shall expect you to be a good boy . ''
If ever a boy was determined to be good , that boy was Chester .
That day was the beginning of a new life for him .
He began to go to the Hopedale school the next week .
Miss Salome gave him all Johnny 's old school books and took an eager interest in his studies .
Chester ought to have been very happy , and at first he was ; but as the bright , mellow days of autumn passed by , a shadow came over his happiness .
He could not help thinking that he had really deceived Miss Salome , and was deceiving her still -- Miss Salome , who had such confidence in him .
He was not what he pretended to be .
And as for his running away , he felt sure that Miss Salome would view that with horror .
As the time passed by and he learned more and more what a high standard of honour and truth she had , he felt more and more ashamed of himself .
When she looked at him with her clear , trustful , blue eyes , Chester felt as guilty as if he had systematically deceived her with intent to do harm .
He began to wish that he had the courage to tell her the whole truth about himself .
Moreover , he began to think that perhaps he had not done right , after all , in running away from Aunt Harriet .
In Miss Salome 's code nothing could be right that was underhanded , and Chester was very swiftly coming to look at things through Miss Salome 's eyes .
He felt sure that Johnny would never have acted as he had , and if Chester now had one dear ambition on earth , it was to be as good and manly a fellow as Johnny must have been .
But he could never be that as long as he kept the truth about himself from Miss Salome .
`` That boy has got something on his mind , '' said the terrible Clemantiny , who , Chester felt convinced , could see through a stone wall .
`` Nonsense !
What could he have on his mind ? ''
said Miss Salome .
But she said it a little anxiously .
She , too , had noticed Chester 's absent ways and abstracted face .
`` Goodness me , I do n't know !
I do n't suppose he has robbed a bank or murdered anybody .
But he is worrying over something , as plain as plain . ''
`` He is getting on very well at school , '' said Miss Salome .
`` His teacher says so , and he is very eager to learn .
I do n't know what can be troubling him . ''
She was fated not to know for a fortnight longer .
During that time Chester fought out his struggle with himself , and conquered .
He must tell Miss Salome , he decided , with a long sigh .
He knew that it would mean going back to Upton and Aunt Harriet and the old , hard life , but he would not sail under false colours any longer .
* * * * * Chester went into the kitchen one afternoon when he came home from school , with his lips set and his jaws even squarer than usual .
Miss Salome was making some of her famous taffy , and Clemantiny was spinning yarn on the big wheel .
`` Miss Salome , '' said Chester desperately , `` if you 're not too busy , there is something I 'd like to tell you . ''
`` What is it ? ''
asked Miss Salome good-humouredly , turning to him with her spoon poised in midair over her granite saucepan .
`` It 's about myself .
I -- I -- oh , Miss Salome , I did n't tell you the truth about myself .
I 've got to tell it now .
My name is n't Benson -- exactly -- and I ran away from home . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
said Miss Salome mildly .
She dropped her spoon , handle and all , into the taffy and never noticed it .
`` Dear me , Chester ! ''
`` I knew it , '' said Clemantiny triumphantly .
`` I knew it -- and I always said it .
Run away , did you ? ''
`` Yes 'm .
My name is Chester Benson Stephens , and I lived at Upton with Aunt Harriet Elwell .
But she ai n't any relation to me , really .
She 's only father 's stepsister .
She -- she -- was n't kind to me and she would n't let me go to school -- so I ran away . ''
`` But , dear me , Chester , did n't you know that was very wrong ? ''
said Miss Salome in bewilderment .
`` No 'm -- I did n't know it then .
I 've been thinking lately that maybe it was .
I 'm -- I 'm real sorry . ''
`` What did you say your real name was ? ''
demanded Clemantiny .
`` Stephens , ma'am . ''
`` And your mother 's name before she was married ? ''
`` Mary Morrow , '' said Chester , wondering what upon earth Clemantiny meant .
Clemantiny turned to Miss Salome with an air of surrendering a dearly cherished opinion .
`` Well , ma'am , I guess you must be right about his looking like Johnny .
I must say I never could see the resemblance , but it may well be there , for he -- that very fellow there -- and Johnny are first cousins .
Their mothers were sisters ! ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
exclaimed Miss Salome .
`` You may well say ` Clemantiny . '
Such a coincidence !
It does n't make you and him any relation , of course -- the cousinship is on the mother 's side .
But it 's there .
Mary Morrow was born and brought up in Hopedale .
She went to Upton when I did , and married Oliver Stephens there .
Why , I knew his father as well as I know you . ''
`` This is wonderful , '' said Miss Salome .
Then she added sorrowfully , `` But it does n't make your running away right , Chester . ''
`` Tell us all about it , '' demanded Clemantiny , sitting down on the wood-box .
`` Sit down , boy , sit down -- do n't stand there looking as if you were on trial for your life .
Tell us all about it . ''
Thus adjured , Chester sat down and told them all about it -- his moonlight flitting and his adventures in Montrose .
Miss Salome exclaimed with horror over the fact of his sleeping in a pile of lumber for seven nights , but Clemantiny listened in silence , never taking her eyes from the boy 's pale face .
When Chester finished , she nodded .
`` We 've got it all now .
There 's nothing more behind , Salome .
It would have been better for you to have told as straight a story at first , young man . ''
Chester knew that , but , having no reply to make , made none .
Miss Salome looked at him wistfully .
`` But , with it all , you did n't do right to run away , Chester , '' she said firmly .
`` I dare say your aunt was severe with you -- but two wrongs never make a right , you know . ''
`` No 'm , '' said Chester .
`` You must go back to your aunt , '' continued Miss Salome sadly .
Chester nodded .
He knew this , but he could not trust himself to speak .
Then did Clemantiny arise in her righteous indignation .
`` Well , I never heard of such nonsense , Salome Whitney !
What on earth do you want to send him back for ?
I knew Harriet Elwell years ago , and if she 's still what she was then , it ai n't much wonder Chester ran away from her .
I 'd say ` run , ' too .
Go back , indeed !
You keep him right here , as you should , and let Harriet Elwell look somewhere else for somebody to scold ! ''
`` Clemantiny ! ''
expostulated Miss Salome .
`` Oh , I must and will speak my mind , Salome .
There 's no one else to take Chester 's part , it seems .
You have as much claim on him as Harriet Elwell has .
She ai n't any real relation to him any more than you are . ''
Miss Salome looked troubled .
Perhaps there was something in Clemantiny 's argument .
And she hated to think of seeing Chester go .
He looked more like Johnny than ever , as he stood there with his flushed face and wistful eyes .
`` Chester , '' she said gravely , `` I leave it to you to decide .
If you think you ought to go back to your aunt , well and good .
If not , you shall stay here . ''
This was the hardest yet .
Chester wished she had not left the decision to him .
It was like cutting off his own hand .
But he spoke up manfully .
`` I -- I think I ought to go back , Miss Salome , and I want to pay back the money , too . ''
`` I think so , too , Chester , although I 'm sorry as sorry can be .
I 'll go back to Upton with you .
We 'll start tomorrow .
If , when we get there , your aunt is willing to let you stay with me , you can come back . ''
`` There 's a big chance of that ! ''
said Clemantiny sourly .
`` A woman 's likely to give up a boy like Chester -- a good , steady worker and as respectful and obliging as there is between this and sunset -- very likely , is n't she !
Well , this taffy is all burnt to the saucepan and clean ruined -- but what 's the odds !
All I hope , Salome Whitney , is that the next time you adopt a boy and let him twine himself ` round a person 's heart , you 'll make sure first that you are going to stick to it .
I do n't like having my affections torn up by the roots . ''
Clemantiny seized the saucepan and disappeared with it into the pantry amid a whirl of pungent smoke .
Mount Hope Farm was a strangely dismal place that night .
Miss Salome sighed heavily and often as she made her preparations for the morrow 's journey .
Clemantiny stalked about with her grim face grimmer than ever .
As for Chester , when he went to bed that night in the little porch chamber , he cried heartily into his pillows .
He did n't care for pride any longer ; he just cried and did n't even pretend he was n't crying when Miss Salome came in to sit by him a little while and talk to him .
That talk comforted Chester .
He realized that , come what might , he would always have a good friend in Miss Salome -- aye , and in Clemantiny , too .
Chester never knew it , but after he had fallen asleep , with the tears still glistening on his brown cheeks , Clemantiny tiptoed silently in with a candle in her hand and bent over him with an expression of almost maternal tenderness on her face .
It was late and an aroma of boiling sugar hung about her .
She had sat up long after Miss Salome was abed , to boil another saucepan of taffy for Chester to eat on his journey .
`` Poor , dear child ! ''
she said , softly touching one of his crisp curls .
`` It 's a shame in Salome to insist on his going back .
She does n't know what she 's sending him to , or she would n't .
He did n't say much against his aunt , and Salome thinks she was only just a little bit cranky .
But I could guess . ''
Early in the morning Miss Salome and Chester started .
They were to drive to Montrose , leave their team there and take the boat for Belltown .
Chester bade farewell to the porch chamber and the long , white kitchen and the friendly barns with a full heart .
When he climbed into the wagon , Clemantiny put a big bagful of taffy into his hands .
`` Good-by , Chester , '' she said .
`` And remember , you 've always got a friend in me , anyhow . ''
Then Clemantiny went back into the kitchen and cried -- good , rough-spoken , tender-hearted Clemantiny sat down and cried .
It was an ideal day for travelling -- crisp , clear and sunny -- but neither Chester nor Miss Salome was in a mood for enjoyment .
Back over Chester 's runaway route they went , and reached Belltown on the boat that evening .
They stayed in Belltown overnight and in the morning took the train to Roxbury Station .
Here Miss Salome hired a team from the storekeeper and drove out to Upton .
Chester felt his heart sink as they drove into the Elwell yard .
How well he knew it !
Miss Salome tied her hired nag to the gatepost and took Chester by the hand .
They went to the door and knocked .
It was opened with a jerk and Mrs. Elwell stood before them .
She had probably seen them from the window , for she uttered no word of surprise at seeing Chester again .
Indeed , she said nothing at all , but only stood rigidly before them .
Dear me , what a disagreeable-looking woman !
thought Miss Salome .
But she said courteously , `` Are you Mrs. Elwell ? ''
`` I am , '' said that lady forbiddingly .
`` I 've brought your nephew home , '' continued Miss Salome , laying her hand encouragingly on Chester 's shrinking shoulder .
`` I have had him hired for some time on my farm at Hopedale , but I did n't know until yesterday that he had run away from you .
When he told me about it , I thought he ought to come straight back and return your four dollars , and so did he .
So I have brought him . ''
`` You might have saved yourself the trouble then ! ''
cried Mrs. Elwell shrilly .
Her black eyes flashed with anger .
`` I 'm done with him and do n't want the money .
Run away when there was work to do , and thinks he can come back now that it 's all done and loaf all winter , does he ?
He shall never enter my house again . ''
`` That he shall not ! ''
cried Miss Salome , at last finding her tongue .
Her gentle nature was grievously stirred by the heartlessness shown in the face and voice of Mrs. Elwell .
`` That he shall not ! ''
she cried again .
`` But he shall not want for a home as long as I have one to give him .
Come , Chester , we 'll go home . ''
`` I wish you well of him , '' Mrs. Elwell said sarcastically .
Miss Salome already repented her angry retort .
She was afraid she had been undignified , but she wished for a moment that Clemantiny was there .
Wicked as she feared it was , Miss Salome thought she could have enjoyed a tilt between her ancient handmaid and Mrs. Elwell .
`` I beg your pardon , Mrs. Elwell , if I have used any intemperate expressions , '' she said with great dignity .
`` You provoked me more than was becoming by your remarks .
I wish you good morning . ''
Mrs. Elwell slammed the door shut .
With her cheeks even more than usually rosy , Miss Salome led Chester down to the gate , untied her horse and drove out of the yard .
Not until they reached the main road did she trust herself to speak to the dazed lad beside her .
`` What a disagreeable women ! ''
she ejaculated at last .
`` I do n't wonder you ran away , Chester -- I do n't , indeed !
Though , mind you , I do n't think it was right , for all that .
But I 'm gladder than words can say that she would n't take you back .
You are mine now , and you will stay mine .
I want you to call me Aunt Salome after this .
Get up , horse !
If we can catch that train at Roxbury , we 'll be home by night yet . ''
Chester was too happy to speak .
He had never felt so glad and grateful in his life before .
They got home that night just as the sun was setting redly behind the great maples on the western hill .
As they drove into the yard , Clemantiny 's face appeared , gazing at them over the high board fence of the cow-yard .
Chester waved his hand at her gleefully .
`` Lawful heart ! ''
said Clemantiny .
She set down her pail and came out to the lane on a run .
She caught Chester as he sprang from the wagon and gave him a hearty hug .
`` I 'm glad clean down to my boot soles to see you back again , '' she said .
`` He 's back for good , '' said Miss Salome .
`` Chester , you 'd better go in and study up your lessons for tomorrow . ''
The Strike at Putney The church at Putney was one that gladdened the hearts of all the ministers in the presbytery whenever they thought about it .
It was such a satisfactory church .
While other churches here and there were continually giving trouble in one way or another , the Putneyites were never guilty of brewing up internal or presbyterial strife .
The Exeter church people were always quarrelling among themselves and carrying their quarrels to the courts of the church .
The very name of Exeter gave the members of presbytery the cold creeps .
But the Putney church people never quarrelled .
Danbridge church was in a chronic state of ministerlessness .
No minister ever stayed in Danbridge longer than he could help .
The people were too critical , and they were also noted heresy hunters .
Good ministers fought shy of Danbridge , and poor ones met with a chill welcome .
The harassed presbytery , worn out with `` supplying , '' were disposed to think that the millennium would come if ever the Danbridgians got a minister whom they liked .
At Putney they had had the same minister for fifteen years and hoped and expected to have him for fifteen more .
They looked with horror-stricken eyes on the Danbridge theological coquetries .
Bloom Valley church was over head and heels in debt and had no visible prospect of ever getting out .
The moderator said under his breath that they did over-much praying and too little hoeing .
He did not believe in faith without works .
Tarrytown Road kept its head above water but never had a cent to spare for missions or the schemes of the church .
In bright and shining contradistinction to these the Putney church had always paid its way and gave liberally to all departments of church work .
If other springs of supply ran dry the Putneyites enthusiastically got up a `` tea '' or a `` social , '' and so raised the money .
Naturally the `` heft '' of this work fell on the women , but they did not mind -- in very truth , they enjoyed it .
The Putney women had the reputation of being `` great church workers , '' and they plumed themselves on it , putting on airs at conventions among the less energetic women of the other churches .
They were especially strong on societies .
There was the Church Aid Society , the Girls ' Flower Band , and the Sewing Circle .
There was a Mission Band and a Helping Hand among the children .
And finally there was the Women 's Foreign Mission Auxiliary , out of which the whole trouble grew which convulsed the church at Putney for a brief time and furnished a standing joke in presbyterial circles for years afterwards .
To this day ministers and elders tell the story of the Putney church strike with sparkling eyes and subdued chuckles .
It never grows old or stale .
But the Putney elders are an exception .
They never laugh at it .
They never refer to it .
It is not in the wicked , unregenerate heart of man to make a jest of his own bitter defeat .
It was in June that the secretary of the Putney W.F.M. Auxiliary wrote to a noted returned missionary who was touring the country , asking her to give an address on mission work before their society .
Mrs. Cotterell wrote back saying that her brief time was so taken up already that she found it hard to make any further engagements , but she could not refuse the Putney people who were so well and favourably known in mission circles for their perennial interest and liberality .
So , although she could not come on the date requested , she would , if acceptable , come the following Sunday .
This suited the Putney Auxiliary very well .
On the Sunday referred to there was to be no evening service in the church owing to Mr. Sinclair 's absence .
They therefore appointed the missionary meeting for that night , and made arrangements to hold it in the church itself , as the classroom was too small for the expected audience .
Then the thunderbolt descended on the W.F.M.A. of Putney from a clear sky .
The elders of the church rose up to a man and declared that no woman should occupy the pulpit of the Putney church .
It was in direct contravention to the teachings of St. Paul .
To make matters worse , Mr. Sinclair declared himself on the elders ' side .
He said that he could not conscientiously give his consent to a woman occupying his pulpit , even when that woman was Mrs. Cotterell and her subject foreign missions .
The members of the Auxiliary were aghast .
They called a meeting extraordinary in the classroom and , discarding all forms and ceremonies in their wrath , talked their indignation out .
Out of doors the world basked in June sunshine and preened itself in blossom .
The birds sang and chirped in the lichened maples that cupped the little church in , and peace was over all the Putney valley .
Inside the classroom disgusted women buzzed like angry bees .
`` What on earth are we to do ? ''
sighed the secretary plaintively .
Mary Kilburn was always plaintive .
She sat on the steps of the platform , being too wrought up in her mind to sit in her chair at the desk , and her thin , faded little face was twisted with anxiety .
`` All the arrangements are made and Mrs. Cotterell is coming on the tenth .
How can we tell her that the men wo n't let her speak ? ''
`` There was never anything like this in Putney church before , '' groaned Mrs. Elder Knox .
`` It was Andrew McKittrick put them up to it .
I always said that man would make trouble here yet , ever since he moved to Putney from Danbridge .
I 've talked and argued with Thomas until I 'm dumb , but he is as set as a rock . ''
`` I do n't see what business the men have to interfere with us anyhow , '' said her daughter Lucy , who was sitting on one of the window-sills .
`` We do n't meddle with them , I 'm sure .
As if Mrs. Cotterell would contaminate the pulpit ! ''
`` One would think we were still in the dark ages , '' said Frances Spenslow sharply .
Frances was the Putney schoolteacher .
Her father was one of the recalcitrant elders and Frances felt it bitterly -- all the more that she had tried to argue with him and had been sat upon as a `` child who could n't understand . ''
`` I 'm more surprised at Mr. Sinclair than at the elders , '' said Mrs. Abner Keech , fanning herself vigorously .
`` Elders are subject to queer spells periodically .
They think they assert their authority that way .
But Mr. Sinclair has always seemed so liberal and broad-minded . ''
`` You never can tell what crotchet an old bachelor will take into his head , '' said Alethea Craig bitingly .
The others nodded agreement .
Mr. Sinclair 's inveterate celibacy was a standing grievance with the Putney women .
`` If he had a wife who could be our president this would never have happened , I warrant you , '' said Mrs. King sagely .
`` But what are we going to do , ladies ? ''
said Mrs. Robbins briskly .
Mrs. Robbins was the president .
She was a big , bustling woman with clear blue eyes and crisp , incisive ways .
Hitherto she had held her peace .
`` They must talk themselves out before they can get down to business , '' she had reflected sagely .
But she thought the time had now come to speak .
`` You know , '' she went on , `` we can talk and rage against the men all day if we like .
They are not trying to prevent us .
But that will do no good .
Here 's Mrs. Cotterell invited , and all the neighbouring auxiliaries notified -- and the men wo n't let us have the church .
The point is , how are we going to get out of the scrape ? ''
A helpless silence descended upon the classroom .
The eyes of every woman present turned to Myra Wilson .
Everyone could talk , but when it came to action they had a fashion of turning to Myra .
She had a reputation for cleverness and originality .
She never talked much .
So far today she had not said a word .
She was sitting on the sill of the window across from Lucy Knox .
She swung her hat on her knee , and loose , moist rings of dark hair curled around her dark , alert face .
There was a sparkle in her grey eyes that boded ill to the men who were peaceably pursuing their avocations , rashly indifferent to what the women might be saying in the maple-shaded classroom .
`` Have you any suggestion to make , Miss Wilson ? ''
said Mrs. Robbins , with a return to her official voice and manner .
Myra put her long , slender index finger to her chin .
`` I think , '' she said decidedly , `` that we must strike . ''
* * * * * When Elder Knox went in to tea that evening he glanced somewhat apprehensively at his wife .
They had had an altercation before she went to the meeting , and he supposed she had talked herself into another rage while there .
But Mrs. Knox was placid and smiling .
She had made his favourite soda biscuits for him and inquired amiably after his progress in hoeing turnips in the southeast meadow .
She made , however , no reference to the Auxiliary meeting , and when the biscuits and the maple syrup and two cups of matchless tea had nerved the elder up , his curiosity got the better of his prudence -- for even elders are human and curiosity knows no gender -- and he asked what they had done at the meeting .
`` We poor men have been shaking in our shoes , '' he said facetiously .
`` Were you ? ''
Mrs. Knox 's voice was calm and faintly amused .
`` Well , you did n't need to .
We talked the matter over very quietly and came to the conclusion that the session knew best and that women had n't any right to interfere in church business at all . ''
Lucy Knox turned her head away to hide a smile .
The elder beamed .
He was a peace-loving man and disliked `` ructions '' of any sort and domestic ones in particular .
Since the decision of the session Mrs. Knox had made his life a burden to him .
He did not understand her sudden change of base , but he accepted it very thankfully .
`` That 's right -- that 's right , '' he said heartily .
`` I 'm glad to hear you coming out so sensible , Maria .
I was afraid you 'd work yourselves up at that meeting and let Myra Wilson or Alethea Craig put you up to some foolishness or other .
Well , I guess I 'll jog down to the Corner this evening and order that barrel of pastry flour you want . ''
`` Oh , you need n't , '' said Mrs. Knox indifferently .
`` We wo n't be needing it now . ''
`` Not needing it !
But I thought you said you had to have some to bake for the social week after next . ''
`` There is n't going to be any social . ''
`` Not any social ? ''
Elder Knox stared perplexedly at his wife .
A month previously the Putney church had been recarpeted , and they still owed fifty dollars for it .
This , the women declared , they would speedily pay off by a big cake and ice-cream social in the hall .
Mrs. Knox had been one of the foremost promoters of the enterprise .
`` Not any social ? ''
repeated the elder again .
`` Then how is the money for the carpet to be got ?
And why is n't there going to be a social ? ''
`` The men can get the money somehow , I suppose , '' said Mrs. Knox .
`` As for the social , why , of course , if women are n't good enough to speak in church they are not good enough to work for it either .
Lucy , dear , will you pass me the cookies ? ''
`` Lucy dear '' passed the cookies and then rose abruptly and left the table .
Her father 's face was too much for her .
`` What confounded nonsense is this ? ''
demanded the elder explosively .
Mrs. Knox opened her mellow brown eyes widely , as if in amazement at her husband 's tone .
`` I do n't understand you , '' she said .
`` Our position is perfectly logical . ''
She had borrowed that phrase from Myra Wilson , and it floored the elder .
He got up , seized his hat , and strode from the room .
That night , at Jacob Wherrison 's store at the Corner , the Putney men talked over the new development .
The social was certainly off -- for a time , anyway .
`` Best let 'em alone , I say , '' said Wherrison .
`` They 're mad at us now and doing this to pay us out .
But they 'll cool down later on and we 'll have the social all right . ''
`` But if they do n't , '' said Andrew McKittrick gloomily , `` who is going to pay for that carpet ? ''
This was an unpleasant question .
The others shirked it .
`` I was always opposed to this action of the session , '' said Alec Craig .
`` It would n't have hurt to have let the woman speak .
'T is n't as if it was a regular sermon . ''
`` The session knew best , '' said Andrew sharply .
`` And the minister -- you 're not going to set your opinion up against his , are you , Craig ? ''
`` Did n't know they taught such reverence for ministers in Danbridge , '' retorted Craig with a laugh .
`` Best let 'em alone , as Wherrison says , '' said Abner Keech .
`` Do n't see what else we can do , '' said John Wilson shortly .
* * * * * On Sunday morning the men were conscious of a bare , deserted appearance in the church .
Mr. Sinclair perceived it himself .
After some inward wondering he concluded that it was because there were no flowers anywhere .
The table before the pulpit was bare .
On the organ a vase held a sorry , faded bouquet left over from the previous week .
The floor was ' unswept .
Dust lay thickly on the pulpit Bible , the choir chairs , and the pew backs .
`` This church looks disgraceful , '' said John Robbins in an angry undertone to his daughter Polly , who was president of the Flower Band .
`` What in the name of common sense is the good of your Flower Banders if you ca n't keep the place looking decent ? ''
`` There is no Flower Band now , Father , '' whispered Polly in turn .
`` We 've disbanded .
Women have n't any business to meddle in church matters .
You know the session said so . ''
It was well for Polly that she was too big to have her ears boxed .
Even so , it might not have saved her if they had been anywhere else than in church .
Meanwhile the men who were sitting in the choir -- three basses and two tenors -- were beginning to dimly suspect that there was something amiss here too .
Where were the sopranos and the altos ?
Myra Wilson and Alethea Craig and several other members of the choir were sitting down in their pews with perfectly unconscious faces .
Myra was looking out of the window into the tangled sunlight and shadow of the great maples .
Alethea Craig was reading her Bible .
Presently Frances Spenslow came in .
Frances was organist , but today , instead of walking up to the platform , she slipped demurely into her father 's pew at one side of the pulpit .
Eben Craig , who was the Putney singing master and felt himself responsible for the choir , fidgeted uneasily .
He tried to catch Frances 's eye , but she was absorbed in reading the mission report she had found in the rack , and Eben was finally forced to tiptoe down to the Spenslow pew and whisper , `` Miss Spenslow , the minister is waiting for the doxology .
Are n't you going to take the organ ? ''
Frances looked up calmly .
Her clear , placid voice was audible not only to those in the nearby pews , but to the minister .
`` No , Mr. Craig .
You know if a woman is n't fit to speak in the church she ca n't be fit to sing in it either . ''
Eben Craig looked exceedingly foolish .
He tiptoed gingerly back to his place .
The minister , with an unusual flush on his thin , ascetic face , rose suddenly and gave out the opening hymn .
Nobody who heard the singing in Putney church that day ever forgot it .
Untrained basses and tenors , unrelieved by a single female voice , are not inspiring .
There were no announcements of society meetings for the forthcoming week .
On the way home from church that day irate husbands and fathers scolded , argued , or pleaded , according to their several dispositions .
One and all met with the same calm statement that if a noble , self-sacrificing woman like Mrs. Cotterell were not good enough to speak in the Putney church , ordinary , everyday women could not be fit to take any part whatever in its work .
Sunday School that afternoon was a harrowing failure .
Out of all the corps of teachers only one was a man , and he alone was at his post .
In the Christian Endeavour meeting on Tuesday night the feminine element sat dumb and unresponsive .
The Putney women never did things by halves .
The men held out for two weeks .
At the end of that time they `` happened '' to meet at the manse and talked the matter over with the harassed minister .
Elder Knox said gloomily , `` It 's this way .
Nothing can move them women .
I know , for I 've tried .
My authority has been set at naught in my own household .
And I 'm laughed at if I show my face in any of the other settlements . ''
The Sunday School superintendent said the Sunday School was going to wrack and ruin , also the Christian Endeavour .
The condition of the church for dust was something scandalous , and strangers were making a mockery of the singing .
And the carpet had to be paid for .
He supposed they would have to let the women have their own way .
The next Sunday evening after service Mr. Sinclair arose hesitatingly .
His face was flushed , and Alethea Craig always declared that he looked `` just plain everyday cross . ''
He announced briefly that the session after due deliberation had concluded that Mrs. Cotterell might occupy the pulpit on the evening appointed for her address .
The women all over the church smiled broadly .
Frances Spenslow got up and went to the organ stool .
The singing in the last hymn was good and hearty .
Going down the steps after dismissal Mrs. Elder Knox caught the secretary of the Church Aid by the arm .
`` I guess , '' she whispered anxiously , `` you 'd better call a special meeting of the Aids at my house tomorrow afternoon .
If we 're to get that social over before haying begins we 've got to do some smart scurrying . ''
The strike in the Putney church was over .
The Unhappiness of Miss Farquhar Frances Farquhar was a beauty and was sometimes called a society butterfly by people who did n't know very much about it .
Her father was wealthy and her mother came of an extremely blue-blooded family .
Frances had been out for three years , and was a social favourite .
Consequently , it may be wondered why she was unhappy .
In plain English , Frances Farquhar had been jilted -- just a commonplace , everyday jilting !
She had been engaged to Paul Holcomb ; he was a very handsome fellow , somewhat too evidently aware of the fact , and Frances was very deeply in love with him -- or thought herself so , which at the time comes to pretty much the same thing .
Everybody in her set knew of her engagement , and all her girl friends envied her , for Holcomb was a matrimonial catch .
Then the crash came .
Nobody outside the family knew exactly what did happen , but everybody knew that the Holcomb-Farquhar match was off , and everybody had a different story to account for it .
The simple truth was that Holcomb was fickle and had fallen in love with another girl .
There was nothing of the man about him , and it did not matter to his sublimely selfish caddishness whether he broke Frances Farquhar 's heart or not .
He got his freedom and he married Maud Carroll in six months ' time .
The Farquhars , especially Ned , who was Frances 's older brother and seldom concerned himself about her except when the family honour was involved , were furious at the whole affair .
Mr. Farquhar stormed , and Ned swore , and Della lamented her vanished role of bridemaid .
As for Mrs. Farquhar , she cried and said it would ruin Frances 's future prospects .
The girl herself took no part in the family indignation meetings .
But she believed that her heart was broken .
Her love and her pride had suffered equally , and the effect seemed disastrous .
After a while the Farquhars calmed down and devoted themselves to the task of cheering Frances up .
This they did not accomplish .
She got through the rest of the season somehow and showed a proud front to the world , not even flinching when Holcomb himself crossed her path .
To be sure , she was pale and thin , and had about as much animation as a mask , but the same might be said of a score of other girls who were not suspected of having broken hearts .
When the summer came Frances asserted herself .
The Farquhars went to Green Harbour every summer .
But this time Frances said she would not go , and stuck to it .
The whole family took turns coaxing her and had nothing to show for their pains .
`` I 'm going up to Windy Meadows to stay with Aunt Eleanor while you are at the Harbour , '' she declared .
`` She has invited me often enough . ''
Ned whistled .
`` Jolly time you 'll have of it , Sis .
Windy Meadows is about as festive as a funeral .
And Aunt Eleanor is n't lively , to put it in the mildest possible way . ''
`` I do n't care if she is n't .
I want to get somewhere where people wo n't look at me and talk about -- that , '' said Frances , looking ready to cry .
Ned went out and swore at Holcomb again , and then advised his mother to humour Frances .
Accordingly , Frances went to Windy Meadows .
Windy Meadows was , as Ned had said , the reverse of lively .
It was a pretty country place , with a sort of fag-end by way of a little fishing village , huddled on a wind-swept bit of beach , locally known as the `` Cove . ''
Aunt Eleanor was one of those delightful people , so few and far between in this world , who have perfectly mastered the art of minding their own business exclusively .
She left Frances in peace .
She knew that her niece had had `` some love trouble or other , '' and had n't gotten over it rightly .
`` It 's always best to let those things take their course , '' said this philosophical lady to her `` help '' and confidant , Margaret Ann Peabody .
`` She 'll get over it in time -- though she does n't think so now , bless you . ''
For the first fortnight Frances revelled in a luxury of unhindered sorrow .
She could cry all night -- and all day too , if she wished -- without having to stop because people might notice that her eyes were red .
She could mope in her room all she liked .
And there were no men who demanded civility .
When the fortnight was over , Aunt Eleanor took crafty counsel with herself .
The letting-alone policy was all very well , but it would not do to have the girl die on her hands .
Frances was getting paler and thinner every day -- and she was spoiling her eyelashes by crying .
`` I wish , '' said Aunt Eleanor one morning at breakfast , while Frances pretended to eat , `` that I could go and take Corona Sherwood out for a drive today .
I promised her last week that I would , but I 've never had time yet .
And today is baking and churning day .
It 's a shame .
Poor Corona ! ''
`` Who is she ? ''
asked Frances , trying to realize that there was actually someone in the world besides herself who was to be pitied .
`` She is our minister 's sister .
She has been ill with rheumatic fever .
She is better now , but does n't seem to get strong very fast .
She ought to go out more , but she is n't able to walk .
I really must try and get around tomorrow .
She keeps house for her brother at the manse .
He is n't married , you know . ''
Frances did n't know , nor did she in the least degree care .
But even the luxury of unlimited grief palls , and Frances was beginning to feel this vaguely .
She offered to go and take Miss Sherwood out driving .
`` I 've never seen her , '' she said , `` but I suppose that does n't matter .
I can drive Grey Tom in the phaeton , if you like . ''
It was just what Aunt Eleanor intended , and she saw Frances drive off that afternoon with a great deal of satisfaction .
`` Give my love to Corona , '' she told her , `` and say for me that she is n't to go messing about among those shore people until she 's perfectly well .
The manse is the fourth house after you turn the third corner . ''
Frances kept count of the corners and the houses and found the manse .
Corona Sherwood herself came to the door .
Frances had been expecting an elderly personage with spectacles and grey crimps ; she was surprised to find that the minister 's sister was a girl of about her own age and possessed of a distinct worldly prettiness .
Corona was dark , with a different darkness from that of Frances , who had ivory outlines and blue-black hair , while Corona was dusky and piquant .
Her eyes brightened with delight when Frances told her errand .
`` How good of you and Miss Eleanor !
I am not strong enough to walk far yet -- or do anything useful , in fact , and Elliott so seldom has time to take me out . ''
`` Where shall we go ? ''
asked Frances when they started .
`` I do n't know much about this locality . ''
`` Can we drive to the Cove first ?
I want to see poor little Jacky Hart .
He has been so sick -- '' `` Aunt Eleanor positively forbade that , '' said Frances dubiously .
`` Will it be safe to disobey her ? ''
Corona laughed .
`` Miss Eleanor blames my poor shore people for making me sick at first , but it was really not that at all .
And I want to see Jacky Hart so much .
He has been ill for some time with some disease of the spine and he is worse lately .
I 'm sure Miss Eleanor wo n't mind my calling just to see him . ''
Frances turned Grey Tom down the shore road that ran to the Cove and past it to silvery , wind-swept sands , rimming sea expanses crystal clear .
Jacky Hart 's home proved to be a tiny little place overflowing with children .
Mrs. Hart was a pale , tired-looking woman with the patient , farseeing eyes so often found among the women who watch sea and shore every day and night of their lives for those who sometimes never return .
She spoke of Jacky with the apathy of hopelessness .
The doctor said he would not last much longer .
She told all her troubles unreservedly to Corona in her monotonous voice .
Her `` man '' was drinking again and the mackerel catch was poor .
When Mrs. Hart asked Corona to go in and see Jacky , Frances went too .
The sick boy , a child with a delicate , wasted face and large , bright eyes , lay in a tiny bedroom off the kitchen .
The air was hot and heavy .
Mrs. Hart stood at the foot of the bed with her tragic face .
`` We have to set up nights with him now , '' she said .
`` It 's awful hard on me and my man .
The neighbours are kind enough and come sometimes , but most of them have enough to do .
His medicine has to be given every half hour .
I 've been up for three nights running now .
Jabez was off to the tavern for two .
I 'm just about played out . ''
She suddenly broke down and began to cry , or rather whimper , in a heart-broken way .
Corona looked troubled .
`` I wish I could come tonight , Mrs. Hart , but I 'm afraid I 'm really not strong enough yet . ''
`` I do n't know much about sickness , '' spoke up Frances firmly , `` but if to sit by the child and give him his medicine regularly is all that is necessary , I am sure I can do that .
I 'll come and sit up with Jacky tonight if you care to have me . ''
Afterwards , when she and Corona were driving away , she wondered a good deal at herself .
But Corona was so evidently pleased with her offer , and took it all so much as a matter of course , that Frances had not the courage to display her wonder .
They had their drive through the great green bowl of the country valley , brimming over with sunshine , and afterwards Corona made Frances go home with her to tea .
Rev. Elliott Sherwood had got back from his pastoral visitations , and was training his sweet peas in the way they should go against the garden fence .
He was in his shirt sleeves and wore a big straw hat , and seemed in nowise disconcerted thereby .
Corona introduced him , and he took Grey Tom away and put him in the barn .
Then he went back to his sweet peas .
He had had his tea , he said , so that Frances did not see him again until she went home .
She thought he was a very indifferent young man , and not half so nice as his sister .
But she went and sat up with Jacky Hart that night , getting to the Cove at dark , when the sea was a shimmer of fairy tints and the boats were coming in from the fishing grounds .
Jacky greeted her with a wonderful smile , and later on she found herself watching alone by his bed .
The tiny lamp on the table burned dim , and outside , on the rocks , there was loud laughing and talking until a late hour .
Afterwards a silence fell , through which the lap of the waves on the sands and the far-off moan of the Atlantic surges came sonorously .
Jacky was restless and wakeful , but did not suffer , and liked to talk .
Frances listened to him with a new-born power of sympathy , which she thought she must have caught from Corona .
He told her all the tragedy of his short life , and how bad he felt , about Dad 's taking to drink and Mammy 's having to work so hard .
The pitiful little sentences made Frances 's heart ache .
The maternal instinct of the true woman awoke in her .
She took a sudden liking to the child .
He was a spiritual little creature , and his sufferings had made him old and wise .
Once in the night he told Frances that he thought the angels must look like her .
`` You are so sweet pretty , '' he said gravely .
`` I never saw anyone so pretty , not even Miss C'rona .
You look like a picture I once saw on Mr. Sherwood 's table when I was up at the manse one day ` fore I got so bad I could n't walk .
It was a woman with a li'l baby in her arms and a kind of rim round her head .
I would like something most awful much . ''
`` What is it , dear ? ''
said Frances gently .
`` If I can get or do it for you , I will . ''
`` You could , '' he said wistfully , `` but maybe you wo n't want to .
But I do wish you 'd come here just once every day and sit here five minutes and let me look at you -- just that .
Will it be too much trouble ? ''
Frances stooped and kissed him .
`` I will come every day , Jacky , '' she said ; and a look of ineffable content came over the thin little face .
He put up his hand and touched her cheek .
`` I knew you were good -- as good as Miss C'rona , and she is an angel .
I love you . ''
When morning came Frances went home .
It was raining , and the sea was hidden in mist .
As she walked along the wet road , Elliott Sherwood came splashing along in a little two-wheeled gig and picked her up .
He wore a raincoat and a small cap , and did not look at all like a minister -- or , at least , like Frances 's conception of one .
Not that she knew much about ministers .
Her own minister at home -- that is to say , the minister of the fashionable uptown church which she attended -- was a portly , dignified old man with silvery hair and gold-rimmed glasses , who preached scholarly , cultured sermons and was as far removed from Frances 's personal life as a star in the Milky Way .
But a minister who wore rubber coats and little caps and drove about in a two-wheeled gig , very much mud-bespattered , and who talked about the shore people as if they were household intimates of his , was absolutely new to Frances .
She could not help seeing , however , that the crisp brown hair under the edges of the unclerical-looking cap curled around a remarkably well-shaped forehead , beneath which flashed out a pair of very fine dark-grey eyes ; he had likewise a good mouth , which was resolute and looked as if it might be stubborn on occasion ; and , although he was not exactly handsome , Frances decided that she liked his face .
He tucked the wet , slippery rubber apron of his conveyance about her and then proceeded to ask questions .
Jacky Hart 's case had to be reported on , and then Mr. Sherwood took out a notebook and looked over its entries intently .
`` Do you want any more work of that sort to do ? ''
he asked her abruptly .
Frances felt faintly amused .
He talked to her as he might have done to Corona , and seemed utterly oblivious of the fact that her profile was classic and her eyes delicious .
His indifference piqued Frances a little in spite of her murdered heart .
Well , if there was anything she could do she might as well do it , she told him briefly , and he , with equal brevity , gave her directions for finding some old lady who lived on the Elm Creek road and to whom Corona had read tracts .
`` Tracts are a mild dissipation of Aunt Clorinda 's , '' he said .
`` She fairly revels in them .
She is half blind and has missed Corona very much . ''
There were other matters also -- a dozen or so of factory girls who needed to be looked after and a family of ragged children to be clothed .
Frances , in some dismay , found herself pledged to help in all directions , and then ways and means had to be discussed .
The long , wet road , sprinkled with houses , from whose windows people were peering to see `` what girl the minister was driving , '' seemed very short .
Frances did not know it , but Elliott Sherwood drove a full mile out of his way that morning to take her home , and risked being late for a very important appointment -- from which it may be inferred that he was not quite so blind to the beautiful as he had seemed .
Frances went through the rain that afternoon and read tracts to Aunt Clorinda .
She was so dreadfully tired that night that she forgot to cry , and slept well and soundly .
In the morning she went to church for the first time since coming to Windy Meadows .
It did not seem civil not to go to hear a man preach when she had gone slumming with his sister and expected to assist him with his difficulties over factory girls .
She was surprised at Elliott Sherwood 's sermon , and mentally wondered why such a man had been allowed to remain for four years in a little country pulpit .
Later on Aunt Eleanor told her it was for his health .
`` He was not strong when he left college , so he came here .
But he is as well as ever now , and I expect he will soon be gobbled up by some of your city churches .
He preached in Castle Street church last winter , and I believe they were delighted with him . ''
This was all of a month later .
During that time Frances thought that she must have been re-created , so far was her old self left behind .
She seldom had an idle moment ; when she had , she spent it with Corona .
The two girls had become close friends , loving each other with the intensity of exceptional and somewhat exclusive natures .
Corona grew strong slowly , and could do little for her brother 's people , but Frances was an excellent proxy , and Elliott Sherwood kept her employed .
Incidentally , Frances had come to know the young minister , with his lofty ideals and earnest efforts , very well .
He had got into a ridiculous habit of going to her -- her , Frances Farquhar !
-- for advice in many perplexities .
Frances had nursed Jacky Hart and talked temperance to his father and read tracts to Aunt Clorinda and started a reading circle among the factory girls and fitted out all the little Jarboes with dresses and coaxed the shore children to go to school and patched up a feud between two ` longshore families and done a hundred other things of a similar nature .
Aunt Eleanor said nothing , as was her wise wont , but she talked it over with Margaret Ann Peabody , and agreed with that model domestic when she said : `` Work 'll keep folks out of trouble and help 'em out of it when they are in .
Just as long as that girl brooded over her own worries and did n't think of anyone but herself she was miserable .
But as soon as she found other folks were unhappy , too , and tried to help 'em out a bit , she helped herself most of all .
She 's getting fat and rosy , and it is plain to be seen that the minister thinks there is n't the like of her on this planet . ''
One night Frances told Corona all about Holcomb .
Elliott Sherwood was away , and Frances had gone up to stay all night with Corona at the manse .
They were sitting in the moonlit gloom of Corona 's room , and Frances felt confidential .
She had expected to feel badly and cry a little while she told it .
But she did not , and before she was half through , it did not seem as if it were worth telling after all .
Corona was deeply sympathetic .
She did not say a great deal , but what she did say put Frances on better terms with herself .
`` Oh , I shall get over it , '' the latter declared finally .
`` Once I thought I never would -- but the truth is , I 'm getting over it now .
I 'm very glad -- but I 'm horribly ashamed , too , to find myself so fickle . ''
`` I do n't think you are fickle , Frances , '' said Corona gravely , `` because I do n't think you ever really loved that man at all .
You only imagined you did .
And he was not worthy of you .
You are so good , dear ; those shore people just worship you .
Elliott says you can do anything you like with them . ''
Frances laughed and said she was not at all good .
Yet she was pleased .
Later on , when she was brushing her hair before the mirror and smiling absently at her reflection , Corona said : `` Frances , what is it like to be as pretty as you are ? ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Frances by way of answer .
`` It is not nonsense at all .
You must know you are very lovely , Frances .
Elliott says you are the most beautiful girl he has ever seen . ''
For a girl who has told herself a dozen times that she would never care again for masculine admiration , Frances experienced a very odd thrill of delight on hearing that the minister of Windy Meadows thought her beautiful .
She knew he admired her intellect and had immense respect for what he called her `` genius for influencing people , '' but she had really believed all along that , if Elliott Sherwood had been asked , he could not have told whether she was a whit better looking than Kitty Martin of the Cove , who taught a class in Sunday school and had round rosy cheeks and a snub nose .
The summer went very quickly .
One day Jacky Hart died -- drifted out with the ebb tide , holding Frances 's hand .
She had loved the patient , sweet-souled little creature and missed him greatly .
When the time to go home came Frances felt dull .
She hated to leave Windy Meadows and Corona and her dear shore people and Aunt Eleanor and -- and -- well , Margaret Ann Peabody .
Elliott Sherwood came up the night before she went away .
When Margaret Ann showed him reverentially in , Frances was sitting in a halo of sunset light , and the pale , golden chrysanthemums in her hair shone like stars in the blue-black coils .
Elliott Sherwood had been absent from Windy Meadows for several days .
There was a subdued jubilance in his manner .
`` You think I have come to say good-bye , but I have n't , '' he told her .
`` I shall see you again very soon , I hope .
I have just received a call to Castle Street church , and it is my intention to accept .
So Corona and I will be in town this winter . ''
Frances tried to tell him how glad she was , but only stammered .
Elliott Sherwood came close up to her as she stood by the window in the fading light , and said -- But on second thoughts I shall not record what he said -- or what she said either .
Some things should be left to the imagination .
Why Mr. Cropper Changed His Mind `` Well , Miss Maxwell , how did you get along today ? ''
asked Mr. Baxter affably , when the new teacher came to the table .
She was a slight , dark girl , rather plain-looking , but with a smart , energetic way .
Mr. Baxter approved of her ; he `` liked her style , '' as he would have said .
The summer term had just opened in the Maitland district .
Esther Maxwell was a stranger , but she was a capable girl , and had no doubt of her own ability to get and keep the school in good working order .
She smiled brightly at Mr. Baxter .
`` Very well for a beginning .
The children seem bright and teachable and not hard to control . ''
Mr. Baxter nodded .
`` There are no bad children in the school except the Cropper boys -- and they can be good enough if they like .
Reckon they were n't there today ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , Miss Maxwell , I think it only fair to tell you that you may have trouble with those boys when they do come .
Forewarned is forearmed , you know .
Mr. Cropper was opposed to our hiring you .
Not , of course , that he had any personal objection to you , but he is set against female teachers , and when a Cropper is set there is nothing on earth can change him .
He says female teachers ca n't keep order .
He 's started in with a spite at you on general principles , and the boys know it .
They know he 'll back them up in secret , no matter what they do , just to prove his opinions .
Cropper is sly and slippery , and it is hard to corner him . ''
`` Are the boys big ? ''
queried Esther anxiously .
`` Yes .
Thirteen and fourteen and big for their age .
You ca n't whip 'em -- that is the trouble .
A man might , but they 'd twist you around their fingers .
You 'll have your hands full , I 'm afraid .
But maybe they 'll behave all right after all . ''
Mr. Baxter privately had no hope that they would , but Esther hoped for the best .
She could not believe that Mr. Cropper would carry his prejudices into a personal application .
This conviction was strengthened when he overtook her walking from school the next day and drove her home .
He was a big , handsome man with a very suave , polite manner .
He asked interestedly about her school and her work , hoped she was getting on well , and said he had two young rascals of his own to send soon .
Esther felt relieved .
She thought that Mr. Baxter had exaggerated matters a little .
`` That plum tree of Mrs. Charley 's is loaded with fruit again this year , '' remarked Mr. Baxter at the tea table that evening .
`` I came past it today on my way ` cross lots home from the woods .
There will be bushels of plums on it . ''
`` I do n't suppose poor Mrs. Charley will get one of them any more than she ever has , '' said Mrs. Baxter indignantly .
`` It 's a burning shame , that 's what it is !
I just wish she could catch the Croppers once . ''
`` You have n't any proof that it is really them , Mary , '' objected her husband , `` and you should n't make reckless accusations before folks . ''
`` I know very well it is them , '' retorted Mrs. Baxter , `` and so do you , Adoniram .
And Mrs. Charley knows it too , although she ca n't prove it -- more 's the pity !
I do n't say Isaac Cropper steals those plums with his own hands .
But he knows who does -- and the plums go into Mehitable Cropper 's preserving kettle ; there 's nothing surer . ''
`` You see , Miss Maxwell , it 's this way , '' explained Mr. Baxter , turning to Esther .
`` Mrs. Charley Cropper 's husband was Isaac 's brother .
They never got on well together , and when Charley died there was a tremendous fuss about the property .
Isaac acted mean and scandalous clear through , and public opinion has been down on him ever since .
But Mrs. Charley is a pretty smart woman , and he did n't get the better of her in everything .
There was a strip of disputed land between the two farms , and she secured it .
There 's a big plum tree growing on it close to the line fence .
It 's the finest one in Maitland .
But Mrs. Charley never gets a plum from it . ''
`` But what becomes of them ? ''
asked Esther .
`` They disappear , '' said Mr. Baxter , with a significant nod .
`` When the plums are anything like ripe Mrs. Charley discovers some day that there is n't one left on the tree .
She has never been able to get a scrap of proof as to who took them , or she 'd make it hot for them .
But nobody in Maitland has any doubt in his own mind that Isaac Cropper knows where those plums go . ''
`` I do n't think Mr. Cropper would steal , '' protested Esther .
`` Well , he does n't consider it stealing , you know .
He claims the land and says the plums are his .
I do n't doubt that he is quite clear in his own mind that they are .
And he does hate Mrs. Charley .
I 'd give considerable to see the old sinner fairly caught , but he is too deep . ''
`` I think Mr. Baxter is too hard on Mr. Cropper , '' said Esther to herself later on .
`` He has probably some private prejudice against him . ''
* * * * * But a month later she had changed her opinion .
During that time the Cropper boys had come to school .
At first Esther had been inclined to like them .
They were handsome lads , with the same smooth way that characterized their father , and seemed bright and intelligent .
For a few days all went well , and Esther felt decidedly relieved .
But before long a subtle spirit of insubordination began to make itself felt in the school .
Esther found herself powerless to cope with it .
The Croppers never openly defied her , but they did precisely as they pleased .
The other pupils thought themselves at liberty to follow this example , and in a month 's time poor Esther had completely lost control of her little kingdom .
Some complaints were heard among the ratepayers and even Mr. Baxter looked dubious .
She knew that unless she could regain her authority she would be requested to hand in her resignation , but she was baffled by the elusive system of defiance which the Cropper boys had organized .
One day she resolved to go to Mr. Cropper himself and appeal to his sense of justice , if he had any .
It had been an especially hard day in school .
When she had been absent at the noon hour all the desks in the schoolroom had been piled in a pyramid on the floor , books and slates interchanged , and various other pranks played .
When questioned every pupil denied having done or helped to do it .
Alfred and Bob Cropper looked her squarely in the eyes and declared their innocence in their usual gentlemanly fashion , yet Esther felt sure that they were the guilty ones .
She also knew what exaggerated accounts of the affair would be taken home to Maitland tea tables , and she felt like sitting down to cry .
But she did not .
Instead she set her mouth firmly , helped the children restore the room to order , and after school went up to Isaac Cropper 's house .
That gentleman himself came in from the harvest field looking as courtly as usual , even in his rough working clothes .
He shook hands heartily , told her he was glad to see her , and began talking about the weather .
Esther was not to be turned from her object thus , although she felt her courage ebbing away from her as it always did in the presence of the Cropper imperviousness .
`` I have come up to see you about Alfred and Robert , Mr. Cropper , '' she said .
`` They are not behaving well in school . ''
`` Indeed ! ''
Mr. Cropper 's voice expressed bland surprise .
`` That is strange .
As a rule I do not think Alfred and Robert have been troublesome to their teachers .
What have they been doing now ? ''
`` They refuse to obey my orders , '' said Esther faintly .
`` Ah , well , Miss Maxwell , perhaps you will pardon my saying that a teacher should be able to enforce her orders .
My boys are high-spirited fellows and need a strong , firm hand to restrain them .
I have always said I considered it advisable to employ a male teacher in Maitland school .
We should have better order .
Not that I disapprove of you personally -- far from it .
I should be glad to see you succeed .
But I have heard many complaints regarding the order in school at present . ''
`` I had no trouble until your boys came , '' retorted Esther , losing her temper a little , `` and I believe that if you were willing to co-operate with me that I could govern them . ''
`` Well , you see , '' said Mr. Cropper easily , `` when I send my boys to school I naturally expect that the teacher will be capable of doing the work she has been hired to do . ''
`` Then you refuse to help me ? ''
said Esther in a trembling voice .
`` Why , my dear young lady , what can I do ?
Boys soon know when they can disobey a teacher with impunity .
No doubt you will be able to secure a school easier to control and will do good work .
But here , as I have already said , we need a firm hand at the helm .
But you are not going yet , Miss Maxwell ?
You need some refreshment after your long walk .
Mrs. Cropper will bring you in something . ''
`` No , thank you , '' said poor Esther .
She felt that she must get away at once or she would burst into heartsick tears under those steely , bland blue eyes .
When she got home she shut herself up in her room and cried .
There was nothing for her to do but resign , she thought dismally .
On the following Saturday Esther went for an afternoon walk , carrying her kodak with her .
It was a brilliantly fine autumn day , and woods and fields were basking in a mellow haze .
Esther went across lots to Mrs. Charley Cropper 's house , intending to make a call .
But the house was locked up and evidently deserted , so she rambled past it to the back fields .
Passing through a grove of maples she came out among leafy young saplings on the other side .
Just beyond her , with its laden boughs hanging over the line fence , was the famous plum tree .
Esther looked at it for a moment .
Then an odd smile gleamed over her face and she lifted her kodak .
Monday evening Esther called on Mr. Cropper again .
After the preliminary remarks in which he indulged , she said , with seeming irrelevance , that Saturday had been a fine day .
`` There was an excellent light for snapshots , '' she went on coolly .
`` I went out with my kodak and was lucky enough to get a good negative .
I have brought you up a proof .
I thought you would be interested in it . ''
She rose and placed the proof on the table before Mr. Cropper .
The plum tree came out clearly .
Bob and Alf Cropper were up among the boughs picking the plums .
On the ground beneath them stood their father with a basket of fruit in his hand .
Mr. Cropper looked at the proof and from it to Esther .
His eyes had lost their unconcerned glitter , but his voice was defiant .
`` The plums are mine by right , '' he said .
`` Perhaps , '' said Esther calmly , `` but there are some who do not think so .
Mrs. Charley , for instance -- she would like to see this proof , I think . ''
`` Do n't show it to her , '' cried Mr. Cropper hastily .
`` I tell you , Miss Maxwell , the plums are mine .
But I am tired of fighting over them and I had decided before this that I 'd let her have them after this .
It 's only a trifle , anyhow .
And about that little matter we were discussing the other night , Miss Maxwell .
I have been thinking it over , and I admit I was somewhat unreasonable .
I 'll talk to Alfred and Robert and see what I can do . ''
`` Very well , '' said Esther quietly .
`` The matter of the plums is n't my business and I do n't wish to be involved in your family feuds , especially as you say that you mean to allow Mrs. Charley to enjoy her own in future .
As for the school , we will hope that matters will improve . ''
`` You 'll leave the proof with me , wo n't you ? ''
said Mr. Cropper eagerly .
`` Oh , certainly , '' said Esther , smiling .
`` I have the negative still , you know . ''
From that time out the Cropper boys were models of good behaviour and the other turbulent spirits , having lost their leaders , were soon quelled .
Complaint died away , and at the end of the term Esther was re-engaged .
`` You seem to have won old Cropper over to your side entirely , '' Mr. Baxter told her that night .
`` He said at the meeting today that you were the best teacher we had ever had and moved to raise your salary .
I never knew Isaac Cropper to change his opinions so handsomely . ''
Esther smiled .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___The_Jungle_Book.txt.out
Mowgli 's Brothers Now Rann the Kite brings home the night That Mang the Bat sets free -- The herds are shut in byre and hut For loosed till dawn are we .
This is the hour of pride and power , Talon and tush and claw .
Oh , hear the call !
-- Good hunting all That keep the Jungle Law !
Night-Song in the Jungle It was seven o'clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hills when Father Wolf woke up from his day 's rest , scratched himself , yawned , and spread out his paws one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feeling in their tips .
Mother Wolf lay with her big gray nose dropped across her four tumbling , squealing cubs , and the moon shone into the mouth of the cave where they all lived .
`` Augrh ! ''
said Father Wolf .
`` It is time to hunt again . ''
He was going to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail crossed the threshold and whined : `` Good luck go with you , O Chief of the Wolves .
And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble children that they may never forget the hungry in this world . ''
It was the jackal -- Tabaqui , the Dish-licker -- and the wolves of India despise Tabaqui because he runs about making mischief , and telling tales , and eating rags and pieces of leather from the village rubbish-heaps .
But they are afraid of him too , because Tabaqui , more than anyone else in the jungle , is apt to go mad , and then he forgets that he was ever afraid of anyone , and runs through the forest biting everything in his way .
Even the tiger runs and hides when little Tabaqui goes mad , for madness is the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature .
We call it hydrophobia , but they call it dewanee -- the madness -- and run .
`` Enter , then , and look , '' said Father Wolf stiffly , `` but there is no food here . ''
`` For a wolf , no , '' said Tabaqui , `` but for so mean a person as myself a dry bone is a good feast .
Who are we , the Gidur-log -LSB- the jackal people -RSB- , to pick and choose ? ''
He scuttled to the back of the cave , where he found the bone of a buck with some meat on it , and sat cracking the end merrily .
`` All thanks for this good meal , '' he said , licking his lips .
`` How beautiful are the noble children !
How large are their eyes !
And so young too !
Indeed , indeed , I might have remembered that the children of kings are men from the beginning . ''
Now , Tabaqui knew as well as anyone else that there is nothing so unlucky as to compliment children to their faces .
It pleased him to see Mother and Father Wolf look uncomfortable .
Tabaqui sat still , rejoicing in the mischief that he had made , and then he said spitefully : `` Shere Khan , the Big One , has shifted his hunting grounds .
He will hunt among these hills for the next moon , so he has told me . ''
Shere Khan was the tiger who lived near the Waingunga River , twenty miles away .
`` He has no right ! ''
Father Wolf began angrily -- `` By the Law of the Jungle he has no right to change his quarters without due warning .
He will frighten every head of game within ten miles , and I -- I have to kill for two , these days . ''
`` His mother did not call him Lungri -LSB- the Lame One -RSB- for nothing , '' said Mother Wolf quietly .
`` He has been lame in one foot from his birth .
That is why he has only killed cattle .
Now the villagers of the Waingunga are angry with him , and he has come here to make our villagers angry .
They will scour the jungle for him when he is far away , and we and our children must run when the grass is set alight .
Indeed , we are very grateful to Shere Khan ! ''
`` Shall I tell him of your gratitude ? ''
said Tabaqui .
`` Out ! ''
snapped Father Wolf .
`` Out and hunt with thy master .
Thou hast done harm enough for one night . ''
`` I go , '' said Tabaqui quietly .
`` Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the thickets .
I might have saved myself the message . ''
Father Wolf listened , and below in the valley that ran down to a little river he heard the dry , angry , snarly , singsong whine of a tiger who has caught nothing and does not care if all the jungle knows it .
`` The fool ! ''
said Father Wolf .
`` To begin a night 's work with that noise !
Does he think that our buck are like his fat Waingunga bullocks ? ''
`` H'sh .
It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to-night , '' said Mother Wolf .
`` It is Man . ''
The whine had changed to a sort of humming purr that seemed to come from every quarter of the compass .
It was the noise that bewilders woodcutters and gypsies sleeping in the open , and makes them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger .
`` Man ! ''
said Father Wolf , showing all his white teeth .
`` Faugh !
Are there not enough beetles and frogs in the tanks that he must eat Man , and on our ground too ! ''
The Law of the Jungle , which never orders anything without a reason , forbids every beast to eat Man except when he is killing to show his children how to kill , and then he must hunt outside the hunting grounds of his pack or tribe .
The real reason for this is that man-killing means , sooner or later , the arrival of white men on elephants , with guns , and hundreds of brown men with gongs and rockets and torches .
Then everybody in the jungle suffers .
The reason the beasts give among themselves is that Man is the weakest and most defenseless of all living things , and it is unsportsmanlike to touch him .
They say too -- and it is true -- that man-eaters become mangy , and lose their teeth .
The purr grew louder , and ended in the full-throated `` Aaarh ! ''
of the tiger 's charge .
Then there was a howl -- an untigerish howl -- from Shere Khan .
`` He has missed , '' said Mother Wolf .
`` What is it ? ''
Father Wolf ran out a few paces and heard Shere Khan muttering and mumbling savagely as he tumbled about in the scrub .
`` The fool has had no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter 's campfire , and has burned his feet , '' said Father Wolf with a grunt .
`` Tabaqui is with him . ''
`` Something is coming uphill , '' said Mother Wolf , twitching one ear .
`` Get ready . ''
The bushes rustled a little in the thicket , and Father Wolf dropped with his haunches under him , ready for his leap .
Then , if you had been watching , you would have seen the most wonderful thing in the world -- the wolf checked in mid-spring .
He made his bound before he saw what it was he was jumping at , and then he tried to stop himself .
The result was that he shot up straight into the air for four or five feet , landing almost where he left ground .
`` Man ! ''
he snapped .
`` A man 's cub .
Look ! ''
Directly in front of him , holding on by a low branch , stood a naked brown baby who could just walk -- as soft and as dimpled a little atom as ever came to a wolf 's cave at night .
He looked up into Father Wolf 's face , and laughed .
`` Is that a man 's cub ? ''
said Mother Wolf .
`` I have never seen one .
Bring it here . ''
A Wolf accustomed to moving his own cubs can , if necessary , mouth an egg without breaking it , and though Father Wolf 's jaws closed right on the child 's back not a tooth even scratched the skin as he laid it down among the cubs .
`` How little !
How naked , and -- how bold ! ''
said Mother Wolf softly .
The baby was pushing his way between the cubs to get close to the warm hide .
`` Ahai !
He is taking his meal with the others .
And so this is a man 's cub .
Now , was there ever a wolf that could boast of a man 's cub among her children ? ''
`` I have heard now and again of such a thing , but never in our Pack or in my time , '' said Father Wolf .
`` He is altogether without hair , and I could kill him with a touch of my foot .
But see , he looks up and is not afraid . ''
The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave , for Shere Khan 's great square head and shoulders were thrust into the entrance .
Tabaqui , behind him , was squeaking : `` My lord , my lord , it went in here ! ''
`` Shere Khan does us great honor , '' said Father Wolf , but his eyes were very angry .
`` What does Shere Khan need ? ''
`` My quarry .
A man 's cub went this way , '' said Shere Khan .
`` Its parents have run off .
Give it to me . ''
Shere Khan had jumped at a woodcutter 's campfire , as Father Wolf had said , and was furious from the pain of his burned feet .
But Father Wolf knew that the mouth of the cave was too narrow for a tiger to come in by .
Even where he was , Shere Khan 's shoulders and forepaws were cramped for want of room , as a man 's would be if he tried to fight in a barrel .
`` The Wolves are a free people , '' said Father Wolf .
`` They take orders from the Head of the Pack , and not from any striped cattle-killer .
The man 's cub is ours -- to kill if we choose . ''
`` Ye choose and ye do not choose !
What talk is this of choosing ?
By the bull that I killed , am I to stand nosing into your dog 's den for my fair dues ?
It is I , Shere Khan , who speak ! ''
The tiger 's roar filled the cave with thunder .
Mother Wolf shook herself clear of the cubs and sprang forward , her eyes , like two green moons in the darkness , facing the blazing eyes of Shere Khan .
`` And it is I , Raksha -LSB- The Demon -RSB- , who answers .
The man 's cub is mine , Lungri -- mine to me !
He shall not be killed .
He shall live to run with the Pack and to hunt with the Pack ; and in the end , look you , hunter of little naked cubs -- frog-eater -- fish-killer -- he shall hunt thee !
Now get hence , or by the Sambhur that I killed -LRB- I eat no starved cattle -RRB- , back thou goest to thy mother , burned beast of the jungle , lamer than ever thou camest into the world !
Go ! ''
Father Wolf looked on amazed .
He had almost forgotten the days when he won Mother Wolf in fair fight from five other wolves , when she ran in the Pack and was not called The Demon for compliment 's sake .
Shere Khan might have faced Father Wolf , but he could not stand up against Mother Wolf , for he knew that where he was she had all the advantage of the ground , and would fight to the death .
So he backed out of the cave mouth growling , and when he was clear he shouted : `` Each dog barks in his own yard !
We will see what the Pack will say to this fostering of man-cubs .
The cub is mine , and to my teeth he will come in the end , O bush-tailed thieves ! ''
Mother Wolf threw herself down panting among the cubs , and Father Wolf said to her gravely : `` Shere Khan speaks this much truth .
The cub must be shown to the Pack .
Wilt thou still keep him , Mother ? ''
`` Keep him ! ''
she gasped .
`` He came naked , by night , alone and very hungry ; yet he was not afraid !
Look , he has pushed one of my babes to one side already .
And that lame butcher would have killed him and would have run off to the Waingunga while the villagers here hunted through all our lairs in revenge !
Keep him ?
Assuredly I will keep him .
Lie still , little frog .
O thou Mowgli -- for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee -- the time will come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee . ''
`` But what will our Pack say ? ''
said Father Wolf .
The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf may , when he marries , withdraw from the Pack he belongs to .
But as soon as his cubs are old enough to stand on their feet he must bring them to the Pack Council , which is generally held once a month at full moon , in order that the other wolves may identify them .
After that inspection the cubs are free to run where they please , and until they have killed their first buck no excuse is accepted if a grown wolf of the Pack kills one of them .
The punishment is death where the murderer can be found ; and if you think for a minute you will see that this must be so .
Father Wolf waited till his cubs could run a little , and then on the night of the Pack Meeting took them and Mowgli and Mother Wolf to the Council Rock -- a hilltop covered with stones and boulders where a hundred wolves could hide .
Akela , the great gray Lone Wolf , who led all the Pack by strength and cunning , lay out at full length on his rock , and below him sat forty or more wolves of every size and color , from badger-colored veterans who could handle a buck alone to young black three-year-olds who thought they could .
The Lone Wolf had led them for a year now .
He had fallen twice into a wolf trap in his youth , and once he had been beaten and left for dead ; so he knew the manners and customs of men .
There was very little talking at the Rock .
The cubs tumbled over each other in the center of the circle where their mothers and fathers sat , and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub , look at him carefully , and return to his place on noiseless feet .
Sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that he had not been overlooked .
Akela from his rock would cry : `` Ye know the Law -- ye know the Law .
Look well , O Wolves ! ''
And the anxious mothers would take up the call : `` Look -- look well , O Wolves ! ''
At last -- and Mother Wolf 's neck bristles lifted as the time came -- Father Wolf pushed `` Mowgli the Frog , '' as they called him , into the center , where he sat laughing and playing with some pebbles that glistened in the moonlight .
Akela never raised his head from his paws , but went on with the monotonous cry : `` Look well ! ''
A muffled roar came up from behind the rocks -- the voice of Shere Khan crying : `` The cub is mine .
Give him to me .
What have the Free People to do with a man 's cub ? ''
Akela never even twitched his ears .
All he said was : `` Look well , O Wolves !
What have the Free People to do with the orders of any save the Free People ?
Look well ! ''
There was a chorus of deep growls , and a young wolf in his fourth year flung back Shere Khan 's question to Akela : `` What have the Free People to do with a man 's cub ? ''
Now , the Law of the Jungle lays down that if there is any dispute as to the right of a cub to be accepted by the Pack , he must be spoken for by at least two members of the Pack who are not his father and mother .
`` Who speaks for this cub ? ''
said Akela .
`` Among the Free People who speaks ? ''
There was no answer and Mother Wolf got ready for what she knew would be her last fight , if things came to fighting .
Then the only other creature who is allowed at the Pack Council -- Baloo , the sleepy brown bear who teaches the wolf cubs the Law of the Jungle : old Baloo , who can come and go where he pleases because he eats only nuts and roots and honey -- rose upon his hind quarters and grunted .
`` The man 's cub -- the man 's cub ? ''
he said .
`` I speak for the man 's cub .
There is no harm in a man 's cub .
I have no gift of words , but I speak the truth .
Let him run with the Pack , and be entered with the others .
I myself will teach him . ''
`` We need yet another , '' said Akela .
`` Baloo has spoken , and he is our teacher for the young cubs .
Who speaks besides Baloo ? ''
A black shadow dropped down into the circle .
It was Bagheera the Black Panther , inky black all over , but with the panther markings showing up in certain lights like the pattern of watered silk .
Everybody knew Bagheera , and nobody cared to cross his path ; for he was as cunning as Tabaqui , as bold as the wild buffalo , and as reckless as the wounded elephant .
But he had a voice as soft as wild honey dripping from a tree , and a skin softer than down .
`` O Akela , and ye the Free People , '' he purred , `` I have no right in your assembly , but the Law of the Jungle says that if there is a doubt which is not a killing matter in regard to a new cub , the life of that cub may be bought at a price .
And the Law does not say who may or may not pay that price .
Am I right ? ''
`` Good !
Good ! ''
said the young wolves , who are always hungry .
`` Listen to Bagheera .
The cub can be bought for a price .
It is the Law . ''
`` Knowing that I have no right to speak here , I ask your leave . ''
`` Speak then , '' cried twenty voices .
`` To kill a naked cub is shame .
Besides , he may make better sport for you when he is grown .
Baloo has spoken in his behalf .
Now to Baloo 's word I will add one bull , and a fat one , newly killed , not half a mile from here , if ye will accept the man 's cub according to the Law .
Is it difficult ? ''
There was a clamor of scores of voices , saying : `` What matter ?
He will die in the winter rains .
He will scorch in the sun .
What harm can a naked frog do us ?
Let him run with the Pack .
Where is the bull , Bagheera ?
Let him be accepted . ''
And then came Akela 's deep bay , crying : `` Look well -- look well , O Wolves ! ''
Mowgli was still deeply interested in the pebbles , and he did not notice when the wolves came and looked at him one by one .
At last they all went down the hill for the dead bull , and only Akela , Bagheera , Baloo , and Mowgli 's own wolves were left .
Shere Khan roared still in the night , for he was very angry that Mowgli had not been handed over to him .
`` Ay , roar well , '' said Bagheera , under his whiskers , `` for the time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune , or I know nothing of man . ''
`` It was well done , '' said Akela .
`` Men and their cubs are very wise .
He may be a help in time . ''
`` Truly , a help in time of need ; for none can hope to lead the Pack forever , '' said Bagheera .
Akela said nothing .
He was thinking of the time that comes to every leader of every pack when his strength goes from him and he gets feebler and feebler , till at last he is killed by the wolves and a new leader comes up -- to be killed in his turn .
`` Take him away , '' he said to Father Wolf , `` and train him as befits one of the Free People . ''
And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the price of a bull and on Baloo 's good word .
Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years , and only guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the wolves , because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books .
He grew up with the cubs , though they , of course , were grown wolves almost before he was a child .
And Father Wolf taught him his business , and the meaning of things in the jungle , till every rustle in the grass , every breath of the warm night air , every note of the owls above his head , every scratch of a bat 's claws as it roosted for a while in a tree , and every splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much to him as the work of his office means to a business man .
When he was not learning he sat out in the sun and slept , and ate and went to sleep again .
When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools ; and when he wanted honey -LRB- Baloo told him that honey and nuts were just as pleasant to eat as raw meat -RRB- he climbed up for it , and that Bagheera showed him how to do .
Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call , `` Come along , Little Brother , '' and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth , but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost as boldly as the gray ape .
He took his place at the Council Rock , too , when the Pack met , and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any wolf , the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes , and so he used to stare for fun .
At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads of his friends , for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their coats .
He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night , and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts , but he had a mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it , and told him that it was a trap .
He loved better than anything else to go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest , to sleep all through the drowsy day , and at night see how Bagheera did his killing .
Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry , and so did Mowgli -- with one exception .
As soon as he was old enough to understand things , Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull 's life .
`` All the jungle is thine , '' said Bagheera , `` and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill ; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old .
That is the Law of the Jungle . ''
Mowgli obeyed faithfully .
And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that he is learning any lessons , and who has nothing in the world to think of except things to eat .
Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature to be trusted , and that some day he must kill Shere Khan .
But though a young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour , Mowgli forgot it because he was only a boy -- though he would have called himself a wolf if he had been able to speak in any human tongue .
Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle , for as Akela grew older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with the younger wolves of the Pack , who followed him for scraps , a thing Akela would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the proper bounds .
Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such fine young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a man 's cub .
`` They tell me , '' Shere Khan would say , `` that at Council ye dare not look him between the eyes . ''
And the young wolves would growl and bristle .
Bagheera , who had eyes and ears everywhere , knew something of this , and once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere Khan would kill him some day .
Mowgli would laugh and answer : `` I have the Pack and I have thee ; and Baloo , though he is so lazy , might strike a blow or two for my sake .
Why should I be afraid ? ''
It was one very warm day that a new notion came to Bagheera -- born of something that he had heard .
Perhaps Ikki the Porcupine had told him ; but he said to Mowgli when they were deep in the jungle , as the boy lay with his head on Bagheera 's beautiful black skin , `` Little Brother , how often have I told thee that Shere Khan is thy enemy ? ''
`` As many times as there are nuts on that palm , '' said Mowgli , who , naturally , could not count .
`` What of it ?
I am sleepy , Bagheera , and Shere Khan is all long tail and loud talk -- like Mao , the Peacock . ''
`` But this is no time for sleeping .
Baloo knows it ; I know it ; the Pack know it ; and even the foolish , foolish deer know .
Tabaqui has told thee too . ''
`` Ho !
ho ! ''
said Mowgli .
`` Tabaqui came to me not long ago with some rude talk that I was a naked man 's cub and not fit to dig pig-nuts .
But I caught Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice against a palm-tree to teach him better manners . ''
`` That was foolishness , for though Tabaqui is a mischief-maker , he would have told thee of something that concerned thee closely .
Open those eyes , Little Brother .
Shere Khan dare not kill thee in the jungle .
But remember , Akela is very old , and soon the day comes when he can not kill his buck , and then he will be leader no more .
Many of the wolves that looked thee over when thou wast brought to the Council first are old too , and the young wolves believe , as Shere Khan has taught them , that a man-cub has no place with the Pack .
In a little time thou wilt be a man . ''
`` And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers ? ''
said Mowgli .
`` I was born in the jungle .
I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle , and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn .
Surely they are my brothers ! ''
Bagheera stretched himself at full length and half shut his eyes .
`` Little Brother , '' said he , `` feel under my jaw . ''
Mowgli put up his strong brown hand , and just under Bagheera 's silky chin , where the giant rolling muscles were all hid by the glossy hair , he came upon a little bald spot .
`` There is no one in the jungle that knows that I , Bagheera , carry that mark -- the mark of the collar ; and yet , Little Brother , I was born among men , and it was among men that my mother died -- in the cages of the king 's palace at Oodeypore .
It was because of this that I paid the price for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub .
Yes , I too was born among men .
I had never seen the jungle .
They fed me behind bars from an iron pan till one night I felt that I was Bagheera -- the Panther -- and no man 's plaything , and I broke the silly lock with one blow of my paw and came away .
And because I had learned the ways of men , I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan .
Is it not so ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Mowgli , `` all the jungle fear Bagheera -- all except Mowgli . ''
`` Oh , thou art a man 's cub , '' said the Black Panther very tenderly .
`` And even as I returned to my jungle , so thou must go back to men at last -- to the men who are thy brothers -- if thou art not killed in the Council . ''
`` But why -- but why should any wish to kill me ? ''
said Mowgli .
`` Look at me , '' said Bagheera .
And Mowgli looked at him steadily between the eyes .
The big panther turned his head away in half a minute .
`` That is why , '' he said , shifting his paw on the leaves .
`` Not even I can look thee between the eyes , and I was born among men , and I love thee , Little Brother .
The others they hate thee because their eyes can not meet thine ; because thou art wise ; because thou hast pulled out thorns from their feet -- because thou art a man . ''
`` I did not know these things , '' said Mowgli sullenly , and he frowned under his heavy black eyebrows .
`` What is the Law of the Jungle ?
Strike first and then give tongue .
By thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man .
But be wise .
It is in my heart that when Akela misses his next kill -- and at each hunt it costs him more to pin the buck -- the Pack will turn against him and against thee .
They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock , and then -- and then -- I have it ! ''
said Bagheera , leaping up .
`` Go thou down quickly to the men 's huts in the valley , and take some of the Red Flower which they grow there , so that when the time comes thou mayest have even a stronger friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love thee .
Get the Red Flower . ''
By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire , only no creature in the jungle will call fire by its proper name .
Every beast lives in deadly fear of it , and invents a hundred ways of describing it .
`` The Red Flower ? ''
said Mowgli .
`` That grows outside their huts in the twilight .
I will get some . ''
`` There speaks the man 's cub , '' said Bagheera proudly .
`` Remember that it grows in little pots .
Get one swiftly , and keep it by thee for time of need . ''
`` Good ! ''
said Mowgli .
`` I go .
But art thou sure , O my Bagheera '' -- he slipped his arm around the splendid neck and looked deep into the big eyes -- `` art thou sure that all this is Shere Khan 's doing ? ''
`` By the Broken Lock that freed me , I am sure , Little Brother . ''
`` Then , by the Bull that bought me , I will pay Shere Khan full tale for this , and it may be a little over , '' said Mowgli , and he bounded away .
`` That is a man .
That is all a man , '' said Bagheera to himself , lying down again .
`` Oh , Shere Khan , never was a blacker hunting than that frog-hunt of thine ten years ago ! ''
Mowgli was far and far through the forest , running hard , and his heart was hot in him .
He came to the cave as the evening mist rose , and drew breath , and looked down the valley .
The cubs were out , but Mother Wolf , at the back of the cave , knew by his breathing that something was troubling her frog .
`` What is it , Son ? ''
she said .
`` Some bat 's chatter of Shere Khan , '' he called back .
`` I hunt among the plowed fields tonight , '' and he plunged downward through the bushes , to the stream at the bottom of the valley .
There he checked , for he heard the yell of the Pack hunting , heard the bellow of a hunted Sambhur , and the snort as the buck turned at bay .
Then there were wicked , bitter howls from the young wolves : `` Akela !
Akela !
Let the Lone Wolf show his strength .
Room for the leader of the Pack !
Spring , Akela ! ''
The Lone Wolf must have sprung and missed his hold , for Mowgli heard the snap of his teeth and then a yelp as the Sambhur knocked him over with his forefoot .
He did not wait for anything more , but dashed on ; and the yells grew fainter behind him as he ran into the croplands where the villagers lived .
`` Bagheera spoke truth , '' he panted , as he nestled down in some cattle fodder by the window of a hut .
`` To-morrow is one day both for Akela and for me . ''
Then he pressed his face close to the window and watched the fire on the hearth .
He saw the husbandman 's wife get up and feed it in the night with black lumps .
And when the morning came and the mists were all white and cold , he saw the man 's child pick up a wicker pot plastered inside with earth , fill it with lumps of red-hot charcoal , put it under his blanket , and go out to tend the cows in the byre .
`` Is that all ? ''
said Mowgli .
`` If a cub can do it , there is nothing to fear . ''
So he strode round the corner and met the boy , took the pot from his hand , and disappeared into the mist while the boy howled with fear .
`` They are very like me , '' said Mowgli , blowing into the pot as he had seen the woman do .
`` This thing will die if I do not give it things to eat '' ; and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red stuff .
Halfway up the hill he met Bagheera with the morning dew shining like moonstones on his coat .
`` Akela has missed , '' said the Panther .
`` They would have killed him last night , but they needed thee also .
They were looking for thee on the hill . ''
`` I was among the plowed lands .
I am ready .
See ! ''
Mowgli held up the fire-pot .
`` Good !
Now , I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that stuff , and presently the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it .
Art thou not afraid ? ''
`` No .
Why should I fear ?
I remember now -- if it is not a dream -- how , before I was a Wolf , I lay beside the Red Flower , and it was warm and pleasant . ''
All that day Mowgli sat in the cave tending his fire pot and dipping dry branches into it to see how they looked .
He found a branch that satisfied him , and in the evening when Tabaqui came to the cave and told him rudely enough that he was wanted at the Council Rock , he laughed till Tabaqui ran away .
Then Mowgli went to the Council , still laughing .
Akela the Lone Wolf lay by the side of his rock as a sign that the leadership of the Pack was open , and Shere Khan with his following of scrap-fed wolves walked to and fro openly being flattered .
Bagheera lay close to Mowgli , and the fire pot was between Mowgli 's knees .
When they were all gathered together , Shere Khan began to speak -- a thing he would never have dared to do when Akela was in his prime .
`` He has no right , '' whispered Bagheera .
`` Say so .
He is a dog 's son .
He will be frightened . ''
Mowgli sprang to his feet .
`` Free People , '' he cried , `` does Shere Khan lead the Pack ?
What has a tiger to do with our leadership ? ''
`` Seeing that the leadership is yet open , and being asked to speak -- '' Shere Khan began .
`` By whom ? ''
said Mowgli .
`` Are we all jackals , to fawn on this cattle butcher ?
The leadership of the Pack is with the Pack alone . ''
There were yells of `` Silence , thou man 's cub ! ''
`` Let him speak .
He has kept our Law '' ; and at last the seniors of the Pack thundered : `` Let the Dead Wolf speak . ''
When a leader of the Pack has missed his kill , he is called the Dead Wolf as long as he lives , which is not long .
Akela raised his old head wearily : -- `` Free People , and ye too , jackals of Shere Khan , for twelve seasons I have led ye to and from the kill , and in all that time not one has been trapped or maimed .
Now I have missed my kill .
Ye know how that plot was made .
Ye know how ye brought me up to an untried buck to make my weakness known .
It was cleverly done .
Your right is to kill me here on the Council Rock , now .
Therefore , I ask , who comes to make an end of the Lone Wolf ?
For it is my right , by the Law of the Jungle , that ye come one by one . ''
There was a long hush , for no single wolf cared to fight Akela to the death .
Then Shere Khan roared : `` Bah !
What have we to do with this toothless fool ?
He is doomed to die !
It is the man-cub who has lived too long .
Free People , he was my meat from the first .
Give him to me .
I am weary of this man-wolf folly .
He has troubled the jungle for ten seasons .
Give me the man-cub , or I will hunt here always , and not give you one bone .
He is a man , a man 's child , and from the marrow of my bones I hate him ! ''
Then more than half the Pack yelled : `` A man !
A man !
What has a man to do with us ?
Let him go to his own place . ''
`` And turn all the people of the villages against us ? ''
clamored Shere Khan .
`` No , give him to me .
He is a man , and none of us can look him between the eyes . ''
Akela lifted his head again and said , `` He has eaten our food .
He has slept with us .
He has driven game for us .
He has broken no word of the Law of the Jungle . ''
`` Also , I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted .
The worth of a bull is little , but Bagheera 's honor is something that he will perhaps fight for , '' said Bagheera in his gentlest voice .
`` A bull paid ten years ago ! ''
the Pack snarled .
`` What do we care for bones ten years old ? ''
`` Or for a pledge ? ''
said Bagheera , his white teeth bared under his lip .
`` Well are ye called the Free People ! ''
`` No man 's cub can run with the people of the jungle , '' howled Shere Khan .
`` Give him to me ! ''
`` He is our brother in all but blood , '' Akela went on , `` and ye would kill him here !
In truth , I have lived too long .
Some of ye are eaters of cattle , and of others I have heard that , under Shere Khan 's teaching , ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager 's doorstep .
Therefore I know ye to be cowards , and it is to cowards I speak .
It is certain that I must die , and my life is of no worth , or I would offer that in the man-cub 's place .
But for the sake of the Honor of the Pack , -- a little matter that by being without a leader ye have forgotten , -- I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place , I will not , when my time comes to die , bare one tooth against ye .
I will die without fighting .
That will at least save the Pack three lives .
More I can not do ; but if ye will , I can save ye the shame that comes of killing a brother against whom there is no fault -- a brother spoken for and bought into the Pack according to the Law of the Jungle . ''
`` He is a man -- a man -- a man ! ''
snarled the Pack .
And most of the wolves began to gather round Shere Khan , whose tail was beginning to switch .
`` Now the business is in thy hands , '' said Bagheera to Mowgli .
`` We can do no more except fight . ''
Mowgli stood upright -- the fire pot in his hands .
Then he stretched out his arms , and yawned in the face of the Council ; but he was furious with rage and sorrow , for , wolflike , the wolves had never told him how they hated him .
`` Listen you ! ''
he cried .
`` There is no need for this dog 's jabber .
Ye have told me so often tonight that I am a man -LRB- and indeed I would have been a wolf with you to my life 's end -RRB- that I feel your words are true .
So I do not call ye my brothers any more , but sag -LSB- dogs -RSB- , as a man should .
What ye will do , and what ye will not do , is not yours to say .
That matter is with me ; and that we may see the matter more plainly , I , the man , have brought here a little of the Red Flower which ye , dogs , fear . ''
He flung the fire pot on the ground , and some of the red coals lit a tuft of dried moss that flared up , as all the Council drew back in terror before the leaping flames .
Mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twigs lit and crackled , and whirled it above his head among the cowering wolves .
`` Thou art the master , '' said Bagheera in an undertone .
`` Save Akela from the death .
He was ever thy friend . ''
Akela , the grim old wolf who had never asked for mercy in his life , gave one piteous look at Mowgli as the boy stood all naked , his long black hair tossing over his shoulders in the light of the blazing branch that made the shadows jump and quiver .
`` Good ! ''
said Mowgli , staring round slowly .
`` I see that ye are dogs .
I go from you to my own people -- if they be my own people .
The jungle is shut to me , and I must forget your talk and your companionship .
But I will be more merciful than ye are .
Because I was all but your brother in blood , I promise that when I am a man among men I will not betray ye to men as ye have betrayed me . ''
He kicked the fire with his foot , and the sparks flew up .
`` There shall be no war between any of us in the Pack .
But here is a debt to pay before I go . ''
He strode forward to where Shere Khan sat blinking stupidly at the flames , and caught him by the tuft on his chin .
Bagheera followed in case of accidents .
`` Up , dog ! ''
Mowgli cried .
`` Up , when a man speaks , or I will set that coat ablaze ! ''
Shere Khan 's ears lay flat back on his head , and he shut his eyes , for the blazing branch was very near .
`` This cattle-killer said he would kill me in the Council because he had not killed me when I was a cub .
Thus and thus , then , do we beat dogs when we are men .
Stir a whisker , Lungri , and I ram the Red Flower down thy gullet ! ''
He beat Shere Khan over the head with the branch , and the tiger whimpered and whined in an agony of fear .
`` Pah !
Singed jungle cat -- go now !
But remember when next I come to the Council Rock , as a man should come , it will be with Shere Khan 's hide on my head .
For the rest , Akela goes free to live as he pleases .
Ye will not kill him , because that is not my will .
Nor do I think that ye will sit here any longer , lolling out your tongues as though ye were somebodies , instead of dogs whom I drive out -- thus !
Go ! ''
The fire was burning furiously at the end of the branch , and Mowgli struck right and left round the circle , and the wolves ran howling with the sparks burning their fur .
At last there were only Akela , Bagheera , and perhaps ten wolves that had taken Mowgli 's part .
Then something began to hurt Mowgli inside him , as he had never been hurt in his life before , and he caught his breath and sobbed , and the tears ran down his face .
`` What is it ?
What is it ? ''
he said .
`` I do not wish to leave the jungle , and I do not know what this is .
Am I dying , Bagheera ? ''
`` No , Little Brother .
That is only tears such as men use , '' said Bagheera .
`` Now I know thou art a man , and a man 's cub no longer .
The jungle is shut indeed to thee henceforward .
Let them fall , Mowgli .
They are only tears . ''
So Mowgli sat and cried as though his heart would break ; and he had never cried in all his life before .
`` Now , '' he said , `` I will go to men .
But first I must say farewell to my mother . ''
And he went to the cave where she lived with Father Wolf , and he cried on her coat , while the four cubs howled miserably .
`` Ye will not forget me ? ''
said Mowgli .
`` Never while we can follow a trail , '' said the cubs .
`` Come to the foot of the hill when thou art a man , and we will talk to thee ; and we will come into the croplands to play with thee by night . ''
`` Come soon ! ''
said Father Wolf .
`` Oh , wise little frog , come again soon ; for we be old , thy mother and I. '' `` Come soon , '' said Mother Wolf , `` little naked son of mine .
For , listen , child of man , I loved thee more than ever I loved my cubs . ''
`` I will surely come , '' said Mowgli .
`` And when I come it will be to lay out Shere Khan 's hide upon the Council Rock .
Do not forget me !
Tell them in the jungle never to forget me ! ''
The dawn was beginning to break when Mowgli went down the hillside alone , to meet those mysterious things that are called men .
Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled Once , twice and again !
And a doe leaped up , and a doe leaped up From the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup .
This I , scouting alone , beheld , Once , twice and again !
As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled Once , twice and again !
And a wolf stole back , and a wolf stole back To carry the word to the waiting pack , And we sought and we found and we bayed on his track Once , twice and again !
As the dawn was breaking the Wolf Pack yelled Once , twice and again !
Feet in the jungle that leave no mark !
Eyes that can see in the dark -- the dark !
Tongue -- give tongue to it !
Hark !
O hark !
Once , twice and again !
Kaa 's Hunting His spots are the joy of the Leopard : his horns are the Buffalo 's pride .
Be clean , for the strength of the hunter is known by the gloss of his hide .
If ye find that the Bullock can toss you , or the heavy-browed Sambhur can gore ; Ye need not stop work to inform us : we knew it ten seasons before .
Oppress not the cubs of the stranger , but hail them as Sister and Brother , For though they are little and fubsy , it may be the Bear is their mother .
`` There is none like to me ! ''
says the Cub in the pride of his earliest kill ; But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small .
Let him think and be still .
Maxims of Baloo All that is told here happened some time before Mowgli was turned out of the Seeonee Wolf Pack , or revenged himself on Shere Khan the tiger .
It was in the days when Baloo was teaching him the Law of the Jungle .
The big , serious , old brown bear was delighted to have so quick a pupil , for the young wolves will only learn as much of the Law of the Jungle as applies to their own pack and tribe , and run away as soon as they can repeat the Hunting Verse -- `` Feet that make no noise ; eyes that can see in the dark ; ears that can hear the winds in their lairs , and sharp white teeth , all these things are the marks of our brothers except Tabaqui the Jackal and the Hyaena whom we hate . ''
But Mowgli , as a man-cub , had to learn a great deal more than this .
Sometimes Bagheera the Black Panther would come lounging through the jungle to see how his pet was getting on , and would purr with his head against a tree while Mowgli recited the day 's lesson to Baloo .
The boy could climb almost as well as he could swim , and swim almost as well as he could run .
So Baloo , the Teacher of the Law , taught him the Wood and Water Laws : how to tell a rotten branch from a sound one ; how to speak politely to the wild bees when he came upon a hive of them fifty feet above ground ; what to say to Mang the Bat when he disturbed him in the branches at midday ; and how to warn the water-snakes in the pools before he splashed down among them .
None of the Jungle People like being disturbed , and all are very ready to fly at an intruder .
Then , too , Mowgli was taught the Strangers ' Hunting Call , which must be repeated aloud till it is answered , whenever one of the Jungle-People hunts outside his own grounds .
It means , translated , `` Give me leave to hunt here because I am hungry . ''
And the answer is , `` Hunt then for food , but not for pleasure . ''
All this will show you how much Mowgli had to learn by heart , and he grew very tired of saying the same thing over a hundred times .
But , as Baloo said to Bagheera , one day when Mowgli had been cuffed and run off in a temper , `` A man 's cub is a man 's cub , and he must learn all the Law of the Jungle . ''
`` But think how small he is , '' said the Black Panther , who would have spoiled Mowgli if he had had his own way .
`` How can his little head carry all thy long talk ? ''
`` Is there anything in the jungle too little to be killed ?
No .
That is why I teach him these things , and that is why I hit him , very softly , when he forgets . ''
`` Softly !
What dost thou know of softness , old Iron-feet ? ''
Bagheera grunted .
`` His face is all bruised today by thy -- softness .
Ugh . ''
`` Better he should be bruised from head to foot by me who love him than that he should come to harm through ignorance , '' Baloo answered very earnestly .
`` I am now teaching him the Master Words of the Jungle that shall protect him with the birds and the Snake People , and all that hunt on four feet , except his own pack .
He can now claim protection , if he will only remember the words , from all in the jungle .
Is not that worth a little beating ? ''
`` Well , look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub .
He is no tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claws upon .
But what are those Master Words ?
I am more likely to give help than to ask it '' -- Bagheera stretched out one paw and admired the steel-blue , ripping-chisel talons at the end of it -- `` still I should like to know . ''
`` I will call Mowgli and he shall say them -- if he will .
Come , Little Brother ! ''
`` My head is ringing like a bee tree , '' said a sullen little voice over their heads , and Mowgli slid down a tree trunk very angry and indignant , adding as he reached the ground : `` I come for Bagheera and not for thee , fat old Baloo ! ''
`` That is all one to me , '' said Baloo , though he was hurt and grieved .
`` Tell Bagheera , then , the Master Words of the Jungle that I have taught thee this day . ''
`` Master Words for which people ? ''
said Mowgli , delighted to show off .
`` The jungle has many tongues .
I know them all . ''
`` A little thou knowest , but not much .
See , O Bagheera , they never thank their teacher .
Not one small wolfling has ever come back to thank old Baloo for his teachings .
Say the word for the Hunting-People , then -- great scholar . ''
`` We be of one blood , ye and I , '' said Mowgli , giving the words the Bear accent which all the Hunting People use .
`` Good .
Now for the birds . ''
Mowgli repeated , with the Kite 's whistle at the end of the sentence .
`` Now for the Snake-People , '' said Bagheera .
The answer was a perfectly indescribable hiss , and Mowgli kicked up his feet behind , clapped his hands together to applaud himself , and jumped on to Bagheera 's back , where he sat sideways , drumming with his heels on the glossy skin and making the worst faces he could think of at Baloo .
`` There -- there !
That was worth a little bruise , '' said the brown bear tenderly .
`` Some day thou wilt remember me . ''
Then he turned aside to tell Bagheera how he had begged the Master Words from Hathi the Wild Elephant , who knows all about these things , and how Hathi had taken Mowgli down to a pool to get the Snake Word from a water-snake , because Baloo could not pronounce it , and how Mowgli was now reasonably safe against all accidents in the jungle , because neither snake , bird , nor beast would hurt him .
`` No one then is to be feared , '' Baloo wound up , patting his big furry stomach with pride .
`` Except his own tribe , '' said Bagheera , under his breath ; and then aloud to Mowgli , `` Have a care for my ribs , Little Brother !
What is all this dancing up and down ? ''
Mowgli had been trying to make himself heard by pulling at Bagheera 's shoulder fur and kicking hard .
When the two listened to him he was shouting at the top of his voice , `` And so I shall have a tribe of my own , and lead them through the branches all day long . ''
`` What is this new folly , little dreamer of dreams ? ''
said Bagheera .
`` Yes , and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo , '' Mowgli went on .
`` They have promised me this .
Ah ! ''
`` Whoof ! ''
Baloo 's big paw scooped Mowgli off Bagheera 's back , and as the boy lay between the big fore-paws he could see the Bear was angry .
`` Mowgli , '' said Baloo , `` thou hast been talking with the Bandar-log -- the Monkey People . ''
Mowgli looked at Bagheera to see if the Panther was angry too , and Bagheera 's eyes were as hard as jade stones .
`` Thou hast been with the Monkey People -- the gray apes -- the people without a law -- the eaters of everything .
That is great shame . ''
`` When Baloo hurt my head , '' said Mowgli -LRB- he was still on his back -RRB- , `` I went away , and the gray apes came down from the trees and had pity on me .
No one else cared . ''
He snuffled a little .
`` The pity of the Monkey People ! ''
Baloo snorted .
`` The stillness of the mountain stream !
The cool of the summer sun !
And then , man-cub ? ''
`` And then , and then , they gave me nuts and pleasant things to eat , and they -- they carried me in their arms up to the top of the trees and said I was their blood brother except that I had no tail , and should be their leader some day . ''
`` They have no leader , '' said Bagheera .
`` They lie .
They have always lied . ''
`` They were very kind and bade me come again .
Why have I never been taken among the Monkey People ?
They stand on their feet as I do .
They do not hit me with their hard paws .
They play all day .
Let me get up !
Bad Baloo , let me up !
I will play with them again . ''
`` Listen , man-cub , '' said the Bear , and his voice rumbled like thunder on a hot night .
`` I have taught thee all the Law of the Jungle for all the peoples of the jungle -- except the Monkey-Folk who live in the trees .
They have no law .
They are outcasts .
They have no speech of their own , but use the stolen words which they overhear when they listen , and peep , and wait up above in the branches .
Their way is not our way .
They are without leaders .
They have no remembrance .
They boast and chatter and pretend that they are a great people about to do great affairs in the jungle , but the falling of a nut turns their minds to laughter and all is forgotten .
We of the jungle have no dealings with them .
We do not drink where the monkeys drink ; we do not go where the monkeys go ; we do not hunt where they hunt ; we do not die where they die .
Hast thou ever heard me speak of the Bandar-log till today ? ''
`` No , '' said Mowgli in a whisper , for the forest was very still now Baloo had finished .
`` The Jungle-People put them out of their mouths and out of their minds .
They are very many , evil , dirty , shameless , and they desire , if they have any fixed desire , to be noticed by the Jungle People .
But we do not notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads . ''
He had hardly spoken when a shower of nuts and twigs spattered down through the branches ; and they could hear coughings and howlings and angry jumpings high up in the air among the thin branches .
`` The Monkey-People are forbidden , '' said Baloo , `` forbidden to the Jungle-People .
Remember . ''
`` Forbidden , '' said Bagheera , `` but I still think Baloo should have warned thee against them . ''
`` I -- I ?
How was I to guess he would play with such dirt .
The Monkey People !
Faugh ! ''
A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away , taking Mowgli with them .
What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly true .
They belonged to the tree-tops , and as beasts very seldom look up , there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle-People to cross each other 's path .
But whenever they found a sick wolf , or a wounded tiger , or bear , the monkeys would torment him , and would throw sticks and nuts at any beast for fun and in the hope of being noticed .
Then they would howl and shriek senseless songs , and invite the Jungle-People to climb up their trees and fight them , or would start furious battles over nothing among themselves , and leave the dead monkeys where the Jungle-People could see them .
They were always just going to have a leader , and laws and customs of their own , but they never did , because their memories would not hold over from day to day , and so they compromised things by making up a saying , `` What the Bandar-log think now the jungle will think later , '' and that comforted them a great deal .
None of the beasts could reach them , but on the other hand none of the beasts would notice them , and that was why they were so pleased when Mowgli came to play with them , and they heard how angry Baloo was .
They never meant to do any more -- the Bandar-log never mean anything at all ; but one of them invented what seemed to him a brilliant idea , and he told all the others that Mowgli would be a useful person to keep in the tribe , because he could weave sticks together for protection from the wind ; so , if they caught him , they could make him teach them .
Of course Mowgli , as a woodcutter 's child , inherited all sorts of instincts , and used to make little huts of fallen branches without thinking how he came to do it .
The Monkey-People , watching in the trees , considered his play most wonderful .
This time , they said , they were really going to have a leader and become the wisest people in the jungle -- so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them .
Therefore they followed Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the jungle very quietly till it was time for the midday nap , and Mowgli , who was very much ashamed of himself , slept between the Panther and the Bear , resolving to have no more to do with the Monkey People .
The next thing he remembered was feeling hands on his legs and arms -- hard , strong , little hands -- and then a swash of branches in his face , and then he was staring down through the swaying boughs as Baloo woke the jungle with his deep cries and Bagheera bounded up the trunk with every tooth bared .
The Bandar-log howled with triumph and scuffled away to the upper branches where Bagheera dared not follow , shouting : `` He has noticed us !
Bagheera has noticed us .
All the Jungle-People admire us for our skill and our cunning . ''
Then they began their flight ; and the flight of the Monkey-People through tree-land is one of the things nobody can describe .
They have their regular roads and crossroads , up hills and down hills , all laid out from fifty to seventy or a hundred feet above ground , and by these they can travel even at night if necessary .
Two of the strongest monkeys caught Mowgli under the arms and swung off with him through the treetops , twenty feet at a bound .
Had they been alone they could have gone twice as fast , but the boy 's weight held them back .
Sick and giddy as Mowgli was he could not help enjoying the wild rush , though the glimpses of earth far down below frightened him , and the terrible check and jerk at the end of the swing over nothing but empty air brought his heart between his teeth .
His escort would rush him up a tree till he felt the thinnest topmost branches crackle and bend under them , and then with a cough and a whoop would fling themselves into the air outward and downward , and bring up , hanging by their hands or their feet to the lower limbs of the next tree .
Sometimes he could see for miles and miles across the still green jungle , as a man on the top of a mast can see for miles across the sea , and then the branches and leaves would lash him across the face , and he and his two guards would be almost down to earth again .
So , bounding and crashing and whooping and yelling , the whole tribe of Bandar-log swept along the tree-roads with Mowgli their prisoner .
For a time he was afraid of being dropped .
Then he grew angry but knew better than to struggle , and then he began to think .
The first thing was to send back word to Baloo and Bagheera , for , at the pace the monkeys were going , he knew his friends would be left far behind .
It was useless to look down , for he could only see the topsides of the branches , so he stared upward and saw , far away in the blue , Rann the Kite balancing and wheeling as he kept watch over the jungle waiting for things to die .
Rann saw that the monkeys were carrying something , and dropped a few hundred yards to find out whether their load was good to eat .
He whistled with surprise when he saw Mowgli being dragged up to a treetop and heard him give the Kite call for -- `` We be of one blood , thou and I. '' The waves of the branches closed over the boy , but Rann balanced away to the next tree in time to see the little brown face come up again .
`` Mark my trail ! ''
Mowgli shouted .
`` Tell Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera of the Council Rock . ''
`` In whose name , Brother ? ''
Rann had never seen Mowgli before , though of course he had heard of him .
`` Mowgli , the Frog .
Man-cub they call me !
Mark my trail ! ''
The last words were shrieked as he was being swung through the air , but Rann nodded and rose up till he looked no bigger than a speck of dust , and there he hung , watching with his telescope eyes the swaying of the treetops as Mowgli 's escort whirled along .
`` They never go far , '' he said with a chuckle .
`` They never do what they set out to do .
Always pecking at new things are the Bandar-log .
This time , if I have any eye-sight , they have pecked down trouble for themselves , for Baloo is no fledgling and Bagheera can , as I know , kill more than goats . ''
So he rocked on his wings , his feet gathered up under him , and waited .
Meantime , Baloo and Bagheera were furious with rage and grief .
Bagheera climbed as he had never climbed before , but the thin branches broke beneath his weight , and he slipped down , his claws full of bark .
`` Why didst thou not warn the man-cub ? ''
he roared to poor Baloo , who had set off at a clumsy trot in the hope of overtaking the monkeys .
`` What was the use of half slaying him with blows if thou didst not warn him ? ''
`` Haste !
O haste !
We -- we may catch them yet ! ''
Baloo panted .
`` At that speed !
It would not tire a wounded cow .
Teacher of the Law -- cub-beater -- a mile of that rolling to and fro would burst thee open .
Sit still and think !
Make a plan .
This is no time for chasing .
They may drop him if we follow too close . ''
`` Arrula !
Whoo !
They may have dropped him already , being tired of carrying him .
Who can trust the Bandar-log ?
Put dead bats on my head !
Give me black bones to eat !
Roll me into the hives of the wild bees that I may be stung to death , and bury me with the Hyaena , for I am most miserable of bears !
Arulala !
Wahooa !
O Mowgli , Mowgli !
Why did I not warn thee against the Monkey-Folk instead of breaking thy head ?
Now perhaps I may have knocked the day 's lesson out of his mind , and he will be alone in the jungle without the Master Words . ''
Baloo clasped his paws over his ears and rolled to and fro moaning .
`` At least he gave me all the Words correctly a little time ago , '' said Bagheera impatiently .
`` Baloo , thou hast neither memory nor respect .
What would the jungle think if I , the Black Panther , curled myself up like Ikki the Porcupine , and howled ? ''
`` What do I care what the jungle thinks ?
He may be dead by now . ''
`` Unless and until they drop him from the branches in sport , or kill him out of idleness , I have no fear for the man-cub .
He is wise and well taught , and above all he has the eyes that make the Jungle-People afraid .
But -LRB- and it is a great evil -RRB- he is in the power of the Bandar-log , and they , because they live in trees , have no fear of any of our people . ''
Bagheera licked one forepaw thoughtfully .
`` Fool that I am !
Oh , fat , brown , root-digging fool that I am , '' said Baloo , uncoiling himself with a jerk , `` it is true what Hathi the Wild Elephant says : ` To each his own fear ' ; and they , the Bandar-log , fear Kaa the Rock Snake .
He can climb as well as they can .
He steals the young monkeys in the night .
The whisper of his name makes their wicked tails cold .
Let us go to Kaa . ''
`` What will he do for us ?
He is not of our tribe , being footless -- and with most evil eyes , '' said Bagheera .
`` He is very old and very cunning .
Above all , he is always hungry , '' said Baloo hopefully .
`` Promise him many goats . ''
`` He sleeps for a full month after he has once eaten .
He may be asleep now , and even were he awake what if he would rather kill his own goats ? ''
Bagheera , who did not know much about Kaa , was naturally suspicious .
`` Then in that case , thou and I together , old hunter , might make him see reason . ''
Here Baloo rubbed his faded brown shoulder against the Panther , and they went off to look for Kaa the Rock Python .
They found him stretched out on a warm ledge in the afternoon sun , admiring his beautiful new coat , for he had been in retirement for the last ten days changing his skin , and now he was very splendid -- darting his big blunt-nosed head along the ground , and twisting the thirty feet of his body into fantastic knots and curves , and licking his lips as he thought of his dinner to come .
`` He has not eaten , '' said Baloo , with a grunt of relief , as soon as he saw the beautifully mottled brown and yellow jacket .
`` Be careful , Bagheera !
He is always a little blind after he has changed his skin , and very quick to strike . ''
Kaa was not a poison snake -- in fact he rather despised the poison snakes as cowards -- but his strength lay in his hug , and when he had once lapped his huge coils round anybody there was no more to be said .
`` Good hunting ! ''
cried Baloo , sitting up on his haunches .
Like all snakes of his breed Kaa was rather deaf , and did not hear the call at first .
Then he curled up ready for any accident , his head lowered .
`` Good hunting for us all , '' he answered .
`` Oho , Baloo , what dost thou do here ?
Good hunting , Bagheera .
One of us at least needs food .
Is there any news of game afoot ?
A doe now , or even a young buck ?
I am as empty as a dried well . ''
`` We are hunting , '' said Baloo carelessly .
He knew that you must not hurry Kaa .
He is too big .
`` Give me permission to come with you , '' said Kaa .
`` A blow more or less is nothing to thee , Bagheera or Baloo , but I -- I have to wait and wait for days in a wood-path and climb half a night on the mere chance of a young ape .
Psshaw !
The branches are not what they were when I was young .
Rotten twigs and dry boughs are they all . ''
`` Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter , '' said Baloo .
`` I am a fair length -- a fair length , '' said Kaa with a little pride .
`` But for all that , it is the fault of this new-grown timber .
I came very near to falling on my last hunt -- very near indeed -- and the noise of my slipping , for my tail was not tight wrapped around the tree , waked the Bandar-log , and they called me most evil names . ''
`` Footless , yellow earth-worm , '' said Bagheera under his whiskers , as though he were trying to remember something .
`` Sssss !
Have they ever called me that ? ''
said Kaa .
`` Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last moon , but we never noticed them .
They will say anything -- even that thou hast lost all thy teeth , and wilt not face anything bigger than a kid , because -LRB- they are indeed shameless , these Bandar-log -RRB- -- because thou art afraid of the he-goat 's horns , '' Bagheera went on sweetly .
Now a snake , especially a wary old python like Kaa , very seldom shows that he is angry , but Baloo and Bagheera could see the big swallowing muscles on either side of Kaa 's throat ripple and bulge .
`` The Bandar-log have shifted their grounds , '' he said quietly .
`` When I came up into the sun today I heard them whooping among the tree-tops . ''
`` It -- it is the Bandar-log that we follow now , '' said Baloo , but the words stuck in his throat , for that was the first time in his memory that one of the Jungle-People had owned to being interested in the doings of the monkeys .
`` Beyond doubt then it is no small thing that takes two such hunters -- leaders in their own jungle I am certain -- on the trail of the Bandar-log , '' Kaa replied courteously , as he swelled with curiosity .
`` Indeed , '' Baloo began , `` I am no more than the old and sometimes very foolish Teacher of the Law to the Seeonee wolf-cubs , and Bagheera here -- '' `` Is Bagheera , '' said the Black Panther , and his jaws shut with a snap , for he did not believe in being humble .
`` The trouble is this , Kaa .
Those nut-stealers and pickers of palm leaves have stolen away our man-cub of whom thou hast perhaps heard . ''
`` I heard some news from Ikki -LRB- his quills make him presumptuous -RRB- of a man-thing that was entered into a wolf pack , but I did not believe .
Ikki is full of stories half heard and very badly told . ''
`` But it is true .
He is such a man-cub as never was , '' said Baloo .
`` The best and wisest and boldest of man-cubs -- my own pupil , who shall make the name of Baloo famous through all the jungles ; and besides , I -- we -- love him , Kaa . ''
`` Ts !
Ts ! ''
said Kaa , weaving his head to and fro .
`` I also have known what love is .
There are tales I could tell that -- '' `` That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise properly , '' said Bagheera quickly .
`` Our man-cub is in the hands of the Bandar-log now , and we know that of all the Jungle-People they fear Kaa alone . ''
`` They fear me alone .
They have good reason , '' said Kaa .
`` Chattering , foolish , vain -- vain , foolish , and chattering , are the monkeys .
But a man-thing in their hands is in no good luck .
They grow tired of the nuts they pick , and throw them down .
They carry a branch half a day , meaning to do great things with it , and then they snap it in two .
That man-thing is not to be envied .
They called me also -- ` yellow fish ' was it not ? ''
`` Worm -- worm -- earth-worm , '' said Bagheera , `` as well as other things which I can not now say for shame . ''
`` We must remind them to speak well of their master .
Aaa-ssp !
We must help their wandering memories .
Now , whither went they with the cub ? ''
`` The jungle alone knows .
Toward the sunset , I believe , '' said Baloo .
`` We had thought that thou wouldst know , Kaa . ''
`` I ?
How ?
I take them when they come in my way , but I do not hunt the Bandar-log , or frogs -- or green scum on a water-hole , for that matter . ''
`` Up , Up !
Up , Up !
Hillo !
Illo !
Illo , look up , Baloo of the Seeonee Wolf Pack ! ''
Baloo looked up to see where the voice came from , and there was Rann the Kite , sweeping down with the sun shining on the upturned flanges of his wings .
It was near Rann 's bedtime , but he had ranged all over the jungle looking for the Bear and had missed him in the thick foliage .
`` What is it ? ''
said Baloo .
`` I have seen Mowgli among the Bandar-log .
He bade me tell you .
I watched .
The Bandar-log have taken him beyond the river to the monkey city -- to the Cold Lairs .
They may stay there for a night , or ten nights , or an hour .
I have told the bats to watch through the dark time .
That is my message .
Good hunting , all you below ! ''
`` Full gorge and a deep sleep to you , Rann , '' cried Bagheera .
`` I will remember thee in my next kill , and put aside the head for thee alone , O best of kites ! ''
`` It is nothing .
It is nothing .
The boy held the Master Word .
I could have done no less , '' and Rann circled up again to his roost .
`` He has not forgotten to use his tongue , '' said Baloo with a chuckle of pride .
`` To think of one so young remembering the Master Word for the birds too while he was being pulled across trees ! ''
`` It was most firmly driven into him , '' said Bagheera .
`` But I am proud of him , and now we must go to the Cold Lairs . ''
They all knew where that place was , but few of the Jungle People ever went there , because what they called the Cold Lairs was an old deserted city , lost and buried in the jungle , and beasts seldom use a place that men have once used .
The wild boar will , but the hunting tribes do not .
Besides , the monkeys lived there as much as they could be said to live anywhere , and no self-respecting animal would come within eyeshot of it except in times of drought , when the half-ruined tanks and reservoirs held a little water .
`` It is half a night 's journey -- at full speed , '' said Bagheera , and Baloo looked very serious .
`` I will go as fast as I can , '' he said anxiously .
`` We dare not wait for thee .
Follow , Baloo .
We must go on the quick-foot -- Kaa and I. '' `` Feet or no feet , I can keep abreast of all thy four , '' said Kaa shortly .
Baloo made one effort to hurry , but had to sit down panting , and so they left him to come on later , while Bagheera hurried forward , at the quick panther-canter .
Kaa said nothing , but , strive as Bagheera might , the huge Rock-python held level with him .
When they came to a hill stream , Bagheera gained , because he bounded across while Kaa swam , his head and two feet of his neck clearing the water , but on level ground Kaa made up the distance .
`` By the Broken Lock that freed me , '' said Bagheera , when twilight had fallen , `` thou art no slow goer ! ''
`` I am hungry , '' said Kaa .
`` Besides , they called me speckled frog . ''
`` Worm -- earth-worm , and yellow to boot . ''
`` All one .
Let us go on , '' and Kaa seemed to pour himself along the ground , finding the shortest road with his steady eyes , and keeping to it .
In the Cold Lairs the Monkey-People were not thinking of Mowgli 's friends at all .
They had brought the boy to the Lost City , and were very much pleased with themselves for the time .
Mowgli had never seen an Indian city before , and though this was almost a heap of ruins it seemed very wonderful and splendid .
Some king had built it long ago on a little hill .
You could still trace the stone causeways that led up to the ruined gates where the last splinters of wood hung to the worn , rusted hinges .
Trees had grown into and out of the walls ; the battlements were tumbled down and decayed , and wild creepers hung out of the windows of the towers on the walls in bushy hanging clumps .
A great roofless palace crowned the hill , and the marble of the courtyards and the fountains was split , and stained with red and green , and the very cobblestones in the courtyard where the king 's elephants used to live had been thrust up and apart by grasses and young trees .
From the palace you could see the rows and rows of roofless houses that made up the city looking like empty honeycombs filled with blackness ; the shapeless block of stone that had been an idol in the square where four roads met ; the pits and dimples at street corners where the public wells once stood , and the shattered domes of temples with wild figs sprouting on their sides .
The monkeys called the place their city , and pretended to despise the Jungle-People because they lived in the forest .
And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for nor how to use them .
They would sit in circles on the hall of the king 's council chamber , and scratch for fleas and pretend to be men ; or they would run in and out of the roofless houses and collect pieces of plaster and old bricks in a corner , and forget where they had hidden them , and fight and cry in scuffling crowds , and then break off to play up and down the terraces of the king 's garden , where they would shake the rose trees and the oranges in sport to see the fruit and flowers fall .
They explored all the passages and dark tunnels in the palace and the hundreds of little dark rooms , but they never remembered what they had seen and what they had not ; and so drifted about in ones and twos or crowds telling each other that they were doing as men did .
They drank at the tanks and made the water all muddy , and then they fought over it , and then they would all rush together in mobs and shout : `` There is no one in the jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle as the Bandar-log . ''
Then all would begin again till they grew tired of the city and went back to the tree-tops , hoping the Jungle-People would notice them .
Mowgli , who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle , did not like or understand this kind of life .
The monkeys dragged him into the Cold Lairs late in the afternoon , and instead of going to sleep , as Mowgli would have done after a long journey , they joined hands and danced about and sang their foolish songs .
One of the monkeys made a speech and told his companions that Mowgli 's capture marked a new thing in the history of the Bandar-log , for Mowgli was going to show them how to weave sticks and canes together as a protection against rain and cold .
Mowgli picked up some creepers and began to work them in and out , and the monkeys tried to imitate ; but in a very few minutes they lost interest and began to pull their friends ' tails or jump up and down on all fours , coughing .
`` I wish to eat , '' said Mowgli .
`` I am a stranger in this part of the jungle .
Bring me food , or give me leave to hunt here . ''
Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild pawpaws .
But they fell to fighting on the road , and it was too much trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit .
Mowgli was sore and angry as well as hungry , and he roamed through the empty city giving the Strangers ' Hunting Call from time to time , but no one answered him , and Mowgli felt that he had reached a very bad place indeed .
`` All that Baloo has said about the Bandar-log is true , '' he thought to himself .
`` They have no Law , no Hunting Call , and no leaders -- nothing but foolish words and little picking thievish hands .
So if I am starved or killed here , it will be all my own fault .
But I must try to return to my own jungle .
Baloo will surely beat me , but that is better than chasing silly rose leaves with the Bandar-log . ''
No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys pulled him back , telling him that he did not know how happy he was , and pinching him to make him grateful .
He set his teeth and said nothing , but went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoirs that were half-full of rain water .
There was a ruined summer-house of white marble in the center of the terrace , built for queens dead a hundred years ago .
The domed roof had half fallen in and blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the queens used to enter .
But the walls were made of screens of marble tracery -- beautiful milk-white fretwork , set with agates and cornelians and jasper and lapis lazuli , and as the moon came up behind the hill it shone through the open work , casting shadows on the ground like black velvet embroidery .
Sore , sleepy , and hungry as he was , Mowgli could not help laughing when the Bandar-log began , twenty at a time , to tell him how great and wise and strong and gentle they were , and how foolish he was to wish to leave them .
`` We are great .
We are free .
We are wonderful .
We are the most wonderful people in all the jungle !
We all say so , and so it must be true , '' they shouted .
`` Now as you are a new listener and can carry our words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice us in future , we will tell you all about our most excellent selves . ''
Mowgli made no objection , and the monkeys gathered by hundreds and hundreds on the terrace to listen to their own speakers singing the praises of the Bandar-log , and whenever a speaker stopped for want of breath they would all shout together : `` This is true ; we all say so . ''
Mowgli nodded and blinked , and said `` Yes '' when they asked him a question , and his head spun with the noise .
`` Tabaqui the Jackal must have bitten all these people , '' he said to himself , `` and now they have madness .
Certainly this is dewanee , the madness .
Do they never go to sleep ?
Now there is a cloud coming to cover that moon .
If it were only a big enough cloud I might try to run away in the darkness .
But I am tired . ''
That same cloud was being watched by two good friends in the ruined ditch below the city wall , for Bagheera and Kaa , knowing well how dangerous the Monkey-People were in large numbers , did not wish to run any risks .
The monkeys never fight unless they are a hundred to one , and few in the jungle care for those odds .
`` I will go to the west wall , '' Kaa whispered , `` and come down swiftly with the slope of the ground in my favor .
They will not throw themselves upon my back in their hundreds , but -- '' `` I know it , '' said Bagheera .
`` Would that Baloo were here , but we must do what we can .
When that cloud covers the moon I shall go to the terrace .
They hold some sort of council there over the boy . ''
`` Good hunting , '' said Kaa grimly , and glided away to the west wall .
That happened to be the least ruined of any , and the big snake was delayed awhile before he could find a way up the stones .
The cloud hid the moon , and as Mowgli wondered what would come next he heard Bagheera 's light feet on the terrace .
The Black Panther had raced up the slope almost without a sound and was striking -- he knew better than to waste time in biting -- right and left among the monkeys , who were seated round Mowgli in circles fifty and sixty deep .
There was a howl of fright and rage , and then as Bagheera tripped on the rolling kicking bodies beneath him , a monkey shouted : `` There is only one here !
Kill him !
Kill . ''
A scuffling mass of monkeys , biting , scratching , tearing , and pulling , closed over Bagheera , while five or six laid hold of Mowgli , dragged him up the wall of the summerhouse and pushed him through the hole of the broken dome .
A man-trained boy would have been badly bruised , for the fall was a good fifteen feet , but Mowgli fell as Baloo had taught him to fall , and landed on his feet .
`` Stay there , '' shouted the monkeys , `` till we have killed thy friends , and later we will play with thee -- if the Poison-People leave thee alive . ''
`` We be of one blood , ye and I , '' said Mowgli , quickly giving the Snake 's Call .
He could hear rustling and hissing in the rubbish all round him and gave the Call a second time , to make sure .
`` Even ssso !
Down hoods all ! ''
said half a dozen low voices -LRB- every ruin in India becomes sooner or later a dwelling place of snakes , and the old summerhouse was alive with cobras -RRB- .
`` Stand still , Little Brother , for thy feet may do us harm . ''
Mowgli stood as quietly as he could , peering through the open work and listening to the furious din of the fight round the Black Panther -- the yells and chatterings and scufflings , and Bagheera 's deep , hoarse cough as he backed and bucked and twisted and plunged under the heaps of his enemies .
For the first time since he was born , Bagheera was fighting for his life .
`` Baloo must be at hand ; Bagheera would not have come alone , '' Mowgli thought .
And then he called aloud : `` To the tank , Bagheera .
Roll to the water tanks .
Roll and plunge !
Get to the water ! ''
Bagheera heard , and the cry that told him Mowgli was safe gave him new courage .
He worked his way desperately , inch by inch , straight for the reservoirs , halting in silence .
Then from the ruined wall nearest the jungle rose up the rumbling war-shout of Baloo .
The old Bear had done his best , but he could not come before .
`` Bagheera , '' he shouted , `` I am here .
I climb !
I haste !
Ahuwora !
The stones slip under my feet !
Wait my coming , O most infamous Bandar-log ! ''
He panted up the terrace only to disappear to the head in a wave of monkeys , but he threw himself squarely on his haunches , and , spreading out his forepaws , hugged as many as he could hold , and then began to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat , like the flipping strokes of a paddle wheel .
A crash and a splash told Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the monkeys could not follow .
The Panther lay gasping for breath , his head just out of the water , while the monkeys stood three deep on the red steps , dancing up and down with rage , ready to spring upon him from all sides if he came out to help Baloo .
It was then that Bagheera lifted up his dripping chin , and in despair gave the Snake 's Call for protection -- `` We be of one blood , ye and I '' -- for he believed that Kaa had turned tail at the last minute .
Even Baloo , half smothered under the monkeys on the edge of the terrace , could not help chuckling as he heard the Black Panther asking for help .
Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall , landing with a wrench that dislodged a coping stone into the ditch .
He had no intention of losing any advantage of the ground , and coiled and uncoiled himself once or twice , to be sure that every foot of his long body was in working order .
All that while the fight with Baloo went on , and the monkeys yelled in the tank round Bagheera , and Mang the Bat , flying to and fro , carried the news of the great battle over the jungle , till even Hathi the Wild Elephant trumpeted , and , far away , scattered bands of the Monkey-Folk woke and came leaping along the tree-roads to help their comrades in the Cold Lairs , and the noise of the fight roused all the day birds for miles round .
Then Kaa came straight , quickly , and anxious to kill .
The fighting strength of a python is in the driving blow of his head backed by all the strength and weight of his body .
If you can imagine a lance , or a battering ram , or a hammer weighing nearly half a ton driven by a cool , quiet mind living in the handle of it , you can roughly imagine what Kaa was like when he fought .
A python four or five feet long can knock a man down if he hits him fairly in the chest , and Kaa was thirty feet long , as you know .
His first stroke was delivered into the heart of the crowd round Baloo .
It was sent home with shut mouth in silence , and there was no need of a second .
The monkeys scattered with cries of -- `` Kaa !
It is Kaa !
Run !
Run ! ''
Generations of monkeys had been scared into good behavior by the stories their elders told them of Kaa , the night thief , who could slip along the branches as quietly as moss grows , and steal away the strongest monkey that ever lived ; of old Kaa , who could make himself look so like a dead branch or a rotten stump that the wisest were deceived , till the branch caught them .
Kaa was everything that the monkeys feared in the jungle , for none of them knew the limits of his power , none of them could look him in the face , and none had ever come alive out of his hug .
And so they ran , stammering with terror , to the walls and the roofs of the houses , and Baloo drew a deep breath of relief .
His fur was much thicker than Bagheera 's , but he had suffered sorely in the fight .
Then Kaa opened his mouth for the first time and spoke one long hissing word , and the far-away monkeys , hurrying to the defense of the Cold Lairs , stayed where they were , cowering , till the loaded branches bent and crackled under them .
The monkeys on the walls and the empty houses stopped their cries , and in the stillness that fell upon the city Mowgli heard Bagheera shaking his wet sides as he came up from the tank .
Then the clamor broke out again .
The monkeys leaped higher up the walls .
They clung around the necks of the big stone idols and shrieked as they skipped along the battlements , while Mowgli , dancing in the summerhouse , put his eye to the screenwork and hooted owl-fashion between his front teeth , to show his derision and contempt .
`` Get the man-cub out of that trap ; I can do no more , '' Bagheera gasped .
`` Let us take the man-cub and go .
They may attack again . ''
`` They will not move till I order them .
Stay you sssso ! ''
Kaa hissed , and the city was silent once more .
`` I could not come before , Brother , but I think I heard thee call '' -- this was to Bagheera .
`` I -- I may have cried out in the battle , '' Bagheera answered .
`` Baloo , art thou hurt ?
`` I am not sure that they did not pull me into a hundred little bearlings , '' said Baloo , gravely shaking one leg after the other .
`` Wow !
I am sore .
Kaa , we owe thee , I think , our lives -- Bagheera and I. '' `` No matter .
Where is the manling ? ''
`` Here , in a trap .
I can not climb out , '' cried Mowgli .
The curve of the broken dome was above his head .
`` Take him away .
He dances like Mao the Peacock .
He will crush our young , '' said the cobras inside .
`` Hah ! ''
said Kaa with a chuckle , `` he has friends everywhere , this manling .
Stand back , manling .
And hide you , O Poison People .
I break down the wall . ''
Kaa looked carefully till he found a discolored crack in the marble tracery showing a weak spot , made two or three light taps with his head to get the distance , and then lifting up six feet of his body clear of the ground , sent home half a dozen full-power smashing blows , nose-first .
The screen-work broke and fell away in a cloud of dust and rubbish , and Mowgli leaped through the opening and flung himself between Baloo and Bagheera -- an arm around each big neck .
`` Art thou hurt ? ''
said Baloo , hugging him softly .
`` I am sore , hungry , and not a little bruised .
But , oh , they have handled ye grievously , my Brothers !
Ye bleed . ''
`` Others also , '' said Bagheera , licking his lips and looking at the monkey-dead on the terrace and round the tank .
`` It is nothing , it is nothing , if thou art safe , oh , my pride of all little frogs ! ''
whimpered Baloo .
`` Of that we shall judge later , '' said Bagheera , in a dry voice that Mowgli did not at all like .
`` But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life .
Thank him according to our customs , Mowgli . ''
Mowgli turned and saw the great Python 's head swaying a foot above his own .
`` So this is the manling , '' said Kaa .
`` Very soft is his skin , and he is not unlike the Bandar-log .
Have a care , manling , that I do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly changed my coat . ''
`` We be one blood , thou and I , '' Mowgli answered .
`` I take my life from thee tonight .
My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry , O Kaa . ''
`` All thanks , Little Brother , '' said Kaa , though his eyes twinkled .
`` And what may so bold a hunter kill ?
I ask that I may follow when next he goes abroad . ''
`` I kill nothing , -- I am too little , -- but I drive goats toward such as can use them .
When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth .
I have some skill in these -LSB- he held out his hands -RSB- , and if ever thou art in a trap , I may pay the debt which I owe to thee , to Bagheera , and to Baloo , here .
Good hunting to ye all , my masters . ''
`` Well said , '' growled Baloo , for Mowgli had returned thanks very prettily .
The Python dropped his head lightly for a minute on Mowgli 's shoulder .
`` A brave heart and a courteous tongue , '' said he .
`` They shall carry thee far through the jungle , manling .
But now go hence quickly with thy friends .
Go and sleep , for the moon sets , and what follows it is not well that thou shouldst see . ''
The moon was sinking behind the hills and the lines of trembling monkeys huddled together on the walls and battlements looked like ragged shaky fringes of things .
Baloo went down to the tank for a drink and Bagheera began to put his fur in order , as Kaa glided out into the center of the terrace and brought his jaws together with a ringing snap that drew all the monkeys ' eyes upon him .
`` The moon sets , '' he said .
`` Is there yet light enough to see ? ''
From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree-tops -- `` We see , O Kaa . ''
`` Good .
Begins now the dance -- the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa .
Sit still and watch . ''
He turned twice or thrice in a big circle , weaving his head from right to left .
Then he began making loops and figures of eight with his body , and soft , oozy triangles that melted into squares and five-sided figures , and coiled mounds , never resting , never hurrying , and never stopping his low humming song .
It grew darker and darker , till at last the dragging , shifting coils disappeared , but they could hear the rustle of the scales .
Baloo and Bagheera stood still as stone , growling in their throats , their neck hair bristling , and Mowgli watched and wondered .
`` Bandar-log , '' said the voice of Kaa at last , `` can ye stir foot or hand without my order ?
Speak ! ''
`` Without thy order we can not stir foot or hand , O Kaa ! ''
`` Good !
Come all one pace nearer to me . ''
The lines of the monkeys swayed forward helplessly , and Baloo and Bagheera took one stiff step forward with them .
`` Nearer ! ''
hissed Kaa , and they all moved again .
Mowgli laid his hands on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away , and the two great beasts started as though they had been waked from a dream .
`` Keep thy hand on my shoulder , '' Bagheera whispered .
`` Keep it there , or I must go back -- must go back to Kaa .
Aah ! ''
`` It is only old Kaa making circles on the dust , '' said Mowgli .
`` Let us go . ''
And the three slipped off through a gap in the walls to the jungle .
`` Whoof ! ''
said Baloo , when he stood under the still trees again .
`` Never more will I make an ally of Kaa , '' and he shook himself all over .
`` He knows more than we , '' said Bagheera , trembling .
`` In a little time , had I stayed , I should have walked down his throat . ''
`` Many will walk by that road before the moon rises again , '' said Baloo .
`` He will have good hunting -- after his own fashion . ''
`` But what was the meaning of it all ? ''
said Mowgli , who did not know anything of a python 's powers of fascination .
`` I saw no more than a big snake making foolish circles till the dark came .
And his nose was all sore .
Ho !
Ho ! ''
`` Mowgli , '' said Bagheera angrily , `` his nose was sore on thy account , as my ears and sides and paws , and Baloo 's neck and shoulders are bitten on thy account .
Neither Baloo nor Bagheera will be able to hunt with pleasure for many days . ''
`` It is nothing , '' said Baloo ; `` we have the man-cub again . ''
`` True , but he has cost us heavily in time which might have been spent in good hunting , in wounds , in hair -- I am half plucked along my back -- and last of all , in honor .
For , remember , Mowgli , I , who am the Black Panther , was forced to call upon Kaa for protection , and Baloo and I were both made stupid as little birds by the Hunger Dance .
All this , man-cub , came of thy playing with the Bandar-log . ''
`` True , it is true , '' said Mowgli sorrowfully .
`` I am an evil man-cub , and my stomach is sad in me . ''
`` Mf !
What says the Law of the Jungle , Baloo ? ''
Baloo did not wish to bring Mowgli into any more trouble , but he could not tamper with the Law , so he mumbled : `` Sorrow never stays punishment .
But remember , Bagheera , he is very little . ''
`` I will remember .
But he has done mischief , and blows must be dealt now .
Mowgli , hast thou anything to say ? ''
`` Nothing .
I did wrong .
Baloo and thou are wounded .
It is just . ''
Bagheera gave him half a dozen love-taps from a panther 's point of view -LRB- they would hardly have waked one of his own cubs -RRB- , but for a seven-year-old boy they amounted to as severe a beating as you could wish to avoid .
When it was all over Mowgli sneezed , and picked himself up without a word .
`` Now , '' said Bagheera , `` jump on my back , Little Brother , and we will go home . ''
One of the beauties of Jungle Law is that punishment settles all scores .
There is no nagging afterward .
Mowgli laid his head down on Bagheera 's back and slept so deeply that he never waked when he was put down in the home-cave .
Road-Song of the Bandar-Log Here we go in a flung festoon , Half-way up to the jealous moon !
Do n't you envy our pranceful bands ?
Do n't you wish you had extra hands ?
Would n't you like if your tails were -- so -- Curved in the shape of a Cupid 's bow ?
Now you 're angry , but -- never mind , Brother , thy tail hangs down behind !
Here we sit in a branchy row , Thinking of beautiful things we know ; Dreaming of deeds that we mean to do , All complete , in a minute or two -- Something noble and wise and good , Done by merely wishing we could .
We 've forgotten , but -- never mind , Brother , thy tail hangs down behind !
All the talk we ever have heard Uttered by bat or beast or bird -- Hide or fin or scale or feather -- Jabber it quickly and all together !
Excellent !
Wonderful !
Once again !
Now we are talking just like men !
Let 's pretend we are ... never mind , Brother , thy tail hangs down behind !
This is the way of the Monkey-kind .
Then join our leaping lines that scumfish through the pines , That rocket by where , light and high , the wild grape swings .
By the rubbish in our wake , and the noble noise we make , Be sure , be sure , we 're going to do some splendid things !
`` Tiger !
Tiger ! ''
What of the hunting , hunter bold ?
Brother , the watch was long and cold .
What of the quarry ye went to kill ?
Brother , he crops in the jungle still .
Where is the power that made your pride ?
Brother , it ebbs from my flank and side .
Where is the haste that ye hurry by ?
Brother , I go to my lair -- to die .
Now we must go back to the first tale .
When Mowgli left the wolf 's cave after the fight with the Pack at the Council Rock , he went down to the plowed lands where the villagers lived , but he would not stop there because it was too near to the jungle , and he knew that he had made at least one bad enemy at the Council .
So he hurried on , keeping to the rough road that ran down the valley , and followed it at a steady jog-trot for nearly twenty miles , till he came to a country that he did not know .
The valley opened out into a great plain dotted over with rocks and cut up by ravines .
At one end stood a little village , and at the other the thick jungle came down in a sweep to the grazing-grounds , and stopped there as though it had been cut off with a hoe .
All over the plain , cattle and buffaloes were grazing , and when the little boys in charge of the herds saw Mowgli they shouted and ran away , and the yellow pariah dogs that hang about every Indian village barked .
Mowgli walked on , for he was feeling hungry , and when he came to the village gate he saw the big thorn-bush that was drawn up before the gate at twilight , pushed to one side .
`` Umph ! ''
he said , for he had come across more than one such barricade in his night rambles after things to eat .
`` So men are afraid of the People of the Jungle here also . ''
He sat down by the gate , and when a man came out he stood up , opened his mouth , and pointed down it to show that he wanted food .
The man stared , and ran back up the one street of the village shouting for the priest , who was a big , fat man dressed in white , with a red and yellow mark on his forehead .
The priest came to the gate , and with him at least a hundred people , who stared and talked and shouted and pointed at Mowgli .
`` They have no manners , these Men Folk , '' said Mowgli to himself .
`` Only the gray ape would behave as they do . ''
So he threw back his long hair and frowned at the crowd .
`` What is there to be afraid of ? ''
said the priest .
`` Look at the marks on his arms and legs .
They are the bites of wolves .
He is but a wolf-child run away from the jungle . ''
Of course , in playing together , the cubs had often nipped Mowgli harder than they intended , and there were white scars all over his arms and legs .
But he would have been the last person in the world to call these bites , for he knew what real biting meant .
`` Arre !
Arre ! ''
said two or three women together .
`` To be bitten by wolves , poor child !
He is a handsome boy .
He has eyes like red fire .
By my honor , Messua , he is not unlike thy boy that was taken by the tiger . ''
`` Let me look , '' said a woman with heavy copper rings on her wrists and ankles , and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her hand .
`` Indeed he is not .
He is thinner , but he has the very look of my boy . ''
The priest was a clever man , and he knew that Messua was wife to the richest villager in the place .
So he looked up at the sky for a minute and said solemnly : `` What the jungle has taken the jungle has restored .
Take the boy into thy house , my sister , and forget not to honor the priest who sees so far into the lives of men . ''
`` By the Bull that bought me , '' said Mowgli to himself , `` but all this talking is like another looking-over by the Pack !
Well , if I am a man , a man I must become . ''
The crowd parted as the woman beckoned Mowgli to her hut , where there was a red lacquered bedstead , a great earthen grain chest with funny raised patterns on it , half a dozen copper cooking pots , an image of a Hindu god in a little alcove , and on the wall a real looking glass , such as they sell at the country fairs .
She gave him a long drink of milk and some bread , and then she laid her hand on his head and looked into his eyes ; for she thought perhaps that he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger had taken him .
So she said , `` Nathoo , O Nathoo ! ''
Mowgli did not show that he knew the name .
`` Dost thou not remember the day when I gave thee thy new shoes ? ''
She touched his foot , and it was almost as hard as horn .
`` No , '' she said sorrowfully , `` those feet have never worn shoes , but thou art very like my Nathoo , and thou shalt be my son . ''
Mowgli was uneasy , because he had never been under a roof before .
But as he looked at the thatch , he saw that he could tear it out any time if he wanted to get away , and that the window had no fastenings .
`` What is the good of a man , '' he said to himself at last , `` if he does not understand man 's talk ?
Now I am as silly and dumb as a man would be with us in the jungle .
I must speak their talk . ''
It was not for fun that he had learned while he was with the wolves to imitate the challenge of bucks in the jungle and the grunt of the little wild pig .
So , as soon as Messua pronounced a word Mowgli would imitate it almost perfectly , and before dark he had learned the names of many things in the hut .
There was a difficulty at bedtime , because Mowgli would not sleep under anything that looked so like a panther trap as that hut , and when they shut the door he went through the window .
`` Give him his will , '' said Messua 's husband .
`` Remember he can never till now have slept on a bed .
If he is indeed sent in the place of our son he will not run away . ''
So Mowgli stretched himself in some long , clean grass at the edge of the field , but before he had closed his eyes a soft gray nose poked him under the chin .
`` Phew ! ''
said Gray Brother -LRB- he was the eldest of Mother Wolf 's cubs -RRB- .
`` This is a poor reward for following thee twenty miles .
Thou smellest of wood smoke and cattle -- altogether like a man already .
Wake , Little Brother ; I bring news . ''
`` Are all well in the jungle ? ''
said Mowgli , hugging him .
`` All except the wolves that were burned with the Red Flower .
Now , listen .
Shere Khan has gone away to hunt far off till his coat grows again , for he is badly singed .
When he returns he swears that he will lay thy bones in the Waingunga . ''
`` There are two words to that .
I also have made a little promise .
But news is always good .
I am tired to-night , -- very tired with new things , Gray Brother , -- but bring me the news always . ''
`` Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf ?
Men will not make thee forget ? ''
said Gray Brother anxiously .
`` Never .
I will always remember that I love thee and all in our cave .
But also I will always remember that I have been cast out of the Pack . ''
`` And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack .
Men are only men , Little Brother , and their talk is like the talk of frogs in a pond .
When I come down here again , I will wait for thee in the bamboos at the edge of the grazing-ground . ''
For three months after that night Mowgli hardly ever left the village gate , he was so busy learning the ways and customs of men .
First he had to wear a cloth round him , which annoyed him horribly ; and then he had to learn about money , which he did not in the least understand , and about plowing , of which he did not see the use .
Then the little children in the village made him very angry .
Luckily , the Law of the Jungle had taught him to keep his temper , for in the jungle life and food depend on keeping your temper ; but when they made fun of him because he would not play games or fly kites , or because he mispronounced some word , only the knowledge that it was unsportsmanlike to kill little naked cubs kept him from picking them up and breaking them in two .
He did not know his own strength in the least .
In the jungle he knew he was weak compared with the beasts , but in the village people said that he was as strong as a bull .
And Mowgli had not the faintest idea of the difference that caste makes between man and man .
When the potter 's donkey slipped in the clay pit , Mowgli hauled it out by the tail , and helped to stack the pots for their journey to the market at Khanhiwara .
That was very shocking , too , for the potter is a low-caste man , and his donkey is worse .
When the priest scolded him , Mowgli threatened to put him on the donkey too , and the priest told Messua 's husband that Mowgli had better be set to work as soon as possible ; and the village head-man told Mowgli that he would have to go out with the buffaloes next day , and herd them while they grazed .
No one was more pleased than Mowgli ; and that night , because he had been appointed a servant of the village , as it were , he went off to a circle that met every evening on a masonry platform under a great fig-tree .
It was the village club , and the head-man and the watchman and the barber , who knew all the gossip of the village , and old Buldeo , the village hunter , who had a Tower musket , met and smoked .
The monkeys sat and talked in the upper branches , and there was a hole under the platform where a cobra lived , and he had his little platter of milk every night because he was sacred ; and the old men sat around the tree and talked , and pulled at the big huqas -LRB- the water-pipes -RRB- till far into the night .
They told wonderful tales of gods and men and ghosts ; and Buldeo told even more wonderful ones of the ways of beasts in the jungle , till the eyes of the children sitting outside the circle bulged out of their heads .
Most of the tales were about animals , for the jungle was always at their door .
The deer and the wild pig grubbed up their crops , and now and again the tiger carried off a man at twilight , within sight of the village gates .
Mowgli , who naturally knew something about what they were talking of , had to cover his face not to show that he was laughing , while Buldeo , the Tower musket across his knees , climbed on from one wonderful story to another , and Mowgli 's shoulders shook .
Buldeo was explaining how the tiger that had carried away Messua 's son was a ghost-tiger , and his body was inhabited by the ghost of a wicked , old money-lender , who had died some years ago .
`` And I know that this is true , '' he said , `` because Purun Dass always limped from the blow that he got in a riot when his account books were burned , and the tiger that I speak of he limps , too , for the tracks of his pads are unequal . ''
`` True , true , that must be the truth , '' said the gray-beards , nodding together .
`` Are all these tales such cobwebs and moon talk ? ''
said Mowgli .
`` That tiger limps because he was born lame , as everyone knows .
To talk of the soul of a money-lender in a beast that never had the courage of a jackal is child 's talk . ''
Buldeo was speechless with surprise for a moment , and the head-man stared .
`` Oho !
It is the jungle brat , is it ? ''
said Buldeo .
`` If thou art so wise , better bring his hide to Khanhiwara , for the Government has set a hundred rupees on his life .
Better still , talk not when thy elders speak . ''
Mowgli rose to go .
`` All the evening I have lain here listening , '' he called back over his shoulder , `` and , except once or twice , Buldeo has not said one word of truth concerning the jungle , which is at his very doors .
How , then , shall I believe the tales of ghosts and gods and goblins which he says he has seen ? ''
`` It is full time that boy went to herding , '' said the head-man , while Buldeo puffed and snorted at Mowgli 's impertinence .
The custom of most Indian villages is for a few boys to take the cattle and buffaloes out to graze in the early morning , and bring them back at night .
The very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow themselves to be banged and bullied and shouted at by children that hardly come up to their noses .
So long as the boys keep with the herds they are safe , for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle .
But if they straggle to pick flowers or hunt lizards , they are sometimes carried off .
Mowgli went through the village street in the dawn , sitting on the back of Rama , the great herd bull .
The slaty-blue buffaloes , with their long , backward-sweeping horns and savage eyes , rose out their byres , one by one , and followed him , and Mowgli made it very clear to the children with him that he was the master .
He beat the buffaloes with a long , polished bamboo , and told Kamya , one of the boys , to graze the cattle by themselves , while he went on with the buffaloes , and to be very careful not to stray away from the herd .
An Indian grazing ground is all rocks and scrub and tussocks and little ravines , among which the herds scatter and disappear .
The buffaloes generally keep to the pools and muddy places , where they lie wallowing or basking in the warm mud for hours .
Mowgli drove them on to the edge of the plain where the Waingunga came out of the jungle ; then he dropped from Rama 's neck , trotted off to a bamboo clump , and found Gray Brother .
`` Ah , '' said Gray Brother , `` I have waited here very many days .
What is the meaning of this cattle-herding work ? ''
`` It is an order , '' said Mowgli .
`` I am a village herd for a while .
What news of Shere Khan ? ''
`` He has come back to this country , and has waited here a long time for thee .
Now he has gone off again , for the game is scarce .
But he means to kill thee . ''
`` Very good , '' said Mowgli .
`` So long as he is away do thou or one of the four brothers sit on that rock , so that I can see thee as I come out of the village .
When he comes back wait for me in the ravine by the dhak tree in the center of the plain .
We need not walk into Shere Khan 's mouth . ''
Then Mowgli picked out a shady place , and lay down and slept while the buffaloes grazed round him .
Herding in India is one of the laziest things in the world .
The cattle move and crunch , and lie down , and move on again , and they do not even low .
They only grunt , and the buffaloes very seldom say anything , but get down into the muddy pools one after another , and work their way into the mud till only their noses and staring china-blue eyes show above the surface , and then they lie like logs .
The sun makes the rocks dance in the heat , and the herd children hear one kite -LRB- never any more -RRB- whistling almost out of sight overhead , and they know that if they died , or a cow died , that kite would sweep down , and the next kite miles away would see him drop and follow , and the next , and the next , and almost before they were dead there would be a score of hungry kites come out of nowhere .
Then they sleep and wake and sleep again , and weave little baskets of dried grass and put grasshoppers in them ; or catch two praying mantises and make them fight ; or string a necklace of red and black jungle nuts ; or watch a lizard basking on a rock , or a snake hunting a frog near the wallows .
Then they sing long , long songs with odd native quavers at the end of them , and the day seems longer than most people 's whole lives , and perhaps they make a mud castle with mud figures of men and horses and buffaloes , and put reeds into the men 's hands , and pretend that they are kings and the figures are their armies , or that they are gods to be worshiped .
Then evening comes and the children call , and the buffaloes lumber up out of the sticky mud with noises like gunshots going off one after the other , and they all string across the gray plain back to the twinkling village lights .
Day after day Mowgli would lead the buffaloes out to their wallows , and day after day he would see Gray Brother 's back a mile and a half away across the plain -LRB- so he knew that Shere Khan had not come back -RRB- , and day after day he would lie on the grass listening to the noises round him , and dreaming of old days in the jungle .
If Shere Khan had made a false step with his lame paw up in the jungles by the Waingunga , Mowgli would have heard him in those long , still mornings .
At last a day came when he did not see Gray Brother at the signal place , and he laughed and headed the buffaloes for the ravine by the dhk tree , which was all covered with golden-red flowers .
There sat Gray Brother , every bristle on his back lifted .
`` He has hidden for a month to throw thee off thy guard .
He crossed the ranges last night with Tabaqui , hot-foot on thy trail , '' said the Wolf , panting .
Mowgli frowned .
`` I am not afraid of Shere Khan , but Tabaqui is very cunning . ''
`` Have no fear , '' said Gray Brother , licking his lips a little .
`` I met Tabaqui in the dawn .
Now he is telling all his wisdom to the kites , but he told me everything before I broke his back .
Shere Khan 's plan is to wait for thee at the village gate this evening -- for thee and for no one else .
He is lying up now , in the big dry ravine of the Waingunga . ''
`` Has he eaten today , or does he hunt empty ? ''
said Mowgli , for the answer meant life and death to him .
`` He killed at dawn , -- a pig , -- and he has drunk too .
Remember , Shere Khan could never fast , even for the sake of revenge . ''
`` Oh !
Fool , fool !
What a cub 's cub it is !
Eaten and drunk too , and he thinks that I shall wait till he has slept !
Now , where does he lie up ?
If there were but ten of us we might pull him down as he lies .
These buffaloes will not charge unless they wind him , and I can not speak their language .
Can we get behind his track so that they may smell it ? ''
`` He swam far down the Waingunga to cut that off , '' said Gray Brother .
`` Tabaqui told him that , I know .
He would never have thought of it alone . ''
Mowgli stood with his finger in his mouth , thinking .
`` The big ravine of the Waingunga .
That opens out on the plain not half a mile from here .
I can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of the ravine and then sweep down -- but he would slink out at the foot .
We must block that end .
Gray Brother , canst thou cut the herd in two for me ? ''
`` Not I , perhaps -- but I have brought a wise helper . ''
Gray Brother trotted off and dropped into a hole .
Then there lifted up a huge gray head that Mowgli knew well , and the hot air was filled with the most desolate cry of all the jungle -- the hunting howl of a wolf at midday .
`` Akela !
Akela ! ''
said Mowgli , clapping his hands .
`` I might have known that thou wouldst not forget me .
We have a big work in hand .
Cut the herd in two , Akela .
Keep the cows and calves together , and the bulls and the plow buffaloes by themselves . ''
The two wolves ran , ladies ' - chain fashion , in and out of the herd , which snorted and threw up its head , and separated into two clumps .
In one , the cow-buffaloes stood with their calves in the center , and glared and pawed , ready , if a wolf would only stay still , to charge down and trample the life out of him .
In the other , the bulls and the young bulls snorted and stamped , but though they looked more imposing they were much less dangerous , for they had no calves to protect .
No six men could have divided the herd so neatly .
`` What orders ! ''
panted Akela .
`` They are trying to join again . ''
Mowgli slipped on to Rama 's back .
`` Drive the bulls away to the left , Akela .
Gray Brother , when we are gone , hold the cows together , and drive them into the foot of the ravine . ''
`` How far ? ''
said Gray Brother , panting and snapping .
`` Till the sides are higher than Shere Khan can jump , '' shouted Mowgli .
`` Keep them there till we come down . ''
The bulls swept off as Akela bayed , and Gray Brother stopped in front of the cows .
They charged down on him , and he ran just before them to the foot of the ravine , as Akela drove the bulls far to the left .
`` Well done !
Another charge and they are fairly started .
Careful , now -- careful , Akela .
A snap too much and the bulls will charge .
Hujah !
This is wilder work than driving black-buck .
Didst thou think these creatures could move so swiftly ? ''
Mowgli called .
`` I have -- have hunted these too in my time , '' gasped Akela in the dust .
`` Shall I turn them into the jungle ? ''
`` Ay !
Turn .
Swiftly turn them !
Rama is mad with rage .
Oh , if I could only tell him what I need of him to-day . ''
The bulls were turned , to the right this time , and crashed into the standing thicket .
The other herd children , watching with the cattle half a mile away , hurried to the village as fast as their legs could carry them , crying that the buffaloes had gone mad and run away .
But Mowgli 's plan was simple enough .
All he wanted to do was to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine , and then take the bulls down it and catch Shere Khan between the bulls and the cows ; for he knew that after a meal and a full drink Shere Khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the sides of the ravine .
He was soothing the buffaloes now by voice , and Akela had dropped far to the rear , only whimpering once or twice to hurry the rear-guard .
It was a long , long circle , for they did not wish to get too near the ravine and give Shere Khan warning .
At last Mowgli rounded up the bewildered herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that sloped steeply down to the ravine itself .
From that height you could see across the tops of the trees down to the plain below ; but what Mowgli looked at was the sides of the ravine , and he saw with a great deal of satisfaction that they ran nearly straight up and down , while the vines and creepers that hung over them would give no foothold to a tiger who wanted to get out .
`` Let them breathe , Akela , '' he said , holding up his hand .
`` They have not winded him yet .
Let them breathe .
I must tell Shere Khan who comes .
We have him in the trap . ''
He put his hands to his mouth and shouted down the ravine -- it was almost like shouting down a tunnel -- and the echoes jumped from rock to rock .
After a long time there came back the drawling , sleepy snarl of a full-fed tiger just wakened .
`` Who calls ? ''
said Shere Khan , and a splendid peacock fluttered up out of the ravine screeching .
`` I , Mowgli .
Cattle thief , it is time to come to the Council Rock !
Down -- hurry them down , Akela !
Down , Rama , down ! ''
The herd paused for an instant at the edge of the slope , but Akela gave tongue in the full hunting-yell , and they pitched over one after the other , just as steamers shoot rapids , the sand and stones spurting up round them .
Once started , there was no chance of stopping , and before they were fairly in the bed of the ravine Rama winded Shere Khan and bellowed .
`` Ha !
Ha ! ''
said Mowgli , on his back .
`` Now thou knowest ! ''
and the torrent of black horns , foaming muzzles , and staring eyes whirled down the ravine just as boulders go down in floodtime ; the weaker buffaloes being shouldered out to the sides of the ravine where they tore through the creepers .
They knew what the business was before them -- the terrible charge of the buffalo herd against which no tiger can hope to stand .
Shere Khan heard the thunder of their hoofs , picked himself up , and lumbered down the ravine , looking from side to side for some way of escape , but the walls of the ravine were straight and he had to hold on , heavy with his dinner and his drink , willing to do anything rather than fight .
The herd splashed through the pool he had just left , bellowing till the narrow cut rang .
Mowgli heard an answering bellow from the foot of the ravine , saw Shere Khan turn -LRB- the tiger knew if the worst came to the worst it was better to meet the bulls than the cows with their calves -RRB- , and then Rama tripped , stumbled , and went on again over something soft , and , with the bulls at his heels , crashed full into the other herd , while the weaker buffaloes were lifted clean off their feet by the shock of the meeting .
That charge carried both herds out into the plain , goring and stamping and snorting .
Mowgli watched his time , and slipped off Rama 's neck , laying about him right and left with his stick .
`` Quick , Akela !
Break them up .
Scatter them , or they will be fighting one another .
Drive them away , Akela .
Hai , Rama !
Hai , hai , hai !
my children .
Softly now , softly !
It is all over . ''
Akela and Gray Brother ran to and fro nipping the buffaloes ' legs , and though the herd wheeled once to charge up the ravine again , Mowgli managed to turn Rama , and the others followed him to the wallows .
Shere Khan needed no more trampling .
He was dead , and the kites were coming for him already .
`` Brothers , that was a dog 's death , '' said Mowgli , feeling for the knife he always carried in a sheath round his neck now that he lived with men .
`` But he would never have shown fight .
His hide will look well on the Council Rock .
We must get to work swiftly . ''
A boy trained among men would never have dreamed of skinning a ten-foot tiger alone , but Mowgli knew better than anyone else how an animal 's skin is fitted on , and how it can be taken off .
But it was hard work , and Mowgli slashed and tore and grunted for an hour , while the wolves lolled out their tongues , or came forward and tugged as he ordered them .
Presently a hand fell on his shoulder , and looking up he saw Buldeo with the Tower musket .
The children had told the village about the buffalo stampede , and Buldeo went out angrily , only too anxious to correct Mowgli for not taking better care of the herd .
The wolves dropped out of sight as soon as they saw the man coming .
`` What is this folly ? ''
said Buldeo angrily .
`` To think that thou canst skin a tiger !
Where did the buffaloes kill him ?
It is the Lame Tiger too , and there is a hundred rupees on his head .
Well , well , we will overlook thy letting the herd run off , and perhaps I will give thee one of the rupees of the reward when I have taken the skin to Khanhiwara . ''
He fumbled in his waist cloth for flint and steel , and stooped down to singe Shere Khan 's whiskers .
Most native hunters always singe a tiger 's whiskers to prevent his ghost from haunting them .
`` Hum ! ''
said Mowgli , half to himself as he ripped back the skin of a forepaw .
`` So thou wilt take the hide to Khanhiwara for the reward , and perhaps give me one rupee ?
Now it is in my mind that I need the skin for my own use .
Heh !
Old man , take away that fire ! ''
`` What talk is this to the chief hunter of the village ?
Thy luck and the stupidity of thy buffaloes have helped thee to this kill .
The tiger has just fed , or he would have gone twenty miles by this time .
Thou canst not even skin him properly , little beggar brat , and forsooth I , Buldeo , must be told not to singe his whiskers .
Mowgli , I will not give thee one anna of the reward , but only a very big beating .
Leave the carcass ! ''
`` By the Bull that bought me , '' said Mowgli , who was trying to get at the shoulder , `` must I stay babbling to an old ape all noon ?
Here , Akela , this man plagues me . ''
Buldeo , who was still stooping over Shere Khan 's head , found himself sprawling on the grass , with a gray wolf standing over him , while Mowgli went on skinning as though he were alone in all India .
`` Ye-es , '' he said , between his teeth .
`` Thou art altogether right , Buldeo .
Thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward .
There is an old war between this lame tiger and myself -- a very old war , and -- I have won . ''
To do Buldeo justice , if he had been ten years younger he would have taken his chance with Akela had he met the wolf in the woods , but a wolf who obeyed the orders of this boy who had private wars with man-eating tigers was not a common animal .
It was sorcery , magic of the worst kind , thought Buldeo , and he wondered whether the amulet round his neck would protect him .
He lay as still as still , expecting every minute to see Mowgli turn into a tiger too .
`` Maharaj !
Great King , '' he said at last in a husky whisper .
`` Yes , '' said Mowgli , without turning his head , chuckling a little .
`` I am an old man .
I did not know that thou wast anything more than a herdsboy .
May I rise up and go away , or will thy servant tear me to pieces ? ''
`` Go , and peace go with thee .
Only , another time do not meddle with my game .
Let him go , Akela . ''
Buldeo hobbled away to the village as fast as he could , looking back over his shoulder in case Mowgli should change into something terrible .
When he got to the village he told a tale of magic and enchantment and sorcery that made the priest look very grave .
Mowgli went on with his work , but it was nearly twilight before he and the wolves had drawn the great gay skin clear of the body .
`` Now we must hide this and take the buffaloes home !
Help me to herd them , Akela . ''
The herd rounded up in the misty twilight , and when they got near the village Mowgli saw lights , and heard the conches and bells in the temple blowing and banging .
Half the village seemed to be waiting for him by the gate .
`` That is because I have killed Shere Khan , '' he said to himself .
But a shower of stones whistled about his ears , and the villagers shouted : `` Sorcerer !
Wolf 's brat !
Jungle demon !
Go away !
Get hence quickly or the priest will turn thee into a wolf again .
Shoot , Buldeo , shoot ! ''
The old Tower musket went off with a bang , and a young buffalo bellowed in pain .
`` More sorcery ! ''
shouted the villagers .
`` He can turn bullets .
Buldeo , that was thy buffalo . ''
`` Now what is this ? ''
said Mowgli , bewildered , as the stones flew thicker .
`` They are not unlike the Pack , these brothers of thine , '' said Akela , sitting down composedly .
`` It is in my head that , if bullets mean anything , they would cast thee out . ''
`` Wolf !
Wolf 's cub !
Go away ! ''
shouted the priest , waving a sprig of the sacred tulsi plant .
`` Again ?
Last time it was because I was a man .
This time it is because I am a wolf .
Let us go , Akela . ''
A woman -- it was Messua -- ran across to the herd , and cried : `` Oh , my son , my son !
They say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast at will .
I do not believe , but go away or they will kill thee .
Buldeo says thou art a wizard , but I know thou hast avenged Nathoo 's death . ''
`` Come back , Messua ! ''
shouted the crowd .
`` Come back , or we will stone thee . ''
Mowgli laughed a little short ugly laugh , for a stone had hit him in the mouth .
`` Run back , Messua .
This is one of the foolish tales they tell under the big tree at dusk .
I have at least paid for thy son 's life .
Farewell ; and run quickly , for I shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbats .
I am no wizard , Messua .
Farewell ! ''
`` Now , once more , Akela , '' he cried .
`` Bring the herd in . ''
The buffaloes were anxious enough to get to the village .
They hardly needed Akela 's yell , but charged through the gate like a whirlwind , scattering the crowd right and left .
`` Keep count ! ''
shouted Mowgli scornfully .
`` It may be that I have stolen one of them .
Keep count , for I will do your herding no more .
Fare you well , children of men , and thank Messua that I do not come in with my wolves and hunt you up and down your street . ''
He turned on his heel and walked away with the Lone Wolf , and as he looked up at the stars he felt happy .
`` No more sleeping in traps for me , Akela .
Let us get Shere Khan 's skin and go away .
No , we will not hurt the village , for Messua was kind to me . ''
When the moon rose over the plain , making it look all milky , the horrified villagers saw Mowgli , with two wolves at his heels and a bundle on his head , trotting across at the steady wolf 's trot that eats up the long miles like fire .
Then they banged the temple bells and blew the conches louder than ever .
And Messua cried , and Buldeo embroidered the story of his adventures in the jungle , till he ended by saying that Akela stood up on his hind legs and talked like a man .
The moon was just going down when Mowgli and the two wolves came to the hill of the Council Rock , and they stopped at Mother Wolf 's cave .
`` They have cast me out from the Man-Pack , Mother , '' shouted Mowgli , `` but I come with the hide of Shere Khan to keep my word . ''
Mother Wolf walked stiffly from the cave with the cubs behind her , and her eyes glowed as she saw the skin .
`` I told him on that day , when he crammed his head and shoulders into this cave , hunting for thy life , Little Frog -- I told him that the hunter would be the hunted .
It is well done . ''
`` Little Brother , it is well done , '' said a deep voice in the thicket .
`` We were lonely in the jungle without thee , '' and Bagheera came running to Mowgli 's bare feet .
They clambered up the Council Rock together , and Mowgli spread the skin out on the flat stone where Akela used to sit , and pegged it down with four slivers of bamboo , and Akela lay down upon it , and called the old call to the Council , `` Look -- look well , O Wolves , '' exactly as he had called when Mowgli was first brought there .
Ever since Akela had been deposed , the Pack had been without a leader , hunting and fighting at their own pleasure .
But they answered the call from habit ; and some of them were lame from the traps they had fallen into , and some limped from shot wounds , and some were mangy from eating bad food , and many were missing .
But they came to the Council Rock , all that were left of them , and saw Shere Khan 's striped hide on the rock , and the huge claws dangling at the end of the empty dangling feet .
It was then that Mowgli made up a song that came up into his throat all by itself , and he shouted it aloud , leaping up and down on the rattling skin , and beating time with his heels till he had no more breath left , while Gray Brother and Akela howled between the verses .
`` Look well , O Wolves .
Have I kept my word ? ''
said Mowgli .
And the wolves bayed `` Yes , '' and one tattered wolf howled : `` Lead us again , O Akela .
Lead us again , O Man-cub , for we be sick of this lawlessness , and we would be the Free People once more . ''
`` Nay , '' purred Bagheera , `` that may not be .
When ye are full-fed , the madness may come upon you again .
Not for nothing are ye called the Free People .
Ye fought for freedom , and it is yours .
Eat it , O Wolves . ''
`` Man-Pack and Wolf-Pack have cast me out , '' said Mowgli .
`` Now I will hunt alone in the jungle . ''
`` And we will hunt with thee , '' said the four cubs .
So Mowgli went away and hunted with the four cubs in the jungle from that day on .
But he was not always alone , because , years afterward , he became a man and married .
But that is a story for grown-ups .
Mowgli 's Song THAT HE SANG AT THE COUNCIL ROCK WHEN HE DANCED ON SHERE KHAN 'S HIDE The Song of Mowgli -- I , Mowgli , am singing .
Let the jungle listen to the things I have done .
Shere Khan said he would kill -- would kill !
At the gates in the twilight he would kill Mowgli , the Frog !
He ate and he drank .
Drink deep , Shere Khan , for when wilt thou drink again ?
Sleep and dream of the kill .
I am alone on the grazing-grounds .
Gray Brother , come to me !
Come to me , Lone Wolf , for there is big game afoot !
Bring up the great bull buffaloes , the blue-skinned herd bulls with the angry eyes .
Drive them to and fro as I order .
Sleepest thou still , Shere Khan ?
Wake , oh , wake !
Here come I , and the bulls are behind .
Rama , the King of the Buffaloes , stamped with his foot .
Waters of the Waingunga , whither went Shere Khan ?
He is not Ikki to dig holes , nor Mao , the Peacock , that he should fly .
He is not Mang the Bat , to hang in the branches .
Little bamboos that creak together , tell me where he ran ?
Ow !
He is there .
Ahoo !
He is there .
Under the feet of Rama lies the Lame One !
Up , Shere Khan !
Up and kill !
Here is meat ; break the necks of the bulls !
Hsh !
He is asleep .
We will not wake him , for his strength is very great .
The kites have come down to see it .
The black ants have come up to know it .
There is a great assembly in his honor .
Alala !
I have no cloth to wrap me .
The kites will see that I am naked .
I am ashamed to meet all these people .
Lend me thy coat , Shere Khan .
Lend me thy gay striped coat that I may go to the Council Rock .
By the Bull that bought me I made a promise -- a little promise .
Only thy coat is lacking before I keep my word .
With the knife , with the knife that men use , with the knife of the hunter , I will stoop down for my gift .
Waters of the Waingunga , Shere Khan gives me his coat for the love that he bears me .
Pull , Gray Brother !
Pull , Akela !
Heavy is the hide of Shere Khan .
The Man Pack are angry .
They throw stones and talk child 's talk .
My mouth is bleeding .
Let me run away .
Through the night , through the hot night , run swiftly with me , my brothers .
We will leave the lights of the village and go to the low moon .
Waters of the Waingunga , the Man-Pack have cast me out .
I did them no harm , but they were afraid of me .
Why ?
Wolf Pack , ye have cast me out too .
The jungle is shut to me and the village gates are shut .
Why ?
As Mang flies between the beasts and birds , so fly I between the village and the jungle .
Why ?
I dance on the hide of Shere Khan , but my heart is very heavy .
My mouth is cut and wounded with the stones from the village , but my heart is very light , because I have come back to the jungle .
Why ?
These two things fight together in me as the snakes fight in the spring .
The water comes out of my eyes ; yet I laugh while it falls .
Why ?
I am two Mowglis , but the hide of Shere Khan is under my feet .
All the jungle knows that I have killed Shere Khan .
Look -- look well , O Wolves !
Ahae !
My heart is heavy with the things that I do not understand .
The White Seal Oh !
hush thee , my baby , the night is behind us , And black are the waters that sparkled so green .
The moon , o'er the combers , looks downward to find us At rest in the hollows that rustle between .
Where billow meets billow , then soft be thy pillow , Ah , weary wee flipperling , curl at thy ease !
The storm shall not wake thee , nor shark overtake thee , Asleep in the arms of the slow-swinging seas !
Seal Lullaby All these things happened several years ago at a place called Novastoshnah , or North East Point , on the Island of St. Paul , away and away in the Bering Sea .
Limmershin , the Winter Wren , told me the tale when he was blown on to the rigging of a steamer going to Japan , and I took him down into my cabin and warmed and fed him for a couple of days till he was fit to fly back to St. Paul 's again .
Limmershin is a very quaint little bird , but he knows how to tell the truth .
Nobody comes to Novastoshnah except on business , and the only people who have regular business there are the seals .
They come in the summer months by hundreds and hundreds of thousands out of the cold gray sea .
For Novastoshnah Beach has the finest accommodation for seals of any place in all the world .
Sea Catch knew that , and every spring would swim from whatever place he happened to be in -- would swim like a torpedo-boat straight for Novastoshnah and spend a month fighting with his companions for a good place on the rocks , as close to the sea as possible .
Sea Catch was fifteen years old , a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his shoulders , and long , wicked dog teeth .
When he heaved himself up on his front flippers he stood more than four feet clear of the ground , and his weight , if anyone had been bold enough to weigh him , was nearly seven hundred pounds .
He was scarred all over with the marks of savage fights , but he was always ready for just one fight more .
He would put his head on one side , as though he were afraid to look his enemy in the face ; then he would shoot it out like lightning , and when the big teeth were firmly fixed on the other seal 's neck , the other seal might get away if he could , but Sea Catch would not help him .
Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal , for that was against the Rules of the Beach .
He only wanted room by the sea for his nursery .
But as there were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same thing each spring , the whistling , bellowing , roaring , and blowing on the beach was something frightful .
From a little hill called Hutchinson 's Hill , you could look over three and a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals ; and the surf was dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying to land and begin their share of the fighting .
They fought in the breakers , they fought in the sand , and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries , for they were just as stupid and unaccommodating as men .
Their wives never came to the island until late in May or early in June , for they did not care to be torn to pieces ; and the young two - , three - , and four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about half a mile through the ranks of the fighters and played about on the sand dunes in droves and legions , and rubbed off every single green thing that grew .
They were called the holluschickie -- the bachelors -- and there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah alone .
Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when Matkah , his soft , sleek , gentle-eyed wife , came up out of the sea , and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her down on his reservation , saying gruffly : `` Late as usual .
Where have you been ? ''
It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four months he stayed on the beaches , and so his temper was generally bad .
Matkah knew better than to answer back .
She looked round and cooed : `` How thoughtful of you .
You 've taken the old place again . ''
`` I should think I had , '' said Sea Catch .
`` Look at me ! ''
He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places ; one eye was almost out , and his sides were torn to ribbons .
`` Oh , you men , you men ! ''
Matkah said , fanning herself with her hind flipper .
`` Why ca n't you be sensible and settle your places quietly ?
You look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale . ''
`` I have n't been doing anything but fight since the middle of May .
The beach is disgracefully crowded this season .
I 've met at least a hundred seals from Lukannon Beach , house hunting .
Why ca n't people stay where they belong ? ''
`` I 've often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter Island instead of this crowded place , '' said Matkah .
`` Bah !
Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island .
If we went there they would say we were afraid .
We must preserve appearances , my dear . ''
Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended to go to sleep for a few minutes , but all the time he was keeping a sharp lookout for a fight .
Now that all the seals and their wives were on the land , you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the loudest gales .
At the lowest counting there were over a million seals on the beach -- old seals , mother seals , tiny babies , and holluschickie , fighting , scuffling , bleating , crawling , and playing together -- going down to the sea and coming up from it in gangs and regiments , lying over every foot of ground as far as the eye could reach , and skirmishing about in brigades through the fog .
It is nearly always foggy at Novastoshnah , except when the sun comes out and makes everything look all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while .
Kotick , Matkah 's baby , was born in the middle of that confusion , and he was all head and shoulders , with pale , watery blue eyes , as tiny seals must be , but there was something about his coat that made his mother look at him very closely .
`` Sea Catch , '' she said , at last , `` our baby 's going to be white ! ''
`` Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed ! ''
snorted Sea Catch .
`` There never has been such a thing in the world as a white seal . ''
`` I ca n't help that , '' said Matkah ; `` there 's going to be now . ''
And she sang the low , crooning seal song that all the mother seals sing to their babies : You must n't swim till you 're six weeks old , Or your head will be sunk by your heels ; And summer gales and Killer Whales Are bad for baby seals .
Are bad for baby seals , dear rat , As bad as bad can be ; But splash and grow strong , And you ca n't be wrong .
Child of the Open Sea !
Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first .
He paddled and scrambled about by his mother 's side , and learned to scuffle out of the way when his father was fighting with another seal , and the two rolled and roared up and down the slippery rocks .
Matkah used to go to sea to get things to eat , and the baby was fed only once in two days , but then he ate all he could and throve upon it .
The first thing he did was to crawl inland , and there he met tens of thousands of babies of his own age , and they played together like puppies , went to sleep on the clean sand , and played again .
The old people in the nurseries took no notice of them , and the holluschickie kept to their own grounds , and the babies had a beautiful playtime .
When Matkah came back from her deep-sea fishing she would go straight to their playground and call as a sheep calls for a lamb , and wait until she heard Kotick bleat .
Then she would take the straightest of straight lines in his direction , striking out with her fore flippers and knocking the youngsters head over heels right and left .
There were always a few hundred mothers hunting for their children through the playgrounds , and the babies were kept lively .
But , as Matkah told Kotick , `` So long as you do n't lie in muddy water and get mange , or rub the hard sand into a cut or scratch , and so long as you never go swimming when there is a heavy sea , nothing will hurt you here . ''
Little seals can no more swim than little children , but they are unhappy till they learn .
The first time that Kotick went down to the sea a wave carried him out beyond his depth , and his big head sank and his little hind flippers flew up exactly as his mother had told him in the song , and if the next wave had not thrown him back again he would have drowned .
After that , he learned to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the waves just cover him and lift him up while he paddled , but he always kept his eye open for big waves that might hurt .
He was two weeks learning to use his flippers ; and all that while he floundered in and out of the water , and coughed and grunted and crawled up the beach and took catnaps on the sand , and went back again , until at last he found that he truly belonged to the water .
Then you can imagine the times that he had with his companions , ducking under the rollers ; or coming in on top of a comber and landing with a swash and a splutter as the big wave went whirling far up the beach ; or standing up on his tail and scratching his head as the old people did ; or playing `` I 'm the King of the Castle '' on slippery , weedy rocks that just stuck out of the wash .
Now and then he would see a thin fin , like a big shark 's fin , drifting along close to shore , and he knew that that was the Killer Whale , the Grampus , who eats young seals when he can get them ; and Kotick would head for the beach like an arrow , and the fin would jig off slowly , as if it were looking for nothing at all .
Late in October the seals began to leave St. Paul 's for the deep sea , by families and tribes , and there was no more fighting over the nurseries , and the holluschickie played anywhere they liked .
`` Next year , '' said Matkah to Kotick , `` you will be a holluschickie ; but this year you must learn how to catch fish . ''
They set out together across the Pacific , and Matkah showed Kotick how to sleep on his back with his flippers tucked down by his side and his little nose just out of the water .
No cradle is so comfortable as the long , rocking swell of the Pacific .
When Kotick felt his skin tingle all over , Matkah told him he was learning the `` feel of the water , '' and that tingly , prickly feelings meant bad weather coming , and he must swim hard and get away .
`` In a little time , '' she said , `` you 'll know where to swim to , but just now we 'll follow Sea Pig , the Porpoise , for he is very wise . ''
A school of porpoises were ducking and tearing through the water , and little Kotick followed them as fast as he could .
`` How do you know where to go to ? ''
he panted .
The leader of the school rolled his white eye and ducked under .
`` My tail tingles , youngster , '' he said .
`` That means there 's a gale behind me .
Come along !
When you 're south of the Sticky Water -LSB- he meant the Equator -RSB- and your tail tingles , that means there 's a gale in front of you and you must head north .
Come along !
The water feels bad here . ''
This was one of very many things that Kotick learned , and he was always learning .
Matkah taught him to follow the cod and the halibut along the under-sea banks and wrench the rockling out of his hole among the weeds ; how to skirt the wrecks lying a hundred fathoms below water and dart like a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another as the fishes ran ; how to dance on the top of the waves when the lightning was racing all over the sky , and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy-tailed Albatross and the Man-of-war Hawk as they went down the wind ; how to jump three or four feet clear of the water like a dolphin , flippers close to the side and tail curved ; to leave the flying fish alone because they are all bony ; to take the shoulder-piece out of a cod at full speed ten fathoms deep , and never to stop and look at a boat or a ship , but particularly a row-boat .
At the end of six months what Kotick did not know about deep-sea fishing was not worth the knowing .
And all that time he never set flipper on dry ground .
One day , however , as he was lying half asleep in the warm water somewhere off the Island of Juan Fernandez , he felt faint and lazy all over , just as human people do when the spring is in their legs , and he remembered the good firm beaches of Novastoshnah seven thousand miles away , the games his companions played , the smell of the seaweed , the seal roar , and the fighting .
That very minute he turned north , swimming steadily , and as he went on he met scores of his mates , all bound for the same place , and they said : `` Greeting , Kotick !
This year we are all holluschickie , and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off Lukannon and play on the new grass .
But where did you get that coat ? ''
Kotick 's fur was almost pure white now , and though he felt very proud of it , he only said , `` Swim quickly !
My bones are aching for the land . ''
And so they all came to the beaches where they had been born , and heard the old seals , their fathers , fighting in the rolling mist .
That night Kotick danced the Fire-dance with the yearling seals .
The sea is full of fire on summer nights all the way down from Novastoshnah to Lukannon , and each seal leaves a wake like burning oil behind him and a flaming flash when he jumps , and the waves break in great phosphorescent streaks and swirls .
Then they went inland to the holluschickie grounds and rolled up and down in the new wild wheat and told stories of what they had done while they had been at sea .
They talked about the Pacific as boys would talk about a wood that they had been nutting in , and if anyone had understood them he could have gone away and made such a chart of that ocean as never was .
The three - and four-year-old holluschickie romped down from Hutchinson 's Hill crying : `` Out of the way , youngsters !
The sea is deep and you do n't know all that 's in it yet .
Wait till you 've rounded the Horn .
Hi , you yearling , where did you get that white coat ? ''
`` I did n't get it , '' said Kotick .
`` It grew . ''
And just as he was going to roll the speaker over , a couple of black-haired men with flat red faces came from behind a sand dune , and Kotick , who had never seen a man before , coughed and lowered his head .
The holluschickie just bundled off a few yards and sat staring stupidly .
The men were no less than Kerick Booterin , the chief of the seal-hunters on the island , and Patalamon , his son .
They came from the little village not half a mile from the sea nurseries , and they were deciding what seals they would drive up to the killing pens -- for the seals were driven just like sheep -- to be turned into seal-skin jackets later on .
`` Ho ! ''
said Patalamon .
`` Look !
There 's a white seal ! ''
Kerick Booterin turned nearly white under his oil and smoke , for he was an Aleut , and Aleuts are not clean people .
Then he began to mutter a prayer .
`` Do n't touch him , Patalamon .
There has never been a white seal since -- since I was born .
Perhaps it is old Zaharrof 's ghost .
He was lost last year in the big gale . ''
`` I 'm not going near him , '' said Patalamon .
`` He 's unlucky .
Do you really think he is old Zaharrof come back ?
I owe him for some gulls ' eggs . ''
`` Do n't look at him , '' said Kerick .
`` Head off that drove of four-year-olds .
The men ought to skin two hundred to-day , but it 's the beginning of the season and they are new to the work .
A hundred will do .
Quick ! ''
Patalamon rattled a pair of seal 's shoulder bones in front of a herd of holluschickie and they stopped dead , puffing and blowing .
Then he stepped near and the seals began to move , and Kerick headed them inland , and they never tried to get back to their companions .
Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of seals watched them being driven , but they went on playing just the same .
Kotick was the only one who asked questions , and none of his companions could tell him anything , except that the men always drove seals in that way for six weeks or two months of every year .
`` I am going to follow , '' he said , and his eyes nearly popped out of his head as he shuffled along in the wake of the herd .
`` The white seal is coming after us , '' cried Patalamon .
`` That 's the first time a seal has ever come to the killing-grounds alone . ''
`` Hsh !
Do n't look behind you , '' said Kerick .
`` It is Zaharrof 's ghost !
I must speak to the priest about this . ''
The distance to the killing-grounds was only half a mile , but it took an hour to cover , because if the seals went too fast Kerick knew that they would get heated and then their fur would come off in patches when they were skinned .
So they went on very slowly , past Sea Lion 's Neck , past Webster House , till they came to the Salt House just beyond the sight of the seals on the beach .
Kotick followed , panting and wondering .
He thought that he was at the world 's end , but the roar of the seal nurseries behind him sounded as loud as the roar of a train in a tunnel .
Then Kerick sat down on the moss and pulled out a heavy pewter watch and let the drove cool off for thirty minutes , and Kotick could hear the fog-dew dripping off the brim of his cap .
Then ten or twelve men , each with an iron-bound club three or four feet long , came up , and Kerick pointed out one or two of the drove that were bitten by their companions or too hot , and the men kicked those aside with their heavy boots made of the skin of a walrus 's throat , and then Kerick said , `` Let go ! ''
and then the men clubbed the seals on the head as fast as they could .
Ten minutes later little Kotick did not recognize his friends any more , for their skins were ripped off from the nose to the hind flippers , whipped off and thrown down on the ground in a pile .
That was enough for Kotick .
He turned and galloped -LRB- a seal can gallop very swiftly for a short time -RRB- back to the sea ; his little new mustache bristling with horror .
At Sea Lion 's Neck , where the great sea lions sit on the edge of the surf , he flung himself flipper-overhead into the cool water and rocked there , gasping miserably .
`` What 's here ? ''
said a sea lion gruffly , for as a rule the sea lions keep themselves to themselves .
`` Scoochnie !
Ochen scoochnie ! ''
-LRB- `` I 'm lonesome , very lonesome ! '' -RRB-
said Kotick .
`` They 're killing all the holluschickie on all the beaches ! ''
The Sea Lion turned his head inshore .
`` Nonsense ! ''
he said .
`` Your friends are making as much noise as ever .
You must have seen old Kerick polishing off a drove .
He 's done that for thirty years . ''
`` It 's horrible , '' said Kotick , backing water as a wave went over him , and steadying himself with a screw stroke of his flippers that brought him all standing within three inches of a jagged edge of rock .
`` Well done for a yearling ! ''
said the Sea Lion , who could appreciate good swimming .
`` I suppose it is rather awful from your way of looking at it , but if you seals will come here year after year , of course the men get to know of it , and unless you can find an island where no men ever come you will always be driven . ''
`` Is n't there any such island ? ''
began Kotick .
`` I 've followed the poltoos -LSB- the halibut -RSB- for twenty years , and I ca n't say I 've found it yet .
But look here -- you seem to have a fondness for talking to your betters -- suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to Sea Vitch .
He may know something .
Do n't flounce off like that .
It 's a six-mile swim , and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first , little one . ''
Kotick thought that that was good advice , so he swam round to his own beach , hauled out , and slept for half an hour , twitching all over , as seals will .
Then he headed straight for Walrus Islet , a little low sheet of rocky island almost due northeast from Novastoshnah , all ledges and rock and gulls ' nests , where the walrus herded by themselves .
He landed close to old Sea Vitch -- the big , ugly , bloated , pimpled , fat-necked , long-tusked walrus of the North Pacific , who has no manners except when he is asleep -- as he was then , with his hind flippers half in and half out of the surf .
`` Wake up ! ''
barked Kotick , for the gulls were making a great noise .
`` Hah !
Ho !
Hmph !
What 's that ? ''
said Sea Vitch , and he struck the next walrus a blow with his tusks and waked him up , and the next struck the next , and so on till they were all awake and staring in every direction but the right one .
`` Hi !
It 's me , '' said Kotick , bobbing in the surf and looking like a little white slug .
`` Well !
May I be -- skinned ! ''
said Sea Vitch , and they all looked at Kotick as you can fancy a club full of drowsy old gentlemen would look at a little boy .
Kotick did not care to hear any more about skinning just then ; he had seen enough of it .
So he called out : `` Is n't there any place for seals to go where men do n't ever come ? ''
`` Go and find out , '' said Sea Vitch , shutting his eyes .
`` Run away .
We 're busy here . ''
Kotick made his dolphin-jump in the air and shouted as loud as he could : `` Clam-eater !
Clam-eater ! ''
He knew that Sea Vitch never caught a fish in his life but always rooted for clams and seaweed ; though he pretended to be a very terrible person .
Naturally the Chickies and the Gooverooskies and the Epatkas -- the Burgomaster Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the Puffins , who are always looking for a chance to be rude , took up the cry , and -- so Limmershin told me -- for nearly five minutes you could not have heard a gun fired on Walrus Islet .
All the population was yelling and screaming `` Clam-eater !
Stareek -LSB- old man -RSB- ! ''
while Sea Vitch rolled from side to side grunting and coughing .
`` Now will you tell ? ''
said Kotick , all out of breath .
`` Go and ask Sea Cow , '' said Sea Vitch .
`` If he is living still , he 'll be able to tell you . ''
`` How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him ? ''
said Kotick , sheering off .
`` He 's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch , '' screamed a Burgomaster gull , wheeling under Sea Vitch 's nose .
`` Uglier , and with worse manners !
Stareek ! ''
Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah , leaving the gulls to scream .
There he found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seals .
They told him that men had always driven the holluschickie -- it was part of the day 's work -- and that if he did not like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds .
But none of the other seals had seen the killing , and that made the difference between him and his friends .
Besides , Kotick was a white seal .
`` What you must do , '' said old Sea Catch , after he had heard his son 's adventures , `` is to grow up and be a big seal like your father , and have a nursery on the beach , and then they will leave you alone .
In another five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself . ''
Even gentle Matkah , his mother , said : `` You will never be able to stop the killing .
Go and play in the sea , Kotick . ''
And Kotick went off and danced the Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart .
That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could , and set off alone because of a notion in his bullet-head .
He was going to find Sea Cow , if there was such a person in the sea , and he was going to find a quiet island with good firm beaches for seals to live on , where men could not get at them .
So he explored and explored by himself from the North to the South Pacific , swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day and a night .
He met with more adventures than can be told , and narrowly escaped being caught by the Basking Shark , and the Spotted Shark , and the Hammerhead , and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up and down the seas , and the heavy polite fish , and the scarlet spotted scallops that are moored in one place for hundreds of years , and grow very proud of it ; but he never met Sea Cow , and he never found an island that he could fancy .
If the beach was good and hard , with a slope behind it for seals to play on , there was always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon , boiling down blubber , and Kotick knew what that meant .
Or else he could see that seals had once visited the island and been killed off , and Kotick knew that where men had come once they would come again .
He picked up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross , who told him that Kerguelen Island was the very place for peace and quiet , and when Kotick went down there he was all but smashed to pieces against some wicked black cliffs in a heavy sleet-storm with lightning and thunder .
Yet as he pulled out against the gale he could see that even there had once been a seal nursery .
And it was so in all the other islands that he visited .
Limmershin gave a long list of them , for he said that Kotick spent five seasons exploring , with a four months ' rest each year at Novastoshnah , when the holluschickie used to make fun of him and his imaginary islands .
He went to the Gallapagos , a horrid dry place on the Equator , where he was nearly baked to death ; he went to the Georgia Islands , the Orkneys , Emerald Island , Little Nightingale Island , Gough 's Island , Bouvet 's Island , the Crossets , and even to a little speck of an island south of the Cape of Good Hope .
But everywhere the People of the Sea told him the same things .
Seals had come to those islands once upon a time , but men had killed them all off .
Even when he swam thousands of miles out of the Pacific and got to a place called Cape Corrientes -LRB- that was when he was coming back from Gough 's Island -RRB- , he found a few hundred mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came there too .
That nearly broke his heart , and he headed round the Horn back to his own beaches ; and on his way north he hauled out on an island full of green trees , where he found an old , old seal who was dying , and Kotick caught fish for him and told him all his sorrows .
`` Now , '' said Kotick , `` I am going back to Novastoshnah , and if I am driven to the killing-pens with the holluschickie I shall not care . ''
The old seal said , `` Try once more .
I am the last of the Lost Rookery of Masafuera , and in the days when men killed us by the hundred thousand there was a story on the beaches that some day a white seal would come out of the North and lead the seal people to a quiet place .
I am old , and I shall never live to see that day , but others will .
Try once more . ''
And Kotick curled up his mustache -LRB- it was a beauty -RRB- and said , `` I am the only white seal that has ever been born on the beaches , and I am the only seal , black or white , who ever thought of looking for new islands . ''
This cheered him immensely ; and when he came back to Novastoshnah that summer , Matkah , his mother , begged him to marry and settle down , for he was no longer a holluschick but a full-grown sea-catch , with a curly white mane on his shoulders , as heavy , as big , and as fierce as his father .
`` Give me another season , '' he said .
`` Remember , Mother , it is always the seventh wave that goes farthest up the beach . ''
Curiously enough , there was another seal who thought that she would put off marrying till the next year , and Kotick danced the Fire-dance with her all down Lukannon Beach the night before he set off on his last exploration .
This time he went westward , because he had fallen on the trail of a great shoal of halibut , and he needed at least one hundred pounds of fish a day to keep him in good condition .
He chased them till he was tired , and then he curled himself up and went to sleep on the hollows of the ground swell that sets in to Copper Island .
He knew the coast perfectly well , so about midnight , when he felt himself gently bumped on a weed-bed , he said , `` Hm , tide 's running strong tonight , '' and turning over under water opened his eyes slowly and stretched .
Then he jumped like a cat , for he saw huge things nosing about in the shoal water and browsing on the heavy fringes of the weeds .
`` By the Great Combers of Magellan ! ''
he said , beneath his mustache .
`` Who in the Deep Sea are these people ? ''
They were like no walrus , sea lion , seal , bear , whale , shark , fish , squid , or scallop that Kotick had ever seen before .
They were between twenty and thirty feet long , and they had no hind flippers , but a shovel-like tail that looked as if it had been whittled out of wet leather .
Their heads were the most foolish-looking things you ever saw , and they balanced on the ends of their tails in deep water when they were n't grazing , bowing solemnly to each other and waving their front flippers as a fat man waves his arm .
`` Ahem ! ''
said Kotick .
`` Good sport , gentlemen ? ''
The big things answered by bowing and waving their flippers like the Frog Footman .
When they began feeding again Kotick saw that their upper lip was split into two pieces that they could twitch apart about a foot and bring together again with a whole bushel of seaweed between the splits .
They tucked the stuff into their mouths and chumped solemnly .
`` Messy style of feeding , that , '' said Kotick .
They bowed again , and Kotick began to lose his temper .
`` Very good , '' he said .
`` If you do happen to have an extra joint in your front flipper you need n't show off so .
I see you bow gracefully , but I should like to know your names . ''
The split lips moved and twitched ; and the glassy green eyes stared , but they did not speak .
`` Well ! ''
said Kotick .
`` You 're the only people I 've ever met uglier than Sea Vitch -- and with worse manners . ''
Then he remembered in a flash what the Burgomaster gull had screamed to him when he was a little yearling at Walrus Islet , and he tumbled backward in the water , for he knew that he had found Sea Cow at last .
The sea cows went on schlooping and grazing and chumping in the weed , and Kotick asked them questions in every language that he had picked up in his travels ; and the Sea People talk nearly as many languages as human beings .
But the sea cows did not answer because Sea Cow can not talk .
He has only six bones in his neck where he ought to have seven , and they say under the sea that that prevents him from speaking even to his companions .
But , as you know , he has an extra joint in his foreflipper , and by waving it up and down and about he makes what answers to a sort of clumsy telegraphic code .
By daylight Kotick 's mane was standing on end and his temper was gone where the dead crabs go .
Then the Sea Cow began to travel northward very slowly , stopping to hold absurd bowing councils from time to time , and Kotick followed them , saying to himself , `` People who are such idiots as these are would have been killed long ago if they had n't found out some safe island .
And what is good enough for the Sea Cow is good enough for the Sea Catch .
All the same , I wish they 'd hurry . ''
It was weary work for Kotick .
The herd never went more than forty or fifty miles a day , and stopped to feed at night , and kept close to the shore all the time ; while Kotick swam round them , and over them , and under them , but he could not hurry them up one-half mile .
As they went farther north they held a bowing council every few hours , and Kotick nearly bit off his mustache with impatience till he saw that they were following up a warm current of water , and then he respected them more .
One night they sank through the shiny water -- sank like stones -- and for the first time since he had known them began to swim quickly .
Kotick followed , and the pace astonished him , for he never dreamed that Sea Cow was anything of a swimmer .
They headed for a cliff by the shore -- a cliff that ran down into deep water , and plunged into a dark hole at the foot of it , twenty fathoms under the sea .
It was a long , long swim , and Kotick badly wanted fresh air before he was out of the dark tunnel they led him through .
`` My wig ! ''
he said , when he rose , gasping and puffing , into open water at the farther end .
`` It was a long dive , but it was worth it . ''
The sea cows had separated and were browsing lazily along the edges of the finest beaches that Kotick had ever seen .
There were long stretches of smooth-worn rock running for miles , exactly fitted to make seal-nurseries , and there were play-grounds of hard sand sloping inland behind them , and there were rollers for seals to dance in , and long grass to roll in , and sand dunes to climb up and down , and , best of all , Kotick knew by the feel of the water , which never deceives a true sea catch , that no men had ever come there .
The first thing he did was to assure himself that the fishing was good , and then he swam along the beaches and counted up the delightful low sandy islands half hidden in the beautiful rolling fog .
Away to the northward , out to sea , ran a line of bars and shoals and rocks that would never let a ship come within six miles of the beach , and between the islands and the mainland was a stretch of deep water that ran up to the perpendicular cliffs , and somewhere below the cliffs was the mouth of the tunnel .
`` It 's Novastoshnah over again , but ten times better , '' said Kotick .
`` Sea Cow must be wiser than I thought .
Men ca n't come down the cliffs , even if there were any men ; and the shoals to seaward would knock a ship to splinters .
If any place in the sea is safe , this is it . ''
He began to think of the seal he had left behind him , but though he was in a hurry to go back to Novastoshnah , he thoroughly explored the new country , so that he would be able to answer all questions .
Then he dived and made sure of the mouth of the tunnel , and raced through to the southward .
No one but a sea cow or a seal would have dreamed of there being such a place , and when he looked back at the cliffs even Kotick could hardly believe that he had been under them .
He was six days going home , though he was not swimming slowly ; and when he hauled out just above Sea Lion 's Neck the first person he met was the seal who had been waiting for him , and she saw by the look in his eyes that he had found his island at last .
But the holluschickie and Sea Catch , his father , and all the other seals laughed at him when he told them what he had discovered , and a young seal about his own age said , `` This is all very well , Kotick , but you ca n't come from no one knows where and order us off like this .
Remember we 've been fighting for our nurseries , and that 's a thing you never did .
You preferred prowling about in the sea . ''
The other seals laughed at this , and the young seal began twisting his head from side to side .
He had just married that year , and was making a great fuss about it .
`` I 've no nursery to fight for , '' said Kotick .
`` I only want to show you all a place where you will be safe .
What 's the use of fighting ? ''
`` Oh , if you 're trying to back out , of course I 've no more to say , '' said the young seal with an ugly chuckle .
`` Will you come with me if I win ? ''
said Kotick .
And a green light came into his eye , for he was very angry at having to fight at all .
`` Very good , '' said the young seal carelessly .
`` If you win , I 'll come . ''
He had no time to change his mind , for Kotick 's head was out and his teeth sunk in the blubber of the young seal 's neck .
Then he threw himself back on his haunches and hauled his enemy down the beach , shook him , and knocked him over .
Then Kotick roared to the seals : `` I 've done my best for you these five seasons past .
I 've found you the island where you 'll be safe , but unless your heads are dragged off your silly necks you wo n't believe .
I 'm going to teach you now .
Look out for yourselves ! ''
Limmershin told me that never in his life -- and Limmershin sees ten thousand big seals fighting every year -- never in all his little life did he see anything like Kotick 's charge into the nurseries .
He flung himself at the biggest sea catch he could find , caught him by the throat , choked him and bumped him and banged him till he grunted for mercy , and then threw him aside and attacked the next .
You see , Kotick had never fasted for four months as the big seals did every year , and his deep-sea swimming trips kept him in perfect condition , and , best of all , he had never fought before .
His curly white mane stood up with rage , and his eyes flamed , and his big dog teeth glistened , and he was splendid to look at .
Old Sea Catch , his father , saw him tearing past , hauling the grizzled old seals about as though they had been halibut , and upsetting the young bachelors in all directions ; and Sea Catch gave a roar and shouted : `` He may be a fool , but he is the best fighter on the beaches !
Do n't tackle your father , my son !
He 's with you ! ''
Kotick roared in answer , and old Sea Catch waddled in with his mustache on end , blowing like a locomotive , while Matkah and the seal that was going to marry Kotick cowered down and admired their men-folk .
It was a gorgeous fight , for the two fought as long as there was a seal that dared lift up his head , and when there were none they paraded grandly up and down the beach side by side , bellowing .
At night , just as the Northern Lights were winking and flashing through the fog , Kotick climbed a bare rock and looked down on the scattered nurseries and the torn and bleeding seals .
`` Now , '' he said , `` I 've taught you your lesson . ''
`` My wig ! ''
said old Sea Catch , boosting himself up stiffly , for he was fearfully mauled .
`` The Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up worse .
Son , I 'm proud of you , and what 's more , I 'll come with you to your island -- if there is such a place . ''
`` Hear you , fat pigs of the sea .
Who comes with me to the Sea Cow 's tunnel ?
Answer , or I shall teach you again , '' roared Kotick .
There was a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the beaches .
`` We will come , '' said thousands of tired voices .
`` We will follow Kotick , the White Seal . ''
Then Kotick dropped his head between his shoulders and shut his eyes proudly .
He was not a white seal any more , but red from head to tail .
All the same he would have scorned to look at or touch one of his wounds .
A week later he and his army -LRB- nearly ten thousand holluschickie and old seals -RRB- went away north to the Sea Cow 's tunnel , Kotick leading them , and the seals that stayed at Novastoshnah called them idiots .
But next spring , when they all met off the fishing banks of the Pacific , Kotick 's seals told such tales of the new beaches beyond Sea Cow 's tunnel that more and more seals left Novastoshnah .
Of course it was not all done at once , for the seals are not very clever , and they need a long time to turn things over in their minds , but year after year more seals went away from Novastoshnah , and Lukannon , and the other nurseries , to the quiet , sheltered beaches where Kotick sits all the summer through , getting bigger and fatter and stronger each year , while the holluschickie play around him , in that sea where no man comes .
Lukannon This is the great deep-sea song that all the St. Paul seals sing when they are heading back to their beaches in the summer .
It is a sort of very sad seal National Anthem .
I met my mates in the morning -LRB- and , oh , but I am old ! -RRB-
Where roaring on the ledges the summer ground-swell rolled ; I heard them lift the chorus that drowned the breakers ' song -- The Beaches of Lukannon -- two million voices strong .
The song of pleasant stations beside the salt lagoons , The song of blowing squadrons that shuffled down the dunes , The song of midnight dances that churned the sea to flame -- The Beaches of Lukannon -- before the sealers came !
I met my mates in the morning -LRB- I 'll never meet them more ! -RRB-
; They came and went in legions that darkened all the shore .
And o'er the foam-flecked offing as far as voice could reach We hailed the landing-parties and we sang them up the beach .
The Beaches of Lukannon -- the winter wheat so tall -- The dripping , crinkled lichens , and the sea-fog drenching all !
The platforms of our playground , all shining smooth and worn !
The Beaches of Lukannon -- the home where we were born !
I met my mates in the morning , a broken , scattered band .
Men shoot us in the water and club us on the land ; Men drive us to the Salt House like silly sheep and tame , And still we sing Lukannon -- before the sealers came .
Wheel down , wheel down to southward ; oh , Gooverooska , go !
And tell the Deep-Sea Viceroys the story of our woe ; Ere , empty as the shark 's egg the tempest flings ashore , The Beaches of Lukannon shall know their sons no more !
`` Rikki-Tikki-Tavi '' At the hole where he went in Red-Eye called to Wrinkle-Skin .
Hear what little Red-Eye saith : `` Nag , come up and dance with death ! ''
Eye to eye and head to head , -LRB- Keep the measure , Nag . -RRB-
This shall end when one is dead ; -LRB- At thy pleasure , Nag . -RRB-
Turn for turn and twist for twist -- -LRB- Run and hide thee , Nag . -RRB-
Hah !
The hooded Death has missed !
-LRB- Woe betide thee , Nag ! -RRB-
This is the story of the great war that Rikki-tikki-tavi fought single-handed , through the bath-rooms of the big bungalow in Segowlee cantonment .
Darzee , the Tailorbird , helped him , and Chuchundra , the musk-rat , who never comes out into the middle of the floor , but always creeps round by the wall , gave him advice , but Rikki-tikki did the real fighting .
He was a mongoose , rather like a little cat in his fur and his tail , but quite like a weasel in his head and his habits .
His eyes and the end of his restless nose were pink .
He could scratch himself anywhere he pleased with any leg , front or back , that he chose to use .
He could fluff up his tail till it looked like a bottle brush , and his war cry as he scuttled through the long grass was : `` Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk ! ''
One day , a high summer flood washed him out of the burrow where he lived with his father and mother , and carried him , kicking and clucking , down a roadside ditch .
He found a little wisp of grass floating there , and clung to it till he lost his senses .
When he revived , he was lying in the hot sun on the middle of a garden path , very draggled indeed , and a small boy was saying , `` Here 's a dead mongoose .
Let 's have a funeral . ''
`` No , '' said his mother , `` let 's take him in and dry him .
Perhaps he is n't really dead . ''
They took him into the house , and a big man picked him up between his finger and thumb and said he was not dead but half choked .
So they wrapped him in cotton wool , and warmed him over a little fire , and he opened his eyes and sneezed .
`` Now , '' said the big man -LRB- he was an Englishman who had just moved into the bungalow -RRB- , `` do n't frighten him , and we 'll see what he 'll do . ''
It is the hardest thing in the world to frighten a mongoose , because he is eaten up from nose to tail with curiosity .
The motto of all the mongoose family is `` Run and find out , '' and Rikki-tikki was a true mongoose .
He looked at the cotton wool , decided that it was not good to eat , ran all round the table , sat up and put his fur in order , scratched himself , and jumped on the small boy 's shoulder .
`` Do n't be frightened , Teddy , '' said his father .
`` That 's his way of making friends . ''
`` Ouch !
He 's tickling under my chin , '' said Teddy .
Rikki-tikki looked down between the boy 's collar and neck , snuffed at his ear , and climbed down to the floor , where he sat rubbing his nose .
`` Good gracious , '' said Teddy 's mother , `` and that 's a wild creature !
I suppose he 's so tame because we 've been kind to him . ''
`` All mongooses are like that , '' said her husband .
`` If Teddy does n't pick him up by the tail , or try to put him in a cage , he 'll run in and out of the house all day long .
Let 's give him something to eat . ''
They gave him a little piece of raw meat .
Rikki-tikki liked it immensely , and when it was finished he went out into the veranda and sat in the sunshine and fluffed up his fur to make it dry to the roots .
Then he felt better .
`` There are more things to find out about in this house , '' he said to himself , `` than all my family could find out in all their lives .
I shall certainly stay and find out . ''
He spent all that day roaming over the house .
He nearly drowned himself in the bath-tubs , put his nose into the ink on a writing table , and burned it on the end of the big man 's cigar , for he climbed up in the big man 's lap to see how writing was done .
At nightfall he ran into Teddy 's nursery to watch how kerosene lamps were lighted , and when Teddy went to bed Rikki-tikki climbed up too .
But he was a restless companion , because he had to get up and attend to every noise all through the night , and find out what made it .
Teddy 's mother and father came in , the last thing , to look at their boy , and Rikki-tikki was awake on the pillow .
`` I do n't like that , '' said Teddy 's mother .
`` He may bite the child . ''
`` He 'll do no such thing , '' said the father .
`` Teddy 's safer with that little beast than if he had a bloodhound to watch him .
If a snake came into the nursery now -- '' But Teddy 's mother would n't think of anything so awful .
Early in the morning Rikki-tikki came to early breakfast in the veranda riding on Teddy 's shoulder , and they gave him banana and some boiled egg .
He sat on all their laps one after the other , because every well-brought-up mongoose always hopes to be a house mongoose some day and have rooms to run about in ; and Rikki-tikki 's mother -LRB- she used to live in the general 's house at Segowlee -RRB- had carefully told Rikki what to do if ever he came across white men .
Then Rikki-tikki went out into the garden to see what was to be seen .
It was a large garden , only half cultivated , with bushes , as big as summer-houses , of Marshal Niel roses , lime and orange trees , clumps of bamboos , and thickets of high grass .
Rikki-tikki licked his lips .
`` This is a splendid hunting-ground , '' he said , and his tail grew bottle-brushy at the thought of it , and he scuttled up and down the garden , snuffing here and there till he heard very sorrowful voices in a thorn-bush .
It was Darzee , the Tailorbird , and his wife .
They had made a beautiful nest by pulling two big leaves together and stitching them up the edges with fibers , and had filled the hollow with cotton and downy fluff .
The nest swayed to and fro , as they sat on the rim and cried .
`` What is the matter ? ''
asked Rikki-tikki .
`` We are very miserable , '' said Darzee .
`` One of our babies fell out of the nest yesterday and Nag ate him . ''
`` H 'm ! ''
said Rikki-tikki , `` that is very sad -- but I am a stranger here .
Who is Nag ? ''
Darzee and his wife only cowered down in the nest without answering , for from the thick grass at the foot of the bush there came a low hiss -- a horrid cold sound that made Rikki-tikki jump back two clear feet .
Then inch by inch out of the grass rose up the head and spread hood of Nag , the big black cobra , and he was five feet long from tongue to tail .
When he had lifted one-third of himself clear of the ground , he stayed balancing to and fro exactly as a dandelion tuft balances in the wind , and he looked at Rikki-tikki with the wicked snake 's eyes that never change their expression , whatever the snake may be thinking of .
`` Who is Nag ? ''
said he .
`` I am Nag .
The great God Brahm put his mark upon all our people , when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off Brahm as he slept .
Look , and be afraid ! ''
He spread out his hood more than ever , and Rikki-tikki saw the spectacle-mark on the back of it that looks exactly like the eye part of a hook-and-eye fastening .
He was afraid for the minute , but it is impossible for a mongoose to stay frightened for any length of time , and though Rikki-tikki had never met a live cobra before , his mother had fed him on dead ones , and he knew that all a grown mongoose 's business in life was to fight and eat snakes .
Nag knew that too and , at the bottom of his cold heart , he was afraid .
`` Well , '' said Rikki-tikki , and his tail began to fluff up again , `` marks or no marks , do you think it is right for you to eat fledglings out of a nest ? ''
Nag was thinking to himself , and watching the least little movement in the grass behind Rikki-tikki .
He knew that mongooses in the garden meant death sooner or later for him and his family , but he wanted to get Rikki-tikki off his guard .
So he dropped his head a little , and put it on one side .
`` Let us talk , '' he said .
`` You eat eggs .
Why should not I eat birds ? ''
`` Behind you !
Look behind you ! ''
sang Darzee .
Rikki-tikki knew better than to waste time in staring .
He jumped up in the air as high as he could go , and just under him whizzed by the head of Nagaina , Nag 's wicked wife .
She had crept up behind him as he was talking , to make an end of him .
He heard her savage hiss as the stroke missed .
He came down almost across her back , and if he had been an old mongoose he would have known that then was the time to break her back with one bite ; but he was afraid of the terrible lashing return stroke of the cobra .
He bit , indeed , but did not bite long enough , and he jumped clear of the whisking tail , leaving Nagaina torn and angry .
`` Wicked , wicked Darzee ! ''
said Nag , lashing up as high as he could reach toward the nest in the thorn-bush .
But Darzee had built it out of reach of snakes , and it only swayed to and fro .
Rikki-tikki felt his eyes growing red and hot -LRB- when a mongoose 's eyes grow red , he is angry -RRB- , and he sat back on his tail and hind legs like a little kangaroo , and looked all round him , and chattered with rage .
But Nag and Nagaina had disappeared into the grass .
When a snake misses its stroke , it never says anything or gives any sign of what it means to do next .
Rikki-tikki did not care to follow them , for he did not feel sure that he could manage two snakes at once .
So he trotted off to the gravel path near the house , and sat down to think .
It was a serious matter for him .
If you read the old books of natural history , you will find they say that when the mongoose fights the snake and happens to get bitten , he runs off and eats some herb that cures him .
That is not true .
The victory is only a matter of quickness of eye and quickness of foot -- snake 's blow against mongoose 's jump -- and as no eye can follow the motion of a snake 's head when it strikes , this makes things much more wonderful than any magic herb .
Rikki-tikki knew he was a young mongoose , and it made him all the more pleased to think that he had managed to escape a blow from behind .
It gave him confidence in himself , and when Teddy came running down the path , Rikki-tikki was ready to be petted .
But just as Teddy was stooping , something wriggled a little in the dust , and a tiny voice said : `` Be careful .
I am Death ! ''
It was Karait , the dusty brown snakeling that lies for choice on the dusty earth ; and his bite is as dangerous as the cobra 's .
But he is so small that nobody thinks of him , and so he does the more harm to people .
Rikki-tikki 's eyes grew red again , and he danced up to Karait with the peculiar rocking , swaying motion that he had inherited from his family .
It looks very funny , but it is so perfectly balanced a gait that you can fly off from it at any angle you please , and in dealing with snakes this is an advantage .
If Rikki-tikki had only known , he was doing a much more dangerous thing than fighting Nag , for Karait is so small , and can turn so quickly , that unless Rikki bit him close to the back of the head , he would get the return stroke in his eye or his lip .
But Rikki did not know .
His eyes were all red , and he rocked back and forth , looking for a good place to hold .
Karait struck out .
Rikki jumped sideways and tried to run in , but the wicked little dusty gray head lashed within a fraction of his shoulder , and he had to jump over the body , and the head followed his heels close .
Teddy shouted to the house : `` Oh , look here !
Our mongoose is killing a snake . ''
And Rikki-tikki heard a scream from Teddy 's mother .
His father ran out with a stick , but by the time he came up , Karait had lunged out once too far , and Rikki-tikki had sprung , jumped on the snake 's back , dropped his head far between his forelegs , bitten as high up the back as he could get hold , and rolled away .
That bite paralyzed Karait , and Rikki-tikki was just going to eat him up from the tail , after the custom of his family at dinner , when he remembered that a full meal makes a slow mongoose , and if he wanted all his strength and quickness ready , he must keep himself thin .
He went away for a dust bath under the castor-oil bushes , while Teddy 's father beat the dead Karait .
`` What is the use of that ? ''
thought Rikki-tikki .
`` I have settled it all ; '' and then Teddy 's mother picked him up from the dust and hugged him , crying that he had saved Teddy from death , and Teddy 's father said that he was a providence , and Teddy looked on with big scared eyes .
Rikki-tikki was rather amused at all the fuss , which , of course , he did not understand .
Teddy 's mother might just as well have petted Teddy for playing in the dust .
Rikki was thoroughly enjoying himself .
That night at dinner , walking to and fro among the wine-glasses on the table , he might have stuffed himself three times over with nice things .
But he remembered Nag and Nagaina , and though it was very pleasant to be patted and petted by Teddy 's mother , and to sit on Teddy 's shoulder , his eyes would get red from time to time , and he would go off into his long war cry of `` Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk ! ''
Teddy carried him off to bed , and insisted on Rikki-tikki sleeping under his chin .
Rikki-tikki was too well bred to bite or scratch , but as soon as Teddy was asleep he went off for his nightly walk round the house , and in the dark he ran up against Chuchundra , the musk-rat , creeping around by the wall .
Chuchundra is a broken-hearted little beast .
He whimpers and cheeps all the night , trying to make up his mind to run into the middle of the room .
But he never gets there .
`` Do n't kill me , '' said Chuchundra , almost weeping .
`` Rikki-tikki , do n't kill me ! ''
`` Do you think a snake-killer kills muskrats ? ''
said Rikki-tikki scornfully .
`` Those who kill snakes get killed by snakes , '' said Chuchundra , more sorrowfully than ever .
`` And how am I to be sure that Nag wo n't mistake me for you some dark night ? ''
`` There 's not the least danger , '' said Rikki-tikki .
`` But Nag is in the garden , and I know you do n't go there . ''
`` My cousin Chua , the rat , told me -- '' said Chuchundra , and then he stopped .
`` Told you what ? ''
`` H'sh !
Nag is everywhere , Rikki-tikki .
You should have talked to Chua in the garden . ''
`` I did n't -- so you must tell me .
Quick , Chuchundra , or I 'll bite you ! ''
Chuchundra sat down and cried till the tears rolled off his whiskers .
`` I am a very poor man , '' he sobbed .
`` I never had spirit enough to run out into the middle of the room .
H'sh !
I must n't tell you anything .
Ca n't you hear , Rikki-tikki ? ''
Rikki-tikki listened .
The house was as still as still , but he thought he could just catch the faintest scratch-scratch in the world -- a noise as faint as that of a wasp walking on a window-pane -- the dry scratch of a snake 's scales on brick-work .
`` That 's Nag or Nagaina , '' he said to himself , `` and he is crawling into the bath-room sluice .
You 're right , Chuchundra ; I should have talked to Chua . ''
He stole off to Teddy 's bath-room , but there was nothing there , and then to Teddy 's mother 's bathroom .
At the bottom of the smooth plaster wall there was a brick pulled out to make a sluice for the bath water , and as Rikki-tikki stole in by the masonry curb where the bath is put , he heard Nag and Nagaina whispering together outside in the moonlight .
`` When the house is emptied of people , '' said Nagaina to her husband , `` he will have to go away , and then the garden will be our own again .
Go in quietly , and remember that the big man who killed Karait is the first one to bite .
Then come out and tell me , and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki together . ''
`` But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by killing the people ? ''
said Nag .
`` Everything .
When there were no people in the bungalow , did we have any mongoose in the garden ?
So long as the bungalow is empty , we are king and queen of the garden ; and remember that as soon as our eggs in the melon bed hatch -LRB- as they may tomorrow -RRB- , our children will need room and quiet . ''
`` I had not thought of that , '' said Nag .
`` I will go , but there is no need that we should hunt for Rikki-tikki afterward .
I will kill the big man and his wife , and the child if I can , and come away quietly .
Then the bungalow will be empty , and Rikki-tikki will go . ''
Rikki-tikki tingled all over with rage and hatred at this , and then Nag 's head came through the sluice , and his five feet of cold body followed it .
Angry as he was , Rikki-tikki was very frightened as he saw the size of the big cobra .
Nag coiled himself up , raised his head , and looked into the bathroom in the dark , and Rikki could see his eyes glitter .
`` Now , if I kill him here , Nagaina will know ; and if I fight him on the open floor , the odds are in his favor .
What am I to do ? ''
said Rikki-tikki-tavi .
Nag waved to and fro , and then Rikki-tikki heard him drinking from the biggest water-jar that was used to fill the bath .
`` That is good , '' said the snake .
`` Now , when Karait was killed , the big man had a stick .
He may have that stick still , but when he comes in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick .
I shall wait here till he comes .
Nagaina -- do you hear me ?
-- I shall wait here in the cool till daytime . ''
There was no answer from outside , so Rikki-tikki knew Nagaina had gone away .
Nag coiled himself down , coil by coil , round the bulge at the bottom of the water jar , and Rikki-tikki stayed still as death .
After an hour he began to move , muscle by muscle , toward the jar .
Nag was asleep , and Rikki-tikki looked at his big back , wondering which would be the best place for a good hold .
`` If I do n't break his back at the first jump , '' said Rikki , `` he can still fight .
And if he fights -- O Rikki ! ''
He looked at the thickness of the neck below the hood , but that was too much for him ; and a bite near the tail would only make Nag savage .
`` It must be the head '' ' he said at last ; `` the head above the hood .
And , when I am once there , I must not let go . ''
Then he jumped .
The head was lying a little clear of the water jar , under the curve of it ; and , as his teeth met , Rikki braced his back against the bulge of the red earthenware to hold down the head .
This gave him just one second 's purchase , and he made the most of it .
Then he was battered to and fro as a rat is shaken by a dog -- to and fro on the floor , up and down , and around in great circles , but his eyes were red and he held on as the body cart-whipped over the floor , upsetting the tin dipper and the soap dish and the flesh brush , and banged against the tin side of the bath .
As he held he closed his jaws tighter and tighter , for he made sure he would be banged to death , and , for the honor of his family , he preferred to be found with his teeth locked .
He was dizzy , aching , and felt shaken to pieces when something went off like a thunderclap just behind him .
A hot wind knocked him senseless and red fire singed his fur .
The big man had been wakened by the noise , and had fired both barrels of a shotgun into Nag just behind the hood .
Rikki-tikki held on with his eyes shut , for now he was quite sure he was dead .
But the head did not move , and the big man picked him up and said , `` It 's the mongoose again , Alice .
The little chap has saved our lives now . ''
Then Teddy 's mother came in with a very white face , and saw what was left of Nag , and Rikki-tikki dragged himself to Teddy 's bedroom and spent half the rest of the night shaking himself tenderly to find out whether he really was broken into forty pieces , as he fancied .
When morning came he was very stiff , but well pleased with his doings .
`` Now I have Nagaina to settle with , and she will be worse than five Nags , and there 's no knowing when the eggs she spoke of will hatch .
Goodness !
I must go and see Darzee , '' he said .
Without waiting for breakfast , Rikki-tikki ran to the thornbush where Darzee was singing a song of triumph at the top of his voice .
The news of Nag 's death was all over the garden , for the sweeper had thrown the body on the rubbish-heap .
`` Oh , you stupid tuft of feathers ! ''
said Rikki-tikki angrily .
`` Is this the time to sing ? ''
`` Nag is dead -- is dead -- is dead ! ''
sang Darzee .
`` The valiant Rikki-tikki caught him by the head and held fast .
The big man brought the bang-stick , and Nag fell in two pieces !
He will never eat my babies again . ''
`` All that 's true enough .
But where 's Nagaina ? ''
said Rikki-tikki , looking carefully round him .
`` Nagaina came to the bathroom sluice and called for Nag , '' Darzee went on , `` and Nag came out on the end of a stick -- the sweeper picked him up on the end of a stick and threw him upon the rubbish heap .
Let us sing about the great , the red-eyed Rikki-tikki ! ''
And Darzee filled his throat and sang .
`` If I could get up to your nest , I 'd roll your babies out ! ''
said Rikki-tikki .
`` You do n't know when to do the right thing at the right time .
You 're safe enough in your nest there , but it 's war for me down here .
Stop singing a minute , Darzee . ''
`` For the great , the beautiful Rikki-tikki 's sake I will stop , '' said Darzee .
`` What is it , O Killer of the terrible Nag ? ''
`` Where is Nagaina , for the third time ? ''
`` On the rubbish heap by the stables , mourning for Nag .
Great is Rikki-tikki with the white teeth . ''
`` Bother my white teeth !
Have you ever heard where she keeps her eggs ? ''
`` In the melon bed , on the end nearest the wall , where the sun strikes nearly all day .
She hid them there weeks ago . ''
`` And you never thought it worth while to tell me ?
The end nearest the wall , you said ? ''
`` Rikki-tikki , you are not going to eat her eggs ? ''
`` Not eat exactly ; no .
Darzee , if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stables and pretend that your wing is broken , and let Nagaina chase you away to this bush .
I must get to the melon-bed , and if I went there now she 'd see me . ''
Darzee was a feather-brained little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head .
And just because he knew that Nagaina 's children were born in eggs like his own , he did n't think at first that it was fair to kill them .
But his wife was a sensible bird , and she knew that cobra 's eggs meant young cobras later on .
So she flew off from the nest , and left Darzee to keep the babies warm , and continue his song about the death of Nag .
Darzee was very like a man in some ways .
She fluttered in front of Nagaina by the rubbish heap and cried out , `` Oh , my wing is broken !
The boy in the house threw a stone at me and broke it . ''
Then she fluttered more desperately than ever .
Nagaina lifted up her head and hissed , `` You warned Rikki-tikki when I would have killed him .
Indeed and truly , you 've chosen a bad place to be lame in . ''
And she moved toward Darzee 's wife , slipping along over the dust .
`` The boy broke it with a stone ! ''
shrieked Darzee 's wife .
`` Well !
It may be some consolation to you when you 're dead to know that I shall settle accounts with the boy .
My husband lies on the rubbish heap this morning , but before night the boy in the house will lie very still .
What is the use of running away ?
I am sure to catch you .
Little fool , look at me ! ''
Darzee 's wife knew better than to do that , for a bird who looks at a snake 's eyes gets so frightened that she can not move .
Darzee 's wife fluttered on , piping sorrowfully , and never leaving the ground , and Nagaina quickened her pace .
Rikki-tikki heard them going up the path from the stables , and he raced for the end of the melon patch near the wall .
There , in the warm litter above the melons , very cunningly hidden , he found twenty-five eggs , about the size of a bantam 's eggs , but with whitish skin instead of shell .
`` I was not a day too soon , '' he said , for he could see the baby cobras curled up inside the skin , and he knew that the minute they were hatched they could each kill a man or a mongoose .
He bit off the tops of the eggs as fast as he could , taking care to crush the young cobras , and turned over the litter from time to time to see whether he had missed any .
At last there were only three eggs left , and Rikki-tikki began to chuckle to himself , when he heard Darzee 's wife screaming : `` Rikki-tikki , I led Nagaina toward the house , and she has gone into the veranda , and -- oh , come quickly -- she means killing ! ''
Rikki-tikki smashed two eggs , and tumbled backward down the melon-bed with the third egg in his mouth , and scuttled to the veranda as hard as he could put foot to the ground .
Teddy and his mother and father were there at early breakfast , but Rikki-tikki saw that they were not eating anything .
They sat stone-still , and their faces were white .
Nagaina was coiled up on the matting by Teddy 's chair , within easy striking distance of Teddy 's bare leg , and she was swaying to and fro , singing a song of triumph .
`` Son of the big man that killed Nag , '' she hissed , `` stay still .
I am not ready yet .
Wait a little .
Keep very still , all you three !
If you move I strike , and if you do not move I strike .
Oh , foolish people , who killed my Nag ! ''
Teddy 's eyes were fixed on his father , and all his father could do was to whisper , `` Sit still , Teddy .
You must n't move .
Teddy , keep still . ''
Then Rikki-tikki came up and cried , `` Turn round , Nagaina .
Turn and fight ! ''
`` All in good time , '' said she , without moving her eyes .
`` I will settle my account with you presently .
Look at your friends , Rikki-tikki .
They are still and white .
They are afraid .
They dare not move , and if you come a step nearer I strike . ''
`` Look at your eggs , '' said Rikki-tikki , `` in the melon bed near the wall .
Go and look , Nagaina ! ''
The big snake turned half around , and saw the egg on the veranda .
`` Ah-h !
Give it to me , '' she said .
Rikki-tikki put his paws one on each side of the egg , and his eyes were blood-red .
`` What price for a snake 's egg ?
For a young cobra ?
For a young king cobra ?
For the last -- the very last of the brood ?
The ants are eating all the others down by the melon bed . ''
Nagaina spun clear round , forgetting everything for the sake of the one egg .
Rikki-tikki saw Teddy 's father shoot out a big hand , catch Teddy by the shoulder , and drag him across the little table with the tea-cups , safe and out of reach of Nagaina .
`` Tricked !
Tricked !
Tricked !
Rikk-tck-tck ! ''
chuckled Rikki-tikki .
`` The boy is safe , and it was I -- I -- I that caught Nag by the hood last night in the bathroom . ''
Then he began to jump up and down , all four feet together , his head close to the floor .
`` He threw me to and fro , but he could not shake me off .
He was dead before the big man blew him in two .
I did it !
Rikki-tikki-tck-tck !
Come then , Nagaina .
Come and fight with me .
You shall not be a widow long . ''
Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy , and the egg lay between Rikki-tikki 's paws .
`` Give me the egg , Rikki-tikki .
Give me the last of my eggs , and I will go away and never come back , '' she said , lowering her hood .
`` Yes , you will go away , and you will never come back .
For you will go to the rubbish heap with Nag .
Fight , widow !
The big man has gone for his gun !
Fight ! ''
Rikki-tikki was bounding all round Nagaina , keeping just out of reach of her stroke , his little eyes like hot coals .
Nagaina gathered herself together and flung out at him .
Rikki-tikki jumped up and backward .
Again and again and again she struck , and each time her head came with a whack on the matting of the veranda and she gathered herself together like a watch spring .
Then Rikki-tikki danced in a circle to get behind her , and Nagaina spun round to keep her head to his head , so that the rustle of her tail on the matting sounded like dry leaves blown along by the wind .
He had forgotten the egg .
It still lay on the veranda , and Nagaina came nearer and nearer to it , till at last , while Rikki-tikki was drawing breath , she caught it in her mouth , turned to the veranda steps , and flew like an arrow down the path , with Rikki-tikki behind her .
When the cobra runs for her life , she goes like a whip-lash flicked across a horse 's neck .
Rikki-tikki knew that he must catch her , or all the trouble would begin again .
She headed straight for the long grass by the thorn-bush , and as he was running Rikki-tikki heard Darzee still singing his foolish little song of triumph .
But Darzee 's wife was wiser .
She flew off her nest as Nagaina came along , and flapped her wings about Nagaina 's head .
If Darzee had helped they might have turned her , but Nagaina only lowered her hood and went on .
Still , the instant 's delay brought Rikki-tikki up to her , and as she plunged into the rat-hole where she and Nag used to live , his little white teeth were clenched on her tail , and he went down with her -- and very few mongooses , however wise and old they may be , care to follow a cobra into its hole .
It was dark in the hole ; and Rikki-tikki never knew when it might open out and give Nagaina room to turn and strike at him .
He held on savagely , and stuck out his feet to act as brakes on the dark slope of the hot , moist earth .
Then the grass by the mouth of the hole stopped waving , and Darzee said , `` It is all over with Rikki-tikki !
We must sing his death song .
Valiant Rikki-tikki is dead !
For Nagaina will surely kill him underground . ''
So he sang a very mournful song that he made up on the spur of the minute , and just as he got to the most touching part , the grass quivered again , and Rikki-tikki , covered with dirt , dragged himself out of the hole leg by leg , licking his whiskers .
Darzee stopped with a little shout .
Rikki-tikki shook some of the dust out of his fur and sneezed .
`` It is all over , '' he said .
`` The widow will never come out again . ''
And the red ants that live between the grass stems heard him , and began to troop down one after another to see if he had spoken the truth .
Rikki-tikki curled himself up in the grass and slept where he was -- slept and slept till it was late in the afternoon , for he had done a hard day 's work .
`` Now , '' he said , when he awoke , `` I will go back to the house .
Tell the Coppersmith , Darzee , and he will tell the garden that Nagaina is dead . ''
The Coppersmith is a bird who makes a noise exactly like the beating of a little hammer on a copper pot ; and the reason he is always making it is because he is the town crier to every Indian garden , and tells all the news to everybody who cares to listen .
As Rikki-tikki went up the path , he heard his `` attention '' notes like a tiny dinner gong , and then the steady `` Ding-dong-tock !
Nag is dead -- dong !
Nagaina is dead !
Ding-dong-tock ! ''
That set all the birds in the garden singing , and the frogs croaking , for Nag and Nagaina used to eat frogs as well as little birds .
When Rikki got to the house , Teddy and Teddy 's mother -LRB- she looked very white still , for she had been fainting -RRB- and Teddy 's father came out and almost cried over him ; and that night he ate all that was given him till he could eat no more , and went to bed on Teddy 's shoulder , where Teddy 's mother saw him when she came to look late at night .
`` He saved our lives and Teddy 's life , '' she said to her husband .
`` Just think , he saved all our lives . ''
Rikki-tikki woke up with a jump , for the mongooses are light sleepers .
`` Oh , it 's you , '' said he .
`` What are you bothering for ?
All the cobras are dead .
And if they were n't , I 'm here . ''
Rikki-tikki had a right to be proud of himself .
But he did not grow too proud , and he kept that garden as a mongoose should keep it , with tooth and jump and spring and bite , till never a cobra dared show its head inside the walls .
Darzee 's Chant -LRB- Sung in honor of Rikki-tikki-tavi -RRB- Singer and tailor am I -- Doubled the joys that I know -- Proud of my lilt to the sky , Proud of the house that I sew -- Over and under , so weave I my music -- so weave I the house that I sew .
Sing to your fledglings again , Mother , oh lift up your head !
Evil that plagued us is slain , Death in the garden lies dead .
Terror that hid in the roses is impotent -- flung on the dung-hill and dead !
Who has delivered us , who ?
Tell me his nest and his name .
Rikki , the valiant , the true , Tikki , with eyeballs of flame , Rikk-tikki-tikki , the ivory-fanged , the hunter with eyeballs of flame !
Give him the Thanks of the Birds , Bowing with tail feathers spread !
Praise him with nightingale words -- Nay , I will praise him instead .
Hear !
I will sing you the praise of the bottle-tailed Rikki , with eyeballs of red !
-LRB- Here Rikki-tikki interrupted , and the rest of the song is lost . -RRB-
Toomai of the Elephants I will remember what I was , I am sick of rope and chain -- I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs .
I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane : I will go out to my own kind , and the wood-folk in their lairs .
I will go out until the day , until the morning break -- Out to the wind 's untainted kiss , the water 's clean caress ; I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake .
I will revisit my lost loves , and playmates masterless !
Kala Nag , which means Black Snake , had served the Indian Government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven years , and as he was fully twenty years old when he was caught , that makes him nearly seventy -- a ripe age for an elephant .
He remembered pushing , with a big leather pad on his forehead , at a gun stuck in deep mud , and that was before the Afghan War of 1842 , and he had not then come to his full strength .
His mother Radha Pyari , -- Radha the darling , -- who had been caught in the same drive with Kala Nag , told him , before his little milk tusks had dropped out , that elephants who were afraid always got hurt .
Kala Nag knew that that advice was good , for the first time that he saw a shell burst he backed , screaming , into a stand of piled rifles , and the bayonets pricked him in all his softest places .
So , before he was twenty-five , he gave up being afraid , and so he was the best-loved and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of India .
He had carried tents , twelve hundred pounds ' weight of tents , on the march in Upper India .
He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of a steam crane and taken for days across the water , and made to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India , and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala , and had come back again in the steamer entitled , so the soldiers said , to the Abyssinian War medal .
He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid , ten years later ; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein .
There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was shirking his fair share of work .
After that he was taken off timber-hauling , and employed , with a few score other elephants who were trained to the business , in helping to catch wild elephants among the Garo hills .
Elephants are very strictly preserved by the Indian Government .
There is one whole department which does nothing else but hunt them , and catch them , and break them in , and send them up and down the country as they are needed for work .
Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders , and his tusks had been cut off short at five feet , and bound round the ends , to prevent them splitting , with bands of copper ; but he could do more with those stumps than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones .
When , after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across the hills , the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last stockade , and the big drop gate , made of tree trunks lashed together , jarred down behind them , Kala Nag , at the word of command , would go into that flaring , trumpeting pandemonium -LRB- generally at night , when the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances -RRB- , and , picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob , would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other elephants roped and tied the smaller ones .
There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag , the old wise Black Snake , did not know , for he had stood up more than once in his time to the charge of the wounded tiger , and , curling up his soft trunk to be out of harm 's way , had knocked the springing brute sideways in mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head , that he had invented all by himself ; had knocked him over , and kneeled upon him with his huge knees till the life went out with a gasp and a howl , and there was only a fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail .
`` Yes , '' said Big Toomai , his driver , the son of Black Toomai who had taken him to Abyssinia , and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had seen him caught , `` there is nothing that the Black Snake fears except me .
He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him , and he will live to see four . ''
`` He is afraid of me also , '' said Little Toomai , standing up to his full height of four feet , with only one rag upon him .
He was ten years old , the eldest son of Big Toomai , and , according to custom , he would take his father 's place on Kala Nag 's neck when he grew up , and would handle the heavy iron ankus , the elephant goad , that had been worn smooth by his father , and his grandfather , and his great-grandfather .
He knew what he was talking of ; for he had been born under Kala Nag 's shadow , had played with the end of his trunk before he could walk , had taken him down to water as soon as he could walk , and Kala Nag would no more have dreamed of disobeying his shrill little orders than he would have dreamed of killing him on that day when Big Toomai carried the little brown baby under Kala Nag 's tusks , and told him to salute his master that was to be .
`` Yes , '' said Little Toomai , `` he is afraid of me , '' and he took long strides up to Kala Nag , called him a fat old pig , and made him lift up his feet one after the other .
`` Wah ! ''
said Little Toomai , `` thou art a big elephant , '' and he wagged his fluffy head , quoting his father .
`` The Government may pay for elephants , but they belong to us mahouts .
When thou art old , Kala Nag , there will come some rich rajah , and he will buy thee from the Government , on account of thy size and thy manners , and then thou wilt have nothing to do but to carry gold earrings in thy ears , and a gold howdah on thy back , and a red cloth covered with gold on thy sides , and walk at the head of the processions of the King .
Then I shall sit on thy neck , O Kala Nag , with a silver ankus , and men will run before us with golden sticks , crying , ` Room for the King 's elephant ! '
That will be good , Kala Nag , but not so good as this hunting in the jungles . ''
`` Umph ! ''
said Big Toomai .
`` Thou art a boy , and as wild as a buffalo-calf .
This running up and down among the hills is not the best Government service .
I am getting old , and I do not love wild elephants .
Give me brick elephant lines , one stall to each elephant , and big stumps to tie them to safely , and flat , broad roads to exercise upon , instead of this come-and-go camping .
Aha , the Cawnpore barracks were good .
There was a bazaar close by , and only three hours ' work a day . ''
Little Toomai remembered the Cawnpore elephant-lines and said nothing .
He very much preferred the camp life , and hated those broad , flat roads , with the daily grubbing for grass in the forage reserve , and the long hours when there was nothing to do except to watch Kala Nag fidgeting in his pickets .
What Little Toomai liked was to scramble up bridle paths that only an elephant could take ; the dip into the valley below ; the glimpses of the wild elephants browsing miles away ; the rush of the frightened pig and peacock under Kala Nag 's feet ; the blinding warm rains , when all the hills and valleys smoked ; the beautiful misty mornings when nobody knew where they would camp that night ; the steady , cautious drive of the wild elephants , and the mad rush and blaze and hullabaloo of the last night 's drive , when the elephants poured into the stockade like boulders in a landslide , found that they could not get out , and flung themselves at the heavy posts only to be driven back by yells and flaring torches and volleys of blank cartridge .
Even a little boy could be of use there , and Toomai was as useful as three boys .
He would get his torch and wave it , and yell with the best .
But the really good time came when the driving out began , and the Keddah -- that is , the stockade -- looked like a picture of the end of the world , and men had to make signs to one another , because they could not hear themselves speak .
Then Little Toomai would climb up to the top of one of the quivering stockade posts , his sun-bleached brown hair flying loose all over his shoulders , and he looking like a goblin in the torch-light .
And as soon as there was a lull you could hear his high-pitched yells of encouragement to Kala Nag , above the trumpeting and crashing , and snapping of ropes , and groans of the tethered elephants .
`` Mael , mael , Kala Nag !
-LRB- Go on , go on , Black Snake ! -RRB-
Dant do !
-LRB- Give him the tusk ! -RRB-
Somalo !
Somalo !
-LRB- Careful , careful ! -RRB-
Maro !
Mar !
-LRB- Hit him , hit him ! -RRB-
Mind the post !
Arre !
Arre !
Hai !
Yai !
Kya-a-ah ! ''
he would shout , and the big fight between Kala Nag and the wild elephant would sway to and fro across the Keddah , and the old elephant catchers would wipe the sweat out of their eyes , and find time to nod to Little Toomai wriggling with joy on the top of the posts .
He did more than wriggle .
One night he slid down from the post and slipped in between the elephants and threw up the loose end of a rope , which had dropped , to a driver who was trying to get a purchase on the leg of a kicking young calf -LRB- calves always give more trouble than full-grown animals -RRB- .
Kala Nag saw him , caught him in his trunk , and handed him up to Big Toomai , who slapped him then and there , and put him back on the post .
Next morning he gave him a scolding and said , `` Are not good brick elephant lines and a little tent carrying enough , that thou must needs go elephant catching on thy own account , little worthless ?
Now those foolish hunters , whose pay is less than my pay , have spoken to Petersen Sahib of the matter . ''
Little Toomai was frightened .
He did not know much of white men , but Petersen Sahib was the greatest white man in the world to him .
He was the head of all the Keddah operations -- the man who caught all the elephants for the Government of India , and who knew more about the ways of elephants than any living man .
`` What -- what will happen ? ''
said Little Toomai .
`` Happen !
The worst that can happen .
Petersen Sahib is a madman .
Else why should he go hunting these wild devils ?
He may even require thee to be an elephant catcher , to sleep anywhere in these fever-filled jungles , and at last to be trampled to death in the Keddah .
It is well that this nonsense ends safely .
Next week the catching is over , and we of the plains are sent back to our stations .
Then we will march on smooth roads , and forget all this hunting .
But , son , I am angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese jungle folk .
Kala Nag will obey none but me , so I must go with him into the Keddah , but he is only a fighting elephant , and he does not help to rope them .
So I sit at my ease , as befits a mahout , -- not a mere hunter , -- a mahout , I say , and a man who gets a pension at the end of his service .
Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah ?
Bad one !
Wicked one !
Worthless son !
Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears , and see that there are no thorns in his feet .
Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter -- a follower of elephant 's foot tracks , a jungle bear .
Bah !
Shame !
Go ! ''
Little Toomai went off without saying a word , but he told Kala Nag all his grievances while he was examining his feet .
`` No matter , '' said Little Toomai , turning up the fringe of Kala Nag 's huge right ear .
`` They have said my name to Petersen Sahib , and perhaps -- and perhaps -- and perhaps -- who knows ?
Hai !
That is a big thorn that I have pulled out ! ''
The next few days were spent in getting the elephants together , in walking the newly caught wild elephants up and down between a couple of tame ones to prevent them giving too much trouble on the downward march to the plains , and in taking stock of the blankets and ropes and things that had been worn out or lost in the forest .
Petersen Sahib came in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini ; he had been paying off other camps among the hills , for the season was coming to an end , and there was a native clerk sitting at a table under a tree , to pay the drivers their wages .
As each man was paid he went back to his elephant , and joined the line that stood ready to start .
The catchers , and hunters , and beaters , the men of the regular Keddah , who stayed in the jungle year in and year out , sat on the backs of the elephants that belonged to Petersen Sahib 's permanent force , or leaned against the trees with their guns across their arms , and made fun of the drivers who were going away , and laughed when the newly caught elephants broke the line and ran about .
Big Toomai went up to the clerk with Little Toomai behind him , and Machua Appa , the head tracker , said in an undertone to a friend of his , `` There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at least .
'T is a pity to send that young jungle-cock to molt in the plains . ''
Now Petersen Sahib had ears all over him , as a man must have who listens to the most silent of all living things -- the wild elephant .
He turned where he was lying all along on Pudmini 's back and said , `` What is that ?
I did not know of a man among the plains-drivers who had wit enough to rope even a dead elephant . ''
`` This is not a man , but a boy .
He went into the Keddah at the last drive , and threw Barmao there the rope , when we were trying to get that young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from his mother . ''
Machua Appa pointed at Little Toomai , and Petersen Sahib looked , and Little Toomai bowed to the earth .
`` He throw a rope ?
He is smaller than a picket-pin .
Little one , what is thy name ? ''
said Petersen Sahib .
Little Toomai was too frightened to speak , but Kala Nag was behind him , and Toomai made a sign with his hand , and the elephant caught him up in his trunk and held him level with Pudmini 's forehead , in front of the great Petersen Sahib .
Then Little Toomai covered his face with his hands , for he was only a child , and except where elephants were concerned , he was just as bashful as a child could be .
`` Oho ! ''
said Petersen Sahib , smiling underneath his mustache , `` and why didst thou teach thy elephant that trick ?
Was it to help thee steal green corn from the roofs of the houses when the ears are put out to dry ? ''
`` Not green corn , Protector of the Poor , -- melons , '' said Little Toomai , and all the men sitting about broke into a roar of laughter .
Most of them had taught their elephants that trick when they were boys .
Little Toomai was hanging eight feet up in the air , and he wished very much that he were eight feet underground .
`` He is Toomai , my son , Sahib , '' said Big Toomai , scowling .
`` He is a very bad boy , and he will end in a jail , Sahib . ''
`` Of that I have my doubts , '' said Petersen Sahib .
`` A boy who can face a full Keddah at his age does not end in jails .
See , little one , here are four annas to spend in sweetmeats because thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair .
In time thou mayest become a hunter too . ''
Big Toomai scowled more than ever .
`` Remember , though , that Keddahs are not good for children to play in , '' Petersen Sahib went on .
`` Must I never go there , Sahib ? ''
asked Little Toomai with a big gasp .
`` Yes . ''
Petersen Sahib smiled again .
`` When thou hast seen the elephants dance .
That is the proper time .
Come to me when thou hast seen the elephants dance , and then I will let thee go into all the Keddahs . ''
There was another roar of laughter , for that is an old joke among elephant-catchers , and it means just never .
There are great cleared flat places hidden away in the forests that are called elephants ' ball-rooms , but even these are only found by accident , and no man has ever seen the elephants dance .
When a driver boasts of his skill and bravery the other drivers say , `` And when didst thou see the elephants dance ? ''
Kala Nag put Little Toomai down , and he bowed to the earth again and went away with his father , and gave the silver four-anna piece to his mother , who was nursing his baby brother , and they all were put up on Kala Nag 's back , and the line of grunting , squealing elephants rolled down the hill path to the plains .
It was a very lively march on account of the new elephants , who gave trouble at every ford , and needed coaxing or beating every other minute .
Big Toomai prodded Kala Nag spitefully , for he was very angry , but Little Toomai was too happy to speak .
Petersen Sahib had noticed him , and given him money , so he felt as a private soldier would feel if he had been called out of the ranks and praised by his commander-in-chief .
`` What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance ? ''
he said , at last , softly to his mother .
Big Toomai heard him and grunted .
`` That thou shouldst never be one of these hill buffaloes of trackers .
That was what he meant .
Oh , you in front , what is blocking the way ? ''
An Assamese driver , two or three elephants ahead , turned round angrily , crying : `` Bring up Kala Nag , and knock this youngster of mine into good behavior .
Why should Petersen Sahib have chosen me to go down with you donkeys of the rice fields ?
Lay your beast alongside , Toomai , and let him prod with his tusks .
By all the Gods of the Hills , these new elephants are possessed , or else they can smell their companions in the jungle . ''
Kala Nag hit the new elephant in the ribs and knocked the wind out of him , as Big Toomai said , `` We have swept the hills of wild elephants at the last catch .
It is only your carelessness in driving .
Must I keep order along the whole line ? ''
`` Hear him ! ''
said the other driver .
`` We have swept the hills !
Ho !
Ho !
You are very wise , you plains people .
Anyone but a mud-head who never saw the jungle would know that they know that the drives are ended for the season .
Therefore all the wild elephants to-night will -- but why should I waste wisdom on a river-turtle ? ''
`` What will they do ? ''
Little Toomai called out .
`` Ohe , little one .
Art thou there ?
Well , I will tell thee , for thou hast a cool head .
They will dance , and it behooves thy father , who has swept all the hills of all the elephants , to double-chain his pickets to-night . ''
`` What talk is this ? ''
said Big Toomai .
`` For forty years , father and son , we have tended elephants , and we have never heard such moonshine about dances . ''
`` Yes ; but a plainsman who lives in a hut knows only the four walls of his hut .
Well , leave thy elephants unshackled tonight and see what comes .
As for their dancing , I have seen the place where -- Bapree-bap !
How many windings has the Dihang River ?
Here is another ford , and we must swim the calves .
Stop still , you behind there . ''
And in this way , talking and wrangling and splashing through the rivers , they made their first march to a sort of receiving camp for the new elephants .
But they lost their tempers long before they got there .
Then the elephants were chained by their hind legs to their big stumps of pickets , and extra ropes were fitted to the new elephants , and the fodder was piled before them , and the hill drivers went back to Petersen Sahib through the afternoon light , telling the plains drivers to be extra careful that night , and laughing when the plains drivers asked the reason .
Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag 's supper , and as evening fell , wandered through the camp , unspeakably happy , in search of a tom-tom .
When an Indian child 's heart is full , he does not run about and make a noise in an irregular fashion .
He sits down to a sort of revel all by himself .
And Little Toomai had been spoken to by Petersen Sahib !
If he had not found what he wanted , I believe he would have been ill .
But the sweetmeat seller in the camp lent him a little tom-tom -- a drum beaten with the flat of the hand -- and he sat down , cross-legged , before Kala Nag as the stars began to come out , the tom-tom in his lap , and he thumped and he thumped and he thumped , and the more he thought of the great honor that had been done to him , the more he thumped , all alone among the elephant fodder .
There was no tune and no words , but the thumping made him happy .
The new elephants strained at their ropes , and squealed and trumpeted from time to time , and he could hear his mother in the camp hut putting his small brother to sleep with an old , old song about the great God Shiv , who once told all the animals what they should eat .
It is a very soothing lullaby , and the first verse says : Shiv , who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow , Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago , Gave to each his portion , food and toil and fate , From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate .
All things made he -- Shiva the Preserver .
Mahadeo !
Mahadeo !
He made all -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each verse , till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the fodder at Kala Nag 's side .
At last the elephants began to lie down one after another as is their custom , till only Kala Nag at the right of the line was left standing up ; and he rocked slowly from side to side , his ears put forward to listen to the night wind as it blew very slowly across the hills .
The air was full of all the night noises that , taken together , make one big silence -- the click of one bamboo stem against the other , the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth , the scratch and squawk of a half-waked bird -LRB- birds are awake in the night much more often than we imagine -RRB- , and the fall of water ever so far away .
Little Toomai slept for some time , and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight , and Kala Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked .
Little Toomai turned , rustling in the fodder , and watched the curve of his big back against half the stars in heaven , and while he watched he heard , so far away that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through the stillness , the `` hoot-toot '' of a wild elephant .
All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot , and their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts , and they came out and drove in the picket pegs with big mallets , and tightened this rope and knotted that till all was quiet .
One new elephant had nearly grubbed up his picket , and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag 's leg chain and shackled that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot , but slipped a loop of grass string round Kala Nag 's leg , and told him to remember that he was tied fast .
He knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same thing hundreds of times before .
Kala Nag did not answer to the order by gurgling , as he usually did .
He stood still , looking out across the moonlight , his head a little raised and his ears spread like fans , up to the great folds of the Garo hills .
`` Tend to him if he grows restless in the night , '' said Big Toomai to Little Toomai , and he went into the hut and slept .
Little Toomai was just going to sleep , too , when he heard the coir string snap with a little `` tang , '' and Kala Nag rolled out of his pickets as slowly and as silently as a cloud rolls out of the mouth of a valley .
Little Toomai pattered after him , barefooted , down the road in the moonlight , calling under his breath , `` Kala Nag !
Kala Nag !
Take me with you , O Kala Nag ! ''
The elephant turned , without a sound , took three strides back to the boy in the moonlight , put down his trunk , swung him up to his neck , and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees , slipped into the forest .
There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines , and then the silence shut down on everything , and Kala Nag began to move .
Sometimes a tuft of high grass washed along his sides as a wave washes along the sides of a ship , and sometimes a cluster of wild-pepper vines would scrape along his back , or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder touched it .
But between those times he moved absolutely without any sound , drifting through the thick Garo forest as though it had been smoke .
He was going uphill , but though Little Toomai watched the stars in the rifts of the trees , he could not tell in what direction .
Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a minute , and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying all speckled and furry under the moonlight for miles and miles , and the blue-white mist over the river in the hollow .
Toomai leaned forward and looked , and he felt that the forest was awake below him -- awake and alive and crowded .
A big brown fruit-eating bat brushed past his ear ; a porcupine 's quills rattled in the thicket ; and in the darkness between the tree stems he heard a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth , and snuffing as it digged .
Then the branches closed over his head again , and Kala Nag began to go down into the valley -- not quietly this time , but as a runaway gun goes down a steep bank -- in one rush .
The huge limbs moved as steadily as pistons , eight feet to each stride , and the wrinkled skin of the elbow points rustled .
The undergrowth on either side of him ripped with a noise like torn canvas , and the saplings that he heaved away right and left with his shoulders sprang back again and banged him on the flank , and great trails of creepers , all matted together , hung from his tusks as he threw his head from side to side and plowed out his pathway .
Then Little Toomai laid himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging bough should sweep him to the ground , and he wished that he were back in the lines again .
The grass began to get squashy , and Kala Nag 's feet sucked and squelched as he put them down , and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chilled Little Toomai .
There was a splash and a trample , and the rush of running water , and Kala Nag strode through the bed of a river , feeling his way at each step .
Above the noise of the water , as it swirled round the elephant 's legs , Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some trumpeting both upstream and down -- great grunts and angry snortings , and all the mist about him seemed to be full of rolling , wavy shadows .
`` Ai ! ''
he said , half aloud , his teeth chattering .
`` The elephant-folk are out tonight .
It is the dance , then ! ''
Kala Nag swashed out of the water , blew his trunk clear , and began another climb .
But this time he was not alone , and he had not to make his path .
That was made already , six feet wide , in front of him , where the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover itself and stand up .
Many elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before .
Little Toomai looked back , and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig 's eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting himself out of the misty river .
Then the trees closed up again , and they went on and up , with trumpetings and crashings , and the sound of breaking branches on every side of them .
At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree-trunks at the very top of the hill .
They were part of a circle of trees that grew round an irregular space of some three or four acres , and in all that space , as Little Toomai could see , the ground had been trampled down as hard as a brick floor .
Some trees grew in the center of the clearing , but their bark was rubbed away , and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and polished in the patches of moonlight .
There were creepers hanging from the upper branches , and the bells of the flowers of the creepers , great waxy white things like convolvuluses , hung down fast asleep .
But within the limits of the clearing there was not a single blade of green -- nothing but the trampled earth .
The moonlight showed it all iron gray , except where some elephants stood upon it , and their shadows were inky black .
Little Toomai looked , holding his breath , with his eyes starting out of his head , and as he looked , more and more and more elephants swung out into the open from between the tree trunks .
Little Toomai could only count up to ten , and he counted again and again on his fingers till he lost count of the tens , and his head began to swim .
Outside the clearing he could hear them crashing in the undergrowth as they worked their way up the hillside , but as soon as they were within the circle of the tree trunks they moved like ghosts .
There were white-tusked wild males , with fallen leaves and nuts and twigs lying in the wrinkles of their necks and the folds of their ears ; fat , slow-footed she-elephants , with restless , little pinky black calves only three or four feet high running under their stomachs ; young elephants with their tusks just beginning to show , and very proud of them ; lanky , scraggy old-maid elephants , with their hollow anxious faces , and trunks like rough bark ; savage old bull elephants , scarred from shoulder to flank with great weals and cuts of bygone fights , and the caked dirt of their solitary mud baths dropping from their shoulders ; and there was one with a broken tusk and the marks of the full-stroke , the terrible drawing scrape , of a tiger 's claws on his side .
They were standing head to head , or walking to and fro across the ground in couples , or rocking and swaying all by themselves -- scores and scores of elephants .
