On Saturday the headline was `` Even Berlin Admits Offensive Checked , '' and for the first time in that terrible week the Ingleside folk dared to draw a long breath .
`` Well , we have got one week over -- now for the next , '' said Susan staunchly .
`` I feel like a prisoner on the rack when they stopped turning it , '' Miss Oliver said to Rilla , as they went to church on Easter morning .
`` But I am not off the rack .
The torture may begin again at any time . ''
`` I doubted God last Sunday , '' said Rilla , `` but I do n't doubt him today .
Evil can not win .
Spirit is on our side and it is bound to outlast flesh . ''
Nevertheless her faith was often tried in the dark spring that followed .
Armageddon was not , as they had hoped , a matter of a few days .
It stretched out into weeks and months .
Again and again Hindenburg struck his savage , sudden blows , with alarming , though futile success .
Again and again the military critics declared the situation extremely perilous .
Again and again Cousin Sophia agreed with the military critics .
`` If the Allies go back three miles more the war is lost , '' she wailed .
`` Is the British navy anchored in those three miles ? ''
demanded Susan scornfully .
`` It is the opinion of a man who knows all about it , '' said Cousin Sophia solemnly .
`` There is no such person , '' retorted Susan .
`` As for the military critics , they do not know one blessed thing about it , any more than you or I .
They have been mistaken times out of number .
Why do you always look on the dark side , Sophia Crawford ? ''
`` Because there ai n't any bright side , Susan Baker . ''
`` Oh , is there not ?
It is the twentieth of April , and Hindy is not in Paris yet , although he said he would be there by April first .
Is that not a bright spot at least ? ''
`` It is my opinion that the Germans will be in Paris before very long and more than that , Susan Baker , they will be in Canada . ''
`` Not in this part of it .
The Huns shall never set foot in Prince Edward Island as long as I can handle a pitchfork , '' declared Susan , looking , and feeling quite equal to routing the entire German army single-handed .
`` No , Sophia Crawford , to tell you the plain truth I am sick and tired of your gloomy predictions .
I do not deny that some mistakes have been made .
The Germans would never have got back Passchendaele if the Canadians had been left there ; and it was bad business trusting to those Portuguese at the Lys River .
But that is no reason why you or anyone should go about proclaiming the war is lost .
I do not want to quarrel with you , least of all at such a time as this , but our morale must be kept up , and I am going to speak my mind out plainly and tell you that if you can not keep from such croaking your room is better than your company . ''
Cousin Sophia marched home in high dudgeon to digest her affront , and did not reappear in Susan 's kitchen for many weeks .
Perhaps it was just as well , for they were hard weeks , when the Germans continued to strike , now here , now there , and seemingly vital points fell to them at every blow .
And one day in early May , when wind and sunshine frolicked in Rainbow Valley and the maple grove was golden-green and the harbour all blue and dimpled and white-capped , the news came about Jem .
There had been a trench raid on the Canadian front -- a little trench raid so insignificant that it was never even mentioned in the dispatches and when it was over Lieutenant James Blythe was reported `` wounded and missing . ''
`` I think this is even worse than the news of his death would have been , '' moaned Rilla through her white lips , that night .
`` No -- no -- ` missing ' leaves a little hope , Rilla , '' urged Gertrude Oliver .
`` Yes -- torturing , agonized hope that keeps you from ever becoming quite resigned to the worst , '' said Rilla .
`` Oh , Miss Oliver -- must we go for weeks and months -- not knowing whether Jem is alive or dead ?
Perhaps we will never know .
I -- I can not bear it -- I can not .
Walter -- and now Jem .
This will kill mother -- look at her face , Miss Oliver , and you will see that .
And Faith -- poor Faith -- how can she bear it ? ''
Gertrude shivered with pain .
She looked up at the pictures hanging over Rilla 's desk and felt a sudden hatred of Mona Lisa 's endless smile .
`` Will not even this blot it off your face ? ''
she thought savagely .
But she said gently , `` No , it wo n't kill your mother .
She 's made of finer mettle than that .
Besides , she refuses to believe Jem is dead ; she will cling to hope and we must all do that .
Faith , you may be sure , will do it . ''
`` I can not , '' moaned Rilla , `` Jem was wounded -- what chance would he have ?
Even if the Germans found him -- we know how they have treated wounded prisoners .
I wish I could hope , Miss Oliver -- it would help , I suppose .
But hope seems dead in me .
I ca n't hope without some reason for it -- and there is no reason . ''
When Miss Oliver had gone to her own room and Rilla was lying on her bed in the moonlight , praying desperately for a little strength , Susan stepped in like a gaunt shadow and sat down beside her .
`` Rilla , dear , do not you worry .
Little Jem is not dead . ''
`` Oh , how can you believe that , Susan ? ''
`` Because I know .
Listen you to me .
When that word came this morning the first thing I thought of was Dog Monday .
And tonight , as soon as I got the supper dishes washed and the bread set , I went down to the station .
There was Dog Monday , waiting for the train , just as patient as usual .
Now , Rilla , dear , that trench raid was four days ago -- last Monday -- and I said to the station-agent , ` Can you tell me if that dog howled or made any kind of a fuss last Monday night ? '
He thought it over a bit , and then he said , ` No , he did not . '
` Are you sure ? '
I said .
` There 's more depends on it than you think ! '
` Dead sure , ' he said . '
I was up all night last Monday night because my mare was sick , and there was never a sound out of him .
I would have heard if there had been , for the stable door was open all the time and his kennel is right across from it ! '
Now Rilla dear , those were the man 's very words .
And you know how that poor little dog howled all night after the battle of Courcelette .
Yet he did not love Walter as much as he loved Jem .
If he mourned for Walter like that , do you suppose he would sleep sound in his kennel the night after Jem had been killed ?
No , Rilla dear , little Jem is not dead , and that you may tie to .
If he were , Dog Monday would have known , just as he knew before , and he would not be still waiting for the trains . ''
It was absurd -- and irrational -- and impossible .
But Rilla believed it , for all that ; and Mrs. Blythe believed it ; and the doctor , though he smiled faintly in pretended derision , felt an odd confidence replace his first despair ; and foolish and absurd or not , they all plucked up heart and courage to carry on , just because a faithful little dog at the Glen station was still watching with unbroken faith for his master to come home .
Common sense might scorn -- incredulity might mutter `` Mere superstition '' -- but in their hearts the folk of Ingleside stood by their belief that Dog Monday knew .
CHAPTER XXX THE TURNING OF THE TIDE Susan was very sorrowful when she saw the beautiful old lawn of Ingleside ploughed up that spring and planted with potatoes .
Yet she made no protest , even when her beloved peony bed was sacrificed .
But when the Government passed the Daylight Saving law Susan balked .
There was a Higher Power than the Union Government , to which Susan owed allegiance .
`` Do you think it right to meddle with the arrangements of the Almighty ? ''
she demanded indignantly of the doctor .
The doctor , quite unmoved , responded that the law must be observed , and the Ingleside clocks were moved on accordingly .
But the doctor had no power over Susan 's little alarm .
`` I bought that with my own money , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' she said firmly , `` and it shall go on God 's time and not Borden 's time . ''
Susan got up and went to bed by `` God 's time , '' and regulated her own goings and comings by it .
She served the meals , under protest , by Borden 's time , and she had to go to church by it , which was the crowning injury .
But she said her prayers by her own clock , and fed the hens by it ; so that there was always a furtive triumph in her eye when she looked at the doctor .
She had got the better of him by so much at least .
`` Whiskers-on-the-moon is very much delighted with this daylight saving business , '' she told him one evening .
`` Of course he naturally would be , since I understand that the Germans invented it .
I hear he came near losing his entire wheat-crop lately .
Warren Mead 's cows broke into the field one day last week -- it was the very day the Germans captured the Chemang-de-dam , which may have been a coincidence or may not -- and were making fine havoc of it when Mrs. Dick Clow happened to see them from her attic window .
At first she had no intention of letting Mr. Pryor know .
She told me she had just gloated over the sight of those cows pasturing on his wheat .
She felt it served him exactly right .
But presently she reflected that the wheat-crop was a matter of great importance and that ` save and serve ' meant that those cows must be routed out as much as it meant anything .
So she went down and phoned over to Whiskers about the matter .
All the thanks she got was that he said something queer right out to her .
She is not prepared to state that it was actually swearing for you can not be sure just what you hear over the phone ; but she has her own opinion , and so have I , but I will not express it for here comes Mr. Meredith , and Whiskers is one of his elders , so we must be discreet . ''
`` Are you looking for the new star ? ''
asked Mr. Meredith , joining Miss Oliver and Rilla , who were standing among the blossoming potatoes gazing skyward .
`` Yes -- we have found it -- see , it is just above the tip of the tallest old pine . ''
`` It 's wonderful to be looking at something that happened three thousand years ago , is n't it ? ''
said Rilla .
`` That is when astronomers think the collision took place which produced this new star .
It makes me feel horribly insignificant , '' she added under her breath .
`` Even this event can not dwarf into what may be the proper perspective in star systems the fact that the Germans are again only one leap from Paris , '' said Gertrude restlessly .
`` I think I would like to have been an astronomer , '' said Mr. Meredith dreamily , gazing at the star .
`` There must be a strange pleasure in it , '' agreed Miss Oliver , `` an unearthly pleasure , in more senses than one .
I would like to have a few astronomers for my friends . ''
`` Fancy talking the gossip of the hosts of heaven , '' laughed Rilla .
`` I wonder if astronomers feel a very deep interest in earthly affairs ? ''
said the doctor .
`` Perhaps students of the canals of Mars would not be so keenly sensitive to the significance of a few yards of trenches lost or won on the western front . ''
`` I have read somewhere , '' said Mr. Meredith , `` that Ernest Renan wrote one of his books during the siege of Paris in 1870 and ` enjoyed the writing of it very much . '
I suppose one would call him a philosopher . ''
`` I have read also , '' said Miss Oliver , `` that shortly before his death he said that his only regret in dying was that he must die before he had seen what that ` extremely interesting young man , the German Emperor , ' would do in his life .
If Ernest Renan ` walked ' today and saw what that interesting young man had done to his beloved France , not to speak of the world , I wonder if his mental detachment would be as complete as it was in 1870 . ''
`` I wonder where Jem is tonight , '' thought Rilla , in a sudden bitter inrush of remembrance .
It was over a month since the news had come about Jem .
Nothing had been discovered concerning him , in spite of all efforts .
Two or three letters had come from him , written before the trench raid , and since then there had been only unbroken silence .
Now the Germans were again at the Marne , pressing nearer and nearer Paris ; now rumours were coming of another Austrian offensive against the Piave line .
Rilla turned away from the new star , sick at heart .
It was one of the moments when hope and courage failed her utterly -- when it seemed impossible to go on even one more day .
If only they knew what had happened to Jem -- you can face anything you know .
But a beleaguerment of fear and doubt and suspense is a hard thing for the morale .
Surely , if Jem were alive , some word would have come through .
He must be dead .
Only -- they would never know -- they could never be quite sure ; and Dog Monday would wait for the train until he died of old age .
Monday was only a poor , faithful , rheumatic little dog , who knew nothing more of his master 's fate than they did .
Rilla had a `` white night '' and did not fall asleep until late .
When she wakened Gertrude Oliver was sitting at her window leaning out to meet the silver mystery of the dawn .
Her clever , striking profile , with the masses of black hair behind it , came out clearly against the pallid gold of the eastern sky .
Rilla remembered Jem 's admiration of the curve of Miss Oliver 's brow and chin , and she shuddered .
Everything that reminded her of Jem was beginning to give intolerable pain .
Walter 's death had inflicted on her heart a terrible wound .
But it had been a clean wound and had healed slowly , as such wounds do , though the scar must remain for ever .
But the torture of Jem 's disappearance was another thing : there was a poison in it that kept it from healing .
The alternations of hope and despair , the endless watching each day for the letter that never came -- that might never come -- the newspaper tales of ill-usage of prisoners -- the bitter wonder as to Jem 's wound -- all were increasingly hard to bear .
Gertrude Oliver turned her head .
There was an odd brilliancy in her eyes .
`` Rilla , I 've had another dream . ''
`` Oh , no -- no , '' cried Rilla , shrinking .
Miss Oliver 's dreams had always foretold coming disaster .
`` Rilla , it was a good dream .
Listen -- I dreamed just as I did four years ago , that I stood on the veranda steps and looked down the Glen .
And it was still covered by waves that lapped about my feet .
But as I looked the waves began to ebb -- and they ebbed as swiftly as , four years ago , they rolled in -- ebbed out and out , to the gulf ; and the Glen lay before me , beautiful and green , with a rainbow spanning Rainbow Valley -- a rainbow of such splendid colour that it dazzled me -- and I woke .
Rilla -- Rilla Blythe -- the tide has turned . ''
`` I wish I could believe it , '' sighed Rilla .
`` Sooth was my prophecy of fear Believe it when it augurs cheer , '' quoted Gertrude , almost gaily .
`` I tell you I have no doubt . ''
Yet , in spite of the great Italian victory at the Piave that came a few days later , she had doubt many a time in the hard month that followed ; and when in mid-July the Germans crossed the Marne again despair came sickeningly .
It was idle , they all felt , to hope that the miracle of the Marne would be repeated .
But it was : again , as in 1914 , the tide turned at the Marne .
The French and the American troops struck their sudden smashing blow on the exposed flank of the enemy and , with the almost inconceivable rapidity of a dream , the whole aspect of the war changed .
`` The Allies have won two tremendous victories , '' said the doctor on 20th July .
`` It is the beginning of the end -- I feel it -- I feel it , '' said Mrs. Blythe .
`` Thank God , '' said Susan , folding her trembling old hands , Then she added , under her breath , `` but it wo n't bring our boys back . ''
Nevertheless she went out and ran up the flag , for the first time since the fall of Jerusalem .
As it caught the breeze and swelled gallantly out above her , Susan lifted her hand and saluted it , as she had seen Shirley do .
`` We 've all given something to keep you flying , '' she said .
`` Four hundred thousand of our boys gone overseas -- fifty thousand of them killed .
But -- you are worth it ! ''
The wind whipped her grey hair about her face and the gingham apron that shrouded her from head to foot was cut on lines of economy , not of grace ; yet , somehow , just then Susan made an imposing figure .
She was one of the women -- courageous , unquailing , patient , heroic -- who had made victory possible .
In her , they all saluted the symbol for which their dearest had fought .
Something of this was in the doctor 's mind as he watched her from the door .
`` Susan , '' he said , when she turned to come in , `` from first to last of this business you have been a brick ! ''
CHAPTER XXXI MRS. MATILDA PITTMAN Rilla and Jims were standing on the rear platform of their car when the train stopped at the little Millward siding .
The August evening was so hot and close that the crowded cars were stifling .
Nobody ever knew just why trains stopped at Millward siding .
Nobody was ever known to get off there or get on .
There was only one house nearer to it than four miles , and it was surrounded by acres of blueberry barrens and scrub spruce-trees .
Rilla was on her way into Charlottetown to spend the night with a friend and the next day in Red Cross shopping ; she had taken Jims with her , partly because she did not want Susan or her mother to be bothered with his care , partly because of a hungry desire in her heart to have as much of him as she could before she might have to give him up forever .
James Anderson had written to her not long before this ; he was wounded and in the hospital ; he would not be able to go back to the front and as soon as he was able he would be coming home for Jims .
Rilla was heavy-hearted over this , and worried also .
She loved Jims dearly and would feel deeply giving him up in any case ; but if Jim Anderson were a different sort of a man , with a proper home for the child , it would not be so bad .
But to give Jims up to a roving , shiftless , irresponsible father , however kind and good-hearted he might be -- and she knew Jim Anderson was kind and good-hearted enough -- was a bitter prospect to Rilla .
It was not even likely Anderson would stay in the Glen ; he had no ties there now ; he might even go back to England .
She might never see her dear , sunshiny , carefully brought-up little Jims again .
With such a father what might his fate be ?
Rilla meant to beg Jim Anderson to leave him with her , but , from his letter , she had not much hope that he would .
`` If he would only stay in the Glen , where I could keep an eye on Jims and have him often with me I would n't feel so worried over it , '' she reflected .
`` But I feel sure he wo n't -- and Jims will never have any chance .
And he is such a bright little chap -- he has ambition , wherever he got it -- and he is n't lazy .
But his father will never have a cent to give him any education or start in life .
Jims , my little war-baby , whatever is going to become of you ? ''
Jims was not in the least concerned over what was to become of him .
He was gleefully watching the antics of a striped chipmunk that was frisking over the roof of the little siding .
As the train pulled out Jims leaned eagerly forward for a last look at Chippy , pulling his hand from Rilla 's .
Rilla was so engrossed in wondering what was to become of Jims in the future that she forgot to take notice of what was happening to him in the present .
What did happen was that Jims lost his balance , shot headlong down the steps , hurtled across the little siding platform , and landed in a clump of bracken fern on the other side .
Rilla shrieked and lost her head .
She sprang down the steps and jumped off the train .
Fortunately , the train was still going at a comparatively slow speed ; fortunately also , Rilla retained enough sense to jump the way it was going ; nevertheless , she fell and sprawled helplessly down the embankment , landing in a ditch full of a rank growth of golden-rod and fireweed .
Nobody had seen what had happened and the train whisked briskly away round a curve in the barrens .
Rilla picked herself up , dizzy but unhurt , scrambled out of the ditch , and flew wildly across the platform , expecting to find Jims dead or broken in pieces .
But Jims , except for a few bruises , and a big fright , was quite uninjured .
He was so badly scared that he did n't even cry , but Rilla , when she found that he was safe and sound , burst into tears and sobbed wildly .
`` Nasty old twain , '' remarked Jims in disgust .
`` And nasty old God , '' he added , with a scowl at the heavens .
A laugh broke into Rilla 's sobbing , producing something very like what her father would have called hysterics .
But she caught herself up before the hysteria could conquer her .
`` Rilla Blythe , I 'm ashamed of you .
Pull yourself together immediately .
Jims , you should n't have said anything like that . ''
`` God frew me off the twain , '' declared Jims defiantly .
`` Somebody frew me ; you did n't frow me ; so it was God . ''
`` No , it was n't .
You fell because you let go of my hand and bent too far forward .
I told you not to do that .
So that it was your own fault . ''
Jims looked to see if she meant it ; then glanced up at the sky again .
`` Excuse me , then , God , '' he remarked airily .
Rilla scanned the sky also ; she did not like its appearance ; a heavy thundercloud was appearing in the northwest .
What in the world was to be done ?
There was no other train that night , since the nine o'clock special ran only on Saturdays .
Would it be possible for them to reach Hannah Brewster 's house , two miles away , before the storm broke ?
Rilla thought she could do it alone easily enough , but with Jims it was another matter .
Were his little legs good for it ?
`` We 've got to try it , '' said Rilla desperately .
`` We might stay in the siding until the thunderstorm is over ; but it may keep on raining all night and anyway it will be pitch dark .
If we can get to Hannah 's she will keep us all night . ''
Hannah Brewster , when she had been Hannah Crawford , had lived in the Glen and gone to school with Rilla .
They had been good friends then , though Hannah had been three years the older .
She had married very young and had gone to live in Millward .
What with hard work and babies and a ne'er - do-well husband , her life had not been an easy one , and Hannah seldom revisited her old home .
Rilla had visited her once soon after her marriage , but had not seen her or even heard of her for years ; she knew , however , that she and Jims would find welcome and harbourage in any house where rosy-faced , open-hearted , generous Hannah lived .
For the first mile they got on very well but the second one was harder .
The road , seldom used , was rough and deep-rutted .
Jims grew so tired that Rilla had to carry him for the last quarter .
She reached the Brewster house , almost exhausted , and dropped Jims on the walk with a sigh of thankfulness .
The sky was black with clouds ; the first heavy drops were beginning to fall ; and the rumble of thunder was growing very loud .
Then she made an unpleasant discovery .
The blinds were all down and the doors locked .
Evidently the Brewsters were not at home .
Rilla ran to the little barn .
It , too , was locked .
No other refuge presented itself .
The bare whitewashed little house had not even a veranda or porch .
It was almost dark now and her plight seemed desperate .
`` I 'm going to get in if I have to break a window , '' said Rilla resolutely .
`` Hannah would want me to do that .
She 'd never get over it if she heard I came to her house for refuge in a thunderstorm and could n't get in . ''
Luckily she did not have to go to the length of actual housebreaking .
The kitchen window went up quite easily .
Rilla lifted Jims in and scrambled through herself , just as the storm broke in good earnest .
`` Oh , see all the little pieces of thunder , '' cried Jims in delight , as the hail danced in after them .
Rilla shut the window and with some difficulty found and lighted a lamp .
They were in a very snug little kitchen .
Opening off it on one side was a trim , nicely furnished parlour , and on the other a pantry , which proved to be well stocked .
`` I 'm going to make myself at home , '' said Rilla .
`` I know that is just what Hannah would want me to do .
I 'll get a little snack for Jims and me , and then if the rain continues and nobody comes home I 'll just go upstairs to the spare room and go to bed .
There is nothing like acting sensibly in an emergency .
If I had not been a goose when I saw Jims fall off the train I 'd have rushed back into the car and got some one to stop it .
Then I would n't have been in this scrape .
Since I am in it I 'll make the best of it .
`` This house , '' she added , looking around , `` is fixed up much nicer than when I was here before .
Of course Hannah and Ted were just beginning housekeeping then .
But somehow I 've had the idea that Ted has n't been very prosperous .
He must have done better than I 've been led to believe , when they can afford furniture like this .
I 'm awfully glad for Hannah 's sake . ''
The thunderstorm passed , but the rain continued to fall heavily .
At eleven o'clock Rilla decided that nobody was coming home .
Jims had fallen asleep on the sofa ; she carried him up to the spare room and put him to bed .
Then she undressed , put on a nightgown she found in the washstand drawer , and scrambled sleepily in between very nice lavender-scented sheets .
She was so tired , after her adventures and exertions , that not even the oddity of her situation could keep her awake ; she was sound asleep in a few minutes .
Rilla slept until eight o'clock the next morning and then wakened with startling suddenness .
Somebody was saying in a harsh , gruff voice , `` Here , you two , wake up .
I want to know what this means . ''
Rilla did wake up , promptly and effectually .
She had never in all her life wakened up so thoroughly before .
Standing in the room were three people , one of them a man , who were absolute strangers to her .
The man was a big fellow with a bushy black beard and an angry scowl .
Beside him was a woman -- a tall , thin , angular person , with violently red hair and an indescribable hat .
She looked even crosser and more amazed than the man , if that were possible .
In the background was another woman -- a tiny old lady who must have been at least eighty .
She was , in spite of her tinyness , a very striking-looking personage ; she was dressed in unrelieved black , had snow-white hair , a dead-white face , and snapping , vivid , coal-black eyes .
She looked as amazed as the other two , but Rilla realized that she did n't look cross .
Rilla also was realizing that something was wrong -- fearfully wrong .
Then the man said , more gruffly than ever , `` Come now .
Who are you and what business have you here ? ''
Rilla raised herself on one elbow , looking and feeling hopelessly bewildered and foolish .
She heard the old black-and-white lady in the background chuckle to herself .
`` She must be real , '' Rilla thought .
`` I ca n't be dreaming her . ''
Aloud she gasped , `` Is n't this Theodore Brewster 's place ? ''
`` No , '' said the big woman , speaking for the first time , `` this place belongs to us .
We bought it from the Brewsters last fall .
They moved to Greenvale .
Our name is Chapley . ''
Poor Rilla fell back on her pillow , quite overcome .
`` I beg your pardon , '' she said .
`` I -- I -- thought the Brewsters lived here .
Mrs. Brewster is a friend of mine .
I am Rilla Blythe -- Dr. Blythe 's daughter from Glen St. Mary .
I -- I was going to town with my -- my -- this little boy -- and he fell off the train -- and I jumped off after him -- and nobody knew of it .
I knew we could n't get home last night and a storm was coming up -- so we came here and when we found nobody at home -- we -- we -- just got in through the window and -- and -- made ourselves at home . ''
`` So it seems , '' said the woman sarcastically .
`` A likely story , '' said the man .
`` We were n't born yesterday , '' added the woman .
Madam Black-and-White did n't say anything ; but when the other two made their pretty speeches she doubled up in a silent convulsion of mirth , shaking her head from side to side and beating the air with her hands .
Rilla , stung by the disagreeable attitude of the Chapleys , regained her self-possession and lost her temper .
She sat up in bed and said in her haughtiest voice , `` I do not know when you were born , or where , but it must have been somewhere where very peculiar manners were taught .
If you will have the decency to leave my room -- er -- this room -- until I can get up and dress I shall not transgress upon your hospitality '' -- Rilla was killingly sarcastic -- `` any longer .
And I shall pay you amply for the food we have eaten and the night 's lodging I have taken . ''
The black-and-white apparition went through the motion of clapping her hands , but not a sound did she make .
Perhaps Mr. Chapley was cowed by Rilla 's tone -- or perhaps he was appeased at the prospect of payment ; at all events , he spoke more civilly .
`` Well , that 's fair .
If you pay up it 's all right . ''
`` She shall do no such thing as pay you , '' said Madam Black-and-White in a surprisingly clear , resolute , authoritative tone of voice .
`` If you have n't got any shame for yourself , Robert Chapley , you 've got a mother-in-law who can be ashamed for you .
No strangers shall be charged for room and lodging in any house where Mrs. Matilda Pitman lives .
Remember that , though I may have come down in the world , I have n't quite forgot all decency for all that .
I knew you was a skinflint when Amelia married you , and you 've made her as bad as yourself .
But Mrs. Matilda Pitman has been boss for a long time , and Mrs. Matilda Pitman will remain boss .
Here you , Robert Chapley , take yourself out of here and let that girl get dressed .
And you , Amelia , go downstairs and cook a breakfast for her . ''
Never , in all her life , had Rilla seen anything like the abject meekness with which those two big people obeyed that mite .
They went without word or look of protest .
As the door closed behind them Mrs. Matilda Pitman laughed silently , and rocked from side to side in her merriment .
`` Ai n't it funny ? ''
she said .
`` I mostly lets them run the length of their tether , but sometimes I has to pull them up , and then I does it with a jerk .
They do n't dast aggravate me , because I 've got considerable hard cash , and they 're afraid I wo n't leave it all to them .
Neither I will .
I 'll leave 'em some , but some I wo n't , just to vex 'em .
I have n't made up my mind where I will leave it but I 'll have to , soon , for at eighty a body is living on borrowed time .
Now , you can take your time about dressing , my dear , and I 'll go down and keep them mean scallawags in order .
That 's a handsome child you have there .
Is he your brother ? ''
`` No , he 's a little war-baby I 've been taking care of , because his mother died and his father was overseas , '' answered Rilla in a subdued tone .
`` War-baby !
Humph !
Well , I 'd better skin out before he wakes up or he 'll likely start crying .
Children do n't like me -- never did .
I ca n't recollect any youngster ever coming near me of its own accord .
Never had any of my own .
Amelia was my step-daughter .
Well , it 's saved me a world of bother .
If kids do n't like me I do n't like them , so that 's an even score .
But that certainly is a handsome child . ''
Jims chose this moment for waking up .
He opened his big brown eyes and looked at Mrs. Matilda Pitman unblinkingly .
Then he sat up , dimpled deliciously , pointed to her and said solemnly to Rilla , `` Pwitty lady , Willa , pwitty lady . ''
Mrs. Matilda Pitman smiled .
Even eighty-odd is sometimes vulnerable in vanity .
`` I 've heard that children and fools tell the truth , '' she said .
`` I was used to compliments when I was young -- but they 're scarcer when you get as far along as I am .
I have n't had one for years .
It tastes good .
I s ` pose now , you monkey , you would n't give me a kiss . ''
Then Jims did a quite surprising thing .
He was not a demonstrative youngster and was chary with kisses even to the Ingleside people .
But without a word he stood up in bed , his plump little body encased only in his undershirt , ran to the footboard , flung his arms about Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's neck , and gave her a bear hug , accompanied by three or four hearty , ungrudging smacks .
`` Jims , '' protested Rilla , aghast at this liberty .
`` You leave him be , '' ordered Mrs. Matilda Pitman , setting her bonnet straight .
`` Laws I like to see some one that is n't skeered of me .
Everybody is -- you are , though you 're trying to hide it .
And why ?
Of course Robert and Amelia are because I make 'em skeered on purpose .
But folks always are -- no matter how civil I be to them .
Are you going to keep this child ? ''
`` I 'm afraid not .
His father is coming home before long . ''
`` Is he any good -- the father , I mean ? ''
`` Well -- he 's kind and nice -- but he 's poor -- and I 'm afraid he always will be , '' faltered Rilla .
`` I see -- shiftless -- ca n't make or keep .
Well , I 'll see -- I 'll see .
I have an idea .
It 's a good idea , and besides it will make Robert and Amelia squirm .
That 's its main merit in my eyes , though I like that child , mind you , because he ai n't skeered of me .
He 's worth some bother .
Now , you get dressed , as I said before , and come down when you 're good and ready . ''
Rilla was stiff and sore after her tumble and walk of the night before but she was not long in dressing herself and Jims .
When she went down to the kitchen she found a smoking hot breakfast on the table .
Mr. Chapley was nowhere in sight and Mrs. Chapley was cutting bread with a sulky air .
Mrs. Matilda Pitman was sitting in an armchair , knitting a grey army sock .
She still wore her bonnet and her triumphant expression .
`` Set right in , dears , and make a good breakfast , '' she said .
`` I am not hungry , '' said Rilla almost pleadingly .
`` I do n't think I can eat anything .
And it is time I was starting for the station .
The morning train will soon be along .
Please excuse me and let us go -- I 'll take a piece of bread and butter for Jims . ''
Mrs. Matilda Pitman shook a knitting-needle playfully at Rilla .
`` Sit down and take your breakfast , '' she said .
`` Mrs. Matilda Pitman commands you .
Everybody obeys Mrs. Matilda Pitman -- even Robert and Amelia .
You must obey her too . ''
Rilla did obey her .
She sat down and , such was the influence of Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's mesmeric eye , she ate a tolerable breakfast .
The obedient Amelia never spoke ; Mrs. Matilda Pitman did not speak either ; but she knitted furiously and chuckled .
When Rilla had finished , Mrs. Matilda Pitman rolled up her sock .
`` Now you can go if you want to , '' she said , `` but you do n't have to go .
You can stay here as long as you want to and I 'll make Amelia cook your meals for you . ''
The independent Miss Blythe , whom a certain clique of Junior Red Cross girls accused of being domineering and `` bossy , '' was thoroughly cowed .
`` Thank you , '' she said meekly , `` but we must really go . ''
`` Well , then , '' said Mrs. Matilda Pitman , throwing open the door , `` your conveyance is ready for you .
I told Robert he must hitch up and drive you to the station .
I enjoy making Robert do things .
It 's almost the only sport I have left .
I 'm over eighty and most things have lost their flavour except bossing Robert . ''
Robert sat before the door on the front seat of a trim , double-seated , rubber-tired buggy .
He must have heard every word his mother-in-law said but he gave no sign .
`` I do wish , '' said Rilla , plucking up what little spirit she had left , `` that you would let me -- oh -- ah -- '' then she quailed again before Mrs. Matilda Pitman 's eye -- `` recompense you for -- for -- '' `` Mrs. Matilda Pitman said before -- and meant it -- that she does n't take pay for entertaining strangers , nor let other people where she lives do it , much as their natural meanness would like to do it .
You go along to town and do n't forget to call the next time you come this way .
Do n't be scared .
Not that you are scared of much , I reckon , considering the way you sassed Robert back this morning .
I like your spunk .
Most girls nowadays are such timid , skeery creeturs .
When I was a girl I was n't afraid of nothing nor nobody .
Mind you take good care of that boy .
He ai n't any common child .
And make Robert drive round all the puddles in the road .
I wo n't have that new buggy splashed . ''
As they drove away Jims threw kisses at Mrs. Matilda Pitman as long as he could see her , and Mrs. Matilda Pitman waved her sock back at him .
Robert spoke no word , either good or bad , all the way to the station , but he remembered the puddles .
When Rilla got out at the siding she thanked him courteously .
The only response she got was a grunt as Robert turned his horse and started for home .
`` Well '' -- Rilla drew a long breath -- `` I must try to get back into Rilla Blythe again .
I 've been somebody else these past few hours -- I do n't know just who -- some creation of that extraordinary old person 's .
I believe she hypnotized me .
What an adventure this will be to write the boys . ''
And then she sighed .
Bitter remembrance came that there were only Jerry , Ken , Carl and Shirley to write it to now .
Jem -- who would have appreciated Mrs. Matilda Pitman keenly -- where was Jem ?
CHAPTER XXXII WORD FROM JEM 4th August 1918 `` It is four years tonight since the dance at the lighthouse -- four years of war .
It seems like three times four .
I was fifteen then .
I am nineteen now .
I expected that these past four years would be the most delightful years of my life and they have been years of war -- years of fear and grief and worry -- but I humbly hope , of a little growth in strength and character as well .
`` Today I was going through the hall and I heard mother saying something to father about me .
I did n't mean to listen -- I could n't help hearing her as I went along the hall and upstairs -- so perhaps that is why I heard what listeners are said never to hear -- something good of myself .
And because it was mother who said it I 'm going to write it here in my journal , for my comforting when days of discouragement come upon me , in which I feel that I am vain and selfish and weak and that there is no good thing in me . ''
` Rilla has developed in a wonderful fashion these past four years .
She used to be such an irresponsible young creature .
She has changed into a capable , womanly girl and she is such a comfort to me .
Nan and Di have grown a little away from me -- they have been so little at home -- but Rilla has grown closer and closer to me .
We are chums .
I do n't see how I could have got through these terrible years without her , Gilbert . '
`` There , that is just what mother said -- and I feel glad -- and sorry -- and proud -- and humble !
It 's beautiful to have my mother think that about me -- but I do n't deserve it quite .
I 'm not as good and strong as all that .
There are heaps of times when I have felt cross and impatient and woeful and despairing .
It is mother and Susan who have been this family 's backbone .
But I have helped a little , I believe , and I am so glad and thankful .
`` The war news has been good right along .
The French and Americans are pushing the Germans back and back and back .
Sometimes I am afraid it is too good to last -- after nearly four years of disasters one has a feeling that this constant success is unbelievable .
We do n't rejoice noisily over it .
Susan keeps the flag up but we go softly .
The price paid has been too high for jubilation .
We are just thankful that it has not been paid in vain .
`` No word has come from Jem .
We hope -- because we dare not do anything else .
But there are hours when we all feel -- though we never say so -- that such hoping is foolishness .
These hours come more and more frequently as the weeks go by .
And we may never know .
That is the most terrible thought of all .
I wonder how Faith is bearing it .
To judge from her letters she has never for a moment given up hope , but she must have had her dark hours of doubt like the rest of us . ''
20th August 1918 `` The Canadians have been in action again and Mr. Meredith had a cable today saying that Carl had been slightly wounded and is in the hospital .
It did not say where the wound was , which is unusual , and we all feel worried .
There is news of a fresh victory every day now . ''
30th August 1918 `` The Merediths had a letter from Carl today .
His wound was `` only a slight one '' -- but it was in his right eye and the sight is gone for ever ! ''
` One eye is enough to watch bugs with , ' Carl writes cheerfully .
And we know it might have been oh so much worse !
If it had been both eyes !
But I cried all the afternoon after I saw Carl 's letter .
Those beautiful , fearless blue eyes of his !
`` There is one comfort -- he will not have to go back to the front .
He is coming home as soon as he is out of the hospital -- the first of our boys to return .
When will the others come ?
`` And there is one who will never come .
At least we will not see him if he does .
But , oh , I think he will be there -- when our Canadian soldiers return there will be a shadow army with them -- the army of the fallen .
We will not see them -- but they will be there ! ''
1st September 1918 `` Mother and I went into Charlottetown yesterday to see the moving picture , `` Hearts of the World . ''
I made an awful goose of myself -- father will never stop teasing me about it for the rest of my life .
But it all seemed so horribly real -- and I was so intensely interested that I forgot everything but the scenes I saw enacted before my eyes .
And then , quite near the last came a terribly exciting one .
The heroine was struggling with a horrible German soldier who was trying to drag her away .
I knew she had a knife -- I had seen her hide it , to have it in readiness -- and I could n't understand why she did n't produce it and finish the brute .
I thought she must have forgotten it , and just at the tensest moment of the scene I lost my head altogether .
I just stood right up on my feet in that crowded house and shrieked at the top of my voice -- ` The knife is in your stocking -- the knife is in your stocking ! '
`` I created a sensation !
`` The funny part was , that just as I said it , the girl did snatch out the knife and stab the soldier with it !
`` Everybody in the house laughed .
I came to my senses and fell back in my seat , overcome with mortification .
Mother was shaking with laughter .
I could have shaken her .
Why had n't she pulled me down and choked me before I had made such an idiot of myself .
She protests that there was n't time .
`` Fortunately the house was dark , and I do n't believe there was anybody there who knew me .
And I thought I was becoming sensible and self-controlled and womanly !
It is plain I have some distance to go yet before I attain that devoutly desired consummation . ''
20th September 1918 `` In the east Bulgaria has asked for peace , and in the west the British have smashed the Hindenburg line ; and right here in Glen St. Mary little Bruce Meredith has done something that I think wonderful -- wonderful because of the love behind it .
Mrs. Meredith was here tonight and told us about it -- and mother and I cried , and Susan got up and clattered the things about the stove .
`` Bruce always loved Jem very devotedly , and the child has never forgotten him in all these years .
He has been as faithful in his way as Dog Monday was in his .
We have always told him that Jem would come back .
But it seems that he was in Carter Flagg 's store last night and he heard his Uncle Norman flatly declaring that Jem Blythe would never come back and that the Ingleside folk might as well give up hoping he would .
Bruce went home and cried himself to sleep .
This morning his mother saw him going out of the yard , with a very sorrowful and determined look , carrying his pet kitten .
She did n't think much more about it until later on he came in , with the most tragic little face , and told her , his little body shaking with sobs , that he had drowned Stripey . ''
` Why did you do that ? '
Mrs. Meredith exclaimed . ''
` To bring Jem back , ' sobbed Bruce . '
I thought if I sacrificed Stripey God would send Jem back .
So I drownded him -- and , oh mother , it was awful hard -- but surely God will send Jem back now , 'cause Stripey was the dearest thing I had .
I just told God I would give Him Stripey if He would send Jem back .
And He will , wo n't He , mother ? '
`` Mrs. Meredith did n't know what to say to the poor child .
She just could not tell him that perhaps his sacrifice would n't bring Jem back -- that God did n't work that way .
She told him that he must n't expect it right away -- that perhaps it would be quite a long time yet before Jem came back .
`` But Bruce said , ` It ought n't to take longer 'n a week , mother .
Oh , mother , Stripey was such a nice little cat .
He purred so pretty .
Do n't you think God ought to like him enough to let us have Jem ? ''
`` Mr. Meredith is worried about the effect on Bruce 's faith in God , and Mrs. Meredith is worried about the effect on Bruce himself if his hope is n't fulfilled .
And I feel as if I must cry every time I think of it .
It was so splendid -- and sad -- and beautiful .
The dear devoted little fellow !
He worshipped that kitten .
And if it all goes for nothing -- as so many sacrifices seem to go for nothing -- he will be brokenhearted , for he is n't old enough to understand that God does n't answer our prayers just as we hope -- and does n't make bargains with us when we yield something we love up to Him . ''
24th September 1918 `` I have been kneeling at my window in the moonshine for a long time , just thanking God over and over again .
The joy of last night and today has been so great that it seemed half pain -- as if our hearts were n't big enough to hold it .
`` Last night I was sitting here in my room at eleven o'clock writing a letter to Shirley .
Every one else was in bed , except father , who was out .
I heard the telephone ring and I ran out to the hall to answer it , before it should waken mother .
It was long-distance calling , and when I answered it said ` This is the telegraph Company 's office in Charlottetown .
There is an overseas cable for Dr. Blythe . '
`` I thought of Shirley -- my heart stood still -- and then I heard him saying , ` It 's from Holland . '
`` The message was , ` Just arrived .
Escaped from Germany .
Quite well .
Writing .
James Blythe . '
`` I did n't faint or fall or scream .
I did n't feel glad or surprised .
I did n't feel anything .
I felt numb , just as I did when I heard Walter had enlisted .
I hung up the receiver and turned round .
Mother was standing in her doorway .
She wore her old rose kimono , and her hair was hanging down her back in a long thick braid , and her eyes were shining .
She looked just like a young girl . ''
` There is word from Jem ? '
she said .
`` How did she know ?
I had n't said a word at the phone except ` Yes -- yes -- yes . '
She says she does n't know how she knew , but she did know .
She was awake and she heard the ring and she knew that there was word from Jem . ''
` He 's alive -- he 's well -- he 's in Holland , ' I said .
`` Mother came out into the hall and said , ' I must get your father on the ` phone and tell him .
He is in the Upper Glen . '
`` She was very calm and quiet -- not a bit like I would have expected her to be .
But then I was n't either .
I went and woke up Gertrude and Susan and told them .
Susan said ` Thank God , ' firstly , and secondly she said ` Did I not tell you Dog Monday knew ? '
and thirdly , ` I 'll go down and make a cup of tea ' -- and she stalked down in her nightdress to make it .
She did make it -- and made mother and Gertrude drink it -- but I went back to my room and shut my door and locked it , and I knelt by my window and cried -- just as Gertrude did when her great news came .
`` I think I know at last exactly what I shall feel like on the resurrection morning . ''
4th October 1918 `` Today Jem 's letter came .
It has been in the house only six hours and it is almost read to pieces .
The post-mistress told everybody in the Glen it had come , and everybody came up to hear the news .
`` Jem was badly wounded in the thigh -- and he was picked up and taken to prison , so delirious with fever that he did n't know what was happening to him or where he was .
It was weeks before he came to his senses and was able to write .
Then he did write -- but it never came .
He was n't treated at all badly at his camp -- only the food was poor .
He had nothing to eat but a little black bread and boiled turnips and now and then a little soup with black peas in it .
And we sat down every one of those days to three good square luxurious meals !
He wrote us as often as he could but he was afraid we were not getting his letters because no reply came .
As soon as he was strong enough he tried to escape , but was caught and brought back ; a month later he and a comrade made another attempt and succeeded in reaching Holland .
`` Jem ca n't come home right away .
He is n't quite so well as his cable said , for his wound has not healed properly and he has to go into a hospital in England for further treatment .
But he says he will be all right eventually , and we know he is safe and will be back home sometime , and oh , the difference it makes in everything !
`` I had a letter from Jim Anderson today , too .
He has married an English girl , got his discharge , and is coming right home to Canada with his bride .
I do n't know whether to be glad or sorry .
It will depend on what kind of a woman she is .
I had a second letter also of a somewhat mysterious tenor .
It is from a Charlottetown lawyer , asking me to go in to see him at my earliest convenience in regard to a certain matter connected with the estate of the ` late Mrs. Matilda Pitman . '
`` I read a notice of Mrs. Pitman 's death -- from heart failure -- in the Enterprise a few weeks ago .
I wonder if this summons has anything to do with Jims . ''
5th October 1918 `` I went into town this morning and had an interview with Mrs. Pitman 's lawyer -- a little thin , wispy man , who spoke of his late client with such a profound respect that it is evident that he as was much under her thumb as Robert and Amelia were .
He drew up a new will for her a short time before her death .
She was worth thirty thousand dollars , the bulk of which was left to Amelia Chapley .
But she left five thousand to me in trust for Jims .
The interest is to be used as I see fit for his education , and the principal is to be paid over to him on his twentieth birthday .
Certainly Jims was born lucky .
I saved him from slow extinction at the hands of Mrs. Conover -- Mary Vance saved him from death by diptheritic croup -- his star saved him when he fell off the train .
And he tumbled not only into a clump of bracken , but right into this nice little legacy .
`` Evidently , as Mrs. Matilda Pitman said , and as I have always believed , he is no common child and he has no common destiny in store for him .
`` At all events he is provided for , and in such a fashion that Jim Anderson ca n't squander his inheritance if he wanted to .
Now , if the new English stepmother is only a good sort I shall feel quite easy about the future of my war-baby .
`` I wonder what Robert and Amelia think of it .
I fancy they will nail down their windows when they leave home after this ! ''
CHAPTER XXXIII VICTORY !
`` A day ` of chilling winds and gloomy skies , ' '' Rilla quoted one Sunday afternoon -- the sixth of October to be exact .
It was so cold that they had lighted a fire in the living-room and the merry little flames were doing their best to counteract the outside dourness .
`` It 's more like November than October -- November is such an ugly month . ''
Cousin Sophia was there , having again forgiven Susan , and Mrs. Martin Clow , who was not visiting on Sunday but had dropped in to borrow Susan 's cure for rheumatism -- that being cheaper than getting one from the doctor .
`` I 'm afeared we 're going to have an airly winter , '' foreboded Cousin Sophia .
`` The muskrats are building awful big houses round the pond , and that 's a sign that never fails .
Dear me , how that child has grown ! ''
Cousin Sophia sighed again , as if it were an unhappy circumstance that a child should grow .
`` When do you expect his father ? ''
`` Next week , '' said Rilla .
`` Well , I hope the stepmother wo n't abuse the pore child , '' sighed Cousin Sophia , `` but I have my doubts -- I have my doubts .
Anyhow , he 'll be sure to feel the difference between his usage here and what he 'll get anywhere else .
You 've spoiled him so , Rilla , waiting on him hand and foot the way you 've always done . ''
Rilla smiled and pressed her cheek to Jims ' curls .
She knew sweet-tempered , sunny , little Jims was not spoiled .
Nevertheless her heart was anxious behind her smile .
She , too , thought much about the new Mrs. Anderson and wondered uneasily what she would be like .
`` I ca n't give Jims up to a woman who wo n't love him , '' she thought rebelliously .
`` I b ` lieve it 's going to rain , '' said Cousin Sophia .
`` We have had an awful lot of rain this fall already .
It 's going to make it awful hard for people to get their roots in .
It was n't so in my young days .
We gin ` rally had beautiful Octobers then .
But the seasons is altogether different now from what they used to be . ''
Clear across Cousin Sophia 's doleful voice cut the telephone bell .
Gertrude Oliver answered it .
`` Yes -- what ?
What ?
Is it true -- is it official ?
Thank you -- thank you . ''
Gertrude turned and faced the room dramatically , her dark eyes flashing , her dark face flushed with feeling .
All at once the sun broke through the thick clouds and poured through the big crimson maple outside the window .
Its reflected glow enveloped her in a weird immaterial flame .
She looked like a priestess performing some mystic , splendid rite .
`` Germany and Austria are suing for peace , '' she said .
Rilla went crazy for a few minutes .
She sprang up and danced around the room , clapping her hands , laughing , crying .
`` Sit down , child , '' said Mrs. Clow , who never got excited over anything , and so had missed a tremendous amount of trouble and delight in her journey through life .
`` Oh , '' cried Rilla , `` I have walked the floor for hours in despair and anxiety in these past four years .
Now let me walk in joy .
It was worth living long dreary years for this minute , and it would be worth living them again just to look back to it .
Susan , let 's run up the flag -- and we must phone the news to every one in the Glen . ''
`` Can we have as much sugar as we want to now ? ''
asked Jims eagerly .
It was a never-to-be-forgotten afternoon .
As the news spread excited people ran about the village and dashed up to Ingleside .
The Merediths came over and stayed to supper and everybody talked and nobody listened .
Cousin Sophia tried to protest that Germany and Austria were not to be trusted and it was all part of a plot , but nobody paid the least attention to her .
`` This Sunday makes up for that one in March , '' said Susan .
`` I wonder , '' said Gertrude dreamily , apart to Rilla , `` if things wo n't seem rather flat and insipid when peace really comes .
After being fed for four years on horrors and fears , terrible reverses , amazing victories , wo n't anything less be tame and uninteresting ?
How strange -- and blessed -- and dull it will be not to dread the coming of the mail every day . ''
`` We must dread it for a little while yet , I suppose , '' said Rilla .
`` Peace wo n't come -- ca n't come -- for some weeks yet .
And in those weeks dreadful things may happen .
My excitement is over .
We have won the victory -- but oh , what a price we have paid ! ''
`` Not too high a price for freedom , '' said Gertrude softly .
`` Do you think it was , Rilla ? ''
`` No , '' said Rilla , under her breath .
She was seeing a little white cross on a battlefield of France .
`` No -- not if those of us who live will show ourselves worthy of it -- if we ` keep faith . ' ''
`` We will keep faith , '' said Gertrude .
She rose suddenly .
A silence fell around the table , and in the silence Gertrude repeated Walter 's famous poem `` The Piper . ''
When she finished Mr. Meredith stood up and held up his glass .
`` Let us drink , '' he said , `` to the silent army -- to the boys who followed when the Piper summoned .
` For our tomorrow they gave their today ' -- theirs is the victory ! ''
CHAPTER XXXIV MR. HYDE GOES TO HIS OWN PLACE AND SUSAN TAKES A HONEYMOON Early in November Jims left Ingleside .
Rilla saw him go with many tears but a heart free from boding .
Mrs. Jim Anderson , Number Two , was such a nice little woman that one was rather inclined to wonder at the luck which bestowed her on Jim .
She was rosy-faced and blue-eyed and wholesome , with the roundness and trigness of a geranium leaf .
Rilla saw at first glance that she was to be trusted with Jims .
`` I 'm fond of children , miss , '' she said heartily .
`` I 'm used to them -- I 've left six little brothers and sisters behind me .
Jims is a dear child and I must say you 've done wonders in bringing him up so healthy and handsome .
I 'll be as good to him as if he was my own , miss .
And I 'll make Jim toe the line all right .
He 's a good worker -- all he needs is some one to keep him at it , and to take charge of his money .
We 've rented a little farm just out of the village , and we 're going to settle down there .
Jim wanted to stay in England but I says ` No . '
I hankered to try a new country and I 've always thought Canada would suit me . ''
`` I 'm so glad you are going to live near us .
You 'll let Jims come here often , wo n't you ?
I love him dearly . ''
`` No doubt you do , miss , for a lovabler child I never did see .
We understand , Jim and me , what you 've done for him , and you wo n't find us ungrateful .
He can come here whenever you want him and I 'll always be glad of any advice from you about his bringing up .
He is more your baby than anyone else 's I should say , and I 'll see that you get your fair share of him , miss . ''
So Jims went away -- with the soup tureen , though not in it .
Then the news of the Armistice came , and even Glen St. Mary went mad .
That night the village had a bonfire , and burned the Kaiser in effigy .
The fishing village boys turned out and burned all the sandhills off in one grand glorious conflagration that extended for seven miles .
Up at Ingleside Rilla ran laughing to her room .
`` Now I 'm going to do a most unladylike and inexcusable thing , '' she said , as she pulled her green velvet hat out of its box .
`` I 'm going to kick this hat about the room until it is without form and void ; and I shall never as long as I live wear anything of that shade of green again . ''
`` You 've certainly kept your vow pluckily , '' laughed Miss Oliver .
`` It was n't pluck -- it was sheer obstinacy -- I 'm rather ashamed of it , '' said Rilla , kicking joyously .
`` I wanted to show mother .
It 's mean to want to show your own mother -- most unfilial conduct !
But I have shown her .
And I 've shown myself a few things !
Oh , Miss Oliver , just for one moment I 'm really feeling quite young again -- young and frivolous and silly .
Did I ever say November was an ugly month ?
Why it 's the most beautiful month in the whole year .
Listen to the bells ringing in Rainbow Valley !
I never heard them so clearly .
They 're ringing for peace -- and new happiness -- and all the dear , sweet , sane , homey things that we can have again now , Miss Oliver .
Not that I am sane just now -- I do n't pretend to be .
The whole world is having a little crazy spell today .
Soon we 'll sober down -- and ` keep faith ' -- and begin to build up our new world .
But just for today let 's be mad and glad . ''
Susan came in from the outdoor sunlight looking supremely satisfied .
`` Mr. Hyde is gone , '' she announced .
`` Gone !
Do you mean he is dead , Susan ? ''
`` No , Mrs. Dr. dear , that beast is not dead .
But you will never see him again .
I feel sure of that . ''
`` Do n't be so mysterious , Susan .
What has happened to him ? ''
`` Well , Mrs. Dr. dear , he was sitting out on the back steps this afternoon .
It was just after the news came that the Armistice had been signed and he was looking his Hydest .
I can assure you he was an awesome looking beast .
All at once , Mrs. Dr. dear , Bruce Meredith came around the corner of the kitchen walking on his stilts .
He has been learning to walk on them lately and came over to show me how well he could do it .
Mr. Hyde just took a look and one bound carried him over the yard fence .
Then he went tearing through the maple grove in great leaps with his ears laid back .
You never saw a creature so terrified , Mrs. Dr. dear .
He has never returned . ''
`` Oh , he 'll come back , Susan , probably chastened in spirit by his fright . ''
`` We will see , Mrs. Dr. dear -- we will see .
Remember , the Armistice has been signed .
And that reminds me that Whiskers-on-the-moon had a paralytic stroke last night .
I am not saying it is a judgment on him , because I am not in the counsels of the Almighty , but one can have one 's own thoughts about it .
Neither Whiskers-on-the-moon or Mr. Hyde will be much more heard of in Glen St. Mary , Mrs. Dr. dear , and that you may tie to . ''
Mr. Hyde certainly was heard of no more .
As it could hardly have been his fright that kept him away the Ingleside folk decided that some dark fate of shot or poison had descended on him -- except Susan , who believed and continued to affirm that he had merely `` gone to his own place . ''
Rilla lamented him , for she had been very fond of her stately golden pussy , and had liked him quite as well in his weird Hyde moods as in his tame Jekyll ones .
`` And now , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan , `` since the fall house-cleaning is over and the garden truck is all safe in cellar , I am going to take a honeymoon to celebrate the peace . ''
`` A honeymoon , Susan ? ''
`` Yes , Mrs. Dr. dear , a honeymoon , '' repeated Susan firmly .
`` I shall never be able to get a husband but I am not going to be cheated out of everything and a honeymoon I intend to have .
I am going to Charlottetown to visit my married brother and his family .
His wife has been ailing all the fall , but nobody knows whether she is going to die not .
She never did tell anyone what she was going to do until she did it .
That is the main reason why she was never liked in our family .
But to be on the safe side I feel that I should visit her .
I have not been in town for over a day for twenty years and I have a feeling that I might as well see one of those moving pictures there is so much talk of , so as not to be wholly out of the swim .
But have no fear that I shall be carried away with them , Mrs. Dr. dear .
I shall be away a fortnight if you can spare me so long . ''
`` You certainly deserve a good holiday , Susan .
Better take a month -- that is the proper length for a honeymoon . ''
`` No , Mrs. Dr. dear , a fortnight is all I require .
Besides , I must be home for at least three weeks before Christmas to make the proper preparations .
We will have a Christmas that is a Christmas this year , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Do you think there is any chance of our boys being home for it ? ''
`` No , I think not , Susan .
Both Jem and Shirley write that they do n't expect to be home before spring -- it may be even midsummer before Shirley comes .
But Carl Meredith will be home , and Nan and Di , and we will have a grand celebration once more .
We 'll set chairs for all , Susan , as you did our first war Christmas -- yes , for all -- for my dear lad whose chair must always be vacant , as well as for the others , Susan . ''
`` It is not likely I would forget to set his place , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan , wiping her eyes as she departed to pack up for her `` honeymoon . ''
CHAPTER XXXV `` RILLA-MY-RILLA ! ''
Carl Meredith and Miller Douglas came home just before Christmas and Glen St. Mary met them at the station with a brass band borrowed from Lowbridge and speeches of home manufacture .
Miller was brisk and beaming in spite of his wooden leg ; he had developed into a broad-shouldered , imposing looking fellow and the D. C. Medal he wore reconciled Miss Cornelia to the shortcomings of his pedigree to such a degree that she tacitly recognized his engagement to Mary .
The latter put on a few airs -- especially when Carter Flagg took Miller into his store as head clerk -- but nobody grudged them to her .
`` Of course farming 's out of the question for us now , '' she told Rilla , `` but Miller thinks he 'll like storekeeping fine once he gets used to a quiet life again , and Carter Flagg will be a more agreeable boss than old Kitty .
We 're going to be married in the fall and live in the old Mead house with the bay windows and the mansard roof .
I 've always thought that the handsomest house in the Glen , but never did I dream I 'd ever live there .
We 're only renting it , of course , but if things go as we expect and Carter Flagg takes Miller into partnership we 'll own it some day .
Say , I 've got on some in society , have n't I , considering what I come from ?
I never aspired to being a storekeeper 's wife .
But Miller 's real ambitious and he 'll have a wife that 'll back him up .
He says he never saw a French girl worth looking at twice and that his heart beat true to me every moment he was away . ''
Jerry Meredith and Joe Milgrave came back in January , and all winter the boys from the Glen and its environs came home by twos and threes .
None of them came back just as they went away , not even those who had been so fortunate as to escape injury .
One spring day , when the daffodils were blowing on the Ingleside lawn , and the banks of the brook in Rainbow Valley were sweet with white and purple violets , the little , lazy afternoon accommodation train pulled into the Glen station .
It was very seldom that passengers for the Glen came by that train , so nobody was there to meet it except the new station agent and a small black-and-yellow dog , who for four and a half years had met every train that had steamed into Glen St. Mary .
Thousands of trains had Dog Monday met and never had the boy he waited and watched for returned .
Yet still Dog Monday watched on with eyes that never quite lost hope .
Perhaps his dog-heart failed him at times ; he was growing old and rheumatic ; when he walked back to his kennel after each train had gone his gait was very sober now -- he never trotted but went slowly with a drooping head and a depressed tail that had quite lost its old saucy uplift .
One passenger stepped off the train -- a tall fellow in a faded lieutenant 's uniform , who walked with a barely perceptible limp .
He had a bronzed face and there were some grey hairs in the ruddy curls that clustered around his forehead .
The new station agent looked at him anxiously .
He was used to seeing the khaki-clad figures come off the train , some met by a tumultuous crowd , others , who had sent no word of their coming , stepping off quietly like this one .
But there was a certain distinction of bearing and features in this soldier that caught his attention and made him wonder a little more interestedly who he was .
A black-and-yellow streak shot past the station agent .
Dog Monday stiff ?
Dog Monday rheumatic ?
Dog Monday old ?
Never believe it .
Dog Monday was a young pup , gone clean mad with rejuvenating joy .
He flung himself against the tall soldier , with a bark that choked in his throat from sheer rapture .
He flung himself on the ground and writhed in a frenzy of welcome .
He tried to climb the soldier 's khaki legs and slipped down and groveled in an ecstasy that seemed as if it must tear his little body in pieces .
He licked his boots and when the lieutenant had , with laughter on his lips and tears in his eyes , succeeded in gathering the little creature up in his arms Dog Monday laid his head on the khaki shoulder and licked the sunburned neck , making queer sounds between barks and sobs .
The station agent had heard the story of Dog Monday .
He knew now who the returned soldier was .
Dog Monday 's long vigil was ended .
Jem Blythe had come home .
`` We are all very happy -- and sad -- and thankful , '' wrote Rilla in her diary a week later , `` though Susan has not yet recovered -- never will recover , I believe -- from the shock of having Jem come home the very night she had , owing to a strenuous day , prepared a ` pick up ' supper .
I shall never forget the sight of her , tearing madly about from pantry to cellar , hunting out stored away goodies .
Just as if anybody cared what was on the table -- none of us could eat , anyway .
It was meat and drink just to look at Jem .
Mother seemed afraid to take her eyes off him lest he vanish out of her sight .
It is wonderful to have Jem back -- and little Dog Monday .
Monday refuses to be separated from Jem for a moment .
He sleeps on the foot of his bed and squats beside him at meal-times .
And on Sunday he went to church with him and insisted on going right into our pew , where he went to sleep on Jem 's feet .
In the middle of the sermon he woke up and seemed to think he must welcome Jem all over again , for he bounded up with a series of barks and would n't quiet down until Jem took him up in his arms .
But nobody seemed to mind , and Mr. Meredith came and patted his head after the service and said , '' ` Faith and affection and loyalty are precious things wherever they are found .
That little dog 's love is a treasure , Jem . '
`` One night when Jem and I were talking things over in Rainbow Valley , I asked him if he had ever felt afraid at the front .
`` Jem laughed . ''
` Afraid !
I was afraid scores of times -- sick with fear -- I who used to laugh at Walter when he was frightened .
Do you know , Walter was never frightened after he got to the front .
Realities never scared him -- only his imagination could do that .
His colonel told me that Walter was the bravest man in the regiment .
Rilla , I never realized that Walter was dead till I came back home .
You do n't know how I miss him now -- you folks here have got used to it in a sense -- but it 's all fresh to me .
Walter and I grew up together -- we were chums as well as brothers -- and now here , in this old valley we loved when we were children , it has come home to me that I 'm not to see him again . '
`` Jem is going back to college in the fall and so are Jerry and Carl .
I suppose Shirley will , too .
He expects to be home in July .
Nan and Di will go on teaching .
Faith does n't expect to be home before September .
I suppose she will teach then too , for she and Jem ca n't be married until he gets through his course in medicine .
Una Meredith has decided , I think , to take a course in Household Science at Kingsport -- and Gertrude is to be married to her Major and is frankly happy about it -- ` shamelessly happy ' she says ; but I think her attitude is very beautiful .
They are all talking of their plans and hopes -- more soberly than they used to do long ago , but still with interest , and a determination to carry on and make good in spite of lost years . ''
` We 're in a new world , ' Jem says , ` and we 've got to make it a better one than the old .
That is n't done yet , though some folks seem to think it ought to be .
The job is n't finished -- it is n't really begun .
The old world is destroyed and we must build up the new one .
It will be the task of years .
I 've seen enough of war to realize that we 've got to make a world where wars ca n't happen .
We 've given Prussianism its mortal wound but it is n't dead yet and it is n't confined to Germany either .
It is n't enough to drive out the old spirit -- we 've got to bring in the new . '
`` I 'm writing down those words of Jem 's in my diary so that I can read them over occasionally and get courage from them , when moods come when I find it not so easy to ` keep faith . ' ''
Rilla closed her journal with a little sigh .
Just then she was not finding it easy to keep faith .
All the rest seemed to have some special aim or ambition about which to build up their lives -- she had none .
And she was very lonely , horribly lonely .
Jem had come back -- but he was not the laughing boy-brother who had gone away in 1914 and he belonged to Faith .
Walter would never come back .
She had not even Jims left .
All at once her world seemed wide and empty -- that is , it had seemed wide and empty from the moment yesterday when she had read in a Montreal paper a fortnight-old list of returned soldiers in which was the name of Captain Kenneth Ford .
So Ken was home -- and he had not even written her that he was coming .
He had been in Canada two weeks and she had not had a line from him .
Of course he had forgotten -- if there was ever anything to forget -- a handclasp -- a kiss -- a look -- a promise asked under the influence of a passing emotion .
It was all absurd -- she had been a silly , romantic , inexperienced goose .
Well , she would be wiser in the future -- very wise -- and very discreet -- and very contemptuous of men and their ways .
`` I suppose I 'd better go with Una and take up Household Science too , '' she thought , as she stood by her window and looked down through a delicate emerald tangle of young vines on Rainbow Valley , lying in a wonderful lilac light of sunset .
There did not seem anything very attractive just then about Household Science , but , with a whole new world waiting to be built , a girl must do something .
The door bell rang , Rilla turned reluctantly stairwards .
She must answer it -- there was no one else in the house ; but she hated the idea of callers just then .
She went downstairs slowly , and opened the front door .
A man in khaki was standing on the steps -- a tall fellow , with dark eyes and hair , and a narrow white scar running across his brown cheek .
Rilla stared at him foolishly for a moment .
Who was it ?
She ought to know him -- there was certainly something very familiar about him -- `` Rilla-my-Rilla , '' he said .
`` Ken , '' gasped Rilla .
Of course , it was Ken -- but he looked so much older -- he was so much changed -- that scar -- the lines about his eyes and lips -- her thoughts went whirling helplessly .
Ken took the uncertain hand she held out , and looked at her .
The slim Rilla of four years ago had rounded out into symmetry .
He had left a school girl , and he found a woman -- a woman with wonderful eyes and a dented lip , and rose-bloom cheek -- a woman altogether beautiful and desirable -- the woman of his dreams .
`` Is it Rilla-my-Rilla ? ''
he asked , meaningly .
Emotion shook Rilla from head to foot .
Joy -- happiness -- sorrow -- fear -- every passion that had wrung her heart in those four long years seemed to surge up in her soul for a moment as the deeps of being were stirred .
She had tried to speak ; at first voice would not come .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___The_Story_Girl.txt.out
CHAPTER I .
THE HOME OF OUR FATHERS `` I do like a road , because you can be always wondering what is at the end of it . ''
The Story Girl said that once upon a time .
Felix and I , on the May morning when we left Toronto for Prince Edward Island , had not then heard her say it , and , indeed , were but barely aware of the existence of such a person as the Story Girl .
We did not know her at all under that name .
We knew only that a cousin , Sara Stanley , whose mother , our Aunt Felicity , was dead , was living down on the Island with Uncle Roger and Aunt Olivia King , on a farm adjoining the old King homestead in Carlisle .
We supposed we should get acquainted with her when we reached there , and we had an idea , from Aunt Olivia 's letters to father , that she would be quite a jolly creature .
Further than that we did not think about her .
We were more interested in Felicity and Cecily and Dan , who lived on the homestead and would therefore be our roofmates for a season .
But the spirit of the Story Girl 's yet unuttered remark was thrilling in our hearts that morning , as the train pulled out of Toronto .
We were faring forth on a long road ; and , though we had some idea what would be at the end of it , there was enough glamour of the unknown about it to lend a wonderful charm to our speculations concerning it .
We were delighted at the thought of seeing father 's old home , and living among the haunts of his boyhood .
He had talked so much to us about it , and described its scenes so often and so minutely , that he had inspired us with some of his own deep-seated affection for it -- an affection that had never waned in all his years of exile .
We had a vague feeling that we , somehow , belonged there , in that cradle of our family , though we had never seen it .
We had always looked forward eagerly to the promised day when father would take us `` down home , '' to the old house with the spruces behind it and the famous `` King orchard '' before it -- when we might ramble in `` Uncle Stephen 's Walk , '' drink from the deep well with the Chinese roof over it , stand on `` the Pulpit Stone , '' and eat apples from our `` birthday trees . ''
The time had come sooner than we had dared to hope ; but father could not take us after all .
His firm asked him to go to Rio de Janeiro that spring to take charge of their new branch there .
It was too good a chance to lose , for father was a poor man and it meant promotion and increase of salary ; but it also meant the temporary breaking up of our home .
Our mother had died before either of us was old enough to remember her ; father could not take us to Rio de Janeiro .
In the end he decided to send us to Uncle Alec and Aunt Janet down on the homestead ; and our housekeeper , who belonged to the Island and was now returning to it , took charge of us on the journey .
I fear she had an anxious trip of it , poor woman !
She was constantly in a quite justifiable terror lest we should be lost or killed ; she must have felt great relief when she reached Charlottetown and handed us over to the keeping of Uncle Alec .
Indeed , she said as much .
`` The fat one is n't so bad .
He is n't so quick to move and get out of your sight while you 're winking as the thin one .
But the only safe way to travel with those young ones would be to have 'em both tied to you with a short rope -- a MIGHTY short rope . ''
`` The fat one '' was Felix , who was very sensitive about his plumpness .
He was always taking exercises to make him thin , with the dismal result that he became fatter all the time .
He vowed that he did n't care ; but he DID care terribly , and he glowered at Mrs. MacLaren in a most undutiful fashion .
He had never liked her since the day she had told him he would soon be as broad as he was long .
For my own part , I was rather sorry to see her going ; and she cried over us and wished us well ; but we had forgotten all about her by the time we reached the open country , driving along , one on either side of Uncle Alec , whom we loved from the moment we saw him .
He was a small man , with thin , delicate features , close-clipped gray beard , and large , tired , blue eyes -- father 's eyes over again .
We knew that Uncle Alec was fond of children and was heart-glad to welcome `` Alan 's boys . ''
We felt at home with him , and were not afraid to ask him questions on any subject that came uppermost in our minds .
We became very good friends with him on that twenty-four mile drive .
Much to our disappointment it was dark when we reached Carlisle -- too dark to see anything very distinctly , as we drove up the lane of the old King homestead on the hill .
Behind us a young moon was hanging over southwestern meadows of spring-time peace , but all about us were the soft , moist shadows of a May night .
We peered eagerly through the gloom .
`` There 's the big willow , Bev , '' whispered Felix excitedly , as we turned in at the gate .
There it was , in truth -- the tree Grandfather King had planted when he returned one evening from ploughing in the brook field and stuck the willow switch he had used all day in the soft soil by the gate .
It had taken root and grown ; our father and our uncles and aunts had played in its shadow ; and now it was a massive thing , with a huge girth of trunk and great spreading boughs , each of them as large as a tree in itself .
`` I 'm going to climb it to-morrow , '' I said joyfully .
Off to the right was a dim , branching place which we knew was the orchard ; and on our left , among sibilant spruces and firs , was the old , whitewashed house -- from which presently a light gleamed through an open door , and Aunt Janet , a big , bustling , sonsy woman , with full-blown peony cheeks , came to welcome us .
Soon after we were at supper in the kitchen , with its low , dark , raftered ceiling from which substantial hams and flitches of bacon were hanging .
Everything was just as father had described it .
We felt that we had come home , leaving exile behind us .
Felicity , Cecily , and Dan were sitting opposite us , staring at us when they thought we would be too busy eating to see them .
We tried to stare at them when THEY were eating ; and as a result we were always catching each other at it and feeling cheap and embarrassed .
Dan was the oldest ; he was my age -- thirteen .
He was a lean , freckled fellow with rather long , lank , brown hair and the shapely King nose .
We recognized it at once .
His mouth was his own , however , for it was like to no mouth on either the King or the Ward side ; and nobody would have been anxious to claim it , for it was an undeniably ugly one -- long and narrow and twisted .
But it could grin in friendly fashion , and both Felix and I felt that we were going to like Dan .
Felicity was twelve .
She had been called after Aunt Felicity , who was the twin sister of Uncle Felix .
Aunt Felicity and Uncle Felix , as father had often told us , had died on the same day , far apart , and were buried side by side in the old Carlisle graveyard .
We had known from Aunt Olivia 's letters , that Felicity was the beauty of the connection , and we had been curious to see her on that account .
She fully justified our expectations .
She was plump and dimpled , with big , dark-blue , heavy-lidded eyes , soft , feathery , golden curls , and a pink and white skin -- `` the King complexion . ''
The Kings were noted for their noses and complexion .
Felicity had also delightful hands and wrists .
At every turn of them a dimple showed itself .
It was a pleasure to wonder what her elbows must be like .
She was very nicely dressed in a pink print and a frilled muslin apron ; and we understood , from something Dan said , that she had `` dressed up '' in honour of our coming .
This made us feel quite important .
So far as we knew , no feminine creatures had ever gone to the pains of dressing up on our account before .
Cecily , who was eleven , was pretty also -- or would have been had Felicity not been there .
Felicity rather took the colour from other girls .
Cecily looked pale and thin beside her ; but she had dainty little features , smooth brown hair of satin sheen , and mild brown eyes , with just a hint of demureness in them now and again .
We remembered that Aunt Olivia had written to father that Cecily was a true Ward -- she had no sense of humour .
We did not know what this meant , but we thought it was not exactly complimentary .
Still , we were both inclined to think we would like Cecily better than Felicity .
To be sure , Felicity was a stunning beauty .
But , with the swift and unerring intuition of childhood , which feels in a moment what it sometimes takes maturity much time to perceive , we realized that she was rather too well aware of her good looks .
In brief , we saw that Felicity was vain .
`` It 's a wonder the Story Girl is n't over to see you , '' said Uncle Alec .
`` She 's been quite wild with excitement about your coming . ''
`` She has n't been very well all day , '' explained Cecily , `` and Aunt Olivia would n't let her come out in the night air .
She made her go to bed instead .
The Story Girl was awfully disappointed . ''
`` Who is the Story Girl ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Oh , Sara -- Sara Stanley .
We call her the Story Girl partly because she 's such a hand to tell stories -- oh , I ca n't begin to describe it -- and partly because Sara Ray , who lives at the foot of the hill , often comes up to play with us , and it is awkward to have two girls of the same name in the same crowd .
Besides , Sara Stanley does n't like her name and she 'd rather be called the Story Girl . ''
Dan speaking for the first time , rather sheepishly volunteered the information that Peter had also been intending to come over but had to go home to take some flour to his mother instead .
`` Peter ? ''
I questioned .
I had never heard of any Peter .
`` He is your Uncle Roger 's handy boy , '' said Uncle Alec .
`` His name is Peter Craig , and he is a real smart little chap .
But he 's got his share of mischief , that same lad . ''
`` He wants to be Felicity 's beau , '' said Dan slyly .
`` Do n't talk silly nonsense , Dan , '' said Aunt Janet severely .
Felicity tossed her golden head and shot an unsisterly glance at Dan .
`` I would n't be very likely to have a hired boy for a beau , '' she observed .
We saw that her anger was real , not affected .
Evidently Peter was not an admirer of whom Felicity was proud .
We were very hungry boys ; and when we had eaten all we could -- and oh , what suppers Aunt Janet always spread !
-- we discovered that we were very tired also -- too tired to go out and explore our ancestral domains , as we would have liked to do , despite the dark .
We were quite willing to go to bed ; and presently we found ourselves tucked away upstairs in the very room , looking out eastward into the spruce grove , which father had once occupied .
Dan shared it with us , sleeping in a bed of his own in the opposite corner .
The sheets and pillow-slips were fragrant with lavender , and one of Grandmother King 's noted patchwork quilts was over us .
The window was open and we heard the frogs singing down in the swamp of the brook meadow .
We had heard frogs sing in Ontario , of course ; but certainly Prince Edward Island frogs were more tuneful and mellow .
Or was it simply the glamour of old family traditions and tales which was over us , lending its magic to all sights and sounds around us ?
This was home -- father 's home -- OUR home !
We had never lived long enough in any one house to develop a feeling of affection for it ; but here , under the roof-tree built by Great-Grandfather King ninety years ago , that feeling swept into our boyish hearts and souls like a flood of living sweetness and tenderness .
`` Just think , those are the very frogs father listened to when he was a little boy , '' whispered Felix .
`` They can hardly be the SAME frogs , '' I objected doubtfully , not feeling very certain about the possible longevity of frogs .
`` It 's twenty years since father left home . ''
`` Well , they 're the descendants of the frogs he heard , '' said Felix , `` and they 're singing in the same swamp .
That 's near enough . ''
Our door was open and in their room across the narrow hall the girls were preparing for bed , and talking rather more loudly than they might have done had they realized how far their sweet , shrill voices carried .
`` What do you think of the boys ? ''
asked Cecily .
`` Beverley is handsome , but Felix is too fat , '' answered Felicity promptly .
Felix twitched the quilt rather viciously and grunted .
But I began to think I would like Felicity .
It might not be altogether her fault that she was vain .
How could she help it when she looked in the mirror ?
`` I think they 're both nice and nice looking , '' said Cecily .
Dear little soul !
`` I wonder what the Story Girl will think of them , '' said Felicity , as if , after all , that was the main thing .
Somehow , we , too , felt that it was .
We felt that if the Story Girl did not approve of us it made little difference who else did or did not .
`` I wonder if the Story Girl is pretty , '' said Felix aloud .
`` No , she is n't , '' said Dan instantly , from across the room .
`` But you 'll think she is while she 's talking to you .
Everybody does .
It 's only when you go away from her that you find out she is n't a bit pretty after all . ''
The girls ' door shut with a bang .
Silence fell over the house .
We drifted into the land of sleep , wondering if the Story Girl would like us .
CHAPTER II .
A QUEEN OF HEARTS I wakened shortly after sunrise .
The pale May sunshine was showering through the spruces , and a chill , inspiring wind was tossing the boughs about .
`` Felix , wake up , '' I whispered , shaking him .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
he murmured reluctantly .
`` It 's morning .
Let 's get up and go down and out .
I ca n't wait another minute to see the places father has told us of . ''
We slipped out of bed and dressed , without arousing Dan , who was still slumbering soundly , his mouth wide open , and his bed-clothes kicked off on the floor .
I had hard work to keep Felix from trying to see if he could `` shy '' a marble into that tempting open mouth .
I told him it would waken Dan , who would then likely insist on getting up and accompanying us , and it would be so much nicer to go by ourselves for the first time .
Everything was very still as we crept downstairs .
Out in the kitchen we heard some one , presumably Uncle Alec , lighting the fire ; but the heart of house had not yet begun to beat for the day .
We paused a moment in the hall to look at the big `` Grandfather '' clock .
It was not going , but it seemed like an old , familiar acquaintance to us , with the gilt balls on its three peaks ; the little dial and pointer which would indicate the changes of the moon , and the very dent in its wooden door which father had made when he was a boy , by kicking it in a fit of naughtiness .
Then we opened the front door and stepped out , rapture swelling in our bosoms .
There was a rare breeze from the south blowing to meet us ; the shadows of the spruces were long and clear-cut ; the exquisite skies of early morning , blue and wind-winnowed , were over us ; away to the west , beyond the brook field , was a long valley and a hill purple with firs and laced with still leafless beeches and maples .
Behind the house was a grove of fir and spruce , a dim , cool place where the winds were fond of purring and where there was always a resinous , woodsy odour .
On the further side of it was a thick plantation of slender silver birches and whispering poplars ; and beyond it was Uncle Roger 's house .
Right before us , girt about with its trim spruce hedge , was the famous King orchard , the history of which was woven into our earliest recollections .
We knew all about it , from father 's descriptions , and in fancy we had roamed in it many a time and oft .
It was now nearly sixty years since it had had its beginning , when Grandfather King brought his bride home .
Before the wedding he had fenced off the big south meadow that sloped to the sun ; it was the finest , most fertile field on the farm , and the neighbours told young Abraham King that he would raise many a fine crop of wheat in that meadow .
Abraham King smiled and , being a man of few words , said nothing ; but in his mind he had a vision of the years to be , and in that vision he saw , not rippling acres of harvest gold , but great , leafy avenues of wide-spreading trees laden with fruit to gladden the eyes of children and grandchildren yet unborn .
It was a vision to develop slowly into fulfilment .
Grandfather King was in no hurry .
He did not set his whole orchard out at once , for he wished it to grow with his life and history , and be bound up with all of good and joy that should come to his household .
So the morning after he had brought his young wife home they went together to the south meadow and planted their bridal trees .
These trees were no longer living ; but they had been when father was a boy , and every spring bedecked themselves in blossom as delicately tinted as Elizabeth King 's face when she walked through the old south meadow in the morn of her life and love .
When a son was born to Abraham and Elizabeth a tree was planted in the orchard for him .
They had fourteen children in all , and each child had its `` birth tree . ''
Every family festival was commemorated in like fashion , and every beloved visitor who spent a night under their roof was expected to plant a tree in the orchard .
So it came to pass that every tree in it was a fair green monument to some love or delight of the vanished years .
And each grandchild had its tree , there , also , set out by grandfather when the tidings of its birth reached him ; not always an apple tree -- perhaps it was a plum , or cherry or pear .
But it was always known by the name of the person for whom , or by whom , it was planted ; and Felix and I knew as much about `` Aunt Felicity 's pears , '' and `` Aunt Julia 's cherries , '' and `` Uncle Alec 's apples , '' and the `` Rev. Mr. Scott 's plums , '' as if we had been born and bred among them .
And now we had come to the orchard ; it was before us ; we had only to open that little whitewashed gate in the hedge and we might find ourselves in its storied domain .
But before we reached the gate we glanced to our left , along the grassy , spruce-bordered lane which led over to Uncle Roger 's ; and at the entrance of that lane we saw a girl standing , with a gray cat at her feet .
She lifted her hand and beckoned blithely to us ; and , the orchard forgotten , we followed her summons .
For we knew that this must be the Story Girl ; and in that gay and graceful gesture was an allurement not to be gainsaid or denied .
We looked at her as we drew near with such interest that we forgot to feel shy .
No , she was not pretty .
She was tall for her fourteen years , slim and straight ; around her long , white face -- rather too long and too white -- fell sleek , dark-brown curls , tied above either ear with rosettes of scarlet ribbon .
Her large , curving mouth was as red as a poppy , and she had brilliant , almond-shaped , hazel eyes ; but we did not think her pretty .
Then she spoke ; she said , `` Good morning . ''
Never had we heard a voice like hers .
Never , in all my life since , have I heard such a voice .
I can not describe it .
I might say it was clear ; I might say it was sweet ; I might say it was vibrant and far-reaching and bell-like ; all this would be true , but it would give you no real idea of the peculiar quality which made the Story Girl 's voice what it was .
If voices had colour , hers would have been like a rainbow .
It made words LIVE .
Whatever she said became a breathing entity , not a mere verbal statement or utterance .
Felix and I were too young to understand or analyze the impression it made upon us ; but we instantly felt at her greeting that it WAS a good morning -- a surpassingly good morning -- the very best morning that had ever happened in this most excellent of worlds .
`` You are Felix and Beverley , '' she went on , shaking our hands with an air of frank comradeship , which was very different from the shy , feminine advances of Felicity and Cecily .
From that moment we were as good friends as if we had known each other for a hundred years .
`` I am glad to see you .
I was so disappointed I could n't go over last night .
I got up early this morning , though , for I felt sure you would be up early , too , and that you 'd like to have me tell you about things .
I can tell things so much better than Felicity or Cecily .
Do you think Felicity is VERY pretty ? ''
`` She 's the prettiest girl I ever saw , '' I said enthusiastically , remembering that Felicity had called me handsome .
`` The boys all think so , '' said the Story Girl , not , I fancied , quite well pleased .
`` And I suppose she is .
She is a splendid cook , too , though she is only twelve .
I ca n't cook .
I am trying to learn , but I do n't make much progress .
Aunt Olivia says I have n't enough natural gumption ever to be a cook ; but I 'd love to be able to make as good cakes and pies as Felicity can make .
But then , Felicity is stupid .
It 's not ill-natured of me to say that .
It 's just the truth , and you 'd soon find it out for yourselves .
I like Felicity very well , but she IS stupid .
Cecily is ever so much cleverer .
Cecily 's a dear .
So is Uncle Alec ; and Aunt Janet is pretty nice , too . ''
`` What is Aunt Olivia like ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Aunt Olivia is very pretty .
She is just like a pansy -- all velvety and purply and goldy . ''
Felix and I SAW , somewhere inside of our heads , a velvet and purple and gold pansy-woman , just as the Story Girl spoke .
`` But is she NICE ? ''
I asked .
That was the main question about grown-ups .
Their looks mattered little to us .
`` She is lovely .
But she is twenty-nine , you know .
That 's pretty old .
She does n't bother me much .
Aunt Janet says that I 'd have no bringing up at all , if it was n't for her .
Aunt Olivia says children should just be let COME up -- that everything else is settled for them long before they are born .
I do n't understand that .
Do you ? ''
No , we did not .
But it was our experience that grown-ups had a habit of saying things hard to understand .
`` What is Uncle Roger like ? ''
was our next question .
`` Well , I like Uncle Roger , '' said the Story Girl meditatively .
`` He is big and jolly .
But he teases people too much .
You ask him a serious question and you get a ridiculous answer .
He hardly ever scolds or gets cross , though , and THAT is something .
He is an old bachelor . ''
`` Does n't he ever mean to get married ? ''
asked Felix .
`` I do n't know .
Aunt Olivia wishes he would , because she 's tired keeping house for him , and she wants to go to Aunt Julia in California .
But she says he 'll never get married , because he is looking for perfection , and when he finds her she wo n't have HIM . ''
By this time we were all sitting down on the gnarled roots of the spruces , and the big gray cat came over and made friends with us .
He was a lordly animal , with a silver-gray coat beautifully marked with darker stripes .
With such colouring most cats would have had white or silver feet ; but he had four black paws and a black nose .
Such points gave him an air of distinction , and marked him out as quite different from the common or garden variety of cats .
He seemed to be a cat with a tolerably good opinion of himself , and his response to our advances was slightly tinged with condescension .
`` This is n't Topsy , is it ? ''
I asked .
I knew at once that the question was a foolish one .
Topsy , the cat of which father had talked , had flourished thirty years before , and all her nine lives could scarcely have lasted so long .
`` No , but it is Topsy 's great-great-great-great-grandson , '' said the Story Girl gravely .
`` His name is Paddy and he is my own particular cat .
We have barn cats , but Paddy never associates with them .
I am very good friends with all cats .
They are so sleek and comfortable and dignified .
And it is so easy to make them happy .
Oh , I 'm so glad you boys have come to live here .
Nothing ever happens here , except days , so we have to make our own good times .
We were short of boys before -- only Dan and Peter to four girls . ''
`` FOUR girls ?
Oh , yes , Sara Ray .
Felicity mentioned her .
What is she like ?
Where does she live ? ''
`` Just down the hill .
You ca n't see the house for the spruce bush .
Sara is a nice girl .
She 's only eleven , and her mother is dreadfully strict .
She never allows Sara to read a single story .
JUST you fancy !
Sara 's conscience is always troubling her for doing things she 's sure her mother wo n't approve , but it never prevents her from doing them .
It only spoils her fun .
Uncle Roger says that a mother who wo n't let you do anything , and a conscience that wo n't let you enjoy anything is an awful combination , and he does n't wonder Sara is pale and thin and nervous .
But , between you and me , I believe the real reason is that her mother does n't give her half enough to eat .
Not that she 's mean , you know -- but she thinks it is n't healthy for children to eat much , or anything but certain things .
Is n't it fortunate we were n't born into that sort of a family ? ''
`` I think it 's awfully lucky we were all born into the same family , '' Felix remarked .
`` Is n't it ?
I 've often thought so .
And I 've often thought what a dreadful thing it would have been if Grandfather and Grandmother King had never got married to each other .
I do n't suppose there would have been a single one of us children here at all ; or if we were , we would be part somebody else and that would be almost as bad .
When I think it all over I ca n't feel too thankful that Grandfather and Grandmother King happened to marry each other , when there were so many other people they might have married . ''
Felix and I shivered .
We felt suddenly that we had escaped a dreadful danger -- the danger of having been born somebody else .
But it took the Story Girl to make us realize just how dreadful it was and what a terrible risk we had run years before we , or our parents either , had existed .
`` Who lives over there ? ''
I asked , pointing to a house across the fields .
`` Oh , that belongs to the Awkward Man .
His name is Jasper Dale , but everybody calls him the Awkward Man .
And they do say he writes poetry .
He calls his place Golden Milestone .
I know why , because I 've read Longfellow 's poems .
He never goes into society because he is so awkward .
The girls laugh at him and he does n't like it .
I know a story about him and I 'll tell it to you sometime . ''
`` And who lives in that other house ? ''
asked Felix , looking over the westering valley where a little gray roof was visible among the trees .
`` Old Peg Bowen .
She 's very queer .
She lives there with a lot of pet animals in winter , and in summer she roams over the country and begs her meals .
They say she is crazy .
People have always tried to frighten us children into good behaviour by telling us that Peg Bowen would catch us if we did n't behave .
I 'm not so frightened of her as I once was , but I do n't think I would like to be caught by her .
Sara Ray is dreadfully scared of her .
Peter Craig says she is a witch and that he bets she 's at the bottom of it when the butter wo n't come .
But I do n't believe THAT .
Witches are so scarce nowadays .
There may be some somewhere in the world , but it 's not likely there are any here right in Prince Edward Island .
They used to be very plenty long ago .
I know some splendid witch stories I 'll tell you some day .
They 'll just make your blood freeze in your veins . ''
We had n't a doubt of it .
If anybody could freeze the blood in our veins this girl with the wonderful voice could .
But it was a May morning , and our young blood was running blithely in our veins .
We suggested a visit to the orchard would be more agreeable .
`` All right .
I know stories about it , too , '' she said , as we walked across the yard , followed by Paddy of the waving tail .
`` Oh , are n't you glad it is spring ?
The beauty of winter is that it makes you appreciate spring . ''
The latch of the gate clicked under the Story Girl 's hand , and the next moment we were in the King orchard .
CHAPTER III .
LEGENDS OF THE OLD ORCHARD Outside of the orchard the grass was only beginning to grow green ; but here , sheltered by the spruce hedges from uncertain winds and sloping to southern suns , it was already like a wonderful velvet carpet ; the leaves on the trees were beginning to come out in woolly , grayish clusters ; and there were purple-pencilled white violets at the base of the Pulpit Stone .
`` It 's all just as father described it , '' said Felix with a blissful sigh , `` and there 's the well with the Chinese roof . ''
We hurried over to it , treading on the spears of mint that were beginning to shoot up about it .
It was a very deep well , and the curb was of rough , undressed stones .
Over it , the queer , pagoda-like roof , built by Uncle Stephen on his return from a voyage to China , was covered with yet leafless vines .
`` It 's so pretty , when the vines leaf out and hang down in long festoons , '' said the Story Girl .
`` The birds build their nests in it .
A pair of wild canaries come here every summer .
And ferns grow out between the stones of the well as far down as you can see .
The water is lovely .
Uncle Edward preached his finest sermon about the Bethlehem well where David 's soldiers went to get him water , and he illustrated it by describing his old well at the homestead -- this very well -- and how in foreign lands he had longed for its sparkling water .
So you see it is quite famous . ''
`` There 's a cup just like the one that used to be here in father 's time , '' exclaimed Felix , pointing to an old-fashioned shallow cup of clouded blue ware on a little shelf inside the curb .
`` It is the very same cup , '' said the Story Girl impressively .
`` Is n't it an amazing thing ?
That cup has been here for forty years , and hundreds of people have drunk from it , and it has never been broken .
Aunt Julia dropped it down the well once , but they fished it up , not hurt a bit except for that little nick in the rim .
I think it is bound up with the fortunes of the King family , like the Luck of Edenhall in Longfellow 's poem .
It is the last cup of Grandmother King 's second best set .
Her best set is still complete .
Aunt Olivia has it .
You must get her to show it to you .
It 's so pretty , with red berries all over it , and the funniest little pot-bellied cream jug .
Aunt Olivia never uses it except on a family anniversary . ''
We took a drink from the blue cup and then went to find our birthday trees .
We were rather disappointed to find them quite large , sturdy ones .
It seemed to us that they should still be in the sapling stage corresponding to our boyhood .
`` Your apples are lovely to eat , '' the Story Girl said to me , `` but Felix 's are only good for pies .
Those two big trees behind them are the twins ' trees -- my mother and Uncle Felix , you know .
The apples are so dead sweet that nobody but us children and the French boys can eat them .
And that tall , slender tree over there , with the branches all growing straight up , is a seedling that came up of itself , and NOBODY can eat its apples , they are so sour and bitter .
Even the pigs wo n't eat them .
Aunt Janet tried to make pies of them once , because she said she hated to see them going to waste .
But she never tried again .
She said it was better to waste apples alone than apples and sugar too .
And then she tried giving them away to the French hired men , but they would n't even carry them home . ''
The Story Girl 's words fell on the morning air like pearls and diamonds .
Even her prepositions and conjunctions had untold charm , hinting at mystery and laughter and magic bound up in everything she mentioned .
Apple pies and sour seedlings and pigs became straightway invested with a glamour of romance .
`` I like to hear you talk , '' said Felix in his grave , stodgy way .
`` Everybody does , '' said the Story Girl coolly .
`` I 'm glad you like the way I talk .
But I want you to like ME , too -- AS WELL as you like Felicity and Cecily .
Not BETTER .
I wanted that once but I 've got over it .
I found out in Sunday School , the day the minister taught our class , that it was selfish .
But I want you to like me AS WELL . ''
`` Well , I will , for one , '' said Felix emphatically .
I think he was remembering that Felicity had called him fat .
Cecily now joined us .
It appeared that it was Felicity 's morning to help prepare breakfast , therefore she could not come .
We all went to Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
This was a double row of apple trees , running down the western side of the orchard .
Uncle Stephen was the first born of Abraham and Elizabeth King .
He had none of grandfather 's abiding love for woods and meadows and the kindly ways of the warm red earth .
Grandmother King had been a Ward , and in Uncle Stephen the blood of the seafaring race claimed its own .
To sea he must go , despite the pleadings and tears of a reluctant mother ; and it was from the sea he came to set out his avenue in the orchard with trees brought from a foreign land .
Then he sailed away again -- and the ship was never heard of more .
The gray first came in grandmother 's brown hair in those months of waiting .
The , for the first time , the orchard heard the sound of weeping and was consecrated by a sorrow .
`` When the blossoms come out it 's wonderful to walk here , '' said the Story Girl .
`` It 's like a dream of fairyland -- as if you were walking in a king 's palace .
The apples are delicious , and in winter it 's a splendid place for coasting . ''
From the Walk we went to the Pulpit Stone -- a huge gray boulder , as high as a man 's head , in the southeastern corner .
It was straight and smooth in front , but sloped down in natural steps behind , with a ledge midway on which one could stand .
It had played an important part in the games of our uncles and aunts , being fortified castle , Indian ambush , throne , pulpit , or concert platform , as occasion required .
Uncle Edward had preached his first sermon at the age of eight from that old gray boulder ; and Aunt Julia , whose voice was to delight thousands , sang her earliest madrigals there .
The Story Girl mounted to the ledge , sat on the rim , and looked at us .
Pat sat gravely at its base and daintily washed his face with his black paws .
`` Now for your stories about the orchard , '' said I. `` There are two important ones , '' said the Story Girl .
`` The story of the Poet Who Was Kissed , and the Tale of the Family Ghost .
Which one shall I tell ? ''
`` Tell them both , '' said Felix greedily , `` but tell the ghost one first . ''
`` I do n't know . ''
The Story Girl looked dubious .
`` That sort of story ought to be told in the twilight among the shadows .
Then it would frighten the souls out of your bodies . ''
We thought it might be more agreeable not to have the souls frightened out of our bodies , and we voted for the Family Ghost .
`` Ghost stories are more comfortable in daytime , '' said Felix .
The Story Girl began it and we listened avidly .
Cecily , who had heard it many times before , listened just as eagerly as we did .
She declared to me afterwards that no matter how often the Story Girl told a story it always seemed as new and exciting as if you had just heard it for the first time .
`` Long , long ago , '' began the Story Girl , her voice giving us an impression of remote antiquity , `` even before Grandfather King was born , an orphan cousin of his lived here with his parents .
Her name was Emily King .
She was very small and very sweet .
She had soft brown eyes that were too timid to look straight at anybody -- like Cecily 's there -- and long , sleek , brown curls -- like mine ; and she had a tiny birthmark like a pink butterfly on one cheek -- right here .
`` Of course , there was no orchard here then .
It was just a field ; but there was a clump of white birches in it , right where that big , spreading tree of Uncle Alec 's is now , and Emily liked to sit among the ferns under the birches and read or sew .
She had a lover .
His name was Malcolm Ward and he was as handsome as a prince .
She loved him with all her heart and he loved her the same ; but they had never spoken about it .
They used to meet under the birches and talk about everything except love .
One day he told her he was coming the next day to ask A VERY IMPORTANT QUESTION , and he wanted to find her under the birches when he came .
Emily promised to meet him there .
I am sure she stayed awake that night , thinking about it , and wondering what the important question would be , although she knew perfectly well .
I would have .
And the next day she dressed herself beautifully in her best pale blue muslin and sleeked her curls and went smiling to the birches .
And while she was waiting there , thinking such lovely thoughts , a neighbour 's boy came running up -- a boy who did n't know about her romance -- and cried out that Malcolm Ward had been killed by his gun going off accidentally .
Emily just put her hands to her heart -- so -- and fell , all white and broken among the ferns .
And when she came back to life she never cried or lamented .
She was CHANGED .
She was never , never like herself again ; and she was never contented unless she was dressed in her blue muslin and waiting under the birches .
She got paler and paler every day , but the pink butterfly grew redder , until it looked just like a stain of blood on her white cheek .
When the winter came she died .
But next spring '' -- the Story Girl dropped her voice to a whisper that was as audible and thrilling as her louder tones -- `` people began to tell that Emily was sometimes seen waiting under the birches still .
Nobody knew just who told it first .
But more than one person saw her .
Grandfather saw her when he was a little boy .
And my mother saw her once . ''
`` Did YOU ever see her ? ''
asked Felix skeptically .
`` No , but I shall some day , if I keep on believing in her , '' said the Story Girl confidently .
`` I would n't like to see her .
I 'd be afraid , '' said Cecily with a shiver .
`` There would n't be anything to be afraid of , '' said the Story Girl reassuringly .
`` It 's not as if it were a strange ghost .
It 's our own family ghost , so of course it would n't hurt us . ''
We were not so sure of this .
Ghosts were unchancy folk , even if they were our family ghosts .
The Story Girl had made the tale very real to us .
We were glad we had not heard it in the evening .
How could we ever have got back to the house through the shadows and swaying branches of a darkening orchard ?
As it was , we were almost afraid to look up it , lest we should see the waiting , blue-clad Emily under Uncle Alec 's tree .
But all we saw was Felicity , tearing over the green sward , her curls streaming behind her in a golden cloud .
`` Felicity 's afraid she 's missed something , '' remarked the Story Girl in a tone of quiet amusement .
`` Is your breakfast ready , Felicity , or have I time to tell the boys the Story of the Poet Who Was Kissed ? ''
`` Breakfast is ready , but we ca n't have it till father is through attending to the sick cow , so you will likely have time , '' answered Felicity .
Felix and I could n't keep our eyes off her .
Crimson-cheeked , shining-eyed from her haste , her face was like a rose of youth .
But when the Story Girl spoke , we forgot to look at Felicity .
`` About ten years after Grandfather and Grandmother King were married , a young man came to visit them .
He was a distant relative of grandmother 's and he was a Poet .
He was just beginning to be famous .
He was VERY famous afterward .
He came into the orchard to write a poem , and he fell asleep with his head on a bench that used to be under grandfather 's tree .
Then Great-Aunt Edith came into the orchard .
She was not a Great-Aunt then , of course .
She was only eighteen , with red lips and black , black hair and eyes .
They say she was always full of mischief .
She had been away and had just come home , and she did n't know about the Poet .
But when she saw him , sleeping there , she thought he was a cousin they had been expecting from Scotland .
And she tiptoed up -- so -- and bent over -- so -- and kissed his cheek .
Then he opened his big blue eyes and looked up into Edith 's face .
She blushed as red as a rose , for she knew she had done a dreadful thing .
This could not be her cousin from Scotland .
She knew , for he had written so to her , that he had eyes as black as her own .
Edith ran away and hid ; and of course she felt still worse when she found out that he was a famous poet .
But he wrote one of his most beautiful poems on it afterwards and sent it to her -- and it was published in one of his books . ''
We had SEEN it all -- the sleeping genius -- the roguish , red-lipped girl -- the kiss dropped as lightly as a rose-petal on the sunburned cheek .
`` They should have got married , '' said Felix .
`` Well , in a book they would have , but you see this was in real life , '' said the Story Girl .
`` We sometimes act the story out .
I like it when Peter plays the poet .
I do n't like it when Dan is the poet because he is so freckled and screws his eyes up so tight .
But you can hardly ever coax Peter to be the poet -- except when Felicity is Edith -- and Dan is so obliging that way . ''
`` What is Peter like ? ''
I asked .
`` Peter is splendid .
His mother lives on the Markdale road and washes for a living .
Peter 's father ran away and left them when Peter was only three years old .
He has never come back , and they do n't know whether he is alive or dead .
Is n't that a nice way to behave to your family ?
Peter has worked for his board ever since he was six .
Uncle Roger sends him to school , and pays him wages in summer .
We all like Peter , except Felicity . ''
`` I like Peter well enough in his place , '' said Felicity primly , `` but you make far too much of him , mother says .
He is only a hired boy , and he has n't been well brought up , and has n't much education .
I do n't think you should make such an equal of him as you do . ''
Laughter rippled over the Story Girl 's face as shadow waves go over ripe wheat before a wind .
`` Peter is a real gentleman , and he is more interesting than YOU could ever be , if you were brought up and educated for a hundred years , '' she said .
`` He can hardly write , '' said Felicity .
`` William the Conqueror could n't write at all , '' said the Story Girl crushingly .
`` He never goes to church , and he never says his prayers , '' retorted Felicity , uncrushed .
`` I do , too , '' said Peter himself , suddenly appearing through a little gap in the hedge .
`` I say my prayers sometimes . ''
This Peter was a slim , shapely fellow , with laughing black eyes and thick black curls .
Early in the season as it was , he was barefooted .
His attire consisted of a faded , gingham shirt and a scanty pair of corduroy knickerbockers ; but he wore it with such an unconscious air of purple and fine linen that he seemed to be much better dressed than he really was .
`` You do n't pray very often , '' insisted Felicity .
`` Well , God will be all the more likely to listen to me if I do n't pester Him all the time , '' argued Peter .
This was rank heresy to Felicity , but the Story Girl looked as if she thought there might be something in it .
`` You NEVER go to church , anyhow , '' continued Felicity , determined not to be argued down .
`` Well , I ai n't going to church till I 've made up my mind whether I 'm going to be a Methodist or a Presbyterian .
Aunt Jane was a Methodist .
My mother ai n't much of anything but I mean to be something .
It 's more respectable to be a Methodist or a Presbyterian , or SOMETHING , than not to be anything .
When I 've settled what I 'm to be I 'm going to church same as you . ''
`` That 's not the same as being BORN something , '' said Felicity loftily .
`` I think it 's a good deal better to pick your own religion than have to take it just because it was what your folks had , '' retorted Peter .
`` Now , never mind quarrelling , '' said Cecily .
`` You leave Peter alone , Felicity .
Peter , this is Beverley King , and this is Felix .
And we 're all going to be good friends and have a lovely summer together .
Think of the games we can have !
But if you go squabbling you 'll spoil it all .
Peter , what are you going to do to-day ? ''
`` Harrow the wood field and dig your Aunt Olivia 's flower beds . ''
`` Aunt Olivia and I planted sweet peas yesterday , '' said the Story Girl , `` and I planted a little bed of my own .
I am NOT going to dig them up this year to see if they have sprouted .
It is bad for them .
I shall try to cultivate patience , no matter how long they are coming up . ''
`` I am going to help mother plant the vegetable garden to-day , '' said Felicity .
`` Oh , I never like the vegetable garden , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Except when I am hungry .
Then I DO like to go and look at the nice little rows of onions and beets .
But I love a flower garden .
I think I could be always good if I lived in a garden all the time . ''
`` Adam and Eve lived in a garden all the time , '' said Felicity , `` and THEY were far from being always good . ''
`` They might n't have kept good as long as they did if they had n't lived in a garden , '' said the Story Girl .
We were now summoned to breakfast .
Peter and the Story Girl slipped away through the gap , followed by Paddy , and the rest of us walked up the orchard to the house .
`` Well , what do you think of the Story Girl ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` She 's just fine , '' said Felix , enthusiastically .
`` I never heard anything like her to tell stories . ''
`` She ca n't cook , '' said Felicity , `` and she has n't a good complexion .
Mind you , she says she 's going to be an actress when she grows up .
Is n't that dreadful ? ''
We did n't exactly see why .
`` Oh , because actresses are always wicked people , '' said Felicity in a shocked tone .
`` But I daresay the Story Girl will go and be one just as soon as she can .
Her father will back her up in it .
He is an artist , you know . ''
Evidently Felicity thought artists and actresses and all such poor trash were members one of another .
`` Aunt Olivia says the Story Girl is fascinating , '' said Cecily .
The very adjective !
Felix and I recognized its beautiful fitness at once .
Yes , the Story Girl WAS fascinating and that was the final word to be said on the subject .
Dan did not come down until breakfast was half over , and Aunt Janet talked to him after a fashion which made us realize that it would be well to keep , as the piquant country phrase went , from the rough side of her tongue .
But all things considered , we liked the prospect of our summer very much .
Felicity to look at -- the Story Girl to tell us tales of wonder -- Cecily to admire us -- Dan and Peter to play with -- what more could reasonable fellows want ?
CHAPTER IV .
THE WEDDING VEIL OF THE PROUD PRINCESS When we had lived for a fortnight in Carlisle we belonged there , and the freedom of all its small fry was conferred on us .
With Peter and Dan , with Felicity and Cecily and the Story Girl , with pale , gray-eyed little Sara Ray , we were boon companions .
We went to school , of course ; and certain home chores were assigned to each of us for the faithful performance of which we were held responsible .
But we had long hours for play .
Even Peter had plenty of spare time when the planting was over .
We got along very well with each other in the main , in spite of some minor differences of opinion .
As for the grown-up denizens of our small world , they suited us also .
We adored Aunt Olivia ; she was pretty and merry and kind ; and , above all , she had mastered to perfection the rare art of letting children alone .
If we kept ourselves tolerably clean , and refrained from quarrelling or talking slang , Aunt Olivia did not worry us .
Aunt Janet , on the contrary , gave us so much good advice and was so constantly telling us to do this or not to do the other thing , that we could not remember half her instructions , and did not try .
Uncle Roger was , as we had been informed , quite jolly and fond of teasing .
We liked him ; but we had an uncomfortable feeling that the meaning of his remarks was not always that which met the ear .
Sometimes we believed Uncle Roger was making fun of us , and the deadly seriousness of youth in us resented that .
The Uncle Alec we gave our warmest love .
We felt that we always had a friend at court in Uncle Alec , no matter what we did or left undone .
And we never had to turn HIS speeches inside out to discover their meaning .
The social life of juvenile Carlisle centred in the day and Sunday Schools .
We were especially interested in our Sunday School , for we were fortunate enough to be assigned to a teacher who made our lessons so interesting that we no longer regarded Sunday School attendance as a disagreeable weekly duty ; but instead looked forward to it with pleasure , and tried to carry out our teacher 's gentle precepts -- at least on Mondays and Tuesdays .
I am afraid the remembrance grew a little dim the rest of the week .
She was also deeply interested in missions ; and one talk on this subject inspired the Story Girl to do a little home missionary work on her own account .
The only thing she could think of , along this line , was to persuade Peter to go to church .
Felicity did not approve of the design , and said so plainly .
`` He wo n't know how to behave , for he 's never been inside a church door in his life , '' she warned the Story Girl .
`` He 'll likely do something awful , and then you 'll feel ashamed and wish you 'd never asked him to go , and we 'll all be disgraced .
It 's all right to have our mite boxes for the heathen , and send missionaries to them .
They 're far away and we do n't have to associate with them .
But I do n't want to have to sit in a pew with a hired boy . ''
But the Story Girl undauntedly continued to coax the reluctant Peter .
It was not an easy matter .
Peter did not come of a churchgoing stock ; and besides , he alleged , he had not yet made up his mind whether to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
`` It is n't a bit of difference which you are , '' pleaded the Story Girl .
`` They both go to heaven . ''
`` But one way must be easier or better than the other , or else they 'd all be one kind , '' argued Peter .
`` I want to find the easiest way .
And I 've got a hankering after the Methodists .
My Aunt Jane was a Methodist . ''
`` Is n't she one still ? ''
asked Felicity pertly .
`` Well , I do n't know exactly .
She 's dead , '' said Peter rebukingly .
`` Do people go on being just the same after they 're dead ? ''
`` No , of course not .
They 're angels then -- not Methodists or anything , but just angels .
That is , if they go to heaven . ''
`` S'posen they went to the other place ? ''
But Felicity 's theology broke down at this point .
She turned her back on Peter and walked disdainfully away .
The Story Girl returned to the main point with a new argument .
`` We have such a lovely minister , Peter .
He looks just like the picture of St. John my father sent me , only he is old and his hair is white .
I know you 'd like him .
And even if you are going to be a Methodist it wo n't hurt you to go to the Presbyterian church .
The nearest Methodist church is six miles away , at Markdale , and you ca n't attend there just now .
Go to the Presbyterian church until you 're old enough to have a horse . ''
`` But s ` posen I got too fond of being Presbyterian and could n't change if I wanted to ? ''
objected Peter .
Altogether , the Story Girl had a hard time of it ; but she persevered ; and one day she came to us with the announcement that Peter had yielded .
`` He 's going to church with us to-morrow , '' she said triumphantly .
We were out in Uncle Roger 's hill pasture , sitting on some smooth , round stones under a clump of birches .
Behind us was an old gray fence , with violets and dandelions thick in its corners .
Below us was the Carlisle valley , with its orchard-embowered homesteads , and fertile meadows .
Its upper end was dim with a delicate spring mist .
Winds blew up the field like wave upon wave of sweet savour -- spice of bracken and balsam .
We were eating little jam `` turnovers , '' which Felicity had made for us .
Felicity 's turnovers were perfection .
I looked at her and wondered why it was not enough that she should be so pretty and capable of making such turnovers .
If she were only more interesting !
Felicity had not a particle of the nameless charm and allurement which hung about every motion of the Story Girl , and made itself manifest in her lightest word and most careless glance .
Ah well , one can not have every good gift !
The Story Girl had no dimples at her slim , brown wrists .
We all enjoyed our turnovers except Sara Ray .
She ate hers but she knew she should not have done so .
Her mother did not approve of snacks between meals , or of jam turnovers at any time .
Once , when Sara was in a brown study , I asked her what she was thinking of .
`` I 'm trying to think of something ma has n't forbid , '' she answered with a sigh .
We were all glad to hear that Peter was going to church , except Felicity .
She was full of gloomy forebodings and warnings .
`` I 'm surprised at you , Felicity King , '' said Cecily severely .
`` You ought to be glad that poor boy is going to get started in the right way . ''
`` There 's a great big patch on his best pair of trousers , '' protested Felicity .
`` Well , that 's better than a hole , '' said the Story Girl , addressing herself daintily to her turnover .
`` God wo n't notice the patch . ''
`` No , but the Carlisle people will , '' retorted Felicity , in a tone which implied that what the Carlisle people thought was far more important .
`` And I do n't believe that Peter has got a decent stocking to his name .
What will you feel like if he goes to church with the skin of his legs showing through the holes , Miss Story Girl ? ''
`` I 'm not a bit afraid , '' said the Story Girl staunchly .
`` Peter knows better than that . ''
`` Well , all I hope is that he 'll wash behind his ears , '' said Felicity resignedly .
`` How is Pat to-day ? ''
asked Cecily , by way of changing the conversation .
`` Pat is n't a bit better .
He just mopes about the kitchen , '' said the Story Girl anxiously .
`` I went out to the barn and I saw a mouse .
I had a stick in my hand and I fetched a swipe at it -- so .
I killed it stone dead .
Then I took it in to Paddy .
Will you believe it ?
He would n't even look at it .
I 'm so worried .
Uncle Roger says he needs a dose of physic .
But how is he to be made take it , that 's the question .
I mixed a powder in some milk and tried to pour it down his throat while Peter held him .
Just look at the scratches I got !
And the milk went everywhere except down Pat 's throat . ''
`` Would n't it be awful if -- if anything happened to Pat ? ''
whispered Cecily .
`` Well , we could have a jolly funeral , you know , '' said Dan .
We looked at him in such horror that Dan hastened to apologize .
`` I 'd be awful sorry myself if Pat died .
But if he DID , we 'd have to give him the right kind of a funeral , '' he protested .
`` Why , Paddy just seems like one of the family . ''
The Story Girl finished her turnover , and stretched herself out on the grasses , pillowing her chin in her hands and looking at the sky .
She was bare headed , as usual , and her scarlet ribbon was bound filletwise about her head .
She had twined freshly plucked dandelions around it and the effect was that of a crown of brilliant golden stars on her sleek , brown curls .
`` Look at that long , thin , lacy cloud up there , '' she said .
`` What does it make you think of , girls ? ''
`` A wedding veil , '' said Cecily .
`` That is just what it is -- the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess .
I know a story about it .
I read it in a book .
Once upon a time '' -- the Story Girl 's eyes grew dreamy , and her accents floated away on the summer air like wind-blown rose petals -- `` there was a princess who was the most beautiful princess in the world , and kings from all lands came to woo her for a bride .
But she was as proud as she was beautiful .
She laughed all her suitors to scorn .
And when her father urged her to choose one of them as her husband she drew herself up haughtily -- so -- '' The Story Girl sprang to her feet and for a moment we saw the proud princess of the old tale in all her scornful loveliness -- `` and she said , '' ' I will not wed until a king comes who can conquer all kings .
Then I shall be the wife of the king of the world and no one can hold herself higher than I. ' `` So every king went to war to prove that he could conquer every one else , and there was a great deal of bloodshed and misery .
But the proud princess laughed and sang , and she and her maidens worked at a wonderful lace veil which she meant to wear when the king of all kings came .
It was a very beautiful veil ; but her maidens whispered that a man had died and a woman 's heart had broken for every stitch set in it .
`` Just when a king thought he had conquered everybody some other king would come and conquer HIM ; and so it went on until it did not seem likely the proud princess would ever get a husband at all .
But still her pride was so great that she would not yield , even though everybody except the kings who wanted to marry her , hated her for the suffering she had caused .
One day a horn was blown at the palace gate ; and there was one tall man in complete armor with his visor down , riding on a white horse .
When he said he had come to marry the princess every one laughed , for he had no retinue and no beautiful apparel , and no golden crown . ''
` But I am the king who conquers all kings , ' he said . ''
` You must prove it before I shall marry you , ' said the proud princess .
But she trembled and turned pale , for there was something in his voice that frightened her .
And when he laughed , his laughter was still more dreadful . '' '
I can easily prove it , beautiful princess , ' he said , ` but you must go with me to my kingdom for the proof .
Marry me now , and you and I and your father and all your court will ride straightway to my kingdom ; and if you are not satisfied then that I am the king who conquers all kings you may give me back my ring and return home free of me forever more . '
`` It was a strange wooing and the friends of the princess begged her to refuse .
But her pride whispered that it would be such a wonderful thing to be the queen of the king of the world ; so she consented ; and her maidens dressed her , and put on the long lace veil that had been so many years a-making .
Then they were married at once , but the bridegroom never lifted his visor and no one saw his face .
The proud princess held herself more proudly than ever , but she was as white as her veil .
And there was no laughter or merry-making , such as should be at a wedding , and every one looked at every one else with fear in his eyes .
`` After the wedding the bridegroom lifted his bride before him on his white horse , and her father and all the members of his court mounted , too , and rode after them .
On and on they rode , and the skies grew darker and the wind blew and wailed , and the shades of evening came down .
And just in the twilight they rode into a dark valley , filled with tombs and graves . ''
` Why have you brought me here ? '
cried the proud princess angrily . ''
` This is my kingdom , ' he answered .
` These are the tombs of the kings I have conquered .
Behold me , beautiful princess .
I am Death ! '
`` He lifted his visor .
All saw his awful face .
The proud princess shrieked . ''
` Come to my arms , my bride , ' he cried . '
I have won you fairly .
I am the king who conquers all kings ! '
`` He clasped her fainting form to his breast and spurred his white horse to the tombs .
A tempest of rain broke over the valley and blotted them from sight .
Very sadly the old king and courtiers rode home , and never , never again did human eye behold the proud princess .
But when those long , white clouds sweep across the sky , the country people in the land where she lived say , ` Look you , there is the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess . ' ''
The weird spell of the tale rested on us for some moments after the Story Girl had finished .
We had walked with her in the place of death and grown cold with the horror that chilled the heart of the poor princess .
Dan presently broke the spell .
`` You see it does n't do to be too proud , Felicity , '' he remarked , giving her a poke .
`` You 'd better not say too much about Peter 's patches . ''
CHAPTER V. PETER GOES TO CHURCH There was no Sunday School the next afternoon , as superintendent and teachers wished to attend a communion service at Markdale .
The Carlisle service was in the evening , and at sunset we were waiting at Uncle Alec 's front door for Peter and the Story Girl .
None of the grown-ups were going to church .
Aunt Olivia had a sick headache and Uncle Roger stayed home with her .
Aunt Janet and Uncle Alec had gone to the Markdale service and had not yet returned .
Felicity and Cecily were wearing their new summer muslins for the first time -- and were acutely conscious of the fact .
Felicity , her pink and white face shadowed by her drooping , forget-me-not-wreathed , leghorn hat , was as beautiful as usual ; but Cecily , having tortured her hair with curl papers all night , had a rampant bush of curls all about her head which quite destroyed the sweet , nun-like expression of her little features .
Cecily cherished a grudge against fate because she had not been given naturally curly hair as had the other two girls .
But she attained the desire of her heart on Sundays at least , and was quite well satisfied .
It was impossible to convince her that the satin smooth lustre of her week-day tresses was much more becoming to her .
Presently Peter and the Story Girl appeared , and we were all more or less relieved to see that Peter looked quite respectable , despite the indisputable patch on his trousers .
His face was rosy , his thick black curls were smoothly combed , and his tie was neatly bowed ; but it was his legs which we scrutinized most anxiously .
At first glance they seemed well enough ; but closer inspection revealed something not altogether customary .
`` What is the matter with your stockings , Peter ? ''
asked Dan bluntly .
`` Oh , I had n't a pair without holes in the legs , '' answered Peter easily , `` because ma had n't time to darn them this week .
So I put on two pairs .
The holes do n't come in the same places , and you 'd never notice them unless you looked right close . ''
`` Have you got a cent for collection ? ''
demanded Felicity .
`` I 've got a Yankee cent .
I s ` pose it will do , wo n't it ? ''
Felicity shook her head vehemently .
`` Oh , no , no .
It may be all right to pass a Yankee cent on a store keeper or an egg peddler , but it would never do for church . ''
`` I 'll have to go without any , then , '' said Peter .
`` I have n't another cent .
I only get fifty cents a week and I give it all to ma last night . ''
But Peter must have a cent .
Felicity would have given him one herself -- and she was none too lavish of her coppers -- rather than have him go without one .
Dan , however , lent him one , on the distinct understanding that it was to be repaid the next week .
Uncle Roger wandered by at this moment and , beholding Peter , said , '' ` Is Saul also among the prophets ? '
What can have induced you to turn church-goer , Peter , when all Olivia 's gentle persuasions were of no avail ?
The old , old argument I suppose -- ` beauty draws us with a single hair . ' ''
Uncle Roger looked quizzically at Felicity .
We did not know what his quotations meant , but we understood he thought Peter was going to church because of Felicity .
Felicity tossed her head .
`` It is n't my fault that he 's going to church , '' she said snappishly .
`` It 's the Story Girl 's doings . ''
Uncle Roger sat down on the doorstep , and gave himself over to one of the silent , inward paroxysms of laughter we all found so very aggravating .
He shook his big , blond head , shut his eyes , and murmured , `` Not her fault !
Oh , Felicity , Felicity , you 'll be the death of your dear Uncle yet if you do n't watch out . ''
Felicity started off indignantly , and we followed , picking up Sara Ray at the foot of the hill .
The Carlisle church was a very old-fashioned one , with a square , ivy-hung tower .
It was shaded by tall elms , and the graveyard surrounded it completely , many of the graves being directly under its windows .
We always took the corner path through it , passing the King plot where our kindred of four generations slept in a green solitude of wavering light and shadow .
There was Great-grandfather King 's flat tombstone of rough Island sandstone , so overgrown with ivy that we could hardly read its lengthy inscription , recording his whole history in brief , and finishing with eight lines of original verse composed by his widow .
I do not think that poetry was Great-grandmother King 's strong point .
When Felix read it , on our first Sunday in Carlisle , he remarked dubiously that it LOOKED like poetry but did n't SOUND like it .
There , too , slept the Emily whose faithful spirit was supposed to haunt the orchard ; but Edith who had kissed the poet lay not with her kindred .
She had died in a far , foreign land , and the murmur of an alien sea sounded about her grave .
White marble tablets , ornamented with weeping willow trees , marked where Grandfather and Grandmother King were buried , and a single shaft of red Scotch granite stood between the graves of Aunt Felicity and Uncle Felix .
The Story Girl lingered to lay a bunch of wild violets , misty blue and faintly sweet , on her mother 's grave ; and then she read aloud the verse on the stone . ''
` They were lovely and pleasant in their lives and in their death they were not divided . ' ''
The tones of her voice brought out the poignant and immortal beauty and pathos of that wonderful old lament .
The girls wiped their eyes ; and we boys felt as if we might have done so , too , had nobody been looking .
What better epitaph could any one wish than to have it said that he was lovely and pleasant in his life ?
When I heard the Story Girl read it I made a secret compact with myself that I would try to deserve such an epitaph .
`` I wish I had a family plot , '' said Peter , rather wistfully .
`` I have n't ANYTHING you fellows have .
The Craigs are just buried anywhere they happen to die . ''
`` I 'd like to buried here when I die , '' said Felix .
`` But I hope it wo n't be for a good while yet , '' he added in a livelier tone , as we moved onward to the church .
The interior of the church was as old-fashioned as its exterior .
It was furnished with square box pews ; the pulpit was a `` wine-glass '' one , and was reached by a steep , narrow flight of steps .
Uncle Alec 's pew was at the top of the church , quite near the pulpit .
Peter 's appearance did not attract as much attention as we had fondly expected .
Indeed , nobody seemed to notice him at all .
The lamps were not yet lighted and the church was filled with a soft twilight and hush .
Outside , the sky was purple and gold and silvery green , with a delicate tangle of rosy cloud above the elms .
`` Is n't it awful nice and holy in here ? ''
whispered Peter reverently .
`` I did n't know church was like this .
It 's nice . ''
Felicity frowned at him , and the Story Girl touched her with her slippered foot to remind him that he must not talk in church .
Peter stiffened up and sat at attention during the service .
Nobody could have behaved better .
But when the sermon was over and the collection was being taken up , he made the sensation which his entrance had not produced .
Elder Frewen , a tall , pale man , with long , sandy side-whiskers , appeared at the door of our pew with the collection plate .
We knew Elder Frewen quite well and like him ; he was Aunt Janet 's cousin and often visited her .
The contrast between his week-day jollity and the unearthly solemnity of his countenance on Sundays always struck us as very funny .
It seemed so to strike Peter ; for as Peter dropped his cent into the plate he laughed aloud !
Everybody looked at our pew .
I have always wondered why Felicity did not die of mortification on the spot .
The Story Girl turned white , and Cecily turned red .
As for that poor , unlucky Peter , the shame of his countenance was pitiful to behold .
He never lifted his head for the remainder of the service ; and he followed us down the aisle and across the graveyard like a beaten dog .
None of us uttered a word until we reached the road , lying in the white moonshine of the May night .
Then Felicity broke the tense silence by remarking to the Story Girl , `` I told you so ! ''
The Story Girl made no response .
Peter sidled up to her .
`` I 'm awful sorry , '' he said contritely .
`` I never meant to laugh .
It just happened before I could stop myself .
It was this way -- '' `` Do n't you ever speak to me again , '' said the Story Girl , in a tone of cold concentrated fury .
`` Go and be a Methodist , or a Mohammedan , or ANYTHING !
I do n't care what you are !
You have HUMILIATED me ! ''
She marched off with Sara Ray , and Peter dropped back to us with a frightened face .
`` What is it I 've done to her ? ''
he whispered .
`` What does that big word mean ? ''
`` Oh , never mind , '' I said crossly -- for I felt that Peter HAD disgraced us -- `` She 's just mad -- and no wonder .
Whatever made you act so crazy , Peter ? ''
`` Well , I did n't mean to .
And I wanted to laugh twice before that and DID N'T .
It was the Story Girl 's stories made me want to laugh , so I do n't think it 's fair for her to be mad at me .
She had n't ought to tell me stories about people if she do n't want me to laugh when I see them .
When I looked at Samuel Ward I thought of him getting up in meeting one night , and praying that he might be guided in his upsetting and downrising .
I remembered the way she took him off , and I wanted to laugh .
And then I looked at the pulpit and thought of the story she told about the old Scotch minister who was too fat to get in at the door of it , and had to h ` ist himself by his two hands over it , and then whispered to the other minister so that everybody heard him . '' '
This pulpit door was made for speerits ' -- and I wanted to laugh .
And then Mr. Frewen come -- and I thought of her story about his sidewhiskers -- how when his first wife died of information of the lungs he went courting Celia Ward , and Celia told him she would n't marry him unless he shaved them whiskers off .
And he would n't , just to be stubborn .
And one day one of them caught fire , when he was burning brush , and burned off , and every one thought he 'd HAVE to shave the other off then .
But he did n't and just went round with one whisker till the burned one grew out .
And then Celia gave in and took him , because she saw there was n't no hope of HIM ever giving in .
I just remembered that story , and I thought I could see him , taking up the cents so solemn , with one long whisker ; and the laugh just laughed itself before I could help it . ''
We all exploded with laughter on the spot , much to the horror of Mrs. Abraham Ward , who was just driving past , and who came up the next day and told Aunt Janet we had `` acted scandalous '' on the road home from church .
We felt ashamed ourselves , because we knew people should conduct themselves decently and in order on Sunday farings-forth .
But , as with Peter , it `` had laughed itself . ''
Even Felicity laughed .
Felicity was not nearly so angry with Peter as might have been expected .
She even walked beside him and let him carry her Bible .
They talked quite confidentially .
Perhaps she forgave him the more easily , because he had justified her in her predictions , and thus afforded her a decided triumph over the Story Girl .
`` I 'm going to keep on going to church , '' Peter told her .
`` I like it .
Sermons are more int ` resting than I thought , and I like the singing .
I wish I could make up my mind whether to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
I s ` pose I might ask the ministers about it . ''
`` Oh , no , no , do n't do that , '' said Felicity in alarm .
`` Ministers would n't want to be bothered with such questions . ''
`` Why not ?
What are ministers for if they ai n't to tell people how to get to heaven ? ''
`` Oh , well , it 's all right for grown-ups to ask them things , of course .
But it is n't respectful for little boys -- especially hired boys . ''
`` I do n't see why .
But anyhow , I s ` pose it would n't be much use , because if he was a Presbyterian minister he 'd say I ought to be a Presbyterian , and if he was a Methodist he 'd tell me to be one , too .
Look here , Felicity , what IS the difference between them ? ''
`` I -- I do n't know , '' said Felicity reluctantly .
`` I s ` pose children ca n't understand such things .
There must be a great deal of difference , of course , if we only knew what it was .
Anyhow , I am a Presbyterian , and I 'm glad of it . ''
We walked on in silence for a time , thinking our own young thoughts .
Presently they were scattered by an abrupt and startling question from Peter .
`` What does God look like ? ''
he said .
It appeared that none of us had any idea .
`` The Story Girl would prob ` ly know , '' said Cecily .
`` I wish I knew , '' said Peter gravely .
`` I wish I could see a picture of God .
It would make Him seem lots more real . ''
`` I 've often wondered myself what he looks like , '' said Felicity in a burst of confidence .
Even in Felicity , so it would seem , there were depths of thought unplumbed .
`` I 've seen pictures of Jesus , '' said Felix meditatively .
`` He looks just like a man , only better and kinder .
But now that I come to think of it , I 've never seen a picture of God . ''
`` Well , if there is n't one in Toronto it is n't likely there 's one anywhere , '' said Peter disappointedly .
`` I saw a picture of the devil once , '' he added .
`` It was in a book my Aunt Jane had .
She got it for a prize in school .
My Aunt Jane was clever . ''
`` It could n't have been a very good book if there was such a picture in it , '' said Felicity .
`` It was a real good book .
My Aunt Jane would n't have a book that was n't good , '' retorted Peter sulkily .
He refused to discuss the subject further , somewhat to our disappointment .
For we had never seen a picture of the person referred to , and we were rather curious regarding it .
`` We 'll ask Peter to describe it sometime when he 's in a better humour , '' whispered Felix .
Sara Ray having turned in at her own gate , I ran ahead to join the Story Girl , and we walked up the hill together .
She had recovered her calmness of mind , but she made no reference to Peter .
When we reached our lane and passed under Grandfather King 's big willow the fragrance of the orchard struck us in the face like a wave .
We could see the long rows of trees , a white gladness in the moonshine .
It seemed to us that there was in the orchard something different from other orchards that we had known .
We were too young to analyze the vague sensation .
In later years we were to understand that it was because the orchard blossomed not only apple blossoms but all the love , faith , joy , pure happiness and pure sorrow of those who had made it and walked there .
`` The orchard does n't seem the same place by moonlight at all , '' said the Story Girl dreamily .
`` It 's lovely , but it 's different .
When I was very small I used to believe the fairies danced in it on moonlight nights .
I would like to believe it now but I ca n't . ''
`` Why not ? ''
`` Oh , it 's so hard to believe things you know are not true .
It was Uncle Edward who told me there were no such things as fairies .
I was just seven .
He is a minister , so of course I knew he spoke the truth .
It was his duty to tell me , and I do not blame him , but I have never felt quite the same to Uncle Edward since . ''
Ah , do we ever `` feel quite the same '' towards people who destroy our illusions ?
Shall I ever be able to forgive the brutal creature who first told me there was no such person as Santa Claus ?
He was a boy , three years older than myself ; and he may now , for aught I know , be a most useful and respectable member of society , beloved by his kind .
But I know what he must ever seem to me !
We waited at Uncle Alec 's door for the others to come up .
Peter was by way of skulking shamefacedly past into the shadows ; but the Story Girl 's brief , bitter anger had vanished .
`` Wait for me , Peter , '' she called .
She went over to him and held out her hand .
`` I forgive you , '' she said graciously .
Felix and I felt that it would really be worth while to offend her , just to be forgiven in such an adorable voice .
Peter eagerly grasped her hand .
`` I tell you what , Story Girl , I 'm awfully sorry I laughed in church , but you need n't be afraid I ever will again .
No , sir !
And I 'm going to church and Sunday School regular , and I 'll say my prayers every night .
I want to be like the rest of you .
And look here !
I 've thought of the way my Aunt Jane used to give medicine to a cat .
You mix the powder in lard , and spread it on his paws and his sides and he 'll lick it off , 'cause a cat ca n't stand being messy .
If Paddy is n't any better to-morrow , we 'll do that . ''
They went away together hand in hand , children-wise , up the lane of spruces crossed with bars of moonlight .
And there was peace over all that fresh and flowery land , and peace in our little hearts .
CHAPTER VI .
THE MYSTERY OF GOLDEN MILESTONE Paddy was smeared with medicated lard the next day , all of us assisting at the rite , although the Story Girl was high priestess .
Then , out of regard for mats and cushions , he was kept in durance vile in the granary until he had licked his fur clean .
This treatment being repeated every day for a week , Pat recovered his usual health and spirits , and our minds were set at rest to enjoy the next excitement -- collecting for a school library fund .
Our teacher thought it would be an excellent thing to have a library in connection with the school ; and he suggested that each of the pupils should try to see how much money he or she could raise for the project during the month of June .
We might earn it by honest toil , or gather it in by contributions levied on our friends .
The result was a determined rivalry as to which pupil should collect the largest sum ; and this rivalry was especially intense in our home coterie .
Our relatives started us with a quarter apiece .
For the rest , we knew we must depend on our own exertions .
Peter was handicapped at the beginning by the fact that he had no family friend to finance him .
`` If my Aunt Jane 'd been living she 'd have given me something , '' he remarked .
`` And if my father had n't run away he might have given me something too .
But I 'm going to do the best I can anyhow .
Your Aunt Olivia says I can have the job of gathering the eggs , and I 'm to have one egg out of every dozen to sell for myself . ''
Felicity made a similar bargain with her mother .
The Story Girl and Cecily were each to be paid ten cents a week for washing dishes in their respective homes .
Felix and Dan contracted to keep the gardens free from weeds .
I caught brook trout in the westering valley of spruces and sold them for a cent apiece .
Sara Ray was the only unhappy one among us .
She could do nothing .
She had no relatives in Carlisle except her mother , and her mother did not approve of the school library project , and would not give Sara a cent , or put her in any way of earning one .
To Sara , this was humiliation indescribable .
She felt herself an outcast and an alien to our busy little circle , where each member counted every day , with miserly delight , his slowly increasing hoard of small cash .
`` I 'm just going to pray to God to send me some money , '' she announced desperately at last .
`` I do n't believe that will do any good , '' said Dan .
`` He gives lots of things , but he does n't give money , because people can earn that for themselves . ''
`` I ca n't , '' said Sara , with passionate defiance .
`` I think He ought to take that into account . ''
`` Do n't worry , dear , '' said Cecily , who always poured balm .
`` If you ca n't collect any money everybody will know it is n't your fault . ''
`` I wo n't ever feel like reading a single book in the library if I ca n't give something to it , '' mourned Sara .
Dan and the girls and I were sitting in a row on Aunt Olivia 's garden fence , watching Felix weed .
Felix worked well , although he did not like weeding -- `` fat boys never do , '' Felicity informed him .
Felix pretended not to hear her , but I knew he did , because his ears grew red .
Felix 's face never blushed , but his ears always gave him away .
As for Felicity , she did not say things like that out of malice prepense .
It never occurred to her that Felix did not like to be called fat .
`` I always feel so sorry for the poor weeds , '' said the Story Girl dreamily .
`` It must be very hard to be rooted up . ''
`` They should n't grow in the wrong place , '' said Felicity mercilessly .
`` When weeds go to heaven I suppose they will be flowers , '' continued the Story Girl .
`` You do think such queer things , '' said Felicity .
`` A rich man in Toronto has a floral clock in his garden , '' I said .
`` It looks just like the face of a clock , and there are flowers in it that open at every hour , so that you can always tell the time . ''
`` Oh , I wish we had one here , '' exclaimed Cecily .
`` What would be the use of it ? ''
asked the Story Girl a little disdainfully .
`` Nobody ever wants to know the time in a garden . ''
I slipped away at this point , suddenly remembering that it was time to take a dose of magic seed .
I had bought it from Billy Robinson three days before in school .
Billy had assured me that it would make me grow fast .
I was beginning to feel secretly worried because I did not grow .
I had overheard Aunt Janet say I was going to be short , like Uncle Alec .
Now , I loved Uncle Alec , but I wanted to be taller than he was .
So when Billy confided to me , under solemn promise of secrecy , that he had some `` magic seed , '' which would make boys grow , and would sell me a box of it for ten cents , I jumped at the offer .
Billy was taller than any boy of his age in Carlisle , and he assured me it all came from taking magic seed .
`` I was a regular runt before I begun , '' he said , `` and look at me now .
I got it from Peg Bowen .
She 's a witch , you know .
I would n't go near her again for a bushel of magic seed .
It was an awful experience .
I have n't much left , but I guess I 've enough to do me till I 'm as tall as I want to be .
You must take a pinch of the seed every three hours , walking backward , and you must never tell a soul you 're taking it , or it wo n't work .
I would n't spare any of it to any one but you . ''
I felt deeply grateful to Billy , and sorry that I had not liked him better .
Somehow , nobody did like Billy Robinson over and above .
But I vowed I WOULD like him in future .
I paid him the ten cents cheerfully and took the magic seed as directed , measuring myself carefully every day by a mark on the hall door .
I could not see any advance in growth yet , but then I had been taking it only three days .
One day the Story Girl had an inspiration .
`` Let us go and ask the Awkward Man and Mr. Campbell for a contribution to the library fund , '' she said .
`` I am sure no one else has asked them , because nobody in Carlisle is related to them .
Let us all go , and if they give us anything we 'll divide it equally among us . ''
It was a daring proposition , for both Mr. Campbell and the Awkward Man were regarded as eccentric personages ; and Mr. Campbell was supposed to detest children .
But where the Story Girl led we would follow to the death .
The next day being Saturday , we started out in the afternoon .
We took a short cut to Golden Milestone , over a long , green , dewy land full of placid meadows , where sunshine had fallen asleep .
At first all was not harmonious .
Felicity was in an ill humour ; she had wanted to wear her second best dress , but Aunt Janet had decreed that her school clothes were good enough to go `` traipsing about in the dust . ''
Then the Story Girl arrived , arrayed not in any second best but in her very best dress and hat , which her father had sent her from Paris -- a dress of soft , crimson silk , and a white leghorn hat encircled by flame-red poppies .
Neither Felicity nor Cecily could have worn it ; but it became the Story Girl perfectly .
In it she was a thing of fire and laughter and glow , as if the singular charm of her temperament were visible and tangible in its vivid colouring and silken texture .
`` I should n't think you 'd put on your best clothes to go begging for the library in , '' said Felicity cuttingly .
`` Aunt Olivia says that when you are going to have an important interview with a man you ought to look your very best , '' said the Story Girl , giving her skirt a lustrous swirl and enjoying the effect .
`` Aunt Olivia spoils you , '' said Felicity .
`` She does n't either , Felicity King !
Aunt Olivia is just sweet .
She kisses me good-night every night , and your mother NEVER kisses you . ''
`` My mother does n't make kisses so common , '' retorted Felicity .
`` But she gives us pie for dinner every day . ''
`` So does Aunt Olivia . ''
`` Yes , but look at the difference in the size of the pieces !
And Aunt Olivia only gives you skim milk .
My mother gives us cream . ''
`` Aunt Olivia 's skim milk is as good as your mother 's cream , '' cried the Story Girl hotly .
`` Oh , girls , do n't fight , '' said Cecily , the peacemaker .
`` It 's such a nice day , and we 'll have a nice time if you do n't spoil it by fighting . ''
`` We 're NOT fighting , '' said Felicity .
`` And I like Aunt Olivia .
But my mother is just as good as Aunt Olivia , there now ! ''
`` Of course she is .
Aunt Janet is splendid , '' agreed the Story Girl .
They smiled at each other amicably .
Felicity and the Story Girl were really quite fond of each other , under the queer surface friction that commonly resulted from their intercourse .
`` You said once you knew a story about the Awkward Man , '' said Felix .
`` You might tell it to us . ''
`` All right , '' agreed the Story Girl .
`` The only trouble is , I do n't know the whole story .
But I 'll tell you all I do know .
I call it ` The Mystery of the Golden Milestone . ' ''
`` Oh , I do n't believe that story is true , '' said Felicity .
`` I believe Mrs. Griggs was just romancing .
She DOES romance , mother says . ''
`` Yes ; but I do n't believe she could ever have thought of such a thing as this herself , so I believe it must be true , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Anyway , this is the story , boys .
You know the Awkward Man has lived alone ever since his mother died , ten years ago .
Abel Griggs is his hired man , and he and his wife live in a little house down the Awkward Man 's lane .
Mrs. Griggs makes his bread for him , and she cleans up his house now and then .
She says he keeps it very neat .
But till last fall there was one room she never saw .
It was always locked -- the west one , looking out over his garden .
One day last fall the Awkward Man went to Summerside , and Mrs. Griggs scrubbed his kitchen .
Then she went over the whole house and she tried the door of the west room .
Mrs. Griggs is a VERY curious woman .
Uncle Roger says all women have as much curiosity as is good for them , but Mrs. Griggs has more .
She expected to find the door locked as usual .
It was NOT locked .
She opened it and went in .
What do you suppose she found ? ''
`` Something like -- like Bluebeard 's chamber ? ''
suggested Felix in a scared tone .
`` Oh , no , NO !
Nothing like THAT could happen in Prince Edward Island .
But if there HAD been beautiful wives hanging up by their hair all round the walls I do n't believe Mrs. Griggs could have been much more astonished .
The room had never been furnished in his mother 's time , but now it was ELEGANTLY furnished , though Mrs. Griggs says SHE does n't know when or how that furniture was brought there .
She says she never saw a room like it in a country farmhouse .
It was like a bed-room and sitting-room combined .
The floor was covered with a carpet like green velvet .
There were fine lace curtains at the windows and beautiful pictures on the walls .
There was a little white bed , and a dressing-table , a bookcase full of books , a stand with a work basket on it , and a rocking-chair .
There was a woman 's picture above the bookcase .
Mrs. Griggs says she thinks it was a coloured photograph , but she did n't know who it was .
Anyway , it was a very pretty girl .
But the most amazing thing of all was that A WOMAN 'S DRESS was hanging over a chair by the table .
Mrs. Griggs says it NEVER belonged to Jasper Dale 's mother , for she thought it a sin to wear anything but print and drugget ; and this dress was of PALE BLUE silk .
Besides that , there was a pair of blue satin slippers on the floor beside it -- HIGH-HEELED slippers .
And on the fly-leaves of the books the name ` Alice ' was written .
Now , there never was an Alice in the Dale connection and nobody ever heard of the Awkward Man having a sweetheart .
There , is n't that a lovely mystery ? ''
`` It 's a pretty queer yarn , '' said Felix .
`` I wonder if it is true -- and what it means . ''
`` I intend to find out what it means , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I am going to get acquainted with the Awkward Man sometime , and then I 'll find out his Alice-secret . ''
`` I do n't see how you 'll ever get acquainted with him , '' said Felicity .
`` He never goes anywhere except to church .
He just stays home and reads books when he is n't working .
Mother says he is a perfect hermit . ''
`` I 'll manage it somehow , '' said the Story Girl -- and we had no doubt that she would .
`` But I must wait until I 'm a little older , for he would n't tell the secret of the west room to a little girl .
And I must n't wait till I 'm TOO old , for he is frightened of grown-up girls , because he thinks they laugh at his awkwardness .
I know I will like him .
He has such a nice face , even if he is awkward .
He looks like a man you could tell things to . ''
`` Well , I 'd like a man who could move around without falling over his own feet , '' said Felicity .
`` And then the look of him !
Uncle Roger says he is long , lank , lean , narrow , and contracted . ''
`` Things always sound worse than they are when Uncle Roger says them , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Uncle Edward says Jasper Dale is a very clever man and it 's a great pity he was n't able to finish his college course .
He went to college two years , you know .
Then his father died , and he stayed home with his mother because she was very delicate .
I call him a hero .
I wonder if it is true that he writes poetry .
Mrs. Griggs says it is .
She says she has seen him writing it in a brown book .
She said she could n't get near enough to read it , but she knew it was poetry by the shape of it . ''
`` Very likely .
If that blue silk dress story is true , I 'd believe ANYTHING of him , '' said Felicity .
We were near Golden Milestone now .
The house was a big , weather-gray structure , overgrown with vines and climbing roses .
Something about the three square windows in the second story gave it an appearance of winking at us in a friendly fashion through its vines -- at least , so the Story Girl said ; and , indeed , we could see it for ourselves after she had once pointed it out to us .
We did not get into the house , however .
We met the Awkward man in his yard , and he gave us a quarter apiece for our library .
He did not seem awkward or shy ; but then we were only children , and his foot was on his native heath .
He was a tall , slender man , who did not look his forty years , so unwrinkled was his high , white forehead , so clear and lustrous his large , dark-blue eyes , so free from silver threads his rather long black hair .
He had large hands and feet , and walked with a slight stoop .
I am afraid we stared at him rather rudely while the Story Girl talked to him .
But was not an Awkward Man , who was also a hermit and kept blue silk dresses in a locked room , and possibly wrote poetry , a legitimate object of curiosity ?
I leave it to you .
When we got away we compared notes , and found that we all liked him -- and this , although he had said little and had appeared somewhat glad to get rid of us .
`` He gave us the money like a gentleman , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I felt he did n't grudge it .
And now for Mr. Campbell .
It was on HIS account I put on my red silk .
I do n't suppose the Awkward Man noticed it at all , but Mr. Campbell will , or I 'm much mistaken . ''
CHAPTER VII .
HOW BETTY SHERMAN WON A HUSBAND The rest of us did not share the Story Girl 's enthusiasm regarding our call on Mr. Campbell .
We secretly dreaded it .
If , as was said , he detested children , who knew what sort of a reception we might meet ?
Mr. Campbell was a rich , retired farmer , who took life easily .
He had visited New York and Boston , Toronto and Montreal ; he had even been as far as the Pacific coast .
Therefore he was regarded in Carlisle as a much travelled man ; and he was known to be `` well read '' and intelligent .
But it was also known that Mr. Campbell was not always in a good humour .
If he liked you there was nothing he would not do for you ; if he disliked you -- well , you were not left in ignorance of it .
In short , we had the impression that Mr. Campbell resembled the famous little girl with the curl in the middle of her forehead .
`` When he was good , he was very , very good , and when he was bad he was horrid . ''
What if this were one of his horrid days ?
`` He ca n't DO anything to us , you know , '' said the Story Girl .
`` He may be rude , but that wo n't hurt any one but himself . ''
`` Hard words break no bones , '' observed Felicity philosophically .
`` But they hurt your feelings .
I am afraid of Mr. Campbell , '' said Cecily candidly .
`` Perhaps we 'd better give up and go home , '' suggested Dan .
`` You can go home if you like , '' said the Story Girl scornfully .
`` But I am going to see Mr. Campbell .
I know I can manage him .
But if I have to go alone , and he gives me anything , I 'll keep it all for my own collection , mind you . ''
That settled it .
We were not going to let the Story Girl get ahead of us in the manner of collecting .
Mr. Campbell 's housekeeper ushered us into his parlour and left us .
Presently Mr. Campbell himself was standing in the doorway , looking us over .
We took heart of grace .
It seemed to be one of his good days , for there was a quizzical smile on his broad , clean-shaven , strongly-featured face .
Mr. Campbell was a tall man , with a massive head , well thatched with thick , black hair , gray-streaked .
He had big , black eyes , with many wrinkles around them , and a thin , firm , long-lipped mouth .
We thought him handsome , for an old man .
His gaze wandered over us with uncomplimentary indifference until it fell on the Story Girl , leaning back in an arm-chair .
She looked like a slender red lily in the unstudied grace of her attitude .
A spark flashed into Mr. Campbell 's black eyes .
`` Is this a Sunday School deputation ? ''
he inquired rather ironically .
`` No .
We have come to ask a favour of you , '' said the Story Girl .
The magic of her voice worked its will on Mr. Campbell , as on all others .
He came in , sat down , hooked his thumb into his vest pocket , and smiled at her .
`` What is it ? ''
he asked .
`` We are collecting for our school library , and we have called to ask you for a contribution , '' she replied .
`` Why should I contribute to your school library ? ''
demanded Mr. Campbell .
This was a poser for us .
Why should he , indeed ?
But the Story Girl was quite equal to it .
Leaning forward , and throwing an indescribable witchery into tone and eyes and smile , she said , `` Because a lady asks you . ''
Mr. Campbell chuckled .
`` The best of all reasons , '' he said .
`` But see here , my dear young lady , I 'm an old miser and curmudgeon , as you may have heard .
I HATE to part with my money , even for a good reason .
And I NEVER part with any of it , unless I am to receive some benefit from the expenditure .
Now , what earthly good could I get from your three by six school library ?
None whatever .
But I shall make you a fair offer .
I have heard from my housekeeper 's urchin of a son that you are a ` master hand ' to tell stories .
Tell me one , here and now .
I shall pay you in proportion to the entertainment you afford me .
Come now , and do your prettiest . ''
There was a fine mockery in his tone that put the Story Girl on her mettle instantly .
She sprang to her feet , an amazing change coming over her .
Her eyes flashed and burned ; crimson spots glowed in her cheeks .
`` I shall tell you the story of the Sherman girls , and how Betty Sherman won a husband , '' she said .
We gasped .
Was the Story Girl crazy ?
Or had she forgotten that Betty Sherman was Mr. Campbell 's own great-grandmother , and that her method of winning a husband was not exactly in accordance with maidenly traditions .
But Mr. Campbell chuckled again .
`` An excellent test , '' he said .
`` If you can amuse ME with that story you must be a wonder .
I 've heard it so often that it has no more interest for me than the alphabet . ''
`` One cold winter day , eighty years ago , '' began the Story Girl without further parley , `` Donald Fraser was sitting by the window of his new house , playing his fiddle for company , and looking out over the white , frozen bay before his door .
It was bitter , bitter cold , and a storm was brewing .
But , storm , or no storm , Donald meant to go over the bay that evening to see Nancy Sherman .
He was thinking of her as he played ` Annie Laurie , ' for Nancy was more beautiful than the lady of the song .
` Her face , it is the fairest that e'er the sun shone on , ' hummed Donald -- and oh , he thought so , too !
He did not know whether Nancy cared for him or not .
He had many rivals .
But he knew that if she would not come to be the mistress of his new house no one else ever should .
So he sat there that afternoon and dreamed of her , as he played sweet old songs and rollicking jigs on his fiddle .
`` While he was playing a sleigh drove up to the door , and Neil Campbell came in .
Donald was not overly glad to see him , for he suspected where he was going .
Neil Campbell , who was Highland Scotch and lived down at Berwick , was courting Nancy Sherman , too ; and , what was far worse , Nancy 's father favoured him , because he was a richer man than Donald Fraser .
But Donald was not going to show all he thought -- Scotch people never do -- and he pretended to be very glad to see Neil and made him heartily welcome .
`` Neil sat down by the roaring fire , looking quite well satisfied with himself .
It was ten miles from Berwick to the bay shore , and a call at a half way house was just the thing .
Then Donald brought out the whisky .
They always did that eighty years ago , you know .
If you were a woman , you could give your visitors a dish of tea ; but if you were a man and did not offer them a ` taste ' of whisky , you were thought either very mean or very ignorant . ''
` You look cold , ' said Donald , in his great , hearty voice .
` Sit nearer the fire , man , and put a bit of warmth in your veins .
It 's bitter cold the day .
And now tell me the Berwick news .
Has Jean McLean made up with her man yet ?
And is it true that Sandy McQuarrie is to marry Kate Ferguson ?
` Twill be a match now !
Sure , with her red hair , Sandy will not be like to lose his bride past finding . '
`` Neil had plenty of news to tell .
And the more whisky he drank the more he told .
He did n't notice that Donald was not taking much .
Neil talked on and on , and of course he soon began to tell things it would have been much wiser not to tell .
Finally he told Donald that he was going over the bay to ask Nancy Sherman that very night to marry him .
And if she would have him , then Donald and all the folks should see a wedding that WAS a wedding .
`` Oh , was n't Donald taken aback !
This was more than he had expected .
Neil had n't been courting Nancy very long , and Donald never dreamed he would propose to her QUITE so soon .
`` At first Donald did n't know what to do .
He felt sure deep down in his heart , that Nancy liked HIM .
She was very shy and modest , but you know a girl can let a man see she likes him without going out of her way .
But Donald knew that if Neil proposed first he would have the best chance .
Neil was rich and the Shermans were poor , and old Elias Sherman would have the most to say in the matter .
If he told Nancy she must take Neil Campbell she would never dream of disobeying him .
Old Elias Sherman was a man who had to be obeyed .
But if Nancy had only promised some one else first her father would not make her break her word .
`` Was n't it a hard plight for poor Donald ?
But he was a Scotchman , you know , and it 's pretty hard to stick a Scotchman long .
Presently a twinkle came into his eyes , for he remembered that all was fair in love and war .
So he said to Neil , oh , so persuasively , '' ` Have some more , man , have some more .
` Twill keep the heart in you in the teeth of that wind .
Help yourself .
There 's plenty more where that came from . '
`` Neil did n't want MUCH persuasion .
He took some more , and said slyly , '' ` Is it going over the bay the night that yourself will be doing ? '
`` Donald shook his head . '' '
I had thought of it , ' he owned , ` but it looks a wee like a storm , and my sleigh is at the blacksmith 's to be shod .
If I went it must be on Black Dan 's back , and he likes a canter over the ice in a snow-storm as little as I. His own fireside is the best place for a man to-night , Campbell .
Have another taste , man , have another taste . '
`` Neil went on ` tasting , ' and that sly Donald sat there with a sober face , but laughing eyes , and coaxed him on .
At last Neil 's head fell forward on his breast , and he was sound asleep .
Donald got up , put on his overcoat and cap , and went to the door . ''
` May your sleep be long and sweet , man , ' he said , laughing softly , ` and as for the waking , ` twill be betwixt you and me . '
`` With that he untied Neil 's horse , climbed into Neil 's sleigh , and tucked Neil 's buffalo robe about him . ''
` Now , Bess , old girl , do your bonniest , ' he said .
` There 's more than you know hangs on your speed .
If the Campbell wakes too soon Black Dan could show you a pair of clean heels for all your good start .
On , my girl . '
`` Brown Bess went over the ice like a deer , and Donald kept thinking of what he should say to Nancy -- and more still of what she would say to him .
SUPPOSE he was mistaken .
SUPPOSE she said ` no ! ' ''
` Neil would have the laugh on me then .
Sure he 's sleeping well .
And the snow is coming soon .
There 'll be a bonny swirl on the bay ere long .
I hope no harm will come to the lad if he starts to cross .
When he wakes he 'll be in such a fine Highland temper that he 'll never stop to think of danger .
Well , Bess , old girl , here we are .
Now , Donald Fraser , pluck up heart and play the man .
Never flinch because a slip of a lass looks scornful at you out of the bonniest dark-blue eyes on earth . '
`` But in spite of his bold words Donald 's heart was thumping as he drove into the Sherman yard .
Nancy was there milking a cow by the stable door , but she stood up when she saw Donald coming .
Oh , she was very beautiful !
Her hair was like a skein of golden silk , and her eyes were as blue as the gulf water when the sun breaks out after a storm .
Donald felt more nervous than ever .
But he knew he must make the most of his chance .
He might not see Nancy alone again before Neil came .
He caught her hand and stammered out , '' ` Nan , lass , I love you .
You may think 't is a hasty wooing , but that 's a story I can tell you later maybe .
I know well I 'm not worthy of you , but if true love could make a man worthy there 'd be none before me .
Will you have me , Nan ? '
`` Nancy did n't SAY she would have him .
She just LOOKED it , and Donald kissed her right there in the snow .
`` The next morning the storm was over .
Donald knew Neil must be soon on his track .
He did not want to make the Sherman house the scene of a quarrel , so he resolved to get away before the Campbell came .
He persuaded Nancy to go with him to visit some friends in another settlement .
As he brought Neil 's sleigh up to the door he saw a black speck far out on the bay and laughed . ''
` Black Dan goes well , but he 'll not be quick enough , ' he said .
`` Half an hour later Neil Campbell rushed into the Sherman kitchen and oh , how angry he was !
There was nobody there but Betty Sherman , and Betty was not afraid of him .
She was never afraid of anybody .
She was very handsome , with hair as brown as October nuts and black eyes and crimson cheeks ; and she had always been in love with Neil Campbell herself . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Campbell , ' she said , with a toss of her head .
` It 's early abroad you are .
And on Black Dan , no less !
Was I mistaken in thinking that Donald Fraser said once that his favourite horse should never be backed by any man but him ?
But doubtless a fair exchange is no robbery , and Brown Bess is a good mare in her way . ' ''
` Where is Donald Fraser ? '
said Neil , shaking his fist .
` It 's him I 'm seeking , and it 's him I will be finding .
Where is he , Betty Sherman ? ' ''
` Donald Fraser is far enough away by this time , ' mocked Betty .
` He is a prudent fellow , and has some quickness of wit under that sandy thatch of his .
He came here last night at sunset , with a horse and sleigh not his own , or lately gotten , and he asked Nan in the stable yard to marry him .
Did a man ask ME to marry him at the cow 's side with a milking pail in my hand , it 's a cold answer he 'd get for his pains .
But Nan thought differently , and they sat late together last night , and 't was a bonny story Nan wakened me to hear when she came to bed -- the story of a braw lover who let his secret out when the whisky was above the wit , and then fell asleep while his rival was away to woo and win his lass .
Did you ever hear a like story , Mr. Campbell ? ' ''
` Oh , yes , ' said Neil fiercely .
` It is laughing at me over the country side and telling that story that Donald Fraser will be doing , is it ?
But when I meet him it is not laughing he will be doing .
Oh , no .
There will be another story to tell ! ' ''
` Now , do n't meddle with the man , ' cried Betty .
` What a state to be in because one good-looking lass likes sandy hair and gray eyes better than Highland black and blue !
You have not the spirit of a wren , Neil Campbell .
Were I you , I would show Donald Fraser that I could woo and win a lass as speedily as any Lowlander of them all ; that I would !
There 's many a girl would gladly say ` yes ' for your asking .
And here stands one !
Why not marry ME , Neil Campbell ?
Folks say I 'm as bonny as Nan -- and I could love you as well as Nan loves her Donald -- ay , and ten times better ! '
`` What do you suppose the Campbell did ?
Why , just the thing he ought to have done .
He took Betty at her word on the spot ; and there was a double wedding soon after .
And it is said that Neil and Betty were the happiest couple in the world -- happier even than Donald and Nancy .
So all was well because it ended well ! ''
The Story Girl curtsied until her silken skirts swept the floor .
Then she flung herself in her chair and looked at Mr. Campbell , flushed , triumphant , daring .
The story was old to us .
It had once been published in a Charlottetown paper , and we had read in Aunt Olivia 's scrapbook , where the Story Girl had learned it .
But we had listened entranced .
I have written down the bare words of the story , as she told it ; but I can never reproduce the charm and colour and spirit she infused into it .
It LIVED for us .
Donald and Neil , Nancy and Betty , were there in that room with us .
We saw the flashes of expression on their faces , we heard their voices , angry or tender , mocking or merry , in Lowland and Highland accent .
We realized all the mingled coquetry and feeling and defiance and archness in Betty Sherman 's daring speech .
We had even forgotten all about Mr. Campbell .
That gentleman , in silence , took out his wallet , extracted a note therefrom , and handed it gravely to the Story Girl .
`` There are five dollars for you , '' he said , `` and your story was well worth it .
You ARE a wonder .
Some day you will make the world realize it .
I 've been about a bit , and heard some good things , but I 've never enjoyed anything more than that threadbare old story I heard in my cradle .
And now , will you do me a favour ? ''
`` Of course , '' said the delighted Story Girl .
`` Recite the multiplication table for me , '' said Mr. Campbell .
We stared .
Well might Mr. Campbell be called eccentric .
What on earth did he want the multiplication table recited for ?
Even the Story Girl was surprised .
But she began promptly , with twice one and went through it to twelve times twelve .
She repeated it simply , but her voice changed from one tone to another as each in succession grew tired .
We had never dreamed that there was so much in the multiplication table .
As she announced it , the fact that three times three was nine was exquisitely ridiculous , five times six almost brought tears to our eyes , eight times seven was the most tragic and frightful thing ever heard of , and twelve times twelve rang like a trumpet call to victory .
Mr. Campbell nodded his satisfaction .
`` I thought you could do it , '' he said .
`` The other day I found this statement in a book .
` Her voice would have made the multiplication table charming ! '
I thought of it when I heard yours .
I did n't believe it before , but I do now . ''
Then he let us go .
`` You see , '' said the Story Girl as we went home , `` you need never be afraid of people . ''
`` But we are not all Story Girls , '' said Cecily .
That night we heard Felicity talking to Cecily in their room .
`` Mr. Campbell never noticed one of us except the Story Girl , '' she said , `` but if I had put on MY best dress as she did maybe she would n't have taken all the attention . ''
`` Could you ever do what Betty Sherman did , do you suppose ? ''
asked Cecily absently .
`` No ; but I believe the Story Girl could , '' answered Felicity rather snappishly .
CHAPTER VIII .
A TRAGEDY OF CHILDHOOD The Story Girl went to Charlottetown for a week in June to visit Aunt Louisa .
Life seemed very colourless without her , and even Felicity admitted that it was lonesome .
But three days after her departure Felix told us something on the way home from school which lent some spice to existence immediately .
`` What do you think ? ''
he said in a very solemn , yet excited , tone .
`` Jerry Cowan told me at recess this afternoon that he HAD SEEN A PICTURE OF GOD -- that he has it at home in an old , red-covered history of the world , and has looked at it OFTEN . ''
To think that Jerry Cowan should have seen such a picture often !
We were as deeply impressed as Felix had meant us to be .
`` Did he say what it was like ? ''
asked Peter .
`` No -- only that it was a picture of God , walking in the garden of Eden . ''
`` Oh , '' whispered Felicity -- we all spoke in low tones on the subject , for , by instinct and training , we thought and uttered the Great Name with reverence , in spite of our devouring curiosity -- `` oh , WOULD Jerry Cowan bring it to school and let us see it ? ''
`` I asked him that , soon as ever he told me , '' said Felix .
`` He said he might , but he could n't promise , for he 'd have to ask his mother if he could bring the book to school .
If she 'll let him he 'll bring it to-morrow . ''
`` Oh , I 'll be almost afraid to look at it , '' said Sara Ray tremulously .
I think we all shared her fear to some extent .
Nevertheless , we went to school the next day burning with curiosity .
And we were disappointed .
Possibly night had brought counsel to Jerry Cowan ; or perhaps his mother had put him up to it .
At all events , he announced to us that he could n't bring the red-covered history to school , but if we wanted to buy the picture outright he would tear it out of the book and sell it to us for fifty cents .
We talked the matter over in serious conclave in the orchard that evening .
We were all rather short of hard cash , having devoted most of our spare means to the school library fund .
But the general consensus of opinion was that we must have the picture , no matter what pecuniary sacrifices were involved .
If we could each give about seven cents we would have the amount .
Peter could only give four , but Dan gave eleven , which squared matters .
`` Fifty cents would be pretty dear for any other picture , but of course this is different , '' said Dan .
`` And there 's a picture of Eden thrown in , too , you know , '' added Felicity .
`` Fancy selling God 's picture , '' said Cecily in a shocked , awed tone .
`` Nobody but a Cowan would do it , and that 's a fact , '' said Dan .
`` When we get it we 'll keep it in the family Bible , '' said Felicity .
`` That 's the only proper place . ''
`` Oh , I wonder what it will be like , '' breathed Cecily .
We all wondered .
Next day in school we agreed to Jerry Cowan 's terms , and Jerry promised to bring the picture up to Uncle Alec 's the following afternoon .
We were all intensely excited Saturday morning .
To our dismay , it began to rain just before dinner .
`` What if Jerry does n't bring the picture to-day because of the rain ? ''
I suggested .
`` Never you fear , '' answered Felicity decidedly .
`` A Cowan would come through ANYTHING for fifty cents . ''
After dinner we all , without any verbal decision about it , washed our faces and combed our hair .
The girls put on their second best dresses , and we boys donned white collars .
We all had the unuttered feeling that we must do such honour to that Picture as we could .
Felicity and Dan began a small spat over something , but stopped at once when Cecily said severely , `` How DARE you quarrel when you are going to look at a picture of God to-day ? ''
Owing to the rain we could not foregather in the orchard , where we had meant to transact the business with Jerry .
We did not wish our grown-ups around at our great moment , so we betook ourselves to the loft of the granary in the spruce wood , from whose window we could see the main road and hail Jerry .
Sara Ray had joined us , very pale and nervous , having had , so it appeared , a difference of opinion with her mother about coming up the hill in the rain .
`` I 'm afraid I did very wrong to come against ma 's will , '' she said miserably , `` but I COULD N'T wait .
I wanted to see the picture as soon as you did . ''
We waited and watched at the window .
The valley was full of mist , and the rain was coming down in slanting lines over the tops of the spruces .
But as we waited the clouds broke away and the sun came out flashingly ; the drops on the spruce boughs glittered like diamonds .
`` I do n't believe Jerry can be coming , '' said Cecily in despair .
`` I suppose his mother must have thought it was dreadful , after all , to sell such a picture . ''
`` There he is now ! ''
cried Dan , waving excitedly from the window .
`` He 's carrying a fish-basket , '' said Felicity .
`` You surely do n't suppose he would bring THAT picture in a fish-basket ! ''
Jerry HAD brought it in a fish-basket , as appeared when he mounted the granary stairs shortly afterwards .
It was folded up in a newspaper packet on top of the dried herring with which the basket was filled .
We paid him his money , but we would not open the packet until he had gone .
`` Cecily , '' said Felicity in a hushed tone .
`` You are the best of us all .
YOU open the parcel . ''
`` Oh , I 'm no gooder than the rest of you , '' breathed Cecily , `` but I 'll open it if you like . ''
With trembling fingers Cecily opened the parcel .
We stood around , hardly breathing .
She unfolded it and held it up .
We saw it .
Suddenly Sara began to cry .
`` Oh , oh , oh , does God look like THAT ? ''
she wailed .
Felix and I spoke not .
Disappointment , and something worse , sealed our speech .
DID God look like that -- like that stern , angrily frowning old man with the tossing hair and beard of the wood-cut Cecily held .
`` I suppose He must , since that is His picture , '' said Dan miserably .
`` He looks awful cross , '' said Peter simply .
`` Oh , I wish we 'd never , never seen it , '' cried Cecily .
We all wished that -- too late .
Our curiosity had led us into some Holy of Holies , not to be profaned by human eyes , and this was our punishment .
`` I 've always had a feeling right along , '' wept Sara , `` that it was n't RIGHT to buy -- or LOOK AT -- God 's picture . ''
As we stood there wretchedly we heard flying feet below and a blithe voice calling , `` Where are you , children ? ''
The Story Girl had returned !
At any other moment we would have rushed to meet her in wild joy .
But now we were too crushed and miserable to move .
`` Whatever is the matter with you all ? ''
demanded the Story Girl , appearing at the top of the stairs .
`` What is Sara crying about ?
What have you got there ? ''
`` A picture of God , '' said Cecily with a sob in her voice , `` and oh , it is so dreadful and ugly .
Look ! ''
The Story Girl looked .
An expression of scorn came over her face .
`` Surely you do n't believe God looks like that , '' she said impatiently , while her fine eyes flashed .
`` He does n't -- He could n't .
He is wonderful and beautiful .
I 'm surprised at you .
THAT is nothing but the picture of a cross old man . ''
Hope sprang up in our hearts , although we were not wholly convinced .
`` I do n't know , '' said Dan dubiously .
`` It says under the picture ` God in the Garden of Eden . '
It 's PRINTED . ''
`` Well , I suppose that 's what the man who drew it thought God was like , '' answered the Story Girl carelessly .
`` But HE could n't have known any more than you do .
HE had never seen Him . ''
`` It 's all very well for you to say so , '' said Felicity , `` but YOU do n't know either .
I wish I could believe that is n't like God -- but I do n't know what to believe . ''
`` Well , if you wo n't believe me , I suppose you 'll believe the minister , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Go and ask him .
He 's in the house this very minute .
He came up with us in the buggy . ''
At any other time we would never have dared catechize the minister about anything .
But desperate cases call for desperate measures .
We drew straws to see who should go and do the asking , and the lot fell to Felix .
`` Better wait until Mr. Marwood leaves , and catch him in the lane , '' advised the Story Girl .
`` You 'll have a lot of grown-ups around you in the house . ''
Felix took her advice .
Mr. Marwood , presently walking benignantly along the lane , was confronted by a fat , small boy with a pale face but resolute eyes .
The rest of us remained in the background but within hearing .
`` Well , Felix , what is it ? ''
asked Mr. Marwood kindly .
`` Please , sir , does God really look like this ? ''
asked Felix , holding out the picture .
`` We hope He does n't -- but we want to know the truth , and that is why I 'm bothering you .
Please excuse us and tell me . ''
The minister looked at the picture .
A stern expression came into his gentle blue eyes and he got as near to frowning as it was possible for him to get .
`` Where did you get that thing ? ''
he asked .
THING !
We began to breathe easier .
`` We bought it from Jerry Cowan .
He found it in a red-covered history of the world .
It SAYS it 's God 's picture , '' said Felix .
`` It is nothing of the sort , '' said Mr. Marwood indignantly .
`` There is no such thing as a picture of God , Felix .
No human being knows what he looks like -- no human being CAN know .
We should not even try to think what He looks like .
But , Felix , you may be sure that God is infinitely more beautiful and loving and tender and kind than anything we can imagine of Him .
Never believe anything else , my boy .
As for this -- this SACRILEGE -- take it and burn it . ''
We did not know what a sacrilege meant , but we knew that Mr. Marwood had declared that the picture was not like God .
That was enough for us .
We felt as if a terrible weight had been lifted from our minds .
`` I could hardly believe the Story Girl , but of course the minister KNOWS , '' said Dan happily .
`` We 've lost fifty cents because of it , '' said Felicity gloomily .
We had lost something of infinitely more value than fifty cents , although we did not realize it just then .
The minister 's words had removed from our minds the bitter belief that God was like that picture ; but on something deeper and more enduring than mind an impression had been made that was never to be removed .
The mischief was done .
From that day to this the thought or the mention of God brings up before us involuntarily the vision of a stern , angry , old man .
Such was the price we were to pay for the indulgence of a curiosity which each of us , deep in our hearts , had , like Sara Ray , felt ought not to be gratified .
`` Mr. Marwood told me to burn it , '' said Felix .
`` It does n't seem reverent to do that , '' said Cecily .
`` Even if it is n't God 's picture , it has His name on it . ''
`` Bury it , '' said the Story Girl .
We did bury it after tea , in the depths of the spruce grove ; and then we went into the orchard .
It was so nice to have the Story Girl back again .
She had wreathed her hair with Canterbury Bells , and looked like the incarnation of rhyme and story and dream .
`` Canterbury Bells is a lovely name for a flower , is n't it ? ''
she said .
`` It makes you think of cathedrals and chimes , does n't it ?
Let 's go over to Uncle Stephen 's Walk , and sit on the branches of the big tree .
It 's too wet on the grass , and I know a story -- a TRUE story , about an old lady I saw in town at Aunt Louisa 's .
Such a dear old lady , with lovely silvery curls . ''
After the rain the air seemed dripping with odours in the warm west wind -- the tang of fir balsam , the spice of mint , the wild woodsiness of ferns , the aroma of grasses steeping in the sunshine , -- and with it all a breath of wild sweetness from far hill pastures .
Scattered through the grass in Uncle Stephen 's Walk , were blossoming pale , aerial flowers which had no name that we could ever discover .
Nobody seemed to know anything about them .
They had been there when Great-grandfather King bought the place .
I have never seen them elsewhere , or found them described in any floral catalogue .
We called them the White Ladies .
The Story Girl gave them the name .
She said they looked like the souls of good women who had had to suffer much and had been very patient .
They were wonderfully dainty , with a strange , faint , aromatic perfume which was only to be detected at a little distance and vanished if you bent over them .
They faded soon after they were plucked ; and , although strangers , greatly admiring them , often carried away roots and seeds , they could never be coaxed to grow elsewhere .
`` My story is about Mrs. Dunbar and the Captain of the FANNY , '' said the Story Girl , settling herself comfortably on a bough , with her brown head against a gnarled trunk .
`` It 's sad and beautiful -- and true .
I do love to tell stories that I know really happened .
Mrs. Dunbar lives next door to Aunt Louisa in town .
She is so sweet .
You would n't think to look at her that she had a tragedy in her life , but she has .
Aunt Louisa told me the tale .
It all happened long , long ago .
Interesting things like this all did happen long ago , it seems to me .
They never seem to happen now .
This was in ' 49 , when people were rushing to the gold fields in California .
It was just like a fever , Aunt Louisa says .
People took it , right here on the Island ; and a number of young men determined they would go to California .
`` It is easy to go to California now ; but it was a very different matter then .
There were no railroads across the land , as there are now , and if you wanted to go to California you had to go in a sailing vessel , all the way around Cape Horn .
It was a long and dangerous journey ; and sometimes it took over six months .
When you got there you had no way of sending word home again except by the same plan .
It might be over a year before your people at home heard a word about you -- and fancy what their feelings would be !
`` But these young men did n't think of these things ; they were led on by a golden vision .
They made all their arrangements , and they chartered the brig Fanny to take them to California .
`` The captain of the Fanny is the hero of my story .
His name was Alan Dunbar , and he was young and handsome .
Heroes always are , you know , but Aunt Louisa says he really was .
And he was in love -- wildly in love , -- with Margaret Grant .
Margaret was as beautiful as a dream , with soft blue eyes and clouds of golden hair ; and she loved Alan Dunbar just as much as he loved her .
But her parents were bitterly opposed to him , and they had forbidden Margaret to see him or speak to him .
They had n't anything against him as a MAN , but they did n't want her to throw herself away on a sailor .
`` Well , when Alan Dunbar knew that he must go to California in the Fanny he was in despair .
He felt that he could NEVER go so far away for so long and leave his Margaret behind .
And Margaret felt that she could never let him go .
I know EXACTLY how she felt . ''
`` How can you know ? ''
interrupted Peter suddenly .
`` You ai n't old enough to have a beau .
How can you know ? ''
The Story Girl looked at Peter with a frown .
She did not like to be interrupted when telling a story .
`` Those are not things one KNOWS about , '' she said with dignity .
`` One FEELS about them . ''
Peter , crushed but not convinced , subsided , and the Story Girl went on .
`` Finally , Margaret ran away with Alan , and they were married in Charlottetown .
Alan intended to take his wife with him to California in the Fanny .
If it was a hard journey for a man it was harder still for a woman , but Margaret would have dared anything for Alan 's sake .
They had three days -- ONLY three days -- of happiness , and then the blow fell .
The crew and the passengers of the Fanny refused to let Captain Dunbar take his wife with him .
They told him he must leave her behind .
And all his prayers were of no avail .
They say he stood on the deck of the Fanny and pleaded with the men while the tears ran down his face ; but they would not yield , and he had to leave Margaret behind .
Oh , what a parting it was ! ''
There was heartbreak in the Story Girl 's voice and tears came into our eyes .
There , in the green bower of Uncle Stephen 's Walk , we cried over the pathos of a parting whose anguish had been stilled for many years .
`` When it was all over , Margaret 's father and mother forgave her , and she went back home to wait -- to WAIT .
Oh , it is so dreadful just to WAIT , and do nothing else .
Margaret waited for nearly a year .
How long it must have seemed to her !
And at last there came a letter -- but not from Alan .
Alan was DEAD .
He had died in California and had been buried there .
While Margaret had been thinking of him and longing for him and praying for him he had been lying in his lonely , faraway grave . ''
Cecily sprang up , shaking with sobs .
`` Oh , do n't -- do n't go on , '' she implored .
`` I CA N'T bear any more . ''
`` There is no more , '' said the Story Girl .
`` That was the end of it -- the end of everything for Margaret .
It did n't kill HER , but her heart died . ''
`` I just wish I 'd hold of those fellows who would n't let the Captain take his wife , '' said Peter savagely .
`` Well , it was awful said , '' said Felicity , wiping her eyes .
`` But it was long ago and we ca n't do any good by crying over it now .
Let us go and get something to eat .
I made some nice little rhubarb tarts this morning . ''
We went .
In spite of new disappointments and old heartbreaks we had appetites .
And Felicity did make scrumptious rhubarb tarts !
CHAPTER IX .
MAGIC SEED When the time came to hand in our collections for the library fund Peter had the largest -- three dollars .
Felicity was a good second with two and a half .
This was simply because the hens had laid so well .
`` If you 'd had to pay father for all the extra handfuls of wheat you 've fed to those hens , Miss Felicity , you would n't have so much , '' said Dan spitefully .
`` I did n't , '' said Felicity indignantly .
`` Look how Aunt Olivia 's hens laid , too , and she fed them herself just the same as usual . ''
`` Never mind , '' said Cecily , `` we have all got something to give .
If you were like poor Sara Ray , and had n't been able to collect anything , you might feel bad . ''
But Sara Ray HAD something to give .
She came up the hill after tea , all radiant .
When Sara Ray smiled -- and she did not waste her smiles -- she was rather pretty in a plaintive , apologetic way .
A dimple or two came into sight , and she had very nice teeth -- small and white , like the traditional row of pearls .
`` Oh , just look , '' she said .
`` Here are three dollars -- and I 'm going to give it all to the library fund .
I had a letter to-day from Uncle Arthur in Winnipeg , and he sent me three dollars .
He said I was to use it ANY way I liked , so ma could n't refuse to let me give it to the fund .
She thinks it 's an awful waste , but she always goes by what Uncle Arthur says .
Oh , I 've prayed so hard that some money might come some way , and now it has .
See what praying does ! ''
I was very much afraid that we did not rejoice quite as unselfishly in Sara 's good fortune as we should have done .
WE had earned our contributions by the sweat of our brow , or by the scarcely less disagreeable method of `` begging . ''
And Sara 's had as good as descended upon her out of the skies , as much like a miracle as anything you could imagine .
`` She prayed for it , you know , '' said Felix , after Sara had gone home .
`` That 's too easy a way of earning money , '' grumbled Peter resentfully .
`` If the rest of us had just set down and done nothing , only prayed , how much do you s ` pose we 'd have ?
It do n't seem fair to me . ''
`` Oh , well , it 's different with Sara , '' said Dan .
`` We COULD earn money and she COULD N'T .
You see ?
But come on down to the orchard .
The Story Girl had a letter from her father to-day and she 's going to read it to us . ''
We went promptly .
A letter from the Story Girl 's father was always an event ; and to hear her read it was almost as good as hearing her tell a story .
Before coming to Carlisle , Uncle Blair Stanley had been a mere name to us .
Now he was a personality .
His letters to the Story Girl , the pictures and sketches he sent her , her adoring and frequent mention of him , all combined to make him very real to us .
We FELT then , what we did not understand till later years , that our grown-up relatives did not altogether admire or approve of Uncle Blair .
He belonged to a different world from theirs .
They had never known him very intimately or understood him .
I realize now that Uncle Blair was a bit of a Bohemian -- a respectable sort of tramp .
Had he been a poor man he might have been a more successful artist .
But he had a small fortune of his own and , lacking the spur of necessity , or of disquieting ambition , he remained little more than a clever amateur .
Once in a while he painted a picture which showed what he could do ; but for the rest , he was satisfied to wander over the world , light-hearted and content .
We knew that the Story Girl was thought to resemble him strongly in appearance and temperament , but she had far more fire and intensity and strength of will -- her inheritance from King and Ward .
She would never be satisfied as a dabbler ; whatever her future career should be , into it she would throw all her powers of mind and heart and soul .
But Uncle Blair could do at least one thing surpassingly well .
He could write letters .
Such letters !
By contrast , Felix and I were secretly ashamed of father 's epistles .
Father could talk well but , as Felix said , he could n't write worth a cent .
The letters we had received from him since his arrival in Rio de Janeiro were mere scrawls , telling us to be good boys and not trouble Aunt Janet , incidentally adding that he was well and lonesome .
Felix and I were always glad to get his letters , but we never read them aloud to an admiring circle in the orchard .
Uncle Blair was spending the summer in Switzerland ; and the letter the Story Girl read to us , among the fair , frail White Ladies of the Walk , where the west wind came now with a sigh , and again with a rush , and then brushed our faces as softly as the down of a thistle , was full of the glamour of mountain-rimmed lakes , and purple chalets , and `` snowy summits old in story . ''
We climbed Mount Blanc , saw the Jungfrau soaring into cloudland , and walked among the gloomy pillars of Bonnivard 's prison .
Finally , the Story Girl told us the tale of the Prisoner of Chillon , in words that were Byron 's , but in a voice that was all her own .
`` It must be splendid to go to Europe , '' sighed Cecily longingly .
`` I am going some day , '' said the Story Girl airily .
We looked at her with a slightly incredulous awe .
To us , in those years , Europe seemed almost as remote and unreachable as the moon .
It was hard to believe that one of US should ever go there .
But Aunt Julia had gone -- and SHE had been brought up in Carlisle on this very farm .
So it was possible that the Story Girl might go too .
`` What will you do there ? ''
asked Peter practically .
`` I shall learn how to tell stories to all the world , '' said the Story Girl dreamily .
It was a lovely , golden-brown evening ; the orchard , and the farm-lands beyond , were full of ruby lights and kissing shadows .
Over in the east , above the Awkward Man 's house , the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess floated across the sky , presently turning as rosy as if bedewed with her heart 's blood .
We sat there and talked until the first star lighted a white taper over the beech hill .
Then I remembered that I had forgotten to take my dose of magic seed , and I hastened to do it , although I was beginning to lose faith in it .
I had not grown a single bit , by the merciless testimony of the hall door .
I took the box of seed out of my trunk in the twilit room and swallowed the decreed pinch .
As I did so , Dan 's voice rang out behind me .
`` Beverley King , what have you got there ? ''
I thrust the box hastily into my trunk and confronted Dan .
`` None of your business , '' I said defiantly .
`` Yes , 't is . ''
Dan was too much in earnest to resent my blunt speech .
`` Look here , Bev , is that magic seed ?
And did you get it from Billy Robinson ? ''
Dan and I looked at each other , suspicion dawning in our eyes .
`` What do you know about Billy Robinson and his magic seed ? ''
I demanded .
`` Just this .
I bought a box from him for -- for -- something .
He said he was n't going to sell any of it to anybody else .
Did he sell any to you ? ''
`` Yes , he did , '' I said in disgust -- for I was beginning to understand that Billy and his magic seed were arrant frauds .
`` What for ?
YOUR mouth is a decent size , '' said Dan .
`` Mouth ?
It had nothing to do with my mouth !
He said it would make me grow tall .
And it has n't -- not an inch !
I do n't see what you wanted it for !
You are tall enough . ''
`` I got it for my mouth , '' said Dan with a shame-faced grin .
`` The girls in school laugh at it so .
Kate Marr says it 's like a gash in a pie .
Billy said that seed would shrink it for sure . ''
Well , there it was !
Billy had deceived us both .
Nor were we the only victims .
We did not find the whole story out at once .
Indeed , the summer was almost over before , in one way or another , the full measure of that shameless Billy Robinson 's iniquity was revealed to us .
But I shall anticipate the successive relations in this chapter .
Every pupil of Carlisle school , so it eventually appeared , had bought magic seed , under solemn promise of secrecy .
Felix had believed blissfully that it would make him thin .
Cecily 's hair was to become naturally curly , and Sara Ray was not to be afraid of Peg Bowen any more .
It was to make Felicity as clever as the Story Girl and it was to make the Story Girl as good a cook as Felicity .
What Peter had bought magic seed for remained a secret longer than any of the others .
Finally -- it was the night before what we expected would be the Judgment Day -- he confessed to me that he had taken it to make Felicity fond of him .
Skilfully indeed had that astute Billy played on our respective weaknesses .
The keenest edge to our humiliation was given by the discovery that the magic seed was nothing more or less than caraway , which grew in abundance at Billy Robinson 's uncle 's in Markdale .
Peg Bowen had had nothing to do with it .
Well , we had all been badly hoaxed .
But we did not trumpet our wrongs abroad .
We did not even call Billy to account .
We thought that least said was soonest mended in such a matter .
We went very softly indeed , lest the grown-ups , especially that terrible Uncle Roger , should hear of it .
`` We should have known better than to trust Billy Robinson , '' said Felicity , summing up the case one evening when all had been made known .
`` After all , what could you expect from a pig but a grunt ? ''
We were not surprised to find that Billy Robinson 's contribution to the library fund was the largest handed in by any of the scholars .
Cecily said she did n't envy him his conscience .
But I am afraid she measured his conscience by her own .
I doubt very much if Billy 's troubled him at all .
CHAPTER X .
A DAUGHTER OF EVE `` I hate the thought of growing up , '' said the Story Girl reflectively , `` because I can never go barefooted then , and nobody will ever see what beautiful feet I have . ''
She was sitting , the July sunlight , on the ledge of the open hayloft window in Uncle Roger 's big barn ; and the bare feet below her print skirt WERE beautiful .
They were slender and shapely and satin smooth with arched insteps , the daintiest of toes , and nails like pink shells .
We were all the hayloft .
The Story Girl had been telling us a tale `` Of old , unhappy , far-off things , And battles long ago . ''
Felicity and Cecily were curled up in a corner , and we boys sprawled idly on the fragrant , sun-warm heaps .
We had `` stowed '' the hay in the loft that morning for Uncle Roger , so we felt that we had earned the right to loll on our sweet-smelling couch .
Haylofts are delicious places , with just enough of shadow and soft , uncertain noises to give an agreeable tang of mystery .
The swallows flew in and out of their nest above our heads , and whenever a sunbeam fell through a chink the air swarmed with golden dust .
Outside of the loft was a vast , sunshiny gulf of blue sky and mellow air , wherein floated argosies of fluffy cloud , and airy tops of maple and spruce .
Pat was with us , of course , prowling about stealthily , or making frantic , bootless leaps at the swallows .
A cat in a hayloft is a beautiful example of the eternal fitness of things .
We had not heard of this fitness then , but we all felt that Paddy was in his own place in a hayloft .
`` I think it is very vain to talk about anything you have yourself being beautiful , '' said Felicity .
`` I am not a bit vain , '' said the Story Girl , with entire truthfulness .
`` It is not vanity to know your own good points .
It would just be stupidity if you did n't .
It 's only vanity when you get puffed up about them .
I am not a bit pretty .
My only good points are my hair and eyes and feet .
So I think it 's real mean that one of them has to be covered up the most of the time .
I 'm always glad when it gets warm enough to go barefooted .
But , when I grow up they 'll have to covered all the time .
It IS mean . ''
`` You 'll have to put your shoes and stockings on when you go to the magic lantern show to-night , '' said Felicity in a tone of satisfaction .
`` I do n't know that .
I 'm thinking of going barefooted . ''
`` Oh , you would n't !
Sara Stanley , you 're not in earnest ! ''
exclaimed Felicity , her blue eyes filling with horror .
The Story Girl winked with the side of her face next to Felix and me , but the side next the girls changed not a muscle .
She dearly loved to `` take a rise '' out of Felicity now and then .
`` Indeed , I would if I just made up my mind to .
Why not ?
Why not bare feet -- if they 're clean -- as well as bare hands and face ? ''
`` Oh , you would n't !
It would be such a disgrace ! ''
said poor Felicity in real distress .
`` We went to school barefooted all June , '' argued that wicked Story Girl .
`` What is the difference between going to the schoolhouse barefooted in the daytime and going in the evening ? ''
`` Oh , there 's EVERY difference .
I ca n't just explain it -- but every one KNOWS there is a difference .
You know it yourself .
Oh , PLEASE , do n't do such a thing , Sara . ''
`` Well , I wo n't , just to oblige you , '' said the Story Girl , who would have died the death before she would have gone to a `` public meeting '' barefooted .
We were all rather excited over the magic lantern show which an itinerant lecturer was to give in the schoolhouse that evening .
Even Felix and I , who had seen such shows galore , were interested , and the rest were quite wild .
There had never been such a thing in Carlisle before .
We were all going , Peter included .
Peter went everywhere with us now .
He was a regular attendant at church and Sunday School , where his behaviour was as irreproachable as if he had been `` raised '' in the caste of Vere de Vere .
It was feather in the Story Girl 's cap , for she took all the credit of having started Peter on the right road .
Felicity was resigned , although the fatal patch on Peter 's best trousers was still an eyesore to her .
She declared she never got any good of the singing , because Peter stood up then and every one could see the patch .
Mrs. James Clark , whose pew was behind ours , never took her eye off it -- or so Felicity averred .
But Peter 's stockings were always darned .
Aunt Olivia had seen to that , ever since she heard of Peter 's singular device regarding them on his first Sunday .
She had also given Peter a Bible , of which he was so proud that he hated to use it lest he should soil it .
`` I think I 'll wrap it up and keep it in my box , '' he said .
`` I 've an old Bible of Aunt Jane 's at home that I can use .
I s ` pose it 's just the same , even if it is old , is n't it ? ''
`` Oh , yes , '' Cecily had assured him .
`` The Bible is always the same . ''
`` I thought maybe they 'd got some new improvements on it since Aunt Jane 's day , '' said Peter , relieved .
`` Sara Ray is coming along the lane , and she 's crying , '' announced Dan , who was peering out of a knot-hole on the opposite side of the loft .
`` Sara Ray is crying half her time , '' said Cecily impatiently .
`` I 'm sure she cries a quartful of tears a month .
There are times when you ca n't help crying .
But I hide then .
Sara just goes and cries in public . ''
The lachrymose Sara presently joined us and we discovered the cause of her tears to be the doleful fact that her mother had forbidden her to go to the magic lantern show that night .
We all showed the sympathy we felt .
`` She SAID yesterday you could go , '' said the Story Girl indignantly .
`` Why has she changed her mind ? ''
`` Because of the measles in Markdale , '' sobbed Sara .
`` She says Markdale is full of them , and there 'll be sure to be some of the Markdale people at the show .
So I 'm not to go .
And I 've never seen a magic lantern -- I 've never seen ANYTHING . ''
`` I do n't believe there 's any danger of catching measles , '' said Felicity .
`` If there was we would n't be allowed to go . ''
`` I wish I COULD get the measles , '' said Sara defiantly .
`` Maybe I 'd be of some importance to ma then . ''
`` Suppose Cecily goes down with you and coaxes your mother , '' suggested the Story Girl .
`` Perhaps she 'd let you go then .
She likes Cecily .
She does n't like either Felicity or me , so it would only make matters worse for us to try . ''
`` Ma 's gone to town -- pa and her went this afternoon -- and they 're not coming back till to-morrow .
There 's nobody home but Judy Pineau and me . ''
`` Then , '' said the Story Girl , `` why do n't you just go to the show anyhow ?
Your mother wo n't ever know , if you coax Judy to hold her tongue . ''
`` Oh , but that 's wrong , '' said Felicity .
`` You should n't put Sara up to disobeying her mother . ''
Now , Felicity for once was undoubtedly right .
The Story Girl 's suggestion WAS wrong ; and if it had been Cecily who protested , the Story Girl would probably have listened to her , and proceeded no further in the matter .
But Felicity was one of those unfortunate people whose protests against wrong-doing serve only to drive the wrong-doer further on her sinful way .
The Story Girl resented Felicity 's superior tone , and proceeded to tempt Sara in right good earnest .
The rest of us held our tongues .
It was , we told ourselves , Sara 's own lookout .
`` I have a good mind to do it , '' said Sara .
`` but I ca n't get my good clothes ; they 're in the spare room , and ma locked the door , for fear somebody would get at the fruit cake .
I have n't a single thing to wear , except my school gingham . ''
`` Well , that 's new and pretty , '' said the Story Girl .
`` We 'll lend you some things .
You can have my lace collar .
That 'll make the gingham quite elegant .
And Cecily will lend you her second best hat . ''
`` But I 've no shoes or stockings .
They 're locked up too . ''
`` You can have a pair of mine , '' said Felicity , who probably thought that since Sara was certain to yield to temptation , she might as well be garbed decently for her transgression .
Sara did yield .
When the Story Girl 's voice entreated it was not easy to resist its temptation , even if you wanted to .
That evening , when we started for the schoolhouse , Sara Ray was among us , decked out in borrowed plumes .
`` Suppose she DOES catch the measles ? ''
Felicity said aside .
`` I do n't believe there 'll be anybody there from Markdale .
The lecturer is going to Markdale next week .
They 'll wait for that , '' said the Story Girl airily .
It was a cool , dewy evening , and we walked down the long , red hill in the highest of spirits .
Over a valley filled with beech and spruce was a sunset afterglow -- creamy yellow and a hue that was not so much red as the dream of red , with a young moon swung low in it .
The air was sweet with the breath of mown hayfields where swaths of clover had been steeping in the sun .
Wild roses grew pinkly along the fences , and the roadsides were star-dusted with buttercups .
Those of us who had nothing the matter with our consciences enjoyed our walk to the little whitewashed schoolhouse in the valley .
Felicity and Cecily were void of offence towards all men .
The Story Girl walked uprightly like an incarnate flame in her crimson silk .
Her pretty feet were hidden in the tan-coloured , buttoned Paris boots which were the secret envy of every school girl in Carlisle .
But Sara Ray was not happy .
Her face was so melancholy that the Story Girl lost patience with her .
The Story Girl herself was not altogether at ease .
Probably her own conscience was troubling her .
But admit it she would not .
`` Now , Sara , '' she said , `` you just take my advice and go into this with all your heart if you go at all .
Never mind if it is bad .
There 's no use being naughty if you spoil your fun by wishing all the time you were good .
You can repent afterwards , but there is no use in mixing the two things together . ''
`` I 'm not repenting , '' protested Sara .
`` I 'm only scared of ma finding it out . ''
`` Oh ! ''
The Story Girl 's voice expressed her scorn .
For remorse she had understanding and sympathy ; but fear of her fellow creatures was something unknown to her .
`` Did n't Judy Pineau promise you solemnly she would n't tell ? ''
`` Yes ; but maybe some one who sees me there will mention it to ma . ''
`` Well , if you 're so scared you 'd better not go .
It is n't too late .
Here 's your own gate , '' said Cecily .
But Sara could not give up the delights of the show .
So she walked on , a small , miserable testimony that the way of the transgressor is never easy , even when said transgressor is only a damsel of eleven .
The magic lantern show was a splendid one .
The views were good and the lecturer witty .
We repeated his jokes to each other all the way home .
Sara , who had not enjoyed the exhibition at all , seemed to feel more cheerful when it was over and she was going home .
The Story Girl on the contrary was gloomy .
`` There WERE Markdale people there , '' she confided to me , `` and the Williamsons live next door to the Cowans , who have measles .
I wish I 'd never egged Sara on to going -- but do n't tell Felicity I said so .
If Sara Ray had really enjoyed the show I would n't mind .
But she did n't .
I could see that .
So I 've done wrong and made her do wrong -- and there 's nothing to show for it . ''
The night was scented and mysterious .
The wind was playing an eerie fleshless melody in the reeds of the brook hollow .
The sky was dark and starry , and across it the Milky Way flung its shimmering misty ribbons .
`` There 's four hundred million stars in the Milky Way , '' quoth Peter , who frequently astonished us by knowing more than any hired boy could be expected to .
He had a retentive memory , and never forgot anything he heard or read .
The few books left to him by his oft-referred-to Aunt Jane had stocked his mind with a miscellaneous information which sometimes made Felix and me doubt if we knew as much as Peter after all .
Felicity was so impressed by his knowledge of astronomy that she dropped back from the other girls and walked beside him .
She had not done so before because he was barefooted .
It was permissible for hired boys to go to public meetings -- when not held in the church -- with bare feet , and no particular disgrace attached to it .
But Felicity would not walk with a barefooted companion .
It was dark now , so nobody would notice his feet .
`` I know a story about the Milky Way , '' said the Story Girl , brightening up .
`` I read it in a book of Aunt Louisa 's in town , and I learned it off by heart .
Once there were two archangels in heaven , named Zerah and Zulamith -- '' `` Have angels names -- same as people ? ''
interrupted Peter .
`` Yes , of course .
They MUST have .
They 'd be all mixed up if they had n't . ''
`` And when I 'm an angel -- if I ever get to be one -- will my name still be Peter ? ''
`` No .
You 'll have a new name up there , '' said Cecily gently .
`` It says so in the Bible . ''
`` Well , I 'm glad of that .
Peter would be such a funny name for an angel .
And what is the difference between angels and archangels ? ''
`` Oh , archangels are angels that have been angels so long that they 've had time to grow better and brighter and more beautiful than newer angels , '' said the Story Girl , who probably made that explanation up on the spur of the moment , just to pacify Peter .
`` How long does it take for an angel to grow into an archangel ? ''
pursued Peter .
`` Oh , I do n't know .
Millions of years likely .
And even then I do n't suppose ALL the angels do .
A good many of them must just stay plain angels , I expect . ''
`` I shall be satisfied just to be a plain angel , '' said Felicity modestly .
`` Oh , see here , if you 're going to interrupt and argue over everything , we 'll never get the story told , '' said Felix .
`` Dry up , all of you , and let the Story Girl go on . ''
We dried up , and the Story Girl went on .
`` Zerah and Zulamith loved each other , just as mortals love , and this is forbidden by the laws of the Almighty .
And because Zerah and Zulamith had so broken God 's law they were banished from His presence to the uttermost bounds of the universe .
If they had been banished TOGETHER it would have been no punishment ; so Zerah was exiled to a star on one side of the universe , and Zulamith was sent to a star on the other side of the universe ; and between them was a fathomless abyss which thought itself could not cross .
Only one thing could cross it -- and that was love .
Zulamith yearned for Zerah with such fidelity and longing that he began to build up a bridge of light from his star ; and Zerah , not knowing this , but loving and longing for him , began to build a similar bridge of light from her star .
For a thousand thousand years they both built the bridge of light , and at last they met and sprang into each other 's arms .
Their toil and loneliness and suffering were all over and forgotten , and the bridge they had built spanned the gulf between their stars of exile .
`` Now , when the other archangels saw what had been done they flew in fear and anger to God 's white throne , and cried to Him , '' ` See what these rebellious ones have done !
They have built them a bridge of light across the universe , and set Thy decree of separation at naught .
Do Thou , then , stretch forth Thine arm and destroy their impious work . '
`` They ceased -- and all heaven was hushed .
Through the silence sounded the voice of the Almighty . ''
` Nay , ' He said , ` whatsoever in my universe true love hath builded not even the Almighty can destroy .
The bridge must stand forever . '
`` And , '' concluded the Story Girl , her face upturned to the sky and her big eyes filled with starlight , `` it stands still .
That bridge is the Milky Way . ''
`` What a lovely story , '' sighed Sara Ray , who had been wooed to a temporary forgetfulness of her woes by its charm .
The rest of us came back to earth , feeling that we had been wandering among the hosts of heaven .
We were not old enough to appreciate fully the wonderful meaning of the legend ; but we felt its beauty and its appeal .
To us forevermore the Milky Way would be , not Peter 's overwhelming garland of suns , but the lucent bridge , love-created , on which the banished archangels crossed from star to star .
We had to go up Sara Ray 's lane with her to her very door , for she was afraid Peg Bowen would catch her if she went alone .
Then the Story Girl and I walked up the hill together .
Peter and Felicity lagged behind .
Cecily and Dan and Felix were walking before us , hand in hand , singing a hymn .
Cecily had a very sweet voice , and I listened in delight .
But the Story Girl sighed .
`` What if Sara does take the measles ? ''
she asked miserably .
`` Everyone has to have the measles sometime , '' I said comfortingly , `` and the younger you are the better . ''
CHAPTER XI .
THE STORY GIRL DOES PENANCE Ten days later , Aunt Olivia and Uncle Roger went to town one evening , to remain over night , and the next day .
Peter and the Story Girl were to stay at Uncle Alec 's during their absence .
We were in the orchard at sunset , listening to the story of King Cophetua and the beggar maid -- all of us , except Peter , who was hoeing turnips , and Felicity , who had gone down the hill on an errand to Mrs. Ray .
The Story Girl impersonated the beggar maid so vividly , and with such an illusion of beauty , that we did not wonder in the least at the king 's love for her .
I had read the story before , and it had been my opinion that it was `` rot . ''
No king , I felt certain , would ever marry a beggar maid when he had princesses galore from whom to choose .
But now I understood it all .
When Felicity returned we concluded from her expression that she had news .
And she had .
`` Sara is real sick , '' she said , with regret , and something that was not regret mingled in her voice .
`` She has a cold and sore throat , and she is feverish .
Mrs. Ray says if she is n't better by the morning she 's going to send for the doctor .
AND SHE IS AFRAID IT 'S THE MEASLES . ''
Felicity flung the last sentence at the Story Girl , who turned very pale .
`` Oh , do you suppose she caught them at the magic lantern show ? ''
she said miserably .
`` Where else could she have caught them ? ''
said Felicity mercilessly .
`` I did n't see her , of course -- Mrs. Ray met me at the door and told me not to come in .
But Mrs. Ray says the measles always go awful hard with the Rays -- if they do n't die completely of them it leaves them deaf or half blind , or something like that .
Of course , '' added Felicity , her heart melting at sight of the misery in the Story Girl 's piteous eyes , `` Mrs. Ray always looks on the dark side , and it may not be the measles Sara has after all . ''
But Felicity had done her work too thoroughly .
The Story Girl was not to be comforted .
`` I 'd give anything if I 'd never put Sara up to going to that show , '' she said .
`` It 's all my fault -- but the punishment falls on Sara , and that is n't fair .
I 'd go this minute and confess the whole thing to Mrs. Ray ; but if I did it might get Sara into more trouble , and I must n't do that .
I sha 'n' t sleep a wink to-night . ''
I do n't think she did .
She looked very pale and woebegone when she came down to breakfast .
But , for all that , there was a certain exhilaration about her .
`` I 'm going to do penance all day for coaxing Sara to disobey her mother , '' she announced with chastened triumph .
`` Penance ? ''
we murmured in bewilderment .
`` Yes .
I 'm going to deny myself everything I like , and do everything I can think of that I do n't like , just to punish myself for being so wicked .
And if any of you think of anything I do n't , just mention it to me .
I thought it out last night .
Maybe Sara wo n't be so very sick if God sees I 'm truly sorry . ''
`` He can see it anyhow , without you 're doing anything , '' said Cecily .
`` Well , my conscience will feel better . ''
`` I do n't believe Presbyterians ever do penance , '' said Felicity dubiously .
`` I never heard of one doing it . ''
But the rest of us rather looked with favour on the Story Girl 's idea .
We felt sure that she would do penance as picturesquely and thoroughly as she did everything else .
`` You might put peas in your shoes , you know , '' suggested Peter .
`` The very thing !
I never thought of that .
I 'll get some after breakfast .
I 'm not going to eat a single thing all day , except bread and water -- and not much of that ! ''
This , we felt , was a heroic measure indeed .
To sit down to one of Aunt Janet 's meals , in ordinary health and appetite , and eat nothing but bread and water -- that would be penance with a vengeance !
We felt WE could never do it .
But the Story Girl did it .
We admired and pitied her .
But now I do not think that she either needed our pity or deserved our admiration .
Her ascetic fare was really sweeter to her than honey of Hymettus .
She was , though quite unconsciously , acting a part , and tasting all the subtle joy of the artist , which is so much more exquisite than any material pleasure .
Aunt Janet , of course , noticed the Story Girl 's abstinence and asked if she was sick .
`` No .
I am just doing penance , Aunt Janet , for a sin I committed .
I ca n't confess it , because that would bring trouble on another person .
So I 'm going to do penance all day .
You do n't mind , do you ? ''
Aunt Janet was in a very good humour that morning , so she merely laughed .
`` Not if you do n't go too far with your nonsense , '' she said tolerantly .
`` Thank you .
And will you give me a handful of hard peas after breakfast , Aunt Janet ?
I want to put them in my shoes . ''
`` There is n't any ; I used the last in the soup yesterday . ''
`` Oh ! ''
The Story Girl was much disappointed .
`` Then I suppose I 'll have to do without .
The new peas would n't hurt enough .
They 're so soft they 'd just squash flat . ''
`` I 'll tell you , '' said Peter , `` I 'll pick up a lot of those little round pebbles on Mr. King 's front walk .
They 'll be just as good as peas . ''
`` You 'll do nothing of the sort , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` Sara must not do penance in that way .
She would wear holes in her stockings , and might seriously bruise her feet . ''
`` What would you say if I took a whip and whipped my bare shoulders till the blood came ? ''
demanded the Story Girl aggrieved .
`` I would n't SAY anything , '' retorted Aunt Janet .
`` I 'd simply turn you over my knee and give you a sound , solid spanking , Miss Sara .
You 'd find that penance enough . ''
The Story Girl was crimson with indignation .
To have such a remark made to you -- when you were fourteen and a half -- and before the boys , too !
Really , Aunt Janet could be very dreadful .
It was vacation , and there was not much to do that day ; we were soon free to seek the orchard .
But the Story Girl would not come .
She had seated herself in the darkest , hottest corner of the kitchen , with a piece of old cotton in her hand .
`` I am not going to play to-day , '' she said , `` and I 'm not going to tell a single story .
Aunt Janet wo n't let me put pebbles in my shoes , but I 've put a thistle next my skin on my back and it sticks into me if I lean back the least bit .
And I 'm going to work buttonholes all over this cotton .
I hate working buttonholes worse than anything in the world , so I 'm going to work them all day . ''
`` What 's the good of working buttonholes on an old rag ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` It is n't any good .
The beauty of penance is that it makes you feel uncomfortable .
So it does n't matter what you do , whether it 's useful or not , so long as it 's nasty .
Oh , I wonder how Sara is this morning . ''
`` Mother 's going down this afternoon , '' said Felicity .
`` She says none of us must go near the place till we know whether it is the measles or not . ''
`` I 've thought of a great penance , '' said Cecily eagerly .
`` Do n't go to the missionary meeting to-night . ''
The Story Girl looked piteous .
`` I thought of that myself -- but I CA N'T stay home , Cecily .
It would be more than flesh and blood could endure .
I MUST hear that missionary speak .
They say he was all but eaten by cannibals once .
Just think how many new stories I 'd have to tell after I 'd heard him !
No , I must go , but I 'll tell you what I 'll do .
I 'll wear my school dress and hat .
THAT will be penance .
Felicity , when you set the table for dinner , put the broken-handled knife for me .
I hate it so .
And I 'm going to take a dose of Mexican Tea every two hours .
It 's such dreadful tasting stuff -- but it 's a good blood purifier , so Aunt Janet ca n't object to it . ''
The Story Girl carried out her self-imposed penance fully .
All day she sat in the kitchen and worked buttonholes , subsisting on bread and water and Mexican Tea .
Felicity did a mean thing .
She went to work and made little raisin pies , right there in the kitchen before the Story Girl .
The smell of raisin pies is something to tempt an anchorite ; and the Story Girl was exceedingly fond of them .
Felicity ate two in her very presence , and then brought the rest out to us in the orchard .
The Story Girl could see us through the window , carousing without stint on raisin pies and Uncle Edward 's cherries .
But she worked on at her buttonholes .
She would not look at the exciting serial in the new magazine Dan brought home from the post-office , neither would she open a letter from her father .
Pat came over , but his most seductive purrs won no notice from his mistress , who refused herself the pleasure of even patting him .
Aunt Janet could not go down the hill in the afternoon to find out how Sara was because company came to tea -- the Millwards from Markdale .
Mr. Millward was a doctor , and Mrs. Millward was a B.A. Aunt Janet was very desirous that everything should be as nice as possible , and we were all sent to our rooms before tea to wash and dress up .
The Story Girl slipped over home , and when she came back we gasped .
She had combed her hair out straight , and braided it in a tight , kinky , pudgy braid ; and she wore an old dress of faded print , with holes in the elbows and ragged flounces , which was much too short for her .
`` Sara Stanley , have you taken leave of your senses ? ''
demanded Aunt Janet .
`` What do you mean by putting on such a rig !
Do n't you know I have company to tea ? ''
`` Yes , and that is just why I put it on , Aunt Janet .
I want to mortify the flesh -- '' `` I 'll ` mortify ' you , if I catch you showing yourself to the Millwards like that , my girl !
Go right home and dress yourself decently -- or eat your supper in the kitchen . ''
The Story Girl chose the latter alternative .
She was highly indignant .
I verily believe that to sit at the dining-room table , in that shabby , outgrown dress , conscious of looking her ugliest , and eating only bread and water before the critical Millwards would have been positive bliss to her .
When we went to the missionary meeting that evening , the Story Girl wore her school dress and hat , while Felicity and Cecily were in their pretty muslins .
And she had tied her hair with a snuff-brown ribbon which was very unbecoming to her .
The first person we saw in the church porch was Mrs. Ray .
She told us that Sara had nothing worse than a feverish cold .
The missionary had at least seven happy listeners that night .
We were all glad that Sara did not have measles , and the Story Girl was radiant .
`` Now you see all your penance was wasted , '' said Felicity , as we walked home , keeping close together because of the rumour that Peg Bowen was abroad .
`` Oh , I do n't know .
I feel better since I punished myself .
But I 'm going to make up for it to-morrow , '' said the Story Girl energetically .
`` In fact , I 'll begin to-night .
I 'm going to the pantry as soon as I get home , and I 'll read father 's letter before I go to bed .
Was n't the missionary splendid ?
That cannibal story was simply grand .
I tried to remember every word , so that I can tell it just as he told it .
Missionaries are such noble people . ''
`` I 'd like to be a missionary and have adventures like that , '' said Felix .
`` It would be all right if you could be sure the cannibals would be interrupted in the nick of time as his were , '' said Dan .
`` But sposen they were n't ? ''
`` Nothing would prevent cannibals from eating Felix if they once caught him , '' giggled Felicity .
`` He 's so nice and fat . ''
I am sure Felix felt very unlike a missionary at that precise moment .
`` I 'm going to put two cents more a week in my missionary box than I 've been doing , '' said Cecily determinedly .
Two cents more a week out of Cecily 's egg money , meant something of a sacrifice .
It inspired the rest of us .
We all decided to increase our weekly contribution by a cent or so .
And Peter , who had had no missionary box at all , up to this time , determined to start one .
`` I do n't seem to be able to feel as int ` rested in missionaries as you folks do , '' he said , `` but maybe if I begin to give something I 'll get int ` rested .
I 'll want to know how my money 's being spent .
I wo n't be able to give much .
When your father 's run away , and your mother goes out washing , and you 're only old enough to get fifty cents a week , you ca n't give much to the heathen .
But I 'll do the best I can .
My Aunt Jane was fond of missions .
Are there any Methodist heathen ?
I s ` pose I ought to give my box to them , rather than to Presbyterian heathen . ''
`` No , it 's only after they 're converted that they 're anything in particular , '' said Felicity .
`` Before that , they 're just plain heathen .
But if you want your money to go to a Methodist missionary you can give it to the Methodist minister at Markdale .
I guess the Presbyterians can get along without it , and look after their own heathen . ''
`` Just smell Mrs. Sampson 's flowers , '' said Cecily , as we passed a trim white paling close to the road , over which blew odours sweeter than the perfume of Araby 's shore .
`` Her roses are all out and that bed of Sweet William is a sight by daylight . ''
`` Sweet William is a dreadful name for a flower , '' said the Story Girl .
`` William is a man 's name , and men are NEVER sweet .
They are a great many nice things , but they are NOT sweet and should n't be .
That is for women .
Oh , look at the moonshine on the road in that gap between the spruces !
I 'd like a dress of moonshine , with stars for buttons . ''
`` It would n't do , '' said Felicity decidedly .
`` You could see through it . ''
Which seemed to settle the question of moonshine dresses effectually .
CHAPTER XII .
THE BLUE CHEST OF RACHEL WARD `` It 's utterly out of the question , '' said Aunt Janet seriously .
When Aunt Janet said seriously that anything was out of the question it meant that she was thinking about it , and would probably end up by doing it .
If a thing really was out of the question she merely laughed and refused to discuss it at all .
The particular matter in or out of the question that opening day of August was a project which Uncle Edward had recently mooted .
Uncle Edward 's youngest daughter was to be married ; and Uncle Edward had written over , urging Uncle Alec , Aunt Janet and Aunt Olivia to go down to Halifax for the wedding and spend a week there .
Uncle Alec and Aunt Olivia were eager to go ; but Aunt Janet at first declared it was impossible .
`` How could we go away and leave the place to the mercy of all those young ones ? ''
she demanded .
`` We 'd come home and find them all sick , and the house burned down . ''
`` Not a bit of fear of it , '' scoffed Uncle Roger .
`` Felicity is as good a housekeeper as you are ; and I shall be here to look after them all , and keep them from burning the house down .
You 've been promising Edward for years to visit him , and you 'll never have a better chance .
The haying is over and harvest is n't on , and Alec needs a change .
He is n't looking well at all . ''
I think it was Uncle Roger 's last argument which convinced Aunt Janet .
In the end she decided to go .
Uncle Roger 's house was to be closed , and he and Peter and the Story Girl were to take up their abode with us .
We were all delighted .
Felicity , in especial , seemed to be in seventh heaven .
To be left in sole charge of a big house , with three meals a day to plan and prepare , with poultry and cows and dairy and garden to superintend , apparently furnished forth Felicity 's conception of Paradise .
Of course , we were all to help ; but Felicity was to `` run things , '' and she gloried in it .
The Story Girl was pleased , too .
`` Felicity is going to give me cooking lessons , '' she confided to me , as we walked in the orchard .
`` Is n't that fine ?
It will be easier when there are no grown-ups around to make me nervous , and laugh if I make mistakes . ''
Uncle Alec and aunts left on Monday morning .
Poor Aunt Janet was full of dismal forebodings , and gave us so many charges and warnings that we did not try to remember any of them ; Uncle Alec merely told us to be good and mind what Uncle Roger said .
Aunt Olivia laughed at us out of her pansy-blue eyes , and told us she knew exactly what we felt like and hoped we 'd have a gorgeous time .
`` Mind they go to bed at a decent hour , '' Aunt Janet called back to Uncle Roger as she drove out of the gate .
`` And if anything dreadful happens telegraph us . ''
Then they were really gone and we were all left `` to keep house . ''
Uncle Roger and Peter went away to their work .
Felicity at once set the preparations for dinner a-going , and allotted to each of us his portion of service .
The Story Girl was to prepare the potatoes ; Felix and Dan were to pick and shell the peas ; Cecily was to attend the fire ; I was to peel the turnips .
Felicity made our mouths water by announcing that she was going to make a roly-poly jam pudding for dinner .
I peeled my turnips on the back porch , put them in their pot , and set them on the stove .
Then I was at liberty to watch the others , who had longer jobs .
The kitchen was a scene of happy activity .
The Story Girl peeled her potatoes , somewhat slowly and awkwardly -- for she was not deft at household tasks ; Dan and Felix shelled peas and tormented Pat by attaching pods to his ears and tail ; Felicity , flushed and serious , measured and stirred skilfully .
`` I am sitting on a tragedy , '' said the Story Girl suddenly .
Felix and I stared .
We were not quite sure what a `` tragedy '' was , but we did not think it was an old blue wooden chest , such as the Story Girl was undoubtedly sitting on , if eyesight counted for anything .
The old chest filled up the corner between the table and the wall .
Neither Felix nor I had ever thought about it particularly .
It was very large and heavy , and Felicity generally said hard things of it when she swept the kitchen .
`` This old blue chest holds a tragedy , '' explained the Story Girl .
`` I know a story about it . ''
`` Cousin Rachel Ward 's wedding things are all in that old chest , '' said Felicity .
Who was Cousin Rachel Ward ?
And why were her wedding things shut up in an old blue chest in Uncle Alec 's kitchen ?
We demanded the tale instantly .
The Story Girl told it to us as she peeled her potatoes .
Perhaps the potatoes suffered -- Felicity declared the eyes were not properly done at all -- but the story did not .
`` It is a sad story , '' said the Story Girl , `` and it happened fifty years ago , when Grandfather and Grandmother King were quite young .
Grandmother 's cousin Rachel Ward came to spend a winter with them .
She belonged to Montreal and she was an orphan too , just like the Family Ghost .
I have never heard what she looked like , but she MUST have been beautiful , of course . ''
`` Mother says she was awful sentimental and romantic , '' interjected Felicity .
`` Well , anyway , she met Will Montague that winter .
He was handsome -- everybody says so '' -- `` And an awful flirt , '' said Felicity .
`` Felicity , I WISH you would n't interrupt .
It spoils the effect .
What would you feel like if I went and kept stirring things that did n't belong to it into that pudding ?
I feel just the same way .
Well , Will Montague fell in love with Rachel Ward , and she with him , and it was all arranged that they were to be married from here in the spring .
Poor Rachel was so happy that winter ; she made all her wedding things with her own hands .
Girls did , then , you know , for there was no such thing as a sewing-machine .
Well , at last in April the wedding day came , and all the guests were here , and Rachel was dressed in her wedding robes , waiting for her bridegroom .
And '' -- the Story Girl laid down her knife and potato and clasped her wet hands -- `` WILL MONTAGUE NEVER CAME ! ''
We felt as much of a shock as if we had been one of the expectant guests ourselves .
`` What happened to him ?
Was HE killed too ? ''
asked Felix .
The Story Girl sighed and resumed her work .
`` No , indeed .
I wish he had been .
THAT would have been suitable and romantic .
No , it was just something horrid .
He had to run away for debt !
Fancy !
He acted mean right through , Aunt Janet says .
He never sent even a word to Rachel , and she never heard from him again . ''
`` Pig ! ''
said Felix forcibly .
`` She was broken-hearted of course .
When she found out what had happened , she took all her wedding things , and her supply of linen , and some presents that had been given her , and packed them all away in this old blue chest .
Then she went away back to Montreal , and took the key with her .
She never came back to the Island again -- I suppose she could n't bear to .
And she has lived in Montreal ever since and never married .
She is an old woman now -- nearly seventy-five .
And this chest has never been opened since . ''
`` Mother wrote to Cousin Rachel ten years ago , '' said Cecily , `` and asked her if she might open the chest to see if the moths had got into it .
There 's a crack in the back as big as your finger .
Cousin Rachel wrote back that if it was n't for one thing that was in the trunk she would ask mother to open the chest and dispose of the things as she liked .
But she could not bear that any one but herself should see or touch that one thing .
So she wanted it left as it was .
Ma said she washed her hands of it , moths or no moths .
She said if Cousin Rachel had to move that chest every time the floor had to be scrubbed it would cure her of her sentimental nonsense .
But I think , '' concluded Cecily , `` that I would feel just like Cousin Rachel in her place . ''
`` What was the thing she could n't bear any one to see ? ''
I asked .
`` Ma thinks it was her wedding dress .
But father says he believes it was Will Montague 's picture , '' said Felicity .
`` He saw her put it in .
Father knows some of the things that are in the chest .
He was ten years old , and he saw her pack it .
There 's a white muslin wedding dress and a veil -- and -- and -- a -- a '' -- Felicity dropped her eyes and blushed painfully .
`` A petticoat , embroidered by hand from hem to belt , '' said the Story Girl calmly .
`` And a china fruit basket with an apple on the handle , '' went on Felicity , much relieved .
`` And a tea set , and a blue candle-stick . ''
`` I 'd dearly love to see all the things that are in it , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Pa says it must never be opened without Cousin Rachel 's permission , '' said Cecily .
Felix and I looked at the chest reverently .
It had taken on a new significance in our eyes , and seemed like a tomb wherein lay buried some dead romance of the vanished years .
`` What happened to Will Montague ? ''
I asked .
`` Nothing ! ''
said the Story Girl viciously .
`` He just went on living and flourishing .
He patched up matters with his creditors after awhile , and came back to the Island ; and in the end he married a real nice girl , with money , and was very happy .
Did you ever HEAR of anything so unjust ? ''
`` Beverley King , '' suddenly cried Felicity , who had been peering into a pot , `` YOU 'VE GONE AND PUT THE TURNIPS ON TO BOIL WHOLE JUST LIKE POTATOES ! ''
`` Was n't that right ? ''
I cried , in an agony of shame .
`` Right ! ''
but Felicity had already whisked the turnips out , and was slicing them , while all the others were laughing at me .
I had added a tradition on my own account to the family archives .
Uncle Roger roared when he heard it ; and he roared again at night over Peter 's account of Felix attempting to milk a cow .
Felix had previously acquired the knack of extracting milk from the udder .
But he had never before tried to `` milk a whole cow . ''
He did not get on well ; the cow tramped on his foot , and finally upset the bucket .
`` What are you to do when a cow wo n't stand straight ? ''
spluttered Felix angrily .
`` That 's the question , '' said Uncle Roger , shaking his head gravely .
Uncle Roger 's laughter was hard to bear , but his gravity was harder .
Meanwhile , in the pantry the Story Girl , apron-enshrouded , was being initiated into the mysteries of bread-making .
Under Felicity 's eyes she set the bread , and on the morrow she was to bake it .
`` The first thing you must do in the morning is knead it well , '' said Felicity , `` and the earlier it 's done the better -- because it 's such a warm night . ''
With that we went to bed , and slept as soundly as if tragedies of blue chests and turnips and crooked cows had no place in the scheme of things at all .
CHAPTER XIII .
AN OLD PROVERB WITH A NEW MEANING It was half-past five when we boys got up the next morning .
We were joined on the stairs by Felicity , yawning and rosy .
`` Oh , dear me , I overslept myself .
Uncle Roger wanted breakfast at six .
Well , I suppose the fire is on anyhow , for the Story Girl is up .
I guess she got up early to knead the bread .
She could n't sleep all night for worrying over it . ''
The fire was on , and a flushed and triumphant Story Girl was taking a loaf of bread from the oven .
`` Just look , '' she said proudly .
`` I have every bit of the bread baked .
I got up at three , and it was lovely and light , so I just gave it a right good kneading and popped it into the oven .
And it 's all done and out of the way .
But the loaves do n't seem quite as big as they should be , '' she added doubtfully .
`` Sara Stanley ! ''
Felicity flew across the kitchen .
`` Do you mean that you put the bread right into the oven after you kneaded it without leaving it to rise a second time ? ''
The Story Girl turned quite pale .
`` Yes , I did , '' she faltered .
`` Oh , Felicity , was n't it right ? ''
`` You 've ruined the bread , '' said Felicity flatly .
`` It 's as heavy as a stone .
I declare , Sara Stanley , I 'd rather have a little common sense than be a great story teller . ''
Bitter indeed was the poor Story Girl 's mortification .
`` Do n't tell Uncle Roger , '' she implored humbly .
`` Oh , I wo n't tell him , '' promised Felicity amiably .
`` It 's lucky there 's enough old bread to do to-day .
This will go to the hens .
But it 's an awful waste of good flour . ''
The Story Girl crept out with Felix and me to the morning orchard , while Dan and Peter went to do the barn work .
`` It is n't ANY use for me to try to learn to cook , '' she said .
`` Never mind , '' I said consolingly .
`` You can tell splendid stories . ''
`` But what good would that do a hungry boy ? ''
wailed the Story Girl .
`` Boys ai n't ALWAYS hungry , '' said Felix gravely .
`` There 's times when they ai n't . ''
`` I do n't believe it , '' said the Story Girl drearily .
`` Besides , '' added Felix in the tone of one who says while there is life there is yet hope , `` you may learn to cook yet if you keep on trying . ''
`` But Aunt Olivia wo n't let me waste the stuff .
My only hope was to learn this week .
But I suppose Felicity is so disgusted with me now that she wo n't give me any more lessons . ''
`` I do n't care , '' said Felix .
`` I like you better than Felicity , even if you ca n't cook .
There 's lots of folks can make bread .
But there is n't many who can tell a story like you . ''
`` But it 's better to be useful than just interesting , '' sighed the Story Girl bitterly .
And Felicity , who was useful , would , in her secret soul , have given anything to be interesting .
Which is the way of human nature .
Company descended on us that afternoon .
First came Aunt Janet 's sister , Mrs. Patterson , with a daughter of sixteen years and a son of two .
They were followed by a buggy-load of Markdale people ; and finally , Mrs. Elder Frewen and her sister from Vancouver , with two small daughters of the latter , arrived .
`` It never rains but it pours , '' said Uncle Roger , as he went out to take their horse .
But Felicity 's foot was on her native heath .
She had been baking all the afternoon , and , with a pantry well stocked with biscuits , cookies , cakes , and pies , she cared not if all Carlisle came to tea .
Cecily set the table , and the Story Girl waited on it and washed all the dishes afterwards .
But all the blushing honours fell to Felicity , who received so many compliments that her airs were quite unbearable for the rest of the week .
She presided at the head of the table with as much grace and dignity as if she had been five times twelve years old , and seemed to know by instinct just who took sugar and who took it not .
She was flushed with excitement and pleasure , and was so pretty that I could hardly eat for looking at her -- which is the highest compliment in a boy 's power to pay .
The Story Girl , on the contrary , was under eclipse .
She was pale and lustreless from her disturbed night and early rising ; and no opportunity offered to tell a melting tale .
Nobody took any notice of her .
It was Felicity 's day .
After tea Mrs. Frewen and her sister wished to visit their father 's grave in the Carlisle churchyard .
It appeared that everybody wanted to go with them ; but it was evident that somebody must stay home with Jimmy Patterson , who had just fallen sound asleep on the kitchen sofa .
Dan finally volunteered to look after him .
He had a new Henty book which he wanted to finish , and that , he said , was better fun than a walk to the graveyard .
`` I think we 'll be back before he wakes , '' said Mrs. Patterson , `` and anyhow he is very good and wo n't be any trouble .
Do n't let him go outside , though .
He has a cold now . ''
We went away , leaving Dan sitting on the door-sill reading his book , and Jimmy P. snoozing blissfully on the sofa .
When we returned -- Felix and the girls and I were ahead of the others -- Dan was still sitting in precisely the same place and attitude ; but there was no Jimmy in sight .
`` Dan , where 's the baby ? ''
cried Felicity .
Dan looked around .
His jaw fell in blank amazement .
I never say any one look as foolish as Dan at that moment .
`` Good gracious , I do n't know , '' he said helplessly .
`` You 've been so deep in that wretched book that he 's got out , and dear knows where he is , '' cried Felicity distractedly .
`` I was n't , '' cried Dan .
`` He MUST be in the house .
I 've been sitting right across the door ever since you left , and he could n't have got out unless he crawled right over me .
He must be in the house . ''
`` He is n't in the kitchen , '' said Felicity rushing about wildly , `` and he could n't get into the other part of the house , for I shut the hall door tight , and no baby could open it -- and it 's shut tight yet .
So are all the windows .
He MUST have gone out of that door , Dan King , and it 's your fault . ''
`` He DID N'T go out of this door , '' reiterated Dan stubbornly .
`` I know that . ''
`` Well , where is he , then ?
He is n't here .
Did he melt into air ? ''
demanded Felicity .
`` Oh , come and look for him , all of you .
Do n't stand round like ninnies .
We MUST find him before his mother gets here .
Dan King , you 're an idiot ! ''
Dan was too frightened to resent this , at the time .
However and wherever Jimmy had gone , he WAS gone , so much was certain .
We tore about the house and yard like maniacs ; we looked into every likely and unlikely place .
But Jimmy we could not find , anymore than if he had indeed melted into air .
Mrs. Patterson came , and we had not found him .
Things were getting serious .
Uncle Roger and Peter were summoned from the field .
Mrs. Patterson became hysterical , and was taken into the spare room with such remedies as could be suggested .
Everybody blamed poor Dan .
Cecily asked him what he would feel like if Jimmy was never , never found .
The Story Girl had a gruesome recollection of some baby at Markdale who had wandered away like that -- `` And they never found him till the next spring , and all they found was -- HIS SKELETON , with the grass growing through it , '' she whispered .
`` This beats me , '' said Uncle Roger , when a fruitless hour had elapsed .
`` I do hope that baby has n't wandered down to the swamp .
It seems impossible he could walk so far ; but I must go and see .
Felicity , hand me my high boots out from under the sofa , there 's a girl . ''
Felicity , pale and tearful , dropped on her knees and lifted the cretonne frill of the sofa .
There , his head pillowed hardly on Uncle Roger 's boots , lay Jimmy Patterson , still sound asleep !
`` Well , I 'll be -- jiggered ! ''
said Uncle Roger .
`` I KNEW he never went out of the door , '' cried Dan triumphantly .
When the last buggy had driven away , Felicity set a batch of bread , and the rest of us sat around the back porch steps in the cat 's light and ate cherries , shooting the stones at each other .
Cecily was in quest of information .
`` What does ` it never rains but it pours ' mean ? ''
`` Oh , it means if anything happens something else is sure to happen , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I 'll illustrate .
There 's Mrs. Murphy .
She never had a proposal in her life till she was forty , and then she had three in the one week , and she was so flustered she took the wrong one and has been sorry ever since .
Do you see what it means now ? ''
`` Yes , I guess so , '' said Cecily somewhat doubtfully .
Later on we heard her imparting her newly acquired knowledge to Felicity in the pantry . ''
` It never rains but it pours ' means that nobody wants to marry you for ever so long , and then lots of people do . ''
CHAPTER XIV .
FORBIDDEN FRUIT We were all , with the exception of Uncle Roger , more or less grumpy in the household of King next day .
Perhaps our nerves had been upset by the excitement attendant on Jimmy Patterson 's disappearance .
But it is more likely that our crankiness was the result of the supper we had eaten the previous night .
Even children can not devour mince pie , and cold fried pork ham , and fruit cake before going to bed with entire impunity .
Aunt Janet had forgotten to warn Uncle Roger to keep an eye on our bedtime snacks , and we ate what seemed good unto us .
Some of us had frightful dreams , and all of us carried chips on our shoulders at breakfast .
Felicity and Dan began a bickering which they kept up the entire day .
Felicity had a natural aptitude for what we called `` bossing , '' and in her mother 's absence she deemed that she had a right to rule supreme .
She knew better than to make any attempt to assert authority over the Story Girl , and Felix and I were allowed some length of tether ; but Cecily , Dan , and Peter were expected to submit dutifully to her decrees .
In the main they did ; but on this particular morning Dan was plainly inclined to rebel .
He had had time to grow sore over the things that Felicity had said to him when Jimmy Patterson was thought lost , and he began the day with a flatly expressed determination that he was not going to let Felicity rule the roost .
It was not a pleasant day , and to make matters worse it rained until late in the afternoon .
The Story Girl had not recovered from the mortifications of the previous day ; she would not talk , and she would not tell a single story ; she sat on Rachel Ward 's chest and ate her breakfast with the air of a martyr .
After breakfast she washed the dishes and did the bed-room work in grim silence ; then , with a book under one arm and Pat under the other , she betook herself to the window-seat in the upstairs hall , and would not be lured from that retreat , charmed we never so wisely .
She stroked the purring Paddy , and read steadily on , with maddening indifference to all our pleadings .
Even Cecily , the meek and mild , was snappish , and complained of headache .
Peter had gone home to see his mother , and Uncle Roger had gone to Markdale on business .
Sara Ray came up , but was so snubbed by Felicity that she went home , crying .
Felicity got the dinner by herself , disdaining to ask or command assistance .
She banged things about and rattled the stove covers until even Cecily protested from her sofa .
Dan sat on the floor and whittled , his sole aim and object being to make a mess and annoy Felicity , in which noble ambition he succeeded perfectly .
`` I wish Aunt Janet and Uncle Alec were home , '' said Felix .
`` It 's not half so much fun having the grown-ups away as I thought it would be . ''
`` I wish I was back in Toronto , '' I said sulkily .
The mince pie was to blame for THAT wish .
`` I wish you were , I 'm sure , '' said Felicity , riddling the fire noisily .
`` Any one who lives with you , Felicity King , will always be wishing he was somewhere else , '' said Dan .
`` I was n't talking to you , Dan King , '' retorted Felicity , '' ` Speak when you 're spoken to , come when you 're called . ' ''
`` Oh , oh , oh , '' wailed Cecily on the sofa .
`` I WISH it would stop raining .
I WISH my head would stop aching .
I WISH ma had never gone away .
I WISH you 'd leave Felicity alone , Dan . ''
`` I wish girls had some sense , '' said Dan -- which brought the orgy of wishing to an end for the time .
A wishing fairy might have had the time of her life in the King kitchen that morning -- particularly if she were a cynically inclined fairy .
But even the effects of unholy snacks wear away at length .
By tea-time things had brightened up .
The rain had ceased , and the old , low-raftered room was full of sunshine which danced on the shining dishes of the dresser , made mosaics on the floor , and flickered over the table whereon a delicious meal was spread .
Felicity had put on her blue muslin , and looked so beautiful in it that her good humour was quite restored .
Cecily 's headache was better , and the Story Girl , refreshed by an afternoon siesta , came down with smiles and sparkling eyes .
Dan alone continued to nurse his grievances , and would not even laugh when the Story Girl told us a tale brought to mind by some of the `` Rev. Mr. Scott 's plums '' which were on the table .
`` The Rev. Mr. Scott was the man who thought the pulpit door must be made for speerits , you know , '' she said .
`` I heard Uncle Edward telling ever so many stories about him .
He was called to this congregation , and he laboured here long and faithfully , and was much beloved , though he was very eccentric . ''
`` What does that mean ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Hush !
It just means queer , '' said Cecily , nudging him with her elbow .
`` A common man would be queer , but when it 's a minister , it 's eccentric . ''
`` When he gets very old , '' continued the Story Girl , `` the Presbytery thought it was time he was retired .
HE did n't think so ; but the Presbytery had their way , because there were so many of them to one of him .
He was retired , and a young man was called to Carlisle .
Mr. Scott went to live in town , but he came out to Carlisle very often , and visited all the people regularly , just the same as when he was their minister .
The young minister was a very good young man , and tried to do his duty ; but he was dreadfully afraid of meeting old Mr. Scott , because he had been told that the old minister was very angry at being set aside , and would likely give him a sound drubbing , if he ever met him .
One day the young minister was visiting the Crawfords in Markdale , when they suddenly heard old Mr. Scott 's voice in the kitchen .
The young minister turned pale as the dead , and implored Mrs. Crawford to hid him .
But she could n't get him out of the room , and all she could do was to hide him in the china closet .
The young minister slipped into the china closet , and old Mr. Scott came into the room .
He talked very nicely , and read , and prayed .
They made very long prayers in those days , you know ; and at the end of his prayer he said , ` Oh Lord , bless the poor young man hiding in the closet .
Give him courage not to fear the face of man .
Make him a burning and a shining light to this sadly abused congregation . '
Just imagine the feelings of the young minister in the china closet !
But he came right out like a man , though his face was very red , as soon as Mr. Scott had done praying .
And Mr. Scott was lovely to him , and shook hands , and never mentioned the china closet .
And they were the best of friends ever afterwards . ''
`` How did old Mr. Scott find out the young minister was in the closet ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Nobody ever knew .
They supposed he had seen him through the window before he came into the house , and guessed he must be in the closet -- because there was no way for him to get out of the room . ''
`` Mr. Scott planted the yellow plum tree in Grandfather 's time , '' said Cecily , peeling one of the plums , `` and when he did it he said it was as Christian an act as he ever did .
I wonder what he meant .
I do n't see anything very Christian about planting a tree . ''
`` I do , '' said the Story Girl sagely .
When next we assembled ourselves together , it was after milking , and the cares of the day were done with .
We foregathered in the balsam-fragrant aisles of the fir wood , and ate early August apples to such an extent that the Story Girl said we made her think of the Irishman 's pig .
`` An Irishman who lived at Markdale had a little pig , '' she said , `` and he gave it a pailful of mush .
The pig at the whole pailful , and then the Irishman put the pig IN the pail , and it did n't fill more than half the pail .
Now , how was that , when it held a whole pailful of mush ? ''
This seemed to be a rather unanswerable kind of conundrum .
We discussed the problem as we roamed the wood , and Dan and Peter almost quarrelled over it , Dan maintaining that the thing was impossible , and Peter being of the opinion that the mush was somehow `` made thicker '' in the process of being eaten , and so took up less room .
During the discussion we came out to the fence of the hill pasture where grew the `` bad berry '' bushes .
Just what these `` bad berries '' were I can not tell .
We never knew their real name .
They were small , red-clustered berries of a glossy , seductive appearance , and we were forbidden to eat them , because it was thought they might be poisonous .
Dan picked a cluster and held it up .
`` Dan King , do n't you DARE eat those berries , '' said Felicity in her `` bossiest '' tone .
`` They 're poison .
Drop them right away . ''
Now , Dan had not had the slightest intention of eating the berries .
But at Felicity 's prohibition the rebellion which had smouldered in him all day broke into sudden flame .
He would show her !
`` I 'll eat them if I please , Felicity King , '' he said in a fury : `` I do n't believe they 're poison .
Look here ! ''
Dan crammed the whole bunch into his capacious mouth and chewed it up .
`` They taste great , '' he said , smacking ; and he ate two more clusters , regardless of our horror-stricken protestations and Felicity 's pleadings .
We feared that Dan would drop dead on the spot .
But nothing occurred immediately .
When an hour had passed we concluded that the bad berries were not poison after all , and we looked upon Dan as quite a hero for daring to eat them .
`` I knew they would n't hurt me , '' he said loftily .
`` Felicity 's so fond of making a fuss over everything . ''
Nevertheless , when it grew dark and we returned to the house , I noticed that Dan was rather pale and quiet .
He lay down on the kitchen sofa .
`` Do n't you feel all right , Dan ? ''
I whispered anxiously .
`` Shut up , '' he said .
I shut up .
Felicity and Cecily were setting out a lunch in the pantry when we were all startled by a loud groan from the sofa .
`` Oh , I 'm sick -- I 'm awful sick , '' said Dan abjectly , all the defiance and bravado gone out of him .
We all went to pieces , except Cecily , who alone retained her presence of mind .
`` Have you got a pain in your stomach ? ''
she demanded .
`` I 've got an awful pain here , if that 's where my stomach is , '' moaned Dan , putting his hand on a portion of his anatomy considerably below his stomach .
`` Oh -- oh -- oh ! ''
`` Go for Uncle Roger , '' commanded Cecily , pale but composed .
`` Felicity , put on the kettle .
Dan , I 'm going to give you mustard and warm water . ''
The mustard and warm water produced its proper effect promptly , but gave Dan no relief .
He continued to writhe and groan .
Uncle Roger , who had been summoned from his own place , went at once for the doctor , telling Peter to go down the hill for Mrs. Ray .
Peter went , but returned accompanied by Sara only .
Mrs. Ray and Judy Pineau were both away .
Sara might better have stayed home ; she was of no use , and could only add to the general confusion , wandering aimlessly about , crying and asking if Dan was going to die .
Cecily took charge of things .
Felicity might charm the palate , and the Story Girl bind captive the soul ; but when pain and sickness wrung the brow it was Cecily who was the ministering angel .
She made the writhing Dan go to bed .
She made him swallow every available antidote which was recommended in `` the doctor 's book ; '' and she applied hot cloths to him until her faithful little hands were half scalded off .
There was no doubt Dan was suffering intense pain .
He moaned and writhed , and cried for his mother .
`` Oh , is n't it dreadful ! ''
said Felicity , wringing her hands as she walked the kitchen floor .
`` Oh , why does n't the doctor come ?
I TOLD Dan the bad berries were poison .
But surely they ca n't kill people ALTOGETHER . ''
`` Pa 's cousin died of eating something forty years ago , '' sobbed Sara Ray .
`` Hold your tongue , '' said Peter in a fierce whisper .
`` You oughter have more sense than to say such things to the girls .
They do n't want to be any worse scared than they are . ''
`` But Pa 's cousin DID die , '' reiterated Sara .
`` My Aunt Jane used to rub whisky on for a pain , '' suggested Peter .
`` We have n't any whisky , '' said Felicity disapprovingly .
`` This is a temperance house . ''
`` But rubbing whisky on the OUTSIDE is n't any harm , '' argued Peter .
`` It 's only when you take it inside it is bad for you . ''
`` Well , we have n't any , anyhow , '' said Felicity .
`` I suppose blueberry wine would n't do in its place ? ''
Peter did not think blueberry wine would be any good .
It was ten o'clock before Dan began to get better ; but from that time he improved rapidly .
When the doctor , who had been away from home when Uncle Roger reached Markdale , came at half past ten , he found his patient very weak and white , but free from pain .
Dr. Grier patted Cecily on the head , told her she was a little brick , and had done just the right thing , examined some of the fatal berries and gave it as his opinion that they were probably poisonous , administered some powders to Dan and advised him not to tamper with forbidden fruit in future , and went away .
Mrs. Ray now appeared , looking for Sara , and said she would stay all night with us .
`` I 'll be much obliged to you if you will , '' said Uncle Roger .
`` I feel a bit shook .
I urged Janet and Alec to go to Halifax , and took the responsibility of the children while they were away , but I did n't know what I was letting myself in for .
If anything had happened I could never have forgiven myself -- though I believe it 's beyond the power of mortal man to keep watch over the things children WILL eat .
Now , you young fry , get straight off to your beds .
Dan is out of danger , and you ca n't do any more good .
Not that any of you have done much , except Cecily .
She 's got a head of her shoulders . ''
`` It 's been a horrid day all through , '' said Felicity drearily , as we climbed the stairs .
`` I suppose we made it horrid ourselves , '' said the Story Girl candidly .
`` But it 'll be a good story to tell sometime , '' she added .
`` I 'm awful tired and thankful , '' sighed Cecily .
We all felt that way .
CHAPTER XV .
A DISOBEDIENT BROTHER Dan was his own man again in the morning , though rather pale and weak ; he wanted to get up , but Cecily ordered him to stay in bed .
Fortunately Felicity forgot to repeat the command , so Dan did stay in bed .
Cecily carried his meals to him , and read a Henty book to him all her spare time .
The Story Girl went up and told him wondrous tales ; and Sara Ray brought him a pudding she had made herself .
Sara 's intentions were good , but the pudding -- well , Dan fed most of it to Paddy , who had curled himself up at the foot of the bed , giving the world assurance of a cat by his mellifluous purring .
`` Ai n't he just a great old fellow ? ''
said Dan .
`` He knows I 'm kind of sick , just as well as a human .
He never pays no attention to me when I 'm well . ''
Felix and Peter and I were required to help Uncle Roger in some carpentering work that day , and Felicity indulged in one of the house-cleaning orgies so dear to her soul ; so that it was evening before we were all free to meet in the orchard and loll on the grasses of Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
In August it was a place of shady sweetness , fragrant with the odour of ripening apples , full of dear , delicate shadows .
Through its openings we looked afar to the blue rims of the hills and over green , old , tranquil fields , lying the sunset glow .
Overhead the lacing leaves made a green , murmurous roof .
There was no such thing as hurry in the world , while we lingered there and talked of `` cabbages and kings . ''
A tale of the Story Girl 's , wherein princes were thicker than blackberries , and queens as common as buttercups , led to our discussion of kings .
We wondered what it would be like to be a king .
Peter thought it would be fine , only kind of inconvenient , wearing a crown all the time .
`` Oh , but they do n't , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Maybe they used to once , but now they wear hats .
The crowns are just for special occasions .
They look very much like other people , if you can go by their photographs . ''
`` I do n't believe it would be much fun as a steady thing , '' said Cecily .
`` I 'd like to SEE a queen though .
That is one thing I have against the Island -- you never have a chance to see things like that here . ''
`` The Prince of Wales was in Charlottetown once , '' said Peter .
`` My Aunt Jane saw him quite close by . ''
`` That was before we were born , and such a thing wo n't happen again until after we 're dead , '' said Cecily , with very unusual pessimism .
`` I think queens and kings were thicker long ago , '' said the Story Girl .
`` They do seem dreadfully scarce now .
There is n't one in this country anywhere .
Perhaps I 'll get a glimpse of some when I go to Europe . ''
Well , the Story Girl was destined to stand before kings herself , and she was to be one whom they delighted to honour .
But we did not know that , as we sat in the old orchard .
We thought it quite sufficiently marvellous that she should expect to have the chance of just seeing them .
`` Can a queen do exactly as she pleases ? ''
Sara Ray wanted to know .
`` Not nowadays , '' explained the Story Girl .
`` Then I do n't see any use in being one , '' Sara decided .
`` A king ca n't do as he pleases now , either , '' said Felix .
`` If he tries to , and if it is n't what pleases other people , the Parliament or something squelches him . ''
`` Is n't ` squelch ' a lovely word ? ''
said the Story Girl irrelevantly .
`` It 's so expressive .
Squ-u-e-l-ch ! ''
Certainly it was a lovely word , as the Story Girl said it .
Even a king would not have minded being squelched , if it were done to music like that .
`` Uncle Roger says that Martin Forbes ' wife has squelched HIM , '' said Felicity .
`` He says Martin ca n't call his soul his own since he was married . ''
`` I 'm glad of it , '' said Cecily vindictively .
We all stared .
This was so very unlike Cecily .
`` Martin Forbes is the brother of a horrid man in Summerside who called me Johnny , that 's why , '' she explained .
`` He was visiting here with his wife two years ago , and he called me Johnny every time he spoke to me .
Just you fancy !
I 'll NEVER forgive him . ''
`` That is n't a Christian spirit , '' said Felicity rebukingly .
`` I do n't care .
Would YOU forgive James Forbes if he had called YOU Johnny ? ''
demanded Cecily .
`` I know a story about Martin Forbes ' grandfather , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Long ago they did n't have any choir in the Carlisle church -- just a precentor you know .
But at last they got a choir , and Andrew McPherson was to sing bass in it .
Old Mr. Forbes had n't gone to church for years , because he was so rheumatic , but he went the first Sunday the choir sang , because he had never heard any one sing bass , and wanted to hear what it was like .
Grandfather King asked him what he thought of the choir .
Mr. Forbes said it was ` verra guid , ' but as for Andrew 's bass , ` there was nae bass aboot it -- it was just a bur-r-r-r the hale time . ' ''
If you could have heard the Story Girl 's `` bur-r-r-r ! ''
Not old Mr. Forbes himself could have invested it with more of Doric scorn .
We rolled over in the cool grass and screamed with laughter .
`` Poor Dan , '' said Cecily compassionately .
`` He 's up there all alone in his room , missing all the fun .
I suppose it 's mean of us to be having such a good time here , when he has to stay in bed . ''
`` If Dan had n't done wrong eating the bad berries when he was told not to , he would n't be sick , '' said Felicity .
`` You 're bound to catch it when you do wrong .
It was just a Providence he did n't die . ''
`` That makes me think of another story about old Mr. Scott , '' said the Story Girl .
`` You know , I told you he was very angry because the Presbytery made him retire .
There were two ministers in particular he blamed for being at the bottom of it .
One time a friend of his was trying to console him , and said to him , '' ` You should be resigned to the will of Providence . ' ''
` Providence had nothing to do with it , ' said old Mr. Scott . ''
Twas the McCloskeys and the devil . ' ''
`` You should n't speak of the -- the -- DEVIL , '' said Felicity , rather shocked .
`` Well , that 's just what Mr. Scott said . ''
`` Oh , it 's all right for a MINISTER to speak of him .
But it is n't nice for little girls .
If you HAVE to speak of -- of -- him -- you might say the Old Scratch .
That is what mother calls him . '' '' ''
Twas the McCloskeys and the Old Scratch , ' '' said the Story Girl reflectively , as if she were trying to see which version was the more effective .
`` It would n't do , '' she decided .
`` I do n't think it 's any harm to mention the -- the -- that person , when you 're telling a story , '' said Cecily .
`` It 's only in plain talking it does n't do .
It sounds too much like swearing then . ''
`` I know another story about Mr. Scott , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Not long after he was married his wife was n't quite ready for church one morning when it was time to go .
So , just to teach her a lesson , he drove off alone , and left her to walk all the way -- it was nearly two miles -- in the heat and dust .
She took it very quietly .
It 's the best way , I guess , when you 're married to a man like old Mr. Scott .
But just a few Sundays after was n't he late himself !
I suppose Mrs. Scott thought that what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander , for she slipped out and drove off to church as he had done .
Old Mr. Scott finally arrived at the church , pretty hot and dusty , and in none too good a temper .
He went into the pulpit , leaned over it and looked at his wife , sitting calmly in her pew at the side . ''
` It was cleverly done , ' he said , right out loud , ` BUT DINNA TRY IT AGAIN ! ' ''
In the midst of our laughter Pat came down the Walk , his stately tail waving over the grasses .
He proved to be the precursor of Dan , clothed and in his right mind .
`` Do you think you should have got up , Dan ? ''
said Cecily anxiously .
`` I had to , '' said Dan .
`` The window was open , and it was more 'n I could stand to hear you fellows laughing down here and me missing it all .
` Sides , I 'm all right again .
I feel fine . ''
`` I guess this will be a lesson to you , Dan King , '' said Felicity , in her most maddening tone .
`` I guess you wo n't forget it in a hurry .
You wo n't go eating the bad berries another time when you 're told not to . ''
Dan had picked out a soft spot in the grass for himself , and was in the act of sitting down , when Felicity 's tactful speech arrested him midway .
He straightened up and turned a wrathful face on his provoking sister .
Then , red with indignation , but without a word , he stalked up the walk .
`` Now he 's gone off mad , '' said Cecily reproachfully .
`` Oh , Felicity , why could n't you have held your tongue ? ''
`` Why , what did I say to make him mad ? ''
asked Felicity in honest perplexity .
`` I think it 's awful for brothers and sisters to be always quarrelling , '' sighed Cecily .
`` The Cowans fight all the time ; and you and Dan will soon be as bad . ''
`` Oh , talk sense , '' said Felicity .
`` Dan 's got so touchy it is n't safe to speak to him .
I should think he 'd be sorry for all the trouble he made last night .
But you just back him up in everything , Cecily . ''
`` I do n't ! ''
`` You do !
And you 've no business to , specially when mother 's away .
She left ME in charge . ''
`` You did n't take much charge last night when Dan got sick , '' said Felix maliciously .
Felicity had told him at tea that night he was getting fatter than ever .
This was his tit-for-tat .
`` You were pretty glad to leave it all to Cecily then . ''
`` Who 's talking to you ? ''
said Felicity .
`` Now , look here , '' said the Story Girl , `` the first thing we know we 'll all be quarrelling , and then some of us will sulk all day to-morrow .
It 's dreadful to spoil a whole day .
Just let 's all sit still and count a hundred before we say another word . ''
We sat still and counted the hundred .
When Cecily finished she got up and went in search of Dan , resolved to soothe his wounded feelings .
Felicity called after her to tell Dan there was a jam turnover she had put away in the pantry specially for him .
Felix held out to Felicity a remarkably fine apple which he had been saving for his own consumption ; and the Story Girl began a tale of an enchanted maiden in a castle by the sea ; but we never heard the end of it .
For , just as the evening star was looking whitely through the rosy window of the west , Cecily came flying through the orchard , wringing her hands .
`` Oh , come , come quick , '' she gasped .
`` Dan 's eating the bad berries again -- he 's et a whole bunch of them -- he says he 'll show Felicity .
I ca n't stop him .
Come you and try . ''
We rose in a body and rushed towards the house .
In the yard we encountered Dan , emerging from the fir wood and champing the fatal berries with unrepentant relish .
`` Dan King , do you want to commit suicide ? ''
demanded the Story Girl .
`` Look here , Dan , '' I expostulated .
`` You should n't do this .
Think how sick you were last night and all the trouble you made for everybody .
Do n't eat any more , there 's a good chap . ''
`` All right , '' said Dan .
`` I 've et all I want .
They taste fine .
I do n't believe it was them made me sick . ''
But now that his anger was over he looked a little frightened .
Felicity was not there .
We found her in the kitchen , lighting up the fire .
`` Bev , fill the kettle with water and put it on to heat , '' she said in a resigned tone .
`` If Dan 's going to be sick again we 've got to be ready for it .
I wish mother was home , that 's all .
I hope she 'll never go away again .
Dan King , you just wait till I tell her of the way you 've acted . ''
`` Fudge !
I ai n't going to be sick , '' said Dan .
`` And if YOU begin telling tales , Felicity King , I 'LL tell some too .
I know how many eggs mother said you could use while she was away -- and I know how many you HAVE used .
I counted .
So you 'd better mind your own business , Miss. '' `` A nice way to talk to your sister when you may be dead in an hour 's time ! ''
retorted Felicity , in tears between her anger and her real alarm about Dan .
But in an hour 's time Dan was still in good health , and announced his intention of going to bed .
He went , and was soon sleeping as peacefully as if he had nothing on either conscience or stomach .
But Felicity declared she meant to keep the water hot until all danger was past ; and we sat up to keep her company .
We were sitting there when Uncle Roger walked in at eleven o'clock .
`` What on earth are you young fry doing up at this time of night ? ''
he asked angrily .
`` You should have been in your beds two hours ago .
And with a roaring fire on a night that 's hot enough to melt a brass monkey !
Have you taken leave of your senses ? ''
`` It 's because of Dan , '' explained Felicity wearily .
`` He went and et more of the bad berries -- a whole lot of them -- and we were sure he 'd be sick again .
But he has n't been yet , and now he 's asleep . ''
`` Is that boy stark , staring mad ? ''
said Uncle Roger .
`` It was Felicity 's fault , '' cried Cecily , who always took Dan 's part through evil report and good report .
`` She told him she guessed he 'd learned a lesson and would n't do what she 'd told him not to again .
So he went and et them because she vexed him so . ''
`` Felicity King , if you do n't watch out you 'll grow up into the sort of woman who drives her husband to drink , '' said Uncle Roger gravely .
`` How could I tell Dan would act so like a mule ! ''
cried Felicity .
`` Get off to bed , every one of you .
It 's a thankful man I 'll be when your father and mother come home .
The wretched bachelor who undertakes to look after a houseful of children like you is to be pitied .
Nobody will ever catch me doing it again .
Felicity , is there anything fit to eat in the pantry ? ''
That last question was the most unkindest cut of all .
Felicity could have forgiven Uncle Roger anything but that .
It really was unpardonable .
She confided to me as we climbed the stairs that she hated Uncle Roger .
Her red lips quivered and the tears of wounded pride brimmed over in her beautiful blue eyes .
In the dim candle-light she looked unbelievably pretty and appealing .
I put my arm about her and gave her a cousinly salute .
`` Never you mind him , Felicity , '' I said .
`` He 's only a grown-up . ''
CHAPTER XVI .
THE GHOSTLY BELL Friday was a comfortable day in the household of King .
Everybody was in good humour .
The Story Girl sparkled through several tales that ranged from the afrites and jinns of Eastern myth , through the piping days of chivalry , down to the homely anecdotes of Carlisle workaday folks .
She was in turn an Oriental princess behind a silken veil , the bride who followed her bridegroom to the wars of Palestine disguised as a page , the gallant lady who ransomed her diamond necklace by dancing a coranto with a highwayman on a moonlit heath , and `` Buskirk 's girl '' who joined the Sons and Daughters of Temperance `` just to see what was into it ; '' and in each impersonation she was so thoroughly the thing impersonated that it was a matter of surprise to us when she emerged from each our own familiar Story Girl again .
Cecily and Sara Ray found a `` sweet '' new knitted lace pattern in an old magazine and spent a happy afternoon learning it and `` talking secrets . ''
Chancing -- accidentally , I vow -- to overhear certain of these secrets , I learned that Sara Ray had named an apple for Johnny Price -- `` and , Cecily , true 's you live , there was eight seeds in it , and you know eight means ` they both love ' '' -- while Cecily admitted that Willy Fraser had written on his slate and showed it to her , `` If you love me as I love you , No knife can cut our love in two '' -- `` but , Sara Ray , NEVER you breathe this to a living soul . ''
Felix also averred that he heard Sara ask Cecily very seriously , `` Cecily , how old must we be before we can have a REAL beau ? ''
But Sara always denied it ; so I am inclined to believe Felix simply made it up himself .
Paddy distinguished himself by catching a rat , and being intolerably conceited about it -- until Sara Ray cured him by calling him a `` dear , sweet cat , '' and kissing him between the ears .
Then Pat sneaked abjectly off , his tail drooping .
He resented being called a sweet cat .
He had a sense of humour , had Pat .
Very few cats have ; and most of them have such an inordinate appetite for flattery that they will swallow any amount of it and thrive thereon .
Paddy had a finer taste .
The Story Girl and I were the only ones who could pay him compliments to his liking .
The Story Girl would box his ears with her fist and say , `` Bless your gray heart , Paddy , you 're a good sort of old rascal , '' and Pat would purr his satisfaction ; I used to take a handful of the skin on his back , shake him gently and say , `` Pat , you 've forgotten more than any human being ever knew , '' and I vow Paddy would lick his chops with delight .
But to be called `` a sweet cat ! ''
Oh , Sara , Sara !
Felicity tried -- and had the most gratifying luck with -- a new and complicated cake recipe -- a gorgeous compound of a plumminess to make your mouth water .
The number of eggs she used in it would have shocked Aunt Janet 's thrifty soul , but that cake , like beauty , was its own excuse .
Uncle Roger ate three slices of it at tea-time and told Felicity she was an artist .
The poor man meant it as a compliment ; but Felicity , who knew Uncle Blair was an artist and had a poor opinion of such fry , looked indignant and retorted , indeed she was n't !
`` Peter says there 's any amount of raspberries back in the maple clearing , '' said Dan .
`` S'posen we all go after tea and pick some ? ''
`` I 'd like to , '' sighed Felicity , `` but we 'd come home tired and with all the milking to do .
You boys better go alone . ''
`` Peter and I will attend to the milking for one evening , '' said Uncle Roger .
`` You can all go .
I have an idea that a raspberry pie for to-morrow night , when the folks come home , would hit the right spot . ''
Accordingly , after tea we all set off , armed with jugs and cups .
Felicity , thoughtful creature , also took a small basketful of jelly cookies along with her .
We had to go back through the maple woods to the extreme end of Uncle Roger 's farm -- a pretty walk , through a world of green , whispering boughs and spice-sweet ferns , and shifting patches of sunlight .
The raspberries were plentiful , and we were not long in filling our receptacles .
Then we foregathered around a tiny wood spring , cold and pellucid under its young maples , and ate the jelly cookies ; and the Story Girl told us a tale of a haunted spring in a mountain glen where a fair white lady dwelt , who pledged all comers in a golden cup with jewels bright .
`` And if you drank of the cup with her , '' said the Story Girl , her eyes glowing through the emerald dusk about us , `` you were never seen in the world again ; you were whisked straightway to fairyland , and lived there with a fairy bride .
And you never WANTED to come back to earth , because when you drank of the magic cup you forgot all your past life , except for one day in every year when you were allowed to remember it . ''
`` I wish there was such a place as fairyland -- and a way to get to it , '' said Cecily .
`` I think there IS such a place -- in spite of Uncle Edward , '' said the Story Girl dreamily , `` and I think there is a way of getting there too , if we could only find it . ''
Well , the Story Girl was right .
There is such a place as fairyland -- but only children can find the way to it .
And they do not know that it is fairyland until they have grown so old that they forget the way .
One bitter day , when they seek it and can not find it , they realize what they have lost ; and that is the tragedy of life .
On that day the gates of Eden are shut behind them and the age of gold is over .
Henceforth they must dwell in the common light of common day .
Only a few , who remain children at heart , can ever find that fair , lost path again ; and blessed are they above mortals .
They , and only they , can bring us tidings from that dear country where we once sojourned and from which we must evermore be exiles .
The world calls them its singers and poets and artists and story-tellers ; but they are just people who have never forgotten the way to fairyland .
As we sat there the Awkward Man passed by , with his gun over his shoulder and his dog at his side .
He did not look like an awkward man , there in the heart of the maple woods .
He strode along right masterfully and lifted his head with the air of one who was monarch of all he surveyed .
The Story Girl kissed her fingertips to him with the delightful audacity which was a part of her ; and the Awkward Man plucked off his hat and swept her a stately and graceful bow .
`` I do n't understand why they call him the awkward man , '' said Cecily , when he was out of earshot .
`` You 'd understand why if you ever saw him at a party or a picnic , '' said Felicity , `` trying to pass plates and dropping them whenever a woman looked at him .
They say it 's pitiful to see him . ''
`` I must get well acquainted with that man next summer , '' said the Story Girl .
`` If I put it off any longer it will be too late .
I 'm growing so fast , Aunt Olivia says I 'll have to wear ankle skirts next summer .
If I begin to look grown-up he 'll get frightened of me , and then I 'll never find out the Golden Milestone mystery . ''
`` Do you think he 'll ever tell you who Alice is ? ''
I asked .
`` I have a notion who Alice is already , '' said the mysterious creature .
But she would tell us nothing more .
When the jelly cookies were all eaten it was high time to be moving homeward , for when the dark comes down there are more comfortable places than a rustling maple wood and the precincts of a possibly enchanted spring .
When we reached the foot of the orchard and entered it through a gap in the hedge it was the magical , mystical time of `` between lights . ''
Off to the west was a daffodil glow hanging over the valley of lost sunsets , and Grandfather King 's huge willow rose up against it like a rounded mountain of foliage .
In the east , above the maple woods , was a silvery sheen that hinted the moonrise .
But the orchard was a place of shadows and mysterious sounds .
Midway up the open space in its heart we met Peter ; and if ever a boy was given over to sheer terror that boy was Peter .
His face was as white as a sunburned face could be , and his eyes were brimmed with panic .
`` Peter , what is the matter ? ''
cried Cecily .
`` There 's -- SOMETHING -- in the house , RINGING A BELL , '' said Peter , in a shaking voice .
Not the Story Girl herself could have invested that `` something '' with more of creepy horror .
We all drew close together .
I felt a crinkly feeling along my back which I had never known before .
If Peter had not been so manifestly frightened we might have thought he was trying to `` pass a joke '' on us .
But such abject terror as his could not be counterfeited .
`` Nonsense ! ''
said Felicity , but her voice shook .
`` There is n't a bell in the house to ring .
You must have imagined it , Peter .
Or else Uncle Roger is trying to fool us . ''
`` Your Uncle Roger went to Markdale right after milking , '' said Peter .
`` He locked up the house and gave me the key .
There was n't a soul in it then , that I 'm sure of .
I druv the cows to the pasture , and I got back about fifteen minutes ago .
I set down on the front door steps for a moment , and all at once I heard a bell ring in the house eight times .
I tell you I was skeered .
I made a bolt for the orchard -- and you wo n't catch me going near that house till your Uncle Roger comes home . ''
You would n't catch any of us doing it .
We were almost as badly scared as Peter .
There we stood in a huddled demoralized group .
Oh , what an eerie place that orchard was !
What shadows !
What noises !
What spooky swooping of bats !
You COULD N'T look every way at once , and goodness only knew what might be behind you !
`` There CA N'T be anybody in the house , '' said Felicity .
`` Well , here 's the key -- go and see for yourself , '' said Peter .
Felicity had no intention of going and seeing .
`` I think you boys ought to go , '' she said , retreating behind the defence of sex .
`` You ought to be braver than girls . ''
`` But we ai n't , '' said Felix candidly .
`` I would n't be much scared of anything REAL .
But a haunted house is a different thing . ''
`` I always thought something had to be done in a place before it could be haunted , '' said Cecily .
`` Somebody killed or something like that , you know .
Nothing like that ever happened in our family .
The Kings have always been respectable . ''
`` Perhaps it is Emily King 's ghost , '' whispered Felix .
`` She never appeared anywhere but in the orchard , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Oh , oh , children , is n't there something under Uncle Alec 's tree ? ''
We peered fearfully through the gloom .
There WAS something -- something that wavered and fluttered -- advanced -- retreated -- `` That 's only my old apron , '' said Felicity .
`` I hung it there to-day when I was looking for the white hen 's nest .
Oh , what shall we do ?
Uncle Roger may not be back for hours .
I CA N'T believe there 's anything in the house . ''
`` Maybe it 's only Peg Bowen , '' suggested Dan .
There was not a great deal of comfort in this .
We were almost as much afraid of Peg Bowen as we would be of any spectral visitant .
Peter scoffed at the idea .
`` Peg Bowen was n't in the house before your Uncle Roger locked it up , and how could she get in afterwards ? ''
he said .
`` No , it is n't Peg Bowen .
It 's SOMETHING that WALKS . ''
`` I know a story about a ghost , '' said the Story Girl , the ruling passion strong even in extremity .
`` It is about a ghost with eyeholes but no eyes -- '' `` Do n't , '' cried Cecily hysterically .
`` Do n't you go on !
Do n't you say another word !
I ca n't bear it !
Do n't you ! ''
The Story Girl did n't .
But she had said enough .
There was something in the quality of a ghost with eyeholes but no eyes that froze our young blood .
There never were in all the world six more badly scared children than those who huddled in the old King orchard that August night .
All at once -- something -- leaped from the bough of a tree and alighted before us .
We split the air with a simultaneous shriek .
We would have run , one and all , if there had been anywhere to run to .
But there was n't -- all around us were only those shadowy arcades .
Then we saw with shame that it was only our Paddy .
`` Pat , Pat , '' I said , picking him up , feeling a certain comfort in his soft , solid body .
`` Stay with us , old fellow . ''
But Pat would none of us .
He struggled out of my clasp and disappeared over the long grasses with soundless leaps .
He was no longer our tame , domestic , well acquainted Paddy .
He was a strange , furtive animal -- a `` questing beast . ''
Presently the moon rose ; but this only made matters worse .
The shadows had been still before ; now they moved and danced , as the night wind tossed the boughs .
The old house , with its dreadful secret , was white and clear against the dark background of spruces .
We were woefully tired , but we could not sit down because the grass was reeking with dew .
`` The Family Ghost only appears in daylight , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I would n't mind seeing a ghost in daylight .
But after dark is another thing . ''
`` There 's no such thing as a ghost , '' I said contemptuously .
Oh , how I wished I could believe it !
`` Then what rung that bell ? ''
said Peter .
`` Bells do n't ring of themselves , I s ` pose , specially when there ai n't any in the house to ring . ''
`` Oh , will Uncle Roger never come home ! ''
sobbed Felicity .
`` I know he 'll laugh at us awful , but it 's better to be laughed at than scared like this . ''
Uncle Roger did not come until nearly ten .
Never was there a more welcome sound than the rumble of his wheels in the lane .
We ran to the orchard gate and swarmed across the yard , just as Uncle Roger alighted at the front door .
He stared at us in the moonlight .
`` Have you tormented any one into eating more bad berries , Felicity ? ''
he demanded .
`` Oh , Uncle Roger , do n't go in , '' implored Felicity seriously .
`` There 's something dreadful in there -- something that rings a bell .
Peter heard it .
Do n't go in . ''
`` There 's no use asking the meaning of this , I suppose , '' said Uncle Roger with the calm of despair .
`` I 've gave up trying to fathom you young ones .
Peter , where 's the key ?
What yarn have you been telling ? ''
`` I DID hear a bell ring , '' said Peter stubbornly .
Uncle Roger unlocked and flung open the front door .
As he did so , clear and sweet , rang out ten bell-like chimes .
`` That 's what I heard , '' cried Peter .
`` There 's the bell ! ''
We had to wait until Uncle Roger stopped laughing before we heard the explanation .
We thought he never WOULD stop .
`` That 's Grandfather King 's old clock striking , '' he said , as soon as he was able to speak .
`` Sammy Prott came along after tea , when you were away to the forge , Peter , and I gave him permission to clean the old clock .
He had it going merrily in no time .
And now it has almost frightened you poor little monkeys to death . ''
We heard Uncle Roger chuckling all the way to the barn .
`` Uncle Roger can laugh , '' said Cecily , with a quiver in her voice , `` but it 's no laughing matter to be so scared .
I just feel sick , I was so frightened . ''
`` I would n't mind if he 'd laugh once and have it done with it , '' said Felicity bitterly .
`` But he 'll laugh at us for a year , and tell the story to every soul that comes to the place . ''
`` You ca n't blame him for that , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I shall tell it , too .
I do n't care if the joke is as much on myself as any one .
A story is a story , no matter who it 's on .
But it IS hateful to be laughed at -- and grown-ups always do it .
I never will when I 'm grown up .
I 'll remember better . ''
`` It 's all Peter 's fault , '' said Felicity .
`` I do think he might have had more sense than to take a clock striking for a bell ringing . ''
`` I never heard that kind of a strike before , '' protested Peter .
`` It do n't sound a bit like other clocks .
And the door was shut and the sound kind o ' muffled .
It 's all very fine to say you would have known what it was , but I do n't believe you would . ''
`` I would n't have , '' said the Story Girl honestly .
`` I thought it WAS a bell when I heard it , and the door open , too .
Let us be fair , Felicity . ''
`` I 'm dreadful tired , '' sighed Cecily .
We were all `` dreadful tired , '' for this was the third night of late hours and nerve racking strain .
But it was over two hours since we had eaten the cookies , and Felicity suggested that a saucerful apiece of raspberries and cream would not be hard to take .
It was not , for any one but Cecily , who could n't swallow a mouthful .
`` I 'm glad father and mother will be back to-morrow night , '' she said .
`` It 's too exciting when they 're away .
That 's my opinion . ''
CHAPTER XVII .
THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING Felicity was cumbered with many cares the next morning .
For one thing , the whole house must be put in apple pie order ; and for another , an elaborate supper must be prepared for the expected return of the travellers that night .
Felicity devoted her whole attention to this , and left the secondary preparation of the regular meals to Cecily and the Story Girl .
It was agreed that the latter was to make a cornmeal pudding for dinner .
In spite of her disaster with the bread , the Story Girl had been taking cooking lessons from Felicity all the week , and getting on tolerably well , although , mindful of her former mistake , she never ventured on anything without Felicity 's approval .
But Felicity had no time to oversee her this morning .
`` You must attend to the pudding yourself , '' she said .
`` The recipe 's so plain and simple even you ca n't go astray , and if there 's anything you do n't understand you can ask me .
But do n't bother me if you can help it . ''
The Story Girl did not bother her once .
The pudding was concocted and baked , as the Story Girl proudly informed us when we came to the dinner-table , all on her own hook .
She was very proud of it ; and certainly as far as appearance went it justified her triumph .
The slices were smooth and golden ; and , smothered in the luscious maple sugar sauce which Cecily had compounded , were very fair to view .
Nevertheless , although none of us , not even Uncle Roger or Felicity , said a word at the time , for fear of hurting the Story Girl 's feelings , the pudding did not taste exactly as it should .
It was tough -- decidedly tough -- and lacked the richness of flavour which was customary in Aunt Janet 's cornmeal puddings .
If it had not been for the abundant supply of sauce it would have been very dry eating indeed .
Eaten it was , however , to the last crumb .
If it were not just what a cornmeal pudding might be , the rest of the bill of fare had been extra good and our appetites matched it .
`` I wish I was twins so 's I could eat more , '' said Dan , when he simply had to stop .
`` What good would being twins do you ? ''
asked Peter .
`` People who squint ca n't eat any more than people who do n't squint , can they ? ''
We could not see any connection between Peter 's two questions .
`` What has squinting got to do with twins ? ''
asked Dan .
`` Why , twins are just people that squint , are n't they ? ''
said Peter .
We thought he was trying to be funny , until we found out that he was quite in earnest .
Then we laughed until Peter got sulky .
`` I do n't care , '' he said .
`` How 's a fellow to know ?
Tommy and Adam Cowan , over at Markdale , are twins ; and they 're both cross-eyed .
So I s ` posed that was what being twins meant .
It 's all very fine for you fellows to laugh .
I never went to school half as much as you did ; and you was brought up in Toronto , too .
If you 'd worked out ever since you was seven , and just got to school in the winter , there 'd be lots of things you would n't know , either . ''
`` Never mind , Peter , '' said Cecily .
`` You know lots of things they do n't . ''
But Peter was not to be conciliated , and took himself off in high dudgeon .
To be laughed at before Felicity -- to be laughed at BY Felicity -- was something he could not endure .
Let Cecily and the Story Girl cackle all they wanted to , and let those stuck-up Toronto boys grin like chessy-cats ; but when Felicity laughed at him the iron entered into Peter 's soul .
If the Story Girl laughed at Peter the mills of the gods ground out his revenge for him in mid-afternoon .
Felicity , having used up all the available cooking materials in the house , had to stop perforce ; and she now determined to stuff two new pincushions she had been making for her room .
We heard her rummaging in the pantry as we sat on the cool , spruce-shadowed cellar door outside , where Uncle Roger was showing us how to make elderberry pop-guns .
Presently she came out , frowning .
`` Cecily , do you know where mother put the sawdust she emptied out of that old beaded pincushion of Grandmother King 's , after she had sifted the needles out of it ?
I thought it was in the tin box . ''
`` So it is , '' said Cecily .
`` It is n't .
There is n't a speck of sawdust in that box . ''
The Story Girl 's face wore a quite indescribable expression , compound of horror and shame .
She need not have confessed .
If she had but held her tongue the mystery of the sawdust 's disappearance might have forever remained a mystery .
She WOULD have held her tongue , as she afterwards confided to me , if it had not been for a horrible fear which flashed into her mind that possibly sawdust puddings were not healthy for people to eat -- especially if there might be needles in them -- and that if any mischief had been done in that direction it was her duty to undo it if possible at any cost of ridicule to herself .
`` Oh , Felicity , '' she said , her voice expressing a very anguish of humiliation , `` I -- I -- thought that stuff in the box was cornmeal and used it to make the pudding . ''
Felicity and Cecily stared blankly at the Story Girl .
We boys began to laugh , but were checked midway by Uncle Roger .
He was rocking himself back and forth , with his hand pressed against his stomach .
`` Oh , '' he groaned , `` I 've been wondering what these sharp pains I 've been feeling ever since dinner meant .
I know now .
I must have swallowed a needle -- several needles , perhaps .
I 'm done for ! ''
The poor Story Girl went very white .
`` Oh , Uncle Roger , could it be possible ?
You COULD N'T have swallowed a needle without knowing it .
It would have stuck in your tongue or teeth . ''
`` I did n't chew the pudding , '' groaned Uncle Roger .
`` It was too tough -- I just swallowed the chunks whole . ''
He groaned and twisted and doubled himself up .
But he overdid it .
He was not as good an actor as the Story Girl .
Felicity looked scornfully at him .
`` Uncle Roger , you are not one bit sick , '' she said deliberately .
`` You are just putting on . ''
`` Felicity , if I die from the effects of eating sawdust pudding , flavoured with needles , you 'll be sorry you ever said such a thing to your poor old uncle , '' said Uncle Roger reproachfully .
`` Even if there were no needles in it , sixty-year-old sawdust ca n't be good for my tummy .
I daresay it was n't even clean . ''
`` Well , you know every one has to eat a peck of dirt in his life , '' giggled Felicity .
`` But nobody has to eat it all at once , '' retorted Uncle Roger , with another groan .
`` Oh , Sara Stanley , it 's a thankful man I am that your Aunt Olivia is to be home to-night .
You 'd have me kilt entirely by another day .
I believe you did it on purpose to have a story to tell . ''
Uncle Roger hobbled off to the barn , still holding on to his stomach .
`` Do you think he really feels sick ? ''
asked the Story Girl anxiously .
`` No , I do n't , '' said Felicity .
`` You need n't worry over him .
There 's nothing the matter with him .
I do n't believe there were any needles in that sawdust .
Mother sifted it very carefully . ''
`` I know a story about a man whose son swallowed a mouse , '' said the Story Girl , who would probably have known a story and tried to tell it if she were being led to the stake .
`` And he ran and wakened up a very tired doctor just as he had got to sleep . ''
` Oh , doctor , my son has swallowed a mouse , ' he cried .
` What shall I do ? ' ''
` Tell him to swallow a cat , ' roared the poor doctor , and slammed his door .
`` Now , if Uncle Roger has swallowed any needles , maybe it would make it all right if he swallowed a pincushion . ''
We all laughed .
But Felicity soon grew sober .
`` It seems awful to think of eating a sawdust pudding .
How on earth did you make such a mistake ? ''
`` It looked just like cornmeal , '' said the Story Girl , going from white to red in her shame .
`` Well , I 'm going to give up trying to cook , and stick to things I can do .
And if ever one of you mentions sawdust pudding to me I 'll never tell you another story as long as I live . ''
The threat was effectual .
Never did we mention that unholy pudding .
But the Story Girl could not so impose silence on the grown-ups , especially Uncle Roger .
He tormented her for the rest of the summer .
Never a breakfast did he sit down to , without gravely inquiring if they were sure there was no sawdust in the porridge .
Not a tweak of rheumatism did he feel but he vowed it was due to a needle , travelling about his body .
And Aunt Olivia was warned to label all the pincushions in the house .
`` Contents , sawdust ; not intended for puddings . ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
HOW KISSING WAS DISCOVERED An August evening , calm , golden , dewless , can be very lovely .
At sunset , Felicity , Cecily , and Sara Ray , Dan , Felix , and I were in the orchard , sitting on the cool grasses at the base of the Pulpit Stone .
In the west was a field of crocus sky over which pale cloud blossoms were scattered .
Uncle Roger had gone to the station to meet the travellers , and the dining-room table was spread with a feast of fat things .
`` It 's been a jolly week , take it all round , '' said Felix , `` but I 'm glad the grown-ups are coming back to-night , especially Uncle Alec . ''
`` I wonder if they 'll bring us anything , '' said Dan .
`` I 'm thinking long to hear all about the wedding , '' said Felicity , who was braiding timothy stalks into a collar for Pat .
`` You girls are always thinking about weddings and getting married , '' said Dan contemptuously .
`` We ai n't , '' said Felicity indignantly .
`` I am NEVER going to get married .
I think it is just horrid , so there ! ''
`` I guess you think it would be a good deal horrider not to be , '' said Dan .
`` It depends on who you 're married to , '' said Cecily gravely , seeing that Felicity disdained reply .
`` If you got a man like father it would be all right .
But S'POSEN you got one like Andrew Ward ?
He 's so mean and cross to his wife that she tells him every day she wishes she 'd never set eyes on him . ''
`` Perhaps that 's WHY he 's mean and cross , '' said Felix .
`` I tell you it is n't always the man 's fault , '' said Dan darkly .
`` When I get married I 'll be good to my wife , but I mean to be boss .
When I open my mouth my word will be law . ''
`` If your word is as big as your mouth I guess it will be , '' said Felicity cruelly .
`` I pity the man who gets you , Felicity King , that 's all '' retorted Dan .
`` Now , do n't fight , '' implored Cecily .
`` Who 's fighting ? ''
demanded Dan .
`` Felicity thinks she can say anything she likes to me , but I 'll show her different . ''
Probably , in spite of Cecily 's efforts , a bitter spat would have resulted between Dan and Felicity , had not a diversion been effected at that moment by the Story Girl , who came slowly down Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
`` Just look how the Story Girl has got herself up ! ''
said Felicity .
`` Why , she 's no more than decent ! ''
The Story Girl was barefooted and barearmed , having rolled the sleeves of her pink gingham up to her shoulders .
Around her waist was twisted a girdle of the blood-red roses that bloomed in Aunt Olivia 's garden ; on her sleek curls she wore a chaplet of them ; and her hands were full of them .
She paused under the outmost tree , in a golden-green gloom , and laughed at us over a big branch .
Her wild , subtle , nameless charm clothed her as with a garment .
We always remembered the picture she made there ; and in later days when we read Tennyson 's poems at a college desk , we knew exactly how an oread , peering through the green leaves on some haunted knoll of many fountained Ida , must look .
`` Felicity , '' said the Story Girl reproachfully , `` what have you been doing to Peter ?
He 's up there sulking in the granary , and he wo n't come down , and he says it 's your fault .
You must have hurt his feelings dreadfully . ''
`` I do n't know about his feelings , '' said Felicity , with an angry toss of her shining head , `` but I guess I made his ears tingle all right .
I boxed them both good and hard . ''
`` Oh , Felicity !
What for ? ''
`` Well , he tried to kiss me , that 's what for ! ''
said Felicity , turning very red .
`` As if I would let a hired boy kiss me !
I guess Master Peter wo n't try anything like that again in a hurry . ''
The Story Girl came out of her shadows and sat down beside us on the grass .
`` Well , in that case , '' she said gravely , `` I think you did right to slap his ears -- not because he is a hired boy , but because it would be impertinent in ANY boy .
But talking of kissing makes me think of a story I found in Aunt Olivia 's scrapbook the other day .
Would n't you like to hear it ?
It is called , ` How Kissing Was Discovered . ' ''
`` Was n't kissing always discovered ? ''
asked Dan .
`` Not according to this story .
It was just discovered accidentally . ''
`` Well , let 's hear about it , '' said Felix , `` although I think kissing 's awful silly , and it would n't have mattered much if it had n't ever been discovered . ''
The Story Girl scattered her roses around her on the grass , and clasped her slim hands over her knees .
Gazing dreamily afar at the tinted sky between the apple trees , as if she were looking back to the merry days of the world 's gay youth , she began , her voice giving to the words and fancies of the old tale the delicacy of hoar frost and the crystal sparkle of dew .
`` It happened long , long ago in Greece -- where so many other beautiful things happened .
Before that , nobody had ever heard of kissing .
And then it was just discovered in the twinkling of an eye .
And a man wrote it down and the account has been preserved ever since .
`` There was a young shepherd named Glaucon -- a very handsome young shepherd -- who lived in a little village called Thebes .
It became a very great and famous city afterwards , but at this time it was only a little village , very quiet and simple .
Too quiet for Glaucon 's liking .
He grew tired of it , and he thought he would like to go away from home and see something of the world .
So he took his knapsack and his shepherd 's crook , and wandered away until he came to Thessaly .
That is the land of the gods ' hill , you know .
The name of the hill was Olympus .
But it has nothing to do with this story .
This happened on another mountain -- Mount Pelion .
`` Glaucon hired himself to a wealthy man who had a great many sheep .
And every day Glaucon had to lead the sheep up to pasture on Mount Pelion , and watch them while they ate .
There was nothing else to do , and he would have found the time very long , if he had not been able to play on a flute .
So he played very often and very beautifully , as he sat under the trees and watched the wonderful blue sea afar off , and thought about Aglaia .
`` Aglaia was his master 's daughter .
She was so sweet and beautiful that Glaucon fell in love with her the very moment he first saw her ; and when he was not playing his flute on the mountain he was thinking about Aglaia , and dreaming that some day he might have flocks of his own , and a dear little cottage down in the valley where he and Aglaia might live .
`` Aglaia had fallen in love with Glaucon just as he had with her .
But she never let him suspect it for ever so long .
He did not know how often she would steal up the mountain and hide behind the rocks near where the sheep pastured , to listen to Glaucon 's beautiful music .
It was very lovely music , because he was always thinking of Aglaia while he played , though he little dreamed how near him she often was .
`` But after awhile Glaucon found out that Aglaia loved him , and everything was well .
Nowadays I suppose a wealthy man like Aglaia 's father would n't be willing to let his daughter marry a hired man ; but this was in the Golden Age , you know , when nothing like that mattered at all .
`` After that , almost every day Aglaia would go up the mountain and sit beside Glaucon , as he watched the flocks and played on his flute .
But he did not play as much as he used to , because he liked better to talk with Aglaia .
And in the evening they would lead the sheep home together .
`` One day Aglaia went up the mountain by a new way , and she came to a little brook .
Something was sparkling very brightly among its pebbles .
Aglaia picked it up , and it was the most beautiful little stone that she had ever seen .
It was only as large as a pea , but it glittered and flashed in the sunlight with every colour of the rainbow .
Aglaia was so delighted with it that she resolved to take it as a present to Glaucon .
`` But all at once she heard a stamping of hoofs behind her , and when she turned she almost died from fright .
For there was the great god , Pan , and he was a very terrible object , looking quite as much like a goat as a man .
The gods were not all beautiful , you know .
And , beautiful or not , nobody ever wanted to meet them face to face . ''
` Give that stone to me , ' said Pan , holding out his hand .
`` But Aglaia , though she was frightened , would not give him the stone . '' '
I want it for Glaucon , ' she said . '' '
I want it for one of my wood nymphs , ' said Pan , ` and I must have it . '
`` He advanced threateningly , but Aglaia ran as hard as she could up the mountain .
If she could only reach Glaucon he would protect her .
Pan followed her , clattering and bellowing terribly , but in a few minutes she rushed into Glaucon 's arms .
`` The dreadful sight of Pan and the still more dreadful noise he made , so frightened the sheep that they fled in all directions .
But Glaucon was not afraid at all , because Pan was the god of shepherds , and was bound to grant any prayer a good shepherd , who always did his duty , might make .
If Glaucon had NOT been a good shepherd dear knows what would have happened to him and Aglaia .
But he was ; and when he begged Pan to go away and not frighten Aglaia any more , Pan had to go , grumbling a good deal -- and Pan 's grumblings had a very ugly sound .
But still he WENT , and that was the main thing . ''
` Now , dearest , what is all this trouble about ? '
asked Glaucon ; and Aglaia told him the story . ''
` But where is the beautiful stone ? '
he asked , when she had finished .
` Didst thou drop it in thy alarm ? '
`` No , indeed !
Aglaia had done nothing of the sort .
When she began to run , she had popped it into her mouth , and there it was still , quite safe .
Now she poked it out between her red lips , where it glittered in the sunlight . ''
` Take it , ' she whispered .
`` The question was -- how was he to take it ?
Both of Aglaia 's arms were held fast to her sides by Glaucon 's arms ; and if he loosened his clasp ever so little he was afraid she would fall , so weak and trembling was she from her dreadful fright .
Then Glaucon had a brilliant idea .
He would take the beautiful stone from Aglaia 's lips with his own lips .
`` He bent over until his lips touched hers -- and THEN , he forgot all about the beautiful pebble and so did Aglaia .
Kissing was discovered !
`` What a yarn ! ''
said Dan , drawing a long breath , when we had come to ourselves and discovered that we were really sitting in a dewy Prince Edward Island orchard instead of watching two lovers on a mountain in Thessaly in the Golden Age .
`` I do n't believe a word of it . ''
`` Of course , we know it was n't really true , '' said Felicity .
`` Well , I do n't know , '' said the Story Girl thoughtfully .
`` I think there are two kinds of true things -- true things that ARE , and true things that are NOT , but MIGHT be . ''
`` I do n't believe there 's any but the one kind of trueness , '' said Felicity .
`` And anyway , this story could n't be true .
You know there was no such thing as a god Pan . ''
`` How do you know what there might have been in the Golden Age ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
Which was , indeed , an unanswerable question for Felicity .
`` I wonder what became of the beautiful stone ? ''
said Cecily .
`` Likely Aglaia swallowed it , '' said Felix practically .
`` Did Glaucon and Aglaia ever get married ? ''
asked Sara Ray .
`` The story does n't say .
It stops just there , '' said the Story Girl .
`` But of course they did .
I will tell you what I think .
I do n't think Aglaia swallowed the stone .
I think it just fell to the ground ; and after awhile they found it , and it turned out to be of such value that Glaucon could buy all the flocks and herds in the valley , and the sweetest cottage ; and he and Aglaia were married right away . ''
`` But you only THINK that , '' said Sara Ray .
`` I 'd like to be really sure that was what happened . ''
`` Oh , bother , none of it happened , '' said Dan .
`` I believed it while the Story Girl was telling it , but I do n't now .
Is n't that wheels ? ''
Wheels it was .
Two wagons were driving up the lane .
We rushed to the house -- and there were Uncle Alec and Aunt Janet and Aunt Olivia !
The excitement was quite tremendous .
Every body talked and laughed at once , and it was not until we were all seated around the supper table that conversation grew coherent .
What laughter and questioning and telling of tales followed , what smiles and bright eyes and glad voices .
And through it all , the blissful purrs of Paddy , who sat on the window sill behind the Story Girl , resounded through the din like Andrew McPherson 's bass -- `` just a bur-r-r-r the hale time . ''
`` Well , I 'm thankful to be home again '' said Aunt Janet , beaming on us .
`` We had a real nice time , and Edward 's folks were as kind as could be .
But give me home for a steady thing .
How has everything gone ?
How did the children behave , Roger ? ''
`` Like models , '' said Uncle Roger .
`` They were as good as gold most of the days . ''
There were times when one could n't help liking Uncle Roger .
CHAPTER XIX .
A DREAD PROPHECY `` I 've got to go and begin stumping out the elderberry pasture this afternoon , '' said Peter dolefully .
`` I tell you it 's a tough job .
Mr. Roger might wait for cool weather before he sets people to stumping out elderberries , and that 's a fact . ''
`` Why do n't you tell him so ? ''
asked Dan .
`` It ai n't my business to tell him things , '' retorted Peter .
`` I 'm hired to do what I 'm told , and I do it .
But I can have my own opinion all the same .
It 's going to be a broiling hot day . ''
We were all in the orchard , except Felix , who had gone to the post-office .
It was the forenoon of an August Saturday .
Cecily and Sara Ray , who had come up to spend the day with us -- her mother having gone to town -- were eating timothy roots .
Bertha Lawrence , a Charlottetown girl , who had visited Kitty Marr in June , and had gone to school one day with her , had eaten timothy roots , affecting to consider them great delicacies .
The fad was at once taken up by the Carlisle schoolgirls .
Timothy roots quite ousted `` sours '' and young raspberry sprouts , both of which had the real merit of being quite toothsome , while timothy roots were tough and tasteless .
But timothy roots were fashionable , therefore timothy roots must be eaten .
Pecks of them must have been devoured in Carlisle that summer .
Pat was there also , padding about from one to the other on his black paws , giving us friendly pokes and rubs .
We all made much of him except Felicity , who would not take any notice of him because he was the Story Girl 's cat .
We boys were sprawling on the grass .
Our morning chores were done and the day was before us .
We should have been feeling very comfortable and happy , but , as a matter of fact , we were not particularly so .
The Story Girl was sitting on the mint beside the well-house , weaving herself a wreath of buttercups .
Felicity was sipping from the cup of clouded blue with an overdone air of unconcern .
Each was acutely and miserably conscious of the other 's presence , and each was desirous of convincing the rest of us that the other was less than nothing to her .
Felicity could not succeed .
The Story Girl managed it better .
If it had not been for the fact that in all our foregatherings she was careful to sit as far from Felicity as possible , we might have been deceived .
We had not passed a very pleasant week .
Felicity and the Story Girl had not been `` speaking '' to each other , and consequently there had been something rotten in the state of Denmark .
An air of restraint was over all our games and conversations .
On the preceding Monday Felicity and the Story Girl had quarrelled over something .
What the cause of the quarrel was I can not tell because I never knew .
It remained a `` dead secret '' between the parties of the first and second part forever .
But it was more bitter than the general run of their tiffs , and the consequences were apparent to all .
They had not spoken to each other since .
This was not because the rancour of either lasted so long .
On the contrary it passed speedily away , not even one low descending sun going down on their wrath .
But dignity remained to be considered .
Neither would `` speak first , '' and each obstinately declared that she would not speak first , no , not in a hundred years .
Neither argument , entreaty , nor expostulation had any effect on those two stubborn girls , nor yet the tears of sweet Cecily , who cried every night about it , and mingled in her pure little prayers fervent petitions that Felicity and the Story Girl might make up .
`` I do n't know where you expect to go when you die , Felicity , '' she said tearfully , `` if you do n't forgive people . ''
`` I have forgiven her , '' was Felicity 's answer , `` but I am not going to speak first for all that . ''
`` It 's very wrong , and , more than that , it 's so uncomfortable , '' complained Cecily .
`` It spoils everything . ''
`` Were they ever like this before ? ''
I asked Cecily , as we talked the matter over privately in Uncle Stephen 's Walk .
`` Never for so long , '' said Cecily .
`` They had a spell like this last summer , and one the summer before , but they only lasted a couple of days . ''
`` And who spoke first ? ''
`` Oh , the Story Girl .
She got excited about something and spoke to Felicity before she thought , and then it was all right .
But I 'm afraid it is n't going to be like that this time .
Do n't you notice how careful the Story Girl is not to get excited ?
That is such a bad sign . ''
`` We 've just got to think up something that will excite her , that 's all , '' I said .
`` I 'm -- I 'm praying about it , '' said Cecily in a low voice , her tear-wet lashes trembling against her pale , round cheeks .
`` Do you suppose it will do any good , Bev ? ''
`` Very likely , '' I assured her .
`` Remember Sara Ray and the money .
That came from praying . ''
`` I 'm glad you think so , '' said Cecily tremulously .
`` Dan said it was no use for me to bother praying about it .
He said if they COULD N'T speak God might do something , but when they just WOULD N'T it was n't likely He would interfere .
Dan does say such queer things .
I 'm so afraid he 's going to grow up just like Uncle Robert Ward , who never goes to church , and does n't believe more than half the Bible is true . ''
`` Which half does he believe is true ? ''
I inquired with unholy curiosity .
`` Oh , just the nice parts .
He says there 's a heaven all right , but no -- no -- HELL .
I do n't want Dan to grow up like that .
It is n't respectable .
And you would n't want all kinds of people crowding heaven , now , would you ? ''
`` Well , no , I suppose not , '' I agreed , thinking of Billy Robinson .
`` Of course , I ca n't help feeling sorry for those who have to go to THE OTHER PLACE , '' said Cecily compassionately .
`` But I suppose they would n't be very comfortable in heaven either .
They would n't feel at home .
Andrew Marr said a simply dreadful thing about THE OTHER PLACE one night last fall , when Felicity and I were down to see Kitty , and they were burning the potato stalks .
He said he believed THE OTHER PLACE must be lots more interesting than heaven because fires were such jolly things .
Now , did you ever hear the like ? ''
`` I guess it depends a good deal on whether you 're inside or outside the fires , '' I said .
`` Oh , Andrew did n't really mean it , of course .
He just said it to sound smart and make us stare .
The Marrs are all like that .
But anyhow , I 'm going to keep on praying that something will happen to excite the Story Girl .
I do n't believe there is any use in praying that Felicity will speak first , because I am sure she wo n't . ''
`` But do n't you suppose God could make her ? ''
I said , feeling that it was n't quite fair that the Story Girl should always have to speak first .
If she had spoken first the other times it was surely Felicity 's turn this time .
`` Well , I believe it would puzzle Him , '' said Cecily , out of the depths of her experience with Felicity .
Peter , as was to be expected , took Felicity 's part , and said the Story Girl ought to speak first because she was the oldest .
That , he said , had always been his Aunt Jane 's rule .
Sara Ray thought Felicity should speak first , because the Story Girl was half an orphan .
Felix tried to make peace between them , and met the usual fate of all peacemakers .
The Story Girl loftily told him that he was too young to understand , and Felicity said that fat boys should mind their own business .
After that , Felix declared it would serve Felicity right if the Story Girl never spoke to her again .
Dan had no patience with either of the girls , especially Felicity .
`` What they both want is a right good spanking , '' he said .
If only a spanking would mend the matter it was not likely it would ever be mended .
Both Felicity and the Story Girl were rather too old to be spanked , and , if they had not been , none of the grown-ups would have thought it worth while to administer so desperate a remedy for what they considered so insignificant a trouble .
With the usual levity of grown-ups , they regarded the coldness between the girls as a subject of mirth and jest , and recked not that it was freezing the genial current of our youthful souls , and blighting hours that should have been fair pages in our book of days .
The Story Girl finished her wreath and put it on .
The buttercups drooped over her high , white brow and played peep with her glowing eyes .
A dreamy smile hovered around her poppy-red mouth -- a significant smile which , to those of us skilled in its interpretation , betokened the sentence which soon came .
`` I know a story about a man who always had his own opinion -- '' The Story Girl got no further .
We never heard the story of the man who always had his own opinion .
Felix came tearing up the lane , with a newspaper in his hand .
When a boy as fat as Felix runs at full speed on a broiling August forenoon , he has something to run for -- as Felicity remarked .
`` He must have got some bad news at the office , '' said Sara Ray .
`` Oh , I hope nothing has happened to father , '' I exclaimed , springing anxiously to my feet , a sick , horrible feeling of fear running over me like a cool , rippling wave .
`` It 's just as likely to be good news he is running for as bad , '' said the Story Girl , who was no believer in meeting trouble half way .
`` He would n't be running so fast for good news , '' said Dan cynically .
We were not left long in doubt .
The orchard gate flew open and Felix was among us .
One glimpse of his face told us that he was no bearer of glad tidings .
He had been running hard and should have been rubicund .
Instead , he was `` as pale as are the dead . ''
I could not have asked him what was the matter had my life depended on it .
It was Felicity who demanded impatiently of my shaking , voiceless brother : `` Felix King , what has scared you ? ''
Felix held out the newspaper -- it was the Charlottetown Daily Enterprise .
`` It 's there , '' he gasped .
`` Look -- read -- oh , do you -- think it 's -- true ?
The -- end of -- the world -- is coming to-morrow -- at two -- o'clock -- in the afternoon ! ''
Crash !
Felicity had dropped the cup of clouded blue , which had passed unscathed through so many changing years , and now at last lay shattered on the stone of the well curb .
At any other time we should all have been aghast over such a catastrophe , but it passed unnoticed now .
What mattered it that all the cups in the world be broken to-day if the crack o ' doom must sound to-morrow ?
`` Oh , Sara Stanley , do you believe it ?
DO you ? ''
gasped Felicity , clutching the Story Girl 's hand .
Cecily 's prayer had been answered .
Excitement had come with a vengeance , and under its stress Felicity had spoken first .
But this , like the breaking of the cup , had no significance for us at the moment .
The Story Girl snatched the paper and read the announcement to a group on which sudden , tense silence had fallen .
Under a sensational headline , `` The Last Trump will sound at Two O'clock To-morrow , '' was a paragraph to the effect that the leader of a certain noted sect in the United States had predicted that August twelfth would be the Judgment Day , and that all his numerous followers were preparing for the dread event by prayer , fasting , and the making of appropriate white garments for ascension robes .
I laugh at the remembrance now -- until I recall the real horror of fear that enwrapped us in that sunny orchard that August morning of long ago ; and then I laugh no more .
We were only children , be it remembered , with a very firm and simple faith that grown people knew much more than we did , and a rooted conviction that whatever you read in a newspaper must be true .
If the Daily Enterprise said that August twelfth was to be the Judgment Day how were you going to get around it ?
`` Do you believe it , Sara Stanley ? ''
persisted Felicity .
`` DO you ? ''
`` No -- no , I do n't believe a word of it , '' said the Story Girl .
But for once her voice failed to carry conviction -- or , rather , it carried conviction of the very opposite kind .
It was borne in upon our miserable minds that if the Story Girl did not altogether believe it was true she believed it might be true ; and the possibility was almost as dreadful as the certainty .
`` It CA N'T be true , '' said Sara Ray , seeking refuge , as usual , in tears .
`` Why , everything looks just the same .
Things COULD N'T look the same if the Judgment Day was going to be to-morrow . ''
`` But that 's just the way it 's to come , '' I said uncomfortably .
`` It tells you in the Bible .
It 's to come just like a thief in the night . ''
`` But it tells you another thing in the Bible , too , '' said Cecily eagerly .
`` It says nobody knows when the Judgment Day is to come -- not even the angels in heaven .
Now , if the angels in heaven do n't know it , do you suppose the editor of the Enterprise can know it -- and him a Grit , too ? ''
`` I guess he knows as much about it as a Tory would , '' retorted the Story Girl .
Uncle Roger was a Liberal and Uncle Alec a Conservative , and the girls held fast to the political traditions of their respective households .
`` But it is n't really the Enterprise editor at all who is saying it -- it 's a man in the States who claims to be a prophet .
If he IS a prophet perhaps he has found out somehow . ''
`` And it 's in the paper , too , and that 's printed as well as the Bible , '' said Dan .
`` Well , I 'm going to depend on the Bible , '' said Cecily .
`` I do n't believe it 's the Judgment Day to-morrow -- but I 'm scared , for all that , '' she added piteously .
That was exactly the position of us all .
As in the case of the bell-ringing ghost , we did not believe but we trembled .
`` Nobody might have known when the Bible was written , '' said Dan , `` but maybe somebody knows now .
Why , the Bible was written thousands of years ago , and that paper was printed this very morning .
There 's been time to find out ever so much more . ''
`` I want to do so many things , '' said the Story Girl , plucking off her crown of buttercup gold with a tragic gesture , `` but if it 's the Judgment Day to-morrow I wo n't have time to do any of them . ''
`` It ca n't be much worse than dying , I s ` pose , '' said Felix , grasping at any straw of comfort .
`` I 'm awful glad I 've got into the habit of going to church and Sunday School this summer , '' said Peter very soberly .
`` I wish I 'd made up my mind before this whether to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
Do you s ` pose it 's too late now ? ''
`` Oh , that does n't matter , '' said Cecily earnestly .
`` If -- if you 're a Christian , Peter , that is all that 's necessary . ''
`` But it 's too late for that , '' said Peter miserably .
`` I ca n't turn into a Christian between this and two o'clock to-morrow .
I 'll just have to be satisfied with making up my mind to be a Presbyterian or a Methodist .
I wanted to wait till I got old enough to make out what was the difference between them , but I 'll have to chance it now .
I guess I 'll be a Presbyterian , 'cause I want to be like the rest of you .
Yes , I 'll be a Presbyterian . ''
`` I know a story about Judy Pineau and the word Presbyterian , '' said the Story Girl , `` but I ca n't tell it now .
If to-morrow is n't the Judgment Day I 'll tell it Monday . ''
`` If I had known that to-morrow might be the Judgment Day I would n't have quarrelled with you last Monday , Sara Stanley , or been so horrid and sulky all the week .
Indeed I would n't , '' said Felicity , with very unusual humility .
Ah , Felicity !
We were all , in the depths of our pitiful little souls , reviewing the innumerable things we would or would not have done `` if we had known . ''
What a black and endless list they made -- those sins of omission and commission that rushed accusingly across our young memories !
For us the leaves of the Book of Judgment were already opened ; and we stood at the bar of our own consciences , than which for youth or eld , there can be no more dread tribunal .
I thought of all the evil deeds of my short life -- of pinching Felix to make him cry out at family prayers , of playing truant from Sunday School and going fishing one day , of a certain fib -- no , no away from this awful hour with all such euphonious evasions -- of a LIE I had once told , of many a selfish and unkind word and thought and action .
And to-morrow might be the great and terrible day of the last accounting !
Oh , if I had only been a better boy !
`` The quarrel was as much my fault as yours , Felicity , '' said the Story Girl , putting her arm around Felicity .
`` We ca n't undo it now .
But if to-morrow is n't the Judgment Day we must be careful never to quarrel again .
Oh , I wish father was here . ''
`` He will be , '' said Cecily .
`` If it 's the Judgment Day for Prince Edward Island it will be for Europe , too . ''
`` I wish we could just KNOW whether what the paper says is true or not , '' said Felix desperately .
`` It seems to me I could brace up if I just KNEW . ''
But to whom could we appeal ?
Uncle Alec was away and would not be back until late that night .
Neither Aunt Janet nor Uncle Roger were people to whom we cared to apply in such a crisis .
We were afraid of the Judgment Day ; but we were almost equally afraid of being laughed at .
How about Aunt Olivia ?
`` No , Aunt Olivia has gone to bed with a sick headache and must n't be disturbed , '' said the Story Girl .
`` She said I must get dinner ready , because there was plenty of cold meat , and nothing to do but boil the potatoes and peas , and set the table .
I do n't know how I can put my thoughts into it when the Judgment Day may be to-morrow .
Besides , what is the good of asking the grown-ups ?
They do n't know anything more about this than we do . ''
`` But if they 'd just SAY they did n't believe it , it would be a sort of comfort , '' said Cecily .
`` I suppose the minister would know , but he 's away on his vacation '' said Felicity .
`` Anyhow , I 'll go and ask mother what she thinks of it . ''
Felicity picked up the Enterprise and betook herself to the house .
We awaited her return in dire suspense .
`` Well , what does she say ? ''
asked Cecily tremulously .
`` She said , ` Run away and do n't bother me .
I have n't any time for your nonsense . ' ''
responded Felicity in an injured tone .
`` And I said , ` But , ma , the paper SAYS to-morrow is the Judgment Day , ' and ma just said ` Judgment Fiddlesticks ! ' ''
`` Well , that 's kind of comforting , '' said Peter .
`` She ca n't put any faith in it , or she 'd be more worked up . ''
`` If it only was n't PRINTED ! ''
said Dan gloomily .
`` Let 's all go over and ask Uncle Roger , '' said Felix desperately .
That we should make Uncle Roger a court of last resort indicated all too clearly the state of our minds .
But we went .
Uncle Roger was in his barn-yard , hitching his black mare into the buggy .
His copy of the Enterprise was sticking out of his pocket .
He looked , as we saw with sinking hearts , unusually grave and preoccupied .
There was not a glimmer of a smile about his face .
`` You ask him , '' said Felicity , nudging the Story Girl .
`` Uncle Roger , '' said the Story Girl , the golden notes of her voice threaded with fear and appeal .
`` the Enterprise says that to-morrow is the Judgment Day ?
IS it ?
Do YOU think it is ? ''
`` I 'm afraid so , '' said Uncle Roger gravely .
`` The Enterprise is always very careful to print only reliable news . ''
`` But mother does n't believe it , '' cried Felicity .
Uncle Roger shook his head .
`` That is just the trouble , '' he said .
`` People wo n't believe it till it 's too late .
I 'm going straight to Markdale to pay a man there some money I owe him , and after dinner I 'm going to Summerside to buy me a new suit .
My old one is too shabby for the Judgment Day . ''
He got into his buggy and drove away , leaving eight distracted mortals behind him .
`` Well , I suppose that settles it , '' said Peter , in despairing tone .
`` Is there anything we can do to PREPARE ? ''
asked Cecily .
`` I wish I had a white dress like you girls , '' sobbed Sara Ray .
`` But I have n't , and it 's too late to get one .
Oh , I wish I had minded what ma said better .
I would n't have disobeyed her so often if I 'd thought the Judgment Day was so near .
When I go home I 'm going to tell her about going to the magic lantern show . ''
`` I 'm not sure that Uncle Roger meant what he said , '' remarked the Story Girl .
`` I could n't get a look into his eyes .
If he was trying to hoax us there would have been a twinkle in them .
He can never help that .
You know he would think it a great joke to frighten us like this .
It 's really dreadful to have no grown-ups you can depend on . ''
`` We could depend on father if he was here , '' said Dan stoutly .
`` HE 'D tell us the truth . ''
`` He would tell us what he THOUGHT was true , Dan , but he could n't KNOW .
He 's not such a well-educated man as the editor of the Enterprise .
No , there 's nothing to do but wait and see . ''
`` Let us go into the house and read just what the Bible does say about it , '' suggested Cecily .
We crept in carefully , lest we disturb Aunt Olivia , and Cecily found and read the significant portion of Holy Writ .
There was little comfort for us in that vivid and terrible picture .
`` Well , '' said the Story Girl finally .
`` I must go and get the potatoes ready .
I suppose they must be boiled even if it is the Judgment Day to-morrow .
But I do n't believe it is . ''
`` And I 've got to go and stump elderberries , '' said Peter .
`` I do n't see how I can do it -- go away back there alone .
I 'll feel scared to death the whole time . ''
`` Tell Uncle Roger that , and say if to-morrow is the end of the world that there is no good in stumping any more fields , '' I suggested .
`` Yes , and if he lets you off then we 'll know he was in earnest , '' chimed in Cecily .
`` But if he still says you must go that 'll be a sign he does n't believe it . ''
Leaving the Story Girl and Peter to peel their potatoes , the rest of us went home , where Aunt Janet , who had gone to the well and found the fragments of the old blue cup , gave poor Felicity a bitter scolding about it .
But Felicity bore it very patiently -- nay , more , she seemed to delight in it .
`` Ma ca n't believe to-morrow is the last day , or she would n't scold like that , '' she told us ; and this comforted us until after dinner , when the Story Girl and Peter came over and told us that Uncle Roger had really gone to Summerside .
Then we plunged down into fear and wretchedness again .
`` But he said I must go and stump elderberries just the same '' said Peter .
`` He said it might NOT be the Judgment Day to-morrow , though he believed it was , and it would keep me out of mischief .
But I just ca n't stand it back there alone .
Some of you fellows must come with me .
I do n't want you to work , but just for company . ''
It was finally decided that Dan and Felix should go .
I wanted to go also , but the girls protested .
`` YOU must stay and keep us cheered up , '' implored Felicity .
`` I just do n't know how I 'm ever going to put in the afternoon .
I promised Kitty Marr that I 'd go down and spend it with her , but I ca n't now .
And I ca n't knit any at my lace .
I 'd just keep thinking , ` What is the use ?
Perhaps it 'll all be burned up to-morrow . ' ''
So I stayed with the girls , and a miserable afternoon we had of it .
The Story Girl again and again declared that she `` did n't believe it , '' but when we asked her to tell a story , she evaded it with a flimsy excuse .
Cecily pestered at Aunt Janet 's life out , asking repeatedly , `` Ma , will you be washing Monday ? ''
`` Ma , will you be going to prayer meeting Tuesday night ? ''
`` Ma , will you be preserving raspberries next week ? ''
and various similar questions .
It was a huge comfort to her that Aunt Janet always said , `` Yes , '' or `` Of course , '' as if there could be no question about it .
Sara Ray cried until I wondered how one small head could contain all the tears she shed .
But I do not believe she was half as much frightened as disappointed that she had no white dress .
In mid-afternoon Cecily came downstairs with her forget-me-not jug in her hand -- a dainty bit of china , wreathed with dark blue forget-me-nots , which Cecily prized highly , and in which she always kept her toothbrush .
`` Sara , I am going to give you this jug , '' she said solemnly .
Now , Sara had always coveted this particular jug .
She stopped crying long enough to clutch it delightedly .
`` Oh , Cecily , thank you .
But are you sure you wo n't want it back if to-morrow is n't the Judgment Day ? ''
`` No , it 's yours for good , '' said Cecily , with the high , remote air of one to whom forget-me-not jugs and all such pomps and vanities of the world were as a tale that is told .
`` Are you going to give any one your cherry vase ? ''
asked Felicity , trying to speak indifferently .
Felicity had never admired the forget-me-not jug , but she had always hankered after the cherry vase -- an affair of white glass , with a cluster of red glass cherries and golden-green glass leaves on its side , which Aunt Olivia had given Cecily one Christmas .
`` No , I 'm not , '' answered Cecily , with a change of tone .
`` Oh , well , I do n't care , '' said Felicity quickly .
`` Only , if to-morrow is the last day , the cherry vase wo n't be much use to you . ''
`` I guess it will be as much use to me as to any one else , '' said Cecily indignantly .
She had sacrificed her dear forget-me-not jug to satisfy some pang of conscience , or propitiate some threatening fate , but surrender her precious cherry vase she could not and would not .
Felicity need n't be giving any hints !
With the gathering shades of night our plight became pitiful .
In the daylight , surrounded by homely , familiar sights and sounds , it was not so difficult to fortify our souls with a cheering incredulity .
But now , in this time of shadows , dread belief clutched us and wrung us with terror .
If there had been one wise older friend to tell us , in serious fashion , that we need not be afraid , that the Enterprise paragraph was naught save the idle report of a deluded fanatic , it would have been well for us .
But there was not .
Our grown-ups , instead , considered our terror an exquisite jest .
At that very moment , Aunt Olivia , who had recovered from her headache , and Aunt Janet were laughing in the kitchen over the state the children were in because they were afraid the end of the world was close at hand .
Aunt Janet 's throaty gurgle and Aunt Olivia 's trilling mirth floated out through the open window .
`` Perhaps they 'll laugh on the other side of their faces to-morrow , '' said Dan , with gloomy satisfaction .
We were sitting on the cellar hatch , watching what might be our last sunset o'er the dark hills of time .
Peter was with us .
It was his last Sunday to go home , but he had elected to remain .
`` If to-morrow is the Judgment Day I want to be with you fellows , '' he said .
Sara Ray had also yearned to stay , but could not because her mother had told her she must be home before dark .
`` Never mind , Sara , '' comforted Cecily .
`` It 's not to be till two o'clock to-morrow , so you 'll have plenty of time to get up here before anything happens . ''
`` But there might be a mistake , '' sobbed Sara .
`` It might be two o'clock to-night instead of to-morrow . ''
It might , indeed .
This was a new horror , which had not occurred to us .
`` I 'm sure I wo n't sleep a wink to-night , '' said Felix .
`` The paper SAYS two o'clock to-morrow , '' said Dan .
`` You need n't worry , Sara . ''
But Sara departed , weeping .
She did not , however , forget to carry the forget-me-not jug with her .
All things considered , her departure was a relief .
Such a constantly tearful damsel was not a pleasant companion .
Cecily and Felicity and the Story Girl did not cry .
They were made of finer , firmer stuff .
Dry-eyed , with such courage as they might , they faced whatever might be in store for them .
`` I wonder where we 'll all be this time to-morrow night , '' said Felix mournfully , as we watched the sunset between the dark fir boughs .
It was an ominous sunset .
The sun dropped down amid dark , livid clouds , that turned sullen shades of purple and fiery red behind him .
`` I hope we 'll be all together , wherever we are , '' said Cecily gently .
`` Nothing can be so very bad then . ''
`` I 'm going to read the Bible all to-morrow forenoon , '' said Peter .
When Aunt Olivia came out to go home the Story Girl asked her permission to stay all night with Felicity and Cecily .
Aunt Olivia assented lightly , swinging her hat on her arm and including us all in a friendly smile .
She looked very pretty , with her big blue eyes and warm-hued golden hair .
We loved Aunt Olivia ; but just now we resented her having laughed at us with Aunt Janet , and we refused to smile back .
`` What a sulky , sulky lot of little people , '' said Aunt Olivia , going away across the yard , holding her pretty dress up from the dewy grass .
Peter resolved to stay all night with us , too , not troubling himself about anybody 's permission .
When we went to bed it was settling down for a stormy night , and the rain was streaming wetly on the roof , as if the world , like Sara Ray , were weeping because its end was so near .
Nobody forgot or hurried over his prayers that night .
We would dearly have loved to leave the candle burning , but Aunt Janet 's decree regarding this was as inexorable as any of Mede and Persia .
Out the candle must go ; and we lay there , quaking , with the wild rain streaming down on the roof above us , and the voices of the storm wailing through the writhing spruce trees .
CHAPTER XX .
THE JUDGMENT SUNDAY Sunday morning broke , dull and gray .
The rain had ceased , but the clouds hung dark and brooding above a world which , in its windless calm , following the spent storm-throe , seemed to us to be waiting `` till judgment spoke the doom of fate . ''
We were all up early .
None of us , it appeared , had slept well , and some of us not at all .
The Story Girl had been among the latter , and she looked very pale and wan , with black shadows under her deep-set eyes .
Peter , however , had slept soundly enough after twelve o'clock .
`` When you 've been stumping out elderberries all the afternoon it 'll take more than the Judgment Day to keep you awake all night , '' he said .
`` But when I woke up this morning it was just awful .
I 'd forgot it for a moment , and then it all came back with a rush , and I was worse scared than before . ''
Cecily was pale but brave .
For the first time in years she had not put her hair up in curlers on Saturday night .
It was brushed and braided with Puritan simplicity .
`` If it 's the Judgment Day I do n't care whether my hair is curly or not , '' she said .
`` Well , '' said Aunt Janet , when we all descended to the kitchen , `` this is the first time you young ones have ever all got up without being called , and that 's a fact . ''
At breakfast our appetites were poor .
How could the grown-ups eat as they did ?
After breakfast and the necessary chores there was the forenoon to be lived through .
Peter , true to his word , got out his Bible and began to read from the first chapter in Genesis .
`` I wo n't have time to read it all through , I s ` pose , '' he said , `` but I 'll get along as far as I can . ''
There was no preaching in Carlisle that day , and Sunday School was not till the evening .
Cecily got out her Lesson Slip and studied the lesson conscientiously .
The rest of us did not see how she could do it .
We could not , that was very certain .
`` If it is n't the Judgment Day , I want to have the lesson learned , '' she said , `` and if it is I 'll feel I 've done what was right .
But I never found it so hard to remember the Golden Text before . ''
The long dragging hours were hard to endure .
We roamed restlessly about , and went to and fro -- all save Peter , who still steadily read away at his Bible .
He was through Genesis by eleven and beginning on Exodus .
`` There 's a good deal of it I do n't understand , '' he said , `` but I read every word , and that 's the main thing .
That story about Joseph and his brother was so int ` resting I almost forgot about the Judgment Day . ''
But the long drawn out dread was beginning to get on Dan 's nerves .
`` If it is the Judgment Day , '' he growled , as we went in to dinner , `` I wish it 'd hurry up and have it over . ''
`` Oh , Dan ! ''
cried Felicity and Cecily together , in a chorus of horror .
But the Story Girl looked as if she rather sympathized with Dan .
If we had eaten little at breakfast we could eat still less at dinner .
After dinner the clouds rolled away , and the sun came joyously and gloriously out .
This , we thought , was a good omen .
Felicity opined that it would n't have cleared up if it was the Judgment Day .
Nevertheless , we dressed ourselves carefully , and the girls put on their white dresses .
Sara Ray came up , still crying , of course .
She increased our uneasiness by saying that her mother believed the Enterprise paragraph , and was afraid that the end of the world was really at hand .
`` That 's why she let me come up , '' she sobbed .
`` If she had n't been afraid I do n't believe she would have let me come up .
But I 'd have died if I could n't have come .
And she was n't a bit cross when I told her I had gone to the magic lantern show .
That 's an awful bad sign .
I had n't a white dress , but I put on my white muslin apron with the frills . ''
`` That seems kind of queer , '' said Felicity doubtfully .
`` You would n't put on an apron to go to church , and so it does n't seems as if it was proper to put it on for Judgment Day either . ''
`` Well , it 's the best I could do , '' said Sara disconsolately .
`` I wanted to have something white on .
It 's just like a dress only it has n't sleeves . ''
`` Let 's go into the orchard and wait , '' said the Story Girl .
`` It 's one o'clock now , so in another hour we 'll know the worst .
We 'll leave the front door open , and we 'll hear the big clock when it strikes two . ''
No better plan being suggested , we betook ourselves to the orchard , and sat on the boughs of Uncle Alec 's tree because the grass was wet .
The world was beautiful and peaceful and green .
Overhead was a dazzling blue sky , spotted with heaps of white cloud .
`` Pshaw , I do n't believe there 's any fear of it being the last day , '' said Dan , beginning a whistle out of sheer bravado .
`` Well , do n't whistle on Sunday anyhow , '' said Felicity severely .
`` I do n't see a thing about Methodists or Presbyterians , as far as I 've gone , and I 'm most through Exodus , '' said Peter suddenly .
`` When does it begin to tell about them ? ''
`` There 's nothing about Methodists or Presbyterians in the Bible , '' said Felicity scornfully .
Peter looked amazed .
`` Well , how did they happen then ? ''
he asked .
`` When did they begin to be ? ''
`` I 've often thought it such a strange thing that there is n't a word about either of them in the Bible , '' said Cecily .
`` Especially when it mentions Baptists -- or at least one Baptist . ''
`` Well , anyhow , '' said Peter , `` even if it is n't the Judgment Day I 'm going to keep on reading the Bible until I 've got clean through .
I never thought it was such an int ` resting book . ''
`` It sounds simply dreadful to hear you call the Bible an interesting book , '' said Felicity , with a shudder at the sacrilege .
`` Why , you might be talking about ANY common book . ''
`` I did n't mean any harm , '' said Peter , crestfallen .
`` The Bible IS an interesting book , '' said the Story Girl , coming to Peter 's rescue .
`` And there are magnificent stories in it -- yes , Felicity , MAGNIFICENT .
If the world does n't come to an end I 'll tell you the story of Ruth next Sunday -- or look here !
I 'll tell it anyhow .
That 's a promise .
Wherever we are next Sunday I 'll tell you about Ruth . ''
`` Why , you would n't tell stories in heaven , '' said Cecily , in a very timid voice .
`` Why not ? ''
said the Story Girl , with a flash of her eyes .
`` Indeed I shall .
I 'll tell stories as long as I 've a tongue to talk with , or any one to listen . ''
Ay , doubtless .
That dauntless spirit would soar triumphantly above the wreck of matter and the crash of worlds , taking with it all its own wild sweetness and daring .
Even the young-eyed cherubim , choiring on meadows of asphodel , might cease their harping for a time to listen to a tale of the vanished earth , told by that golden tongue .
Some vague thought of this was in our minds as we looked at her ; and somehow it comforted us .
Not even the Judgment was so greatly to be feared if after it we were the SAME , our own precious little identities unchanged .
`` It must be getting handy two , '' said Cecily .
`` It seems as if we 'd been waiting here for ever so much longer than an hour . ''
Conversation languished .
We watched and waited nervously .
The moments dragged by , each seeming an hour .
Would two o'clock never come and end the suspense ?
We all became very tense .
Even Peter had to stop reading .
Any unaccustomed sound or sight in the world about us struck on our taut senses like the trump of doom .
A cloud passed over the sun and as the sudden shadow swept across the orchard we turned pale and trembled .
A wagon rumbling over a plank bridge in the hollow made Sara Ray start up with a shriek .
The slamming of a barn door over at Uncle Roger 's caused the cold perspiration to break out on our faces .
`` I do n't believe it 's the Judgment Day , '' said Felix , `` and I never have believed it .
But oh , I wish that clock would strike two . ''
`` Ca n't you tell us a story to pass the time ? ''
I entreated the Story Girl .
She shook her head .
`` No , it would be no use to try .
But if this is n't the Judgment Day I 'll have a great one to tell of us being so scared . ''
Pat presently came galloping up the orchard , carrying in his mouth a big field mouse , which , sitting down before us , he proceeded to devour , body and bones , afterwards licking his chops with great satisfaction .
`` It ca n't be the Judgment Day , '' said Sara Ray , brightening up .
`` Paddy would never be eating mice if it was . ''
`` If that clock does n't soon strike two I shall go out of my seven senses , '' declared Cecily with unusual vehemence .
`` Time always seems long when you 're waiting , '' said the Story Girl .
`` But it does seem as if we had been here more than an hour . ''
`` Maybe the clock struck and we did n't hear it , '' suggested Dan .
`` Somebody 'd better go and see . ''
`` I 'll go , '' said Cecily .
`` I suppose , even if anything happens , I 'll have time to get back to you . ''
We watched her white-clad figure pass through the gate and enter the front door .
A few minutes passed -- or a few years -- we could not have told which .
Then Cecily came running at full speed back to us .
But when she reached us she trembled so much that at first she could not speak .
`` What is it ?
Is it past two ? ''
implored the Story Girl .
`` It 's -- it 's four , '' said Cecily with a gasp .
`` The old clock is n't going .
Mother forgot to wind it up last night and it stopped .
But it 's four by the kitchen clock -- so it is n't the Judgment Day -- and tea is ready -- and mother says to come in . ''
We looked at each other , realizing what our dread had been , now that it was lifted .
It was not the Judgment Day .
The world and life were still before us , with all their potent lure of years unknown .
`` I 'll never believe anything I read in the papers again , '' said Dan , rushing to the opposite extreme .
`` I told you the Bible was more to be depended on than the newspapers , '' said Cecily triumphantly .
Sara Ray and Peter and the Story Girl went home , and we went in to tea with royal appetites .
Afterwards , as we dressed for Sunday School upstairs , our spirits carried us away to such an extent that Aunt Janet had to come twice to the foot of the stairs and inquire severely , `` Children , have you forgotten what day this is ? ''
`` Is n't it nice that we 're going to live a spell longer in this nice world ? ''
said Felix , as we walked down the hill .
`` Yes , and Felicity and the Story Girl are speaking again , '' said Cecily happily .
`` And Felicity DID speak first , '' I said .
`` Yes , but it took the Judgment Day to make her .
I wish , '' added Cecily with a sigh , `` that I had n't been in quite such a hurry giving away my forget-me-not jug . ''
`` And I wish I had n't been in such a hurry deciding I 'd be a Presbyterian , '' said Peter .
`` Well , it 's not too late for that , '' said Dan .
`` You can change your mind now . ''
`` No , sir , '' said Peter with a flash of spirit , `` I ai n't one of the kind that says they 'll be something just because they 're scared , and when the scare is over go back on it .
I said I 'd be Presbyterian and I mean to stick to it . ''
`` You said you knew a story that had something to do with Presbyterians , '' I said to the Story Girl .
`` Tell us it now . ''
`` Oh , no , it is n't the right kind of story to tell on Sunday , '' she replied .
`` But I 'll tell it to-morrow morning . ''
Accordingly , we heard it the next morning in the orchard .
`` Long ago , when Judy Pineau was young , '' said the Story Girl , `` she was hired with Mrs. Elder Frewen -- the first Mrs. Elder Frewen .
Mrs. Frewen had been a school-teacher , and she was very particular as to how people talked , and the grammar they used .
And she did n't like anything but refined words .
One very hot day she heard Judy Pineau say she was ` all in a sweat . '
Mrs. Frewen was greatly shocked , and said , ` Judy , you should n't say that .
It 's horses that sweat .
You should say you are in a perspiration . '
Well , Judy promised she 'd remember , because she liked Mrs. Frewen and was anxious to please her .
Not long afterwards Judy was scrubbing the kitchen floor one morning , and when Mrs. Frewen came in Judy looked up and said , quite proud over using the right word , ` Oh , Mees Frewen , ai n't it awful hot ?
I declare I 'm all in a Presbyterian . ' ''
CHAPTER XXI .
DREAMERS OF DREAMS August went out and September came in .
Harvest was ended ; and though summer was not yet gone , her face was turned westering .
The asters lettered her retreating footsteps in a purple script , and over the hills and valleys hung a faint blue smoke , as if Nature were worshipping at her woodland altar .
The apples began to burn red on the bending boughs ; crickets sang day and night ; squirrels chattered secrets of Polichinelle in the spruces ; the sunshine was as thick and yellow as molten gold ; school opened , and we small denizens of the hill farms lived happy days of harmless work and necessary play , closing in nights of peaceful , undisturbed slumber under a roof watched over by autumnal stars .
At least , our slumbers were peaceful and undisturbed until our orgy of dreaming began .
`` I would really like to know what especial kind of deviltry you young fry are up to this time , '' said Uncle Roger one evening , as he passed through the orchard with his gun on his shoulder , bound for the swamp .
We were sitting in a circle before the Pulpit Stone , each writing diligently in an exercise book , and eating the Rev. Mr. Scott 's plums , which always reached their prime of juicy , golden-green flesh and bloomy blue skin in September .
The Rev. Mr. Scott was dead and gone , but those plums certainly kept his memory green , as his forgotten sermons could never have done .
`` Oh , '' said Felicity in a shocked tone , when Uncle Roger had passed by , `` Uncle Roger SWORE . ''
`` Oh , no , he did n't , '' said the Story Girl quickly . ''
` Deviltry ' is n't swearing at all .
It only means extra bad mischief . ''
`` Well , it 's not a very nice word , anyhow , '' said Felicity .
`` No , it is n't , '' agreed the Story Girl with a regretful sigh .
`` It 's very expressive , but it is n't nice .
That is the way with so many words .
They 're expressive , but they 're not nice , and so a girl ca n't use them '' The Story Girl sighed again .
She loved expressive words , and treasured them as some girls might have treasured jewels .
To her , they were as lustrous pearls , threaded on the crimson cord of a vivid fancy .
When she met with a new one she uttered it over and over to herself in solitude , weighing it , caressing it , infusing it with the radiance of her voice , making it her own in all its possibilities for ever .
`` Well , anyhow , it is n't a suitable word in this case , '' insisted Felicity .
`` We are not up to any dev -- any extra bad mischief .
Writing down one 's dreams is n't mischief at all . ''
Certainly it was n't .
Surely not even the straitest sect of the grown-ups could call it so .
If writing down your dreams , with agonizing care as to composition and spelling -- for who knew that the eyes of generations unborn might not read the record ?
-- were not a harmless amusement , could anything be called so ?
I trow not .
We had been at it for a fortnight , and during that time we only lived to have dreams and write them down .
The Story Girl had originated the idea one evening in the rustling , rain-wet ways of the spruce wood , where we were picking gum after a day of showers .
When we had picked enough , we sat down on the moss-grown stones at the end of a long arcade , where it opened out on the harvest-golden valley below us , our jaws exercising themselves vigorously on the spoil of our climbings .
We were never allowed to chew gum in school or in company , but in wood and field , orchard and hayloft , such rules were in abeyance .
`` My Aunt Jane used to say it was n't polite to chew gum anywhere , '' said Peter rather ruefully .
`` I do n't suppose your Aunt Jane knew all the rules of etiquette , '' said Felicity , designing to crush Peter with a big word , borrowed from the Family Guide .
But Peter was not to be so crushed .
He had in him a certain toughness of fibre , that would have been proof against a whole dictionary .
`` She did , too , '' he retorted .
`` My Aunt Jane was a real lady , even if she was only a Craig .
She knew all those rules and she kept them when there was nobody round to see her , just the same as when any one was .
And she was smart .
If father had had half her git-up-and-git I would n't be a hired boy to-day . ''
`` Have you any idea where your father is ? ''
asked Dan .
`` No , '' said Peter indifferently .
`` The last we heard of him he was in the Maine lumber woods .
But that was three years ago .
I do n't know where he is now , and , '' added Peter deliberately , taking his gum from his mouth to make his statement more impressive , `` I do n't care . ''
`` Oh , Peter , that sounds dreadful , '' said Cecily .
`` Your own father ! ''
`` Well , '' said Peter defiantly , `` if your own father had run away when you was a baby , and left your mother to earn her living by washing and working out , I guess you would n't care much about him either . ''
`` Perhaps your father may come home some of these days with a huge fortune , '' suggested the Story Girl .
`` Perhaps pigs may whistle , but they 've poor mouths for it , '' was all the answer Peter deigned to this charming suggestion .
`` There goes Mr. Campbell down the road , '' said Dan .
`` That 's his new mare .
Is n't she a dandy ?
She 's got a skin like black satin .
He calls her Betty Sherman . ''
`` I do n't think it 's very nice to call a horse after your own grandmother , '' said Felicity .
`` Betty Sherman would have thought it a compliment , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Maybe she would .
She could n't have been very nice herself , or she would never have gone and asked a man to marry her , '' said Felicity .
`` Why not ? ''
`` Goodness me , it was dreadful !
Would YOU do such a thing yourself ? ''
`` Well , I do n't know , '' said the Story Girl , her eyes gleaming with impish laughter .
`` If I wanted him DREADFULLY , and HE would n't do the asking , perhaps I would . ''
`` I 'd rather die an old maid forty times over , '' exclaimed Felicity .
`` Nobody as pretty as you will ever be an old maid , Felicity , '' said Peter , who never put too fine an edge on his compliments .
Felicity tossed her golden tressed head and tried to look angry , but made a dismal failure of it .
`` It would n't be ladylike to ask any one to marry you , you know , '' argued Cecily .
`` I do n't suppose the Family Guide would think so , '' agreed the Story Girl lazily , with some sarcasm in her voice .
The Story Girl never held the Family Guide in such reverence as did Felicity and Cecily .
They pored over the `` etiquette column '' every week , and could have told you on demand , just exactly what kind of gloves should be worn at a wedding , what you should say when introducing or being introduced , and how you ought to look when your best young man came to see you .
`` They say Mrs. Richard Cook asked HER husband to marry her , '' said Dan .
`` Uncle Roger says she did n't exactly ask him , but she helped the lame dog over the stile so slick that Richard was engaged to her before he knew what had happened to him , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I know a story about Mrs. Richard Cook 's grandmother .
She was one of those women who are always saying ' I told you so -- ' '' `` Take notice , Felicity , '' said Dan aside . ''
-- And she was very stubborn .
Soon after she was married she and her husband quarrelled about an apple tree they had planted in their orchard .
The label was lost .
He said it was a Fameuse and she declared it was a Yellow Transparent .
They fought over it till the neighbours came out to listen .
Finally he got so angry that he told her to shut up .
They did n't have any Family Guide in those days , so he did n't know it was n't polite to say shut up to your wife .
I suppose she thought she would teach him manners , for would you believe it ?
That woman did shut up , and never spoke one single word to her husband for five years .
And then , in five years ' time , the tree bore apples , and they WERE Yellow Transparents .
And then she spoke at last .
She said , ' I told you so . ' ''
`` And did she talk to him after that as usual ? ''
asked Sara Ray .
`` Oh , yes , she was just the same as she used to be , '' said the Story Girl wearily .
`` But that does n't belong to the story .
It stops when she spoke at last .
You 're never satisfied to leave a story where it should stop , Sara Ray . ''
`` Well , I always like to know what happens afterwards , '' said Sara Ray .
`` Uncle Roger says he would n't want a wife he could never quarrel with , '' remarked Dan .
`` He says it would be too tame a life for him . ''
`` I wonder if Uncle Roger will always stay a bachelor , '' said Cecily .
`` He seems real happy , '' observed Peter .
`` Ma says that it 's all right as long as he is a bachelor because he wo n't take any one , '' said Felicity , `` but if he wakes up some day and finds he is an old bachelor because he ca n't get any one it 'll have a very different flavour . ''
`` If your Aunt Olivia was to up and get married what would your Uncle Roger do for a housekeeper ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Oh , but Aunt Olivia will never be married now , '' said Felicity .
`` Why , she 'll be twenty-nine next January . ''
`` Well , o ' course , that 's pretty old , '' admitted Peter , `` but she might find some one who would n't mind that , seeing she 's so pretty . ''
`` It would be awful splendid and exciting to have a wedding in the family , would n't it ? ''
said Cecily .
`` I 've never seen any one married , and I 'd just love to .
I 've been to four funerals , but not to one single wedding . ''
`` I 've never even got to a funeral , '' said Sara Ray gloomily .
`` There 's the wedding veil of the proud princess , '' said Cecily , pointing to a long drift of filmy vapour in the southwestern sky .
`` And look at that sweet pink cloud below it , '' added Felicity .
`` Maybe that little pink cloud is a dream , getting all ready to float down into somebody 's sleep , '' suggested the Story Girl .
`` I had a perfectly awful dream last night , '' said Cecily , with a shudder of remembrance .
`` I dreamed I was on a desert island inhabited by tigers and natives with two heads . ''
`` Oh ! ''
the Story Girl looked at Cecily half reproachfully .
`` Why could n't you tell it better than that ?
If I had such a dream I could tell it so that everybody else would feel as if they had dreamed it , too . ''
`` Well , I 'm not you , '' countered Cecily , `` and I would n't want to frighten any one as I was frightened .
It was an awful dream -- but it was kind of interesting , too . ''
`` I 've had some real int ` resting dreams , '' said Peter , `` but I ca n't remember them long .
I wish I could . ''
`` Why do n't you write them down ? ''
suggested the Story Girl .
`` Oh -- '' she turned upon us a face illuminated with a sudden inspiration .
`` I 've an idea .
Let us each get an exercise book and write down all our dreams , just as we dream them .
We 'll see who 'll have the most interesting collection .
And we 'll have them to read and laugh over when we 're old and gray . ''
Instantly we all saw ourselves and each other by inner vision , old and gray -- all but the Story Girl .
We could not picture her as old .
Always , as long as she lived , so it seemed to us , must she have sleek brown curls , a voice like the sound of a harpstring in the wind , and eyes that were stars of eternal youth .
CHAPTER XXII .
THE DREAM BOOKS The next day the Story Girl coaxed Uncle Roger to take her to Markdale , and there she bought our dream books .
They were ten cents apiece , with ruled pages and mottled green covers .
My own lies open beside me as I write , its yellowed pages inscribed with the visions that haunted my childish slumbers on those nights of long ago .
On the cover is pasted a lady 's visiting card , on which is written , `` The Dream Book of Beverley King . ''
Cecily had a packet of visiting cards which she was hoarding against the day when she would be grown up and could put the calling etiquette of the Family Guide into practice ; but she generously gave us all one apiece for the covers of our dream books .
As I turn the pages and glance over the na&iuml;ve records , each one beginning , `` Last night I dreamed , '' the past comes very vividly back to me .
I see that bowery orchard , shining in memory with a soft glow of beauty -- `` the light that never was on land or sea , '' -- where we sat on those September evenings and wrote down our dreams , when the cares of the day were over and there was nothing to interfere with the pleasing throes of composition .
Peter -- Dan -- Felix -- Cecily -- Felicity -- Sara Ray -- the Story Girl -- they are all around me once more , in the sweet-scented , fading grasses , each with open dream books and pencil in hand , now writing busily , now staring fixedly into space in search of some elusive word or phrase which might best describe the indescribable .
I hear their laughing voices , I see their bright , unclouded eyes .
In this little , old book , filled with cramped , boyish writing , there is a spell of white magic that sets the years at naught .
Beverley King is a boy once more , writing down his dreams in the old King orchard on the homestead hill , blown over by musky winds .
Opposite to him sits the Story Girl , with her scarlet rosetted head , her beautiful bare feet crossed before her , one slender hand propping her high , white brow , on either side of which fall her glossy curls .
There , to the right , is sweet Cecily of the dear , brown eyes , with a little bloated dictionary beside her -- for you dream of so many things you ca n't spell , or be expected to spell , when you are only eleven .
Next to her sits Felicity , beautiful , and conscious that she is beautiful , with hair of spun sunshine , and sea-blue eyes , and all the roses of that vanished summer abloom in her cheeks .
Peter is beside her , of course , sprawled flat on his stomach among the grasses , one hand clutching his black curls , with his dream book on a small , round stone before him -- for only so can Peter compose at all , and even then he finds it hard work .
He can handle a hoe more deftly than a pencil , and his spelling , even with all his frequent appeals to Cecily , is a fearful and wonderful thing .
As for punctuation , he never attempts it , beyond an occasion period , jotted down whenever he happens to think of it , whether in the right place or not .
The Story Girl goes over his dreams after he has written them out , and puts in the commas and semicolons , and straightens out the sentences .
Felix sits on the right of the Story Girl , fat and stodgy , grimly in earnest even over dreams .
He writes with his knees stuck up to form a writing-desk , and he always frowns fiercely the whole time .
Dan , like Peter , writes lying down flat , but with his back towards us ; and he has a dismal habit of groaning aloud , writhing his whole body , and digging his toes into the grass , when he can not turn a sentence to suit him .
Sara Ray is at his left .
There is seldom anything to be said of Sara except to tell where she is .
Like Tennyson 's Maud , in one respect at least , Sara is splendidly null .
Well , there we sit and write in our dream books , and Uncle Roger passes by and accuses us of being up to dev -- to very bad mischief .
Each of us was very anxious to possess the most exciting record ; but we were an honourable little crew , and I do not think anything was ever written down in those dream books which had not really been dreamed .
We had expected that the Story Girl would eclipse us all in the matter of dreams ; but , at least in the beginning , her dreams were no more remarkable than those of the rest of us .
In dreamland we were all equal .
Cecily , indeed , seemed to have the most decided talent for dramatic dreams .
That meekest and mildest of girls was in the habit of dreaming truly terrible things .
Almost every night battle , murder , or sudden death played some part in her visions .
On the other hand , Dan , who was a somewhat truculent fellow , addicted to the perusal of lurid dime novels which he borrowed from the other boys in school , dreamed dreams of such a peaceful and pastoral character that he was quite disgusted with the resulting tame pages of his dream book .
But if the Story Girl could not dream anything more wonderful than the rest of us , she scored when it came to the telling .
To hear her tell a dream was as good -- or as bad -- as dreaming it yourself .
As far as writing them down was concerned , I believe that I , Beverley King , carried off the palm .
I was considered to possess a pretty knack of composition .
But the Story Girl went me one better even there , because , having inherited something of her father 's talent for drawing , she illustrated her dreams with sketches that certainly caught the spirit of them , whatever might be said of their technical excellence .
She had an especial knack for drawing monstrosities ; and I vividly recall the picture of an enormous and hideous lizard , looking like a reptile of the pterodactyl period , which she had dreamed of seeing crawl across the roof of the house .
On another occasion she had a frightful dream -- at least , it seemed frightful while she told us and described the dreadful feeling it had given her -- of being chased around the parlour by the ottoman , which made faces at her .
She drew a picture of the grimacing ottoman on the margin of her dream book which so scared Sara Ray when she beheld it that she cried all the way home , and insisted on sleeping that night with Judy Pineau lest the furniture take to pursuing her also .
Sara Ray 's own dreams never amounted to much .
She was always in trouble of some sort -- could n't get her hair braided , or her shoes on the right feet .
Consequently , her dream book was very monotonous .
The only thing worth mentioning in the way of dreams that Sara Ray ever achieved was when she dreamed that she went up in a balloon and fell out .
`` I expected to come down with an awful thud , '' she said shuddering , `` but I lit as light as a feather and woke right up . ''
`` If you had n't woke up you 'd have died , '' said Peter with a dark significance .
`` If you dream of falling and DO N'T wake you DO land with a thud and it kills you .
That 's what happens to people who die in their sleep . ''
`` How do you know ? ''
asked Dan skeptically .
`` Nobody who died in his sleep could ever tell it . ''
`` My Aunt Jane told me so , '' said Peter .
`` I suppose that settles it , '' said Felicity disagreeably .
`` You always say something nasty when I mention my Aunt Jane , '' said Peter reproachfully .
`` What did I say that was nasty ? ''
cried Felicity .
`` I did n't say a single thing . ''
`` Well , it sounded nasty , '' said Peter , who knew that it is the tone that makes the music .
`` What did your Aunt Jane look like ? ''
asked Cecily sympathetically .
`` Was she pretty ? ''
`` No , '' conceded Peter reluctantly , `` she was n't pretty -- but she looked like the woman in that picture the Story Girl 's father sent her last week -- the one with the shiny ring round her head and the baby in her lap .
I 've seen Aunt Jane look at me just like that woman looks at her baby .
Ma never looks so .
Poor ma is too busy washing .
I wish I could dream of my Aunt Jane .
I never do . '' ''
` Dream of the dead , you 'll hear of the living , ' '' quoted Felix oracularly .
`` I dreamed last night that I threw a lighted match into that keg of gunpowder in Mr. Cook 's store at Markdale , '' said Peter .
`` It blew up -- and everything blew up -- and they fished me out of the mess -- but I woke up before I 'd time to find out if I was killed or not . ''
`` One is so apt to wake up just as things get interesting , '' remarked the Story Girl discontentedly .
`` I dreamed last night that I had really truly curly hair , '' said Cecily mournfully .
`` And oh , I was so happy !
It was dreadful to wake up and find it as straight as ever . ''
Felix , that sober , solid fellow , dreamed constantly of flying through the air .
His descriptions of his aerial flights over the tree-tops of dreamland always filled us with envy .
None of the rest of us could ever compass such a dream , not even the Story Girl , who might have been expected to dream of flying if anybody did .
Felix had a knack of dreaming anyhow , and his dream book , while suffering somewhat in comparison of literary style , was about the best of the lot when it came to subject matter .
Cecily 's might be more dramatic , but Felix 's was more amusing .
The dream which we all counted his masterpiece was the one in which a menagerie had camped in the orchard and the rhinoceros chased Aunt Janet around and around the Pulpit Stone , but turned into an inoffensive pig when it was on the point of catching her .
Felix had a sick spell soon after we began our dream books , and Aunt Janet essayed to cure him by administering a dose of liver pills which Elder Frewen had assured her were a cure-all for every disease the flesh is heir to .
But Felix flatly refused to take liver pills ; Mexican Tea he would drink , but liver pills he would not take , in spite of his own suffering and Aunt Janet 's commands and entreaties .
I could not understand his antipathy to the insignificant little white pellets , which were so easy to swallow ; but he explained the matter to us in the orchard when he had recovered his usual health and spirits .
`` I was afraid to take the liver pills for fear they 'd prevent me from dreaming , '' he said .
`` Do n't you remember old Miss Baxter in Toronto , Bev ?
And how she told Mrs. McLaren that she was subject to terrible dreams , and finally she took two liver pills and never had any more dreams after that .
I 'd rather have died than risk it , '' concluded Felix solemnly .
`` I 'd an exciting dream last night for once , '' said Dan triumphantly .
`` I dreamt old Peg Bowen chased me .
I thought I was up to her house and she took after me .
You bet I scooted .
And she caught me -- yes , sir !
I felt her skinny hand reach out and clutch my shoulder .
I let out a screech -- and woke up . ''
`` I should think you did screech , '' said Felicity .
`` We heard you clean over into our room . ''
`` I hate to dream of being chased because I can never run , '' said Sara Ray with a shiver .
`` I just stand rooted to the ground -- and see it coming -- and ca n't stir .
It do n't sound much written out , but it 's awful to go through .
I 'm sure I hope I 'll never dream Peg Bowen chases me .
I 'll die if I do . ''
`` I wonder what Peg Bowen would really do to a fellow if she caught him , '' speculated Dan .
`` Peg Bowen does n't need to catch you to do things to you , '' said Peter ominously .
`` She can put ill-luck on you just by looking at you -- and she will if you offend her . ''
`` I do n't believe that , '' said the Story Girl airily .
`` Do n't you ?
All right , then !
Last summer she called at Lem Hill 's in Markdale , and he told her to clear out or he 'd set the dog on her .
Peg cleared out , and she went across his pasture , muttering to herself and throwing her arms round .
And next day his very best cow took sick and died .
How do you account for that ? ''
`` It might have happened anyhow , '' said the Story Girl -- somewhat less assuredly , though .
`` It might .
But I 'd just as soon Peg Bowen did n't look at MY cows , '' said Peter .
`` As if you had any cows ! ''
giggled Felicity .
`` I 'm going to have cows some day , '' said Peter , flushing .
`` I do n't mean to be a hired boy all my life .
I 'll have a farm of my own and cows and everything .
You 'll see if I wo n't . ''
`` I dreamed last night that we opened the blue chest , '' said the Story Girl , `` and all the things were there -- the blue china candlestick -- only it was brass in the dream -- and the fruit basket with the apple on it , and the wedding dress , and the embroidered petticoat .
And we were laughing , and trying the things on , and having such fun .
And Rachel Ward herself came and looked at us -- so sad and reproachful -- and we all felt ashamed , and I began to cry , and woke up crying . ''
`` I dreamed last night that Felix was thin , '' said Peter , laughing .
`` He did look so queer .
His clothes just hung loose , and he was going round trying to hold them on . ''
Everybody thought this was funny , except Felix .
He would not speak to Peter for two days because of it .
Felicity also got into trouble because of her dreams .
One night she woke up , having just had a very exciting dream ; but she went to sleep again , and in the morning she could not remember the dream at all .
Felicity determined she would never let another dream get away from her in such a fashion ; and the next time she wakened in the night -- having dreamed that she was dead and buried -- she promptly arose , lighted a candle , and proceeded to write the dream down then and there .
While so employed she contrived to upset the candle and set fire to her nightgown -- a brand-new one , trimmed with any quantity of crocheted lace .
A huge hole was burned in it , and when Aunt Janet discovered it she lifted up her voice with no uncertain sound .
Felicity had never received a sharper scolding .
But she took it very philosophically .
She was used to her mother 's bitter tongue , and she was not unduly sensitive .
`` Anyhow , I saved my dream , '' she said placidly .
And that , of course , was all that really mattered .
Grown people were so strangely oblivious to the truly important things of life .
Material for new garments , of night or day , could be bought in any shop for a trifling sum and made up out of hand .
But if a dream escape you , in what market-place the wide world over can you hope to regain it ?
What coin of earthly minting will ever buy back for you that lost and lovely vision ?
CHAPTER XXIII .
SUCH STUFF AS DREAMS ARE MADE ON Peter took Dan and me aside one evening , as we were on our way to the orchard with our dream books , saying significantly that he wanted our advice .
Accordingly , we went round to the spruce wood , where the girls would not see us to the rousing of their curiosity , and then Peter told us of his dilemma .
`` Last night I dreamed I was in church , '' he said .
`` I thought it was full of people , and I walked up the aisle to your pew and set down , as unconcerned as a pig on ice .
And then I found that I had n't a stitch of clothes on -- NOT ONE BLESSED STITCH .
Now '' -- Peter dropped his voice -- `` what is bothering me is this -- would it be proper to tell a dream like that before the girls ? ''
I was of the opinion that it would be rather questionable ; but Dan vowed he did n't see why .
HE 'D tell it quick as any other dream .
There was nothing bad in it .
`` But they 're your own relations , '' said Peter .
`` They 're no relation to me , and that makes a difference .
Besides , they 're all such ladylike girls .
I guess I 'd better not risk it .
I 'm pretty sure Aunt Jane would n't think it was proper to tell such a dream .
And I do n't want to offend Fel -- any of them . ''
