So Peter never told that dream , nor did he write it down .
Instead , I remember seeing in his dream book , under the date of September fifteenth , an entry to this effect : -- `` Last nite i dremed a drem .
it wasent a polit drem so i wo n't rite it down . ''
The girls saw this entry but , to their credit be it told , they never tried to find out what the `` drem '' was .
As Peter said , they were `` ladies '' in the best and truest sense of that much abused appellation .
Full of fun and frolic and mischief they were , with all the defects of their qualities and all the wayward faults of youth .
But no indelicate thought or vulgar word could have been shaped or uttered in their presence .
Had any of us boys ever been guilty of such , Cecily 's pale face would have coloured with the blush of outraged purity , Felicity 's golden head would have lifted itself in the haughty indignation of insulted womanhood , and the Story Girl 's splendid eyes would have flashed with such anger and scorn as would have shrivelled the very soul of the wretched culprit .
Dan was once guilty of swearing .
Uncle Alec whipped him for it -- the only time he ever so punished any of his children .
But it was because Cecily cried all night that Dan was filled with saving remorse and repentance .
He vowed next day to Cecily that he would never swear again , and he kept his word .
All at once the Story Girl and Peter began to forge ahead in the matter of dreaming .
Their dreams suddenly became so lurid and dreadful and picturesque that it was hard for the rest of us to believe that they were not painting the lily rather freely in their accounts of them .
But the Story Girl was the soul of honour ; and Peter , early in life , had had his feet set in the path of truthfulness by his Aunt Jane and had never been known to stray from it .
When they assured us solemnly that their dreams all happened exactly as they described them we were compelled to believe them .
But there was something up , we felt sure of that .
Peter and the Story Girl certainly had a secret between them , which they kept for a whole fortnight .
There was no finding it out from the Story Girl .
She had a knack of keeping secrets , anyhow ; and , moreover , all that fortnight she was strangely cranky and petulant , and we found it was not wise to tease her .
She was not well , so Aunt Olivia told Aunt Janet .
`` I do n't know what is the matter with the child , '' said the former anxiously .
`` She has n't seemed like herself the past two weeks .
She complains of headache , and she has no appetite , and she is a dreadful colour .
I 'll have to see a doctor about her if she does n't get better soon . ''
`` Give her a good dose of Mexican Tea and try that first , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` I 've saved many a doctor 's bill in my family by using Mexican Tea . ''
The Mexican Tea was duly administered , but produced no improvement in the condition of the Story Girl , who , however , went on dreaming after a fashion which soon made her dream book a veritable curiosity of literature .
`` If we ca n't soon find out what makes Peter and the Story Girl dream like that , the rest of us might as well give up trying to write dream books , '' said Felix discontentedly .
Finally , we did find out .
Felicity wormed the secret out of Peter by the employment of Delilah wiles , such as have been the undoing of many a miserable male creature since Samson 's day .
She first threatened that she would never speak to him again if he did n't tell her ; and then she promised him that , if he did , she would let him walk beside her to and from Sunday School all the rest of the summer , and carry her books for her .
Peter was not proof against this double attack .
He yielded and told the secret .
I expected the Story Girl would overwhelm him with scorn and indignation .
But she took it very coolly .
`` I knew Felicity would get it out of him sometime , '' she said .
`` I think he has done well to hold out this long . ''
Peter and the Story Girl , so it appeared , had wooed wild dreams to their pillows by the simple device of eating rich , indigestible things before they went to bed .
Aunt Olivia knew nothing about it , of course .
She permitted them only a plain , wholesome lunch at bed-time .
But during the day the Story Girl would smuggle upstairs various tidbits from the pantry , putting half in Peter 's room and half in her own ; and the result was these visions which had been our despair .
`` Last night I ate a piece of mince pie , '' she said , `` and a lot of pickles , and two grape jelly tarts .
But I guess I overdid it , because I got real sick and could n't sleep at all , so of course I did n't have any dreams .
I should have stopped with the pie and pickles and left the tarts alone .
Peter did , and he had an elegant dream that Peg Bowen caught him and put him on to boil alive in that big black pot that hangs outside her door .
He woke up before the water got hot , though .
Well , Miss Felicity , you 're pretty smart .
But how will you like to walk to Sunday School with a boy who wears patched trousers ? ''
`` I wo n't have to , '' said Felicity triumphantly .
`` Peter is having a new suit made .
It 's to be ready by Saturday .
I knew that before I promised . ''
Having discovered how to produce exciting dreams , we all promptly followed the example of Peter and the Story Girl .
`` There is no chance for me to have any horrid dreams , '' lamented Sara Ray , `` because ma wo n't let me having anything at all to eat before I go to bed .
I do n't think it 's fair . ''
`` Ca n't you hide something away through the day as we do ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` No . ''
Sara shook her fawn-coloured head mournfully .
`` Ma always keeps the pantry locked , for fear Judy Pineau will treat her friends . ''
For a week we ate unlawful lunches and dreamed dreams after our own hearts -- and , I regret to say , bickered and squabbled incessantly throughout the daytime , for our digestions went out of order and our tempers followed suit .
Even the Story Girl and I had a fight -- something that had never happened before .
Peter was the only one who kept his normal poise .
Nothing could upset that boy 's stomach .
One night Cecily came into the pantry with a large cucumber , and proceeded to devour the greater part of it .
The grown-ups were away that evening , attending a lecture at Markdale , so we ate our snacks openly , without any recourse to ways that were dark .
I remember I supped that night off a solid hunk of fat pork , topped off with a slab of cold plum pudding .
`` I thought you did n't like cucumber , Cecily , '' Dan remarked .
`` Neither I do , '' said Cecily with a grimace .
`` But Peter says they 're splendid for dreaming .
He et one that night he had the dream about being caught by cannibals .
I 'd eat three cucumbers if I could have a dream like that . ''
Cecily finished her cucumber , and then drank a glass of milk , just as we heard the wheels of Uncle Alec 's buggy rambling over the bridge in the hollow .
Felicity quickly restored pork and pudding to their own places , and by the time Aunt Janet came in we were all in our respective beds .
Soon the house was dark and silent .
I was just dropping into an uneasy slumber when I heard a commotion in the girls ' room across the hall .
Their door opened and through our own open door I saw Felicity 's white-clad figure flit down the stairs to Aunt Janet 's room .
From the room she had left came moans and cries .
`` Cecily 's sick , '' said Dan , springing out of bed .
`` That cucumber must have disagreed with her . ''
In a few minutes the whole house was astir .
Cecily was sick -- very , very sick , there was no doubt of that .
She was even worse than Dan had been when he had eaten the bad berries .
Uncle Alec , tired as he was from his hard day 's work and evening outing , was despatched for the doctor .
Aunt Janet and Felicity administered all the homely remedies they could think of , but to no effect .
Felicity told Aunt Janet of the cucumber , but Aunt Janet did not think the cucumber alone could be responsible for Cecily 's alarming condition .
`` Cucumbers are indigestible , but I never knew of them making any one as sick as this , '' she said anxiously .
`` What made the child eat a cucumber before going to bed ?
I did n't think she liked them . ''
`` It was that wretched Peter , '' sobbed Felicity indignantly .
`` He told her it would make her dream something extra . ''
`` What on earth did she want to dream for ? ''
demanded Aunt Janet in bewilderment .
`` Oh , to have something worth while to write in her dream book , ma .
We all have dream books , you know , and every one wants their own to be the most exciting -- and we 've been eating rich things to make us dream -- and it does -- but if Cecily -- oh , I 'll never forgive myself , '' said Felicity , incoherently , letting all kinds of cats out of the bag in her excitement and alarm .
`` Well , I wonder what on earth you young ones will do next , '' said Aunt Janet in the helpless tone of a woman who gives it up .
Cecily was no better when the doctor came .
Like Aunt Janet , he declared that cucumbers alone would not have made her so ill ; but when he found out that she had drunk a glass of milk also the mystery was solved .
`` Why , milk and cucumbers together make a rank poison , '' he said .
`` No wonder the child is sick .
There -- there now -- '' seeing the alarmed faces around him , `` do n't be frightened .
As old Mrs. Fraser says , ` It 's no deidly . '
It wo n't kill her , but she 'll probably be a pretty miserable girl for two or three days . ''
She was .
And we were all miserable in company .
Aunt Janet investigated the whole affair and the matter of our dream books was aired in family conclave .
I do not know which hurt our feelings most -- the scolding we got from Aunt Janet , or the ridicule which the other grown-ups , especially Uncle Roger , showered on us .
Peter received an extra `` setting down , '' which he considered rank injustice .
`` I did n't tell Cecily to drink the milk , and the cucumber alone would n't have hurt her , '' he grumbled .
Cecily was able to be out with us again that day , so Peter felt that he might venture on a grumble . ''
` Sides , she coaxed me to tell her what would be good for dreams .
I just told her as a favour .
And now your Aunt Janet blames me for the whole trouble . ''
`` And Aunt Janet says we are never to have anything to eat before we go to bed after this except plain bread and milk , '' said Felix sadly .
`` They 'd like to stop us from dreaming altogether if they could , '' said the Story Girl wrathfully .
`` Well , anyway , they ca n't prevent us from growing up , '' consoled Dan .
`` We need n't worry about the bread and milk rule , '' added Felicity .
`` Ma made a rule like that once before , and kept it for a week , and then we just slipped back to the old way .
That will be what will happen this time , too .
But of course we wo n't be able to get any more rich things for supper , and our dreams will be pretty flat after this . ''
`` Well , let 's go down to the Pulpit Stone and I 'll tell you a story I know , '' said the Story Girl .
We went -- and straightway drank of the waters of forgetfulness .
In a brief space we were laughing right merrily , no longer remembering our wrongs at the hands of those cruel grown-ups .
Our laughter echoed back from the barns and the spruce grove , as if elfin denizens of upper air were sharing in our mirth .
Presently , also , the laughter of the grown-ups mingled with ours .
Aunt Olivia and Uncle Roger , Aunt Janet and Uncle Alec , came strolling through the orchard and joined our circle , as they sometimes did when the toil of the day was over , and the magic time ` twixt light and dark brought truce of care and labour .
'T was then we liked our grown-ups best , for then they seemed half children again .
Uncle Roger and Uncle Alec lolled in the grass like boys ; Aunt Olivia , looking more like a pansy than ever in the prettiest dress of pale purple print , with a knot of yellow ribbon at her throat , sat with her arm about Cecily and smiled on us all ; and Aunt Janet 's motherly face lost its every-day look of anxious care .
The Story Girl was in great fettle that night .
Never had her tales sparkled with such wit and archness .
`` Sara Stanley , '' said Aunt Olivia , shaking her finger at her after a side-splitting yarn , `` if you do n't watch out you 'll be famous some day . ''
`` These funny stories are all right , '' said Uncle Roger , `` but for real enjoyment give me something with a creep in it .
Sara , tell us that story of the Serpent Woman I heard you tell one day last summer . ''
The Story Girl began it glibly .
But before she had gone far with it , I , who was sitting beside her , felt an unaccountable repulsion creeping over me .
For the first time since I had known her I wanted to draw away from the Story Girl .
Looking around on the faces of the group , I saw that they all shared my feeling .
Cecily had put her hands over her eyes .
Peter was staring at the Story Girl with a fascinated , horror-strickened gaze .
Aunt Olivia was pale and troubled .
All looked as if they were held prisoners in the bonds of a fearsome spell which they would gladly break but could not .
It was not our Story Girl who sat there , telling that weird tale in a sibilant , curdling voice .
She had put on a new personality like a garment , and that personality was a venomous , evil , loathly thing .
I would rather have died than have touched the slim , brown wrist on which she supported herself .
The light in her narrowed orbs was the cold , merciless gleam of the serpent 's eye .
I felt frightened of this unholy creature who had suddenly come in our dear Story Girl 's place .
When the tale ended there was a brief silence .
Then Aunt Janet said severely , but with a sigh of relief , `` Little girls should n't tell such horrible stories . ''
This truly Aunt Janetian remark broke the spell .
The grown-ups laughed , rather shakily , and the Story Girl -- our own dear Story Girl once more , and no Serpent Woman -- said protestingly , `` Well , Uncle Roger asked me to tell it .
I do n't like telling such stories either .
They make me feel dreadful .
Do you know , for just a little while , I felt exactly like a snake . ''
`` You looked like one , '' said Uncle Roger .
`` How on earth do you do it ? ''
`` I ca n't explain how I do it , '' said the Story Girl perplexedly .
`` It just does itself . ''
Genius can never explain how it does it .
It would not be genius if it could .
And the Story Girl had genius .
As we left the orchard I walked along behind Uncle Roger and Aunt Olivia .
`` That was an uncanny exhibition for a girl of fourteen , you know , Roger , '' said Aunt Olivia musingly .
`` What is in store for that child ? ''
`` Fame , '' said Uncle Roger .
`` If she ever has a chance , that is , and I suppose her father will see to that .
At least , I hope he will .
You and I , Olivia , never had our chance .
I hope Sara will have hers . ''
This was my first inkling of what I was to understand more fully in later years .
Uncle Roger and Aunt Olivia had both cherished certain dreams and ambitions in youth , but circumstances had denied them their `` chance '' and those dreams had never been fulfilled .
`` Some day , Olivia , '' went on Uncle Roger , `` you and I may find ourselves the aunt and uncle of the foremost actress of her day .
If a girl of fourteen can make a couple of practical farmers and a pair of matter-of-fact housewives half believe for ten minutes that she really is a snake , what wo n't she be able to do when she is thirty ?
Here , you , '' added Uncle Roger , perceiving me , `` cut along and get off to your bed .
And mind you do n't eat cucumbers and milk before you go . ''
CHAPTER XXIV .
THE BEWITCHMENT OF PAT We were all in the doleful dumps -- at least , all we `` young fry '' were , and even the grown-ups were sorry and condescended to take an interest in our troubles .
Pat , our own , dear , frolicsome Paddy , was sick again -- very , very sick .
On Friday he moped and refused his saucer of new milk at milking time .
The next morning he stretched himself down on the platform by Uncle Roger 's back door , laid his head on his black paws , and refused to take any notice of anything or anybody .
In vain we stroked and entreated and brought him tidbits .
Only when the Story Girl caressed him did he give one plaintive little mew , as if to ask piteously why she could not do something for him .
At that Cecily and Felicity and Sara Ray all began crying , and we boys felt choky .
Indeed , I caught Peter behind Aunt Olivia 's dairy later in the day , and if ever a boy had been crying I vow that boy was Peter .
Nor did he deny it when I taxed him with it , but he would not give in that he was crying about Paddy .
Nonsense !
`` What were you crying for , then ? ''
I said .
`` I 'm crying because -- because my Aunt Jane is dead , '' said Peter defiantly .
`` But your Aunt Jane died two years ago , '' I said skeptically .
`` Well , ai n't that all the more reason for crying ? ''
retorted Peter .
`` I 've had to do without her for two years , and that 's worse than if it had just been a few days . ''
`` I believe you were crying because Pat is so sick , '' I said firmly .
`` As if I 'd cry about a cat ! ''
scoffed Peter .
And he marched off whistling .
Of course we had tried the lard and powder treatment again , smearing Pat 's paws and sides liberally .
But to our dismay , Pat made no effort to lick it off .
`` I tell you he 's a mighty sick cat , '' said Peter darkly .
`` When a cat do n't care what he looks like he 's pretty far gone . ''
`` If we only knew what was the matter with him we might do something , '' sobbed the Story Girl , stroking her poor pet 's unresponsive head .
`` I could tell you what 's the matter with him , but you 'd only laugh at me , '' said Peter .
We all looked at him .
`` Peter Craig , what do you mean ? ''
asked Felicity . ''
` Zackly what I say . ''
`` Then , if you know what is the matter with Paddy , tell us , '' commanded the Story Girl , standing up .
She said it quietly ; but Peter obeyed .
I think he would have obeyed if she , in that tone and with those eyes , had ordered him to cast himself into the depths of the sea .
I know I should .
`` He 's BEWITCHED -- that 's what 's the matter with him , '' said Peter , half defiantly , half shamefacedly .
`` Bewitched ?
Nonsense ! ''
`` There now , what did I tell you ? ''
complained Peter .
The Story Girl looked at Peter , at the rest of us , and then at poor Pat .
`` How could he be bewitched ? ''
she asked irresolutely , `` and who could bewitch him ? ''
`` I do n't know HOW he was bewitched , '' said Peter .
`` I 'd have to be a witch myself to know that .
But Peg Bowen bewitched him . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said the Story Girl again .
`` All right , '' said Peter .
`` You do n't have to believe me . ''
`` If Peg Bowen could bewitch anything -- and I do n't believe she could -- why should she bewitch Pat ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
`` Everybody here and at Uncle Alec 's is always kind to her . ''
`` I 'll tell you why , '' said Peter .
`` Thursday afternoon , when you fellows were all in school , Peg Bowen came here .
Your Aunt Olivia gave her a lunch -- a good one .
You may laugh at the notion of Peg being a witch , but I notice your folks are always awful good to her when she comes , and awful careful never to offend her . ''
`` Aunt Olivia would be good to any poor creature , and so would mother , '' said Felicity .
`` And of course nobody wants to offend Peg , because she is spiteful , and she once set fire to a man 's barn in Markdale when he offended her .
But she is n't a witch -- that 's ridiculous . ''
`` All right .
But wait till I tell you .
When Peg Bowen was leaving Pat stretched out on the steps .
She tramped on his tail .
You know Pat does n't like to have his tail meddled with .
He slewed himself round and clawed her bare foot .
If you 'd just seen the look she gave him you 'd know whether she was a witch or not .
And she went off down the lane , muttering and throwing her hands round , just like she did in Lem Hill 's cow pasture .
She put a spell on Pat , that 's what she did .
He was sick the next morning . ''
We looked at each other in miserable , perplexed silence .
We were only children -- and we believed that there had been such things as witches once upon a time -- and Peg Bowen WAS an eerie creature .
`` If that 's so -- though I ca n't believe it -- we ca n't do anything , '' said the Story Girl drearily .
`` Pat must die . ''
Cecily began to weep afresh .
`` I 'd do anything to save Pat 's life , '' she said .
`` I 'd BELIEVE anything . ''
`` There 's nothing we can do , '' said Felicity impatiently .
`` I suppose , '' sobbed Cecily , `` we might go to Peg Bowen and ask her to forgive Pat and take the spell off him .
She might , if we apologized real humble . ''
At first we were appalled by the suggestion .
We did n't believe that Peg Bowen was a witch .
But to go to her -- to seek her out in that mysterious woodland retreat of hers which was invested with all the terrors of the unknown !
And that this suggestion should come from timid Cecily , of all people !
But then , there was poor Pat !
`` Would it do any good ? ''
said the Story Girl desperately .
`` Even if she did make Pat sick I suppose it would only make her crosser if we went and accused her of bewitching him .
Besides , she did n't do anything of the sort . ''
But there was some uncertainty in the Story Girl 's voice .
`` It would n't do any harm to try , '' said Cecily .
`` If she did n't make him sick it wo n't matter if she is cross . ''
`` It wo n't matter to Pat , but it might to the one who goes to her , '' said Felicity .
`` She is n't a witch , but she 's a spiteful old woman , and goodness knows what she 'd do to us if she caught us .
I 'm scared of Peg Bowen , and I do n't care who knows it .
Ever since I can mind ma 's been saying , ` If you 're not good Peg Bowen will catch you . ' ''
`` If I thought she really made Pat sick and could make him better , I 'd try to pacify her somehow , '' said the Story Girl decidedly .
`` I 'm frightened of her , too -- but just look at poor , darling Paddy . ''
We looked at Paddy who continued to stare fixedly before him with unwinking eyes .
Uncle Roger came out and looked at him also , with what seemed to us positively brutal unconcern .
`` I 'm afraid it 's all up with Pat , '' he said .
`` Uncle Roger , '' said Cecily imploringly , `` Peter says Peg Bowen has bewitched Pat for scratching her .
Do you think it can be so ? ''
`` Did Pat scratch Peg ? ''
asked Uncle Roger , with a horror-stricken face .
`` Dear me !
Dear me !
That mystery is solved .
Poor Pat ! ''
Uncle Roger nodded his head , as if resigning himself and Pat to the worst .
`` Do you really think Peg Bowen is a witch , Uncle Roger ? ''
demanded the Story Girl incredulously .
`` Do I think Peg Bowen is a witch ?
My dear Sara , what do YOU think of a woman who can turn herself into a black cat whenever she likes ?
Is she a witch ?
Or is she not ?
I leave it to you . ''
`` Can Peg Bowen turn herself into a black cat ? ''
asked Felix , staring .
`` It 's my belief that that is the least of Peg Bowen 's accomplishments , '' answered Uncle Roger .
`` It 's the easiest thing in the world for a witch to turn herself into any animal you choose to mention .
Yes , Pat is bewitched -- no doubt of that -- not the least in the world . ''
`` What are you telling those children such stuff for ? ''
asked Aunt Olivia , passing on her way to the well .
`` It 's an irresistible temptation , '' answered Uncle Roger , strolling over to carry her pail .
`` You can see your Uncle Roger believes Peg is a witch , '' said Peter .
`` And you can see Aunt Olivia does n't , '' I said , `` and I do n't either . ''
`` See here , '' said the Story Girl resolutely , `` I do n't believe it , but there MAY be something in it .
Suppose there is .
The question is , what can we do ? ''
`` I 'll tell you what I 'D do , '' said Peter .
`` I 'd take a present for Peg , and ask her to make Pat well .
I would n't let on I thought she 'd made him sick .
Then she could n't be offended -- and maybe she 'd take the spell off . ''
`` I think we 'd better all give her something , '' said Felicity .
`` I 'm willing to do that .
But who 's going to take the presents to her ? ''
`` We must all go together , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I wo n't , '' cried Sara Ray in terror .
`` I would n't go near Peg Bowen 's house for the world , no matter who was with me . ''
`` I 've thought of a plan , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Let 's all give her something , as Felicity says .
And let us all go up to her place this evening , and if we see her outside we 'll just go quietly and set the things down before her with the letter , and say nothing but come respectfully away . ''
`` If she 'll let us , '' said Dan significantly .
`` Can Peg read a letter ? ''
I asked .
`` Oh , yes .
Aunt Olivia says she is a good scholar .
She went to school and was a smart girl until she became crazy .
We 'll write it very plain . ''
`` What if we do n't see her ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` We 'll put the things on her doorstep then and leave them . ''
`` She may be miles away over the country by this time , '' sighed Cecily , `` and never find them until it 's too late for Pat .
But it 's the only thing to do .
What can we give her ? ''
`` We must n't offer her any money , '' said the Story Girl .
`` She 's very indignant when any one does that .
She says she is n't a beggar .
But she 'll take anything else .
I shall give her my string of blue beads .
She 's fond of finery . ''
`` I 'll give her that sponge cake I made this morning , '' said Felicity .
`` I guess she does n't get sponge cake very often . ''
`` I 've nothing but the rheumatism ring I got as a premium for selling needles last winter , '' said Peter .
`` I 'll give her that .
Even if she has n't got rheumatism it 's a real handsome ring .
It looks like solid gold . ''
`` I 'll give her a roll of peppermint candy , '' said Felix .
`` I 'll give one of those little jars of cherry preserve I made , '' said Cecily .
`` I wo n't go near her , '' quavered Sara Ray , `` but I want to do something for Pat , and I 'll send that piece of apple leaf lace I knit last week . ''
I decided to give the redoubtable Peg some apples from my birthday tree , and Dan declared he would give her a plug of tobacco .
`` Oh , wo n't she be insulted ? ''
exclaimed Felix , rather horrified .
`` Naw , '' grinned Dan .
`` Peg chews tobacco like a man .
She 'd rather have it than your rubbishy peppermints , I can tell you .
I 'll run down to old Mrs. Sampson 's and get a plug . ''
`` Now , we must write the letter and take it and the presents to her right away , before it gets dark , '' said the Story Girl .
We adjourned to the granary to indite the important document , which the Story Girl was to compose .
`` How shall I begin it ? ''
she asked in perplexity .
`` It would never do to say , ` Dear Peg , ' and ` Dear Miss Bowen ' sounds too ridiculous . ''
`` Besides , nobody knows whether she is Miss Bowen or not , '' said Felicity .
`` She went to Boston when she grew up , and some say she was married there and her husband deserted her , and that 's why she went crazy .
If she 's married , she wo n't like being called Miss. '' `` Well , how am I to address her ? ''
asked the Story Girl in despair .
Peter again came to the rescue with a practical suggestion .
`` Begin it , ` Respected Madam , ' '' he said .
`` Ma has a letter a school trustee once writ to my Aunt Jane and that 's how it begins . ''
`` Respected Madam , '' wrote the Story Girl .
`` We want to ask a very great favour of you and we hope you will kindly grant it if you can .
Our favourite cat , Paddy , is very sick , and we are afraid he is going to die .
Do you think you could cure him ?
And will you please try ?
We are all so fond of him , and he is such a good cat , and has no bad habits .
Of course , if any of us tramps on his tail he will scratch us , but you know a cat ca n't bear to have his tail tramped on .
It 's a very tender part of him , and it 's his only way of preventing it , and he does n't mean any harm .
If you can cure Paddy for us we will always be very , very grateful to you .
The accompanying small offerings are a testimonial of our respect and gratitude , and we entreat you to honour us by accepting them .
`` Very respectfully yours , `` SARA STANLEY . ''
`` I tell you that last sentence has a fine sound , '' said Peter admiringly .
`` I did n't make that up , '' admitted the Story Girl honestly .
`` I read it somewhere and remembered it . ''
`` I think it 's TOO fine , '' criticized Felicity .
`` Peg Bowen wo n't know the meaning of such big words . ''
But it was decided to leave them in and we all signed the letter .
Then we got our `` testimonials , '' and started on our reluctant journey to the domains of the witch .
Sara Ray would not go , of course , but she volunteered to stay with Pat while we were away .
We did not think it necessary to inform the grown-ups of our errand , or its nature .
Grown-ups had such peculiar views .
They might forbid our going at all -- and they would certainly laugh at us .
Peg Bowen 's house was nearly a mile away , even by the short cut past the swamp and up the wooded hill .
We went down through the brook field and over the little plank bridge in the hollow , half lost in its surrounding sea of farewell summers .
When we reached the green gloom of the woods beyond we began to feel frightened , but nobody would admit it .
We walked very closely together , and we did not talk .
When you are near the retreat of witches and folk of that ilk the less you say the better , for their feelings are so notoriously touchy .
Of course , Peg was n't a witch , but it was best to be on the safe side .
Finally we came to the lane which led directly to her abode .
We were all very pale now , and our hearts were beating .
The red September sun hung low between the tall spruces to the west .
It did not look to me just right for a sun .
In fact , everything looked uncanny .
I wished our errand were well over .
A sudden bend in the lane brought us out to the little clearing where Peg 's house was before we were half ready to see it .
In spite of my fear I looked at it with some curiosity .
It was a small , shaky building with a sagging roof , set amid a perfect jungle of weeds .
To our eyes , the odd thing about it was that there was no entrance on the ground floor , as there should be in any respectable house .
The only door was in the upper story , and was reached by a flight of rickety steps .
There was no sign of life about the place except -- sight of ill omen -- a large black cat , sitting on the topmost step .
We thought of Uncle Roger 's gruesome hints .
Could that black cat be Peg ?
Nonsense !
But still -- it did n't look like an ordinary cat .
It was so large -- and had such green , malicious eyes !
Plainly , there was something out of the common about the beastie !
In a tense , breathless silence the Story Girl placed our parcels on the lowest step , and laid her letter on the top of the pile .
Her brown fingers trembled and her face was very pale .
Suddenly the door above us opened , and Peg Bowen herself appeared on the threshold .
She was a tall , sinewy old woman , wearing a short , ragged , drugget skirt which reached scantly below her knees , a scarlet print blouse , and a man 's hat .
Her feet , arms , and neck were bare , and she had a battered old clay pipe in her mouth .
Her brown face was seamed with a hundred wrinkles , and her tangled , grizzled hair fell unkemptly over her shoulders .
She was scowling , and her flashing black eyes held no friendly light .
We had borne up bravely enough hitherto , in spite of our inward , unconfessed quakings .
But now our strained nerves gave way , and sheer panic seized us .
Peter gave a little yelp of pure terror .
We turned and fled across the clearing and into the woods .
Down the long hill we tore , like mad , hunted creatures , firmly convinced that Peg Bowen was after us .
Wild was that scamper , as nightmare-like as any recorded in our dream books .
The Story Girl was in front of me , and I can recall the tremendous leaps she made over fallen logs and little spruce bushes , with her long brown curls streaming out behind her from their scarlet fillet .
Cecily , behind me , kept gasping out the contradictory sentences , `` Oh , Bev , wait for me , '' and `` Oh , Bev , hurry , hurry ! ''
More by blind instinct than anything else we kept together and found our way out of the woods .
Presently we were in the field beyond the brook .
Over us was a dainty sky of shell pink , placid cows were pasturing around us ; the farewell summers nodded to us in the friendly breezes .
We halted , with a glad realization that we were back in our own haunts and that Peg Bowen had not caught us .
`` Oh , was n't that an awful experience ? ''
gasped Cecily , shuddering .
`` I would n't go through it again -- I could n't , not even for Pat . ''
`` It come on a fellow so suddent , '' said Peter shamefacedly .
`` I think I could a-stood my ground if I 'd known she was going to come out .
But when she popped out like that I thought I was done for . ''
`` We should n't have run , '' said Felicity gloomily .
`` It showed we were afraid of her , and that always makes her awful cross .
She wo n't do a thing for Pat now . ''
`` I do n't believe she could do anything , anyway , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I think we 've just been a lot of geese . ''
We were all , except Peter , more or less inclined to agree with her .
And the conviction of our folly deepened when we reached the granary and found that Pat , watched over by the faithful Sara Ray , was no better .
The Story Girl announced that she would take him into the kitchen and sit up all night with him .
`` He sha 'n' t die alone , anyway , '' she said miserably , gathering his limp body up in her arms .
We did not think Aunt Olivia would give her permission to stay up ; but Aunt Olivia did .
Aunt Olivia really was a duck .
We wanted to stay with her also , but Aunt Janet would n't hear of such a thing .
She ordered us off to bed , saying that it was positively sinful in us to be so worked up over a cat .
Five heart-broken children , who knew that there are many worse friends than dumb , furry folk , climbed Uncle Alec 's stairs to bed that night .
`` There 's nothing we can do now , except pray God to make Pat better , '' said Cecily .
I must candidly say that her tone savoured strongly of a last resort ; but this was owing more to early training than to any lack of faith on Cecily 's part .
She knew and we knew , that prayer was a solemn rite , not to be lightly held , nor degraded to common uses .
Felicity voiced this conviction when she said , `` I do n't believe it would be right to pray about a cat . ''
`` I 'd like to know why not , '' retorted Cecily , `` God made Paddy just as much as He made you , Felicity King , though perhaps He did n't go to so much trouble .
And I 'm sure He 's abler to help him than Peg Bowen .
Anyhow , I 'm going to pray for Pat with all my might and main , and I 'd like to see you try to stop me .
Of course I wo n't mix it up with more important things .
I 'll just tack it on after I 've finished asking the blessings , but before I say amen . ''
More petitions than Cecily 's were offered up that night on behalf of Paddy .
I distinctly heard Felix -- who always said his prayers in a loud whisper , owing to some lasting conviction of early life that God could not hear him if he did not pray audibly -- mutter pleadingly , after the `` important '' part of his devotions was over , `` Oh , God , please make Pat better by the morning .
PLEASE do . ''
And I , even in these late years of irreverence for the dreams of youth , am not in the least ashamed to confess that when I knelt down to say my boyish prayer , I thought of our little furry comrade in his extremity , and prayed as reverently as I knew how for his healing .
Then I went to sleep , comforted by the simple hope that the Great Father would , after `` important things '' were all attended to , remember poor Pat .
As soon as we were up the next morning we rushed off to Uncle Roger 's .
But we met Peter and the Story Girl in the lane , and their faces were as the faces of those who bring glad tidings upon the mountains .
`` Pat 's better , '' cried the Story Girl , blithe , triumphant .
`` Last night , just at twelve , he began to lick his paws .
Then he licked himself all over and went to sleep , too , on the sofa .
When I woke Pat was washing his face , and he has taken a whole saucerful of milk .
Oh , is n't it splendid ? ''
`` You see Peg Bowen did put a spell on him , '' said Peter , `` and then she took it off . ''
`` I guess Cecily 's prayer had more to do with Pat 's getting better than Peg Bowen , '' said Felicity .
`` She prayed for Pat over and over again .
That is why he 's better . ''
`` Oh , all right , '' said Peter , `` but I 'd advise Pat not to scratch Peg Bowen again , that 's all . ''
`` I wish I knew whether it was the praying or Peg Bowen that cured Pat , '' said Felix in perplexity .
`` I do n't believe it was either of them , '' said Dan .
`` Pat just got sick and got better again of his own accord . ''
`` I 'm going to believe that it was the praying , '' said Cecily decidedly .
`` It 's so much nicer to believe that God cured Pat than that Peg Bowen did . ''
`` But you ought n't to believe a thing just 'cause it would be more comfortable , '' objected Peter .
`` Mind you , I ai n't saying God could n't cure Pat .
But nothing and nobody ca n't ever make me believe that Peg Bowen was n't at the bottom of it all . ''
Thus faith , superstition , and incredulity strove together amongst us , as in all history .
CHAPTER XXV .
A CUP OF FAILURE One warm Sunday evening in the moon of golden-rod , we all , grown-ups and children , were sitting in the orchard by the Pulpit Stone singing sweet old gospel hymns .
We could all sing more or less , except poor Sara Ray , who had once despairingly confided to me that she did n't know what she 'd ever do when she went to heaven , because she could n't sing a note .
That whole scene comes out clearly for me in memory -- the arc of primrose sky over the trees behind the old house , the fruit-laden boughs of the orchard , the bank of golden-rod , like a wave of sunshine , behind the Pulpit Stone , the nameless colour seen on a fir wood in a ruddy sunset .
I can see Uncle Alec 's tired , brilliant , blue eyes , Aunt Janet 's wholesome , matronly face , Uncle Roger 's sweeping blond beard and red cheeks , and Aunt Olivia 's full-blown beauty .
Two voices ring out for me above all others in the music that echoes through the halls of recollection .
Cecily 's sweet and silvery , and Uncle Alec 's fine tenor .
`` If you 're a King , you sing , '' was a Carlisle proverb in those days .
Aunt Julia had been the flower of the flock in that respect and had become a noted concert singer .
The world had never heard of the rest .
Their music echoed only along the hidden ways of life , and served but to lighten the cares of the trivial round and common task .
That evening , after they tired of singing , our grown-ups began talking of their youthful days and doings .
This was always a keen delight to us small fry .
We listened avidly to the tales of our uncles and aunts in the days when they , too -- hard fact to realize -- had been children .
Good and proper as they were now , once , so it seemed , they had gotten into mischief and even had their quarrels and disagreements .
On this particular evening Uncle Roger told many stories of Uncle Edward , and one in which the said Edward had preached sermons at the mature age of ten from the Pulpit Stone fired , as the sequel will show , the Story Girl 's imagination .
`` Ca n't I just see him at it now , '' said Uncle Roger , `` leaning over that old boulder , his cheeks red and his eyes burning with excitement , banging the top of it as he had seen the ministers do in church .
It was n't cushioned , however , and he always bruised his hands in his self-forgetful earnestness .
We thought him a regular wonder .
We loved to hear him preach , but we did n't like to hear him pray , because he always insisted on praying for each of us by name , and it made us feel wretchedly uncomfortable , somehow .
Alec , do you remember how furious Julia was because Edward prayed one day that she might be preserved from vanity and conceit over her singing ? ''
`` I should think I do , '' laughed Uncle Alec .
`` She was sitting right there where Cecily is now , and she got up at once and marched right out of the orchard , but at the gate she turned to call back indignantly , ' I guess you 'd better wait till you 've prayed the conceit out of yourself before you begin on me , Ned King .
I never heard such stuck-up sermons as you preach . '
Ned went on praying and never let on he heard her , but at the end of his prayer he wound up with ` Oh , God , I pray you to keep an eye on us all , but I pray you to pay particular attention to my sister Julia , for I think she needs it even more than the rest of us , world without end , Amen . ' ''
Our uncles roared with laughter over the recollection .
We all laughed , indeed , especially over another tale in which Uncle Edward , leaning too far over the `` pulpit '' in his earnestness , lost his balance altogether and tumbled ingloriously into the grass below .
`` He lit on a big Scotch thistle , '' said Uncle Roger , chuckling , `` and besides that , he skinned his forehead on a stone .
But he was determined to finish his sermon , and finish it he did .
He climbed back into the pulpit , with the tears rolling over his cheeks , and preached for ten minutes longer , with sobs in his voice and drops of blood on his forehead .
He was a plucky little beggar .
No wonder he succeeded in life . ''
`` And his sermons and prayers were always just about as outspoken as those Julia objected to , '' said Uncle Alec .
`` Well , we 're all getting on in life and Edward is gray ; but when I think of him I always see him a little , rosy , curly-headed chap , laying down the law to us from the Pulpit Stone .
It seems like the other day that we were all here together , just as these children are , and now we are scattered everywhere .
Julia in California , Edward in Halifax , Alan in South America , Felix and Felicity and Stephen gone to the land that is very far off . ''
There was a little space of silence ; and then Uncle Alec began , in a low , impressive voice , to repeat the wonderful verses of the ninetieth Psalm -- verses which were thenceforth bound up for us with the beauty of that night and the memories of our kindred .
Very reverently we all listened to the majestic words .
`` Lord , thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations .
Before the mountains were brought forth , or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world , even from everlasting to everlasting thou art God ... For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past , and as a watch in the night ... For all our days are passed away in thy wrath ; we spend our years as a tale that is told .
The days of our years are threescore and ten ; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years yet is their strength , labour and sorrow ; for it is soon cut off and we fly away ... So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom ... Oh , satisfy us early with thy mercy ; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days ... And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us ; and establish thou the work of our hands upon us ; yea , the work of our hands establish thou it . ''
The dusk crept into the orchard like a dim , bewitching personality .
You could see her -- feel her -- hear her .
She tiptoed softly from tree to tree , ever drawing nearer .
Presently her filmy wings hovered over us and through them gleamed the early stars of the autumn night .
The grown-ups rose reluctantly and strolled away ; but we children lingered for a moment to talk over an idea the Story Girl broached -- a good idea , we thought enthusiastically , and one that promised to add considerable spice to life .
We were on the lookout for some new amusement .
Dream books had begun to pall .
We no longer wrote in them very regularly , and our dreams were not what they used to be before the mischance of the cucumber .
So the Story Girl 's suggestion came pat to the psychological moment .
` I 've thought of a splendid plan , '' she said .
`` It just flashed into my mind when the uncles were talking about Uncle Edward .
And the beauty of it is we can play it on Sundays , and you know there are so few things it is proper to play on Sundays .
But this is a Christian game , so it will be all right . ''
`` It is n't like the religious fruit basket game , is it ? ''
asked Cecily anxiously .
We had good reason to hope that it was n't .
One desperate Sunday afternoon , when we had nothing to read and the time seemed endless , Felix had suggested that we have a game of fruit-basket ; only instead of taking the names of fruits , we were to take the names of Bible characters .
This , he argued , would make it quite lawful and proper to play on Sunday .
We , too desirous of being convinced , also thought so ; and for a merry hour Lazarus and Martha and Moses and Aaron and sundry other worthies of Holy Writ had a lively time of it in the King orchard .
Peter having a Scriptural name of his own , did not want to take another ; but we would not allow this , because it would give him an unfair advantage over the rest of us .
It would be so much easier to call out your own name than fit your tongue to an unfamiliar one .
So Peter retaliated by choosing Nebuchadnezzar , which no one could ever utter three times before Peter shrieked it out once .
In the midst of our hilarity , however , Uncle Alec and Aunt Janet came down upon us .
It is best to draw a veil over what followed .
Suffice it to say that the recollection gave point to Cecily 's question .
`` No , it is n't that sort of game at all , '' said the Story Girl .
`` It is this ; each of you boys must preach a sermon , as Uncle Edward used to do .
One of you next Sunday , and another the next , and so on .
And whoever preaches the best sermon is to get a prize . ''
Dan promptly declared he would n't try to preach a sermon ; but Peter , Felix and I thought the suggestion a very good one .
Secretly , I believed I could cut quite a fine figure preaching a sermon .
`` Who 'll give the prize ? ''
asked Felix .
`` I will , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I 'll give that picture father sent me last week . ''
As the said picture was an excellent copy of one of Landseer 's stags , Felix and I were well pleased ; but Peter averred that he would rather have the Madonna that looked like his Aunt Jane , and the Story Girl agreed that if his sermon was the best she would give him that .
`` But who 's to be the judge ? ''
I said , `` and what kind of a sermon would you call the best ? ''
`` The one that makes the most impression , '' answered the Story Girl promptly .
`` And we girls must be the judges , because there 's nobody else .
Now , who is to preach next Sunday ? ''
It was decided that I should lead off , and I lay awake for an extra hour that night thinking what text I should take for the following Sunday .
The next day I bought two sheets of foolscap from the schoolmaster , and after tea I betook myself to the granary , barred the door , and fell to writing my sermon .
I did not find it as easy a task as I had anticipated ; but I pegged grimly away at it , and by dint of severe labour for two evenings I eventually got my four pages of foolscap filled , although I had to pad the subject-matter not a little with verses of quotable hymns .
I had decided to preach on missions , as being a topic more within my grasp than abstruse theological doctrines or evangelical discourses ; and , mindful of the need of making an impression , I drew a harrowing picture of the miserable plight of the heathen who in their darkness bowed down to wood and stone .
Then I urged our responsibility concerning them , and meant to wind up by reciting , in a very solemn and earnest voice , the verse beginning , `` Can we whose souls are lighted . ''
When I had completed my sermon I went over it very carefully again and wrote with red ink -- Cecily made it for me out of an aniline dye -- the word `` thump '' wherever I deemed it advisable to chastise the pulpit .
I have that sermon still , all its red thumps unfaded , lying beside my dream book ; but I am not going to inflict it on my readers .
I am not so proud of it as I once was .
I was really puffed up with earthly vanity over it at that time .
Felix , I thought , would be hard put to it to beat it .
As for Peter , I did not consider him a rival to be feared .
It was unsupposable that a hired boy , with little education and less experience of church-going , should be able to preach better than could I , in whose family there was a real minister .
The sermon written , the next thing was to learn it off by heart and then practise it , thumps included , until I was letter and gesture perfect .
I preached it over several times in the granary with only Paddy , sitting immovably on a puncheon , for audience .
Paddy stood the test fairly well .
At least , he made an adorable listener , save at such times as imaginary rats distracted his attention .
Mr. Marwood had at least three absorbed listeners the next Sunday morning .
Felix , Peter and I were all among the chiels who were taking mental notes on the art of preaching a sermon .
Not a motion , or glance , or intonation escaped us .
To be sure , none of us could remember the text when we got home ; but we knew just how you should throw back your head and clutch the edge of the pulpit with both hands when you announced it .
In the afternoon we all repaired to the orchard , Bibles and hymn books in hand .
We did not think it necessary to inform the grown-ups of what was in the wind .
You could never tell what kink a grown-up would take .
They might not think it proper to play any sort of a game on Sunday , not even a Christian game .
Least said was soonest mended where grown-ups were concerned .
I mounted the pulpit steps , feeling rather nervous , and my audience sat gravely down on the grass before me .
Our opening exercises consisted solely of singing and reading .
We had agreed to omit prayer .
Neither Felix , Peter nor I felt equal to praying in public .
But we took up a collection .
The proceeds were to go to missions .
Dan passed the plate -- Felicity 's rosebud plate -- looking as preternaturally solemn as Elder Frewen himself .
Every one put a cent on it .
Well , I preached my sermon .
And it fell horribly flat .
I realized that , before I was half way through it .
I think I preached it very well ; and never a thump did I forget or misplace .
But my audience was plainly bored .
When I stepped down from the pulpit , after demanding passionately if we whose souls were lighted and so forth , I felt with secret humiliation that my sermon was a failure .
It had made no impression at all .
Felix would be sure to get the prize .
`` That was a very good sermon for a first attempt , '' said the Story Girl graciously .
`` It sounded just like real sermons I have heard . ''
For a moment the charm of her voice made me feel that I had not done so badly after all ; but the other girls , thinking it their duty to pay me some sort of a compliment also , quickly dispelled that pleasing delusion .
`` Every word of it was true , '' said Cecily , her tone unconsciously implying that this was its sole merit .
`` I often feel , '' said Felicity primly , `` that we do n't think enough about the heathens .
We ought to think a great deal more . ''
Sara Ray put the finishing touch to my mortification .
`` It was so nice and short , '' she said .
`` What was the matter with my sermon ? ''
I asked Dan that night .
Since he was neither judge nor competitor I could discuss the matter with him .
`` It was too much like a reg ` lar sermon to be interesting , '' said Dan frankly .
`` I should think the more like a regular sermon it was , the better , '' I said .
`` Not if you want to make an impression , '' said Dan seriously .
`` You must have something sort of different for that .
Peter , now , HE 'LL have something different . ''
`` Oh , Peter !
I do n't believe he can preach a sermon , '' I said .
`` Maybe not , but you 'll see he 'll make an impression , '' said Dan .
Dan was neither the prophet nor the son of a prophet , but he had the second sight for once ; Peter DID make an impression .
CHAPTER XXVI .
PETER MAKES AN IMPRESSION Peter 's turn came next .
He did not write his sermon out .
That , he averred , was too hard work .
Nor did he mean to take a text .
`` Why , who ever heard of a sermon without a text ? ''
asked Felix blankly .
`` I am going to take a SUBJECT instead of a text , '' said Peter loftily .
`` I ai n't going to tie myself down to a text .
And I 'm going to have heads in it -- three heads .
You had n't a single head in yours , '' he added to me .
`` Uncle Alec says that Uncle Edward says that heads are beginning to go out of fashion , '' I said defiantly -- all the more defiantly that I felt I should have had heads in my sermon .
It would doubtless have made a much deeper impression .
But the truth was I had forgotten all about such things .
`` Well , I 'm going to have them , and I do n't care if they are unfashionable , '' said Peter .
`` They 're good things .
Aunt Jane used to say if a man did n't have heads and stick to them he 'd go wandering all over the Bible and never get anywhere in particular . ''
`` What are you going to preach on ? ''
asked Felix .
`` You 'll find out next Sunday , '' said Peter significantly .
The next Sunday was in October , and a lovely day it was , warm and bland as June .
There was something in the fine , elusive air , that recalled beautiful , forgotten things and suggested delicate future hopes .
The woods had wrapped fine-woven gossamers about them and the westering hill was crimson and gold .
We sat around the Pulpit Stone and waited for Peter and Sara Ray .
It was the former 's Sunday off and he had gone home the night before , but he assured us he would be back in time to preach his sermon .
Presently he arrived and mounted the granite boulder as if to the manor born .
He was dressed in his new suit and I , perceiving this , felt that he had the advantage of me .
When I preached I had to wear my second best suit , for it was one of Aunt Janet 's laws that we should take our good suits off when we came home from church .
There were , I saw , compensations for being a hired boy .
Peter made quite a handsome little minister , in his navy blue coat , white collar , and neatly bowed tie .
His black eyes shone , and his black curls were brushed up in quite a ministerial pompadour , but threatened to tumble over at the top in graceless ringlets .
It was decided that there was no use in waiting for Sara Ray , who might or might not come , according to the humour in which her mother was .
Therefore Peter proceeded with the service .
He read the chapter and gave out the hymn with as much SANG FROID as if he had been doing it all his life .
Mr. Marwood himself could not have bettered the way in which Peter said , `` We will sing the whole hymn , omitting the fourth stanza . ''
That was a fine touch which I had not thought of .
I began to think that , after all , Peter might be a foeman worthy of my steel .
When Peter was ready to begin he thrust his hands into his pockets -- a totally unorthodox thing .
Then he plunged in without further ado , speaking in his ordinary conversational tone -- another unorthodox thing .
There was no shorthand reporter present to take that sermon down ; but , if necessary , I could preach it over verbatim , and so , I doubt not , could everyone that heard it .
It was not a forgettable kind of sermon .
`` Dearly beloved , '' said Peter , `` my sermon is about the bad place -- in short , about hell . ''
An electric shock seemed to run through the audience .
Everybody looked suddenly alert .
Peter had , in one sentence , done what my whole sermon had failed to do .
He had made an impression .
`` I shall divide my sermon into three heads , '' pursued Peter .
`` The first head is , what you must not do if you do n't want to go to the bad place .
The second head is , what the bad place is like '' -- sensation in the audience -- `` and the third head is , how to escape going there .
`` Now , there 's a great many things you must not do , and it 's very important to know what they are .
You ought not to lose no time in finding out .
In the first place you must n't ever forget to mind what grown-up people tell you -- that is , GOOD grown-up people . ''
`` But how are you going to tell who are the good grown-up people ? ''
asked Felix suddenly , forgetting that he was in church .
`` Oh , that is easy , '' said Peter .
`` You can always just FEEL who is good and who is n't .
And you must n't tell lies and you must n't murder any one .
You must be specially careful not to murder any one .
You might be forgiven for telling lies , if you was real sorry for them , but if you murdered any one it would be pretty hard to get forgiven , so you 'd better be on the safe side .
And you must n't commit suicide , because if you did that you would n't have any chance of repenting it ; and you must n't forget to say your prayers and you must n't quarrel with your sister . ''
At this point Felicity gave Dan a significant poke with her elbow , and Dan was up in arms at once .
`` Do n't you be preaching at me , Peter Craig , '' he cried out .
`` I wo n't stand it .
I do n't quarrel with my sister any oftener than she quarrels with me .
You can just leave me alone . ''
`` Who 's touching you ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` I did n't mention no names .
A minister can say anything he likes in the pulpit , as long as he does n't mention any names , and nobody can answer back . ''
`` All right , but just you wait till to-morrow , '' growled Dan , subsiding reluctantly into silence under the reproachful looks of the girls .
`` You must not play any games on Sunday , '' went on Peter , `` that is , any week-day games -- or whisper in church , or laugh in church -- I did that once but I was awful sorry -- and you must n't take any notice of Paddy -- I mean of the family cat at family prayers , not even if he climbs up on your back .
And you must n't call names or make faces . ''
`` Amen , '' cried Felix , who had suffered many things because Felicity so often made faces at him .
Peter stopped and glared at him over the edge of the Pulpit Stone .
`` You have n't any business to call out a thing like that right in the middle of a sermon , '' he said .
`` They do it in the Methodist church at Markdale , '' protested Felix , somewhat abashed .
`` I heard them . ''
`` I know they do .
That 's the Methodist way and it is all right for them .
I have n't a word to say against Methodists .
My Aunt Jane was one , and I might have been one myself if I had n't been so scared of the Judgment Day .
But you ai n't a Methodist .
You 're a Presbyterian , ai n't you ? ''
`` Yes , of course .
I was born that way . ''
`` Very well then , you 've got to do things the Presbyterian way .
Do n't let me hear any more of your amens or I 'll amen you . ''
`` Oh , do n't anybody interrupt again , '' implored the Story Girl .
`` It is n't fair .
How can any one preach a good sermon if he is always being interrupted ?
Nobody interrupted Beverley . ''
`` Bev did n't get up there and pitch into us like that , '' muttered Dan .
`` You must n't fight , '' resumed Peter undauntedly .
`` That is , you must n't fight for the fun of fighting , nor out of bad temper .
You must not say bad words or swear .
You must n't get drunk -- although of course you would n't be likely to do that before you grow up , and the girls never .
There 's prob ` ly a good many other things you must n't do , but these I 've named are the most important .
Of course , I 'm not saying you 'll go to the bad place for sure if you do them .
I only say you 're running a risk .
The devil is looking out for the people who do these things and he 'll be more likely to get after them than to waste time over the people who do n't do them .
And that 's all about the first head of my sermon . ''
At this point Sara Ray arrived , somewhat out of breath .
Peter looked at her reproachfully .
`` You 've missed my whole first head , Sara , '' he said .
`` that is n't fair , when you 're to be one of the judges .
I think I ought to preach it over again for you . ''
`` That was really done once .
I know a story about it , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Who 's interrupting now ? ''
aid Dan slyly .
`` Never mind , tell us the story , '' said the preacher himself , eagerly leaning over the pulpit .
`` It was Mr. Scott who did it , '' said the Story Girl .
`` He was preaching somewhere in Nova Scotia , and when he was more than half way through his sermon -- and you know sermons were VERY long in those days -- a man walked in .
Mr. Scott stopped until he had taken his seat .
Then he said , ` My friend , you are very late for this service .
I hope you wo n't be late for heaven .
The congregation will excuse me if I recapitulate the sermon for our friend 's benefit . '
And then he just preached the sermon over again from the beginning .
It is said that that particular man was never known to be late for church again . ''
`` It served him right , '' said Dan , `` but it was pretty hard lines on the rest of the congregation . ''
`` Now , let 's be quiet so Peter can go on with his sermon , '' said Cecily .
Peter squared his shoulders and took hold of the edge of the pulpit .
Never a thump had he thumped , but I realized that his way of leaning forward and fixing this one or that one of his hearers with his eye was much more effective .
`` I 've come now to the second head of my sermon -- what the bad place is like . ''
He proceeded to describe the bad place .
Later on we discovered that he had found his material in an illustrated translation of Dante 's Inferno which had once been given to his Aunt Jane as a school prize .
But at the time we supposed he must be drawing from Biblical sources .
Peter had been reading the Bible steadily ever since what we always referred to as `` the Judgment Sunday , '' and he was by now almost through it .
None of the rest of us had ever read the Bible completely through , and we thought Peter must have found his description of the world of the lost in some portion with which we were not acquainted .
Therefore , his utterances carried all the weight of inspiration , and we sat appalled before his lurid phrases .
He used his own words to clothe the ideas he had found , and the result was a force and simplicity that struck home to our imaginations .
Suddenly Sara Ray sprang to her feet with a scream -- a scream that changed into strange laughter .
We all , preacher included , looked at her aghast .
Cecily and Felicity sprang up and caught hold of her .
Sara Ray was really in a bad fit of hysterics , but we knew nothing of such a thing in our experience , and we thought she had gone mad .
She shrieked , cried , laughed , and flung herself about .
`` She 's gone clean crazy , '' said Peter , coming down out of his pulpit with a very pale face .
`` You 've frightened her crazy with your dreadful sermon , '' said Felicity indignantly .
She and Cecily each took Sara by an arm and , half leading , half carrying , got her out of the orchard and up to the house .
The rest of us looked at each other in terrified questioning .
`` You 've made rather too much of an impression , Peter , '' said the Story Girl miserably .
`` She need n't have got so scared .
If she 'd only waited for the third head I 'd have showed her how easy it was to get clear of going to the bad place and go to heaven instead .
But you girls are always in such a hurry , '' said Peter bitterly .
`` Do you s ` pose they 'll have to take her to the asylum ? ''
said Dan in a whisper .
`` Hush , here 's your father , '' said Felix .
Uncle Alec came striding down the orchard .
We had never before seen Uncle Alec angry .
But there was no doubt that he was very angry .
His blue eyes fairly blazed at us as he said , `` What have you been doing to frighten Sara Ray into such a condition ? ''
`` We -- we were just having a sermon contest , '' explained the Story Girl tremulously .
`` And Peter preached about the bad place , and it frightened Sara .
That is all , Uncle Alec . ''
`` All !
I do n't know what the result will be to that nervous delicate child .
She is shrieking in there and nothing will quiet her .
What do you mean by playing such a game on Sunday , and making a jest of sacred things ?
No , not a word -- '' for the Story Girl had attempted to speak .
`` You and Peter march off home .
And the next time I find you up to such doings on Sunday or any other day I 'll give you cause to remember it to your latest hour . ''
The Story Girl and Peter went humbly home and we went with them .
`` I CA N'T understand grown-up people , '' said Felix despairingly .
`` When Uncle Edward preached sermons it was all right , but when we do it it is ` making a jest of sacred things . '
And I heard Uncle Alec tell a story once about being nearly frightened to death when he was a little boy , by a minister preaching on the end of the world ; and he said , ` That was something like a sermon .
You do n't hear such sermons nowadays . '
But when Peter preaches just such a sermon , it 's a very different story . ''
`` It 's no wonder we ca n't understand the grown-ups , '' said the Story Girl indignantly , `` because we 've never been grown-up ourselves .
But THEY have been children , and I do n't see why they ca n't understand us .
Of course , perhaps we should n't have had the contest on Sundays .
But all the same I think it 's mean of Uncle Alec to be so cross .
Oh , I do hope poor Sara wo n't have to be taken to the asylum . ''
Poor Sara did not have to be .
She was eventually quieted down , and was as well as usual the next day ; and she humbly begged Peter 's pardon for spoiling his sermon .
Peter granted it rather grumpily , and I fear that he never really quite forgave Sara for her untimely outburst .
Felix , too , felt resentment against her , because he had lost the chance of preaching his sermon .
`` Of course I know I would n't have got the prize , for I could n't have made such an impression as Peter , '' he said to us mournfully , `` but I 'd like to have had a chance to show what I could do .
That 's what comes of having those cry-baby girls mixed up in things .
Cecily was just as scared as Sara Ray , but she 'd more sense than to show it like that . ''
`` Well , Sara could n't help it , '' said the Story Girl charitably , `` but it does seem as if we 'd had dreadful luck in everything we 've tried lately .
I thought of a new game this morning , but I 'm almost afraid to mention it , for I suppose something dreadful will come of it , too . ''
`` Oh , tell us , what is it ? ''
everybody entreated .
`` Well , it 's a trial by ordeal , and we 're to see which of us can pass it .
The ordeal is to eat one of the bitter apples in big mouthfuls without making a single face . ''
Dan made a face to begin with .
`` I do n't believe any of us can do that , '' he said .
`` YOU ca n't , if you take bites big enough to fill your mouth , '' giggled Felicity , with cruelty and without provocation .
`` Well , maybe you could , '' retorted Dan sarcastically .
`` You 'd be so afraid of spoiling your looks that you 'd rather die than make a face , I s ` pose , no matter what you et . ''
`` Felicity makes enough faces when there 's nothing to make faces at , '' said Felix , who had been grimaced at over the breakfast table that morning and had n't liked it .
`` I think the bitter apples would be real good for Felix , '' said Felicity .
`` They say sour things make people thin . ''
`` Let 's go and get the bitter apples , '' said Cecily hastily , seeing that Felix , Felicity and Dan were on the verge of a quarrel more bitter than the apples .
We went to the seedling tree and got an apple apiece .
The game was that every one must take a bite in turn , chew it up , and swallow it , without making a face .
Peter again distinguished himself .
He , and he alone , passed the ordeal , munching those dreadful mouthfuls without so much as a change of expression on his countenance , while the facial contortions the rest of us went through baffled description .
In every subsequent trial it was the same .
Peter never made a face , and no one else could help making them .
It sent him up fifty per cent in Felicity 's estimation .
`` Peter is a real smart boy , '' she said to me .
`` It 's such a pity he is a hired boy . ''
But , if we could not pass the ordeal , we got any amount of fun out of it , at least .
Evening after evening the orchard re-echoed to our peals of laughter .
`` Bless the children , '' said Uncle Alec , as he carried the milk pails across the yard .
`` Nothing can quench their spirits for long . ''
CHAPTER XXVII .
THE ORDEAL OF BITTER APPLES I could never understand why Felix took Peter 's success in the Ordeal of Bitter Apples so much to heart .
He had not felt very keenly over the matter of the sermons , and certainly the mere fact that Peter could eat sour apples without making faces did not cast any reflection on the honour or ability of the other competitors .
But to Felix everything suddenly became flat , stale , and unprofitable , because Peter continued to hold the championship of bitter apples .
It haunted his waking hours and obsessed his nights .
I heard him talking in his sleep about it .
If anything could have made him thin the way he worried over this matter would have done it .
For myself , I cared not a groat .
I had wished to be successful in the sermon contest , and felt sore whenever I thought of my failure .
But I had no burning desire to eat sour apples without grimacing , and I did not sympathize over and above with my brother .
When , however , he took to praying about it , I realized how deeply he felt on the subject , and hoped he would be successful .
Felix prayed earnestly that he might be enabled to eat a bitter apple without making a face .
And when he had prayed three nights after this manner , he contrived to eat a bitter apple without a grimace until he came to the last bite , which proved too much for him .
But Felix was vastly encouraged .
`` Another prayer or two , and I 'll be able to eat a whole one , '' he said jubilantly .
But this devoutly desired consummation did not come to pass .
In spite of prayers and heroic attempts , Felix could never get beyond that last bite .
Not even faith and works in combination could avail .
For a time he could not understand this .
But he thought the mystery was solved when Cecily came to him one day and told him that Peter was praying against him .
`` He 's praying that you 'll never be able to eat a bitter apple without making a face , '' she said .
`` He told Felicity and Felicity told me .
She said she thought it was real cute of him .
I think that is a dreadful way to talk about praying and I told her so .
She wanted me to promise not to tell you , but I would n't promise , because I think it 's fair for you to know what is going on . ''
Felix was very indignant -- and aggrieved as well .
`` I do n't see why God should answer Peter 's prayers instead of mine , '' he said bitterly .
`` I 've gone to church and Sunday School all my life , and Peter never went till this summer .
It is n't fair . ''
`` Oh , Felix , do n't talk like that , '' said Cecily , shocked .
`` God MUST be fair .
I 'll tell you what I believe is the reason .
Peter prays three times a day regular -- in the morning and at dinner time and at night -- and besides that , any time through the day when he happens to think of it , he just prays , standing up .
Did you ever hear of such goings-on ? ''
`` Well , he 's got to stop praying against me , anyhow , '' said Felix resolutely .
`` I wo n't put up with it , and I 'll go and tell him so right off . ''
Felix marched over to Uncle Roger 's , and we trailed after , scenting a scene .
We found Peter shelling beans in the granary , and whistling cheerily , as with a conscience void of offence towards all men .
`` Look here , Peter , '' said Felix ominously , `` they tell me that you 've been praying right along that I could n't eat a bitter apple .
Now , I tell you -- '' `` I never did ! ''
exclaimed Peter indignantly .
`` I never mentioned your name .
I never prayed that you could n't eat a bitter apple .
I just prayed that I 'd be the only one that could . ''
`` Well , that 's the same thing , '' cried Felix .
`` You 've just been praying for the opposite to me out of spite .
And you 've got to stop it , Peter Craig . ''
`` Well , I just guess I wo n't , '' said Peter angrily .
`` I 've just as good a right to pray for what I want as you , Felix King , even if you was brought up in Toronto .
I s ` pose you think a hired boy has n't any business to pray for particular things , but I 'll show you .
I 'll just pray for what I please , and I 'd like to see you try and stop me . ''
`` You 'll have to fight me , if you keep on praying against me , '' said Felix .
The girls gasped ; but Dan and I were jubilant , snuffing battle afar off .
`` All right .
I can fight as well as pray . ''
`` Oh , do n't fight , '' implored Cecily .
`` I think it would be dreadful .
Surely you can arrange it some other way .
Let 's all give up the Ordeal , anyway .
There is n't much fun in it .
And then neither of you need pray about it . ''
`` I do n't want to give up the Ordeal , '' said Felix , `` and I wo n't . ''
`` Oh , well , surely you can settle it some way without fighting , '' persisted Cecily .
`` I 'm not wanting to fight , '' said Peter .
`` It 's Felix .
If he do n't interfere with my prayers there 's no need of fighting .
But if he does there 's no other way to settle it . ''
`` But how will that settle it ? ''
asked Cecily .
`` Oh , whoever 's licked will have to give in about the praying , '' said Peter .
`` That 's fair enough .
If I 'm licked I wo n't pray for that particular thing any more . ''
`` It 's dreadful to fight about anything so religious as praying , '' sighed poor Cecily .
`` Why , they were always fighting about religion in old times , '' said Felix .
`` The more religious anything was the more fighting there was about it . ''
`` A fellow 's got a right to pray as he pleases , '' said Peter , `` and if anybody tries to stop him he 's bound to fight .
That 's my way of looking at it . ''
`` What would Miss Marwood say if she knew you were going to fight ? ''
asked Felicity .
Miss Marwood was Felix ' Sunday School teacher and he was very fond of her .
But by this time Felix was quite reckless .
`` I do n't care what she would say , '' he retorted .
Felicity tried another tack .
`` You 'll be sure to get whipped if you fight with Peter , '' she said .
`` You 're too fat to fight . ''
After that , no moral force on earth could have prevented Felix from fighting .
He would have faced an army with banners .
`` You might settle it by drawing lots , '' said Cecily desperately .
`` Drawing lots is wickeder that fighting , '' said Dan .
`` It 's a kind of gambling . ''
`` What would Aunt Jane say if she knew you were going to fight ? ''
Cecily demanded of Peter .
`` Do n't you drag my Aunt Jane into this affair , '' said Peter darkly .
`` You said you were going to be a Presbyterian , '' persisted Cecily .
`` Good Presbyterians do n't fight . ''
`` Oh , do n't they !
I heard your Uncle Roger say that Presbyterians were the best for fighting in the world -- or the worst , I forget which he said , but it means the same thing . ''
Cecily had but one more shot in her locker .
`` I thought you said in your sermon , Master Peter , that people should n't fight . ''
`` I said they ought n't to fight for fun , or for bad temper , '' retorted Peter .
`` This is different .
I know what I 'm fighting for but I ca n't think of the word . ''
`` I guess you mean principle , '' I suggested .
`` Yes , that 's it , '' agreed Peter .
`` It 's all right to fight for principle .
It 's kind of praying with your fists . ''
`` Oh , ca n't you do something to prevent them from fighting , Sara ? ''
pleaded Cecily , turning to the Story Girl , who was sitting on a bin , swinging her shapely bare feet to and fro .
`` It does n't do to meddle in an affair of this kind between boys , '' said the Story Girl sagely .
I may be mistaken , but I do not believe the Story Girl wanted that fight stopped .
And I am far from being sure that Felicity did either .
It was ultimately arranged that the combat should take place in the fir wood behind Uncle Roger 's granary .
It was a nice , remote , bosky place where no prowling grown-up would be likely to intrude .
And thither we all resorted at sunset .
`` I hope Felix will beat , '' said the Story Girl to me , `` not only for the family honour , but because that was a mean , mean prayer of Peter 's .
Do you think he will ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' I confessed dubiously .
`` Felix is too fat .
He 'll get out of breath in no time .
And Peter is such a cool customer , and he 's a year older than Felix .
But then Felix has had some practice .
He has fought boys in Toronto .
And this is Peter 's first fight . ''
`` Did you ever fight ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
`` Once , '' I said briefly , dreading the next question , which promptly came .
`` Who beat ? ''
It is sometimes a bitter thing to tell the truth , especially to a young lady for whom you have a great admiration .
I had a struggle with temptation in which I frankly confess I might have been worsted had it not been for a saving and timely remembrance of a certain resolution made on the day preceding Judgment Sunday .
`` The other fellow , '' I said with reluctant honesty .
`` Well , '' said the Story Girl , `` I think it does n't matter whether you get whipped or not so long as you fight a good , square fight . ''
Her potent voice made me feel that I was quite a hero after all , and the sting went out of my recollection of that old fight .
When we arrived behind the granary the others were all there .
Cecily was very pale , and Felix and Peter were taking off their coats .
There was a pure yellow sunset that evening , and the aisles of the fir wood were flooded with its radiance .
A cool , autumnal wind was whistling among the dark boughs and scattering blood red leaves from the maple at the end of the granary .
`` Now , '' said Dan , `` I 'll count , and when I say three you pitch in , and hammer each other until one of you has had enough .
Cecily , keep quiet .
Now , one -- two -- three ! ''
Peter and Felix `` pitched in , '' with more zeal than discretion on both sides .
As a result , Peter got what later developed into a black eye , and Felix 's nose began to bleed .
Cecily gave a shriek and ran out of the wood .
We thought she had fled because she could not endure the sight of blood , and we were not sorry , for her manifest disapproval and anxiety were damping the excitement of the occasion .
Felix and Peter drew apart after that first onset , and circled about one another warily .
Then , just as they had come to grips again , Uncle Alec walked around the corner of the granary , with Cecily behind him .
He was not angry .
There was a quizzical look in his eyes .
But he took the combatants by their shirt collars and dragged them apart .
`` This stops right here , boys , '' he said .
`` You know I do n't allow fighting . ''
`` Oh , but Uncle Alec , it was this way , '' began Felix eagerly .
`` Peter -- '' `` No , I do n't want to hear about it , '' said Uncle Alec sternly .
`` I do n't care what you were fighting about , but you must settle your quarrels in a different fashion .
Remember my commands , Felix .
Peter , Roger is looking for you to wash his buggy .
Be off . ''
Peter went off rather sullenly , and Felix , also sullenly , sat down and began to nurse his nose .
He turned his back on Cecily .
Cecily `` caught it '' after Uncle Alec had gone .
Dan called her a tell-tale and a baby , and sneered at her until Cecily began to cry .
`` I could n't stand by and watch Felix and Peter pound each other all to pieces , '' she sobbed .
`` They 've been such friends , and it was dreadful to see them fighting . ''
`` Uncle Roger would have let them fight it out , '' said the Story Girl discontentedly .
`` Uncle Roger believes in boys fighting .
He says it 's as harmless a way as any of working off their original sin .
Peter and Felix would n't have been any worse friends after it .
They 'd have been better friends because the praying question would have been settled .
And now it ca n't be -- unless Felicity can coax Peter to give up praying against Felix . ''
For once in her life the Story Girl was not as tactful as her wont .
Or -- is it possible that she said it out of malice prepense ?
At all events , Felicity resented the imputation that she had more influence with Peter than any one else .
`` I do n't meddle with hired boys ' prayers , '' she said haughtily .
`` It was all nonsense fighting about such prayers , anyhow , '' said Dan , who probably thought that since all chance of a fight was over , he might as well avow his real sentiments as to its folly .
`` Just as much nonsense as praying about the bitter apples in the first place . ''
`` Oh , Dan , do n't you believe there is some good in praying ? ''
said Cecily reproachfully .
`` Yes , I believe there 's some good in some kinds of praying , but not in that kind , '' said Dan sturdily .
`` I do n't believe God cares whether anybody can eat an apple without making a face or not . ''
`` I do n't believe it 's right to talk of God as if you were well acquainted with Him , '' said Felicity , who felt that it was a good chance to snub Dan .
`` There 's something wrong somewhere , '' said Cecily perplexedly .
`` We ought to pray for what we want , of that I 'm sure -- and Peter wanted to be the only one who could pass the Ordeal .
It seems as if he must be right -- and yet it does n't seem so .
I wish I could understand it . ''
`` Peter 's prayer was wrong because it was a selfish prayer , I guess , '' said the Story Girl thoughtfully .
`` Felix 's prayer was all right , because it would n't have hurt any one else ; but it was selfish of Peter to want to be the only one .
We must n't pray selfish prayers . ''
`` Oh , I see through it now , '' said Cecily joyfully .
`` Yes , but , '' said Dan triumphantly , `` if you believe God answers prayers about particular things , it was Peter 's prayer He answered .
What do you make of that ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
the Story Girl shook her head impatiently .
`` There 's no use trying to make such things out .
We only get more mixed up all the time .
Let 's leave it alone and I 'll tell you a story .
Aunt Olivia had a letter today from a friend in Nova Scotia , who lives in Shubenacadie .
When I said I thought it a funny name , she told me to go and look in her scrap book , and I would find a story about the origin of the name .
And I did .
Do n't you want to hear it ? ''
Of course we did .
We all sat down at the roots of the firs .
Felix , having finally squared matters with his nose , turned around and listened also .
He would not look at Cecily , but every one else had forgiven her .
The Story Girl leaned that brown head of hers against the fir trunk behind her , and looked up at the apple-green sky through the dark boughs above us .
She wore , I remember , a dress of warm crimson , and she had wound around her head a string of waxberries , that looked like a fillet of pearls .
Her cheeks were still flushed with the excitement of the evening .
In the dim light she was beautiful , with a wild , mystic loveliness , a compelling charm that would not be denied .
`` Many , many moons ago , an Indian tribe lived on the banks of a river in Nova Scotia .
One of the young braves was named Accadee .
He was the tallest and bravest and handsomest young man in the tribe -- '' `` Why is it they 're always so handsome in stories ? ''
asked Dan .
`` Why are there never no stories about ugly people ? ''
`` Perhaps ugly people never have stories happen to them , '' suggested Felicity .
`` I think they 're just as interesting as the handsome people , '' retorted Dan .
`` Well , maybe they are in real life , '' said Cecily , `` but in stories it 's just as easy to make them handsome as not .
I like them best that way .
I just love to read a story where the heroine is beautiful as a dream . ''
`` Pretty people are always conceited , '' said Felix , who was getting tired of holding his tongue .
`` The heroes in stories are always nice , '' said Felicity , with apparent irrelevance .
`` They 're always so tall and slender .
Would n't it be awful funny if any one wrote a story about a fat hero -- or about one with too big a mouth ? ''
`` It does n't matter what a man LOOKS like , '' I said , feeling that Felix and Dan were catching it rather too hotly .
`` He must be a good sort of chap and DO heaps of things .
That 's all that 's necessary . ''
`` Do any of you happen to want to hear the rest of my story ? ''
asked the Story Girl in an ominously polite voice that recalled us to a sense of our bad manners .
We apologized and promised to behave better ; she went on , appeased : `` Accadee was all these things that I have mentioned , and he was the best hunter in the tribe besides .
Never an arrow of his that did not go straight to the mark .
Many and many a snow white moose he shot , and gave the beautiful skin to his sweetheart .
Her name was Shuben and she was as lovely as the moon when it rises from the sea , and as pleasant as a summer twilight .
Her eyes were dark and soft , her foot was as light as a breeze , and her voice sounded like a brook in the woods , or the wind that comes over the hills at night .
She and Accadee were very much in love with each other , and often they hunted together , for Shuben was almost as skilful with her bow and arrow as Accadee himself .
They had loved each other ever since they were small pappooses , and they had vowed to love each other as long as the river ran .
`` One twilight , when Accadee was out hunting in the woods , he shot a snow white moose ; and he took off its skin and wrapped it around him .
Then he went on through the woods in the starlight ; and he felt so happy and light of heart that he sometimes frisked and capered about just as a real moose would do .
And he was doing this when Shuben , who was also out hunting , saw him from afar and thought he was a real moose .
She stole cautiously through the woods until she came to the brink of a little valley .
Below her stood the snow white moose .
She drew her arrow to her eye -- alas , she knew the art only too well !
-- and took careful aim .
The next moment Accadee fell dead with her arrow in his heart . ''
The Story Girl paused -- a dramatic pause .
It was quite dark in the fir wood .
We could see her face and eyes but dimly through the gloom .
A silvery moon was looking down on us over the granary .
The stars twinkled through the softly waving boughs .
Beyond the wood we caught a glimpse of a moonlit world lying in the sharp frost of the October evening .
The sky above it was chill and ethereal and mystical .
But all about us were shadows ; and the weird little tale , told in a voice fraught with mystery and pathos , had peopled them for us with furtive folk in belt and wampum , and dark-tressed Indian maidens .
`` What did Shuben do when she found out she had killed Accadee ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` She died of a broken heart before the spring , and she and Accadee were buried side by side on the bank of the river which has ever since borne their names -- the river Shubenacadie , '' said the Story Girl .
The sharp wind blew around the granary and Cecily shivered .
We heard Aunt Janet 's voice calling `` Children , children . ''
Shaking off the spell of firs and moonlight and romantic tale , we scrambled to our feet and went homeward .
`` I kind of wish I 'd been born an Injun , '' said Dan .
`` It must have been a jolly life -- nothing to do but hunt and fight . ''
`` It would n't be so nice if they caught you and tortured you at the stake , '' said Felicity .
`` No , '' said Dan reluctantly .
`` I suppose there 'd be some drawback to everything , even being an Injun . ''
`` Is n't it cold ? ''
said Cecily , shivering again .
`` It will soon be winter .
I wish summer could last forever .
Felicity likes the winter , and so does the Story Girl , but I do n't .
It always seems so long till spring . ''
`` Never mind , we 've had a splendid summer , '' I said , slipping my arm about her to comfort some childish sorrow that breathed in her plaintive voice .
Truly , we had had a delectable summer ; and , having had it , it was ours forever .
`` The gods themselves can not recall their gifts . ''
They may rob us of our future and embitter our present , but our past they may not touch .
With all its laughter and delight and glamour it is our eternal possession .
Nevertheless , we all felt a little of the sadness of the waning year .
There was a distinct weight on our spirits until Felicity took us into the pantry and stayed us with apple tarts and comforted us with cream .
Then we brightened up .
It was really a very decent world after all .
CHAPTER XXVIII .
THE TALE OF THE RAINBOW BRIDGE Felix , so far as my remembrance goes , never attained to success in the Ordeal of Bitter Apples .
He gave up trying after awhile ; and he also gave up praying about it , saying in bitterness of spirit that there was no use in praying when other fellows prayed against you out of spite .
He and Peter remained on bad terms for some time , however .
We were all of us too tired those nights to do any special praying .
Sometimes I fear our `` regular '' prayers were slurred over , or mumbled in anything but reverent haste .
October was a busy month on the hill farms .
The apples had to be picked , and this work fell mainly to us children .
We stayed home from school to do it .
It was pleasant work and there was a great deal of fun in it ; but it was hard , too , and our arms and backs ached roundly at night .
In the mornings it was very delightful ; in the afternoons tolerable ; but in the evenings we lagged , and the laughter and zest of fresher hours were lacking .
Some of the apples had to be picked very carefully .
But with others it did not matter ; we boys would climb the trees and shake the apples down until the girls shrieked for mercy .
The days were crisp and mellow , with warm sunshine and a tang of frost in the air , mingled with the woodsy odours of the withering grasses .
The hens and turkeys prowled about , pecking at windfalls , and Pat made mad rushes at them amid the fallen leaves .
The world beyond the orchard was in a royal magnificence of colouring , under the vivid blue autumn sky .
The big willow by the gate was a splendid golden dome , and the maples that were scattered through the spruce grove waved blood-red banners over the sombre cone-bearers .
The Story Girl generally had her head garlanded with their leaves .
They became her vastly .
Neither Felicity nor Cecily could have worn them .
Those two girls were of a domestic type that assorted ill with the wildfire in Nature 's veins .
But when the Story Girl wreathed her nut brown tresses with crimson leaves it seemed , as Peter said , that they grew on her -- as if the gold and flame of her spirit had broken out in a coronal , as much a part of her as the pale halo seems a part of the Madonna it encircles .
What tales she told us on those far-away autumn days , peopling the russet arcades with folk of an elder world .
Many a princess rode by us on her palfrey , many a swaggering gallant ruffled it bravely in velvet and plume adown Uncle Stephen 's Walk , many a stately lady , silken clad , walked in that opulent orchard !
When we had filled our baskets they had to be carried to the granary loft , and the contents stored in bins or spread on the floor to ripen further .
We ate a good many , of course , feeling that the labourer was worthy of his hire .
The apples from our own birthday trees were stored in separate barrels inscribed with our names .
We might dispose of them as we willed .
Felicity sold hers to Uncle Alec 's hired man -- and was badly cheated to boot , for he levanted shortly afterwards , taking the apples with him , having paid her only half her rightful due .
Felicity has not gotten over that to this day .
Cecily , dear heart , sent most of hers to the hospital in town , and no doubt gathered in therefrom dividends of gratitude and satisfaction of soul , such as can never be purchased by any mere process of bargain and sale .
The rest of us ate our apples , or carried them to school where we bartered them for such treasures as our schoolmates possessed and we coveted .
There was a dusky , little , pear-shaped apple -- from one of Uncle Stephen 's trees -- which was our favourite ; and next to it a delicious , juicy yellow apple from Aunt Louisa 's tree .
We were also fond of the big sweet apples ; we used to throw them up in the air and let them fall on the ground until they were bruised and battered to the bursting point .
Then we sucked on the juice ; sweeter was it than the nectar drunk by blissful gods on the Thessalian hill .
Sometimes we worked until the cold yellow sunsets faded out over the darkening distances , and the hunter 's moon looked down on us through the sparkling air .
The constellations of autumn scintillated above us .
Peter and the Story Girl knew all about them , and imparted their knowledge to us generously .
I recall Peter standing on the Pulpit Stone , one night ere moonrise , and pointing them out to us , occasionally having a difference of opinion with the Story Girl over the name of some particular star .
Job 's Coffin and the Northern Cross were to the west of us ; south of us flamed Fomalhaut .
The Great Square of Pegasus was over our heads .
Cassiopeia sat enthroned in her beautiful chair in the north-east ; and north of us the Dippers swung untiringly around the Pole Star .
Cecily and Felix were the only ones who could distinguish the double star in the handle of the Big Dipper , and greatly did they plume themselves thereon .
The Story Girl told us the myths and legends woven around these immemorial clusters , her very voice taking on a clear , remote , starry sound as she talked of them .
When she ceased , we came back to earth , feeling as if we had been millions of miles away in the blue ether , and that all our old familiar surroundings were momentarily forgotten and strange .
That night when he pointed out the stars to us from the Pulpit Stone was the last time for several weeks that Peter shared our toil and pastime .
The next day he complained of headache and sore throat , and seemed to prefer lying on Aunt Olivia 's kitchen sofa to doing any work .
As it was not in Peter to be a malingerer he was left in peace , while we picked apples .
Felix alone , must unjustly and spitefully , declared that Peter was simply shirking .
`` He 's just lazy , that 's what 's the matter with him , '' he said .
`` Why do n't you talk sense , if you must talk ? ''
said Felicity .
`` There 's no sense in calling Peter lazy .
You might as well say I had black hair .
Of course , Peter , being a Craig , has his faults , but he 's a smart boy .
His father was lazy but his mother has n't a lazy bone in her body , and Peter takes after her . ''
`` Uncle Roger says Peter 's father was n't exactly lazy , '' said the Story Girl .
`` The trouble was , there were so many other things he liked better than work . ''
`` I wonder if he 'll ever come back to his family , '' said Cecily .
`` Just think how dreadful it would be if OUR father had left us like that ! ''
`` Our father is a King , '' said Felicity loftily , `` and Peter 's father was only a Craig .
A member of our family COULD N'T behave like that . ''
`` They say there must be a black sheep in every family , '' said the Story Girl .
`` There is n't any in ours , '' said Cecily loyally .
`` Why do white sheep eat more than black ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Is that a conundrum ? ''
asked Cecily cautiously .
`` If it is I wo n't try to guess the reason .
I never can guess conundrums . ''
`` It is n't a conundrum , '' said Felix .
`` It 's a fact .
They do -- and there 's a good reason for it . ''
We stopped picking apples , sat down on the grass , and tried to reason it out -- with the exception of Dan , who declared that he knew there was a catch somewhere and he was n't going to be caught .
The rest of us could not see where any catch could exist , since Felix solemnly vowed , ` cross his heart , white sheep did eat more than black .
We argued over it seriously , but finally had to give it up .
`` Well , what is the reason ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` Because there 's more of them , '' said Felix , grinning .
I forget what we did to Felix .
A shower came up in the evening and we had to stop picking .
After the shower there was a magnificent double rainbow .
We watched it from the granary window , and the Story Girl told us an old legend , culled from one of Aunt Olivia 's many scrapbooks .
`` Long , long ago , in the Golden Age , when the gods used to visit the earth so often that it was nothing uncommon to see them , Odin made a pilgrimage over the world .
Odin was the great god of the northland , you know .
And wherever he went among men he taught them love and brotherhood , and skilful arts ; and great cities sprang up where he had trodden , and every land through which he passed was blessed because one of the gods had come down to men .
But many men and women followed Odin himself , giving up all their worldly possessions and ambitions ; and to these he promised the gift of eternal life .
All these people were good and noble and unselfish and kind ; but the best and noblest of them all was a youth named Ving ; and this youth was beloved by Odin above all others , for his beauty and strength and goodness .
Always he walked on Odin 's right hand , and always the first light of Odin 's smile fell on him .
Tall and straight was he as a young pine , and his long hair was the colour of ripe wheat in the sun ; and his blue eyes were like the northland heavens on a starry night .
`` In Odin 's band was a beautiful maiden named Alin .
She was as fair and delicate as a young birch tree in spring among the dark old pines and firs , and Ving loved her with all his heart .
His soul thrilled with rapture at the thought that he and she together should drink from the fountain of immortality , as Odin had promised , and be one thereafter in eternal youth .
`` At last they came to the very place where the rainbow touched the earth .
And the rainbow was a great bridge , built of living colours , so dazzling and wonderful that beyond it the eye could see nothing , only far away a great , blinding , sparkling glory , where the fountain of life sprang up in a shower of diamond fire .
But under the Rainbow Bridge rolled a terrible flood , deep and wide and violent , full of rocks and rapids and whirlpools .
`` There was a Warder of the bridge , a god , dark and stern and sorrowful .
And to him Odin gave command that he should open the gate and allow his followers to cross the Rainbow Bridge , that they might drink of the fountain of life beyond .
And the Warder set open the gate . ''
` Pass on and drink of the fountain , ' he said .
` To all who taste of it shall immortality be given .
But only to that one who shall drink of it first shall be permitted to walk at Odin 's right hand forever . '
`` Then the company passed through in great haste , all fired with a desire to be the first to drink of the fountain and win so marvellous a boon .
Last of all came Ving .
He had lingered behind to pluck a thorn from the foot of a beggar child he had met on the highway , and he had not heard the Warder 's words .
But when , eager , joyous , radiant , he set his foot on the rainbow , the stern , sorrowful Warder took him by the arm and drew him back . ''
` Ving , strong , noble , and valiant , ' he said , ` Rainbow Bridge is not for thee . '
`` Very dark grew Ving 's face .
Hot rebellion rose in his heart and rushed over his pale lips . ''
` Why dost thou keep back the draught of immortality from me ? '
he demanded passionately .
`` The Warder pointed to the dark flood that rolled under the bridge . ''
` The path of the rainbow is not for thee , ' he said , ` but yonder way is open .
Ford that flood .
On the furthest bank is the fountain of life . ' ''
` Thou mockest me , ' muttered Ving sullenly .
` No mortal could cross that flood .
Oh , Master , ' he prayed , turning beseechingly to Odin , ` thou didst promise to me eternal life as to the others .
Wilt thou not keep that promise ?
Command the Warder to let me pass .
He must obey thee . '
`` But Odin stood silent , with his face turned from his beloved , and Ving 's heart was filled with unspeakable bitterness and despair . ''
` Thou mayest return to earth if thou fearest to essay the flood , ' said the Warder . ''
` Nay , ' said Ving wildly , ` earthly life without Alin is more dreadful than the death which awaits me in yon dark river . '
`` And he plunged fiercely in .
He swam , and struggled , he buffetted the turmoil .
The waves went over his head again and again , the whirlpools caught him and flung him on the cruel rocks .
The wild , cold spray beat on his eyes and blinded him , so that he could see nothing , and the roar of the river deafened him so that he could hear nothing ; but he felt keenly the wounds and bruises of the cruel rocks , and many a time he would have given up the struggle had not the thought of sweet Alin 's loving eyes brought him the strength and desire to struggle as long as it was possible .
Long , long , long , to him seemed that bitter and perilous passage ; but at last he won through to the furthest side .
Breathless and reeling , his vesture torn , his great wounds bleeding , he found himself on the shore where the fountain of immortality sprang up .
He staggered to its brink and drank of its clear stream .
Then all pain and weariness fell away from him , and he rose up , a god , beautiful with immortality .
And as he did there came rushing over the Rainbow Bridge a great company -- the band of fellow travellers .
But all were too late to win the double boon .
Ving had won to it through the danger and suffering of the dark river . ''
The rainbow had faded out , and the darkness of the October dusk was falling .
`` I wonder , '' said Dan meditatively , as we went away from that redolent spot , `` what it would be like to live for ever in this world . ''
`` I expect we 'd get tired of it after awhile , '' said the Story Girl .
`` But , '' she added , `` I think it would be a goodly while before I would . ''
CHAPTER XXIX .
THE SHADOW FEARED OF MAN We were all up early the next morning , dressing by candlelight .
But early as it was we found the Story Girl in the kitchen when we went down , sitting on Rachel Ward 's blue chest and looking important .
`` What do you think ? ''
she exclaimed .
`` Peter has the measles !
He was dreadfully sick all night , and Uncle Roger had to go for the doctor .
He was quite light-headed , and did n't know any one .
Of course he 's far too sick to be taken home , so his mother has come up to wait on him , and I 'm to live over here until he is better . ''
This was mingled bitter and sweet .
We were sorry to hear that Peter had the measles ; but it would be jolly to have the Story Girl living with us all the time .
What orgies of story telling we should have !
`` I suppose we 'll all have the measles now , '' grumbled Felicity .
`` And October is such an inconvenient time for measles -- there 's so much to do . ''
`` I do n't believe any time is very convenient to have the measles , '' Cecily said .
`` Oh , perhaps we wo n't have them , '' said the Story Girl cheerfully .
`` Peter caught them at Markdale , the last time he was home , his mother says . ''
`` I do n't want to catch the measles from Peter , '' said Felicity decidedly .
`` Fancy catching them from a hired boy ! ''
`` Oh , Felicity , do n't call Peter a hired boy when he 's sick , '' protested Cecily .
During the next two days we were very busy -- too busy to tell tales or listen to them .
Only in the frosty dusk did we have time to wander afar in realms of gold with the Story Girl .
She had recently been digging into a couple of old volumes of classic myths and northland folklore which she had found in Aunt Olivia 's attic ; and for us , god and goddess , laughing nymph and mocking satyr , norn and valkyrie , elf and troll , and `` green folk '' generally , were real creatures once again , inhabiting the orchards and woods and meadows around us , until it seemed as if the Golden Age had returned to earth .
Then , on the third day , the Story Girl came to us with a very white face .
She had been over to Uncle Roger 's yard to hear the latest bulletin from the sick room .
Hitherto they had been of a non-committal nature ; but now it was only too evident that she had bad news .
`` Peter is very , very sick , '' she said miserably .
`` He has caught cold someway -- and the measles have struck in -- and -- and -- '' the Story Girl wrung her brown hands together -- `` the doctor is afraid he -- he -- wo n't get better . ''
We all stood around , stricken , incredulous .
`` Do you mean , '' said Felix , finding voice at length , `` that Peter is going to die ? ''
The Story Girl nodded miserably .
`` They 're afraid so . ''
Cecily sat down by her half filled basket and began to cry .
Felicity said violently that she did n't believe it .
`` I ca n't pick another apple to-day and I ai n't going to try , '' said Dan .
None of us could .
We went to the grown-ups and told them so ; and the grown-ups , with unaccustomed understanding and sympathy , told us that we need not .
Then we roamed about in our wretchedness and tried to comfort one another .
We avoided the orchard ; it was for us too full of happy memories to accord with our bitterness of soul .
Instead , we resorted to the spruce wood , where the hush and the sombre shadows and the soft , melancholy sighing of the wind in the branches over us did not jar harshly on our new sorrow .
We could not really believe that Peter was going to die -- to DIE .
Old people died .
Grown-up people died .
Even children of whom we had heard died .
But that one of US -- of our merry little band -- should die was unbelievable .
We could not believe it .
And yet the possibility struck us in the face like a blow .
We sat on the mossy stones under the dark old evergreens and gave ourselves up to wretchedness .
We all , even Dan , cried , except the Story Girl .
`` I do n't see how you can be so unfeeling , Sara Stanley , '' said Felicity reproachfully .
`` You 've always been such friends with Peter -- and made out you thought so much of him -- and now you ai n't shedding a tear for him . ''
I looked at the Story Girl 's dry , piteous eyes , and suddenly remembered that I had never seen her cry .
When she told us sad tales , in a voice laden with all the tears that had ever been shed , she had never shed one of her own .
`` I ca n't cry , '' she said drearily .
`` I wish I could .
I 've a dreadful feeling here -- '' she touched her slender throat -- `` and if I could cry I think it would make it better .
But I ca n't . ''
`` Maybe Peter will get better after all , '' said Dan , swallowing a sob .
`` I 've heard of lots of people who went and got better after the doctor said they were going to die . ''
`` While there 's life there 's hope , you know , '' said Felix .
`` We should n't cross bridges till we come to them . ''
`` Those are only proverbs , '' said the Story Girl bitterly .
`` Proverbs are all very fine when there 's nothing to worry you , but when you 're in real trouble they 're not a bit of help . ''
`` Oh , I wish I 'd never said Peter was n't fit to associate with , '' moaned Felicity .
`` If he ever gets better I 'll never say such a thing again -- I 'll never THINK it .
He 's just a lovely boy and twice as smart as lots that are n't hired out . ''
`` He was always so polite and good-natured and obliging , '' sighed Cecily .
`` He was just a real gentleman , '' said the Story Girl .
`` There ai n't many fellows as fair and square as Peter , '' said Dan .
`` And such a worker , '' said Felix .
`` Uncle Roger says he never had a boy he could depend on like Peter , '' I said .
`` It 's too late to be saying all these nice things about him now , '' said the Story Girl .
`` He wo n't ever know how much we thought of him .
It 's too late . ''
`` If he gets better I 'll tell him , '' said Cecily resolutely .
`` I wish I had n't boxed his ears that day he tried to kiss me , '' went on Felicity , who was evidently raking her conscience for past offences in regard to Peter .
`` Of course I could n't be expected to let a hir -- to let a boy kiss me .
But I need n't have been so cross about it .
I might have been more dignified .
And I told him I just hated him .
That was n't true , but I s ` pose he 'll die thinking it is .
Oh , dear me , what makes people say things they 've got to be so sorry for afterwards ? ''
`` I suppose if Peter d-d-dies he 'll go to heaven anyhow , '' sobbed Cecily .
`` He 's been real good all this summer , but he is n't a church member . ''
`` He 's a Presbyterian , you know , '' said Felicity reassuringly .
Her tone expressed her conviction that that would carry Peter through if anything would .
`` We 're none of us church members .
But of course Peter could n't be sent to the bad place .
That would be ridiculous .
What would they do with him there , when he 's so good and polite and honest and kind ? ''
`` Oh , I think he 'll be all right , too , '' sighed Cecily , `` but you know he never did go to church and Sunday School before this summer . ''
`` Well , his father run away , and his mother was too busy earning a living to bring him up right , '' argued Felicity .
`` Do n't you suppose that anybody , even God , would make allowances for that ? ''
`` Of course Peter will go to heaven , '' said the Story Girl .
`` He 's not grown up enough to go anywhere else .
Children always go to heaven .
But I do n't want him to go there or anywhere else .
I want him to stay right here .
I know heaven must be a splendid place , but I 'm sure Peter would rather be here , having fun with us . ''
`` Sara Stanley , '' rebuked Felicity .
`` I should think you would n't say such things at such a solemn time .
You 're such a queer girl . ''
`` Would n't you rather be here yourself than in heaven ? ''
said the Story Girl bluntly .
`` Would n't you now , Felicity King ?
Tell the truth , ` cross your heart . ''
But Felicity took refuge from this inconvenient question in tears .
`` If we could only DO something to help Peter ! ''
I said desperately .
`` It seems dreadful not to be able to do a single thing . ''
`` There 's one thing we can do , '' said Cecily gently .
`` We can pray for him . ''
`` So we can , '' I agreed .
`` I 'm going to pray like sixty , '' said Felix energetically .
`` We 'll have to be awful good , you know , '' warned Cecily .
`` There 's no use praying if you 're not good . ''
`` That will be easy , '' sighed Felicity .
`` I do n't feel a bit like being bad .
If anything happens to Peter I feel sure I 'll never be naughty again .
I wo n't have the heart . ''
We did , indeed , pray most sincerely for Peter 's recovery .
We did not , as in the case of Paddy , `` tack it on after more important things , '' but put it in the very forefront of our petitions .
Even skeptical Dan prayed , his skepticism falling away from him like a discarded garment in this valley of the shadow , which sifts out hearts and tries souls , until we all , grown-up or children , realize our weakness , and , finding that our own puny strength is as a reed shaken in the wind , creep back humbly to the God we have vainly dreamed we could do without .
Peter was no better the next day .
Aunt Olivia reported that his mother was broken-hearted .
We did not again ask to be released from work .
Instead , we went at it with feverish zeal .
If we worked hard there was less time for grief and grievious thoughts .
We picked apples and dragged them to the granary doggedly .
In the afternoon Aunt Janet brought us a lunch of apple turnovers ; but we could not eat them .
Peter , as Felicity reminded us with a burst of tears , had been so fond of apple turnovers .
And , oh , how good we were !
How angelically and unnaturally good !
Never was there such a band of kind , sweet-tempered , unselfish children in any orchard .
Even Felicity and Dan , for once in their lives , got through the day without any exchange of left-handed compliments .
Cecily confided to me that she never meant to put her hair up in curlers on Saturday nights again , because it was pretending .
She was so anxious to repent of something , sweet girl , and this was all she could think of .
During the afternoon Judy Pineau brought up a tear-blotted note from Sara Ray .
Sara had not been allowed to visit the hill farm since Peter had developed measles .
She was an unhappy little exile , and could only relieve her anguish of soul by daily letters to Cecily , which the faithful and obliging Judy Pineau brought up for her .
These epistles were as gushingly underlined as if Sara had been a correspondent of early Victorian days .
Cecily did not write back , because Mrs. Ray had decreed that no letters must be taken down from the hill farm lest they carry infection .
Cecily had offered to bake every epistle thoroughly in the oven before sending it ; but Mrs. Ray was inexorable , and Cecily had to content herself by sending long verbal messages with Judy Pineau .
`` My OWN DEAREST Cecily , '' ran Sara 's letter .
`` I have just heard the sad news about POOR DEAR PETER .
I ca n't describe MY FEELINGS .
They are DREADFUL .
I have been crying ALL THE AFTERNOON .
I wish I could FLY to you , but ma will not let me .
She is afraid I will catch the measles , but I would rather have the measles A DOZEN TIMES OVER than be sepparated from you all like this .
But I have felt , ever since the Judgment Sunday that I MUST OBEY MA BETTER than I used to do .
If ANYTHING HAPPENS to Peter and you are let see him BEFORE IT HAPPENS give him MY LOVE and tell him HOW SORRY I AM , and that I hope we will ALL meet in A BETTER WORLD Everything in school is about the same .
The master is awful cross by spells .
Jimmy Frewen walked home with Nellie Bowan last night from prayer-meeting and HER ONLY FOURTEEN .
Do n't you think it horrid BEGINNING SO YOUNG ?
YOU AND ME would NEVER do anything like that till we were GROWN UP , would we ?
Willy Fraser looks SO LONESOME in school these days .
I must stop for ma says I waste FAR TOO MUCH TIME writing letters .
Tell Judy ALL THE NEWS for me .
`` Your OWN TRUE FRIEND , `` SARA RAY .
`` P.S. Oh I DO hope Peter will get better .
Ma is going to get me a new brown dress for the winter .
`` S. R. '' When evening came we went to our seats under the whispering , sighing fir trees .
It was a beautiful night -- clear , windless , frosty .
Some one galloped down the road on horseback , lustily singing a comic song .
How dared he ?
We felt that it was an insult to our wretchedness .
If Peter were going to -- going to -- well , if anything happened to Peter , we felt so miserably sure that the music of life would be stilled for us for ever .
How could any one in the world be happy when we were so unhappy ?
Presently Aunt Olivia came down the long twilight arcade .
Her bright hair was uncovered and she looked slim and queen-like in her light dress .
We thought Aunt Olivia very pretty then .
Looking back from a mature standpoint I realize that she must have been an unusually beautiful woman ; and she looked her prettiest as she stood under the swaying boughs in the last faint light of the autumn dusk and smiled down at our woebegone faces .
`` Dear , sorrowful little people , I bring you glad tidings of great joy , '' she said .
`` The doctor has just been here , and he finds Peter much better , and thinks he will pull through after all . ''
We gazed up at her in silence for a few moments .
When we had heard the news of Paddy 's recovery we had been noisy and jubilant ; but we were very quiet now .
We had been too near something dark and terrible and menacing ; and though it was thus suddenly removed the chill and shadow of it were about us still .
Presently the Story Girl , who had been standing up , leaning against a tall fir , slipped down to the ground in a huddled fashion and broke into a very passion of weeping .
I had never heard any one cry so , with dreadful , rending sobs .
I was used to hearing girls cry .
It was as much Sara Ray 's normal state as any other , and even Felicity and Cecily availed themselves occasionally of the privilege of sex .
But I had never heard any girl cry like this .
It gave me the same unpleasant sensation which I had felt one time when I had seen my father cry .
`` Oh , do n't , Sara , do n't , '' I said gently , patting her convulsed shoulder .
`` You ARE a queer girl , '' said Felicity -- more tolerantly than usual however -- `` you never cried a speck when you thought Peter was going to die -- and now when he is going to get better you cry like that . ''
`` Sara , child , come with me , '' said Aunt Olivia , bending over her .
The Story Girl got up and went away , with Aunt Olivia 's arms around her .
The sound of her crying died away under the firs , and with it seemed to go the dread and grief that had been our portion for hours .
In the reaction our spirits rose with a bound .
`` Oh , ai n't it great that Peter 's going to be all right ? ''
said Dan , springing up .
`` I never was so glad of anything in my whole life , '' declared Felicity in shameless rapture .
`` Ca n't we send word somehow to Sara Ray to-night ? ''
asked Cecily , the ever-thoughtful .
`` She 's feeling so bad -- and she 'll have to feel that way till to-morrow if we ca n't . ''
`` Let 's all go down to the Ray gate and holler to Judy Pineau till she comes out , '' suggested Felix .
Accordingly , we went and `` hollered , '' with a right good will .
We were much taken aback to find that Mrs. Ray came to the gate instead of Judy , and rather sourly demanded what we were yelling about .
When she heard our news , however , she had the decency to say she was glad , and to promise she would convey the good tidings to Sara -- `` who is already in bed , where all children of her age should be , '' added Mrs. Ray severely .
WE had no intention of going to bed for a good two hours yet .
Instead , after devoutly thanking goodness that our grown-ups , in spite of some imperfections , were not of the Mrs. Ray type , we betook ourselves to the granary , lighted a huge lantern which Dan had made out of a turnip , and proceeded to devour all the apples we might have eaten through the day but had not .
We were a blithe little crew , sitting there in the light of our goblin lantern .
We had in very truth been given beauty for ashes and the oil of joy for mourning .
Life was as a red rose once more .
`` I 'm going to make a big batch of patty-pans , first thing in the morning , '' said Felicity jubilantly .
`` Is n't it queer ?
Last night I felt just like praying , and tonight I feel just like cooking . ''
`` We must n't forget to thank God for making Peter better , '' said Cecily , as we finally went to the house .
`` Do you s ` pose Peter would n't have got better anyway ? ''
said Dan .
`` Oh , Dan , what makes you ask such questions ? ''
exclaimed Cecily in real distress .
`` I dunno , '' said Dan .
`` They just kind of come into my head , like .
But of course I mean to thank God when I say my prayers to-night .
That 's only decent . ''
CHAPTER XXX .
A COMPOUND LETTER Once Peter was out of danger he recovered rapidly , but he found his convalescence rather tedious ; and Aunt Olivia suggested to us one day that we write a `` compound letter '' to amuse him , until he could come to the window and talk to us from a safe distance .
The idea appealed to us ; and , the day being Saturday and the apples all picked , we betook ourselves to the orchard to compose our epistles , Cecily having first sent word by a convenient caller to Sara Ray , that she , too , might have a letter ready .
Later , I , having at that time a mania for preserving all documents relating to our life in Carlisle , copied those letters in the blank pages at the back of my dream book .
Hence I can reproduce them verbatim , with the bouquet they have retained through all the long years since they were penned in that autumnal orchard on the hill , with its fading leaves and frosted grasses , and the `` mild , delightsome melancholy '' of the late October day enfolding .
CECILY 'S LETTER `` DEAR PETER : -- I am so very glad and thankful that you are going to get better .
We were so afraid you would not last Tuesday , and we felt dreadful , even Felicity .
We all prayed for you .
I think the others have stopped now , but I keep it up every night still , for fear you might have a relaps .
-LRB- I do n't know if that is spelled right .
I have n't the dixonary handy , and if I ask the others Felicity will laugh at me , though she can not spell lots of words herself . -RRB-
I am saving some of the Honourable Mr. Whalen 's pears for you .
I 've got them hid where nobody can find them .
There 's only a dozen because Dan et all the rest , but I guess you will like them .
We have got all the apples picked , and are all ready to take the measles now , if we have to , but I hope we wo n't .
If we have to , though , I 'd rather catch them from you than from any one else , because we are acquainted with you .
If I do take the measles and anything happens to me Felicity is to have my cherry vase .
I 'd rather give it to the Story Girl , but Dan says it ought to be kept in the family , even if Felicity is a crank .
I have n't anything else valuable , since I gave Sara Ray my forget-me-not jug , but if you would like anything I 've got let me know and I 'll leave instructions for you to have it .
The Story Girl has told us some splendid stories lately .
I wish I was clever like her .
Ma says it does n't matter if you 're not clever as long as you are good , but I am not even very good .
`` I think this is all my news , except that I want to tell you how much we all think of you , Peter .
When we heard you were sick we all said nice things about you , but we were afraid it was too late , and I said if you got better I 'd tell you .
It is easier to write it than to tell it out to your face .
We think you are smart and polite and obliging and a great worker and a gentleman .
`` Your true friend , `` CECILY KING .
`` P.S. .
If you answer my letter do n't say anything about the pears , because I do n't want Dan to find out there 's any left .
C. K. '' FELICITY 'S LETTER `` DEAR PETER : -- Aunt Olivia says for us all to write a compound letter to cheer you up .
We are all awful glad you are getting better .
It gave us an awful scare when we heard you were going to die .
But you will soon be all right and able to get out again .
Be careful you do n't catch cold .
I am going to bake some nice things for you and send them over , now that the doctor says you can eat them .
And I 'll send you my rosebud plate to eat off of .
I 'm only lending it , you know , not giving it .
I let very few people use it because it is my greatest treasure .
Mind you do n't break it .
Aunt Olivia must always wash it , not your mother .
`` I do hope the rest of us wo n't catch the measles .
It must look horrid to have red spots all over your face .
We all feel pretty well yet .
The Story Girl says as many queer things as ever .
Felix thinks he is getting thin , but he is fatter than ever , and no wonder , with all the apples he eats .
He has give up trying to eat the bitter apples at last .
Beverley has grown half an inch since July , by the mark on the hall door , and he is awful pleased about it .
I told him I guessed the magic seed was taking effect at last , and he got mad .
He never gets mad at anything the Story Girl says , and yet she is so sarkastic by times .
Dan is pretty hard to get along with as usul , but I try to bear pashently with him .
Cecily is well and says she is n't going to curl her hair any more .
She is so conscienshus .
I am glad my hair curls of itself , ai n't you ?
`` We have n't seen Sara Ray since you got sick .
She is awful lonesome , and Judy says she cries nearly all the time but that is nothing new .
I 'm awful sorry for Sara but I 'm glad I 'm not her .
She is going to write you a letter too .
You 'll let me see what she puts in it , wo n't you ?
You 'd better take some Mexican Tea now .
It 's a great blood purifyer .
`` I am going to get a lovely dark blue dress for the winter .
It is ever so much prettier than Sara Ray 's brown one .
Sara Ray 's mother has no taste .
The Story Girl 's father is sending her a new red dress , and a red velvet cap from Paris .
She is so fond of red .
I ca n't bear it , it looks so common .
Mother says I can get a velvet hood too .
Cecily says she does n't believe it 's right to wear velvet when it 's so expensive and the heathen are crying for the gospel .
She got that idea from a Sunday School paper but I am going to get my hood all the same .
`` Well , Peter , I have no more news so I will close for this time .
`` hoping you will soon be quite well , I remain `` yours sincerely , `` FELICITY KING .
`` P.S. .
The Story Girl peeked over my shoulder and says I ought to have signed it ` yours affeckshunately , ' but I know better , because the Family Guide has told lots of times how you should sign yourself when you are writing to a young man who is only a friend .
F. K. '' FELIX ' LETTER `` DEAR PETER : -- I am awful glad you are getting better .
We all felt bad when we thought you would n't , but I felt worse than the others because we had n't been on very good terms lately and I had said mean things about you .
I 'm sorry and , Peter , you can pray for anything you like and I wo n't ever object again .
I 'm glad Uncle Alec interfered and stopped the fight .
If I had licked you and you had died of the measles it would have been a dreadful thing .
`` We have all the apples in and have n't much to do just now and we are having lots of fun but we wish you were here to join in .
I 'm a lot thinner than I was .
I guess working so hard picking apples is a good thing to make you thin .
The girls are all well .
Felicity puts on as many airs as ever , but she makes great things to eat .
I have had some splendid dreams since we gave up writing them down .
That is always the way .
We ai n't going to school till we 're sure we are not going to have the measles .
This is all I can think of , so I will draw to a close .
Remember , you can pray for anything you like .
FELIX KING . ''
SARA RAY 'S LETTER `` DEAR PETER : -- I never wrote to A BOY before , so PLEASE excuse ALL mistakes .
I am SO glad you are getting better .
We were SO afraid you were GOING TO DIE .
I CRIED ALL NIGHT about it .
But now that you are OUT OF DANGER will you tell me WHAT IT REALLY FEELS LIKE to think you are going to die ?
Does it FEEL QUEER ?
Were you VERY badly frightened ?
`` Ma wo n't let me go up the hill AT ALL now .
I would DIE if it was not for Judy Pinno .
-LRB- The French names are SO HARD TO SPELL . -RRB-
JUDY IS VERY OBLIGING and I feel that she SIMPATHISES WITH ME .
In my LONELY HOURS I read my dream book and Cecily 's old letters and they are SUCH A COMFORT to me .
I have been reading one of the school library books too .
I is PRETTY GOOD but I wish they had got more LOVE STORIES because they are so exciting .
But the master would not let them .
`` If you had DIED , Peter , and YOUR FATHER had heard it would n't he have FELT DREADFUL ?
We are having BEAUTIFUL WEATHER and the seenary is fine since the leaves turned .
I think there is nothing so pretty as Nature after all .
`` I hope ALL DANGER from the measles will soon be over and we can ALL MEET AGAIN AT THE HOME ON THE HILL .
Till then FAREWELL .
`` Your true friend , `` SARA RAY .
`` P. S. Do n't let Felicity see this letter .
S. R. '' DAN 'S LETTER `` DEAR OLD PETE : -- Awful glad you cheated the doctor .
I thought you were n't the kind to turn up your toes so easy .
You should of heard the girls crying .
`` They 're all getting their winter finery now and the talk about it would make you sick .
The Story Girl is getting hers from Paris and Felicity is awful jealous though she pretends she is n't .
I can see through her .
`` Kitt Mar was up here Thursday to see the girls .
She 's had the measles so she is n't scared .
She 's a great girl to laugh .
I like a girl that laughs , do n't you ?
`` We had a call from Peg Bowen yesterday .
You should of seen the Story Girl hustling Pat out of the way , for all she says she do n't believe he was bewitched .
Peg had your rheumatism ring on and the Story Girl 's blue beads and Sara Ray 's lace soed across the front of her dress .
She wanted some tobacco and some pickles .
Ma gave her some pickles but said we did n't have no tobacco and Peg went off mad but I guess she would n't bewitch anything on account of the pickles .
`` I ai n't any hand to write letters so I guess I 'll stop .
Hope you 'll be out soon .
DAN . ''
THE STORY GIRL 'S LETTER `` DEAR PETER : -- Oh , how glad I am that you are getting better !
Those days when we thought you would n't were the hardest of my whole life .
It seemed too dreadful to be true that perhaps you would die .
And then when we heard you were going to get better that seemed too good to be true .
Oh , Peter , hurry up and get well , for we are having such good times and we miss you so much .
I have coaxed Uncle Alec not to burn his potato stalks till you are well , because I remember how you always liked to see the potato stalks burn .
Uncle Alec consented , though Aunt Janet said it was high time they were burned .
Uncle Roger burned his last night and it was such fun .
`` Pat is splendid .
He has never had a sick spell since that bad one .
I would send him over to be company for you , but Aunt Janet says no , because he might carry the measles back .
I do n't see how he could , but we must obey Aunt Janet .
She is very good to us all , but I know she does not approve of me .
She says I 'm my father 's own child .
I know that does n't mean anything complimentary because she looked so queer when she saw that I had heard her , but I do n't care .
I 'm glad I 'm like father .
I had a splendid letter from him this week , with the darlingest pictures in it .
He is painting a new picture which is going to make him famous .
I wonder what Aunt Janet will say then .
`` Do you know , Peter , yesterday I thought I saw the Family Ghost at last .
I was coming through the gap in the hedge , and I saw somebody in blue standing under Uncle Alec 's tree .
How my heart beat !
My hair should have stood up on end with terror but it did n't .
I felt to see , and it was lying down quite flat .
But it was only a visitor after all .
I do n't know whether I was glad or disappointed .
I do n't think it would be a pleasant experience to see the ghost .
But after I had seen it think what a heroine I would be !
`` Oh , Peter , what do you think ?
I have got acquainted with the Awkward Man at last .
I never thought it would be so easy .
Yesterday Aunt Olivia wanted some ferns , so I went back to the maple woods to get them for her , and I found some lovely ones by the spring .
And while I was sitting there , looking into the spring who should come along but the Awkward Man himself .
He sat right down beside me and began to talk .
I never was so surprised in my life .
We had a very interesting talk , and I told him two of my best stories , and a great many of my secrets into the bargain .
They may say what they like , but he was not one bit shy or awkward , and he has beautiful eyes .
He did not tell me any of his secrets , but I believe he will some day .
Of course I never said a word about his Alice-room .
But I gave him a hint about his little brown book .
I said I loved poetry and often felt like writing it , and then I said , ` Do you ever feel like that , Mr. Dale ? '
He said , yes , he sometimes felt that way , but he did not mention the brown book .
I thought he might have .
But after all I do n't like people who tell you everything the first time you meet them , like Sara Ray .
When he went away he said , ' I hope I shall have the pleasure of meeting you again , ' just as seriously and politely as if I was a grown-up young lady .
I am sure he could never have said it if I had been really grown up .
I told him it was likely he would and that he was n't to mind if I had a longer skirt on next time , because I 'd be just the same person .
`` I told the children a beautiful new fairy story to-day .
I made them go to the spruce wood to hear it .
A spruce wood is the proper place to tell fairy stories in .
Felicity says she ca n't see that it makes any difference where you tell them , but oh , it does .
I wish you had been there to hear it too , but when you are well I will tell it over again for you .
`` I am going to call the southernwood ` appleringie ' after this .
Beverley says that is what they call it in Scotland , and I think it sounds so much more poetical than southernwood .
Felicity says the right name is ` Boy 's Love , ' but I think that sounds silly .
`` Oh , Peter , shadows are such pretty things .
The orchard is full of them this very minute .
Sometimes they are so still you would think them asleep .
Then they go laughing and skipping .
Outside , in the oat field , they are always chasing each other .
They are the wild shadows .
The shadows in the orchard are the tame shadows .
`` Everything seems to be rather tired growing except the spruces and chrysanthemums in Aunt Olivia 's garden .
The sunshine is so thick and yellow and lazy , and the crickets sing all day long .
The birds are nearly all gone and most of the maple leaves have fallen .
`` Just to make you laugh I 'll write you a little story I heard Uncle Alec telling last night .
It was about Elder Frewen 's grandfather taking a pair of rope reins to lead a piano home .
Everybody laughed except Aunt Janet .
Old Mr. Frewen was HER grandfather too , and she would n't laugh .
One day when old Mr. Frewen was a young man of eighteen his father came home and said , ` Sandy , I bought a piano at Simon Ward 's sale to-day .
You 're to go to-morrow and bring it home . '
So next day Sandy started off on horseback with a pair of rope reins to lead the piano home .
He thought it was some kind of livestock .
`` And then Uncle Roger told about old Mark Ward who got up to make a speech at a church missionary social when he was drunk .
-LRB- Of course he did n't get drunk at the social .
He went there that way . -RRB-
And this was his speech . ''
` Ladies and gentlemen , Mr. Chairman , I ca n't express my thoughts on this grand subject of missions .
It 's in this poor human critter ' -- patting himself on the breast -- ` but he ca n't git it out . '
`` I 'll tell you these stories when you get well .
I can tell them ever so much better than I can write them .
`` I know Felicity is wondering why I 'm writing such a long letter , so perhaps I 'd better stop .
If your mother reads it to you there is a good deal of it she may not understand , but I think your Aunt Jane would .
`` I remain `` your very affectionate friend , `` SARA STANLEY . ''
I did not keep a copy of my own letter , and I have forgotten everything that was in it , except the first sentence , in which I told Peter I was awful glad he was getting better .
Peter 's delight on receiving our letters knew no bounds .
He insisted on answering them and his letter , painstakingly disinfected , was duly delivered to us .
Aunt Olivia had written it at his dictation , which was a gain , as far as spelling and punctuation went .
But Peter 's individuality seemed merged and lost in Aunt Olivia 's big , dashing script .
Not until the Story Girl read the letter to us in the granary by jack-o-lantern light , in a mimicry of Peter 's very voice , did we savour the real bouquet of it .
PETER 'S LETTER `` DEAR EVERYBODY , BUT ESPECIALLY FELICITY : -- I was awful glad to get your letters .
It makes you real important to be sick , but the time seems awful long when you 're getting better .
Your letters were all great , but I liked Felicity 's best , and next to hers the Story Girl 's .
Felicity , it will be awful good of you to send me things to eat and the rosebud plate .
I 'll be awful careful of it .
I hope you wo n't catch the measles , for they are not nice , especially when they strike in , but you would look all right , even if you did have red spots on your face .
I would like to try the Mexican Tea , because you want me to , but mother says no , she does n't believe in it , and Burtons Bitters are a great deal healthier .
If I was you I would get the velvet hood all right .
The heathen live in warm countries so they do n't want hoods .
`` I 'm glad you are still praying for me , Cecily , for you ca n't trust the measles .
And I 'm glad you 're keeping you know what for me .
I do n't believe anything will happen to you if you do take the measles ; but if anything does I 'd like that little red book of yours , The Safe Compass , just to remember you by .
It 's such a good book to read on Sundays .
It is interesting and religious , too .
So is the Bible .
I had n't quite finished the Bible before I took the measles , but ma is reading the last chapters to me .
There 's an awful lot in that book .
I ca n't understand the whole of it , since I 'm only a hired boy , but some parts are real easy .
`` I 'm awful glad you have such a good opinion of me .
I do n't deserve it , but after this I 'll try to .
I ca n't tell you how I feel about all your kindness .
I 'm like the fellow the Story Girl wrote about who could n't get it out .
I have the picture the Story Girl gave me for my sermon on the wall at the foot of my bed .
I like to look at it , it looks so much like Aunt Jane .
`` Felix , I 've given up praying that I 'd be the only one to eat the bitter apples , and I 'll never pray for anything like that again .
It was a horrid mean prayer .
I did n't know it then , but after the measles struck in I found out it was .
Aunt Jane would n't have liked it .
After this I 'm going to pray prayers I need n't be ashamed of .
`` Sara Ray , I do n't know what it feels like to be going to die because I did n't know I was going to die till I got better .
Mother says I was luny most of the time after they struck in .
It was just because they struck in I was luny .
I ai n't luny naturally , Felicity .
I will do what you asked in your postscript , Sara , although it will be hard .
`` I 'm glad Peg Bowen did n't catch you , Dan .
Maybe she bewitched me that night we were at her place , and that is why the measles struck in .
I 'm awful glad Mr. King is going to leave the potato stalks until I get well , and I 'm obliged to the Story Girl for coaxing him .
I guess she will find out about Alice yet .
There were some parts of her letter I could n't see through , but when the measles strike in , they leave you stupid for a spell .
Anyhow , it was a fine letter , and they were all fine , and I 'm awful glad I have so many nice friends , even if I am only a hired boy .
Perhaps I 'd never have found it out if the measles had n't struck in .
So I 'm glad they did but I hope they never will again .
`` Your obedient servant , `` PETER CRAIG . ''
CHAPTER XXXI .
ON THE EDGE OF LIGHT AND DARK We celebrated the November day when Peter was permitted to rejoin us by a picnic in the orchard .
Sara Ray was also allowed to come , under protest ; and her joy over being among us once more was almost pathetic .
She and Cecily cried in one another 's arms as if they had been parted for years .
We had a beautiful day for our picnic .
November dreamed that it was May .
The air was soft and mellow , with pale , aerial mists in the valleys and over the leafless beeches on the western hill .
The sere stubble fields brooded in glamour , and the sky was pearly blue .
The leaves were still thick on the apple trees , though they were russet hued , and the after-growth of grass was richly green , unharmed as yet by the nipping frosts of previous nights .
The wind made a sweet , drowsy murmur in the boughs , as of bees among apple blossoms .
`` It 's just like spring , is n't it ? ''
asked Felicity .
The Story Girl shook her head .
`` No , not quite .
It looks like spring , but it is n't spring .
It 's as if everything was resting -- getting ready to sleep .
In spring they 're getting ready to grow .
Ca n't you FEEL the difference ? ''
`` I think it 's just like spring , '' insisted Felicity .
In the sun-sweet place before the Pulpit Stone we boys had put up a board table .
Aunt Janet allowed us to cover it with an old tablecloth , the worn places in which the girls artfully concealed with frost-whitened ferns .
We had the kitchen dishes , and the table was gaily decorated with Cecily 's three scarlet geraniums and maple leaves in the cherry vase .
As for the viands , they were fit for the gods on high Olympus .
Felicity had spent the whole previous day and the forenoon of the picnic day in concocting them .
Her crowning achievement was a rich little plum cake , on the white frosting of which the words `` Welcome Back '' were lettered in pink candies .
This was put before Peter 's place , and almost overcame him .
`` To think that you 'd go to so much trouble for me ! ''
he said , with a glance of adoring gratitude at Felicity .
Felicity got all the gratitude , although the Story Girl had originated the idea and seeded the raisins and beaten the eggs , while Cecily had trudged all the way to Mrs. Jameson 's little shop below the church to buy the pink candies .
But that is the way of the world .
`` We ought to have grace , '' said Felicity , as we sat down at the festal board .
`` Will any one say it ? ''
She looked at me , but I blushed to the roots of my hair and shook my head sheepishly .
An awkward pause ensued ; it looked as if we would have to proceed without grace , when Felix suddenly shut his eyes , bent his head , and said a very good grace without any appearance of embarrassment .
We looked at him when it was over with an increase of respect .
`` Where on earth did you learn that , Felix ? ''
I asked .
`` It 's the grace Uncle Alec says at every meal , '' answered Felix .
We felt rather ashamed of ourselves .
Was it possible that we had paid so little attention to Uncle Alec 's grace that we did not recognize it when we heard it on other lips ?
`` Now , '' said Felicity jubilantly , `` let 's eat everything up . ''
In truth , it was a merry little feast .
We had gone without our dinners , in order to `` save our appetites , '' and we did ample justice to Felicity 's good things .
Paddy sat on the Pulpit Stone and watched us with great yellow eyes , knowing that tidbits would come his way later on .
Many witty things were said -- or at least we thought them witty -- and uproarious was the laughter .
Never had the old King orchard known a blither merrymaking or lighter hearts .
The picnic over , we played games until the early falling dusk , and then we went with Uncle Alec to the back field to burn the potato stalks -- the crowning delight of the day .
The stalks were in heaps all over the field , and we were allowed the privilege of setting fire to them .
'T was glorious !
In a few minutes the field was alight with blazing bonfires , over which rolled great , pungent clouds of smoke .
From pile to pile we ran , shrieking with delight , to poke each up with a long stick and watch the gush of rose-red sparks stream off into the night .
In what a whirl of smoke and firelight and wild , fantastic , hurtling shadows we were !
When we grew tired of our sport we went to the windward side of the field and perched ourselves on the high pole fence that skirted a dark spruce wood , full of strange , furtive sounds .
Over us was a great , dark sky , blossoming with silver stars , and all around lay dusky , mysterious reaches of meadow and wood in the soft , empurpled night .
Away to the east a shimmering silveryness beneath a palace of aerial cloud foretokened moonrise .
But directly before us the potato field , with its wreathing smoke and sullen flames , the gigantic shadow of Uncle Alec crossing and recrossing it , reminded us of Peter 's famous description of the bad place , and probably suggested the Story Girl 's remark .
`` I know a story , '' she said , infusing just the right shade of weirdness into her voice , `` about a man who saw the devil .
Now , what 's the matter , Felicity ? ''
`` I can never get used to the way you mention the -- the -- that name , '' complained Felicity .
`` To hear you speak of the Old Scratch any one would think he was just a common person . ''
`` Never mind .
Tell us the story , '' I said curiously .
`` It is about Mrs. John Martin 's uncle at Markdale , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I heard Uncle Roger telling it the other night .
He did n't know I was sitting on the cellar hatch outside the window , or I do n't suppose he would have told it .
Mrs. Martin 's uncle 's name was William Cowan , and he has been dead for twenty years ; but sixty years ago he was a young man , and a very wild , wicked young man .
He did everything bad he could think of , and never went to church , and he laughed at everything religious , even the devil .
He did n't believe there was a devil at all .
One beautiful summer Sunday evening his mother pleaded with him to go to church with her , but he would not .
He told her that he was going fishing instead , and when church time came he swaggered past the church , with his fishing rod over his shoulder , singing a godless song .
Half way between the church and the harbour there was a thick spruce wood , and the path ran through it .
When William Cowan was half way through it SOMETHING came out of the wood and walked beside him . ''
I have never heard anything more horribly suggestive than that innocent word `` something , '' as enunciated by the Story Girl .
I felt Cecily 's hand , icy cold , clutching mine .
`` What -- what -- was IT like ? ''
whispered Felix , curiosity getting the better of his terror .
`` IT was tall , and black , and hairy , '' said the Story Girl , her eyes glowing with uncanny intensity in the red glare of the fires , `` and IT lifted one great , hairy hand , with claws on the end of it , and clapped William Cowan , first on one shoulder and then on the other , and said , ` Good sport to you , brother . '
William Cowan gave a horrible scream and fell on his face right there in the wood .
Some of the men around the church door heard the scream , and they rushed down to the wood .
They saw nothing but William Cowan , lying like a dead man on the path .
They took him up and carried him home ; and when they undressed him to put him to bed , there , on each shoulder , was the mark of a big hand , BURNED INTO THE FLESH .
It was weeks before the burns healed , and the scars never went away .
Always , as long as William Cowan lived , he carried on his shoulders the prints of the devil 's hand . ''
I really do not know how we should ever have got home , had we been left to our own devices .
We were cold with fright .
How could we turn our backs on the eerie spruce wood , out of which SOMETHING might pop at any moment ?
How cross those long , shadowy fields between us and our rooftree ?
How venture through the darkly mysterious bracken hollow ?
Fortunately , Uncle Alec came along at this crisis and said he thought we 'd better come home now , since the fires were nearly out .
We slid down from the fence and started , taking care to keep close together and in front of Uncle Alec .
`` I do n't believe a word of that yarn , '' said Dan , trying to speak with his usual incredulity .
`` I do n't see how you can help believing it , '' said Cecily .
`` It is n't as if it was something we 'd read of , or that happened far away .
It happened just down at Markdale , and I 've seen that very spruce wood myself . ''
`` Oh , I suppose William Cowan got a fright of some kind , '' conceded Dan , `` but I do n't believe he saw the devil . ''
`` Old Mr. Morrison at Lower Markdale was one of the men who undressed him , and he remembers seeing the marks , '' said the Story Girl triumphantly .
`` How did William Cowan behave afterwards ? ''
I asked .
`` He was a changed man , '' said the Story Girl solemnly .
`` Too much changed .
He never was known to laugh again , or even smile .
He became a very religious man , which was a good thing , but he was dreadfully gloomy and thought everything pleasant sinful .
He would n't even eat any more than was actually necessary to keep him alive .
Uncle Roger says that if he had been a Roman Catholic he would have become a monk , but , as he was a Presbyterian , all he could do was to turn into a crank . ''
`` Yes , but your Uncle Roger was never clapped on the shoulder and called brother by the devil , '' said Peter .
`` If he had , he might n't have been so precious jolly afterwards himself . ''
`` I do wish to goodness , '' said Felicity in exasperation , `` that you 'd stop talking of the -- the -- of such subjects in the dark .
I 'm so scared now that I keep thinking father 's steps behind us are SOMETHING 'S .
Just think , my own father ! ''
The Story Girl slipped her arm through Felicity 's .
`` Never mind , '' she said soothingly .
`` I 'll tell you another story -- such a beautiful story that you 'll forget all about the devil . ''
She told us one of Hans Andersen 's most exquisite tales ; and the magic of her voice charmed away all our fear , so that when we reached the bracken hollow , a lake of shadow surrounded by the silver shore of moonlit fields , we all went through it without a thought of His Satanic Majesty at all .
And beyond us , on the hill , the homelight was glowing from the farmhouse window like a beacon of old loves .
CHAPTER XXXII .
THE OPENING OF THE BLUE CHEST November wakened from her dream of May in a bad temper .
The day after the picnic a cold autumn rain set in , and we got up to find our world a drenched , wind-writhen place , with sodden fields and dour skies .
The rain was weeping on the roof as if it were shedding the tears of old sorrows ; the willow by the gate tossed its gaunt branches wildly , as if it were some passionate , spectral thing , wringing its fleshless hands in agony ; the orchard was haggard and uncomely ; nothing seemed the same except the staunch , trusty , old spruces .
It was Friday , but we were not to begin going to school again until Monday , so we spent the day in the granary , sorting apples and hearing tales .
In the evening the rain ceased , the wind came around to the northwest , freezing suddenly , and a chilly yellow sunset beyond the dark hills seemed to herald a brighter morrow .
Felicity and the Story Girl and I walked down to the post-office for the mail , along a road where fallen leaves went eddying fitfully up and down before us in weird , uncanny dances of their own .
The evening was full of eerie sounds -- the creaking of fir boughs , the whistle of the wind in the tree-tops , the vibrations of strips of dried bark on the rail fences .
But we carried summer and sunshine in our hearts , and the bleak unloveliness of the outer world only intensified our inner radiance .
Felicity wore her new velvet hood , with a coquettish little collar of white fur about her neck .
Her golden curls framed her lovely face , and the wind stung the pink of her cheeks to crimson .
On my left hand walked the Story Girl , her red cap on her jaunty brown head .
She scattered her words along the path like the pearls and diamonds of the old fairy tale .
I remember that I strutted along quite insufferably , for we met several of the Carlisle boys and I felt that I was an exceptionally lucky fellow to have such beauty on one side and such charm on the other .
There was one of father 's thin letters for Felix , a fat , foreign letter for the Story Girl , addressed in her father 's minute handwriting , a drop letter for Cecily from some school friend , with `` In Haste '' written across the corner , and a letter for Aunt Janet , postmarked Montreal .
`` I ca n't think who that is from , '' said Felicity .
`` Nobody in Montreal ever writes to mother .
Cecily 's letter is from Em Frewen .
She always puts ` In Haste ' on her letters , no matter what is in them . ''
When we reached home , Aunt Janet opened and read her Montreal letter .
Then she laid it down and looked about her in astonishment .
`` Well , did ever any mortal ! ''
she said .
`` What in the world is the matter ? ''
said Uncle Alec .
`` This letter is from James Ward 's wife in Montreal , '' said Aunt Janet solemnly .
`` Rachel Ward is dead .
And she told James ' wife to write to me and tell me to open the old blue chest . ''
`` Hurrah ! ''
shouted Dan .
`` Donald King , '' said his mother severely , `` Rachel Ward was your relation and she is dead .
What do you mean by such behaviour ? ''
`` I never was acquainted with her , '' said Dan sulkily .
`` And I was n't hurrahing because she is dead .
I hurrahed because that blue chest is to be opened at last . ''
`` So poor Rachel is gone , '' said Uncle Alec .
`` She must have been an old woman -- seventy-five I suppose .
I remember her as a fine , blooming young woman .
Well , well , and so the old chest is to be opened at last .
What is to be done with its contents ? ''
`` Rachel left instructions about them , '' answered Aunt Janet , referring to the letter .
`` The wedding dress and veil and letters are to be burned .
There are two jugs in it which are to be sent to James ' wife .
The rest of the things are to be given around among the connection .
Each members is to have one , ` to remember her by . ' ''
`` Oh , ca n't we open it right away this very night ? ''
said Felicity eagerly .
`` No , indeed ! ''
Aunt Janet folded up the letter decidedly .
`` That chest has been locked up for fifty years , and it 'll stand being locked up one more night .
You children would n't sleep a wink to-night if we opened it now .
You 'd go wild with excitement . ''
`` I 'm sure I wo n't sleep anyhow , '' said Felicity .
`` Well , at least you 'll open it the first thing in the morning , wo n't you , ma ? ''
`` No , I 'll do nothing of the sort , '' was Aunt Janet 's pitiless decree .
`` I want to get the work out of the way first -- and Roger and Olivia will want to be here , too .
We 'll say ten o'clock to-morrow forenoon . ''
`` That 's sixteen whole hours yet , '' sighed Felicity .
`` I 'm going right over to tell the Story Girl , '' said Cecily .
`` Wo n't she be excited ! ''
We were all excited .
We spent the evening speculating on the possible contents of the chest , and Cecily dreamed miserably that night that the moths had eaten everything in it .
The morning dawned on a beautiful world .
A very slight fall of snow had come in the night -- just enough to look like a filmy veil of lace flung over the dark evergreens , and the hard frozen ground .
A new blossom time seemed to have revisited the orchard .
The spruce wood behind the house appeared to be woven out of enchantment .
There is nothing more beautiful than a thickly growing wood of firs lightly powdered with new-fallen snow .
As the sun remained hidden by gray clouds , this fairy-beauty lasted all day .
The Story Girl came over early in the morning , and Sara Ray , to whom faithful Cecily had sent word , was also on hand .
Felicity did not approve of this .
`` Sara Ray is n't any relation to our family , '' she scolded to Cecily , `` and she has no right to be present . ''
`` She 's a particular friend of mine , '' said Cecily with dignity .
`` We have her in everything , and it would hurt her feelings dreadfully to be left out of this .
Peter is no relation either , but he is going to be here when we open it , so why should n't Sara ? ''
`` Peter ai n't a member of the family YET , but maybe he will be some day .
Hey , Felicity ? ''
said Dan .
`` You 're awful smart , are n't you , Dan King ? ''
said Felicity , reddening .
`` Perhaps you 'd like to send for Kitty Marr , too -- though she DOES laugh at your big mouth . ''
`` It seems as if ten o'clock would never come , '' sighed the Story Girl .
`` The work is all done , and Aunt Olivia and Uncle Roger are here , and the chest might just as well be opened right away . ''
`` Mother SAID ten o'clock and she 'll stick to it , '' said Felicity crossly .
`` It 's only nine now . ''
`` Let us put the clock on half an hour , '' said the Story Girl .
`` The clock in the hall is n't going , so no one will know the difference . ''
We all looked at each other .
`` I would n't dare , '' said Felicity irresolutely .
`` Oh , if that 's all , I 'll do it , '' said the Story Girl .
When ten o'clock struck Aunt Janet came into the kitchen , remarking innocently that it had n't seemed anytime since nine .
We must have looked horribly guilty , but none of the grown-ups suspected anything .
Uncle Alec brought in the axe , and pried off the cover of the old blue chest , while everybody stood around in silence .
Then came the unpacking .
It was certainly an interesting performance .
Aunt Janet and Aunt Olivia took everything out and laid it on the kitchen table .
We children were forbidden to touch anything , but fortunately we were not forbidden the use of our eyes and tongues .
`` There are the pink and gold vases Grandmother King gave her , '' said Felicity , as Aunt Olivia unwrapped from their tissue paper swathings a pair of slender , old-fashioned , twisted vases of pink glass , over which little gold leaves were scattered .
`` Are n't they handsome ? ''
`` And oh , '' exclaimed Cecily in delight , `` there 's the china fruit basket with the apple on the handle .
Does n't it look real ?
I 've thought so much about it .
Oh , mother , please let me hold it for a minute .
I 'll be as careful as careful . ''
`` There comes the china set Grandfather King gave her , '' said the Story Girl wistfully .
`` Oh , it makes me feel sad .
Think of all the hopes that Rachel Ward must have put away in this chest with all her pretty things . ''
Following these , came a quaint little candlestick of blue china , and the two jugs which were to be sent to James ' wife .
`` They ARE handsome , '' said Aunt Janet rather enviously .
`` They must be a hundred years old .
Aunt Sara Ward gave them to Rachel , and she had them for at least fifty years .
I should have thought one would have been enough for James ' wife .
But of course we must do just as Rachel wished .
I declare , here 's a dozen tin patty pans ! ''
`` Tin patty pans are n't very romantic , '' said the Story Girl discontentedly .
`` I notice that you are as fond as any one of what is baked in them , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` I 've heard of those patty pans .
An old servant Grandmother King had gave them to Rachel .
Now we are coming to the linen .
That was Uncle Edward Ward 's present .
How yellow it has grown . ''
We children were not greatly interested in the sheets and tablecloths and pillow-cases which now came out of the capacious depths of the old blue chest .
But Aunt Olivia was quite enraptured over them .
`` What sewing ! ''
she said .
`` Look , Janet , you 'd almost need a magnifying glass to see the stitches .
And the dear , old-fashioned pillow-slips with buttons on them ! ''
`` Here are a dozen handkerchiefs , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` Look at the initial in the corner of each .
Rachel learned that stitch from a nun in Montreal .
It looks as if it was woven into the material . ''
`` Here are her quilts , '' said Aunt Olivia .
`` Yes , there is the blue and white counterpane Grandmother Ward gave her -- and the Rising Sun quilt her Aunt Nancy made for her -- and the braided rug .
The colours are not faded one bit .
I want that rug , Janet . ''
Underneath the linen were Rachel Ward 's wedding clothes .
The excitement of the girls waxed red hot over these .
There was a Paisley shawl in the wrappings in which it had come from the store , and a wide scarf of some yellowed lace .
There was the embroidered petticoat which had cost Felicity such painful blushes , and a dozen beautifully worked sets of the fine muslin `` undersleeves '' which had been the fashion in Rachel Ward 's youth .
`` This was to have been her appearing out dress , '' said Aunt Olivia , lifting out a shot green silk .
`` It is all cut to pieces -- but what a pretty soft shade it was !
Look at the skirt , Janet .
How many yards must it measure around ? ''
`` Hoopskirts were in then , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` I do n't see her wedding hat here .
I was always told that she packed it away , too . ''
`` So was I .
But she could n't have .
It certainly is n't here .
I have heard that the white plume on it cost a small fortune .
Here is her black silk mantle .
It seems like sacrilege to meddle with these clothes . ''
`` Do n't be foolish , Olivia .
They must be unpacked at least .
And they must all be burned since they have cut so badly .
This purple cloth dress is quite good , however .
It can be made over nicely , and it would become you very well , Olivia . ''
`` No , thank you , '' said Aunt Olivia , with a little shudder .
`` I should feel like a ghost .
Make it over for yourself , Janet . ''
`` Well , I will , if you do n't want it .
I am not troubled with fancies .
That seems to be all except this box .
I suppose the wedding dress is in it . ''
`` Oh , '' breathed the girls , crowding about Aunt Olivia , as she lifted out the box and cut the cord around it .
Inside was lying a dress of soft silk , that had once been white but was now yellowed with age , and , enfolding it like a mist , a long , white bridal veil , redolent with some strange , old-time perfume that had kept its sweetness through all the years .
`` Poor Rachel Ward , '' said Aunt Olivia softly .
`` Here is her point lace handkerchief .
She made it herself .
It is like a spider 's web .
Here are the letters Will Montague wrote her .
And here , '' she added , taking up a crimson velvet case with a tarnished gilt clasp , `` are their photographs -- his and hers . ''
We looked eagerly at the daguerreotypes in the old case .
`` Why , Rachel Ward was n't a bit pretty ! ''
exclaimed the Story Girl in poignant disappointment .
No , Rachel Ward was not pretty , that had to be admitted .
The picture showed a fresh young face , with strongly marked , irregular features , large black eyes , and black curls hanging around the shoulders in old-time style .
`` Rachel was n't pretty , '' said Uncle Alec , `` but she had a lovely colour , and a beautiful smile .
She looks far too sober in that picture . ''
`` She has a beautiful neck and bust , '' said Aunt Olivia critically .
`` Anyhow , Will Montague was really handsome , '' said the Story Girl .
`` A handsome rogue , '' growled Uncle Alec .
`` I never liked him .
I was only a little chap of ten but I saw through him .
Rachel Ward was far too good for him . ''
We would dearly have liked to get a peep into the letters , too .
But Aunt Olivia would not allow that .
They must be burned unread , she declared .
She took the wedding dress and veil , the picture case , and the letters away with her .
The rest of the things were put back into the chest , pending their ultimate distribution .
Aunt Janet gave each of us boys a handkerchief .
The Story Girl got the blue candlestick , and Felicity and Cecily each got a pink and gold vase .
Even Sara Ray was made happy by the gift of a little china plate , with a loudly coloured picture of Moses and Aaron before Pharaoh in the middle of it .
Moses wore a scarlet cloak , while Aaron disported himself in bright blue .
Pharaoh was arrayed in yellow .
The plate had a scalloped border with a wreath of green leaves around it .
`` I shall never use it to eat off , '' said Sara rapturously .
`` I 'll put it up on the parlour mantelpiece . ''
`` I do n't see much use in having a plate just for ornament , '' said Felicity .
`` It 's nice to have something interesting to look at , '' retorted Sara , who felt that the soul must have food as well as the body .
`` I 'm going to get a candle for my candlestick , and use it every night to go to bed with , '' said the Story Girl .
`` And I 'll never light it without thinking of poor Rachel Ward .
But I DO wish she had been pretty . ''
`` Well , '' said Felicity , with a glance at the clock , `` it 's all over , and it has been very interesting .
But that clock has got to be put back to the right time some time through the day .
I do n't want bedtime coming a whole half-hour before it ought to . ''
In the afternoon , when Aunt Janet was over at Uncle Roger 's , seeing him and Aunt Olivia off to town , the clock was righted .
The Story Girl and Peter came over to stay all night with us , and we made taffy in the kitchen , which the grown-ups kindly gave over to us for that purpose .
`` Of course it was very interesting to see the old chest unpacked , '' said the Story Girl as she stirred the contents of a saucepan vigorously .
`` But now that it is over I believe I am sorry that it is opened .
It is n't mysterious any longer .
We know all about it now , and we can never imagine what things are in it any more . ''
`` It 's better to know than to imagine , '' said Felicity .
`` Oh , no , it is n't , '' said the Story Girl quickly .
`` When you know things you have to go by facts .
But when you just dream about things there 's nothing to hold you down . ''
`` You 're letting the taffy scorch , and THAT 'S a fact you 'd better go by , '' said Felicity sniffing .
`` Have n't you got a nose ? ''
When we went to bed , that wonderful white enchantress , the moon , was making an elf-land of the snow-misted world outside .
From where I lay I could see the sharp tops of the spruces against the silvery sky .
The frost was abroad , and the winds were still and the land lay in glamour .
Across the hall , the Story Girl was telling Felicity and Cecily the old , old tale of Argive Helen and `` evil-hearted Paris . ''
`` But that 's a bad story , '' said Felicity when the tale was ended .
`` She left her husband and run away with another man . ''
`` I suppose it was bad four thousand years ago , '' admitted the Story Girl .
`` But by this time the bad must have all gone out of it .
It 's only the good that could last so long . ''
Our summer was over .
It had been a beautiful one .
We had known the sweetness of common joys , the delight of dawns , the dream and glamour of noontides , the long , purple peace of carefree nights .
We had had the pleasure of bird song , of silver rain on greening fields , of storm among the trees , of blossoming meadows , and of the converse of whispering leaves .
We had had brotherhood with wind and star , with books and tales , and hearth fires of autumn .
Ours had been the little , loving tasks of every day , blithe companionship , shared thoughts , and adventuring .
Rich were we in the memory of those opulent months that had gone from us -- richer than we then knew or suspected .
And before us was the dream of spring .
It is always safe to dream of spring .
For it is sure to come ; and if it be not just as we have pictured it , it will be infinitely sweeter .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___Little_Annie's_Ramble_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
DING-DONG !
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
The town crier has rung his bell , at a distant corner , and little Annie stands on her father 's doorsteps , trying to hear what the man with the loud voice is talking about .
Let me listen too .
O , he is telling the people that an elephant , and a lion , and a royal tiger , and a horse with horns , and other strange beasts from foreign countries , have come to town , and will receive all visitors who choose to wait upon them !
Perhaps little Annie would like to go .
Yes ; and I can see that the pretty child is weary of this wide and pleasant street , with the green trees flinging their shade across the quiet sunshine , and the pavements and the sidewalks all as clean as if the housemaid had just swept them with her broom .
She feels that impulse to go strolling away -- that longing after the mystery of the great world -- which many children feel , and which I felt in my childhood .
Little Annie shall take a ramble with me .
See !
I do but hold out my hand , and , like some bright bird in the sunny air , with her blue silk frock fluttering upwards from her white pantalets , she comes bounding on tiptoe across the street .
Smooth back your brown curls , Annie ; and let me tie on your bonnet , and we will set forth !
What a strange couple to go on their rambles together !
One walks in black attire , with a measured step , and a heavy brow , and his thoughtful eyes bent down , while the gay little girl trips lightly along , as if she were forced to keep hold of my hand , lest her feet should dance away from the earth .
Yet there is sympathy between us .
If I pride myself on anything , it is because I have a smile that children love ; and , on the other hand , there are few grown ladies that could entice me from the side of little Annie ; for I delight to let my mind go hand in hand with the mind of a sinless child .
So , come , Annie ; but if I moralize as we go , do not listen to me ; only look about you , and be merry !
Now we turn the corner .
Here are hacks with two horses , and stage-coaches with four , thundering to meet each other , and trucks and carts moving at a slower pace , being heavily laden with barrels from the wharves , and here are rattling gigs , which perhaps will be smashed to pieces before our eyes .
Hitherward , also , comes a man trundling a wheelbarrow along the pavement .
Is not little Annie afraid of such a tumult ?
No ; she does not even shrink closer to my side , but passes on with fearless confidence , a happy child amidst a great throng of grown people , who pay the same reverence to her infancy that they would to extreme old age .
Nobody jostles her ; all turn aside to make way for little Annie ; and , what is most singular , she appears conscious of her claim to such respect .
Now her eyes brighten with pleasure !
A street-musician has seated himself on the steps of yonder church , and pours forth his strains to the busy town , a melody that has gone astray among the tramp of footsteps , the buzz of voices , and the war of passing wheels .
Who heeds the poor organ-grinder ?
None but myself and little Annie , whose feet begin to move in unison with the lively tune , as if she were loath that music should be wasted without a dance .
But where would Annie find a partner ?
Some have the gout in their toes , or the rheumatism in their joints ; some are stiff with age ; some feeble with disease ; some are so lean that their bones would rattle , and others of such ponderous size that their agility would crack the flagstones ; but many , many have leaden feet , because their hearts are far heavier than lead .
It is a sad thought that I have chanced upon .
What a company of dancers should we be !
For I , too , am a gentleman of sober footsteps , and therefore , little Annie , let us walk sedately on .
It is a question with me , whether this giddy child , or my sage self , have most pleasure in looking at the shop-windows .
We love the silks of sunny hue , that glow within the darkened premises of the spruce drygoods ' men ; we are pleasantly dazzled by the burnished silver , and the chased gold , the rings of wedlock and the costly love-ornaments , glistening at the window of the jeweller ; but Annie , more than I , seeks for a glimpse of her passing figure in the dusty looking-glasses at the hardware stores .
All that is bright and gay attracts us both .
Here is a shop to which the recollections of my boyhood , as well as present partialities , give a peculiar magic .
How delightful to let the fancy revel on the dainties of a confectioner ; those pies , with such white and flaky paste , their contents being a mystery , whether rich mince , with whole plums intermixed , or piquant apple , delicately rose-flavored ; those cakes , heart-shaped or round , piled in a lofty pyramid ; those sweet little circlets , sweetly named kisses ; those dark , majestic masses , fit to be bridal-loaves at the wedding of an heiress , mountains in size , their summits deeply snow-covered with sugar !
Then the mighty treasures of sugar-plums , white and crimson and yellow , in large glass vases ; and candy of all varieties ; and those little cockles , or whatever they are called , much prized by children for their sweetness , and more for the mottoes which they enclose , by love-sick maids and bachelors !
O , my mouth waters , little Annie , and so doth yours ; but we will not be tempted , except to an imaginary feast ; so let us hasten onward , devouring the vision of a plum-cake .
Here are pleasures , as some people would say , of a more exalted kind , in the window of a bookseller .
Is Annie a literary lady ?
Yes ; she is deeply read in Peter Parley 's tomes , and has an increasing love for fairy-tales , though seldom met with nowadays , and she will subscribe , next year , to the Juvenile Miscellany .
But , truth to tell , she is apt to turn away from the printed page , and keep gazing at the pretty pictures , such as the gay-colored ones which make this shopwindow the continual loitering-place of children .
What would Annie think , if , in the book which I mean to send her , on New Year 's day , she should find her sweet little self , bound up in silk or morocco with gilt edges , there to remain till she become a woman grown with children of her own to read about their mother 's childhood !
That would be very queer .
Little Annie is weary of pictures , and pulls me onward by the hand , till suddenly we pause at the most wondrous shop in all the town .
O , my stars !
Is this a toy-shop , or is it fairy-land ?
For here are gilded chariots , in which the king and queen of the fairies might ride side by side , while their courtiers , on these small horses , should gallop in triumphal procession before and behind the royal pair .
Here , too , are dishes of china-ware , fit to be the dining set of those same princely personages , when they make a regal banquet in the stateliest ball of their palace , full five feet high , and behold their nobles feasting adown the long perspective of the table .
Betwixt the king and queen should sit my little Annie , the prettiest fairy of them all .
Here stands a turbaned Turk , threatening us with his sabre , like an ugly heathen as he is .
And next a Chinese mandarin , who nods his head at Annie and myself .
Here we may review a whole army of horse and foot , in red and blue uniforms , with drums , fifes , trumpets , and all kinds of noiseless music ; they have halted on the shelf of this window , after their weary march from Liliput .
But what cares Annie for soldiers ?
No conquering queen is she , neither a Semiramis nor a Catharine , her whole heart is set upon that doll , who gazes at us with such a fashionable stare .
This is the little girl 's true plaything .
Though made of wood , a doll is a visionary and ethereal personage , endowed by childish fancy with a peculiar life ; the mimic lady is a heroine of romance , an actor and a sufferer in a thousand shadowy scenes , the chief inhabitant of that wild world with which children ape the real one .
Little Annie does not understand what I am saying , but looks wishfully at the proud lady in the window .
We will invite her home with us as we return .
Meantime , good by , Dame Doll !
A toy yourself , you look forth from your window upon many ladies that are also toys , though they walk and speak , and upon a crowd in pursuit of toys , though they wear grave visages .
O , with your never-closing eyes , had you but an intellect to moralize on all that flits before them , what a wise doll would you be !
Come , little Annie , we shall find toys enough , go where we may .
Now we elbow our way among the throng again .
It is curious , in the most crowded part of a town , to meet with living creatures that had their birthplace in some far solitude , but have acquired a second nature in the wilderness of men .
Look up , Annie , at that canary-bird , hanging out of the window in his cage .
Poor little fellow !
His golden feathers are all tarnished in this smoky sunshine ; he would have glistened twice as brightly among the summer islands ; but still he has become a citizen in all his tastes and habits , and would not sing half so well without the uproar that drowns his music .
What a pity that he does not know how miserable he is !
There is a parrot , too , calling out , `` Pretty Poll !
Pretty Poll ! ''
as we pass by .
Foolish bird , to be talking about her prettiness to strangers , especially as she is not a pretty Poll , though gaudily dressed in green and yellow .
If she had said , `` Pretty Annie , '' there would have been some sense in it .
See that gray squirrel at the door of the fruit-shop , whirling round and round so merrily within his wire wheel !
Being condemned to the treadmill , he makes it an amusement .
Admirable philosophy !
Here comes a big , rough dog , a countryman 's dog in search of his master ; smelling at everybody 's heels , and touching little Annie 's hand with his cold nose , but hurrying away , though she would fain have patted him .
Success to your search , Fidelity !
And there sits a great yellow cat upon a window-sill , a very corpulent and comfortable cat , gazing at this transitory world , with owl 's eyes , and making pithy comments , doubtless , or what appear such , to the silly beast .
O sage puss , make room for me beside you , and we will be a pair of philosophers !
Here we see something to remind us of the town crier , and his ding-dong bell !
Look !
look at that great cloth spread out in the air , pictured all over with wild beasts , as if they had met together to choose a king , according to their custom in the days of AEsop .
But they are choosing neither a king nor a president ; else we should hear a most horrible snarling !
They have come from the deep woods , and the wild mountains , and the desert sands , and the polar snows , only to do homage to my little Annie .
As we enter among them , the great elephant makes us a bow , in the best style of elephantine courtesy , bending lowly down his mountain bulk , with trunk abased , and leg thrust out behind .
Annie returns the salute , much to the gratification of the elephant , who is certainly the best-bred monster in the caravan .
The lion and the lioness are busy with two beef-bones .
The royal tiger , the beautiful , the untamable , keeps pacing his narrow cage with a haughty step , unmindful of the spectators , or recalling the fierce deeds of his former life , when he was wont to leap forth upon such inferior animals , from the jungles of Bengal .
Here we see the very same wolf , -- do not go near him , Annie !
-- the self-same wolf that devoured little Red Riding Hood and her grandmother .
In the next cage , a hyena from Egypt , who has doubtless howled around the pyramids , and a black bear from our own forests are fellow-prisoners , and most excellent friends .
Are there any two living creatures who have so few sympathies that they can not possibly be friends ?
Here sits a great white bear , whom common observers would call a very stupid beast , though I perceive him to be only absorbed in contemplation ; he is thinking of his voyages on an iceberg , and of his comfortable home in the vicinity of the north pole , and of the little cubs whom he left rolling in the eternal snows .
In fact , he is a bear of sentiment .
But , O , those unsentimental monkeys the ugly , grinning , aping , chattering , ill-natured , mischievous , and queer little brutes .
Annie does not love the monkeys .
Their ugliness shocks her pure , instinctive delicacy of taste , and makes her mind unquiet , because it bears a wild and dark resemblance to humanity .
But here is a little pony , just big enough for Annie to ride , and round and round he gallops in a circle , keeping time with his trampling hoofs to a band of music .
And here , -- with a laced coat and a cocked hat , and a riding whip in his hand , -- here comes a little gentleman , small enough to be king of the fairies , and ugly enough to be king of the gnomes , and takes a flying leap into the saddle .
Merrily , merrily plays the music , and merrily gallops the pony , and merrily rides the little old gentleman .
Come , Annie , into the street again ; perchance we may see monkeys on horseback there !
Mercy on us , what a noisy world we quiet people live in !
Did Annie ever read the Cries of London City ?
With what lusty lungs doth yonder man proclaim that his wheelbarrow is full of lobsters !
Here comes another mounted on a cart , and blowing a hoarse and dreadful blast from a tin horn , as much as to say , `` Fresh fish ! ''
And hark !
a voice on high , like that of a muezzin from the summit of a mosque , announcing that some chimney-sweeper has emerged from smoke and soot , and darksome caverns , into the upper air .
What cares the world for that ?
But , well-a-day , we hear a shrill voice of affliction , the scream of a little child , rising louder with every repetition of that smart , sharp , slapping sound , produced by an open hand on tender flesh .
Annie sympathizes , though without experience of such direful woe .
Lo !
the town crier again , with some new secret for the public ear .
Will he tell us of an auction , or of a lost pocketbook , or a show of beautiful wax figures , or of some monstrous beast more horrible than any in the caravan ?
I guess the latter .
See how he uplifts the bell in his right hand , and shakes it slowly at first , then with a hurried motion , till the clapper seems to strike both sides at once , and the sounds are scattered forth in quick succession , far and near .
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Now he raises his clear , loud voice , above all the din of the town ; it drowns the buzzing talk of many tongues , and draws each man 's mind from his own business ; it rolls up and down the echoing street and ascends to the hushed chamber of the sick , and penetrates downward to the cellar kitchen , where the hot cook turns from the fire to listen .
Who , of all that address the public ear , whether in church , or court-house , or hall of state , has such an attentive audience as the town crier ?
What saith the people 's orator ?
`` Strayed from her home , a LITTLE GIRL , of five years old , in a blue silk frock and white pantalets , with brown curling hair and hazel eyes .
Whoever will bring her back to her afflicted mother -- '' Stop , stop , town crier !
The lost is found .
O , my pretty Annie , we forgot to tell your mother of our ramble , and she is in despair , and has sent the town crier to bellow up and down the streets , afrighting old and young , for the loss of a little girl who has not once let go my hand !
Well , let us hasten homeward ; and as we go , forget not to thank Heaven , my Annie , that , after wandering a little way into the world , you may return at the first summons , with an untainted and unwearied heart , and be a happy child again .
But I have gone too far astray for the town crier to call me back .
Sweet has been the charm of childhood on my spirit , throughout my ramble with little Annie !
Say not that it has been a waste of precious moments , an idle matter , a babble of childish talk , and a revery of childish imaginations , about topics unworthy of a grown man 's notice .
Has it been merely this ?
Not so ; not so .
They are not truly wise who would affirm it .
As the pure breath of children revives the life of aged men , so is our moral nature revived by their free and simple thoughts , their native feeling , their airy mirth , for little cause or none , their grief , soon roused and soon allayed .
Their influence on us is at least reciprocal with ours on them .
When our infancy is almost forgotten , and our boyhood long departed , though it seems but as yesterday ; when life settles darkly down upon us , and we doubt whether to call ourselves young any more , then it is good to steal away from the society of bearded men , and even of gentler woman , and spend an hour or two with children .
After drinking from those fountains of still fresh existence , we shall return into the crowd , as I do now , to struggle onward and do our part in life , perhaps as fervently as ever , but , for a time , with a kinder and purer heart , and a spirit more lightly wise .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___Snow_Flakes_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
There is snow in yonder cold gray sky of the morning !
- and , through the partially frosted window-panes , I love to watch the gradual beginning of the storm .
A few feathery flakes are scattered widely through the air , and hover downward with uncertain flight , now almost alighting on the earth , now whirled again aloft into remote regions of the atmosphere .
These are not the big flakes , heavy with moisture , which melt as they touch the ground , and are portentous of a soaking rain .
It is to be , in good earnest , a wintry storm .
The two or three people , visible on the side-walks , have an aspect of endurance , a blue-nosed , frosty fortitude , which is evidently assumed in anticipation of a comfortless and blustering day .
By nightfall , or at least before the sun sheds another glimmering smile upon us , the street and our little garden will be heaped with mountain snow-drifts .
The soil , already frozen for weeks past , is prepared to sustain whatever burden may be laid upon it ; and , to a northern eye , the landscape will lose its melancholy bleakness and acquire a beauty of its own , when Mother Earth , like her children , shall have put on the fleecy garb of her winter 's wear .
The cloud-spirits are slowly weaving her white mantle .
As yet , indeed , there is barely a rime like hoarfrost over the brown surface of the street ; the withered green of the grass-plat is still discernible ; and the slated roofs of the houses do but begin to look gray , instead of black .
All the snow that has yet fallen within the circumference of my view , were it heaped up together , would hardly equal the hillock of a grave .
Thus gradually , by silent and stealthy influences , are great changes wrought .
These little snow-particles , which the storm-spirit flings by handfuls through the air , will bury the great earth under their accumulated mass , nor permit her to behold her sister sky again for dreary months .
We , likewise , shall lose sight of our mother 's familiar visage , and must content ourselves with looking heavenward the oftener .
Now , leaving the storm to do his appointed office , let us sit down , pen in hand , by our fireside .
Gloomy as it may seem , there is an influence productive of cheerfulness , and favorable to imaginative thought , in the atmosphere of a snowy day .
The native of a southern clime may woo the muse beneath the heavy shade of summer foliage , reclining on banks of turf , while the sound of singing birds and warbling rivulets chimes in with the music of his soul .
In our brief summer , I do not think , but only exist in the vague enjoyment of a dream .
My hour of inspiration -- if that hour ever comes -- is when the green log hisses upon the hearth , and the bright flame , brighter for the gloom of the chamber , rustles high up the chimney , and the coals drop tinkling down among the growing heaps of ashes .
When the casement rattles in the gust , and the snow-flakes or the sleety raindrops pelt hard against the window-panes , then I spread out my sheet of paper , with the certainty that thoughts and fancies will gleam forth upon it , like stars at twilight , or like violets in May , -- perhaps to fade as soon .
However transitory their glow , they at least shine amid the darksome shadow which the clouds of the outward sky fling through the room .
Blessed , therefore , and reverently welcomed by me , her true-born son , be New England 's winter , which makes us , one and all , the nurslings of the storm , and sings a familiar lullaby even in the wildest shriek of the December blast .
Now look we forth again , and see how much of his task the storm-spirit has done .
Slow and sure !
He has the day , perchance the week , before him , and may take his own time to accomplish Nature 's burial in snow .
A smooth mantle is scarcely yet thrown over the withered grass-plat , and the dry stalks of annuals still thrust themselves through the white surface in all parts of the garden .
The leafless rose-bushes stand shivering in a shallow snow-drift , looking , poor things !
as disconsolate as if they possessed a human consciousness of the dreary scene .
This is a sad time for the shrubs that do not perish with the summer ; they neither live nor die ; what they retain of life seems but the chilling sense of death .
Very sad are the flower shrubs in midwinter !
The roofs of the houses are now all white , save where the eddying wind has kept them bare at the bleak corners .
To discern the real intensity of the storm , we must fix upon some distant object , -- as yonder spire,-and observe how the riotous gust fights with the descending snow throughout the intervening space .
Sometimes the entire prospect is obscured ; then , again , we have a distinct , but transient glimpse of the tall steeple , like a giant 's ghost ; and now the dense wreaths sweep between , as if demons were flinging snowdrifts at each other , in mid-air .
Look next into the street , where we have seen an amusing parallel to the combat of those fancied demons in the upper regions .
It is a snow-battle of school-boys .
What a pretty satire on war and military glory might be written , in the form of a child 's story , by describing the snowball-fights of two rival schools , the alternate defeats and victories of each , and the final triumph of one party , or perhaps of neither !
What pitched battles , worthy to be chanted in Homeric strains !
What storming of fortresses , built all of massive snowblocks !
What feats of individual prowess , and embodied onsets of martial enthusiasm !
And when some well-contested and decisive victory had put a period to the war , both armies should unite to build a lofty monument of snow upon the battle-field , and crown it with the victor 's statue , hewn of the same frozen marble .
In a few days or weeks thereafter , the passer-by would observe a shapeless mound upon the level common ; and , unmindful of the famous victory , would ask , `` How came it there ?
Who reared it ?
And what means it ? ''
The shattered pedestal of many a battle monument has provoked these questions , when none could answer .
Turn we again to the fireside , and sit musing there , lending our ears to the wind , till perhaps it shall seem like an articulate voice , and dictate wild and airy matter for the pen .
Would it might inspire me to sketch out the personification of a New England winter !
And that idea , if I can seize the snow-wreathed figures that flit before my fancy , shall be the theme of the next page .
How does Winter herald his approach ?
By the shrieking blast of latter autumn , which is Nature 's cry of lamentation , as the destroyer rushes among the shivering groves where she has lingered , and scatters the sear leaves upon the tempest .
When that cry is heard , the people wrap themselves in cloaks , and shake their heads disconsolately , saying , `` Winter is at hand ! ''
Then the axe of the woodcutter echoes sharp and diligently in the forest ; then the coal-merchants rejoice , because each shriek of Nature in her agony adds something to the price of coal per ton ; then the peat-smoke spreads its aromatic fragrance through the atmosphere .
A few days more ; and at eventide , the children look out of the window , and dimly perceive the flaunting of a snowy mantle in the air .
It is stern Winter 's vesture .
They crowd around the hearth , and cling to their mother 's gown , or press between their father 's knees , affrighted by the hollow roaring voice , that bellows a-down the wide flue of the chimney .
It is the voice of Winter ; and when parents and children bear it , they shudder and exclaim , `` Winter is come !
Cold Winter has begun his reign already ! ''
Now , throughout New England , each hearth becomes an altar , sending up the smoke of a continued sacrifice to the immitigable deity who tyrannizes over forest , country side , and town .
Wrapped in his white mantle , his staff a huge icicle , his beard and hair a wind-tossed snow-drift , he travels over the land , in the midst of the northern blast ; and woe to the homeless wanderer whom he finds upon his path !
There he lies stark and stiff , a human shape of ice , on the spot where Winter overtook him .
On strides the tyrant over the rushing rivers and broad lakes , which turn to rock beneath his footsteps .
His dreary empire is established ; all around stretches the desolation of the Pole .
Yet not ungrateful be his New England children , -- for Winter is our sire , though a stern and rough one , -- not ungrateful even for the severities , which have nourished our unyielding strength of character .
And let us thank him , too , for the sleigh-rides , cheered by the music of merry bells ; for the crackling and rustling hearth , when the ruddy firelight gleams on hardy Manhood and the blooming cheek of Woman ; for all the home enjoyments , and the kindred virtues , which flourish in a frozen soil .
Not that we grieve , when , after some seven months of storm and bitter frost , Spring , in the guise of a flower-crowned virgin , is seen driving away the hoary despot , pelting him with violets by the handful , and strewing green grass on the path behind him .
Often , ere he will give up his empire , old Winter rushes fiercely back , and hurls a snow-drift at the shrinking form of Spring ; yet , step by step , he is compelled to retreat northward , and spends the summer months within the Arctic circle .
Such fantasies , intermixed among graver toils of mind , have made the winter 's day pass pleasantly .
Meanwhile , the storm has raged without abatement , and now , as the brief afternoon declines , is tossing denser volumes to and fro about the atmosphere .
On the window-sill , there is a layer of snow , reaching half-way up the lowest pane of glass .
The garden is one unbroken bed .
Along the street are two or three spots of uncovered earth , where the gust has whirled away the snow , heaping it elsewhere to the fence-tops , or piling huge banks against the doors of houses .
A solitary passenger is seen , now striding mid-leg deep across a drift , now scudding over the bare ground , while his cloak is swollen with the wind .
And now the jingling of bells , a sluggish sound , responsive to the horse 's toilsome progress through the unbroken drifts , announces the passage of a sleigh , with a boy clinging behind , and ducking his head to escape detection by the driver .
Next comes a sledge , laden with wood for some unthrifty housekeeper , whom winter has surprised at a cold hearth .
But what dismal equipage now struggles along the uneven street ?
A sable hearse , bestrewn with snow , is bearing a dead man through the storm to his frozen bed .
O , how dreary is a burial in winter , when the bosom of Mother Earth has no warmth for her poor child !
Evening -- the early eve of December -- begins to spread its deepening veil over the comfortless scene ; the firelight gradually brightens , and throws my flickering shadow upon the walls and ceiling of the chamber ; but still the storm rages and rattles , against the windows .
Alas !
I shiver , and think it time to be disconsolate .
But , taking a farewell glance at dead Nature in her shroud , I perceive a flock of snow-birds , skimming lightsomely through the tempest , and flitting from drift to drift , as sportively as swallows in the delightful prime of summer .
Whence come they ?
Where do they build their nests , and seek their food ?
Why , having airy wings , do they not follow summer around the earth , instead of making themselves the playmates of the storm , and fluttering on the dreary verge of the winter 's eve ?
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___Sunday_at_Home_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
Every Sabbath morning in the summer time I thrust back the curtain , to watch the sunrise stealing down a steeple , which stands opposite my chamber-window .
First , the weathercock begins to flash ; then , a fainter lustre gives the spire an airy aspect ; next it encroaches on the tower , and causes the index of the dial to glisten like gold , as it points to the gilded figure of the hour .
Now , the loftiest window gleams , and now the lower .
The carved framework of the portal is marked strongly out .
At length , the morning glory , in its descent from heaven , comes down the stone steps , one by one ; and there stands the steeple , glowing with fresh radiance , while the shades of twilight still hide themselves among the nooks of the adjacent buildings .
Methinks , though the same sun brightens it every fair morning , yet the steeple has a peculiar robe of brightness for the Sabbath .
By dwelling near a church , a person soon contracts an attachment for the edifice .
We naturally personify it , and conceive its massive walls and its dim emptiness to be instinct with a calm , and meditative , and somewhat melancholy spirit .
But the steeple stands foremost , in our thoughts , as well as locally .
It impresses us as a giant , with a mind comprehensive and discriminating enough to care for the great and small concerns of all the town .
Hourly , while it speaks a moral to the few that think , it reminds thousands of busy individuals of their separate and most secret affairs .
It is the steeple , too , that flings abroad the hurried and irregular accents of general alarm ; neither have gladness and festivity found a better utterance , than by its tongue ; and when the dead are slowly passing to their home , the steeple has a melancholy voice to bid them welcome .
Yet , in spite of this connection with human interests , what a moral loneliness , on week-days , broods round about its stately height !
It has no kindred with the houses above which it towers ; it looks down into the narrow thoroughfare , the lonelier , because the crowd are elbowing their passage at its base .
A glance at the body of the church deepens this impression .
Within , by the light of distant windows , amid refracted shadows , we discern the vacant pews and empty galleries , the silent organ , the voiceless pulpit , and the clock , which tells to solitude how time is passing .
Time , -- where man lives not , -- what is it but eternity ?
And in the church , we might suppose , are garnered up , throughout the week , all thoughts and feelings that have reference to eternity , until the holy day comes round again , to let them forth .
Might not , then , its more appropriate site be in the outskirts of the town , with space for old trees to wave around it , and throw their solemn shadows over a quiet green ?
We will say more of this , hereafter .
But , on the Sabbath , I watch the earliest sunshine , and fancy that a holier brightness marks the day , when there shall be no buzz of voices on the exchange , nor traffic in the shops , nor crowd , nor business , anywhere but at church .
Many have fancied so .
For my own part , whether I see it scattered down among tangled woods , or beaming broad across the fields , or hemmed in between brick buildings , or tracing out the figure of the casement on my chamber-floor , still I recognize the Sabbath sunshine .
And ever let me recognize it !
Some illusions , and this among them , are the shadows of great truths .
Doubts may flit around me , or seem to close their evil wings , and settle down ; but so long as I imagine that the earth is hallowed , and the light of heaven retains its sanctity , on the Sabbath , -- while that blessed sunshine lives within me , -- never can my soul have lost the instinct of its faith .
If it have gone astray , it will return again .
I love to spend such pleasant Sabbaths , from morning till night , behind the curtain of my open window .
Are they spent amiss ?
Every spot , so near the church as to be visited by the circling shadow of the steeple , should be deemed consecrated ground , to-day .
With stronger truth be it said , that a devout heart may consecrate a den of thieves , as an evil one may convert a temple to the same .
My heart , perhaps , has not such holy , nor , I would fain trust , such impious potency .
It must suffice , that , though my form be absent , my inner man goes constantly to church , while many , whose bodily presence fills the accustomed seats , have left their souls at home .
But I am there , even before my friend , the sexton .
At length , he comes , -- a man of kindly , but sombre aspect , in dark gray clothes , and hair of the same mixture , -- he comes and applies his key to the wide portal .
Now my thoughts may go in among the dusty pews , or ascend the pulpit without sacrilege , but soon come forth again to enjoy the music of the bell .
How glad , yet solemn too !
All the steeples in town are talking together , aloft in the sunny air , and rejoicing among themselves , while their spires point heavenward .
Meantime , here are the children assembling to the Sabbath school , which is kept somewhere within the church .
Often , while looking at the arched portal , I have been gladdened by the sight of a score of these little girls and boys , in pink , blue , yellow , and crimson frocks , bursting suddenly forth into the sunshine , like a swarm of gay butterflies that had been shut up in the solemn gloom .
Or I might compare them to cherubs , haunting that holy place .
About a quarter of an hour before the second ringing of the bell , individuals of the congregation begin to appear .
The earliest is invariably an old woman in black , whose bent frame and rounded shoulders are evidently laden with some heavy affliction , which she is eager to rest upon the altar .
Would that the Sabbath came twice as often , for the sake of that sorrowful old soul !
There is an elderly man , also , who arrives in good season , and leans against the corner of the tower , just within the line of its shadow , looking downward with a darksome brow .
I sometimes fancy that the old woman is the happier of the two .
After these , others drop in singly , and by twos and threes , either disappearing through the doorway or taking their stand in its vicinity .
At last , and always with an unexpected sensation , the bell turns in the steeple overhead , and throws out an irregular clangor , jarring the tower to its foundation .
As if there were magic in the sound , the sidewalks of the street , both up and down along , are immediately thronged with two long lines of people , all converging hitherward , and streaming into the church .
Perhaps the far-off roar of a coach draws nearer , -- a deeper thunder by its contrast with the surrounding stillness , -- until it sets down the wealthy worshippers at the portal , among their humblest brethren .
Beyond that entrance , in theory at least , there are no distinctions of earthly rank ; nor indeed , by the goodly apparel which is flaunting in the sun , would there seem to be such , on the hither side .
Those pretty girls !
Why will they disturb my pious meditations !
Of all days in the week , they should strive to look least fascinating on the Sabbath , instead of heightening their mortal loveliness , as if to rival the blessed angels , and keep our thoughts from heaven .
Were I the minister himself , I must needs look .
One girl is white muslin from the waist upwards , and black silk downwards to her slippers ; a second blushes from topknot to shoe-tie , one universal scarlet ; another shines of a pervading yellow , as if she had made a garment of the sunshine .
The greater part , however , have adopted a milder cheerfulness of hue .
Their veils , especially when the wind raises them , give a lightness to the general effect , and make them appear like airy phantoms , as they flit up the steps , and vanish into the sombre doorway .
Nearly all -- though it is very strange that I should know it -- wear white stockings , white as snow , and neat slippers , laced crosswise with black ribbon , pretty high above the ankles .
A white stocking is infinitely more effective than a black one .
Here comes the clergyman , slow and solemn , in severe simplicity , needing no black silk gown to denote his office .
His aspect claims my reverence , but can not win my love .
Were I to picture Saint Peter , keeping fast the gate of heaven , and frowning , more stern than pitiful , on the wretched applicants , that face should be my study .
By middle age , or sooner , the creed has generally wrought upon the heart , or been a-tempered by it .
As the minister passes into the church , the bell holds its iron tongue , and all the low murmur of the congregation dies away .
The gray sexton looks up and down the street , and then at my window-curtain , where , through the small peephole , I half fancy that he has caught my eye .
Now , every loiterer has gone in , and the street lies asleep in the quiet sun , while a feeling of loneliness comes over me , and brings also an uneasy sense of neglected privileges and duties .
O , I ought to have gone to church !
The hustle of the rising congregation reaches my ears .
They are standing up to pray .
Could I bring my heart into unison with those who are praying in yonder church , and lift it heavenward , with a fervor of supplication , but no distinct request , would not that be the safest kind of prayer ?
`` Lord , look down upon me in mercy ! ''
With that sentiment gushing from my soul , might I not leave all the rest to Him ?
Hark !
the hymn .
This , at least , is a portion of the service which I can enjoy better than if I sat within the walls , where the full choir and the massive melody of the organ , would fall with a weight upon me .
At this distance , it thrills through my frame , and plays upon my heartstrings , with a pleasure both of the sense and spirit .
Heaven be praised , I know nothing of music , as a science ; and the most elaborate harmonies , if they please me , please as simply as a nurse 's lullaby .
The strain has ceased , but prolongs itself in my mind , with fanciful echoes , till I start from my revery , and find that the sermon has commenced .
It is my misfortune seldom to fructify , in a regular way , by any but printed sermons .
The first strong idea , which the preacher utters , gives birth to a train of thought , and leads me onward , step by step , quite out of hearing of the good man 's voice , unless he be indeed a son of thunder .
At my open window , catching now and then a sentence of the `` parson 's saw , '' I am as well situated as at the foot of the pulpit stairs .
The broken and scattered fragments of this one discourse will be the texts of many sermons , preached by those colleague pastors , -- colleagues , but often disputants , -- my Mind and Heart .
The former pretends to be a scholar , and perplexes me with doctrinal points ; the latter takes me on the score of feeling ; and both , like several other preachers , spend their strength to very little purpose .
I , their sole auditor , can not always understand them .
Suppose that a few hours have passed , and behold me still behind my curtain , just before the close of the afternoon service .
The hour-hand on the dial has passed beyond four o'clock .
The declining sun is hidden behind the steeple , and throws its shadow straight across the street , so that my chamber is darkened , as with a cloud .
Around the church-door all is solitude , and an impenetrable obscurity beyond the threshold .
A commotion is heard .
The seats are slammed down , and the pew-doors thrown back , -- a multitude of feet are trampling along the unseen aisles , -- and the congregation bursts suddenly through the portal .
Foremost , scampers a rabble of boys , behind whom moves a dense and dark phalanx of grown men , and lastly , a crowd of females , with young children , and a few scattered husbands .
This instantaneous outbreak of life into loneliness is one of the pleasantest scenes of the day .
Some of the good people are rubbing their eyes , thereby intimating that they have been wrapped , as it were , in a sort of holy trance , by the fervor of their devotion .
There is a young man , a third-rate coxcomb , whose first care is always to flourish a white handkerchief , and brush the seat of a tight pair of black silk pantaloons , which shine as if varnished .
They must have been made of the stuff called `` everlasting , '' or perhaps of the same piece as Christian 's garments in the Pilgrim 's Progress , for he put them on two summers ago , and has not yet worn the gloss off .
I have taken a great liking to those black silk pantaloons .
But , now , with nods and greetings among friends , each matron takes her husband 's arm , and paces gravely homeward , while the girls also flutter away , after arranging sunset walks with their favored bachelors .
The Sabbath eve is the eve of love .
At length , the whole congregation is dispersed .
No ; here , with faces as glossy as black satin , come two sable ladies and a sable gentleman , and close in their rear the minister , who softens his severe visage , and bestows a kind word on each .
Poor souls !
To them the most captivating picture of bliss in heaven is -- `` There we shall be white ! ''
All is solitude again .
But , hark !
-- a broken warbling of voices , and now , attuning its grandeur to their sweetness , a stately peal of the organ .
Who are the choristers ?
Let me dream that the angels , who came down from heaven , this blessed morn , to blend themselves with the worship of the truly good , are playing and singing their farewell to the earth .
On the wings of that rich melody they were borne upward .
This , gentle reader , is merely a flight of poetry .
A few of the singing men and singing women had lingered behind their fellows , and raised their voices fitfully , and blew a careless note upon the organ .
Yet , it lifted my soul higher than all their former strains .
They are gone , the sons and daughters of music , -- and the gray sexton is just closing the portal .
For six days more , there will be no face of man in the pews , and aisles , and galleries , nor a voice in the pulpit , nor music in the choir .
Was it worth while to rear this massive edifice , to be a desert in the heart of the town , and populous only for a few hours of each seventh day ?
O , but the church is a symbol of religion !
May its site , which was consecrated on the day when the first tree was felled , be kept holy forever , a spot of solitude and peace , amid the trouble and vanity of our week-day world !
There is a moral , and a religion too , even in the silent walls .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___Tanglewood_Tales.txt.out
THE WAYSIDE .
INTRODUCTORY .
A short time ago , I was favored with a flying visit from my young friend Eustace Bright , whom I had not before met with since quitting the breezy mountains of Berkshire .
It being the winter vacation at his college , Eustace was allowing himself a little relaxation , in the hope , he told me , of repairing the inroads which severe application to study had made upon his health ; and I was happy to conclude , from the excellent physical condition in which I saw him , that the remedy had already been attended with very desirable success .
He had now run up from Boston by the noon train , partly impelled by the friendly regard with which he is pleased to honor me , and partly , as I soon found , on a matter of literary business .
It delighted me to receive Mr. Bright , for the first time , under a roof , though a very humble one , which I could really call my own .
Nor did I fail -LRB- as is the custom of landed proprietors all about the world -RRB- to parade the poor fellow up and down over my half a dozen acres ; secretly rejoicing , nevertheless , that the disarray of the inclement season , and particularly the six inches of snow then upon the ground , prevented him from observing the ragged neglect of soil and shrubbery into which the place had lapsed .
It was idle , however , to imagine that an airy guest from Monument Mountain , Bald Summit , and old Graylock , shaggy with primeval forests , could see anything to admire in my poor little hillside , with its growth of frail and insect-eaten locust trees .
Eustace very frankly called the view from my hill top tame ; and so , no doubt , it was , after rough , broken , rugged , headlong Berkshire , and especially the northern parts of the county , with which his college residence had made him familiar .
But to me there is a peculiar , quiet charm in these broad meadows and gentle eminences .
They are better than mountains , because they do not stamp and stereotype themselves into the brain , and thus grow wearisome with the same strong impression , repeated day after day .
A few summer weeks among mountains , a lifetime among green meadows and placid slopes , with outlines forever new , because continually fading out of the memory -- such would be my sober choice .
I doubt whether Eustace did not internally pronounce the whole thing a bore , until I led him to my predecessor 's little ruined , rustic summer house , midway on the hillside .
It is a mere skeleton of slender , decaying tree trunks , with neither walls nor a roof ; nothing but a tracery of branches and twigs , which the next wintry blast will be very likely to scatter in fragments along the terrace .
It looks , and is , as evanescent as a dream ; and yet , in its rustic network of boughs , it has somehow enclosed a hint of spiritual beauty , and has become a true emblem of the subtile and ethereal mind that planned it .
I made Eustace Bright sit down on a snow bank , which had heaped itself over the mossy seat , and gazing through the arched windows opposite , he acknowledged that the scene at once grew picturesque .
`` Simple as it looks , '' said he , `` this little edifice seems to be the work of magic .
It is full of suggestiveness , and , in its way , is as good as a cathedral .
Ah , it would be just the spot for one to sit in , of a summer afternoon , and tell the children some more of those wild stories from the classic myths ! ''
`` It would , indeed , '' answered I. `` The summer house itself , so airy and so broken , is like one of those old tales , imperfectly remembered ; and these living branches of the Baldwin apple tree , thrusting so rudely in , are like your unwarrantable interpolations .
But , by the by , have you added any more legends to the series , since the publication of the ` Wonder-Book ' ? ''
`` Many more , '' said Eustace ; `` Primrose , Periwinkle , and the rest of them , allow me no comfort of my life unless I tell them a story every day or two .
I have run away from home partly to escape the importunity of these little wretches !
But I have written out six of the new stories , and have brought them for you to look over . ''
`` Are they as good as the first ? ''
I inquired .
`` Better chosen , and better handled , '' replied Eustace Bright .
`` You will say so when you read them . ''
`` Possibly not , '' I remarked .
`` I know from my own experience , that an author 's last work is always his best one , in his own estimate , until it quite loses the red heat of composition .
After that , it falls into its true place , quietly enough .
But let us adjourn to my study , and examine these new stories .
It would hardly be doing yourself justice , were you to bring me acquainted with them , sitting here on this snow bank ! ''
So we descended the hill to my small , old cottage , and shut ourselves up in the south-eastern room , where the sunshine comes in , warmly and brightly , through the better half of a winter 's day .
Eustace put his bundle of manuscript into my hands ; and I skimmed through it pretty rapidly , trying to find out its merits and demerits by the touch of my fingers , as a veteran story-teller ought to know how to do .
It will be remembered that Mr. Bright condescended to avail himself of my literary experience by constituting me editor of the `` Wonder-Book . ''
As he had no reason to complain of the reception of that erudite work by the public , he was now disposed to retain me in a similar position with respect to the present volume , which he entitled TANGLEWOOD TALES .
Not , as Eustace hinted , that there was any real necessity for my services as introducer , inasmuch as his own name had become established in some good degree of favor with the literary world .
But the connection with myself , he was kind enough to say , had been highly agreeable ; nor was he by any means desirous , as most people are , of kicking away the ladder that had perhaps helped him to reach his present elevation .
My young friend was willing , in short , that the fresh verdure of his growing reputation should spread over my straggling and half-naked boughs ; even as I have sometimes thought of training a vine , with its broad leafiness , and purple fruitage , over the worm-eaten posts and rafters of the rustic summer house .
I was not insensible to the advantages of his proposal , and gladly assured him of my acceptance .
Merely from the title of the stories I saw at once that the subjects were not less rich than those of the former volume ; nor did I at all doubt that Mr. Bright 's audacity -LRB- so far as that endowment might avail -RRB- had enabled him to take full advantage of whatever capabilities they offered .
Yet , in spite of my experience of his free way of handling them , I did not quite see , I confess , how he could have obviated all the difficulties in the way of rendering them presentable to children .
These old legends , so brimming over with everything that is most abhorrent to our Christianized moral sense some of them so hideous , others so melancholy and miserable , amid which the Greek tragedians sought their themes , and moulded them into the sternest forms of grief that ever the world saw ; was such material the stuff that children 's playthings should be made of !
How were they to be purified ?
How was the blessed sunshine to be thrown into them ?
But Eustace told me that these myths were the most singular things in the world , and that he was invariably astonished , whenever he began to relate one , by the readiness with which it adapted itself to the childish purity of his auditors .
The objectionable characteristics seem to be a parasitical growth , having no essential connection with the original fable .
They fall away , and are thought of no more , the instant he puts his imagination in sympathy with the innocent little circle , whose wide-open eyes are fixed so eagerly upon him .
Thus the stories -LRB- not by any strained effort of the narrator 's , but in harmony with their inherent germ -RRB- transform themselves , and re-assume the shapes which they might be supposed to possess in the pure childhood of the world .
When the first poet or romancer told these marvellous legends -LRB- such is Eustace Bright 's opinion -RRB- , it was still the Golden Age .
Evil had never yet existed ; and sorrow , misfortune , crime , were mere shadows which the mind fancifully created for itself , as a shelter against too sunny realities ; or , at most , but prophetic dreams to which the dreamer himself did not yield a waking credence .
Children are now the only representatives of the men and women of that happy era ; and therefore it is that we must raise the intellect and fancy to the level of childhood , in order to re-create the original myths .
I let the youthful author talk as much and as extravagantly as he pleased , and was glad to see him commencing life with such confidence in himself and his performances .
A few years will do all that is necessary towards showing him the truth in both respects .
Meanwhile , it is but right to say , he does really appear to have overcome the moral objections against these fables , although at the expense of such liberties with their structure as must be left to plead their own excuse , without any help from me .
Indeed , except that there was a necessity for it -- and that the inner life of the legends can not be come at save by making them entirely one 's own property -- there is no defense to be made .
Eustace informed me that he had told his stories to the children in various situations -- in the woods , on the shore of the lake , in the dell of Shadow Brook , in the playroom , at Tanglewood fireside , and in a magnificent palace of snow , with ice windows , which he helped his little friends to build .
His auditors were even more delighted with the contents of the present volume than with the specimens which have already been given to the world .
The classically learned Mr. Pringle , too , had listened to two or three of the tales , and censured them even more bitterly than he did THE THREE GOLDEN APPLES ; so that , what with praise , and what with criticism , Eustace Bright thinks that there is good hope of at least as much success with the public as in the case of the `` WonderBook . ''
I made all sorts of inquiries about the children , not doubting that there would be great eagerness to hear of their welfare , among some good little folks who have written to me , to ask for another volume of myths .
They are all , I am happy to say -LRB- unless we except Clover -RRB- , in excellent health and spirits .
Primrose is now almost a young lady , and , Eustace tells me , is just as saucy as ever .
She pretends to consider herself quite beyond the age to be interested by such idle stories as these ; but , for all that , whenever a story is to be told , Primrose never fails to be one of the listeners , and to make fun of it when finished .
Periwinkle is very much grown , and is expected to shut up her baby house and throw away her doll in a month or two more .
Sweet Fern has learned to read and write , and has put on a jacket and pair of pantaloons -- all of which improvements I am sorry for .
Squash Blossom , Blue Eye , Plantain , and Buttercup have had the scarlet fever , but came easily through it .
Huckleberry , Milkweed , and Dandelion were attacked with the whooping cough , but bore it bravely , and kept out of doors whenever the sun shone .
Cowslip , during the autumn , had either the measles , or some eruption that looked very much like it , but was hardly sick a day .
Poor Clover has been a good deal troubled with her second teeth , which have made her meagre in aspect and rather fractious in temper ; nor , even when she smiles , is the matter much mended , since it discloses a gap just within her lips , almost as wide as the barn door .
But all this will pass over , and it is predicted that she will turn out a very pretty girl .
As for Mr. Bright himself , he is now in his senior year at Williams College , and has a prospect of graduating with some degree of honorable distinction at the next Commencement .
In his oration for the bachelor 's degree , he gives me to understand , he will treat of the classical myths , viewed in the aspect of baby stories , and has a great mind to discuss the expediency of using up the whole of ancient history , for the same purpose .
I do not know what he means to do with himself after leaving college , but trust that , by dabbling so early with the dangerous and seductive business of authorship , he will not be tempted to become an author by profession .
If so I shall be very sorry for the little that I have had to do with the matter , in encouraging these first beginnings .
I wish there were any likelihood of my soon seeing Primrose , Periwinkle , Dandelion , Sweet Fern , Clover Plantain , Huckleberry , Milkweed , Cowslip , Buttercup , Blue Eye , and Squash Blossom again .
But as I do not know when I shall re-visit Tanglewood , and as Eustace Bright probably will not ask me to edit a third `` WonderBook , '' the public of little folks must not expect to hear any more about those dear children from me .
Heaven bless them , and everybody else , whether grown people or children !
THE MINOTAUR .
In the old city of Troezene , at the foot of a lofty mountain , there lived , a very long time ago , a little boy named Theseus .
His grandfather , King Pittheus , was the sovereign of that country , and was reckoned a very wise man ; so that Theseus , being brought up in the royal palace , and being naturally a bright lad , could hardly fail of profiting by the old king 's instructions .
His mother 's name was Aethra .
As for his father , the boy had never seen him .
But , from his earliest remembrance , Aethra used to go with little Theseus into a wood , and sit down upon a moss-grown rock , which was deeply sunken into the earth .
Here she often talked with her son about his father , and said that he was called Aegeus , and that he was a great king , and ruled over Attica , and dwelt at Athens , which was as famous a city as any in the world .
Theseus was very fond of hearing about King Aegeus , and often asked his good mother Aethra why he did not come and live with them at Troezene .
`` Ah , my dear son , '' answered Aethra , with a sigh , `` a monarch has his people to take care of .
The men and women over whom he rules are in the place of children to him ; and he can seldom spare time to love his own children as other parents do .
Your father will never be able to leave his kingdom for the sake of seeing his little boy . ''
`` Well , but , dear mother , '' asked the boy , `` why can not I go to this famous city of Athens , and tell King Aegeus that I am his son ? ''
`` That may happen by and by , '' said Aethra .
`` Be patient , and we shall see .
You are not yet big and strong enough to set out on such an errand . ''
`` And how soon shall I be strong enough ? ''
Theseus persisted in inquiring .
`` You are but a tiny boy as yet , '' replied his mother .
`` See if you can lift this rock on which we are sitting ? ''
The little fellow had a great opinion of his own strength .
So , grasping the rough protuberances of the rock , he tugged and toiled amain , and got himself quite out of breath , without being able to stir the heavy stone .
It seemed to be rooted into the ground .
No wonder he could not move it ; for it would have taken all the force of a very strong man to lift it out of its earthy bed .
His mother stood looking on , with a sad kind of a smile on her lips and in her eyes , to see the zealous and yet puny efforts of her little boy .
She could not help being sorrowful at finding him already so impatient to begin his adventures in the world .
`` You see how it is , my dear Theseus , '' said she .
`` You must possess far more strength than now before I can trust you to go to Athens , and tell King Aegeus that you are his son .
But when you can lift this rock , and show me what is hidden beneath it , I promise you my permission to depart . ''
Often and often , after this , did Theseus ask his mother whether it was yet time for him to go to Athens ; and still his mother pointed to the rock , and told him that , for years to come , he could not be strong enough to move it .
And again and again the rosy-checked and curly-headed boy would tug and strain at the huge mass of stone , striving , child as he was , to do what a giant could hardly have done without taking both of his great hands to the task .
Meanwhile the rock seemed to be sinking farther and farther into the ground .
The moss grew over it thicker and thicker , until at last it looked almost like a soft green seat , with only a few gray knobs of granite peeping out .
The overhanging trees , also , shed their brown leaves upon It , as often as the autumn came ; and at its base grew ferns and wild flowers , some of which crept quite over its surface .
To all appearance , the rock was as firmly fastened as any other portion of the earth 's substance .
But , difficult as the matter looked , Theseus was now growing up to be such a vigorous youth , that , in his own opinion , the time would quickly come when he might hope to get the upper hand of this ponderous lump of stone .
`` Mother , I do believe it has started ! ''
cried he , after one of his attempts .
`` The earth around it is certainly a little cracked ! ''
`` No , no , child ! ''
his mother hastily answered .
`` It is not possible you can have moved it , such a boy as you still are ! ''
Nor would she be convinced , although Theseus showed her the place where he fancied that the stem of a flower had been partly uprooted by the movement of the rock .
But Aethra sighed , and looked disquieted ; for , no doubt , she began to be conscious that her son was no longer a child , and that , in a little while hence , she must send him forth among the perils and troubles of the world .
It was not more than a year afterwards when they were again sitting on the moss-covered stone .
Aethra had once more told him the oft-repeated story of his father , and how gladly he would receive Theseus at his stately palace , and how he would present him to his courtiers and the people , and tell them that here was the heir of his dominions .
The eyes of Theseus glowed with enthusiasm , and he would hardly sit still to hear his mother speak .
`` Dear mother Aethra , '' he exclaimed , `` I never felt half so strong as now !
I am no longer a child , nor a boy , nor a mere youth !
I feel myself a man !
It is now time to make one earnest trial to remove the stone . ''
`` Ah , my dearest Theseus , '' replied his mother `` not yet !
not yet ! ''
`` Yes , mother , '' said he , resolutely , `` the time has come ! ''
Then Theseus bent himself in good earnest to the task , and strained every sinew , with manly strength and resolution .
He put his whole brave heart into the effort .
He wrestled with the big and sluggish stone , as if it had been a living enemy .
He heaved , he lifted , he resolved now to succeed , or else to perish there , and let the rock be his monument forever !
Aethra stood gazing at him , and clasped her hands , partly with a mother 's pride , and partly with a mother 's sorrow .
The great rock stirred !
Yes , it was raised slowly from the bedded moss and earth , uprooting the shrubs and flowers along with it , and was turned upon its side .
Theseus had conquered !
While taking breath , he looked joyfully at his mother , and she smiled upon him through her tears .
`` Yes , Theseus , '' she said , `` the time has come , and you must stay no longer at my side !
See what King Aegeus , your royal father , left for you beneath the stone , when he lifted it in his mighty arms , and laid it on the spot whence you have now removed it . ''
Theseus looked , and saw that the rock had been placed over another slab of stone , containing a cavity within it ; so that it somewhat resembled a roughly-made chest or coffer , of which the upper mass had served as the lid .
Within the cavity lay a sword , with a golden hilt , and a pair of sandals .
`` That was your father 's sword , '' said Aethra , `` and those were his sandals .
When he went to be king of Athens , he bade me treat you as a child until you should prove yourself a man by lifting this heavy stone .
That task being accomplished , you are to put on his sandals , in order to follow in your father 's footsteps , and to gird on his sword , so that you may fight giants and dragons , as King Aegeus did in his youth . ''
`` I will set out for Athens this very day ! ''
cried Theseus .
But his mother persuaded him to stay a day or two longer , while she got ready some necessary articles for his journey .
When his grandfather , the wise King Pittheus , heard that Theseus intended to present himself at his father 's palace , he earnestly advised him to get on board of a vessel , and go by sea ; because he might thus arrive within fifteen miles of Athens , without either fatigue or danger .
`` The roads are very bad by land , '' quoth the venerable king ; `` and they are terribly infested with robbers and monsters .
A mere lad , like Theseus , is not fit to be trusted on such a perilous journey , all by himself .
No , no ; let him go by sea . ''
But when Theseus heard of robbers and monsters , he pricked up his ears , and was so much the more eager to take the road along which they were to be met with .
On the third day , therefore , he bade a respectful farewell to his grandfather , thanking him for all his kindness ; and , after affectionately embracing his mother , he set forth with a good many of her tears glistening on his cheeks , and some , if the truth must be told , that had gushed out of his own eyes .
But he let the sun and wind dry them , and walked stoutly on , playing with the golden hilt of his sword , and taking very manly strides in his father 's sandals .
I can not stop to tell you hardly any of the adventures that befell Theseus on the road to Athens .
It is enough to say , that he quite cleared that part of the country of the robbers about whom King Pittheus had been so much alarmed .
One of these bad people was named Procrustes ; and he was indeed a terrible fellow , and had an ugly way of making fun of the poor travelers who happened to fall into his clutches .
In his cavern he had a bed , on which , with great pretense of hospitality , he invited his guests to lie down ; but , if they happened to be shorter than the bed , this wicked villain stretched them out by main force ; or , if they were too tall , he lopped off their heads or feet , and laughed at what he had done , as an excellent joke .
Thus , however weary a man might be , he never liked to lie in the bed of Procrustes .
Another of these robbers , named Scinis , must likewise have been a very great scoundrel .
He was in the habit of flinging his victims off a high cliff into the sea ; and , in order to give him exactly his deserts , Theseus tossed him off the very same place .
But if you will believe me , the sea would not pollute itself by receiving such a bad person into its bosom ; neither would the earth , having once got rid of him , consent to take him back ; so that , between the cliff and the sea , Scinis stuck fast in the air , which was forced to bear the burden of his naughtiness .
After these memorable deeds , Theseus heard of an enormous sow , which ran wild , and was the terror of all the farmers round about ; and , as he did not consider himself above doing any good thing that came in his way , he killed this monstrous creature , and gave the carcass to the poor people for bacon .
The great sow had been an awful beast , while ramping about the woods and fields , but was a pleasant object enough when cut up into joints , and smoking on I know not how many dinner tables .
Thus , by the time he reached his journey 's end , Theseus had done many valiant feats with his father 's golden-hilted sword , and had gained the renown of being one of the bravest young men of the day .
His fame traveled faster than he did , and reached Athens before him .
As he entered the city , he heard the inhabitants talking at the street corners , and saying that Hercules was brave , and Jason too , and Castor and Pollux likewise , but that Theseus , the son of their own king , would turn out as great a hero as the best of them .
Theseus took longer strides on hearing this , and fancied himself sure of a magnificent reception at his father 's court , since he came thither with Fame to blow her trumpet before him , and cry to King Aegeus , `` Behold your son ! ''
He little suspected , innocent youth that he was , that here , in this very Athens , where his father reigned , a greater danger awaited him than any which he had encountered on the road .
Yet this was the truth .
You must understand that the father of Theseus , though not very old in years , was almost worn out with the cares of government , and had thus grown aged before his time .
His nephews , not expecting him to live a very great while , intended to get all the power of the kingdom into their own hands .
But when they heard that Theseus had arrived in Athens , and learned what a gallant young man he was , they saw that he would not be at all the kind of a person to let them steal away his father 's crown and scepter , which ought to be his own by right of inheritance .
Thus these bad-hearted nephews of King Aegeus , who were the own cousins of Theseus , at once became his enemies .
A still more dangerous enemy was Medea , the wicked enchantress ; for she was now the king 's wife , and wanted to give the kingdom to her son Medus , instead of letting it be given to the son of Aethra , whom she hated .
It so happened that the king 's nephews met Theseus , and found out who he was , just as he reached the entrance of the royal palace .
With all their evil designs against him , they pretended to be their cousin 's best friends , and expressed great joy at making his acquaintance .
They proposed to him that he should come into the king 's presence as a stranger , in order to try whether Aegeus would discover in the young man 's features any likeness either to himself or his mother Aethra , and thus recognize him for a son .
Theseus consented ; for he fancied that his father would know him in a moment , by the love that was in his heart .
But , while he waited at the door , the nephews ran and told King Aegeus that a young man had arrived in Athens , who , to their certain knowledge , intended to put him to death , and get possession of his royal crown .
`` And he is now waiting for admission to your majesty 's presence , '' added they .
`` Aha ! ''
cried the old king , on hearing this .
`` Why , he must be a very wicked young fellow indeed !
Pray , what would you advise me to do with him ? ''
In reply to this question , the wicked Medea put in her word .
As I have already told you , she was a famous enchantress .
According to some stories , she was in the habit of boiling old people in a large caldron , under pretense of making them young again ; but King Aegeus , I suppose , did not fancy such an uncomfortable way of growing young , or perhaps was contented to be old , and therefore would never let himself be popped into the caldron .
If there were time to spare from more important matters , I should be glad to tell you of Medea 's fiery chariot , drawn by winged dragons , in which the enchantress used often to take an airing among the clouds .
This chariot , in fact , was the vehicle that first brought her to Athens , where she had done nothing but mischief ever since her arrival .
But these and many other wonders must be left untold ; and it is enough to say , that Medea , amongst a thousand other bad things , knew how to prepare a poison , that was instantly fatal to whomsoever might so much as touch it with his lips .
So , when the king asked what he should do with Theseus , this naughty woman had an answer ready at her tongue 's end .
`` Leave that to me , please your majesty , '' she replied .
`` Only admit this evil-minded young man to your presence , treat him civilly , and invite him to drink a goblet of wine .
Your majesty is well aware that I sometimes amuse myself by distilling very powerful medicines .
Here is one of them in this small phial .
As to what it is made of , that is one of my secrets of state .
Do but let me put a single drop into the goblet , and let the young man taste it ; and I will answer for it , he shall quite lay aside the bad designs with which he comes hither . ''
As she said this , Medea smiled ; but , for all her smiling face , she meant nothing less than to poison the poor innocent Theseus , before his father 's eyes .
And King Aegeus , like most other kings , thought any punishment mild enough for a person who was accused of plotting against his life .
He therefore made little or no objection to Medea 's scheme , and as soon as the poisonous wine was ready , gave orders that the young stranger should be admitted into his presence .
The goblet was set on a table beside the king 's throne ; and a fly , meaning just to sip a little from the brim , immediately tumbled into it , dead .
Observing this , Medea looked round at the nephews , and smiled again .
When Theseus was ushered into the royal apartment , the only object that he seemed to behold was the white-bearded old king .
There he sat on his magnificent throne , a dazzling crown on his head , and a scepter in his hand .
His aspect was stately and majestic , although his years and infirmities weighed heavily upon him , as if each year were a lump of lead , and each infirmity a ponderous stone , and all were bundled up together , and laid upon his weary shoulders .
The tears both of joy and sorrow sprang into the young man 's eyes ; for he thought how sad it was to see his dear father so infirm , and how sweet it would be to support him with his own youthful strength , and to cheer him up with the alacrity of his loving spirit .
When a son takes a father into his warm heart it renews the old man 's youth in a better way than by the heat of Medea 's magic caldron .
And this was what Theseus resolved to do .
He could scarcely wait to see whether King Aegeus would recognize him , so eager was he to throw himself into his arms .
Advancing to the foot of the throne , he attempted to make a little speech , which he had been thinking about , as he came up the stairs .
But he was almost choked by a great many tender feelings that gushed out of his heart and swelled into his throat , all struggling to find utterance together .
And therefore , unless he could have laid his full , over-brimming heart into the king 's hand , poor Theseus knew not what to do or say .
The cunning Medea observed what was passing in the young man 's mind .
She was more wicked at that moment than ever she had been before ; for -LRB- and it makes me tremble to tell you of it -RRB- she did her worst to turn all this unspeakable love with which Theseus was agitated to his own ruin and destruction .
`` Does your majesty see his confusion ? ''
she whispered in the king 's ear .
`` He is so conscious of guilt , that he trembles and can not speak .
The wretch lives too long !
Quick !
offer him the wine ! ''
Now King Aegeus had been gazing earnestly at the young stranger , as he drew near the throne .
There was something , he knew not what , either in his white brow , or in the fine expression of his mouth , or in his beautiful and tender eyes , that made him indistinctly feel as if he had seen this youth before ; as if , indeed , he had trotted him on his knee when a baby , and had beheld him growing to be a stalwart man , while he himself grew old .
But Medea guessed how the king felt , and would not suffer him to yield to these natural sensibilities ; although they were the voice of his deepest heart , telling him as plainly as it could speak , that here was our dear son , and Aethra 's son , coming to claim him for a father .
The enchantress again whispered in the king 's ear , and compelled him , by her witchcraft , to see everything under a false aspect .
He made up his mind , therefore , to let Theseus drink off the poisoned wine .
`` Young man , '' said he , `` you are welcome !
I am proud to show hospitality to so heroic a youth .
Do me the favor to drink the contents of this goblet .
It is brimming over , as you see , with delicious wine , such as I bestow only on those who are worthy of it !
None is more worthy to quaff it than yourself ! ''
So saying , King Aegeus took the golden goblet from the table , and was about to offer it to Theseus .
But , partly through his infirmities , and partly because it seemed so sad a thing to take away this young man 's life .
however wicked he might be , and partly , no doubt , because his heart was wiser than his head , and quaked within him at the thought of what he was going to do -- for all these reasons , the king 's hand trembled so much that a great deal of the wine slopped over .
In order to strengthen his purpose , and fearing lest the whole of the precious poison should be wasted , one of his nephews now whispered to him : `` Has your Majesty any doubt of this stranger 's guilt ?
This is the very sword with which he meant to slay you .
How sharp , and bright , and terrible it is !
Quick !
-- let him taste the wine ; or perhaps he may do the deed even yet . ''
At these words , Aegeus drove every thought and feeling out of his breast , except the one idea of how justly the young man deserved to be put to death .
He sat erect on his throne , and held out the goblet of wine with a steady hand , and bent on Theseus a frown of kingly severity ; for , after all , he had too noble a spirit to murder even a treacherous enemy with a deceitful smile upon his face .
`` Drink ! ''
said he , in the stern tone with which he was wont to condemn a criminal to be beheaded .
`` You have well deserved of me such wine as this ! ''
Theseus held out his hand to take the wine .
But , before he touched it , King Aegeus trembled again .
His eyes had fallen on the gold-hilted sword that hung at the young man 's side .
He drew back the goblet .
`` That sword ! ''
he exclaimed : `` how came you by it ? ''
`` It was my father 's sword , '' replied Theseus , with a tremulous voice .
`` These were his sandals .
My dear mother -LRB- her name is Aethra -RRB- told me his story while I was yet a little child .
But it is only a month since I grew strong enough to lift the heavy stone , and take the sword and sandals from beneath it , and come to Athens to seek my father . ''
`` My son !
my son ! ''
cried King Aegeus , flinging away the fatal goblet , and tottering down from the throne to fall into the arms of Theseus .
`` Yes , these are Aethra 's eyes .
It is my son . ''
I have quite forgotten what became of the king 's nephews .
But when the wicked Medea saw this new turn of affairs , she hurried out of the room , and going to her private chamber , lost no time to setting her enchantments to work .
In a few moments , she heard a great noise of hissing snakes outside of the chamber window ; and behold !
there was her fiery chariot , and four huge winged serpents , wriggling and twisting in the air , flourishing their tails higher than the top of the palace , and all ready to set off on an aerial journey .
Medea staid only long enough to take her son with her , and to steal the crown jewels , together with the king 's best robes , and whatever other valuable things she could lay hands on ; and getting into the chariot , she whipped up the snakes , and ascended high over the city .
The king , hearing the hiss of the serpents , scrambled as fast as he could to the window , and bawled out to the abominable enchantress never to come back .
The whole people of Athens , too , who had run out of doors to see this wonderful spectacle , set up a shout of joy at the prospect of getting rid of her .
Medea , almost bursting with rage , uttered precisely such a hiss as one of her own snakes , only ten times more venomous and spiteful ; and glaring fiercely out of the blaze of the chariot , she shook her hands over the multitude below , as if she were scattering a million of curses among them .
In so doing , however , she unintentionally let fall about five hundred diamonds of the first water , together with a thousand great pearls , and two thousand emeralds , rubies , sapphires , opals , and topazes , to which she had helped herself out of the king 's strong box .
All these came pelting down , like a shower of many-colored hailstones , upon the heads of grown people and children , who forthwith gathered them up , and carried them back to the palace .
But King Aegeus told them that they were welcome to the whole , and to twice as many more , if he had them , for the sake of his delight at finding his son , and losing the wicked Medea .
And , indeed , if you had seen how hateful was her last look , as the flaming chariot flew upward , you would not have wondered that both king and people should think her departure a good riddance .
And now Prince Theseus was taken into great favor by his royal father .
The old king was never weary of having him sit beside him on his throne -LRB- which was quite wide enough for two -RRB- , and of hearing him tell about his dear mother , and his childhood , and his many boyish efforts to lift the ponderous stone .
Theseus , however , was much too brave and active a young man to be willing to spend all his time in relating things which had already happened .
His ambition was to perform other and more heroic deeds , which should be better worth telling in prose and verse .
Nor had he been long in Athens before he caught and chained a terrible mad bull , and made a public show of him , greatly to the wonder and admiration of good King Aegeus and his subjects .
But pretty soon , he undertook an affair that made all his foregone adventures seem like mere boy 's play .
The occasion of it was as follows : One morning , when Prince Theseus awoke , he fancied that he must have had a very sorrowful dream , and that it was still running in his mind , even now that his eyes were opened .
For it appeared as if the air was full of a melancholy wail ; and when he listened more attentively , he could hear sobs , and groans , and screams of woe , mingled with deep , quiet sighs , which came from the king 's palace , and from the streets , and from the temples , and from every habitation in the city .
And all these mournful noises , issuing out of thousands of separate hearts , united themselves into one great sound of affliction , which had startled Theseus from slumber .
He put on his clothes as quickly as he could -LRB- not forgetting his sandals and gold-hilted sword -RRB- , and , hastening to the king , inquired what it all meant .
`` Alas !
my son , '' quoth King Aegeus , heaving a long sigh , `` here is a very lamentable matter in hand !
This is the wofulest anniversary in the whole year .
It is the day when we annually draw lots to see which of the youths and maids of Athens shall go to be devoured by the horrible Minotaur ! ''
`` The Minotaur ! ''
exclaimed Prince Theseus ; and like a brave young prince as he was , he put his hand to the hilt of his sword .
`` What kind of a monster may that be ?
Is it not possible , at the risk of one 's life , to slay him ? ''
But King Aegeus shook his venerable head , and to convince Theseus that it was quite a hopeless case , he gave him an explanation of the whole affair .
It seems that in the island of Crete there lived a certain dreadful monster , called a Minotaur , which was shaped partly like a man and partly like a bull , and was altogether such a hideous sort of a creature that it is really disagreeable to think of him .
If he were suffered to exist at all , it should have been on some desert island , or in the duskiness of some deep cavern , where nobody would ever be tormented by his abominable aspect .
But King Minos , who reigned over Crete , laid out a vast deal of money in building a habitation for the Minotaur , and took great care of his health and comfort , merely for mischief 's sake .
A few years before this time , there had been a war between the city of Athens and the island of Crete , in which the Athenians were beaten , and compelled to beg for peace .
No peace could they obtain , however , except on condition that they should send seven young men and seven maidens , every year , to be devoured by the pet monster of the cruel King Minos .
For three years past , this grievous calamity had been borne .
And the sobs , and groans , and shrieks , with which the city was now filled , were caused by the people 's woe , because the fatal day had come again , when the fourteen victims were to be chosen by lot ; and the old people feared lest their sons or daughters might be taken , and the youths and damsels dreaded lest they themselves might be destined to glut the ravenous maw of that detestable man-brute .
But when Theseus heard the story , he straightened himself up , so that he seemed taller than ever before ; and as for his face it was indignant , despiteful , bold , tender , and compassionate , all in one look .
`` Let the people of Athens this year draw lots for only six young men , instead of seven , '' said he , `` I will myself be the seventh ; and let the Minotaur devour me if he can ! ''
`` O my dear son , '' cried King Aegeus , `` why should you expose yourself to this horrible fate ?
You are a royal prince , and have a right to hold yourself above the destinies of common men . ''
`` It is because I am a prince , your son , and the rightful heir of your kingdom , that I freely take upon me the calamity of your subjects , '' answered Theseus , `` And you , my father , being king over these people , and answerable to Heaven for their welfare , are bound to sacrifice what is dearest to you , rather than that the son or daughter of the poorest citizen should come to any harm . ''
The old king shed tears , and besought Theseus not to leave him desolate in his old age , more especially as he had but just begun to know the happiness of possessing a good and valiant son .
Theseus , however , felt that he was in the right , and therefore would not give up his resolution .
But he assured his father that he did not intend to be eaten up , unresistingly , like a sheep , and that , if the Minotaur devoured him , it should not be without a battle for his dinner .
And finally , since he could not help it , King Aegeus consented to let him go .
So a vessel was got ready , and rigged with black sails ; and Theseus , with six other young men , and seven tender and beautiful damsels , came down to the harbor to embark .
A sorrowful multitude accompanied them to the shore .
There was the poor old king , too , leaning on his son 's arm , and looking as if his single heart held all the grief of Athens .
Just as Prince Theseus was going on board , his father bethought himself of one last word to say .
`` My beloved son , '' said he , grasping the Prince 's hand , `` you observe that the sails of this vessel are black ; as indeed they ought to be , since it goes upon a voyage of sorrow and despair .
Now , being weighed down with infirmities , I know not whether I can survive till the vessel shall return .
But , as long as I do live , I shall creep daily to the top of yonder cliff , to watch if there be a sail upon the sea .
And , dearest Theseus , if by some happy chance , you should escape the jaws of the Minotaur , then tear down those dismal sails , and hoist others that shall be bright as the sunshine .
Beholding them on the horizon , myself and all the people will know that you are coming back victorious , and will welcome you with such a festal uproar as Athens never heard before . ''
Theseus promised that he would do so .
Then going on board , the mariners trimmed the vessel 's black sails to the wind , which blew faintly off the shore , being pretty much made up of the sighs that everybody kept pouring forth on this melancholy occasion .
But by and by , when they had got fairly out to sea , there came a stiff breeze from the north-west , and drove them along as merrily over the white-capped waves as if they had been going on the most delightful errand imaginable .
And though it was a sad business enough , I rather question whether fourteen young people , without any old persons to keep them in order , could continue to spend the whole time of the voyage in being miserable .
There had been some few dances upon the undulating deck , I suspect , and some hearty bursts of laughter , and other such unseasonable merriment among the victims , before the high blue mountains of Crete began to show themselves among the far-off clouds .
That sight , to be sure , made them all very grave again .
Theseus stood among the sailors , gazing eagerly towards the land ; although , as yet , it seemed hardly more substantial than the clouds , amidst which the mountains were looming up .
Once or twice , he fancied that he saw a glare of some bright object , a long way off , flinging a gleam across the waves .
`` Did you see that flash of light ? ''
he inquired of the master of the vessel .
`` No , prince ; but I have seen it before , '' answered the master .
`` It came from Talus , I suppose . ''
As the breeze came fresher just then , the master was busy with trimming his sails , and had no more time to answer questions .
But while the vessel flew faster and faster towards Crete , Theseus was astonished to behold a human figure , gigantic in size , which appeared to be striding , with a measured movement , along the margin of the island .
It stepped from cliff to cliff , and sometimes from one headland to another , while the sea foamed and thundered on the shore beneath , and dashed its jets of spray over the giant 's feet .
What was still more remarkable , whenever the sun shone on this huge figure , it flickered and glimmered ; its vast countenance , too , had a metallic lustre , and threw great flashes of splendor through the air .
The folds of its garments , moreover , instead of waving in the wind , fell heavily over its limbs , as if woven of some kind of metal .
The nigher the vessel came , the more Theseus wondered what this immense giant could be , and whether it actually had life or no .
For , though it walked , and made other lifelike motions , there yet was a kind of jerk in its gait , which , together with its brazen aspect , caused the young prince to suspect that it was no true giant , but only a wonderful piece of machinery .
The figure looked all the more terrible because it carried an enormous brass club on its shoulder .
`` What is this wonder ? ''
Theseus asked of the master of the vessel , who was now at leisure to answer him .
`` It is Talus , the Man of Brass , '' said the master .
`` And is he a live giant , or a brazen image ? ''
asked Theseus .
`` That , truly , '' replied the master , `` is the point which has always perplexed me .
Some say , indeed , that this Talus was hammered out for King Minos by Vulcan himself , the skilfullest of all workers in metal .
But who ever saw a brazen image that had sense enough to walk round an island three times a day , as this giant walks round the island of Crete , challenging every vessel that comes nigh the shore ?
And , on the other hand , what living thing , unless his sinews were made of brass , would not be weary of marching eighteen hundred miles in the twenty-four hours , as Talus does , without ever sitting down to rest ?
He is a puzzler , take him how you will . ''
Still the vessel went bounding onward ; and now Theseus could hear the brazen clangor of the giant 's footsteps , as he trod heavily upon the sea-beaten rocks , some of which were seen to crack and crumble into the foaming waves beneath his weight .
As they approached the entrance of the port , the giant straddled clear across it , with a foot firmly planted on each headland , and uplifting his club to such a height that its butt-end was hidden in the cloud , he stood in that formidable posture , with the sun gleaming all over his metallic surface .
There seemed nothing else to be expected but that , the next moment , he would fetch his great club down , slam bang , and smash the vessel into a thousand pieces , without heeding how many innocent people he might destroy ; for there is seldom any mercy in a giant , you know , and quite as little in a piece of brass clockwork .
But just when Theseus and his companions thought the blow was coming , the brazen lips unclosed themselves , and the figure spoke .
`` Whence come you , strangers ? ''
And when the ringing voice ceased , there was just such a reverberation as you may have heard within a great church bell , for a moment or two after the stroke of the hammer .
`` From Athens ! ''
shouted the master in reply .
`` On what errand ? ''
thundered the Man of Brass .
And he whirled his club aloft more threateningly than ever , as if he were about to smite them with a thunderstroke right amidships , because Athens , so little while ago , had been at war with Crete .
`` We bring the seven youths and the seven maidens , '' answered the master , `` to be devoured by the Minotaur ! ''
`` Pass ! ''
cried the brazen giant .
That one loud word rolled all about the sky , while again there was a booming reverberation within the figure 's breast .
The vessel glided between the headlands of the port , and the giant resumed his march .
In a few moments , this wondrous sentinel was far away , flashing in the distant sunshine , and revolving with immense strides round the island of Crete , as it was his never-ceasing task to do .
No sooner had they entered the harbor than a party of the guards of King Minos came down to the water side , and took charge of the fourteen young men and damsels .
Surrounded by these armed warriors , Prince Theseus and his companions were led to the king 's palace , and ushered into his presence .
Now , Minos was a stern and pitiless king .
If the figure that guarded Crete was made of brass , then the monarch , who ruled over it , might be thought to have a still harder metal in his breast , and might have been called a man of iron .
He bent his shaggy brows upon the poor Athenian victims .
Any other mortal , beholding their fresh and tender beauty , and their innocent looks , would have felt himself sitting on thorns until he had made every soul of them happy by bidding them go free as the summer wind .
But this immitigable Minos cared only to examine whether they were plump enough to satisfy the Minotaur 's appetite .
For my part , I wish he himself had been the only victim ; and the monster would have found him a pretty tough one .
One after another , King Minos called these pale , frightened youths and sobbing maidens to his footstool , gave them each a poke in the ribs with his sceptre -LRB- to try whether they were in good flesh or no -RRB- , and dismissed them with a nod to his guards .
But when his eyes rested on Theseus , the king looked at him more attentively , because his face was calm and brave .
`` Young man , '' asked he , with his stern voice , `` are you not appalled at the certainty of being devoured by this terrible Minotaur ? ''
`` I have offered my life in a good cause , '' answered Theseus , `` and therefore I give it freely and gladly .
But thou , King Minos , art thou not thyself appalled , who , year after year , hast perpetrated this dreadful wrong , by giving seven innocent youths and as many maidens to be devoured by a monster ?
Dost thou not tremble , wicked king , to turn shine eyes inward on shine own heart ?
Sitting there on thy golden throne , and in thy robes of majesty , I tell thee to thy face , King Minos , thou art a more hideous monster than the Minotaur himself ! ''
`` Aha !
do you think me so ? ''
cried the king , laughing in his cruel way .
`` To-morrow , at breakfast time , you shall have an opportunity of judging which is the greater monster , the Minotaur or the king !
Take them away , guards ; and let this free-spoken youth be the Minotaur 's first morsel . ''
Near the king 's throne -LRB- though I had no time to tell you so before -RRB- stood his daughter Ariadne .
She was a beautiful and tender-hearted maiden , and looked at these poor doomed captives with very different feelings from those of the iron-breasted King Minos .
She really wept indeed , at the idea of how much human happiness would be needlessly thrown away , by giving so many young people , in the first bloom and rose blossom of their lives , to be eaten up by a creature who , no doubt , would have preferred a fat ox , or even a large pig , to the plumpest of them .
And when she beheld the brave , spirited figure of Prince Theseus bearing himself so calmly in his terrible peril , she grew a hundred times more pitiful than before .
As the guards were taking him away , she flung herself at the king 's feet , and besought him to set all the captives free , and especially this one young man .
`` Peace , foolish girl ! ''
answered King Minos .
`` What hast thou to do with an affair like this ?
It is a matter of state policy , and therefore quite beyond thy weak comprehension .
Go water thy flowers , and think no more of these Athenian caitiffs , whom the Minotaur shall as certainly eat up for breakfast as I will eat a partridge for my supper . ''
So saying , the king looked cruel enough to devour Theseus and all the rest of the captives himself , had there been no Minotaur to save him the trouble .
As he would hear not another word in their favor , the prisoners were now led away , and clapped into a dungeon , where the jailer advised them to go to sleep as soon as possible , because the Minotaur was in the habit of calling for breakfast early .
The seven maidens and six of the young men soon sobbed themselves to slumber .
But Theseus was not like them .
He felt conscious that he was wiser , and braver , and stronger than his companions , and that therefore he had the responsibility of all their lives upon him , and must consider whether there was no way to save them , even in this last extremity .
So he kept himself awake , and paced to and fro across the gloomy dungeon in which they were shut up .
Just before midnight , the door was softly unbarred , and the gentle Ariadne showed herself , with a torch in her hand .
`` Are you awake , Prince Theseus ? ''
she whispered .
`` Yes , '' answered Theseus .
`` With so little time to live , I do not choose to waste any of it in sleep . ''
`` Then follow me , '' said Ariadne , `` and tread softly . ''
What had become of the jailer and the guards , Theseus never knew .
But , however that might be , Ariadne opened all the doors , and led him forth from the darksome prison into the pleasant moonlight .
`` Theseus , '' said the maiden , `` you can now get on board your vessel , and sail away for Athens . ''
`` No , '' answered the young man ; `` I will never leave Crete unless I can first slay the Minotaur , and save my poor companions , and deliver Athens from this cruel tribute . ''
`` I knew that this would be your resolution , '' said Ariadne .
`` Come , then , with me , brave Theseus .
Here is your own sword , which the guards deprived you of .
You will need it ; and pray Heaven you may use it well . ''
Then she led Theseus along by the hand until they came to a dark , shadowy grove , where the moonlight wasted itself on the tops of the trees , without shedding hardly so much as a glimmering beam upon their pathway .
After going a good way through this obscurity , they reached a high marble wall , which was overgrown with creeping plants , that made it shaggy with their verdure .
The wall seemed to have no door , nor any windows , but rose up , lofty , and massive , and mysterious , and was neither to be clambered over , nor , as far as Theseus could perceive , to be passed through .
Nevertheless , Ariadne did but press one of her soft little fingers against a particular block of marble and , though it looked as solid as any other part of the wall , it yielded to her touch , disclosing an entrance just wide enough to admit them They crept through , and the marble stone swung back into its place .
`` We are now , '' said Ariadne , `` in the famous labyrinth which Daedalus built before he made himself a pair of wings , and flew away from our island like a bird .
That Daedalus was a very cunning workman ; but of all his artful contrivances , this labyrinth is the most wondrous .
Were we to take but a few steps from the doorway , we might wander about all our lifetime , and never find it again .
Yet in the very center of this labyrinth is the Minotaur ; and , Theseus , you must go thither to seek him . ''
`` But how shall I ever find him , '' asked Theseus , `` if the labyrinth so bewilders me as you say it will ? ''
Just as he spoke , they heard a rough and very disagreeable roar , which greatly resembled the lowing of a fierce bull , but yet had some sort of sound like the human voice .
Theseus even fancied a rude articulation in it , as if the creature that uttered it were trying to shape his hoarse breath into words .
It was at some distance , however , and he really could not tell whether it sounded most like a bull 's roar or a man 's harsh voice .
`` That is the Minotaur 's noise , '' whispered Ariadne , closely grasping the hand of Theseus , and pressing one of her own hands to her heart , which was all in a tremble .
`` You must follow that sound through the windings of the labyrinth , and , by and by , you will find him .
Stay !
take the end of this silken string ; I will hold the other end ; and then , if you win the victory , it will lead you again to this spot .
Farewell , brave Theseus . ''
So the young man took the end of the silken string in his left hand , and his gold-hilted sword , ready drawn from its scabbard , in the other , and trod boldly into the inscrutable labyrinth .
How this labyrinth was built is more than I can tell you .
But so cunningly contrived a mizmaze was never seen in the world , before nor since .
There can be nothing else so intricate , unless it were the brain of a man like Daedalus , who planned it , or the heart of any ordinary man ; which last , to be sure , is ten times as great a mystery as the labyrinth of Crete .
Theseus had not taken five steps before he lost sight of Ariadne ; and in five more his head was growing dizzy .
But still he went on , now creeping through a low arch , now ascending a flight of steps , now in one crooked passage and now in another , with here a door opening before him , and there one banging behind , until it really seemed as if the walls spun round , and whirled him round along with them .
And all the while , through these hollow avenues , now nearer , now farther off again , resounded the cry of the Minotaur ; and the sound was so fierce , so cruel , so ugly , so like a bull 's roar , and withal so like a human voice , and yet like neither of them , that the brave heart of Theseus grew sterner and angrier at every step ; for he felt it an insult to the moon and sky , and to our affectionate and simple Mother Earth , that such a monster should have the audacity to exist .
As he passed onward , the clouds gathered over the moon , and the labyrinth grew so dusky that Theseus could no longer discern the bewilderment through which he was passing .
He would have left quite lost , and utterly hopeless of ever again walking in a straight path , if , every little while , he had not been conscious of a gentle twitch at the silken cord .
Then he knew that the tender-hearted Ariadne was still holding the other end , and that she was fearing for him , and hoping for him , and giving him just as much of her sympathy as if she were close by his side .
O , indeed , I can assure you , there was a vast deal of human sympathy running along that slender thread of silk .
But still he followed the dreadful roar of the Minotaur , which now grew louder and louder , and finally so very loud that Theseus fully expected to come close upon him , at every new zizgag and wriggle of the path .
And at last , in an open space , at the very center of the labyrinth , he did discern the hideous creature .
Sure enough , what an ugly monster it was !
Only his horned head belonged to a bull ; and yet , somehow or other , he looked like a bull all over , preposterously waddling on his hind legs ; or , if you happened to view him in another way , he seemed wholly a man , and all the more monstrous for being so .
And there he was , the wretched thing , with no society , no companion , no kind of a mate , living only to do mischief , and incapable of knowing what affection means .
Theseus hated him , and shuddered at him , and yet could not but be sensible of some sort of pity ; and all the more , the uglier and more detestable the creature was .
For he kept striding to and fro , in a solitary frenzy of rage , continually emitting a hoarse roar , which was oddly mixed up with half-shaped words ; and , after listening a while , Theseus understood that the Minotaur was saying to himself how miserable he was , and how hungry , and how he hated everybody , and how he longed to eat up the human race alive .
Ah !
the bull-headed villain !
And O , my good little people , you will perhaps see , one of these days , as I do now , that every human being who suffers any thing evil to get into his nature , or to remain there , is a kind of Minotaur , an enemy of his fellow-creatures , and separated from all good companionship , as this poor monster was .
Was Theseus afraid ?
By no means , my dear auditors .
What !
a hero like Theseus afraid , Not had the Minotaur had twenty bull-heads instead of one .
Bold as he was , however , I rather fancy that it strengthened his valiant heart , just at this crisis , to feel a tremulous twitch at the silken cord , which he was still holding in his left hand .
It was as if Ariadne were giving him all her might and courage ; and much as he already had , and little as she had to give , it made his own seem twice as much .
And to confess the honest truth , he needed the whole ; for now the Minotaur , turning suddenly about , caught sight of Theseus , and instantly lowered his horribly sharp horns , exactly as a mad bull does when he means to rush against an enemy .
At the same time , he belched forth a tremendous roar , in which there was something like the words of human language , but all disjointed and shaken to pieces by passing through the gullet of a miserably enraged brute .
Theseus could only guess what the creature intended to say , and that rather by his gestures than his words ; for the Minotaur 's horns were sharper than his wits , and of a great deal more service to him than his tongue .
But probably this was the sense of what he uttered : `` Ah , wretch of a human being !
I 'll stick my horns through you , and toss you fifty feet high , and eat you up the moment you come down . ''
`` Come on , then , and try it ! ''
was all that Theseus deigned to reply ; for he was far too magnanimous to assault his enemy with insolent language .
Without more words on either side , there ensued the most awful fight between Theseus and the Minotaur that ever happened beneath the sun or moon .
I really know not how it might have turned out , if the monster , in his first headlong rush against Theseus , had not missed him , by a hair 's breadth , and broken one of his horns short off against the stone wall .
On this mishap , he bellowed so intolerably that a part of the labyrinth tumbled down , and all the inhabitants of Crete mistook the noise for an uncommonly heavy thunder storm .
Smarting with the pain , he galloped around the open space in so ridiculous a way that Theseus laughed at it , long afterwards , though not precisely at the moment .
After this , the two antagonists stood valiantly up to one another , and fought , sword to horn , for a long while .
At last , the Minotaur made a run at Theseus , grazed his left side with his horn , and flung him down ; and thinking that he had stabbed him to the heart , he cut a great caper in the air , opened his bull mouth from ear to ear , and prepared to snap his head off .
But Theseus by this time had leaped up , and caught the monster off his guard .
Fetching a sword stroke at him with all his force , he hit him fair upon the neck , and made his bull head skip six yards from his human body , which fell down flat upon the ground .
So now the battle was ended .
Immediately the moon shone out as brightly as if all the troubles of the world , and all the wickedness and the ugliness that infest human life , were past and gone forever .
And Theseus , as he leaned on his sword , taking breath , felt another twitch of the silken cord ; for all through the terrible encounter , he had held it fast in his left hand .
Eager to let Ariadne know of his success , he followed the guidance of the thread , and soon found himself at the entrance of the labyrinth .
`` Thou hast slain the monster , '' cried Ariadne , clasping her hands .
`` Thanks to thee , dear Ariadne , '' answered Theseus , `` I return victorious . ''
`` Then , '' said Ariadne , `` we must quickly summon thy friends , and get them and thyself on board the vessel before dawn .
If morning finds thee here , my father will avenge the Minotaur . ''
To make my story short , the poor captives were awakened , and , hardly knowing whether it was not a joyful dream , were told of what Theseus had done , and that they must set sail for Athens before daybreak .
Hastening down to the vessel , they all clambered on board , except Prince Theseus , who lingered behind them on the strand , holding Ariadne 's hand clasped in his own .
`` Dear maiden , '' said he , `` thou wilt surely go with us .
Thou art too gentle and sweet a child for such an iron-hearted father as King Minos .
He cares no more for thee than a granite rock cares for the little flower that grows in one of its crevices .
But my father , King Aegeus , and my dear mother , Aethra , and all the fathers and mothers in Athens , and all the sons and daughters too , will love and honor thee as their benefactress .
Come with us , then ; for King Minos will be very angry when he knows what thou hast done . ''
Now , some low-minded people , who pretend to tell the story of Theseus and Ariadne , have the face to say that this royal and honorable maiden did really flee away , under cover of the night , with the young stranger whose life she had preserved .
They say , too , that Prince Theseus -LRB- who would have died sooner than wrong the meanest creature in the world -RRB- ungratefully deserted Ariadne , on a solitary island , where the vessel touched on its voyage to Athens .
But , had the noble Theseus heard these falsehoods , he would have served their slanderous authors as he served the Minotaur !
Here is what Ariadne answered , when the brave prince of Athens besought her to accompany him : `` No , Theseus , '' the maiden said , pressing his hand , and then drawing back a step or two , `` I can not go with you .
My father is old , and has nobody but myself to love him .
Hard as you think his heart is , it would break to lose me .
At first , King Minos will be angry ; but he will soon forgive his only child ; and , by and by , he will rejoice , I know , that no more youths and maidens must come from Athens to be devoured by the Minotaur .
I have saved you , Theseus , as much for my father 's sake as for your own .
Farewell !
Heaven bless you ! ''
All this was so true , and so maiden-like , and was spoken with so sweet a dignity , that Theseus would have blushed to urge her any longer .
Nothing remained for him , therefore , but to bid Ariadne an affectionate farewell , and to go on board the vessel , and set sail .
In a few moments the white foam was boiling up before their prow , as Prince Theseus and his companions sailed out of the harbor , with a whistling breeze behind them .
Talus , the brazen giant , on his never-ceasing sentinel 's march , happened to be approaching that part of the coast ; and they saw him , by the glimmering of the moonbeams on his polished surface , while he was yet a great way off .
As the figure moved like clockwork , however , and could neither hasten his enormous strides nor retard them , he arrived at the port when they were just beyond the reach of his club .
Nevertheless , straddling from headland to headland , as his custom was , Talus attempted to strike a blow at the vessel , and , overreaching himself , tumbled at full length into the sea , which splashed high over his gigantic shape , as when an iceberg turns a somerset .
There he lies yet ; and whoever desires to enrich himself by means of brass had better go thither with a diving bell , and fish up Talus .
On the homeward voyage , the fourteen youths and damsels were in excellent spirits , as you will easily suppose .
They spent most of their time in dancing , unless when the sidelong breeze made the deck slope too much .
In due season , they came within sight of the coast of Attica , which was their native country .
But here , I am grieved to tell you , happened a sad misfortune .
You will remember -LRB- what Theseus unfortunately forgot -RRB- that his father , King Aegeus , had enjoined it upon him to hoist sunshiny sails , instead of black ones , in case he should overcome the Minotaur , and return victorious .
In the joy of their success , however , and amidst the sports , dancing , and other merriment , with which these young folks wore away the time , they never once thought whether their sails were black , white , or rainbow colored , and , indeed , left it entirely to the mariners whether they had any sails at all .
Thus the vessel returned , like a raven , with the same sable wings that had wafted her away .
But poor King Aegeus , day after day , infirm as he was , had clambered to the summit of a cliff that overhung the sea , and there sat watching for Prince Theseus , homeward bound ; and no sooner did he behold the fatal blackness of the sails , than he concluded that his dear son , whom he loved so much , and felt so proud of , had been eaten by the Minotaur .
He could not bear the thought of living any longer ; so , first flinging his crown and sceptre into the sea -LRB- useless baubles that they were to him now -RRB- , King Aegeus merely stooped forward , and fell headlong over the cliff , and was drowned , poor soul , in the waves that foamed at its base !
This was melancholy news for Prince Theseus , who , when he stepped ashore , found himself king of all the country , whether he would or no ; and such a turn of fortune was enough to make any young man feel very much out of spirits .
However , he sent for his dear mother to Athens , and , by taking her advice in matters of state , became a very excellent monarch , and was greatly beloved by his people .
THE PYGMIES .
A great while ago , when the world was full of wonders , there lived an earth-born Giant , named Antaeus , and a million or more of curious little earth-born people , who were called Pygmies .
This Giant and these Pygmies being children of the same mother -LRB- that is to say , our good old Grandmother Earth -RRB- , were all brethren , and dwelt together in a very friendly and affectionate manner , far , far off , in the middle of hot Africa .
The Pygmies were so small , and there were so many sandy deserts and such high mountains between them and the rest of mankind , that nobody could get a peep at them oftener than once in a hundred years .
As for the Giant , being of a very lofty stature , it was easy enough to see him , but safest to keep out of his sight .
Among the Pygmies , I suppose , if one of them grew to the height of six or eight inches , he was reckoned a prodigiously tall man .
It must have been very pretty to behold their little cities , with streets two or three feet wide , paved with the smallest pebbles , and bordered by habitations about as big as a squirrel 's cage .
The king 's palace attained to the stupendous magnitude of Periwinkle 's baby house , and stood in the center of a spacious square , which could hardly have been covered by our hearth-rug .
Their principal temple , or cathedral , was as lofty as yonder bureau , and was looked upon as a wonderfully sublime and magnificent edifice .
All these structures were built neither of stone nor wood .
They were neatly plastered together by the Pygmy workmen , pretty much like birds ' nests , out of straw , feathers , egg shells , and other small bits of stuff , with stiff clay instead of mortar ; and when the hot sun had dried them , they were just as snug and comfortable as a Pygmy could desire .
The country round about was conveniently laid out in fields , the largest of which was nearly of the same extent as one of Sweet Fern 's flower beds .
Here the Pygmies used to plant wheat and other kinds of grain , which , when it grew up and ripened , overshadowed these tiny people as the pines , and the oaks , and the walnut and chestnut trees overshadow you and me , when we walk in our own tracts of woodland .
At harvest time , they were forced to go with their little axes and cut down the grain , exactly as a woodcutter makes a clearing in the forest ; and when a stalk of wheat , with its overburdened top , chanced to come crashing down upon an unfortunate Pygmy , it was apt to be a very sad affair .
If it did not smash him all to pieces , at least , I am sure , it must have made the poor little fellow 's head ache .
And O , my stars !
if the fathers and mothers were so small , what must the children and babies have been ?
A whole family of them might have been put to bed in a shoe , or have crept into an old glove , and played at hide-and-seek in its thumb and fingers .
You might have hidden a year-old baby under a thimble .
Now these funny Pygmies , as I told you before , had a Giant for their neighbor and brother , who was bigger , if possible , than they were little .
He was so very tall that he carried a pine tree , which was eight feet through the butt , for a walking stick .
It took a far-sighted Pygmy , I can assure you , to discern his summit without the help of a telescope ; and sometimes , in misty weather , they could not see his upper half , but only his long legs , which seemed to be striding about by themselves .
But at noonday in a clear atmosphere , when the sun shone brightly over him , the Giant Antaeus presented a very grand spectacle .
There he used to stand , a perfect mountain of a man , with his great countenance smiling down upon his little brothers , and his one vast eye -LRB- which was as big as a cart wheel , and placed right in the center of his forehead -RRB- giving a friendly wink to the whole nation at once .
The Pygmies loved to talk with Antaeus ; and fifty times a day , one or another of them would turn up his head , and shout through the hollow of his fists , `` Halloo , brother Antaeus !
How are you , my good fellow ? ''
And when the small distant squeak of their voices reached his ear , the Giant would make answer , `` Pretty well , brother Pygmy , I thank you , '' in a thunderous roar that would have shaken down the walls of their strongest temple , only that it came from so far aloft .
It was a happy circumstance that Antaeus was the Pygmy people 's friend ; for there was more strength in his little finger than in ten million of such bodies as this .
If he had been as ill-natured to them as he was to everybody else , he might have beaten down their biggest city at one kick , and hardly have known that he did it .
With the tornado of his breath , he could have stripped the roofs from a hundred dwellings and sent thousands of the inhabitants whirling through the air .
He might have set his immense foot upon a multitude ; and when he took it up again , there would have been a pitiful sight , to be sure .
But , being the son of Mother Earth , as they likewise were , the Giant gave them his brotherly kindness , and loved them with as big a love as it was possible to feel for creatures so very small .
And , on their parts , the Pygmies loved Antaeus with as much affection as their tiny hearts could hold .
He was always ready to do them any good offices that lay in his power ; as for example , when they wanted a breeze to turn their windmills , the Giant would set all the sails a-going with the mere natural respiration of his lungs .
When the sun was too hot , he often sat himself down , and let his shadow fall over the kingdom , from one frontier to the other ; and as for matters in general , he was wise enough to let them alone , and leave the Pygmies to manage their own affairs -- which , after all , is about the best thing that great people can do for little ones .
In short , as I said before , Antaeus loved the Pygmies , and the Pygmies loved Antaeus .
The Giant 's life being as long as his body was large , while the lifetime of a Pygmy was but a span , this friendly intercourse had been going on for innumerable generations and ages .
It was written about in the Pygmy histories , and talked about in their ancient traditions .
The most venerable and white-bearded Pygmy had never heard of a time , even in his greatest of grandfathers ' days , when the Giant was not their enormous friend .
Once , to be sure -LRB- as was recorded on an obelisk , three feet high , erected on the place of the catastrophe -RRB- , Antaeus sat down upon about five thousand Pygmies , who were assembled at a military review .
But this was one of those unlucky accidents for which nobody is to blame ; so that the small folks never took it to heart , and only requested the Giant to be careful forever afterwards to examine the acre of ground where he intended to squat himself .
It is a very pleasant picture to imagine Antaeus standing among the Pygmies , like the spire of the tallest cathedral that ever was built , while they ran about like pismires at his feet ; and to think that , in spite of their difference in size , there were affection and sympathy between them and him !
Indeed , it has always seemed to me that the Giant needed the little people more than the Pygmies needed the Giant .
For , unless they had been his neighbors and well wishers , and , as we may say , his playfellows , Antaeus would not have had a single friend in the world .
No other being like himself had ever been created .
No creature of his own size had ever talked with him , in thunder-like accents , face to face .
When he stood with his head among the clouds , he was quite alone , and had been so for hundreds of years , and would be so forever .
Even if he had met another Giant , Antaeus would have fancied the world not big enough for two such vast personages , and , instead of being friends with him , would have fought him till one of the two was killed .
But with the Pygmies he was the most sportive and humorous , and merry-hearted , and sweet-tempered old Giant that ever washed his face in a wet cloud .
His little friends , like all other small people , had a great opinion of their own importance , and used to assume quite a patronizing air towards the Giant .
`` Poor creature ! ''
they said one to another .
`` He has a very dull time of it , all by himself ; and we ought not to grudge wasting a little of our precious time to amuse him .
He is not half so bright as we are , to be sure ; and , for that reason , he needs us to look after his comfort and happiness .
Let us be kind to the old fellow .
Why , if Mother Earth had not been very kind to ourselves , we might all have been Giants too . ''
On all their holidays , the Pygmies had excellent sport with Antaeus .
He often stretched himself out at full length on the ground , where he looked like the long ridge of a hill ; and it was a good hour 's walk , no doubt , for a short-legged Pygmy to journey from head to foot of the Giant .
He would lay down his great hand flat on the grass , and challenge the tallest of them to clamber upon it , and straddle from finger to finger .
So fearless were they , that they made nothing of creeping in among the folds of his garments .
When his head lay sidewise on the earth , they would march boldly up , and peep into the great cavern of his mouth , and take it all as a joke -LRB- as indeed it was meant -RRB- when Antaeus gave a sudden snap of his jaws , as if he were going to swallow fifty of them at once .
You would have laughed to see the children dodging in and out among his hair , or swinging from his beard .
It is impossible to tell half of the funny tricks that they played with their huge comrade ; but I do not know that anything was more curious than when a party of boys were seen running races on his forehead , to try which of them could get first round the circle of his one great eye .
It was another favorite feat with them to march along the bridge of his nose , and jump down upon his upper lip .
If the truth must be told , they were sometimes as troublesome to the Giant as a swarm of ants or mosquitoes , especially as they had a fondness for mischief , and liked to prick his skin with their little swords and lances , to see how thick and tough it was .
But Antaeus took it all kindly enough ; although , once in a while , when he happened to be sleepy , he would grumble out a peevish word or two , like the muttering of a tempest , and ask them to have done with their nonsense .
A great deal oftener , however , he watched their merriment and gambols until his huge , heavy , clumsy wits were completely stirred up by them ; and then would he roar out such a tremendous volume of immeasurable laughter , that the whole nation of Pygmies had to put their hands to their ears , else it would certainly have deafened them .
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
quoth the Giant , shaking his mountainous sides .
`` What a funny thing it is to be little !
If I were not Antaeus , I should like to be a Pygmy , just for the joke 's sake . ''
The Pygmies had but one thing to trouble them in the world .
They were constantly at war with the cranes , and had always been so , ever since the long-lived Giant could remember .
From time to time , very terrible battles had been fought in which sometimes the little men won the victory , and sometimes the cranes .
According to some historians , the Pygmies used to go to the battle , mounted on the backs of goats and rams ; but such animals as these must have been far too big for Pygmies to ride upon ; so that , I rather suppose , they rode on squirrel-back , or rabbit-back , or rat-back , or perhaps got upon hedgehogs , whose prickly quills would be very terrible to the enemy .
However this might be , and whatever creatures the Pygmies rode upon , I do not doubt that they made a formidable appearance , armed with sword and spear , and bow and arrow , blowing their tiny trumpet , and shouting their little war cry .
They never failed to exhort one another to fight bravely , and recollect that the world had its eyes upon them ; although , in simple truth , the only spectator was the Giant Antaeus , with his one , great , stupid eye in the middle of his forehead .
When the two armies joined battle , the cranes would rush forward , flapping their wings and stretching out their necks , and would perhaps snatch up some of the Pygmies crosswise in their beaks .
Whenever this happened , it was truly an awful spectacle to see those little men of might kicking and sprawling in the air , and at last disappearing down the crane 's long , crooked throat , swallowed up alive .
A hero , you know , must hold himself in readiness for any kind of fate ; and doubtless the glory of the thing was a consolation to him , even in the crane 's gizzard .
If Antaeus observed that the battle was going hard against his little allies , he generally stopped laughing , and ran with mile-long strides to their assistance , flourishing his club aloft and shouting at the cranes , who quacked and croaked , and retreated as fast as they could .
Then the Pygmy army would march homeward in triumph , attributing the victory entirely to their own valor , and to the warlike skill and strategy of whomsoever happened to be captain general ; and for a tedious while afterwards , nothing would be heard of but grand processions , and public banquets , and brilliant illuminations , and shows of wax-work , with likenesses of the distinguished officers , as small as life .
In the above-described warfare , if a Pygmy chanced to pluck out a crane 's tail feather , it proved a very great feather in his cap .
Once or twice , if you will believe me , a little man was made chief ruler of the nation for no other merit in the world than bringing home such a feather .
But I have now said enough to let you see what a gallant little people these were , and how happily they and their forefathers , for nobody knows how many generations , had lived with the immeasurable Giant Antaeus .
In the remaining part of the story , I shall tell you of a far more astonishing battle than any that was fought between the Pygmies and the cranes .
One day the mighty Antaeus was lolling at full length among his little friends .
His pine-tree walking stick lay on the ground , close by his side .
His head was in one part of the kingdom , and his feet extended across the boundaries of another part ; and he was taking whatever comfort he could get , while the Pygmies scrambled over him , and peeped into his cavernous mouth , and played among his hair .
Sometimes , for a minute or two , the Giant dropped asleep , and snored like the rush of a whirlwind .
During one of these little bits of slumber , a Pygmy chanced to climb upon his shoulder , and took a view around the horizon , as from the summit of a hill ; and he beheld something , a long way off , which made him rub the bright specks of his eyes , and look sharper than before .
At first he mistook it for a mountain , and wondered how it had grown up so suddenly out of the earth .
But soon he saw the mountain move .
As it came nearer and nearer , what should it turn out to be but a human shape , not so big as Antaeus , it is true , although a very enormous figure , in comparison with Pygmies , and a vast deal bigger than the men we see nowadays .
When the Pygmy was quite satisfied that his eyes had not deceived him , he scampered , as fast as his legs would carry him , to the Giant 's ear , and stooping over its cavity , shouted lustily into it : `` Halloo , brother Antaeus !
Get up this minute , and take your pine-tree walking stick in your hand .
Here comes another Giant to have a tussle with you . ''
`` Poh , poh ! ''
grumbled Antaeus , only half awake .
`` None of your nonsense , my little fellow !
Do n't you see I 'm sleepy ?
There is not a Giant on earth for whom I would take the trouble to get up . ''
But the Pygmy looked again , and now perceived that the stranger was coming directly towards the prostrate form of Antaeus .
With every step , he looked less like a blue mountain , and more like an immensely large man .
He was soon so nigh , that there could be no possible mistake about the matter .
There he was , with the sun flaming on his golden helmet , and flashing from his polished breastplate ; he had a sword by his side , and a lion 's skin over his back , and on his right shoulder he carried a club , which looked bulkier and heavier than the pine-tree walking stick of Antaeus .
By this time , the whole nation of the Pygmies had seen the new wonder , and a million of them set up a shout all together ; so that it really made quite an audible squeak .
`` Get up , Antaeus !
Bestir yourself , you lazy old Giant !
Here comes another Giant , as strong as you are , to fight with you . ''
`` Nonsense , nonsense ! ''
growled the sleepy Giant .
`` I 'll have my nap out , come who may . ''
Still the stranger drew nearer ; and now the Pygmies could plainly discern that , if his stature were less lofty than the Giant 's , yet his shoulders were even broader .
And , in truth , what a pair of shoulders they must have been !
As I told you , a long while ago , they once upheld the sky .
The Pygmies , being ten times as vivacious as their great numskull of a brother , could not abide the Giant 's slow movements , and were determined to have him on his feet .
So they kept shouting to him , and even went so far as to prick him with their swords .
`` Get up , get up , get up , '' they cried .
`` Up with you , lazy bones !
The strange Giant 's club is bigger than your own , his shoulders are the broadest , and we think him the stronger of the two . ''
Antaeus could not endure to have it said that any mortal was half so mighty as himself .
This latter remark of the Pygmies pricked him deeper than their swords ; and , sitting up , in rather a sulky humor , he gave a gape of several yards wide , rubbed his eyes , and finally turned his stupid head in the direction whither his little friends were eagerly pointing .
No sooner did he set eyes on the stranger , than , leaping on his feet , and seizing his walking stick , he strode a mile or two to meet him ; all the while brandishing the sturdy pine tree , so that it whistled through the air .
`` Who are you ? ''
thundered the Giant .
`` And what do you want in my dominions ? ''
There was one strange thing about Antaeus , of which I have not yet told you , lest , hearing of so many wonders all in a lump , you might not believe much more than half of them .
You are to know , then , that whenever this redoubtable Giant touched the ground , either with his hand , his foot , or any other part of his body , he grew stronger than ever he had been before .
The Earth , you remember , was his mother , and was very fond of him , as being almost the biggest of her children ; and so she took this method of keeping him always in full vigor .
Some persons affirm that he grew ten times stronger at every touch ; others say that it was only twice as strong .
But only think of it !
Whenever Antaeus took a walk , supposing it were but ten miles , and that he stepped a hundred yards at a stride , you may try to cipher out how much mightier he was , on sitting down again , than when he first started .
And whenever he flung himself on the earth to take a little repose , even if he got up the very next instant , he would be as strong as exactly ten just such giants as his former self .
It was well for the world that Antaeus happened to be of a sluggish disposition and liked ease better than exercise ; for , if he had frisked about like the Pygmies , and touched the earth as often as they did , he would long ago have been strong enough to pull down the sky about people 's ears .
But these great lubberly fellows resemble mountains , not only in bulk , but in their disinclination to move .
Any other mortal man , except the very one whom Antaeus had now encountered , would have been half frightened to death by the Giant 's ferocious aspect and terrible voice .
But the stranger did not seem at all disturbed .
He carelessly lifted his club , and balanced it in his hand , measuring Antaeus with his eye , from head to foot , not as if wonder-smitten at his stature , but as if he had seen a great many Giants before , and this was by no means the biggest of them .
In fact , if the Giant had been no bigger than the Pygmies -LRB- who stood pricking up their ears , and looking and listening to what was going forward -RRB- , the stranger could not have been less afraid of him .
`` Who are you , I say ? ''
roared Antaeus again .
`` What 's your name ?
Why do you come hither ?
Speak , you vagabond , or I 'll try the thickness of your skull with my walking-stick ! ''
`` You are a very discourteous Giant , '' answered the stranger quietly , `` and I shall probably have to teach you a little civility , before we part .
As for my name , it is Hercules .
I have come hither because this is my most convenient road to the garden of the Hesperides , whither I am going to get three of the golden apples for King Eurystheus . ''
`` Caitiff , you shall go no farther ! ''
bellowed Antaeus , putting on a grimmer look than before ; for he had heard of the mighty Hercules , and hated him because he was said to be so strong .
`` Neither shall you go back whence you came ! ''
`` How will you prevent me , '' asked Hercules , `` from going whither I please ? ''
`` By hitting you a rap with this pine tree here , '' shouted Antaeus , scowling so that he made himself the ugliest monster in Africa .
`` I am fifty times stronger than you ; and now that I stamp my foot upon the ground , I am five hundred times stronger !
I am ashamed to kill such a puny little dwarf as you seem to be .
I will make a slave of you , and you shall likewise be the slave of my brethren here , the Pygmies .
So throw down your club and your other weapons ; and as for that lion 's skin , I intend to have a pair of gloves made of it . ''
`` Come and take it off my shoulders , then , '' answered Hercules , lifting his club .
Then the Giant , grinning with rage , strode tower-like towards the stranger -LRB- ten times strengthened at every step -RRB- , and fetched a monstrous blow at him with his pine tree , which Hercules caught upon his club ; and being more skilful than Antaeus , he paid him back such a rap upon the sconce , that down tumbled the great lumbering man-mountain , flat upon the ground .
The poor little Pygmies -LRB- who really never dreamed that anybody in the world was half so strong as their brother Antaeus -RRB- were a good deal dismayed at this .
But no sooner was the Giant down , than up he bounced again , with tenfold might , and such a furious visage as was horrible to behold .
He aimed another blow at Hercules , but struck awry , being blinded with wrath , and only hit his poor innocent Mother Earth , who groaned and trembled at the stroke .
His pine tree went so deep into the ground , and stuck there so fast , that , before Antaeus could get it out , Hercules brought down his club across his shoulders with a mighty thwack , which made the Giant roar as if all sorts of intolerable noises had come screeching and rumbling out of his immeasurable lungs in that one cry .
Away it went , over mountains and valleys , and , for aught I know , was heard on the other side of the African deserts .
As for the Pygmies , their capital city was laid in ruins by the concussion and vibration of the air ; and , though there was uproar enough without their help , they all set up a shriek out of three millions of little throats , fancying , no doubt , that they swelled the Giant 's bellow by at least ten times as much .
Meanwhile , Antaeus had scrambled upon his feet again , and pulled his pine tree out of the earth ; and , all aflame with fury , and more outrageously strong than ever , he ran at Hercules , and brought down another blow .
`` This time , rascal , '' shouted he , `` you shall not escape me . ''
But once more Hercules warded off the stroke with his club , and the Giant 's pine tree was shattered into a thousand splinters , most of which flew among the Pygmies , and did them more mischief than I like to think about .
Before Antaeus could get out of the way , Hercules let drive again , and gave him another knock-down blow , which sent him heels over head , but served only to increase his already enormous and insufferable strength .
As for his rage , there is no telling what a fiery furnace it had now got to be .
His one eye was nothing but a circle of red flame .
Having now no weapons but his fists , he doubled them up -LRB- each bigger than a hogshead -RRB- , smote one against the other , and danced up and down with absolute frenzy , flourishing his immense arms about , as if he meant not merely to kill Hercules , but to smash the whole world to pieces .
`` Come on ! ''
roared this thundering Giant .
`` Let me hit you but one box on the ear , and you 'll never have the headache again . ''
Now Hercules -LRB- though strong enough , as you already know , to hold the sky up -RRB- began to be sensible that he should never win the victory , if he kept on knocking Antaeus down ; for , by and by , if he hit him such hard blows , the Giant would inevitably , by the help of his Mother Earth , become stronger than the mighty Hercules himself .
So , throwing down his club , with which he had fought so many dreadful battles , the hero stood ready to receive his antagonist with naked arms .
`` Step forward , '' cried he .
`` Since I 've broken your pine tree , we 'll try which is the better man at a wrestling match . ''
`` Aha !
then I 'll soon satisfy you , '' shouted the Giant ; for , if there was one thing on which he prided himself more than another , it was his skill in wrestling .
`` Villain , I 'll fling you where you can never pick yourself up again . ''
On came Antaeus , hopping and capering with the scorching heat of his rage , and getting new vigor wherewith to wreak his passion , every time he hopped .
But Hercules , you must understand , was wiser than this numskull of a Giant , and had thought of a way to fight him -- huge , earth-born monster that he was -- and to conquer him too , in spite of all that his Mother Earth could do for him .
Watching his opportunity , as the mad Giant made a rush at him , Hercules caught him round the middle with both hands , lifted him high into the air , and held him aloft overhead .
Just imagine it , my dear little friends .
What a spectacle it must have been , to see this monstrous fellow sprawling in the air , face downwards , kicking out his long legs and wriggling his whole vast body , like a baby when its father holds it at arm 's length towards the ceiling .
But the most wonderful thing was , that , as soon as Antaeus was fairly off the earth , he began to lose the vigor which he had gained by touching it .
Hercules very soon perceived that his troublesome enemy was growing weaker , both because he struggled and kicked with less violence , and because the thunder of his big voice subsided into a grumble .
The truth was that unless the Giant touched Mother Earth as often as once in five minutes , not only his overgrown strength , but the very breath of his life , would depart from him .
Hercules had guessed this secret ; and it may be well for us all to remember it , in case we should ever have to fight a battle with a fellow like Antaeus .
For these earth-born creatures are only difficult to conquer on their own ground , but may easily be managed if we can contrive to lift them into a loftier and purer region .
So it proved with the poor Giant , whom I am really a little sorry for , notwithstanding his uncivil way of treating strangers who came to visit him .
When his strength and breath were quite gone , Hercules gave his huge body a toss , and flung it about a mile off , where it fell heavily , and lay with no more motion than a sand hill .
It was too late for the Giant 's Mother Earth to help him now ; and I should not wonder if his ponderous bones were lying on the same spot to this very day , and were mistaken for those of an uncommonly large elephant .
But , alas me !
What a wailing did the poor little Pygmies set up when they saw their enormous brother treated in this terrible manner !
If Hercules heard their shrieks , however , he took no notice , and perhaps fancied them only the shrill , plaintive twittering of small birds that had been frightened from their nests by the uproar of the battle between himself and Antaeus .
Indeed , his thoughts had been so much taken up with the Giant , that he had never once looked at the Pygmies , nor even knew that there was such a funny little nation in the world .
And now , as he had traveled a good way , and was also rather weary with his exertions in the fight , he spread out his lion 's skin on the ground , and , reclining himself upon it , fell fast asleep .
As soon as the Pygmies saw Hercules preparing for a nap , they nodded their little heads at one another , and winked with their little eyes .
And when his deep , regular breathing gave them notice that he was asleep , they assembled together in an immense crowd , spreading over a space of about twenty-seven feet square .
One of their most eloquent orators -LRB- and a valiant warrior enough , besides , though hardly so good at any other weapon as he was with his tongue -RRB- climbed upon a toadstool , and , from that elevated position , addressed the multitude .
His sentiments were pretty much as follows ; or , at all events , something like this was probably the upshot of his speech : `` Tall Pygmies and mighty little men !
You and all of us have seen what a public calamity has been brought to pass , and what an insult has here been offered to the majesty of our nation .
Yonder lies Antaeus , our great friend and brother , slain , within our territory , by a miscreant who took him at disadvantage , and fought him -LRB- if fighting it can be called -RRB- in a way that neither man , nor Giant , nor Pygmy ever dreamed of fighting , until this hour .
And , adding a grievous contumely to the wrong already done us , the miscreant has now fallen asleep as quietly as if nothing were to be dreaded from our wrath !
It behooves you , fellow-countrymen , to consider in what aspect we shall stand before the world , and what will be the verdict of impartial history , should we suffer these accumulated outrages to go unavenged .
`` Antaeus was our brother , born of that same beloved parent to whom we owe the thews and sinews , as well as the courageous hearts , which made him proud of our relationship .
He was our faithful ally , and fell fighting as much for our national rights and immunities as for his own personal ones .
We and our forefathers have dwelt in friendship with him , and held affectionate intercourse as man to man , through immemorial generations .
You remember how often our entire people have reposed in his great shadow , and how our little ones have played at hide-and-seek in the tangles of his hair , and how his mighty footsteps have familiarly gone to and fro among us , and never trodden upon any of our toes .
And there lies this dear brother -- this sweet and amiable friend -- this brave and faithful ally -- this virtuous Giant -- this blameless and excellent Antaeus -- dead !
Dead !
Silent !
Powerless !
A mere mountain of clay !
Forgive my tears !
Nay , I behold your own .
Were we to drown the world with them , could the world blame us ?
`` But to resume : Shall we , my countrymen , suffer this wicked stranger to depart unharmed , and triumph in his treacherous victory , among distant communities of the earth ?
Shall we not rather compel him to leave his bones here on our soil , by the side of our slain brother 's bones ?
so that , while one skeleton shall remain as the everlasting monument of our sorrow , the other shall endure as long , exhibiting to the whole human race a terrible example of Pygmy vengeance !
Such is the question .
I put it to you in full confidence of a response that shall be worthy of our national character , and calculated to increase , rather than diminish , the glory which our ancestors have transmitted to us , and which we ourselves have proudly vindicated in our warfare with the cranes . ''
The orator was here interrupted by a burst of irrepressible enthusiasm ; every individual Pygmy crying out that the national honor must be preserved at all hazards .
He bowed , and , making a gesture for silence , wound up his harangue in the following admirable manner : `` It only remains for us , then , to decide whether we shall carry on the war in our national capacity -- one united people against a common enemy -- or whether some champion , famous in former fights , shall be selected to defy the slayer of our brother Antaeus to single combat .
In the latter case , though not unconscious that there may be taller men among you , I hereby offer myself for that enviable duty .
And believe me , dear countrymen , whether I live or die , the honor of this great country , and the fame bequeathed us by our heroic progenitors , shall suffer no diminution in my hands .
Never , while I can wield this sword , of which I now fling away the scabbard -- never , never , never , even if the crimson hand that slew the great Antaeus shall lay me prostrate , like him , on the soil which I give my life to defend . ''
So saying , this valiant Pygmy drew out his weapon -LRB- which was terrible to behold , being as long as the blade of a penknife -RRB- , and sent the scabbard whirling over the heads of the multitude .
His speech was followed by an uproar of applause , as its patriotism and self-devotion unquestionably deserved ; and the shouts and clapping of hands would have been greatly prolonged , had they not been rendered quite inaudible by a deep respiration , vulgarly called a snore , from the sleeping Hercules .
It was finally decided that the whole nation of Pygmies should set to work to destroy Hercules ; not , be it understood , from any doubt that a single champion would be capable of putting him to the sword , but because he was a public enemy , and all were desirous of sharing in the glory of his defeat .
There was a debate whether the national honor did not demand that a herald should be sent with a trumpet , to stand over the ear of Hercules , and after blowing a blast right into it , to defy him to the combat by formal proclamation .
But two or three venerable and sagacious Pygmies , well versed in state affairs , gave it as their opinion that war already existed , and that it was their rightful privilege to take the enemy by surprise .
Moreover , if awakened , and allowed to get upon his feet , Hercules might happen to do them a mischief before he could be beaten down again .
For , as these sage counselors remarked , the stranger 's club was really very big , and had rattled like a thunderbolt against the skull of Antaeus .
So the Pygmies resolved to set aside all foolish punctilios , and assail their antagonist at once .
Accordingly , all the fighting men of the nation took their weapons , and went boldly up to Hercules , who still lay fast asleep , little dreaming of the harm which the Pygmies meant to do him .
A body of twenty thousand archers marched in front , with their little bows all ready , and the arrows on the string .
The same number were ordered to clamber upon Hercules , some with spades to dig his eyes out , and others with bundles of hay , and all manner of rubbish with which they intended to plug up his mouth and nostrils , so that he might perish for lack of breath .
These last , however , could by no means perform their appointed duty ; inasmuch as the enemy 's breath rushed out of his nose in an obstreperous hurricane and whirlwind , which blew the Pygmies away as fast as they came nigh .
It was found necessary , therefore , to hit upon some other method of carrying on the war .
After holding a council , the captains ordered their troops to collect sticks , straws , dry weeds , and whatever combustible stuff they could find , and make a pile of it , heaping it high around the head of Hercules .
As a great many thousand Pygmies were employed in this task , they soon brought together several bushels of inflammatory matter , and raised so tall a heap , that , mounting on its summit , they were quite upon a level with the sleeper 's face .
The archers , meanwhile , were stationed within bow shot , with orders to let fly at Hercules the instant that he stirred .
Everything being in readiness , a torch was applied to the pile , which immediately burst into flames , and soon waxed hot enough to roast the enemy , had he but chosen to lie still .
A Pygmy , you know , though so very small , might set the world on fire , just as easily as a Giant could ; so that this was certainly the very best way of dealing with their foe , provided they could have kept him quiet while the conflagration was going forward .
But no sooner did Hercules begin to be scorched , than up he started , with his hair in a red blaze .
`` What 's all this ? ''
he cried , bewildered with sleep , and staring about him as if he expected to see another Giant .
At that moment the twenty thousand archers twanged their bowstrings , and the arrows came whizzing , like so many winged mosquitoes , right into the face of Hercules .
But I doubt whether more than half a dozen of them punctured the skin , which was remarkably tough , as you know the skin of a hero has good need to be .
`` Villain ! ''
shouted all the Pygmies at once .
`` You have killed the Giant Antaeus , our great brother , and the ally of our nation .
We declare bloody war against you , and will slay you on the spot . ''
Surprised at the shrill piping of so many little voices , Hercules , after putting out the conflagration of his hair , gazed all round about , but could see nothing .
At last , however , looking narrowly on the ground , he espied the innumerable assemblage of Pygmies at his feet .
He stooped down , and taking up the nearest one between his thumb and finger , set him on the palm of his left hand , and held him at a proper distance for examination .
It chanced to be the very identical Pygmy who had spoken from the top of the toadstool , and had offered himself as a champion to meet Hercules in single combat .
`` What in the world , my little fellow , '' ejaculated Hercules , `` may you be ? ''
`` I am your enemy , '' answered the valiant Pygmy , in his mightiest squeak .
`` You have slain the enormous Antaeus , our brother by the mother 's side , and for ages the faithful ally of our illustrious nation .
We are determined to put you to death ; and for my own part , I challenge you to instant battle , on equal ground . ''
Hercules was so tickled with the Pygmy 's big words and warlike gestures , that he burst into a great explosion of laughter , and almost dropped the poor little mite of a creature off the palm of his hand , through the ecstasy and convulsion of his merriment .
`` Upon my word , '' cried he , `` I thought I had seen wonders before to-day -- hydras with nine heads , stags with golden horns , six-legged men , three-headed dogs , giants with furnaces in their stomachs , and nobody knows what besides .
But here , on the palm of my hand , stands a wonder that outdoes them all !
Your body , my little friend , is about the size of an ordinary man 's finger .
Pray , how big may your soul be ? ''
`` As big as your own ! ''
said the Pygmy .
Hercules was touched with the little man 's dauntless courage , and could not help acknowledging such a brotherhood with him as one hero feels for another .
`` My good little people , '' said he , making a low obeisance to the grand nation , `` not for all the world would I do an intentional injury to such brave fellows as you !
Your hearts seem to me so exceedingly great , that , upon my honor , I marvel how your small bodies can contain them .
I sue for peace , and , as a condition of it , will take five strides , and be out of your kingdom at the sixth .
Good-bye .
I shall pick my steps carefully , for fear of treading upon some fifty of you , without knowing it .
Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
For once , Hercules acknowledges himself vanquished . ''
Some writers say , that Hercules gathered up the whole race of Pygmies in his lion 's skin , and carried them home to Greece , for the children of King Eurystheus to play with .
But this is a mistake .
He left them , one and all , within their own territory , where , for aught I can tell , their descendants are alive to the present day , building their little houses , cultivating their little fields , spanking their little children , waging their little warfare with the cranes , doing their little business , whatever it may be , and reading their little histories of ancient times .
In those histories , perhaps , it stands recorded , that , a great many centuries ago , the valiant Pygmies avenged the death of the Giant Antaeus by scaring away the mighty Hercules .
THE DRAGON 'S TEETH .
Cadmus , Phoenix , and Cilix , the three sons of King Agenor , and their little sister Europa -LRB- who was a very beautiful child -RRB- , were at play together near the seashore in their father 's kingdom of Phoenicia .
They had rambled to some distance from the palace where their parents dwelt , and were now in a verdant meadow , on one side of which lay the sea , all sparkling and dimpling in the sunshine , and murmuring gently against the beach .
The three boys were very happy , gathering flowers , and twining them into garlands , with which they adorned the little Europa .
Seated on the grass , the child was almost hidden under an abundance of buds and blossoms , whence her rosy face peeped merrily out , and , as Cadmus said , was the prettiest of all the flowers .
Just then , there came a splendid butterfly , fluttering along the meadow ; and Cadmus , Phoenix , and Cilix set off in pursuit of it , crying out that it was a flower with wings .
Europa , who was a little wearied with playing all day long , did not chase the butterfly with her brothers , but sat still where they had left her , and closed her eyes .
For a while , she listened to the pleasant murmur of the sea , which was like a voice saying `` Hush ! ''
and bidding her go to sleep .
But the pretty child , if she slept at all , could not have slept more than a moment , when she heard something trample on the grass , not far from her , and , peeping out from the heap of flowers , beheld a snow-white bull .
And whence could this bull have com ?
Europa and her brothers had been a long time playing in the meadow , and had seen no cattle , nor other living thing , either there or on the neighboring hills .
`` Brother Cadmus ! ''
cried Europa , starting up out of the midst of the roses and lilies .
`` Phoenix !
Cilix !
Where are you all ?
Help !
Help !
Come and drive away this bull ! ''
But her brothers were too far off to hear ; especially as the fright took away Europa 's voice , and hindered her from calling very loudly .
So there she stood , with her pretty mouth wide open , as pale as the white lilies that were twisted among the other flowers in her garlands .
Nevertheless , it was the suddenness with which she had perceived the bull , rather than anything frightful in his appearance , that caused Europa so much alarm .
On looking at him more attentively , she began to see that he was a beautiful animal , and even fancied a particularly amiable expression in his face .
As for his breath -- the breath of cattle , you know , is always sweet -- it was as fragrant as if he had been grazing on no other food than rosebuds , or at least , the most delicate of clover blossoms .
Never before did a bull have such bright and tender eyes , and such smooth horns of ivory , as this one .
And the bull ran little races , and capered sportively around the child ; so that she quite forgot how big and strong he was , and , from the gentleness and playfulness of his actions , soon came to consider him as innocent a creature as a pet lamb .
Thus , frightened as she at first was , you might by and by have seen Europa stroking the bull 's forehead with her small white hand , and taking the garlands off her own head to hang them on his neck and ivory horns .
Then she pulled up some blades of grass , and he ate them out of her hand , not as if he were hungry , but because he wanted to be friends with the child , and took pleasure in eating what she had touched .
Well , my stars !
was there ever such a gentle , sweet , pretty , and amiable creature as this bull , and ever such a nice playmate for a little girl ?
When the animal saw -LRB- for the bull had so much intelligence that it is really wonderful to think of -RRB- , when he saw that Europa was no longer afraid of him , he grew overjoyed , and could hardly contain himself for delight .
He frisked about the meadow , now here , now there , making sprightly leaps , with as little effort as a bird expends in hopping from twig to twig .
Indeed , his motion was as light as if he were flying through the air , and his hoofs seemed hardly to leave their print in the grassy soil over which he trod .
With his spotless hue , he resembled a snow drift , wafted along by the wind .
Once he galloped so far away that Europa feared lest she might never see him again ; so , setting up her childish voice , called him back .
`` Come back , pretty creature ! ''
she cried .
`` Here is a nice clover blossom . ''
And then it was delightful to witness the gratitude of this amiable bull , and how he was so full of joy and thankfulness that he capered higher than ever .
He came running , and bowed his head before Europa , as if he knew her to be a king 's daughter , or else recognized the important truth that a little girl is everybody 's queen .
And not only did the bull bend his neck , he absolutely knelt down at her feet , and made such intelligent nods , and other inviting gestures , that Europa understood what he meant just as well as if he had put it in so many words .
`` Come , dear child , '' was what he wanted to say , `` let me give you a ride on my back . ''
At the first thought of such a thing , Europa drew back .
But then she considered in her wise little head that there could be no possible harm in taking just one gallop on the back of this docile and friendly animal , who would certainly set her down the very instant she desired it .
And how it would surprise her brothers to see her riding across the green meadow !
And what merry times they might have , either taking turns for a gallop , or clambering on the gentle creature , all four children together , and careering round the field with shouts of laughter that would be heard as far off as King Agenor 's palace !
`` I think I will do it , '' said the child to herself .
And , indeed , why not ?
She cast a glance around , and caught a glimpse of Cadmus , Phoenix , and Cilix , who were still in pursuit of the butterfly , almost at the other end of the meadow .
It would be the quickest way of rejoining them , to get upon the white bull 's back .
She came a step nearer to him therefore ; and -- sociable creature that he was -- he showed so much joy at this mark of her confidence , that the child could not find in her heart to hesitate any longer .
Making one bound -LRB- for this little princess was as active as a squirrel -RRB- , there sat Europa on the beautiful bull , holding an ivory horn in each hand , lest she should fall off .
`` Softly , pretty bull , softly ! ''
she said , rather frightened at what she had done .
`` Do not gallop too fast . ''
Having got the child on his back , the animal gave a leap into the air , and came down so like a feather that Europa did not know when his hoofs touched the ground .
He then began a race to that part of the flowery plain where her three brothers were , and where they had just caught their splendid butterfly .
Europa screamed with delight ; and Phoenix , Cilix , and Cadmus stood gaping at the spectacle of their sister mounted on a white bull , not knowing whether to be frightened or to wish the same good luck for themselves .
The gentle and innocent creature -LRB- for who could possibly doubt that he was so ? -RRB-
pranced round among the children as sportively as a kitten .
Europa all the while looked down upon her brothers , nodding and laughing , but yet with a sort of stateliness in her rosy little face .
As the bull wheeled about to take another gallop across the meadow , the child waved her hand , and said , `` Good-bye , '' playfully pretending that she was now bound on a distant journey , and might not see her brothers again for nobody could tell how long .
`` Good-bye , '' shouted Cadmus , Phoenix , and Cilix , all in one breath .
But , together with her enjoyment of the sport , there was still a little remnant of fear in the child 's heart ; so that her last look at the three boys was a troubled one , and made them feel as if their dear sister were really leaving them forever .
And what do you think the snowy bull did next ?
Why , he set off , as swift as the wind , straight down to the seashore , scampered across the sand , took an airy leap , and plunged right in among the foaming billows .
The white spray rose in a shower over him and little Europa , and fell spattering down upon the water .
Then what a scream of terror did the poor child send forth !
The three brothers screamed manfully , likewise , and ran to the shore as fast as their legs would carry them , with Cadmus at their head .
But it was too late .
When they reached the margin of the sand , the treacherous animal was already far away in the wide blue sea , with only his snowy head and tail emerging , and poor little Europa between them , stretching out one hand towards her dear brothers , while she grasped the bull 's ivory horn with the other .
And there stood Cadmus , Phoenix , and Cilix , gazing at this sad spectacle , through their tears , until they could no longer distinguish the bull 's snowy head from the white-capped billows that seemed to boil up out of the sea 's depths around him .
Nothing more was ever seen of the white bull -- nothing more of the beautiful child .
This was a mournful story , as you may well think , for the three boys to carry home to their parents .
King Agenor , their father , was the ruler of the whole country ; but he loved his little daughter Europa better than his kingdom , or than all his other children , or than anything else in the world .
Therefore , when Cadmus and his two brothers came crying home , and told him how that a white bull had carried off their sister , and swam with her over the sea , the king was quite beside himself with grief and rage .
Although it was now twilight , and fast growing dark , he bade them set out instantly in search of her .
`` Never shall you see my face again , '' he cried , `` unless you bring me back my little Europa , to gladden me with her smiles and her pretty ways .
Begone , and enter my presence no more , till you come leading her by the hand . ''
As King Agenor said this , his eyes flashed fire -LRB- for he was a very passionate king -RRB- , and he looked so terribly angry that the poor boys did not even venture to ask for their suppers , but slunk away out of the palace , and only paused on the steps a moment to consult whither they should go first .
While they were standing there , all in dismay , their mother , Queen Telephassa -LRB- who happened not to be by when they told the story to the king -RRB- , came hurrying after them , and said that she too would go in quest of her daughter .
`` O , no , mother ! ''
cried the boys .
`` The night is dark , and there is no knowing what troubles and perils we may meet with . ''
`` Alas !
my dear children , '' answered poor Queen Telephassa ; weeping bitterly , `` that is only another reason why I should go with you .
If I should lose you , too , as well as my little Europa , what would become of me ! ''
`` And let me go likewise ! ''
said their playfellow Thasus , who came running to join them .
Thasus was the son of a seafaring person in the neighborhood ; he had been brought up with the young princes , and was their intimate friend , and loved Europa very much ; so they consented that he should accompany them .
The whole party , therefore , set forth together .
Cadmus , Phoenix , Cilix , and Thasus clustered round Queen Telephassa , grasping her skirts , and begging her to lean upon their shoulders whenever she felt weary .
In this manner they went down the palace steps , and began a journey , which turned out to be a great deal longer than they dreamed of .
The last that they saw of King Agenor , he came to the door , with a servant holding a torch beside him , and called after them into the gathering darkness : `` Remember !
Never ascend these steps again without the child ! ''
`` Never ! ''
sobbed Queen Telephassa ; and the three brothers and Thasus answered , `` Never !
Never !
Never !
Never ! ''
And they kept their word .
Year after year , King Agenor sat in the solitude of his beautiful palace , listening in vain for their returning footsteps , hoping to hear the familiar voice of the queen , and the cheerful talk of his sons and their playfellow Thasus , entering the door together , and the sweet , childish accents of little Europa in the midst of them .
But so long a time went by , that , at last , if they had really come , the king would not have known that this was the voice of Telephassa , and these the younger voices that used to make such joyful echoes , when the children were playing about the palace .
We must now leave King Agenor to sit on his throne , and must go along with Queen Telephassa , and her four youthful companions .
They went on and on , and traveled a long way , and passed over mountains and rivers , and sailed over seas .
Here , and there , and everywhere , they made continual inquiry if any person could tell them what had become of Europa .
The rustic people , of whom they asked this question , paused a little while from their labors in the field , and looked very much surprised .
They thought it strange to behold a woman in the garb of a queen -LRB- for Telephassa in her haste had forgotten to take off her crown and her royal robes -RRB- , roaming about the country , with four lads around her , on such an errand as this seemed to be .
But nobody could give them any tidings of Europa ; nobody had seen a little girl dressed like a princess , and mounted on a snow-white bull , which galloped as swiftly as the wind .
I can not tell you how long Queen Telephassa , and Cadmus , Phoenix , and Cilix , her three sons , and Thasus , their playfellow , went wandering along the highways and bypaths , or through the pathless wildernesses of the earth , in this manner .
But certain it is , that , before they reached any place of rest , their splendid garments were quite worn out .
They all looked very much travel-stained , and would have had the dust of many countries on their shoes , if the streams , through which they waded , had not washed it all away .
When they had been gone a year , Telephassa threw away her crown , because it chafed her forehead .
`` It has given me many a headache , '' said the poor queen , `` and it can not cure my heartache . ''
As fast as their princely robes got torn and tattered , they exchanged them for such mean attire as ordinary people wore .
By and by , they come to have a wild and homeless aspect ; so that you would much sooner have taken them for a gypsy family than a queen and three princes , and a young nobleman , who had once a palace for a home , and a train of servants to do their bidding .
The four boys grew up to be tall young men , with sunburnt faces .
Each of them girded on a sword , to defend themselves against the perils of the way .
When the husbandmen , at whose farmhouses they sought hospitality , needed their assistance in the harvest field , they gave it willingly ; and Queen Telephassa -LRB- who had done no work in her palace , save to braid silk threads with golden ones -RRB- came behind them to bind the sheaves .
If payment was offered , they shook their heads , and only asked for tidings of Europa .
`` There are bulls enough in my pasture , '' the old farmers would reply ; `` but I never heard of one like this you tell me of .
A snow-white bull with a little princess on his back !
Ho !
ho !
I ask your pardon , good folks ; but there never such a sight seen hereabouts . ''
At last , when his upper lip began to have the down on it , Phoenix grew weary of rambling hither and thither to no purpose .
So one day , when they happened to be passing through a pleasant and solitary tract of country , he sat himself down on a heap of moss .
`` I can go no farther , '' said Phoenix .
`` It is a mere foolish waste of life , to spend it as we do , always wandering up and down , and never coming to any home at nightfall .
Our sister is lost , and never will be found .
She probably perished in the sea ; or , to whatever shore the white bull may have carried her , it is now so many years ago , that there would be neither love nor acquaintance between us , should we meet again .
My father has forbidden us to return to his palace , so I shall build me a hut of branches , and dwell here . ''
`` Well , son Phoenix , '' said Telephassa , sorrowfully , `` you have grown to be a man , and must do as you judge best .
But , for my part , I will still go in quest of my poor child . ''
`` And we three will go along with you ! ''
cried Cadmus and Cilix , and their faithful friend Thasus .
But , before setting out , they all helped Phoenix to build a habitation .
When completed , it was a sweet rural bower , roofed overhead with an arch of living boughs .
Inside there were two pleasant rooms , one of which had a soft heap of moss for a bed , while the other was furnished with a rustic seat or two , curiously fashioned out of the crooked roots of trees .
So comfortable and home-like did it seem , that Telephassa and her three companions could not help sighing , to think that they must still roam about the world , instead of spending the remainder of their lives in some such cheerful abode as they had here built for Phoenix .
But , when they bade him farewell , Phoenix shed tears , and probably regretted that he was no longer to keep them company .
However , he had fixed upon an admirable place to dwell in .
And by and by there came other people , who chanced to have no homes ; and , seeing how pleasant a spot it was , they built themselves huts in the neighborhood of Phoenix 's habitation .
Thus , before many years went by , a city had grown up there , in the center of which was seen a stately palace of marble , wherein dwelt Phoenix , clothed in a purple robe , and wearing a golden crown upon his head .
For the inhabitants of the new city , finding that he had royal blood in his veins , had chosen him to be their king .
The very first decree of state which King Phoenix issued was , that , if a maiden happened to arrive in the kingdom , mounted on a snow-white bull , and calling herself Europa , his subjects should treat her with the greatest kindness and respect , and immediately bring her to the palace .
You may see , by this , that Phoenix 's conscience never quite ceased to trouble him , for giving up the quest of his dear sister , and sitting himself down to be comfortable , while his mother and her companions went onward .
But often and often , at the close of a weary day 's journey , did Telephassa and Cadmus , Cilix , and Thasus , remember the pleasant spot in which they had left Phoenix .
It was a sorrowful prospect for these wanderers , that on the morrow they must again set forth , and that , after many nightfalls , they would perhaps be no nearer the close of their toilsome pilgrimage than now .
These thoughts made them all melancholy at times , but appeared to torment Cilix more than the rest of the party .
At length , one morning , when they were taking their staffs in hand to set out , he thus addressed them : `` My dear mother , and you , good brother Cadmus , and my friend Thasus , methinks we are like people in a dream .
There is no substance in the life which we are leading .
It is such a dreary length of time since the white bull carried off my sister Europa , that I have quite forgotten how she looked , and the tones of her voice , and , indeed , almost doubt whether such a little girl ever lived in the world .
And whether she once lived or no , I am convinced that she no longer survives , and that therefore it is the merest folly to waste our own lives and happiness in seeking her .
Were we to find her , she would now be a woman grown , and would look upon us all as strangers .
So , to tell you the truth , I have resolved to take up my abode here ; and I entreat you , mother , brother , and friend , to follow my example . ''
`` Not I , for one , '' said Telephassa ; although the poor queen , firmly as she spoke , was so travel-worn that she could hardly put her foot to the ground .
`` Not I , for one !
In the depths of my heart , little Europa is still the rosy child who ran to gather flowers so many years ago .
She has not grown to womanhood , nor forgotten me .
At noon , at night , journeying onward , sitting down to rest , her childish voice is always in my ears , calling , ` Mother !
mother ! '
Stop here who may , there is no repose for me . ''
`` Nor for me , '' said Cadmus , `` while my dear mother pleases to go onward . ''
And the faithful Thasus , too , was resolved to bear them company .
They remained with Cilix a few days , however , and helped him to build a rustic bower , resembling the one which they had formerly built for Phoenix .
When they were bidding him farewell Cilix burst into tears , and told his mother that it seemed just as melancholy a dream to stay there , in solitude , as to go onward .
If she really believed that they would ever find Europa , he was willing to continue the search with them , even now .
But Telephassa bade him remain there , and be happy , if his own heart would let him .
So the pilgrims took their leave of him , and departed , and were hardly out of sight before some other wandering people came along that way , and saw Cilix 's habitation , and were greatly delighted with the appearance of the place .
There being abundance of unoccupied ground in the neighborhood , these strangers built huts for themselves , and were soon joined by a multitude of new settlers , who quickly formed a city .
In the middle of it was seen a magnificent palace of colored marble , on the balcony of which , every noontide , appeared Cilix , in a long purple robe , and with a jeweled crown upon his head ; for the inhabitants , when they found out that he was a king 's son , had considered him the fittest of all men to be a king himself .
One of the first acts of King Cilix 's government was to send out an expedition , consisting of a grave ambassador , and an escort of bold and hardy young men , with orders to visit the principal kingdoms of the earth , and inquire whether a young maiden had passed through those regions , galloping swiftly on a white bull .
It is , therefore , plain to my mind , that Cilix secretly blamed himself for giving up the search for Europa , as long as he was able to put one foot before the other .
As for Telephassa , and Cadmus , and the good Thasus , it grieves me to think of them , still keeping up that weary pilgrimage .
The two young men did their best for the poor queen , helping her over the rough places , often carrying her across rivulets in their faithful arms and seeking to shelter her at nightfall , even when they themselves lay on the ground .
Sad , sad it was to hear them asking of every passer-by if he had seen Europa , so long after the white bull had carried her away .
But , though the gray years thrust themselves between , and made the child 's figure dim in their remembrance , neither of these true-hearted three ever dreamed of giving up the search .
One morning , however , poor Thasus found that he had sprained his ankle , and could not possibly go a step farther .
`` After a few days , to be sure , '' said he , mournfully , `` I might make shift to hobble along with a stick .
But that would only delay you , and perhaps hinder you from finding dear little Europa , after all your pains and trouble .
Do you go forward , therefore , my beloved companions , and leave me to follow as I may . ''
`` Thou hast been a true friend , dear Thasus , '' said Queen Telephassa , kissing his forehead .
`` Being neither my son , nor the brother of our lost Europa , thou hast shown thyself truer to me and her than Phoenix and Cilix did , whom we have left behind us .
Without thy loving help , and that of my son Cadmus , my limbs could not have borne me half so far as this .
Now , take thy rest , and be at peace .
For -- and it is the first time I have owned it to myself -- I begin to question whether we shall ever find my beloved daughter in this world . ''
Saying this , the poor queen shed tears , because it was a grievous trial to the mother 's heart to confess that her hopes were growing faint .
From that day forward , Cadmus noticed that she never traveled with the same alacrity of spirit that had heretofore supported her .
Her weight was heavier upon his arm .
Before setting out , Cadmus helped Thasus build a bower ; while Telephassa , being too infirm to give any great assistance , advised them how to fit it up and furnish it , so that it might be as comfortable as a hut of branches could .
Thasus , however , did not spend all his days in this green bower .
For it happened to him , as to Phoenix and Cilix , that other homeless people visited the spot , and liked it , and built themselves habitations in the neighborhood .
So here , in the course of a few years , was another thriving city , with a red freestone palace in the center of it , where Thasus sat upon a throne , doing justice to the people , with a purple robe over his shoulders , a sceptre in his hand , and a crown upon his head .
The inhabitants had made him king , not for the sake of any royal blood -LRB- for none was in his veins -RRB- , but because Thasus was an upright , true-hearted , and courageous man , and therefore fit to rule .
But when the affairs of his kingdom were all settled , King Thasus laid aside his purple robe and crown , and sceptre , and bade his worthiest subjects distribute justice to the people in his stead .
Then , grasping the pilgrim 's staff that had supported him so long , he set forth again , hoping still to discover some hoof-mark of the snow-white bull , some trace of the vanished child .
He returned after a lengthened absence , and sat down wearily upon his throne .
To his latest hour , nevertheless , King Thasus showed his true-hearted remembrance of Europa , by ordering that a fire should always be kept burning in his palace , and a bath steaming hot , and food ready to be served up , and a bed with snow-white sheets , in case the maiden should arrive , and require immediate refreshment .
And , though Europa never came , the good Thasus had the blessings of many a poor traveler , who profited by the food and lodging which were meant for the little playmate of the king 's boyhood .
Telephassa and Cadmus were now pursuing their weary way , with no companion but each other .
The queen leaned heavily upon her son 's arm , and could walk only a few miles a day .
But for all her weakness and weariness , she would not be persuaded to give up the search .
It was enough to bring tears into the eyes of bearded men to hear the melancholy tone with which she inquired of every stranger whether he could not tell her any news of the lost child .
`` Have you seen a little girl -- no , no , I mean a young maiden of full growth -- passing by this way , mounted on a snow-white bull , which gallops as swiftly as the wind ? ''
`` We have seen no such wondrous sight , '' the people would reply ; and very often , taking Cadmus aside , they whispered to him , `` Is this stately and sad-looking woman your mother ?
Surely she is not in her right mind ; and you ought to take her home , and make her comfortable , and do your best to get this dream out of her fancy . ''
`` It is no dream , '' said Cadmus .
`` Everything else is a dream , save that . ''
But , one day , Telephassa seemed feebler than usual , and leaned almost her whole weight on the arm of Cadmus , and walked more slowly than ever before .
At last they reached a solitary spot , where she told her son that she must needs lie down , and take a good long rest .
`` A good long rest ! ''
she repeated , looking Cadmus tenderly in the face .
`` A good long rest , thou dearest one ! ''
`` As long as you please , dear mother , '' answered Cadmus .
Telephassa bade him sit down on the turf beside her , and then she took his hand .
`` My son , '' said she , fixing her dim eyes most lovingly upon him , `` this rest that I speak of will be very long indeed !
You must not wait till it is finished .
Dear Cadmus , you do not comprehend me .
You must make a grave here , and lay your mother 's weary frame into it .
My pilgrimage is over . ''
Cadmus burst into tears , and , for a long time , refused to believe that his dear mother was now to be taken from him .
But Telephassa reasoned with him , and kissed him , and at length made him discern that it was better for her spirit to pass away out of the toil , the weariness , and grief , and disappointment which had burdened her on earth , ever since the child was lost .
He therefore repressed his sorrow , and listened to her last words .
`` Dearest Cadmus , '' said she , `` thou hast been the truest son that ever mother had , and faithful to the very last .
Who else would have borne with my infirmities as thou hast !
It is owing to thy care , thou tenderest child , that my grave was not dug long years ago , in some valley , or on some hillside , that lies far , far behind us .
It is enough .
Thou shalt wander no more on this hopeless search .
But , when thou hast laid thy mother in the earth , then go , my son , to Delphi , and inquire of the oracle what thou shalt do next . ''
`` O mother , mother , '' cried Cadmus , `` couldst thou but have seen my sister before this hour ! ''
`` It matters little now , '' answered Telephassa , and there was a smile upon her face .
`` I go now to the better world , and , sooner or later , shall find my daughter there . ''
I will not sadden you , my little hearers , with telling how Telephassa died and was buried , but will only say , that her dying smile grew brighter , instead of vanishing from her dead face ; so that Cadmus left convinced that , at her very first step into the better world , she had caught Europa in her arms .
He planted some flowers on his mother 's grave , and left them to grow there , and make the place beautiful , when he should be far away .
After performing this last sorrowful duty , he set forth alone , and took the road towards the famous oracle of Delphi , as Telephassa had advised him .
On his way thither , he still inquired of most people whom he met whether they had seen Europa ; for , to say the truth , Cadmus had grown so accustomed to ask the question , that it came to his lips as readily as a remark about the weather .
He received various answers .
Some told him one thing , and some another .
Among the rest , a mariner affirmed , that , many years before , in a distant country , he had heard a rumor about a white bull , which came swimming across the sea with a child on his back , dressed up in flowers that were blighted by the sea water .
He did not know what had become of the child or the bull ; and Cadmus suspected , indeed , by a queer twinkle in the mariner 's eyes , that he was putting a joke upon him , and had never really heard anything about the matter .
Poor Cadmus found it more wearisome to travel alone than to bear all his dear mother 's weight , while she had kept him company .
His heart , you will understand , was now so heavy that it seemed impossible , sometimes , to carry it any farther .
But his limbs were strong and active , and well accustomed to exercise .
He walked swiftly along , thinking of King Agenor and Queen Telephassa , and his brothers , and the friendly Thasus , all of whom he had left behind him , at one point of his pilgrimage or another , and never expected to see them any more .
Full of these remembrances , he came within sight of a lofty mountain , which the people thereabouts told him was called Parnassus .
On the slope of Mount Parnassus was the famous Delphi , whither Cadmus was going .
This Delphi was supposed to be the very midmost spot of the whole world .
The place of the oracle was a certain cavity in the mountain side , over which , when Cadmus came thither , he found a rude bower of branches .
It reminded him of those which he had helped to build for Phoenix and Cilix , and afterwards for Thasus .
In later times , when multitudes of people came from great distances to put questions to the oracle , a spacious temple of marble was erected over the spot .
But in the days of Cadmus , as I have told you , there was only this rustic bower , with its abundance of green foliage , and a tuft of shrubbery , that ran wild over the mysterious hole in the hillside .
When Cadmus had thrust a passage through the tangled boughs , and made his way into the bower , he did not at first discern the half-hidden cavity .
But soon he felt a cold stream of air rushing out of it , with so much force that it shook the ringlets on his cheek .
Pulling away the shrubbery which clustered over the hole , he bent forward , and spoke in a distinct but reverential tone , as if addressing some unseen personage inside of the mountain .
`` Sacred oracle of Delphi , '' said he , `` whither shall I go next in quest of my dear sister Europa ? ''
There was at first a deep silence , and then a rushing sound , or a noise like a long sigh , proceeding out of the interior of the earth .
This cavity , you must know , was looked upon as a sort of fountain of truth , which sometimes gushed out in audible words ; although , for the most part , these words were such a riddle that they might just as well have staid at the bottom of the hole .
But Cadmus was more fortunate than many others who went to Delphi in search of truth .
By and by , the rushing noise began to sound like articulate language .
It repeated , over and over again , the following sentence , which , after all , was so like the vague whistle of a blast of air , that Cadmus really did not quite know whether it meant anything or not : `` Seek her no more !
Seek her no more !
Seek her no more ! ''
`` What , then , shall I do ? ''
asked Cadmus .
For , ever since he was a child , you know , it had been the great object of his life to find his sister .
From the very hour that he left following the butterfly in the meadow , near his father 's palace , he had done his best to follow Europa , over land and sea .
And now , if he must give up the search , he seemed to have no more business in the world .
But again the sighing gust of air grew into something like a hoarse voice .
`` Follow the cow ! ''
it said .
`` Follow the cow !
Follow the cow ! ''
And when these words had been repeated until Cadmus was tired of hearing them -LRB- especially as he could not imagine what cow it was , or why he was to follow her -RRB- , the gusty hole gave vent to another sentence .
`` Where the stray cow lies down , there is your home . ''
These words were pronounced but a single time , and died away into a whisper before Cadmus was fully satisfied that he had caught the meaning .
He put other questions , but received no answer ; only the gust of wind sighed continually out of the cavity , and blew the withered leaves rustling along the ground before it .
`` Did there really come any words out of the hole ? ''
thought Cadmus ; `` or have I been dreaming all this while ? ''
He turned away from the oracle , and thought himself no wiser than when he came thither .
Caring little what might happen to him , he took the first path that offered itself , and went along at a sluggish pace ; for , having no object in view , nor any reason to go one way more than another , it would certainly have been foolish to make haste .
Whenever he met anybody , the old question was at his tongue 's end .
`` Have you seen a beautiful maiden , dressed like a king 's daughter , and mounted on a snow-white bull , that gallops as swiftly as the wind ? ''
But , remembering what the oracle had said , he only half uttered the words , and then mumbled the rest indistinctly ; and from his confusion , people must have imagined that this handsome young man had lost his wits .
I know not how far Cadmus had gone , nor could he himself have told you , when at no great distance before him , he beheld a brindled cow .
She was lying down by the wayside , and quietly chewing her cud ; nor did she take any notice of the young man until he had approached pretty nigh .
Then , getting leisurely upon her feet , and giving her head a gentle toss , she began to move along at a moderate pace , often pausing just long enough to crop a mouthful of grass .
Cadmus loitered behind , whistling idly to himself , and scarcely noticing the cow ; until the thought occurred to him , whether this could possibly be the animal which , according to the oracle 's response , was to serve him for a guide .
But he smiled at himself for fancying such a thing .
He could not seriously think that this was the cow , because she went along so quietly , behaving just like any other cow .
Evidently she neither knew nor cared so much as a wisp of hay about Cadmus , and was only thinking how to get her living along the wayside , where the herbage was green and fresh .
Perhaps she was going home to be milked .
`` Cow , cow , cow ! ''
cried Cadmus .
`` Hey , Brindle , hey !
Stop , my good cow ! ''
He wanted to come up with the cow , so as to examine her , and see if she would appear to know him , or whether there were any peculiarities to distinguish her from a thousand other cows , whose only business is to fill the milk-pail , and sometimes kick it over .
But still the brindled cow trudged on , whisking her tail to keep the flies away , and taking as little notice of Cadmus as she well could .
If he walked slowly , so did the cow , and seized the opportunity to graze .
If he quickened his pace , the cow went just so much the faster ; and once , when Cadmus tried to catch her by running , she threw out her heels , stuck her tail straight on end , and set off at a gallop , looking as queerly as cows generally do , while putting themselves to their speed .
When Cadmus saw that it was impossible to come up with her , he walked on moderately , as before .
The cow , too , went leisurely on , without looking behind .
Wherever the grass was greenest , there she nibbled a mouthful or two .
Where a brook glistened brightly across the path , there the cow drank , and breathed a comfortable sigh , and drank again , and trudged onward at the pace that best suited herself and Cadmus .
`` I do believe , '' thought Cadmus , `` that this may be the cow that was foretold me .
If it be the one , I suppose she will lie down somewhere hereabouts . ''
Whether it were the oracular cow or some other one , it did not seem reasonable that she should travel a great way farther .
So , whenever they reached a particularly pleasant spot on a breezy hillside , or in a sheltered vale , or flowery meadow , on the shore of a calm lake , or along the bank of a clear stream , Cadmus looked eagerly around to see if the situation would suit him for a home .
But still , whether he liked the place or no , the brindled cow never offered to lie down .
On she went at the quiet pace of a cow going homeward to the barn yard ; and , every moment , Cadmus expected to see a milkmaid approaching with a pail , or a herdsman running to head the stray animal , and turn her back towards the pasture .
But no milkmaid came ; no herdsman drove her back ; and Cadmus followed the stray Brindle till he was almost ready to drop down with fatigue .
`` O brindled cow , '' cried he , in a tone of despair , `` do you never mean to stop ? ''
He had now grown too intent on following her to think of lagging behind , however long the way , and whatever might be his fatigue .
Indeed , it seemed as if there were something about the animal that bewitched people .
Several persons who happened to see the brindled cow , and Cadmus following behind , began to trudge after her , precisely as he did .
Cadmus was glad of somebody to converse with , and therefore talked very freely to these good people .
He told them all his adventures , and how he had left King Agenor in his palace , and Phoenix at one place , and Cilix at another , and Thasus at a third , and his dear mother , Queen Telephassa , under a flowery sod ; so that now he was quite alone , both friendless and homeless .
He mentioned , likewise , that the oracle had bidden him be guided by a cow , and inquired of the strangers whether they supposed that this brindled animal could be the one .
`` Why , 't is a very wonderful affair , '' answered one of his new companions .
`` I am pretty well acquainted with the ways of cattle , and I never knew a cow , of her own accord , to go so far without stopping .
If my legs will let me , I 'll never leave following the beast till she lies down . ''
`` Nor I ! ''
said a second .
`` Nor I ! ''
cried a third .
`` If she goes a hundred miles farther , I am determined to see the end of it . ''
The secret of it was , you must know , that the cow was an enchanted cow , and that , without their being conscious of it , she threw some of her enchantment over everybody that took so much as half a dozen steps behind her .
They could not possibly help following her , though all the time they fancied themselves doing it of their own accord .
The cow was by no means very nice in choosing her path ; so that sometimes they had to scramble over rocks , or wade through mud and mire , and all in a terribly bedraggled condition , and tired to death , and very hungry , into the bargain .
What a weary business it was !
But still they kept trudging stoutly forward , and talking as they went .
The strangers grew very fond of Cadmus , and resolved never to leave him , but to help him build a city wherever the cow might lie down .
In the center of it there should be a noble palace , in which Cadmus might dwell , and be their king , with a throne , a crown , a sceptre , a purple robe , and everything else that a king ought to have ; for in him there was the royal blood , and the royal heart , and the head that knew how to rule .
While they were talking of these schemes , and beguiling the tediousness of the way with laying out the plan of the new city , one of the company happened to look at the cow .
`` Joy !
joy ! ''
cried he , clapping his hands .
`` Brindle is going to lie down . ''
They all looked ; and , sure enough , the cow had stopped , and was staring leisurely about her , as other cows do when on the point of lying down .
And slowly , slowly did she recline herself on the soft grass , first bending her forelegs , and then crouching her hind ones .
When Cadmus and his companions came up with her , there was the brindled cow taking her ease , chewing her cud , and looking them quietly in the face ; as if this was just the spot she had been seeking for , and as if it were all a matter of course .
`` This , then , '' said Cadmus , gazing around him , `` this is to be my home . ''
It was a fertile and lovely plain , with great trees flinging their sun-speckled shadows over it , and hills fencing it in from the rough weather At no great distance , they beheld a river gleaming in the sunshine .
A home feeling stole into the heart of poor Cadmus .
He was very glad to know that here he might awake in the morning without the necessity of putting on his dusty sandals to travel farther and farther .
The days and the years would pass over him , and find him still in this pleasant spot .
If he could have had his brothers with him , and his friend Thasus , and could have seen his dear mother under a roof of his own , he might here have been happy after all their disappointments .
Some day or other , too , his sister Europa might have come quietly to the door of his home , and smiled round upon the familiar faces .
But , indeed , since there was no hope of regaining the friends of his boyhood , or ever seeing his dear sister again , Cadmus resolved to make himself happy with these new companions , who had grown so fond of him while following the cow .
`` Yes , my friends , '' said he to them , `` this is to be our home .
Here we will build our habitations .
The brindled cow , which has led us hither , will supply us with milk .
We will cultivate the neighboring soil and lead an innocent and happy life . ''
His companions joyfully assented to this plan ; and , in the first place , being very hungry and thirsty , they looked about them for the means of providing a comfortable meal .
Not far off they saw a tuft of trees , which appeared as if there might be a spring of water beneath them .
They went thither to fetch some , leaving Cadmus stretched on the ground along with the brindled cow ; for , now that he had found a place of rest , it seemed as if all the weariness of his pilgrimage , ever since he left King Agenor 's palace , had fallen upon him at once .
But his new friends had not long been gone , when he was suddenly startled by cries , shouts , and screams , and the noise of a terrible struggle , and in the midst of it all , a most awful hissing , which went right through his ears like a rough saw .
Running towards the tuft of trees , he beheld the head and fiery eyes of an immense serpent or dragon , with the widest jaws that ever a dragon had , and a vast many rows of horribly sharp teeth .
Before Cadmus could reach the spot , this pitiless reptile had killed his poor companions , and was busily devouring them , making but a mouthful of each man .
It appears that the fountain of water was enchanted , and that the dragon had been set to guard it , so that no mortal might ever quench his thirst there .
As the neighboring inhabitants carefully avoided the spot , it was now a long time -LRB- not less than a hundred years or thereabouts -RRB- since the monster had broken his fast ; and , as was natural enough , his appetite had grown to be enormous , and was not half satisfied by the poor people whom he had just eaten up .
When he caught sight of Cadmus , therefore , he set up another abominable hiss , and flung back his immense jaws , until his mouth looked like a great red cavern , at the farther end of which were seen the legs of his last victim , whom he had hardly had time to swallow .
But Cadmus was so enraged at the destruction of his friends that he cared neither for the size of the dragon 's jaws nor for his hundreds of sharp teeth .
Drawing his sword , he rushed at the monster , and flung himself right into his cavernous mouth .
This bold method of attacking him took the dragon by surprise ; for , in fact , Cadmus had leaped so far down into his throat , that the rows of terrible teeth could not close upon him , nor do him the least harm in the world .
Thus , though the struggle was a tremendous one , and though the dragon shattered the tuft of trees into small splinters by the lashing of his tail , yet , as Cadmus was all the while slashing and stabbing at his very vitals , it was not long before the scaly wretch bethought himself of slipping away .
He had not gone his length , however , when the brave Cadmus gave him a sword thrust that finished the battle ; and creeping out of the gateway of the creature 's jaws , there he beheld him still wriggling his vast bulk , although there was no longer life enough in him to harm a little child .
But do not you suppose that it made Cadmus sorrowful to think of the melancholy fate which had befallen those poor , friendly people , who had followed the cow along with him ?
It seemed as if he were doomed to lose everybody whom he loved , or to see them perish in one way or another .
And here he was , after all his toils and troubles , in a solitary place , with not a single human being to help him build a hut .
`` What shall I do ? ''
cried he aloud .
`` It were better for me to have been devoured by the dragon , as my poor companions were . ''
`` Cadmus , '' said a voice but whether it came from above or below him , or whether it spoke within his own breast , the young man could not tell -- `` Cadmus , pluck out the dragon 's teeth , and plant them in the earth . ''
This was a strange thing to do ; nor was it very easy , I should imagine , to dig out all those deep-rooted fangs from the dead dragon 's jaws .
But Cadmus toiled and tugged , and after pounding the monstrous head almost to pieces with a great stone , he at last collected as many teeth as might have filled a bushel or two .
The next thing was to plant them .
This , likewise , was a tedious piece of work , especially as Cadmus was already exhausted with killing the dragon and knocking his head to pieces , and had nothing to dig the earth with , that I know of , unless it were his sword blade .
Finally , however , a sufficiently large tract of ground was turned up , and sown with this new kind of seed ; although half of the dragon 's teeth still remained to be planted some other day .
Cadmus , quite out of breath , stood leaning upon his sword , and wondering what was to happen next .
He had waited but a few moments , when he began to see a sight , which was as great a marvel as the most marvelous thing I ever told you about .
The sun was shining slantwise over the field , and showed all the moist , dark soil just like any other newly-planted piece of ground .
All at once , Cadmus fancied he saw something glisten very brightly , first at one spot , then at another , and then at a hundred and a thousand spots together .
Soon he perceived them to be the steel heads of spears , sprouting up everywhere like so many stalks of grain , and continually growing taller and taller .
Next appeared a vast number of bright sword blades , thrusting themselves up in the same way .
A moment afterwards , the whole surface of the ground was broken by a multitude of polished brass helmets , coming up like a crop of enormous beans .
So rapidly did they grow , that Cadmus now discerned the fierce countenance of a man beneath every one .
In short , before he had time to think what a wonderful affair it was , he beheld an abundant harvest of what looked like human beings , armed with helmets and breastplates , shields , swords , and spears ; and before they were well out of the earth , they brandished their weapons , and clashed them one against another , seeming to think , little while as they had yet lived , that they had wasted too much of life without a battle .
Every tooth of the dragon had produced one of these sons of deadly mischief .
Up sprouted also a great many trumpeters ; and with the first breath that they drew , they put their brazen trumpets to their lips , and sounded a tremendous and ear-shattering blast , so that the whole space , just now so quiet and solitary , reverberated with the clash and clang of arms , the bray of warlike music , and the shouts of angry men .
So enraged did they all look , that Cadmus fully expected them to put the whole world to the sword .
How fortunate would it be for a great conqueror , if he could get a bushel of the dragon 's teeth to sow !
`` Cadmus , '' said the same voice which he had before heard , `` throw a stone into the midst of the armed men . ''
So Cadmus seized a large stone , and flinging it into the middle of the earth army , saw it strike the breastplate of a gigantic and fierce-looking warrior .
Immediately on feeling the blow , he seemed to take it for granted that somebody had struck him ; and , uplifting his weapon , he smote his next neighbor a blow that cleft his helmet asunder , and stretched him on the ground .
In an instant , those nearest the fallen warrior began to strike at one another with their swords , and stab with their spears .
The confusion spread wider and wider .
Each man smote down his brother , and was himself smitten down before he had time to exult in his victory .
The trumpeters , all the while , blew their blasts shriller and shriller ; each soldier shouted a battle cry , and often fell with it on his lips .
It was the strangest spectacle of causeless wrath , and of mischief for no good end , that had ever been witnessed ; but , after all , it was neither more foolish nor more wicked than a thousand battles that have since been fought , in which men have slain their brothers with just as little reason as these children of the dragon 's teeth .
It ought to be considered , too , that the dragon people were made for nothing else ; whereas other mortals were born to love and help one another .
Well , this memorable battle continued to rage until the ground was strewn with helmeted heads that had been cut off .
Of all the thousands that began the fight , there were only five left standing .
These now rushed from different parts of the field , and , meeting in the middle of it , clashed their swords , and struck at each other 's hearts as fiercely as ever .
`` Cadmus , '' said the voice again , `` bid those five warriors sheathe their swords .
They will help you to build the city . ''
Without hesitating an instant , Cadmus stepped forward , with the aspect of a king and a leader , and extending his drawn sword amongst them , spoke to the warriors in a stern and commanding voice .
`` Sheathe your weapons ! ''
said he .
And forthwith , feeling themselves bound to obey him , the five remaining sons of the dragon 's teeth made him a military salute with their swords , returned them to the scabbards , and stood before Cadmus in a rank , eyeing him as soldiers eye their captain , while awaiting the word of command .
These five men had probably sprung from the biggest of the dragon 's teeth , and were the boldest and strongest of the whole army .
They were almost giants indeed , and had good need to be so , else they never could have lived through so terrible a fight .
They still had a very furious look , and , if Cadmus happened to glance aside , would glare at one another , with fire flashing out of their eyes .
It was strange , too , to observe how the earth , out of which they had so lately grown , was incrusted , here and there , on their bright breastplates , and even , begrimed their faces ; just as you may have seen it clinging to beets and carrots , when pulled out of their native soil .
Cadmus hardly knew whether to consider them as men , or some odd kind of vegetable ; although , on the whole , he concluded that there was human nature in them , because they were so fond of trumpets and weapons , and so ready to shed blood .
They looked him earnestly in the face , waiting for his next order , and evidently desiring no other employment than to follow him from one battlefield to another , all over the wide world .
But Cadmus was wiser than these earth-born creatures , with the dragon 's fierceness in them , and knew better how to use their strength and hardihood .
`` Come ! ''
said he .
`` You are sturdy fellows .
Make yourselves useful !
Quarry some stones with those great swords of yours , and help me to build a city . ''
The five soldiers grumbled a little , and muttered that it was their business to overthrow cities , not to build them up .
But Cadmus looked at them with a stern eye , and spoke to them in a tone of authority , so that they knew him for their master , and never again thought of disobeying his commands .
They set to work in good earnest , and toiled so diligently , that , in a very short time , a city began to make its appearance .
At first , to be sure , the workmen showed a quarrelsome disposition .
Like savage beasts , they would doubtless have done one another a mischief , if Cadmus had not kept watch over them , and quelled the fierce old serpent that lurked in their hearts , when he saw it gleaming out of their wild eyes .
But , in course of time , they got accustomed to honest labor , and had sense enough to feel that there was more true enjoyment in living at peace , and doing good to one 's neighbor , than in striking at him with a two-edged sword .
It may not be too much to hope that the rest of mankind will by and by grow as wise and peaceable as these five earth-begrimed warriors , who sprang from the dragon 's teeth .
And now the city was built , and there was a home in it for each of the workmen .
But the palace of Cadmus was not yet erected , because they had left it till the last , meaning to introduce all the new improvements of architecture , and make it very commodious , as well as stately and beautiful .
After finishing the rest of their labors , they all went to bed betimes , in order to rise in the gray of the morning , and get at least the foundation of the edifice laid before nightfall .
But , when Cadmus arose , and took his way towards the site where the palace was to be built , followed by his five sturdy workmen marching all in a row , what do you think he saw ?
What should it be but the most magnificent palace that had ever been seen in the world .
It was built of marble and other beautiful kinds of stone , and rose high into the air , with a splendid dome and a portico along the front , and carved pillars , and everything else that befitted the habitation of a mighty king .
It had grown up out of the earth in almost as short a time as it had taken the armed host to spring from the dragon 's teeth ; and what made the matter more strange , no seed of this stately edifice ever had been planted .
When the five workmen beheld the dome , with the morning sunshine making it look golden and glorious , they gave a great shout .
`` Long live King Cadmus , '' they cried , `` in his beautiful palace . ''
And the new king , with his five faithful followers at his heels , shouldering their pickaxes and marching in a rank -LRB- for they still had a soldier-like sort of behavior , as their nature was -RRB- , ascended the palace steps .
Halting at the entrance , they gazed through a long vista of lofty pillars , that were ranged from end to end of a great hall .
At the farther extremity of this hall , approaching slowly towards him , Cadmus beheld a female figure , wonderfully beautiful , and adorned with a royal robe , and a crown of diamonds over her golden ringlets , and the richest necklace that ever a queen wore .
His heart thrilled with delight .
He fancied it his long-lost sister Europa , now grown to womanhood , coming to make him happy , and to repay him with her sweet sisterly affection , for all those weary wonderings in quest of her since he left King Agenor 's palace -- for the tears that he had shed , on parting with Phoenix , and Cilix , and Thasus -- for the heart-breakings that had made the whole world seem dismal to him over his dear mother 's grave .
But , as Cadmus advanced to meet the beautiful stranger , he saw that her features were unknown to him , although , in the little time that it required to tread along the hall , he had already felt a sympathy betwixt himself and her .
`` No , Cadmus , '' said the same voice that had spoken to him in the field of the armed men , `` this is not that dear sister Europa whom you have sought so faithfully all over the wide world .
This is Harmonia , a daughter of the sky , who is given you instead of sister , and brothers , and friend , and mother .
You will find all those dear ones in her alone . ''
So King Cadmus dwelt in the palace , with his new friend Harmonia , and found a great deal of comfort in his magnificent abode , but would doubtless have found as much , if not more , in the humblest cottage by the wayside .
Before many years went by , there was a group of rosy little children -LRB- but how they came thither has always been a mystery to me -RRB- sporting in the great hall , and on the marble steps of the palace , and running joyfully to meet King Cadmus when affairs of state left him at leisure to play with them .
They called him father , and Queen Harmonia mother .
The five old soldiers of the dragon 's teeth grew very fond of these small urchins , and were never weary of showing them how to shoulder sticks , flourish wooden swords , and march in military order , blowing a penny trumpet , or beating an abominable rub-a-dub upon a little drum .
But King Cadmus , lest there should be too much of the dragon 's tooth in his children 's disposition , used to find time from his kingly duties to teach them their A B C -- which he invented for their benefit , and for which many little people , I am afraid , are not half so grateful to him as they ought to be .
CIRCE 'S PALACE .
Some of you have heard , no doubt , of the wise King Ulysses , and how he went to the siege of Troy , and how , after that famous city was taken and burned , he spent ten long years in trying to get back again to his own little kingdom of Ithaca .
At one time in the course of this weary voyage , he arrived at an island that looked very green and pleasant , but the name of which was unknown to him .
For , only a little while before he came thither , he had met with a terrible hurricane , or rather a great many hurricanes at once , which drove his fleet of vessels into a strange part of the sea , where neither himself nor any of his mariners had ever sailed .
This misfortune was entirely owing to the foolish curiosity of his shipmates , who , while Ulysses lay asleep , had untied some very bulky leathern bags , in which they supposed a valuable treasure to be concealed .
But in each of these stout bags , King Aeolus , the ruler of the winds , had tied up a tempest , and had given it to Ulysses to keep in order that he might be sure of a favorable passage homeward to Ithaca ; and when the strings were loosened , forth rushed the whistling blasts , like air out of a blown bladder , whitening the sea with foam , and scattering the vessels nobody could tell whither .
Immediately after escaping from this peril , a still greater one had befallen him .
Scudding before the hurricane , he reached a place , which , as he afterwards found , was called Laestrygonia , where some monstrous giants had eaten up many of his companions , and had sunk every one of his vessels , except that in which he himself sailed , by flinging great masses of rock at them , from the cliffs along the shore .
After going through such troubles as these , you can not wonder that King Ulysses was glad to moor his tempest-beaten bark in a quiet cove of the green island , which I began with telling you about .
But he had encountered so many dangers from giants , and one-eyed Cyclops , and monsters of the sea and land , that he could not help dreading some mischief , even in this pleasant and seemingly solitary spot .
For two days , therefore , the poor weather-worn voyagers kept quiet , and either staid on board of their vessel , or merely crept along under the cliffs that bordered the shore ; and to keep themselves alive , they dug shellfish out of the sand , and sought for any little rill of fresh water that might be running towards the sea .
Before the two days were spent , they grew very weary of this kind of life ; for the followers of King Ulysses , as you will find it important to remember , were terrible gormandizers , and pretty sure to grumble if they missed their regulars meals , and their irregular ones besides .
Their stock of provisions was quite exhausted , and even the shellfish began to get scarce , so that they had now to choose between starving to death or venturing into the interior of the island , where perhaps some huge three-headed dragon , or other horrible monster , had his den .
Such misshapen creatures were very numerous in those days ; and nobody ever expected to make a voyage , or take a journey , without running more or less risk of being devoured by them .
But King Ulysses was a bold man as well as a prudent one ; and on the third morning he determined to discover what sort of a place the island was , and whether it were possible to obtain a supply of food for the hungry mouths of his companions .
So , taking a spear in his hand , he clambered to the summit of a cliff , and gazed round about him .
At a distance , towards the center of the island , he beheld the stately towers of what seemed to be a palace , built of snow-white marble , and rising in the midst of a grove of lofty trees .
The thick branches of these trees stretched across the front of the edifice , and more than half concealed it , although , from the portion which he saw , Ulysses judged it to be spacious and exceedingly beautiful , and probably the residence of some great nobleman or prince .
A blue smoke went curling up from the chimney , and was almost the pleasantest part of the spectacle to Ulysses .
For , from the abundance of this smoke , it was reasonable to conclude that there was a good fire in the kitchen , and that , at dinner-time , a plentiful banquet would be served up to the inhabitants of the palace , and to whatever guests might happen to drop in .
With so agreeable a prospect before him , Ulysses fancied that he could not do better than go straight to the palace gate , and tell the master of it that there was a crew of poor shipwrecked mariners , not far off , who had eaten nothing for a day or two , save a few clams and oysters , and would therefore be thankful for a little food .
And the prince or nobleman must be a very stingy curmudgeon , to be sure , if , at least , when his own dinner was over , he would not bid them welcome to the broken victuals from the table .
Pleasing himself with this idea , King Ulysses had made a few steps in the direction of the palace , when there was a great twittering and chirping from the branch of a neighboring tree .
A moment afterwards , a bird came flying towards him , and hovered in the air , so as almost to brush his face with its wings .
It was a very pretty little bird , with purple wings and body , and yellow legs , and a circle of golden feathers round its neck , and on its head a golden tuft , which looked like a king 's crown in miniature .
Ulysses tried to catch the bird .
But it fluttered nimbly out of his reach , still chirping in a piteous tone , as if it could have told a lamentable story , had it only been gifted with human language .
And when he attempted to drive it away , the bird flew no farther than the bough of the next tree , and again came fluttering about his head , with its doleful chirp , as soon as he showed a purpose of going forward .
`` Have you anything to tell me , little bird ? ''
asked Ulysses .
And he was ready to listen attentively to whatever the bird might communicate ; for , at the siege of Troy , and elsewhere , he had known such odd things to happen , that he would not have considered it much out of the common run had this little feathered creature talked as plainly as himself .
`` Peep ! ''
said the bird , `` peep , peep , pe -- weep ! ''
And nothing else would it say , but only , `` Peep , peep , pe -- weep ! ''
in a melancholy cadence , and over and over and over again .
As often as Ulysses moved forward , however , the bird showed the greatest alarm , and did its best to drive him back , with the anxious flutter of its purple wings .
Its unaccountable behavior made him conclude , at last , that the bird knew of some danger that awaited him , and which must needs be very terrible , beyond all question , since it moved even a little fowl to feel compassion for a human being .
So he resolved , for the present , to return to the vessel , and tell his companions what he had seen .
This appeared to satisfy the bird .
As soon as Ulysses turned back , it ran up the trunk of a tree , and began to pick insects out of the bark with its long , sharp bill ; for it was a kind of woodpecker , you must know , and had to get its living in the same manner as other birds of that species .
But every little while , as it pecked at the bark of the tree , the purple bird bethought itself of some secret sorrow , and repeated its plaintive note of `` Peep , peep , pe -- weep ! ''
On his way to the shore , Ulysses had the good luck to kill a large stag by thrusting his spear into his back .
Taking it on his shoulders -LRB- for he was a remarkably strong man -RRB- , he lugged it along with him , and flung it down before his hungry companions .
I have already hinted to you what gormandizers some of the comrades of King Ulysses were .
From what is related of them , I reckon that their favorite diet was pork , and that they had lived upon it until a good part of their physical substance was swine 's flesh , and their tempers and dispositions were very much akin to the hog .
A dish of venison , however , was no unacceptable meal to them , especially after feeding so long on oysters and clams .
So , beholding the dead stag , they felt of its ribs , in a knowing way , and lost no time in kindling a fire of driftwood , to cook it .
The rest of the day was spent in feasting ; and if these enormous eaters got up from table at sunset , it was only because they could not scrape another morsel off the poor animal 's bones .
The next morning , their appetites were as sharp as ever .
They looked at Ulysses , as if they expected him to clamber up the cliff again , and come back with another fat deer upon his shoulders .
Instead of setting out , however , he summoned the whole crew together , and told them it was in vain to hope that he could kill a stag every day for their dinner , and therefore it was advisable to think of some other mode of satisfying their hunger .
`` Now , '' said he , `` when I was on the cliff , yesterday , I discovered that this island is inhabited .
At a considerable distance from the shore stood a marble palace , which appeared to be very spacious , and had a great deal of smoke curling out of one of its chimneys . ''
`` Aha ! ''
muttered some of his companions , smacking their lips .
`` That smoke must have come from the kitchen fire .
There was a good dinner on the spit ; and no doubt there will be as good a one to-day . ''
`` But , '' continued the wise Ulysses , `` you must remember , my good friends , our misadventure in the cavern of one-eyed Polyphemus , the Cyclops !
Instead of his ordinary milk diet , did he not eat up two of our comrades for his supper , and a couple more for breakfast , and two at his supper again ?
Methinks I see him yet , the hideous monster , scanning us with that great red eye , in the middle of his forehead , to single out the fattest .
And then , again , only a few days ago , did we not fall into the hands of the king of the Laestrygons , and those other horrible giants , his subjects , who devoured a great many more of us than are now left ?
To tell you the truth , if we go to yonder palace , there can be no question that we shall make our appearance at the dinner table ; but whether seated as guests , or served up as food , is a point to be seriously considered . ''
`` Either way , '' murmured some of the hungriest of the crew ; `` it will be better than starvation ; particularly if one could be sure of being well fattened beforehand , and daintily cooked afterwards . ''
`` That is a matter of taste , '' said King Ulysses , `` and , for my own part , neither the most careful fattening nor the daintiest of cookery would reconcile me to being dished at last .
My proposal is , therefore , that we divide ourselves into two equal parties , and ascertain , by drawing lots , which of the two shall go to the palace , and beg for food and assistance .
If these can be obtained , all is well .
If not , and if the inhabitants prove as inhospitable as Polyphemus , or the Laestrygons , then there will but half of us perish , and the remainder may set sail and escape . ''
As nobody objected to this scheme , Ulysses proceeded to count the whole band , and found that there were forty-six men , including himself .
He then numbered off twenty-two of them , and put Eurylochus -LRB- who was one of his chief officers , and second only to himself in sagacity -RRB- at their head .
Ulysses took command of the remaining twenty-two men , in person .
Then , taking off his helmet , he put two shells into it , on one of which was written , `` Go , '' and on the other `` Stay . ''
Another person now held the helmet , while Ulysses and Eurylochus drew out each a shell ; and the word `` Go '' was found written on that which Eurylochus had drawn .
In this manner , it was decided that Ulysses and his twenty-two men were to remain at the seaside until the other party should have found out what sort of treatment they might expect at the mysterious palace .
As there was no help for it , Eurylochus immediately set forth at the head of his twenty-two followers , who went off in a very melancholy state of mind , leaving their friends in hardly better spirits than themselves .
No sooner had they clambered up the cliff , than they discerned the tall marble towers of the palace , ascending , as white as snow , out of the lovely green shadow of the trees which surrounded it .
A gush of smoke came from a chimney in the rear of the edifice .
This vapor rose high in the air , and , meeting with a breeze , was wafted seaward , and made to pass over the heads of the hungry mariners .
When people 's appetites are keen , they have a very quick scent for anything savory in the wind .
`` That smoke comes from the kitchen ! ''
cried one of them , turning up his nose as high as he could , and snuffing eagerly .
`` And , as sure as I 'm a half-starved vagabond , I smell roast meat in it . ''
`` Pig , roast pig ! ''
said another .
`` Ah , the dainty little porker .
My mouth waters for him . ''
`` Let us make haste , '' cried the others , `` or we shall be too late for the good cheer ! ''
But scarcely had they made half a dozen steps from the edge of the cliff , when a bird came fluttering to meet them .
It was the same pretty little bird , with the purple wings and body , the yellow legs , the golden collar round its neck , and the crown-like tuft upon its head , whose behavior had so much surprised Ulysses .
It hovered about Eurylochus , and almost brushed his face with its wings .
`` Peep , peep , pe -- weep ! ''
chirped the bird .
So plaintively intelligent was the sound , that it seemed as if the little creature were going to break its heart with some mighty secret that it had to tell , and only this one poor note to tell it with .
`` My pretty bird , '' said Eurylochus -- for he was a wary person , and let no token of harm escape his notice -- `` my pretty bird , who sent you hither ?
And what is the message which you bring ? ''
`` Peep , peep , pe -- weep ! ''
replied the bird , very sorrowfully .
Then it flew towards the edge of the cliff , and looked around at them , as if exceedingly anxious that they should return whence they came .
Eurylochus and a few of the others were inclined to turn back .
They could not help suspecting that the purple bird must be aware of something mischievous that would befall them at the palace , and the knowledge of which affected its airy spirit with a human sympathy and sorrow .
But the rest of the voyagers , snuffing up the smoke from the palace kitchen , ridiculed the idea of returning to the vessel .
One of them -LRB- more brutal than his fellows , and the most notorious gormandizer in the crew -RRB- said such a cruel and wicked thing , that I wonder the mere thought did not turn him into a wild beast , in shape , as he already was in his nature .
`` This troublesome and impertinent little fowl , '' said he , `` would make a delicate titbit to begin dinner with .
Just one plump morsel , melting away between the teeth .
If he comes within my reach , I 'll catch him , and give him to the palace cook to be roasted on a skewer . ''
The words were hardly out of his mouth , before the purple bird flew away , crying , `` Peep , peep , pe -- weep , '' more dolorously than ever .
`` That bird , '' remarked Eurylochus , `` knows more than we do about what awaits us at the palace . ''
`` Come on , then , '' cried his comrades , `` and we 'll soon know as much as he does . ''
The party , accordingly , went onward through the green and pleasant wood .
Every little while they caught new glimpses of the marble palace , which looked more and more beautiful the nearer they approached it .
They soon entered a broad pathway , which seemed to be very neatly kept , and which went winding along , with streaks of sunshine falling across it and specks of light quivering among the deepest shadows that fell from the lofty trees .
It was bordered , too , with a great many sweet-smelling flowers , such as the mariners had never seen before .
So rich and beautiful they were , that , if the shrubs grew wild here , and were native in the soil , then this island was surely the flower garden of the whole earth ; or , if transplanted from some other clime , it must have been from the Happy Islands that lay towards the golden sunset .
`` There has been a great deal of pains foolishly wasted on these flowers , '' observed one of the company ; and I tell you what he said , that you may keep in mind what gormandizers they were .
`` For my part , if I were the owner of the palace , I would bid my gardener cultivate nothing but savory pot herbs to make a stuffing for roast meat , or to flavor a stew with . ''
`` Well said ! ''
cried the others .
`` But I 'll warrant you there 's a kitchen garden in the rear of the palace . ''
At one place they came to a crystal spring , and paused to drink at it for want of liquor which they liked better .
Looking into its bosom , they beheld their own faces dimly reflected , but so extravagantly distorted by the gush and motion of the water , that each one of them appeared to be laughing at himself and all his companions .
So ridiculous were these images of themselves , indeed , that they did really laugh aloud , and could hardly be grave again as soon as they wished .
And after they had drank , they grew still merrier than before .
`` It has a twang of the wine cask in it , '' said one , smacking his lips .
`` Make haste ! ''
cried his fellows : `` we 'll find the wine cask itself at the palace , and that will be better than a hundred crystal fountains . ''
Then they quickened their pace , and capered for joy at the thought of the savory banquet at which they hoped to be guests .
But Eurylochus told them that he felt as if he were walking in a dream .
`` If I am really awake , '' continued he , `` then , in my opinion , we are on the point of meeting with some stranger adventure than any that befell us in the cave of Polyphemus , or among the gigantic man-eating Laestrygons , or in the windy palace of King Aeolus , which stands on a brazen-walled island .
This kind of dreamy feeling always comes over me before any wonderful occurrence .
If you take my advice , you will turn back . ''
`` No , no , '' answered his comrades , snuffing the air , in which the scent from the palace kitchen was now very perceptible .
`` We would not turn back , though we were certain that the king of the Laestrygons , as big as a mountain , would sit at the head of the table , and huge Polyphemus , the one-eyed Cyclops , at its foot . ''
At length they came within full sight of the palace , which proved to be very large and lofty , with a great number of airy pinnacles upon its roof .
Though it was midday , and the sun shone brightly over the marble front , yet its snowy whiteness , and its fantastic style of architecture , made it look unreal , like the frost work on a window pane , or like the shapes of castles which one sees among the clouds by moonlight .
But , just then , a puff of wind brought down the smoke of the kitchen chimney among them , and caused each man to smell the odor of the dish that he liked best ; and , after scenting it , they thought everything else moonshine , and nothing real save this palace , and save the banquet that was evidently ready to be served up in it .
So they hastened their steps towards the portal , but had not got half way across the wide lawn , when a pack of lions , tigers , and wolves came bounding to meet them .
The terrified mariners started back , expecting no better fate than to be torn to pieces and devoured .
To their surprise and joy , however , these wild beasts merely capered around them , wagging their tails , offering their heads to be stroked and patted , and behaving just like so many well-bred house dogs , when they wish to express their delight at meeting their master , or their master 's friends .
The biggest lion licked the feet of Eurylochus ; and every other lion , and every wolf and tiger , singled out one of his two and twenty followers , whom the beast fondled as if he loved him better than a beef bone .
But , for all that , Eurylochus imagined that he saw something fierce and savage in their eyes ; nor would he have been surprised , at any moment , to feel the big lion 's terrible claws , or to see each of the tigers make a deadly spring , or each wolf leap at the throat of the man whom he had fondled .
Their mildness seemed unreal , and a mere freak ; but their savage nature was as true as their teeth and claws .
Nevertheless , the men went safely across the lawn with the wild beasts frisking about them , and doing no manner of harm ; although , as they mounted the steps of the palace , you might possibly have heard a low growl , particularly from the wolves ; as if they thought it a pity , after all , to let the strangers pass without so much as tasting what they were made of .
Eurylochus and his followers now passed under a lofty portal , and looked through the open doorway into the interior of the palace .
The first thing that they saw was a spacious hall , and a fountain in the middle of it , gushing up towards the ceiling out of a marble basin , and falling back into it with a continual plash .
The water of this fountain , as it spouted upward , was constantly taking new shapes , not very distinctly , but plainly enough for a nimble fancy to recognize what they were .
Now it was the shape of a man in a long robe , the fleecy whiteness of which was made out of the fountain 's spray ; now it was a lion , or a tiger , or a wolf , or an ass , or , as often as anything else , a hog , wallowing in the marble basin as if it were his sty .
It was either magic or some very curious machinery that caused the gushing waterspout to assume all these forms .
But , before the strangers had time to look closely at this wonderful sight , their attention was drawn off by a very sweet and agreeable sound .
A woman 's voice was singing melodiously in another room of the palace , and with her voice was mingled the noise of a loom , at which she was probably seated , weaving a rich texture of cloth , and intertwining the high and low sweetness of her voice into a rich tissue of harmony .
By and by , the song came to an end ; and then , all at once , there were several feminine voices , talking airily and cheerfully , with now and then a merry burst of laughter , such as you may always hear when three or four young women sit at work together .
`` What a sweet song that was ! ''
exclaimed one of the voyagers .
`` Too sweet , indeed , '' answered Eurylochus , shaking his head .
`` Yet it was not so sweet as the song of the Sirens , those bird-like damsels who wanted to tempt us on the rocks , so that our vessel might be wrecked , and our bones left whitening along the shore . ''
`` But just listen to the pleasant voices of those maidens , and that buzz of the loom , as the shuttle passes to and fro , '' said another comrade .
`` What a domestic , household , home-like sound it is !
Ah , before that weary siege of Troy , I used to hear the buzzing loom and the women 's voices under my own roof .
Shall I never hear them again ?
nor taste those nice little savory dishes which my dearest wife knew how to serve up ? ''
`` Tush !
we shall fare better here , '' said another .
`` But how innocently those women are babbling together , without guessing that we overhear them !
And mark that richest voice of all , so pleasant and so familiar , but which yet seems to have the authority of a mistress among them .
Let us show ourselves at once .
What harm can the lady of the palace and her maidens do to mariners and warriors like us ? ''
`` Remember , '' said Eurylochus , `` that it was a young maiden who beguiled three of our friends into the palace of the king of the Laestrygons , who ate up one of them in the twinkling of an eye . ''
No warning or persuasion , however , had any effect on his companions .
They went up to a pair of folding doors at the farther end of the hall , and throwing them wide open , passed into the next room .
Eurylochus , meanwhile , had stepped behind a pillar .
In the short moment while the folding doors opened and closed again , he caught a glimpse of a very beautiful woman rising from the loom , and coming to meet the poor weather-beaten wanderers , with a hospitable smile , and her hand stretched out in welcome .
There were four other young women , who joined their hands and danced merrily forward , making gestures of obeisance to the strangers .
They were only less beautiful than the lady who seemed to be their mistress .
Yet Eurylochus fancied that one of them had sea-green hair , and that the close-fitting bodice of a second looked like the bark of a tree , and that both the others had something odd in their aspect , although he could not quite determine what it was , in the little while that he had to examine them .
The folding doors swung quickly back , and left him standing behind the pillar , in the solitude of the outer hall .
There Eurylochus waited until he was quite weary , and listened eagerly to every sound , but without hearing anything that could help him to guess what had become of his friends .
Footsteps , it is true , seemed to be passing and repassing , in other parts of the palace .
Then there was a clatter of silver dishes , or golden ones , which made him imagine a rich feast in a splendid banqueting hall .
But by and by he heard a tremendous grunting and squealing , and then a sudden scampering , like that of small , hard hoofs over a marble floor , while the voices of the mistress and her four handmaidens were screaming all together , in tones of anger and derision .
Eurylochus could not conceive what had happened , unless a drove of swine had broken into the palace , attracted by the smell of the feast .
Chancing to cast his eyes at the fountain , he saw that it did not shift its shape , as formerly , nor looked either like a long-robed man , or a lion , a tiger , a wolf , or an ass .
It looked like nothing but a hog , which lay wallowing in the marble basin , and filled it from brim to brim .
But we must leave the prudent Eurylochus waiting in the outer hall , and follow his friends into the inner secrecy of the palace .
As soon as the beautiful woman saw them , she arose from the loom , as I have told you , and came forward , smiling , and stretching out her hand .
She took the hand of the foremost among them , and bade him and the whole party welcome .
`` You have been long expected , my good friends , '' said she .
`` I and my maidens are well acquainted with you , although you do not appear to recognize us .
Look at this piece of tapestry , and judge if your faces must not have been familiar to us . ''
So the voyagers examined the web of cloth which the beautiful woman had been weaving in her loom ; and , to their vast astonishment , they saw their own figures perfectly represented in different colored threads .
It was a life-like picture of their recent adventures , showing them in the cave of Polyphemus , and how they had put out his one great moony eye ; while in another part of the tapestry they were untying the leathern bags , puffed out with contrary winds ; and farther on , they beheld themselves scampering away from the gigantic king of the Laestrygons , who had caught one of them by the leg .
Lastly , there they were , sitting on the desolate shore of this very island , hungry and downcast , and looking ruefully at the bare bones of the stag which they devoured yesterday .
This was as far as the work had yet proceeded ; but when the beautiful woman should again sit down at her loom , she would probably make a picture of what had since happened to the strangers , and of what was now going to happen .
`` You see , '' she said , `` that I know all about your troubles ; and you can not doubt that I desire to make you happy for as long a time as you may remain with me .
For this purpose , my honored guests , I have ordered a banquet to be prepared .
Fish , fowl , and flesh , roasted , and in luscious stews , and seasoned , I trust , to all your tastes , are ready to be served up .
If your appetites tell you it is dinner time , then come with me to the festal saloon . ''
At this kind invitation , the hungry mariners were quite overjoyed ; and one of them , taking upon himself to be spokesman , assured their hospitable hostess that any hour of the day was dinner time with them , whenever they could get flesh to put in the pot , and fire to boil it with .
So the beautiful woman led the way ; and the four maidens -LRB- one of them had sea-green hair , another a bodice of oak bark , a third sprinkled a shower of water drops from her fingers ' ends , and the fourth had some other oddity , which I have forgotten -RRB- , all these followed behind , and hurried the guests along , until they entered a magnificent saloon .
It was built in a perfect oval , and lighted from a crystal dome above .
Around the walls were ranged two and twenty thrones , overhung by canopies of crimson and gold , and provided with the softest of cushions , which were tasselled and fringed with gold cord .
Each of the strangers was invited to sit down ; and there they were , two and twenty storm-beaten mariners , in worn and tattered garb , sitting on two and twenty cushioned and canopied thrones , so rich and gorgeous that the proudest monarch had nothing more splendid in his stateliest hall .
Then you might have seen the guests nodding , winking with one eye , and leaning from one throne to another , to communicate their satisfaction in hoarse whispers .
`` Our good hostess has made kings of us all , '' said one .
`` Ha !
do you smell the feast ?
I 'll engage it will be fit to set before two and twenty kings . ''
`` I hope , '' said another , `` it will be , mainly , good substantial joints , sirloins , spareribs , and hinder quarters , without too many kickshaws .
If I thought the good lady would not take it amiss , I should call for a fat slice of fried bacon to begin with . ''
Ah , the gluttons and gormandizers !
You see how it was with them .
In the loftiest seats of dignity , on royal thrones , they could think of nothing but their greedy appetite , which was the portion of their nature that they shared with wolves and swine ; so that they resembled those vilest of animals far more than they did kings -- if , indeed , kings were what they ought to be .
But the beautiful woman now clapped her hands ; and immediately there entered a train of two and twenty serving man , bringing dishes of the richest food , all hot from the kitchen fire , and sending up such a steam that it hung like a cloud below the crystal dome of the saloon .
An equal number of attendants brought great flagons of wine , of various kinds , some of which sparkled as it was poured out , and went bubbling down the throat ; while , of other sorts , the purple liquor was so clear that you could see the wrought figures at the bottom of the goblet .
While the servants supplied the two and twenty guests with food and drink , the hostess and her four maidens went from one throne to another , exhorting them to eat their fill , and to quaff wine abundantly , and thus to recompense themselves , at this one banquet , for the many days when they had gone without a dinner .
But whenever the mariners were not looking at them -LRB- which was pretty often , as they looked chiefly into the basins and platters -RRB- , the beautiful woman and her damsels turned aside , and laughed .
Even the servants , as they knelt down to present the dishes , might be seen to grin and sneer , while the guests were helping themselves to the offered dainties .
And , once in a while , the strangers seemed to taste something that they did not like .
`` Here is an odd kind of spice in this dish , '' said one .
`` I ca n't say it quite suits my palate .
Down it goes , however . ''
`` Send a good draught of wine down your throat , '' said his comrade on the next throne .
`` That is the stuff to make this sort of cookery relish well .
Though I must needs say , the wine has a queer taste too .
But the more I drink of it , the better I like the flavor . ''
Whatever little fault they might find with the dishes , they sat at dinner a prodigiously long while ; and it would really have made you ashamed to see how they swilled down the liquor and gobbled up the food .
They sat on golden thrones , to be sure ; but they behaved like pigs in a sty ; and , if they had had their wits about them , they might have guessed that this was the opinion of their beautiful hostess and her maidens .
It brings a blush into my face to reckon up , in my own mind , what mountains of meat and pudding , and what gallons of wine , these two and twenty guzzlers and gormandizers ate and drank .
They forgot all about their homes , and their wives and children , and all about Ulysses , and everything else , except this banquet , at which they wanted to keep feasting forever .
But at length they began to give over , from mere incapacity to hold any more .
`` That last bit of fat is too much for me , '' said one .
`` And I have not room for another morsel , '' said his next neighbor , heaving a sigh .
`` What a pity !
My appetite is as sharp as ever . ''
In short , they all left off eating , and leaned back on their thrones , with such a stupid and helpless aspect as made them ridiculous to behold .
When their hostess saw this , she laughed aloud ; so did her four damsels ; so did the two and twenty serving men that bore the dishes , and their two and twenty fellows that poured out the wine .
And the louder they all laughed , the more stupid and helpless did the two and twenty gormandizers look .
Then the beautiful woman took her stand in the middle of the saloon , and stretching out a slender rod -LRB- it had been all the while in her hand , although they never noticed it till this moment -RRB- , she turned it from one guest to another , until each had felt it pointed at himself .
Beautiful as her face was , and though there was a smile on it , it looked just as wicked and mischievous as the ugliest serpent that ever was seen ; and fat-witted as the voyagers had made themselves , they began to suspect that they had fallen into the power of an evil-minded enchantress .
`` Wretches , '' cried she , `` you have abused a lady 's hospitality ; and in this princely saloon your behavior has been suited to a hog-pen .
You are already swine in everything but the human form , which you disgrace , and which I myself should be ashamed to keep a moment longer , were you to share it with me .
But it will require only the slightest exercise of magic to make the exterior conform to the hoggish disposition .
Assume your proper shapes , gormandizers , and begone to the sty ! ''
Uttering these last words , she waved her wand ; and stamping her foot imperiously , each of the guests was struck aghast at beholding , instead of his comrades in human shape , one and twenty hogs sitting on the same number of golden thrones .
Each man -LRB- as he still supposed himself to be -RRB- essayed to give a cry of surprise , but found that he could merely grunt , and that , in a word , he was just such another beast as his companions .
It looked so intolerably absurd to see hogs on cushioned thrones , that they made haste to wallow down upon all fours , like other swine .
They tried to groan and beg for mercy , but forthwith emitted the most awful grunting and squealing that ever came out of swinish throats .
They would have wrung their hands in despair , but , attempting to do so , grew all the more desperate for seeing themselves squatted on their hams , and pawing the air with their fore trotters .
Dear me !
what pendulous ears they had !
what little red eyes , half buried in fat !
and what long snouts , instead of Grecian noses !
But brutes as they certainly were , they yet had enough of human nature in them to be shocked at their own hideousness ; and still intending to groan , they uttered a viler grunt and squeal than before .
So harsh and ear-piercing it was , that you would have fancied a butcher was sticking his knife into each of their throats , or , at the very least , that somebody was pulling every hog by his funny little twist of a tail .
`` Begone to your sty ! ''
cried the enchantress , giving them some smart strokes with her wand ; and then she turned to the serving men -- `` Drive out these swine , and throw down some acorns for them to eat . ''
The door of the saloon being flung open , the drove of hogs ran in all directions save the right one , in accordance with their hoggish perversity , but were finally driven into the back yard of the palace .
It was a sight to bring tears into one 's eyes -LRB- and I hope none of you will be cruel enough to laugh at it -RRB- , to see the poor creatures go snuffing along , picking up here a cabbage leaf and there a turnip top , and rooting their noses in the earth for whatever they could find .
In their sty , moreover , they behaved more piggishly than the pigs that had been born so ; for they bit and snorted at one another , put their feet in the trough , and gobbled up their victuals in a ridiculous hurry ; and , when there was nothing more to be had , they made a great pile of themselves among some unclean straw , and fell fast asleep .
If they had any human reason left , it was just enough to keep them wondering when they should be slaughtered , and what quality of bacon they should make .
Meantime , as I told you before , Eurylochus had waited , and waited , and waited , in the entrance hall of the palace , without being able to comprehend what had befallen his friends .
At last , when the swinish uproar resounded through the palace , and when he saw the image of a hog in the marble basin , he thought it best to hasten back to the vessel , and inform the wise Ulysses of these marvelous occurrences .
So he ran as fast as he could down the steps , and never stopped to draw breath till he reached the shore .
`` Why do you come alone ? ''
asked King Ulysses , as soon as he saw him .
`` Where are your two and twenty comrades ? ''
At these questions , Eurylochus burst into tears .
`` Alas ! ''
he cried , `` I greatly fear that we shall never see one of their faces again . ''
Then he told Ulysses all that had happened , as far as he knew it , and added that he suspected the beautiful woman to be a vile enchantress , and the marble palace , magnificent as it looked , to be only a dismal cavern in reality .
As for his companions , he could not imagine what had become of them , unless they had been given to the swine to be devoured alive .
At this intelligence , all the voyagers were greatly affrighted .
But Ulysses lost no time in girding on his sword , and hanging his bow and quiver over his shoulders , and taking a spear in his right hand .
When his followers saw their wise leader making these preparations , they inquired whither he was going , and earnestly besought him not to leave them .
`` You are our king , '' cried they ; `` and what is more , you are the wisest man in the whole world , and nothing but your wisdom and courage can get us out of this danger .
If you desert us , and go to the enchanted palace , you will suffer the same fate as our poor companions , and not a soul of us will ever see our dear Ithaca again . ''
`` As I am your king , '' answered Ulysses , `` and wiser than any of you , it is therefore the more my duty to see what has befallen our comrades , and whether anything can yet be done to rescue them .
Wait for me here until tomorrow .
If I do not then return , you must hoist sail , and endeavor to find your way to our native land .
For my part , I am answerable for the fate of these poor mariners , who have stood by my side in battle , and been so often drenched to the skin , along with me , by the same tempestuous surges .
I will either bring them back with me , or perish . ''
Had his followers dared , they would have detained him by force .
But King Ulysses frowned sternly on them , and shook his spear , and bade them stop him at their peril .
Seeing him so determined , they let him go , and sat down on the sand , as disconsolate a set of people as could be , waiting and praying for his return .
It happened to Ulysses , just as before , that , when he had gone a few steps from the edge of the cliff , the purple bird came fluttering towards him , crying , `` Peep , peep , pe -- weep ! ''
and using all the art it could to persuade him to go no farther .
`` What mean you , little bird ? ''
cried Ulysses .
`` You are arrayed like a king in purple and gold , and wear a golden crown upon your head .
Is it because I too am a king , that you desire so earnestly to speak with me ?
If you can talk in human language , say what you would have me do . ''
`` Peep ! ''
answered the purple bird , very dolorously .
`` Peep , peep , pe -- we -- e! '' Certainly there lay some heavy anguish at the little bird 's heart ; and it was a sorrowful predicament that he could not , at least , have the consolation of telling what it was .
But Ulysses had no time to waste in trying to get at the mystery .
He therefore quickened his pace , and had gone a good way along the pleasant wood path , when there met him a young man of very brisk and intelligent aspect , and clad in a rather singular garb .
He wore a short cloak and a sort of cap that seemed to be furnished with a pair of wings ; and from the lightness of his step , you would have supposed that there might likewise be wings on his feet .
To enable him to walk still better -LRB- for he was always on one journey or another -RRB- he carried a winged staff , around which two serpents were wriggling and twisting .
In short , I have said enough to make you guess that it was Quicksilver ; and Ulysses -LRB- who knew him of old , and had learned a great deal of his wisdom from him -RRB- recognized him in a moment .
`` Whither are you going in such a hurry , wise Ulysses ? ''
asked Quicksilver .
`` Do you not know that this island is enchanted ?
The wicked enchantress -LRB- whose name is Circe , the sister of King Aetes -RRB- dwells in the marble palace which you see yonder among the trees .
By her magic arts she changes every human being into the brute , beast , or fowl whom he happens most to resemble . ''
`` That little bird , which met me at the edge of the cliff , '' exclaimed Ulysses ; `` was he a human being once ? ''
`` Yes , '' answered Quicksilver .
`` He was once a king , named Picus , and a pretty good sort of a king , too , only rather too proud of his purple robe , and his crown , and the golden chain about his neck ; so he was forced to take the shape of a gaudy-feathered bird .
The lions , and wolves , and tigers , who will come running to meet you , in front of the palace , were formerly fierce and cruel men , resembling in their disposition the wild beasts whose forms they now rightfully wear . ''
`` And my poor companions , '' said Ulysses .
`` Have they undergone a similar change , through the arts of this wicked Circe ? ''
`` You well know what gormandizers they were , '' replied Quicksilver ; and rogue that he was , he could not help laughing at the joke .
`` So you will not be surprised to hear that they have all taken the shapes of swine !
If Circe had never done anything worse , I really should not think her so very much to blame . ''
`` But can I do nothing to help them ? ''
inquired Ulysses .
`` It will require all your wisdom , '' said Quicksilver , `` and a little of my own into the bargain , to keep your royal and sagacious self from being transformed into a fox .
But do as I bid you ; and the matter may end better than it has begun . ''
While he was speaking , Quicksilver seemed to be in search of something ; he went stooping along the ground , and soon laid his hand on a little plant with a snow-white flower , which he plucked and smelt of .
Ulysses had been looking at that very spot only just before ; and it appeared to him that the plant had burst into full flower the instant when Quicksilver touched it with his fingers .
`` Take this flower , King Ulysses , '' said he .
`` Guard it as you do your eyesight ; for I can assure you it is exceedingly rare and precious , and you might seek the whole earth over without ever finding another like it .
Keep it in your hand , and smell of it frequently after you enter the palace , and while you are talking with the enchantress .
Especially when she offers you food , or a draught of wine out of her goblet , be careful to fill your nostrils with the flower 's fragrance .
Follow these directions , and you may defy her magic arts to change you into a fox . ''
Quicksilver then gave him some further advice how to behave , and bidding him be bold and prudent , again assured him that , powerful as Circe was , he would have a fair prospect of coming safely out of her enchanted palace .
After listening attentively , Ulysses thanked his good friend , and resumed his way .
But he had taken only a few steps , when , recollecting some other questions which he wished to ask , he turned round again , and beheld nobody on the spot where Quicksilver had stood ; for that winged cap of his , and those winged shoes , with the help of the winged staff , had carried him quickly out of sight .
When Ulysses reached the lawn , in front of the palace , the lions and other savage animals came bounding to meet him , and would have fawned upon him and licked his feet .
But the wise king struck at them with his long spear , and sternly bade them begone out of his path ; for he knew that they had once been bloodthirsty men , and would now tear him limb from limb , instead of fawning upon him , could they do the mischief that was in their hearts .
The wild beasts yelped and glared at him , and stood at a distance , while he ascended the palace steps .
On entering the hall , Ulysses saw the magic fountain in the center of it .
The up-gushing water had now again taken the shape of a man in a long , white , fleecy robe , who appeared to be making gestures of welcome .
The king likewise heard the noise of the shuttle in the loom and the sweet melody of the beautiful woman 's song , and then the pleasant voices of herself and the four maidens talking together , with peals of merry laughter intermixed .
But Ulysses did not waste much time in listening to the laughter or the song .
He leaned his spear against one of the pillars of the hall , and then , after loosening his sword in the scabbard , stepped boldly forward , and threw the folding doors wide open .
The moment she beheld his stately figure standing in the doorway , the beautiful woman rose from the loom , and ran to meet him with a glad smile throwing its sunshine over her face , and both her hands extended .
`` Welcome , brave stranger ! ''
cried she .
`` We were expecting you . ''
And the nymph with the sea-green hair made a courtesy down to the ground , and likewise bade him welcome ; so did her sister with the bodice of oaken bark , and she that sprinkled dew-drops from her fingers ' ends , and the fourth one with some oddity which I can not remember .
And Circe , as the beautiful enchantress was called -LRB- who had deluded so many persons that she did not doubt of being able to delude Ulysses , not imagining how wise he was -RRB- , again addressed him : `` Your companions , '' said she , `` have already been received into my palace , and have enjoyed the hospitable treatment to which the propriety of their behavior so well entitles them .
If such be your pleasure , you shall first take some refreshment , and then join them in the elegant apartment which they now occupy .
See , I and my maidens have been weaving their figures into this piece of tapestry . ''
She pointed to the web of beautifully-woven cloth in the loom .
Circe and the four nymphs must have been very diligently at work since the arrival of the mariners ; for a great many yards of tapestry had now been wrought , in addition to what I before described .
In this new part , Ulysses saw his two and twenty friends represented as sitting on cushions and canopied thrones , greedily devouring dainties , and quaffing deep draughts of wine .
The work had not yet gone any further .
O , no , indeed .
The enchantress was far too cunning to let Ulysses see the mischief which her magic arts had since brought upon the gormandizers .
`` As for yourself , valiant sir , '' said Circe , `` judging by the dignity of your aspect , I take you to be nothing less than a king .
Deign to follow me , and you shall be treated as befits your rank . ''
So Ulysses followed her into the oval saloon , where his two and twenty comrades had devoured the banquet , which ended so disastrously for themselves .
But , all this while , he had held the snow-white flower in his hand , and had constantly smelt of it while Circe was speaking ; and as he crossed the threshold of the saloon , he took good care to inhale several long and deep snuffs of its fragrance .
Instead of two and twenty thrones , which had before been ranged around the wall , there was now only a single throne , in the center of the apartment .
But this was surely the most magnificent seat that ever a king or an emperor reposed himself upon , all made of chased gold , studded with precious stones , with a cushion that looked like a soft heap of living roses , and overhung by a canopy of sunlight which Circe knew how to weave into drapery .
The enchantress took Ulysses by the hand , and made him sit down upon this dazzling throne .
Then , clapping her hands , she summoned the chief butler .
`` Bring hither , '' said she , `` the goblet that is set apart for kings to drink out of .
And fill it with the same delicious wine which my royal brother , King Aetes , praised so highly , when he last visited me with my fair daughter Medea .
That good and amiable child !
Were she now here , it would delight her to see me offering this wine to my honored guest . ''
But Ulysses , while the butler was gone for the wine , held the snow-white flower to his nose .
`` Is it a wholesome wine ? ''
he asked .
At this the four maidens tittered ; whereupon the enchantress looked round at them , with an aspect of severity .
`` It is the wholesomest juice that ever was squeezed out of the grape , '' said she ; `` for , instead of disguising a man , as other liquor is apt to do , it brings him to his true self , and shows him as he ought to be . ''
The chief butler liked nothing better than to see people turned into swine , or making any kind of a beast of themselves ; so he made haste to bring the royal goblet , filled with a liquid as bright as gold , and which kept sparkling upward , and throwing a sunny spray over the brim .
But , delightfully as the wine looked , it was mingled with the most potent enchantments that Circe knew how to concoct .
For every drop of the pure grape juice there were two drops of the pure mischief ; and the danger of the thing was , that the mischief made it taste all the better .
The mere smell of the bubbles , which effervesced at the brim , was enough to turn a man 's beard into pig 's bristles , or make a lion 's claws grow out of his fingers , or a fox 's brush behind him .
`` Drink , my noble guest , '' said Circe , smiling , as she presented him with the goblet .
`` You will find in this draught a solace for all your troubles . ''
King Ulysses took the goblet with his right hand , while with his left he held the snow-white flower to his nostrils , and drew in so long a breath that his lungs were quite filled with its pure and simple fragrance .
Then , drinking off all the wine , he looked the enchantress calmly in the face .
`` Wretch , '' cried Circe , giving him a smart stroke with her wand , `` how dare you keep your human shape a moment longer !
Take the form of the brute whom you most resemble .
If a hog , go join your fellow-swine in the sty ; if a lion , a wolf , a tiger , go howl with the wild beasts on the lawn ; if a fox , go exercise your craft in stealing poultry .
Thou hast quaffed off my wine , and canst be man no longer . ''
But , such was the virtue of the snow-white flower , instead of wallowing down from his throne in swinish shape , or taking any other brutal form , Ulysses looked even more manly and king-like than before .
He gave the magic goblet a toss , and sent it clashing over the marble floor to the farthest end of the saloon .
Then , drawing his sword , he seized the enchantress by her beautiful ringlets , and made a gesture as if he meant to strike off her head at one blow .
`` Wicked Circe , '' cried he , in a terrible voice , `` this sword shall put an end to thy enchant meets .
Thou shalt die , vile wretch , and do no more mischief in the world , by tempting human beings into the vices which make beasts of them . ''
The tone and countenance of Ulysses were so awful , and his sword gleamed so brightly , and seemed to have so intolerably keen an edge , that Circe was almost killed by the mere fright , without waiting for a blow .
The chief butler scrambled out of the saloon , picking up the golden goblet as he went ; and the enchantress and the four maidens fell on their knees , wringing their hands , and screaming for mercy .
`` Spare me ! ''
cried Circe .
`` Spare me , royal and wise Ulysses .
For now I know that thou art he of whom Quicksilver forewarned me , the most prudent of mortals , against whom no enchantments can prevail .
Thou only couldst have conquered Circe .
Spare me , wisest of men .
I will show thee true hospitality , and even give myself to be thy slave , and this magnificent palace to be henceforth thy home . ''
The four nymphs , meanwhile , were making a most piteous ado ; and especially the ocean nymph , with the sea-green hair , wept a great deal of salt water , and the fountain nymph , besides scattering dewdrops from her fingers ' ends , nearly melted away into tears .
But Ulysses would not be pacified until Circe had taken a solemn oath to change back his companions , and as many others as he should direct , from their present forms of beast or bird into their former shapes of men .
`` On these conditions , '' said he , `` I consent to spare your life .
Otherwise you must die upon the spot . ''
With a drawn sword hanging over her , the enchantress would readily have consented to do as much good as she had hitherto done mischief , however little she might like such employment .
She therefore led Ulysses out of the back entrance of the palace , and showed him the swine in their sty .
There were about fifty of these unclean beasts in the whole herd ; and though the greater part were hogs by birth and education , there was wonderfully little difference to be seen betwixt them and their new brethren , who had so recently worn the human shape .
To speak critically , indeed , the latter rather carried the thing to excess , and seemed to make it a point to wallow in the miriest part of the sty , and otherwise to outdo the original swine in their own natural vocation .
When men once turn to brutes , the trifle of man 's wit that remains in them adds tenfold to their brutality .
The comrades of Ulysses , however , had not quite lost the remembrance of having formerly stood erect .
When he approached the sty , two and twenty enormous swine separated themselves from the herd , and scampered towards him , with such a chorus of horrible squealing as made him clap both hands to his ears .
And yet they did not seem to know what they wanted , nor whether they were merely hungry , or miserable from some other cause .
It was curious , in the midst of their distress , to observe them thrusting their noses into the mire , in quest of something to eat .
The nymph with the bodice of oaken bark -LRB- she was the hamadryad of an oak -RRB- threw a handful of acorns among them ; and the two and twenty hogs scrambled and fought for the prize , as if they had tasted not so much as a noggin of sour milk for a twelvemonth .
`` These must certainly be my comrades , '' said Ulysses .
`` I recognize their dispositions .
They are hardly worth the trouble of changing them into the human form again .
Nevertheless , we will have it done , lest their bad example should corrupt the other hogs .
Let them take their original shapes , therefore , Dame Circe , if your skill is equal to the task .
It will require greater magic , I trow , than it did to make swine of them . ''
So Circe waved her wand again , and repeated a few magic words , at the sound of which the two and twenty hogs pricked up their pendulous ears .
It was a wonder to behold how their snouts grew shorter and shorter , and their mouths -LRB- which they seemed to be sorry for , because they could not gobble so expeditiously -RRB- smaller and smaller , and how one and another began to stand upon his hind legs , and scratch his nose with his fore trotters .
At first the spectators hardly knew whether to call them hogs or men , but by and by came to the conclusion that they rather resembled the latter .
Finally , there stood the twenty-two comrades of Ulysses , looking pretty much the same as when they left the vessel .
You must not imagine , however , that the swinish quality had entirely gone out of them .
When once it fastens itself into a person 's character , it is very difficult getting rid of it .
This was proved by the hamadryad , who , being exceedingly fond of mischief , threw another handful of acorns before the twenty-two newly-restored people ; whereupon down they wallowed in a moment , and gobbled them up in a very shameful way .
Then , recollecting themselves , they scrambled to their feet , and looked more than commonly foolish .
`` Thanks , noble Ulysses ! ''
they cried .
`` From brute beasts you have restored us to the condition of men again . ''
`` Do not put yourselves to the trouble of thanking me , '' said the wise king .
`` I fear I have done but little for you . ''
To say the truth , there was a suspicious kind of a grunt in their voices , and , for a long time afterwards , they spoke gruffly , and were apt to set up a squeal .
`` It must depend on your own future behavior , '' added Ulysses , `` whether you do not find your way back to the sty . ''
At this moment , the note of a bird sounded from the branch of a neighboring tree .
`` Peep , peep , pe -- wee -- e! '' It was the purple bird , who , all this while , had been sitting over their heads , watching what was going forward , and hoping that Ulysses would remember how he had done his utmost to keep him and his followers out of harm 's way .
Ulysses ordered Circe instantly to make a king of this good little fowl , and leave him exactly as she found him .
Hardly were the words spoken , and before the bird had time to utter another `` pe -- weep , '' King Picus leaped down from the bough of a tree , as majestic a sovereign as any in the world , dressed in a long purple robe and gorgeous yellow stockings , with a splendidly wrought collar about his neck , and a golden crown upon his head .
He and King Ulysses exchanged with one another the courtesies which belong to their elevated rank .
But from that time forth , King Picus was no longer proud of his crown and his trappings of royalty , nor of the fact of his being a king ; he felt himself merely the upper servant of his people , and that it must be his life-long labor to make them better and happier .
As for the lions , tigers , and wolves -LRB- though Circe would have restored them to their former shapes at his slightest word -RRB- , Ulysses thought it advisable that they should remain as they now were , and thus give warning of their cruel dispositions , instead of going about under the guise of men , and pretending to human sympathies , while their hearts had the blood-thirstiness of wild beasts .
So he let them howl as much as they liked , but never troubled his head about them .
And , when everything was settled according to his pleasure , he sent to summon the remainder of his comrades , whom he had left at the sea-shore .
These being arrived , with the prudent Eurylochus at their head , they all made themselves comfortable in Circe 's enchanted palace , until quite rested and refreshed from the toils and hardships of their voyage .
THE POMEGRANATE SEEDS .
Mother Ceres was exceedingly fond of her daughter Proserpina , and seldom let her go alone into the fields .
But , just at the time when my story begins , the good lady was very busy , because she had the care of the wheat , and the Indian corn , and the rye and barley and , in short , of the crops of every kind , all over the earth ; and as the season had thus far been uncommonly backward , it was necessary to make the harvest ripen more speedily than usual .
So she put on her turban , made of poppies -LRB- a kind of flower which she was always noted for wearing -RRB- , and got into her car drawn by a pair of winged dragons , and was just ready to set off .
`` Dear mother , '' said Proserpina , `` I shall be very lonely while you are away .
May I not run down to the shore , and ask some of the sea nymphs to come up out of the waves and play with me ? ''
`` Yes , child , '' answered Mother Ceres .
`` The sea nymphs are good creatures , and will never lead you into any harm .
But you must take care not to stray away from them , nor go wandering about the fields by yourself .
Young girls , without their mothers to take care of them , are very apt to get into mischief . ''
The child promised to be as prudent as if she were a grown-up woman ; and , by the time the winged dragons had whirled the car out of sight , she was already on the shore , calling to the sea nymphs to come and play with her .
They knew Proserpina 's voice , and were not long in showing their glistening faces and sea-green hair above the water , at the bottom of which was their home .
They brought along with them a great many beautiful shells ; and sitting down on the moist sand , where the surf wave broke over them , they busied themselves in making a necklace , which they hung round Proserpina 's neck .
By way of showing her gratitude , the child besought them to go with her a little way into the fields , so that they might gather abundance of flowers , with which she would make each of her kind playmates a wreath .
`` O no , dear Proserpina , '' cried the sea nymphs ; `` we dare not go with you upon the dry land .
We are apt to grow faint , unless at every breath we can snuff up the salt breeze of the ocean .
And do n't you see how careful we are to let the surf wave break over us every moment or two , so as to keep ourselves comfortably moist ?
If it were not for that , we should look like bunches of uprooted seaweed dried in the sun .
`` It is a great pity , '' said Proserpina .
`` But do you wait for me here , and I will run and gather my apron full of flowers , and be back again before the surf wave has broken ten times over you .
I long to make you some wreaths that shall be as lovely as this necklace of many colored shells . ''
`` We will wait , then , '' answered the sea nymphs .
`` But while you are gone , we may as well lie down on a bank of soft sponge under the water .
The air to-day is a little too dry for our comfort .
But we will pop up our heads every few minutes to see if you are coming . ''
The young Proserpina ran quickly to a spot where , only the day before , she had seen a great many flowers .
These , however , were now a little past their bloom ; and wishing to give her friends the freshest and loveliest blossoms , she strayed farther into the fields , and found some that made her scream with delight .
Never had she met with such exquisite flowers before -- violets so large and fragrant -- roses with so rich and delicate a blush -- such superb hyacinths and such aromatic pinks -- and many others , some of which seemed to be of new shapes and colors .
Two or three times , moreover , she could not help thinking that a tuft of most splendid flowers had suddenly sprouted out of the earth before her very eyes , as if on purpose to tempt her a few steps farther .
Proserpina 's apron was soon filled , and brimming over with delightful blossoms .
She was on the point of turning back in order to rejoin the sea nymphs , and sit with them on the moist sands , all twining wreaths together .
But , a little farther on , what should she behold ?
It was a large shrub , completely covered with the most magnificent flowers in the world .
`` The darlings ! ''
cried Proserpina ; and then she thought to herself , `` I was looking at that spot only a moment ago .
How strange it is that I did not see the flowers ! ''
The nearer she approached the shrub , the more attractive it looked , until she came quite close to it ; and then , although its beauty was richer than words can tell , she hardly knew whether to like it or not .
It bore above a hundred flowers of the most brilliant hues , and each different from the others , but all having a kind of resemblance among themselves , which showed them to be sister blossoms .
But there was a deep , glossy luster on the leaves of the shrub , and on the petals of the flowers , that made Proserpina doubt whether they might not be poisonous .
To tell you the truth , foolish as it may seem , she was half inclined to turn round and run away .
`` What a silly child I am ! ''
thought she , taking courage .
`` It is really the most beautiful shrub that ever sprang out of the earth .
I will pull it up by the roots , and carry it home , and plant it in my mother 's garden . ''
Holding up her apron full of flowers with her left hand , Proserpina seized the large shrub with the other , and pulled , and pulled , but was hardly able to loosen the soil about its roots .
What a deep-rooted plant it was !
Again the girl pulled with all her might , and observed that the earth began to stir and crack to some distance around the stem .
She gave another pull , but relaxed her hold , fancying that there was a rumbling sound right beneath her feet .
Did the roots extend down into some enchanted cavern ?
Then laughing at herself for so childish a notion , she made another effort : up came the shrub , and Proserpina staggered back , holding the stem triumphantly in her hand , and gazing at the deep hole which its roots had left in the soil .
Much to her astonishment , this hole kept spreading wider and wider , and growing deeper and deeper , until it really seemed to have no bottom ; and all the while , there came a rumbling noise out of its depths , louder and louder , and nearer and nearer , and sounding like the tramp of horses ' hoofs and the rattling of wheels .
Too much frightened to run away , she stood straining her eyes into this wonderful cavity , and soon saw a team of four sable horses , snorting smoke out of their nostrils , and tearing their way out of the earth with a splendid golden chariot whirling at their heels .
They leaped out of the bottomless hole , chariot and all ; and there they were , tossing their black manes , flourishing their black tails , and curvetting with every one of their hoofs off the ground at once , close by the spot where Proserpina stood .
In the chariot sat the figure of a man , richly dressed , with a crown on his head , all flaming with diamonds .
He was of a noble aspect , and rather handsome , but looked sullen and discontented ; and he kept rubbing his eyes and shading them with his hand , as if he did not live enough in the sunshine to be very fond of its light .
As soon as this personage saw the affrighted Proserpina , he beckoned her to come a little nearer .
`` Do not be afraid , '' said he , with as cheerful a smile as he knew how to put on .
`` Come !
Will you not like to ride a little way with me , in my beautiful chariot ? ''
But Proserpina was so alarmed , that she wished for nothing but to get out of his reach .
And no wonder .
The stranger did not look remarkably good-natured , in spite of his smile ; and as for his voice , its tones were deep and stern , and sounded as much like the rumbling of an earthquake underground than anything else .
As is always the case with children in trouble , Proserpina 's first thought was to call for her mother .
`` Mother , Mother Ceres ! ''
cried she , all in a tremble .
`` Come quickly and save me . ''
But her voice was too faint for her mother to hear .
Indeed , it is most probable that Ceres was then a thousand miles off , making the corn grow in some far distant country .
Nor could it have availed her poor daughter , even had she been within hearing ; for no sooner did Proserpina begin to cry out , than the stranger leaped to the ground , caught the child in his arms , and again mounted the chariot , shook the reins , and shouted to the four black horses to set off .
They immediately broke into so swift a gallop , that it seemed rather like flying through the air than running along the earth .
In a moment , Proserpina lost sight of the pleasant vale of Enna , in which she had always dwelt .
Another instant , and even the summit of Mount Aetna had become so blue in the distance , that she could scarcely distinguish it from the smoke that gushed out of its crater .
But still the poor child screamed , and scattered her apron full of flowers along the way , and left a long cry trailing behind the chariot ; and many mothers , to whose ears it came , ran quickly to see if any mischief had befallen their children .
But Mother Ceres was a great way off , and could not hear the cry .
As they rode on , the stranger did his best to soothe her .
`` Why should you be so frightened , my pretty child ? ''
said he , trying to soften his rough voice .
`` I promise not to do you any harm .
What !
you have been gathering flowers ?
Wait till we come to my palace , and I will give you a garden full of prettier flowers than those , all made of pearls , and diamonds , and rubies .
Can you guess who I am ?
They call my name Pluto ; and I am the king of diamonds and all other precious stones .
Every atom of the gold and silver that lies under the earth belongs to me , to say nothing of the copper and iron , and of the coal mines , which supply me with abundance of fuel .
Do you see this splendid crown upon my head ?
You may have it for a plaything .
O , we shall be very good friends , and you will find me more agreeable than you expect , when once we get out of this troublesome sunshine . ''
`` Let me go home ! ''
cried Proserpina .
`` Let me go home ! ''
`` My home is better than your mother 's , '' answered King Pluto .
`` It is a palace , all made of gold , with crystal windows ; and because there is little or no sunshine thereabouts , the apartments are illuminated with diamond lamps .
You never saw anything half so magnificent as my throne .
If you like , you may sit down on it , and be my little queen , and I will sit on the footstool . ''
`` I do n't care for golden palaces and thrones , '' sobbed Proserpina .
`` Oh , my mother , my mother !
Carry me back to my mother ! ''
But King Pluto , as he called himself , only shouted to his steeds to go faster .
`` Pray do not be foolish , Proserpina , '' said he , in rather a sullen tone .
`` I offer you my palace and my crown , and all the riches that are under the earth ; and you treat me as if I were doing you an injury .
The one thing which my palace needs is a merry little maid , to run upstairs and down , and cheer up the rooms with her smile .
And this is what you must do for King Pluto . ''
`` Never ! ''
answered Proserpina , looking as miserable as she could .
`` I shall never smile again till you set me down at my mother 's door . ''
But she might just as well have talked to the wind that whistled past them , for Pluto urged on his horses , and went faster than ever .
Proserpina continued to cry out , and screamed so long and so loudly that her poor little voice was almost screamed away ; and when it was nothing but a whisper , she happened to cast her eyes over a great broad field of waving grain -- and whom do you think she saw ?
Who , but Mother Ceres , making the corn grow , and too busy to notice the golden chariot as it went rattling along .
The child mustered all her strength , and gave one more scream , but was out of sight before Ceres had time to turn her head .
King Pluto had taken a road which now began to grow excessively gloomy .
It was bordered on each side with rocks and precipices , between which the rumbling of the chariot wheels was reverberated with a noise like rolling thunder .
The trees and bushes that grew in the crevices of the rocks had very dismal foliage ; and by and by , although it was hardly noon , the air became obscured with a gray twilight .
The black horses had rushed along so swiftly , that they were already beyond the limits of the sunshine .
But the duskier it grew , the more did Pluto 's visage assume an air of satisfaction .
After all , he was not an ill-looking person , especially when he left off twisting his features into a smile that did not belong to them .
Proserpina peeped at his face through the gathering dusk , and hoped that he might not be so very wicked as she at first thought him .
`` Ah , this twilight is truly refreshing , '' said King Pluto , `` after being so tormented with that ugly and impertinent glare of the sun .
How much more agreeable is lamplight or torchlight , more particularly when reflected from diamonds !
It will be a magnificent sight , when we get to my palace . ''
`` Is it much farther ? ''
asked Proserpina .
`` And will you carry me back when I have seen it ? ''
`` We will talk of that by and by , '' answered Pluto .
`` We are just entering my dominions .
Do you see that tall gateway before us ?
When we pass those gates , we are at home .
And there lies my faithful mastiff at the threshold .
Cerberus !
Cerberus !
Come hither , my good dog ! ''
So saying , Pluto pulled at the reins , and stopped the chariot right between the tall , massive pillars of the gateway .
The mastiff of which he had spoken got up from the threshold , and stood on his hinder legs , so as to put his fore paws on the chariot wheel .
But , my stars , what a strange dog it was !
Why , he was a big , rough , ugly-looking monster , with three separate heads , and each of them fiercer than the two others ; but fierce as they were , King Pluto patted them all .
He seemed as fond of his three-headed dog as if it had been a sweet little spaniel , with silken ears and curly hair .
Cerberus , on the other hand , was evidently rejoiced to see his master , and expressed his attachment , as other dogs do , by wagging his tail at a great rate .
Proserpina 's eyes being drawn to it by its brisk motion , she saw that this tail was neither more nor less than a live dragon , with fiery eyes , and fangs that had a very poisonous aspect .
And while the three-headed Cerberus was fawning so lovingly on King Pluto , there was the dragon tail wagging against its will , and looking as cross and ill-natured as you can imagine , on its own separate account .
`` Will the dog bite me ? ''
asked Proserpina , shrinking closer to Pluto .
`` What an ugly creature he is ! ''
`` O , never fear , '' answered her companion .
`` He never harms people , unless they try to enter my dominions without being sent for , or to get away when I wish to keep them here .
Down , Cerberus !
Now , my pretty Proserpina , we will drive on . ''
On went the chariot , and King Pluto seemed greatly pleased to find himself once more in his own kingdom .
He drew Proserpina 's attention to the rich veins of gold that were to be seen among the rocks , and pointed to several places where one stroke of a pickaxe would loosen a bushel of diamonds .
All along the road , indeed , there were sparkling gems , which would have been of inestimable value above ground , but which here were reckoned of the meaner sort and hardly worth a beggar 's stooping for .
Not far from the gateway , they came to a bridge , which seemed to be built of iron .
Pluto stopped the chariot , and bade Proserpina look at the stream which was gliding so lazily beneath it .
Never in her life had she beheld so torpid , so black , so muddy-looking a stream ; its waters reflected no images of anything that was on the banks , and it moved as sluggishly as if it had quite forgotten which way it ought to flow , and had rather stagnate than flow either one way or the other .
`` This is the River Lethe , '' observed King Pluto .
`` Is it not a very pleasant stream ? ''
`` I think it a very dismal one , '' answered Proserpina .
`` It suits my taste , however , '' answered Pluto , who was apt to be sullen when anybody disagreed with him .
`` At all events , its water has one excellent quality ; for a single draught of it makes people forget every care and sorrow that has hitherto tormented them .
Only sip a little of it , my dear Proserpina , and you will instantly cease to grieve for your mother , and will have nothing in your memory that can prevent your being perfectly happy in my palace .
I will send for some , in a golden goblet , the moment we arrive . ''
`` O , no , no , no ! ''
cried Proserpina , weeping afresh .
`` I had a thousand times rather be miserable with remembering my mother , than be happy in forgetting her .
That dear , dear mother !
I never , never will forget her . ''
`` We shall see , '' said King Pluto .
`` You do not know what fine times we will have in my palace .
Here we are just at the portal .
These pillars are solid gold , I assure you . ''
He alighted from the chariot , and taking Proserpina in his arms , carried her up a lofty flight of steps into the great hall of the palace .
It was splendidly illuminated by means of large precious stones , of various hues , which seemed to burn like so many lamps , and glowed with a hundred-fold radiance all through the vast apartment .
And yet there was a kind of gloom in the midst of this enchanted light ; nor was there a single object in the hall that was really agreeable to behold , except the little Proserpina herself , a lovely child , with one earthly flower which she had not let fall from her hand .
It is my opinion that even King Pluto had never been happy in his palace , and that this was the true reason why he had stolen away Proserpina , in order that he might have something to love , instead of cheating his heart any longer with this tiresome magnificence .
And , though he pretended to dislike the sunshine of the upper world , yet the effect of the child 's presence , bedimmed as she was by her tears , was as if a faint and watery sunbeam had somehow or other found its way into the enchanted hall .
Pluto now summoned his domestics , and bade them lose no time in preparing a most sumptuous banquet , and above all things , not to fail of setting a golden beaker of the water of Lethe by Proserpina 's plate .
`` I will neither drink that nor anything else , '' said Proserpina .
`` Nor will I taste a morsel of food , even if you keep me forever in your palace . ''
`` I should be sorry for that , '' replied King Pluto , patting her cheek ; for he really wished to be kind , if he had only known how .
`` You are a spoiled child , I perceive , my little Proserpina ; but when you see the nice things which my cook will make for you , your appetite will quickly come again . ''
Then , sending for the head cook , he gave strict orders that all sorts of delicacies , such as young people are usually fond of , should be set before Proserpina .
He had a secret motive in this ; for , you are to understand , it is a fixed law , that when persons are carried off to the land of magic , if they once taste any food there , they can never get back to their friends .
Now , if King Pluto had been cunning enough to offer Proserpina some fruit , or bread and milk -LRB- which was the simple fare to which the child had always been accustomed -RRB- , it is very probable that she would soon have been tempted to eat it .
But he left the matter entirely to his cook , who , like all other cooks , considered nothing fit to eat unless it were rich pastry , or highly-seasoned meat , or spiced sweet cakes -- things which Proserpina 's mother had never given her , and the smell of which quite took away her appetite , instead of sharpening it .
But my story must now clamber out of King Pluto 's dominions , and see what Mother Ceres had been about , since she was bereft of her daughter .
We had a glimpse of her , as you remember , half hidden among the waving grain , while the four black steeds were swiftly whirling along the chariot , in which her beloved Proserpina was so unwillingly borne away .
You recollect , too , the loud scream which Proserpina gave , just when the chariot was out of sight .
Of all the child 's outcries , this last shriek was the only one that reached the ears of Mother Ceres .
She had mistaken the rumbling of the chariot wheels for a peal of thunder , and imagined that a shower was coming up , and that it would assist her in making the corn grow .
But , at the sound of Proserpina 's shriek , she started , and looked about in every direction , not knowing whence it came , but feeling almost certain that it was her daughter 's voice .
It seemed so unaccountable , however , that the girl should have strayed over so many lands and seas -LRB- which she herself could not have traversed without the aid of her winged dragons -RRB- , that the good Ceres tried to believe that it must be the child of some other parent , and not her own darling Proserpina , who had uttered this lamentable cry .
Nevertheless , it troubled her with a vast many tender fears , such as are ready to bestir themselves in every mother 's heart , when she finds it necessary to go away from her dear children without leaving them under the care of some maiden aunt , or other such faithful guardian .
So she quickly left the field in which she had been so busy ; and , as her work was not half done , the grain looked , next day , as if it needed both sun and rain , and as if it were blighted in the ear , and had something the matter with its roots .
The pair of dragons must have had very nimble wings ; for , in less than an hour , Mother Ceres had alighted at the door of her home , and found it empty .
Knowing , however , that the child was fond of sporting on the sea-shore , she hastened thither as fast as she could , and there beheld the wet faces of the poor sea nymphs peeping over a wave .
All this while , the good creatures had been waiting on the bank of sponge , and once , every half minute or so , had popped up their four heads above water , to see if their playmate were yet coming back .
When they saw Mother Ceres , they sat down on the crest of the surf wave , and let it toss them ashore at her feet .
`` Where is Proserpina ? ''
cried Ceres .
`` Where is my child ?
Tell me , you naughty sea nymphs , have you enticed her under the sea ? ''
`` O , no , good Mother Ceres , '' said the innocent sea nymphs , tossing back their green ringlets , and looking her in the face .
`` We never should dream of such a thing .
Proserpina has been at play with us , it is true ; but she left us a long while ago , meaning only to run a little way upon the dry land , and gather some flowers for a wreath .
This was early in the day , and we have seen nothing of her since . ''
Ceres scarcely waited to hear what the nymphs had to say , before she hurried off to make inquiries all through the neighborhood .
But nobody told her anything that would enable the poor mother to guess what had become of Proserpina .
A fisherman , it is true , had noticed her little footprints in the sand , as he went homeward along the beach with a basket of fish ; a rustic had seen the child stooping to gather flowers ; several persons had heard either the rattling of chariot wheels , or the rumbling of distant thunder ; and one old woman , while plucking vervain and catnip , had heard a scream , but supposed it to be some childish nonsense , and therefore did not take the trouble to look up .
The stupid people !
It took them such a tedious while to tell the nothing that they knew , that it was dark night before Mother Ceres found out that she must seek her daughter elsewhere .
So she lighted a torch , and set forth , resolving never to come back until Proserpina was discovered .
In her haste and trouble of mind , she quite forgot her car and the winged dragons ; or , it may be , she thought that she could follow up the search more thoroughly on foot .
At all events , this was the way in which she began her sorrowful journey , holding her torch before her , and looking carefully at every object along the path .
And as it happened , she had not gone far before she found one of the magnificent flowers which grew on the shrub that Proserpina had pulled up .
`` Ha ! ''
thought Mother Ceres , examining it by torchlight .
`` Here is mischief in this flower !
The earth did not produce it by any help of mine , nor of its own accord .
It is the work of enchantment , and is therefore poisonous ; and perhaps it has poisoned my poor child . ''
But she put the poisonous flower in her bosom , not knowing whether she might ever find any other memorial of Proserpina .
All night long , at the door of every cottage and farm-house , Ceres knocked , and called up the weary laborers to inquire if they had seen her child ; and they stood , gaping and half-asleep , at the threshold , and answered her pityingly , and besought her to come in and rest .
At the portal of every palace , too , she made so loud a summons that the menials hurried to throw open the gate , thinking that it must be some great king or queen , who would demand a banquet for supper and a stately chamber to repose in .
And when they saw only a sad and anxious woman , with a torch in her hand and a wreath of withered poppies on her head , they spoke rudely , and sometimes threatened to set the dogs upon her .
But nobody had seen Proserpina , nor could give Mother Ceres the least hint which way to seek her .
Thus passed the night ; and still she continued her search without sitting down to rest , or stopping to take food , or even remembering to put out the torch although first the rosy dawn , and then the glad light of the morning sun , made its red flame look thin and pale .
But I wonder what sort of stuff this torch was made of ; for it burned dimly through the day , and , at night , was as bright as ever , and never was extinguished by the rain or wind , in all the weary days and nights while Ceres was seeking for Proserpina .
It was not merely of human beings that she asked tidings of her daughter .
In the woods and by the streams , she met creatures of another nature , who used , in those old times , to haunt the pleasant and solitary places , and were very sociable with persons who understood their language and customs , as Mother Ceres did .
Sometimes , for instance , she tapped with her finger against the knotted trunk of a majestic oak ; and immediately its rude bark would cleave asunder , and forth would step a beautiful maiden , who was the hamadryad of the oak , dwelling inside of it , and sharing its long life , and rejoicing when its green leaves sported with the breeze .
But not one of these leafy damsels had seen Proserpina .
Then , going a little farther , Ceres would , perhaps , come to a fountain , gushing out of a pebbly hollow in the earth , and would dabble with her hand in the water .
Behold , up through its sandy and pebbly bed , along with the fountain 's gush , a young woman with dripping hair would arise , and stand gazing at Mother Ceres , half out of the water , and undulating up and down with its ever-restless motion .
But when the mother asked whether her poor lost child had stopped to drink out of the fountain , the naiad , with weeping eyes -LRB- for these water-nymphs had tears to spare for everybody 's grief -RRB- , would answer `` No ! ''
in a murmuring voice , which was just like the murmur of the stream .
Often , likewise , she encountered fauns , who looked like sunburnt country people , except that they had hairy ears , and little horns upon their foreheads , and the hinder legs of goats , on which they gamboled merrily about the woods and fields .
They were a frolicsome kind of creature but grew as sad as their cheerful dispositions would allow , when Ceres inquired for her daughter , and they had no good news to tell .
But sometimes she same suddenly upon a rude gang of satyrs , who had faces like monkeys , and horses ' tails behind them , and who were generally dancing in a very boisterous manner , with shouts of noisy laughter .
When she stopped to question them , they would only laugh the louder , and make new merriment out of the lone woman 's distress .
How unkind of those ugly satyrs !
And once , while crossing a solitary sheep pasture , she saw a personage named Pan , seated at the foot of a tall rock , and making music on a shepherd 's flute .
He , too , had horns , and hairy ears , and goats ' feet ; but , being acquainted with Mother Ceres , he answered her question as civilly as he knew how , and invited her to taste some milk and honey out of a wooden bowl .
But neither could Pan tell her what had become of Proserpina , any better than the rest of these wild people .
And thus Mother Ceres went wandering about for nine long days and nights , finding no trace of Proserpina , unless it were now and then a withered flower ; and these she picked up and put in her bosom , because she fancied that they might have fallen from her poor child 's hand .
All day she traveled onward through the hot sun ; and , at night again , the flame of the torch would redden and gleam along the pathway , and she continued her search by its light , without ever sitting down to rest .
On the tenth day , she chanced to espy the mouth of a cavern within which -LRB- though it was bright noon everywhere else -RRB- there would have been only a dusky twilight ; but it so happened that a torch was burning there .
It flickered , and struggled with the duskiness , but could not half light up the gloomy cavern with all its melancholy glimmer .
Ceres was resolved to leave no spot without a search ; so she peeped into the entrance of the cave , and lighted it up a little more , by holding her own torch before her .
In so doing , she caught a glimpse of what seemed to be a woman , sitting on the brown leaves of the last autumn , a great heap of which had been swept into the cave by the wind .
This woman -LRB- if woman it were -RRB- was by no means so beautiful as many of her sex ; for her head , they tell me , was shaped very much like a dog 's , and , by way of ornament , she wore a wreath of snakes around it .
But Mother Ceres , the moment she saw her , knew that this was an odd kind of a person , who put all her enjoyment in being miserable , and never would have a word to say to other people , unless they were as melancholy and wretched as she herself delighted to be .
`` I am wretched enough now , '' thought poor Ceres , `` to talk with this melancholy Hecate , were she ten times sadder than ever she was yet . ''
So she stepped into the cave , and sat down on the withered leaves by the dog-headed woman 's side .
In all the world , since her daughter 's loss , she had found no other companion .
`` O Hecate , '' said she , `` if ever you lose a daughter , you will know what sorrow is .
Tell me , for pity 's sake , have you seen my poor child Proserpina pass by the mouth of your cavern ? ''
`` No , '' answered Hecate , in a cracked voice , and sighing betwixt every word or two ; `` no , Mother Ceres , I have seen nothing of your daughter .
But my ears , you must know , are made in such a way , that all cries of distress and affright all over the world are pretty sure to find their way to them ; and nine days ago , as I sat in my cave , making myself very miserable , I heard the voice of a young girl , shrieking as if in great distress .
Something terrible has happened to the child , you may rest assured .
As well as I could judge , a dragon , or some other cruel monster , was carrying her away . ''
`` You kill me by saying so , '' cried Ceres , almost ready to faint .
`` Where was the sound , and which way did it seem to go ? ''
`` It passed very swiftly along , '' said Hecate , `` and , at the same time , there was a heavy rumbling of wheels towards the eastward .
I can tell you nothing more , except that , in my honest opinion , you will never see your daughter again .
The best advice I can give you is , to take up your abode in this cavern , where we will be the two most wretched women in the world . ''
`` Not yet , dark Hecate , '' replied Ceres .
`` But do you first come with your torch , and help me to seek for my lost child .
And when there shall be no more hope of finding her -LRB- if that black day is ordained to come -RRB- , then , if you will give me room to fling myself down , either on these withered leaves or on the naked rock , I will show what it is to be miserable .
But , until I know that she has perished from the face of the earth , I will not allow myself space even to grieve . ''
The dismal Hecate did not much like the idea of going abroad into the sunny world .
But then she reflected that the sorrow of the disconsolate Ceres would be like a gloomy twilight round about them both , let the sun shine ever so brightly , and that therefore she might enjoy her bad spirits quite as well as if she were to stay in the cave .
So she finally consented to go , and they set out together , both carrying torches , although it was broad daylight and clear sunshine .
The torchlight seemed to make a gloom ; so that the people whom they met , along the road , could not very distinctly see their figures ; and , indeed , if they once caught a glimpse of Hecate , with the wreath of snakes round her forehead , they generally thought it prudent to run away , without waiting for a second glance .
As the pair traveled along in this woe-begone manner , a thought struck Ceres .
`` There is one person , '' she exclaimed , `` who must have seen my poor child , and can doubtless tell what has become of her .
Why did not I think of him before ?
It is Phoebus . ''
`` What , '' said Hecate , `` the young man that always sits in the sunshine ?
O , pray do not think of going near him .
He is a gay , light , frivolous young fellow , and will only smile in your face .
And besides , there is such a glare of the sun about him , that he will quite blind my poor eyes , which I have almost wept away already . ''
`` You have promised to be my companion , '' answered Ceres .
`` Come , let us make haste , or the sunshine will be gone , and Phoebus along with it . ''
Accordingly , they went along in quest of Phoebus , both of them sighing grievously , and Hecate , to say the truth , making a great deal worse lamentation than Ceres ; for all the pleasure she had , you know , lay in being miserable , and therefore she made the most of it .
By and by , after a pretty long journey , they arrived at the sunniest spot in the whole world .
There they beheld a beautiful young man , with long , curling ringlets , which seemed to be made of golden sunbeams ; his garments were like light summer clouds ; and the expression of his face was so exceedingly vivid , that Hecate held her hands before her eyes , muttering that he ought to wear a black veil .
Phoebus -LRB- for this was the very person whom they were seeking -RRB- had a lyre in his hands , and was making its chords tremble with sweet music ; at the same time singing a most exquisite song , which he had recently composed .
For , beside a great many other accomplishments , this young man was renowned for his admirable poetry .
As Ceres and her dismal companion approached him , Phoebus smiled on them so cheerfully that Hecate 's wreath of snakes gave a spiteful hiss , and Hecate heartily wished herself back in her cave .
But as for Ceres , she was too earnest in her grief either to know or care whether Phoebus smiled or frowned .
`` Phoebus ! ''
exclaimed she , `` I am in great trouble , and have come to you for assistance .
Can you tell me what has become of my dear child Proserpina ? ''
`` Proserpina !
Proserpina , did you call her name ? ''
answered Phoebus , endeavoring to recollect ; for there was such a continual flow of pleasant ideas in his mind , that he was apt to forget what had happened no longer ago than yesterday .
`` Ah , yes , I remember her now .
A very lovely child , indeed .
I am happy to tell you , my dear madam , that I did see the little Proserpina not many days ago .
You may make yourself perfectly easy about her .
She is safe , and in excellent hands . ''
`` O , where is my dear child ? ''
cried Ceres , clasping her hands , and flinging herself at his feet .
`` Why , '' said Phoebus -- and as he spoke he kept touching his lyre so as to make a thread of music run in and out among his words -- `` as the little damsel was gathering flowers -LRB- and she has really a very exquisite taste for flowers -RRB- , she was suddenly snatched up by King Pluto , and carried off to his dominions .
I have never been in that part of the universe ; but the royal palace , I am told , is built in a very noble style of architecture , and of the most splendid and costly materials .
Gold , diamonds , pearls , and all manner of precious stones will be your daughter 's ordinary playthings .
I recommend to you , my dear lady , to give yourself no uneasiness .
Proserpina 's sense of beauty will be duly gratified , and even in spite of the lack of sunshine , she will lead a very enviable life . ''
`` Hush !
Say not such a word ! ''
answered Ceres , indignantly .
`` What is there to gratify her heart ?
What are all the splendors you speak of without affection ?
I must have her back again .
Will you go with me you go with me , Phoebus , to demand my daughter of this wicked Pluto ? ''
`` Pray excuse me , '' replied Phoebus , with an elegant obeisance .
`` I certainly wish you success , and regret that my own affairs are so immediately pressing that I can not have the pleasure of attending you .
Besides , I am not upon the best of terms with King Pluto .
To tell you the truth , his three-headed mastiff would never let me pass the gateway ; for I should be compelled to take a sheaf of sunbeams along with me , and those , you know , are forbidden things in Pluto 's kingdom . ''
`` Ah , Phoebus , '' said Ceres , with bitter meaning in her words , `` you have a harp instead of a heart .
Farewell . ''
`` Will not you stay a moment , '' asked Phoebus , `` and hear me turn the pretty and touching story of Proserpina into extemporary verses ? ''
But Ceres shook her head , and hastened away , along with Hecate .
Phoebus -LRB- who , as I have told you , was an exquisite poet -RRB- forthwith began to make an ode about the poor mother 's grief ; and , if we were to judge of his sensibility by this beautiful production , he must have been endowed with a very tender heart .
But when a poet gets into the habit of using his heartstrings to make chords for his lyre , he may thrum upon them as much as he will , without any great pain to himself .
Accordingly , though Phoebus sang a very sad song , he was as merry all the while as were the sunbeams amid which he dwelt .
Poor Mother Ceres had now found out what had become of her daughter , but was not a whit happier than before .
Her case , on the contrary , looked more desperate than ever .
As long as Proserpina was above ground , there might have been hopes of regaining her .
But now that the poor child was shut up within the iron gates of the king of the mines , at the threshold of which lay the three-headed Cerberus , there seemed no possibility of her ever making her escape .
The dismal Hecate , who loved to take the darkest view of things , told Ceres that she had better come with her to the cavern , and spend the rest of her life in being miserable .
Ceres answered , that Hecate was welcome to go back thither herself , but that , for her part , she would wander about the earth in quest of the entrance to King Pluto 's dominions .
And Hecate took her at her word , and hurried back to her beloved cave , frightening a great many little children with a glimpse of her dog 's face as she went .
Poor Mother Ceres !
It is melancholy to think of her , pursuing her toilsome way , all alone , and holding up that never-dying torch , the flame of which seemed an emblem of the grief and hope that burned together in her heart .
So much did she suffer , that , though her aspect had been quite youthful when her troubles began , she grew to look like an elderly person in a very brief time .
She cared not how she was dressed , nor had she ever thought of flinging away the wreath of withered poppies , which she put on the very morning of Proserpina 's disappearance .
She roamed about in so wild a way , and with her hair so disheveled , that people took her for some distracted creature , and never dreamed that this was Mother Ceres , who had the oversight of every seed which the husbandman planted .
Nowadays , however , she gave herself no trouble about seed time nor harvest , but left the farmers to take care of their own affairs , and the crops to fade or flourish , as the case might be .
There was nothing , now , in which Ceres seemed to feel an interest , unless when she saw children at play , or gathering flowers along the wayside .
Then , indeed , she would stand and gaze at them with tears in her eyes .
The children , too , appeared to have a sympathy with her grief , and would cluster themselves in a little group about her knees , and look up wistfully in her face ; and Ceres , after giving them a kiss all round , would lead them to their homes , and advise their mothers never to let them stray out of sight .
`` For if they do , '' said she , `` it may happen to you , as it has to me , that the iron-hearted King Pluto will take a liking to your darlings , and snatch them up in his chariot , and carry them away . ''
One day , during her pilgrimage in quest of the entrance to Pluto 's kingdom , she came to the palace of King Cereus , who reigned at Eleusis .
Ascending a lofty flight of steps , she entered the portal , and found the royal household in very great alarm about the queen 's baby .
The infant , it seems , was sickly -LRB- being troubled with its teeth , I suppose -RRB- , and would take no food , and was all the time moaning with pain .
The queen -- her name was Metanira -- was desirous of funding a nurse ; and when she beheld a woman of matronly aspect coming up the palace steps , she thought , in her own mind , that here was the very person whom she needed .
So Queen Metanira ran to the door , with the poor wailing baby in her arms , and besought Ceres to take charge of it , or , at least , to tell her what would do it good .
`` Will you trust the child entirely to me ? ''
asked Ceres .
`` Yes , and gladly , too , '' answered the queen , `` if you will devote all your time to him .
For I can see that you have been a mother . ''
`` You are right , '' said Ceres .
`` I once had a child of my own .
Well ; I will be the nurse of this poor , sickly boy .
But beware , I warn you , that you do not interfere with any kind of treatment which I may judge proper for him .
If you do so , the poor infant must suffer for his mother 's folly . ''
Then she kissed the child , and it seemed to do him good ; for he smiled and nestled closely into her bosom .
So Mother Ceres set her torch in a corner -LRB- where it kept burning all the while -RRB- , and took up her abode in the palace of King Cereus , as nurse to the little Prince Demophoon .
She treated him as if he were her own child , and allowed neither the king nor the queen to say whether he should be bathed in warm or cold water , or what he should eat , or how often he should take the air , or when he should be put to bed .
You would hardly believe me , if I were to tell how quickly the baby prince got rid of his ailments , and grew fat , and rosy , and strong , and how he had two rows of ivory teeth in less time than any other little fellow , before or since .
Instead of the palest , and wretchedest , and puniest imp in the world -LRB- as his own mother confessed him to be , when Ceres first took him in charge -RRB- , he was now a strapping baby , crowing , laughing , kicking up his heels , and rolling from one end of the room to the other .
All the good women of the neighborhood crowded to the palace , and held up their hands , in unutterable amazement , at the beauty and wholesomeness of this darling little prince .
Their wonder was the greater , because he was never seen to taste any food ; not even so much as a cup of milk .
`` Pray , nurse , '' the queen kept saying , `` how is it that you make the child thrive so ? ''
`` I was a mother once , '' Ceres always replied ; `` and having nursed my own child , I know what other children need . ''
But Queen Metanira , as was very natural , had a great curiosity to know precisely what the nurse did to her child .
One night , therefore , she hid herself in the chamber where Ceres and the little prince were accustomed to sleep .
There was a fire in the chimney , and it had now crumbled into great coals and embers , which lay glowing on the hearth , with a blaze flickering up now and then , and flinging a warm and ruddy light upon the walls .
Ceres sat before the hearth with the child in her lap , and the firelight making her shadow dance upon the ceiling overhead .
She undressed the little prince , and bathed him all over with some fragrant liquid out of a vase .
The next thing she did was to rake back the red embers , and make a hollow place among them , just where the backlog had been .
At last , while the baby was crowing , and clapping its fat little hands , and laughing in the nurse 's face -LRB- just as you may have seen your little brother or sister do before going into its warm bath -RRB- , Ceres suddenly laid him , all naked as he was , in the hollow among the red-hot embers .
She then raked the ashes over him , and turned quietly away .
You may imagine , if you can , how Queen Metanira shrieked , thinking nothing less than that her dear child would be burned to a cinder .
She burst forth from her hiding-place , and running to the hearth , raked open the fire , and snatched up poor little Prince Demophoon out of his bed of live coals , one of which he was gripping in each of his fists .
He immediately set up a grievous cry , as babies are apt to do , when rudely startled out of a sound sleep .
To the queen 's astonishment and joy , she could perceive no token of the child 's being injured by the hot fire in which he had lain .
She now turned to Mother Ceres , and asked her to explain the mystery .
`` Foolish woman , '' answered Ceres , `` did you not promise to intrust this poor infant entirely to me ?
You little know the mischief you have done him .
Had you left him to my care , he would have grown up like a child of celestial birth , endowed with superhuman strength and intelligence , and would have lived forever .
Do you imagine that earthly children are to become immortal without being tempered to it in the fiercest heat of the fire ?
But you have ruined your own son .
For though he will be a strong man and a hero in his day , yet , on account of your folly , he will grow old , and finally die , like the sons of other women .
The weak tenderness of his mother has cost the poor boy an immortality .
Farewell . ''
Saying these words , she kissed the little Prince Demophoon , and sighed to think what he had lost , and took her departure without heeding Queen Metanira , who entreated her to remain , and cover up the child among the hot embers as often as she pleased .
Poor baby !
He never slept so warmly again .
While she dwelt in the king 's palace , Mother Ceres had been so continually occupied with taking care of the young prince , that her heart was a little lightened of its grief for Proserpina .
But now , having nothing else to busy herself about , she became just as wretched as before .
At length , in her despair , she came to the dreadful resolution that not a stalk of grain , nor a blade of grass , not a potato , nor a turnip , nor any other vegetable that was good for man or beast to eat , should be suffered to grow until her daughter were restored .
She even forbade the flowers to bloom , lest somebody 's heart should be cheered by their beauty .
Now , as not so much as a head of asparagus ever presumed to poke itself out of the ground , without the especial permission of Ceres , you may conceive what a terrible calamity had here fallen upon the earth .
The husbandmen plowed and planted as usual ; but there lay the rich black furrows , all as barren as a desert of sand .
The pastures looked as brown in the sweet month of June as ever they did in chill November .
The rich man 's broad acres and the cottager 's small garden patch were equally blighted .
Every little girl 's flower bed showed nothing but dry stalks .
The old people shook their white heads , and said that the earth had grown aged like themselves , and was no longer capable of wearing the warm smile of summer on its face .
It was really piteous to see the poor , starving cattle and sheep , how they followed behind Ceres , lowing and bleating , as if their instinct taught them to expect help from her ; and everybody that was acquainted with her power besought her to have mercy on the human race , and , at all events , to let the grass grow .
But Mother Ceres , though naturally of an affectionate disposition , was now inexorable .
`` Never , '' said she .
`` If the earth is ever again to see any verdure , it must first grow along the path which my daughter will tread in coming back to me . ''
Finally , as there seemed to be no other remedy , our old friend Quicksilver was sent post-haste to King Pluto , in hopes that he might be persuaded to undo the mischief he had done , and to set everything right again , by giving up Proserpina .
Quicksilver accordingly made the best of his way to the great gate , took a flying leap right over the three-headed mastiff , and stood at the door of the palace in an inconceivably short time .
The servants knew him both by his face and garb ; for his short cloak , and his winged cap and shoes , and his snaky staff had often been seen thereabouts in times gone by .
He requested to be shown immediately into the king 's presence ; and Pluto , who heard his voice from the top of the stairs , and who loved to recreate himself with Quicksilver 's merry talk , called out to him to come up .
And while they settle their business together , we must inquire what Proserpina had been doing ever since we saw her last .
The child had declared , as you may remember , that she would not taste a mouthful of food as long as she should be compelled to remain in King Pluto 's palace .
How she contrived to maintain her resolution , and at the same time to keep herself tolerably plump and rosy , is more than I can explain ; but some young ladies , I am given to understand , possess the faculty of living on air , and Proserpina seems to have possessed it too .
At any rate , it was now six months since she left the outside of the earth ; and not a morsel , so far as the attendants were able to testify , had yet passed between her teeth .
This was the more creditable to Proserpina , inasmuch as King Pluto had caused her to be tempted day by day , with all manner of sweetmeats , and richly-preserved fruits , and delicacies of every sort , such as young people are generally most fond of .
But her good mother had often told her of the hurtfulness of these things ; and for that reason alone , if there had been no other , she would have resolutely refused to taste them .
All this time , being of a cheerful and active disposition , the little damsel was not quite so unhappy as you may have supposed .
The immense palace had a thousand rooms , and was full of beautiful and wonderful objects .
There was a never-ceasing gloom , it is true , which half hid itself among the innumerable pillars , gliding before the child as she wandered among them , and treading stealthily behind her in the echo of her footsteps .
Neither was all the dazzle of the precious stones , which flamed with their own light , worth one gleam of natural sunshine ; nor could the most brilliant of the many-colored gems , which Proserpina had for playthings , vie with the simple beauty of the flowers she used to gather .
But still , whenever the girl went among those gilded halls and chambers , it seemed as if she carried nature and sunshine along with her , and as if she scattered dewy blossoms on her right hand and on her left .
After Proserpina came , the palace was no longer the same abode of stately artifice and dismal magnificence that it had before been .
The inhabitants all felt this , and King Pluto more than any of them .
`` My own little Proserpina , '' he used to say .
`` I wish you could like me a little better .
We gloomy and cloudy-natured persons have often as warm hearts , at bottom , as those of a more cheerful character .
If you would only stay with me of your own accord , it would make me happier than the possession of a hundred such palaces as this . ''
`` Ah , '' said Proserpina , `` you should have tried to make me like you before carrying me off .
And the best thing you can now do is , to let me go again .
Then I might remember you sometimes , and think that you were as kind as you knew how to be .
Perhaps , too , one day or other , I might come back , and pay you a visit . ''
`` No , no , '' answered Pluto , with his gloomy smile , `` I will not trust you for that .
You are too fond of living in the broad daylight , and gathering flowers .
What an idle and childish taste that is !
Are not these gems , which I have ordered to be dug for you , and which are richer than any in my crown -- are they not prettier than a violet ? ''
`` Not half so pretty , '' said Proserpina , snatching the gems from Pluto 's hand , and flinging them to the other end of the hall .
`` O my sweet violets , shall I never see you again ? ''
And then she burst into tears .
But young people 's tears have very little saltness or acidity in them , and do not inflame the eyes so much as those of grown persons ; so that it is not to be wondered at , if , a few moments afterwards , Proserpina was sporting through the hall almost as merrily as she and the four sea nymphs had sported along the edge of the surf wave .
King Pluto gazed after her , and wished that he , too , was a child .
And little Proserpina , when she turned about , and beheld this great king standing in his splendid hall , and looking so grand , and so melancholy , and so lonesome , was smitten with a kind of pity .
She ran back to him , and , for the first time in all her life , put her small , soft hand in his .
`` I love you a little , '' whispered she , looking up in his face .
`` Do you , indeed , my dear child ? ''
cried Pluto , bending his dark face down to kiss her ; but Proserpina shrank away from the kiss , for , though his features were noble , they were very dusky and grim .
`` Well , I have not deserved it of you , after keeping you a prisoner for so many months , and starving you besides .
Are you not terribly hungry ?
Is there nothing which I can get you to eat ? ''
In asking this question , the king of the mines had a very cunning purpose ; for , you will recollect , if Proserpina tasted a morsel of food in his dominions , she would never afterwards be at liberty to quit them .
`` No indeed , '' said Proserpina .
`` Your head cook is always baking , and stewing , and roasting , and rolling out paste , and contriving one dish or another , which he imagines may be to my liking .
But he might just as well save himself the trouble , poor , fat little man that he is .
I have no appetite for anything in the world , unless it were a slice of bread , of my mother 's own baking , or a little fruit out of her garden . ''
When Pluto heard this , he began to see that he had mistaken the best method of tempting Proserpina to eat .
The cook 's made dishes and artificial dainties were not half so delicious , in the good child 's opinion , as the simple fare to which Mother Ceres had accustomed her .
Wondering that he had never thought of it before , the king now sent one of his trusty attendants with a large basket , to get some of the finest and juiciest pears , peaches , and plums which could anywhere be found in the upper world .
Unfortunately , however , this was during the time when Ceres had forbidden any fruits or vegetables to grow ; and , after seeking all over the earth , King Pluto 's servant found only a single pomegranate , and that so dried up as not to be worth eating .
Nevertheless , since there was no better to be had , he brought this dry , old withered pomegranate home to the palace , put it on a magnificent golden salver , and carried it up to Proserpina .
Now , it happened , curiously enough , that , just as the servant was bringing the pomegranate into the back door of the palace , our friend Quicksilver had gone up the front steps , on his errand to get Proserpina away from King Pluto .
As soon as Proserpina saw the pomegranate on the golden salver , she told the servant he had better take it away again .
`` I shall not touch it , I assure you , '' said she .
`` If I were ever so hungry , I should never think of eating such a miserable , dry pomegranate as that . ''
`` It is the only one in the world , '' said the servant .
He set down the golden salver , with the wizened pomegranate upon it , and left the room .
When he was gone , Proserpina could not help coming close to the table , and looking at this poor specimen of dried fruit with a great deal of eagerness ; for , to say the truth , on seeing something that suited her taste , she felt all the six months ' appetite taking possession of her at once .
To be sure , it was a very wretched-looking pomegranate , and seemed to have no more juice in it than an oyster shell .
But there was no choice of such things in King Pluto 's palace .
This was the first fruit she had seen there , and the last she was ever likely to see ; and unless she ate it up immediately , it would grow drier than it already was , and be wholly unfit to eat .
`` At least , I may smell it , '' thought Proserpina .
So she took up the pomegranate , and applied it to her nose ; and , somehow or other , being in such close neighborhood to her mouth , the fruit found its way into that little red cave .
Dear me !
what an everlasting pity !
Before Proserpina knew what she was about , her teeth had actually bitten it , of their own accord .
Just as this fatal deed was done , the door of the apartment opened , and in came King Pluto , followed by Quicksilver , who had been urging him to let his little prisoner go .
At the first noise of their entrance , Proserpina withdrew the pomegranate from her mouth .
But Quicksilver -LRB- whose eyes were very keen , and his wits the sharpest that ever anybody had -RRB- perceived that the child was a little confused ; and seeing the empty salver , he suspected that she had been taking a sly nibble of something or other .
As for honest Pluto , he never guessed at the secret .
`` My little Proserpina , '' said the king , sitting down , and affectionately drawing her between his knees , `` here is Quicksilver , who tells me that a great many misfortunes have befallen innocent people on account of my detaining you in my dominions .
To confess the truth , I myself had already reflected that it was an unjustifiable act to take you away from your good mother .
But , then , you must consider , my dear child , that this vast palace is apt to be gloomy -LRB- although the precious stones certainly shine very bright -RRB- , and that I am not of the most cheerful disposition , and that therefore it was a natural thing enough to seek for the society of some merrier creature than myself .
I hoped you would take my crown for a plaything , and me -- ah , you laugh , naughty Proserpina -- me , grim as I am , for a playmate .
It was a silly expectation . ''
`` Not so extremely silly , '' whispered Proserpina .
`` You have really amused me very much , sometimes . ''
`` Thank you , '' said King Pluto , rather dryly .
`` But I can see plainly enough , that you think my palace a dusky prison , and me the iron-hearted keeper of it .
And an iron heart I should surely have , if I could detain you here any longer , my poor child , when it is now six months since you tasted food .
I give you your liberty .
Go with Quicksilver .
Hasten home to your dear mother . ''
Now , although you may not have supposed it , Proserpina found it impossible to take leave of poor King Pluto without some regrets , and a good deal of compunction for not telling him about the pomegranate .
She even shed a tear or two , thinking how lonely and cheerless the great palace would seem to him , with all its ugly glare of artificial light , after she herself -- his one little ray of natural sunshine , whom he had stolen , to be sure , but only because he valued her so much -- after she should have departed .
I know not how many kind things she might have said to the disconsolate king of the mines , had not Quicksilver hurried her way .
`` Come along quickly , '' whispered he in her ear , `` or his majesty may change his royal mind .
And take care , above all things , that you say nothing of what was brought you on the golden salver . ''
In a very short time , they had passed the great gateway -LRB- leaving the three-headed Cerberus , barking , and yelping , and growling , with threefold din , behind them -RRB- , and emerged upon the surface of the earth .
It was delightful to behold , as Proserpina hastened along , how the path grew verdant behind and on either side of her .
Wherever she set her blessed foot , there was at once a dewy flower .
The violets gushed up along the wayside .
The grass and the grain began to sprout with tenfold vigor and luxuriance , to make up for the dreary months that had been wasted in barrenness .
The starved cattle immediately set to work grazing , after their long fast , and ate enormously , all day , and got up at midnight to eat more .
But I can assure you it was a busy time of year with the farmers , when they found the summer coming upon them with such a rush .
Nor must I forget to say , that all the birds in the whole world hopped about upon the newly-blossoming trees , and sang together , in a prodigious ecstasy of joy .
Mother Ceres had returned to her deserted home , and was sitting disconsolately on the doorstep , with her torch burning in her hand .
She had been idly watching the flame for some moments past , when , all at once , it flickered and went out .
`` What does this mean ? ''
thought she .
`` It was an enchanted torch , and should have kept burning till my child came back . ''
Lifting her eyes , she was surprised to see a sudden verdure flashing over the brown and barren fields , exactly as you may have observed a golden hue gleaming far and wide across the landscape , from the just risen sun .
`` Does the earth disobey me ? ''
exclaimed Mother Ceres , indignantly .
`` Does it presume to be green , when I have bidden it be barren , until my daughter shall be restored to my arms ? ''
`` Then open your arms , dear mother , '' cried a well-known voice , `` and take your little daughter into them . ''
And Proserpina came running , and flung herself upon her mother 's bosom .
Their mutual transport is not to be described .
The grief of their separation had caused both of them to shed a great many tears ; and now they shed a great many more , because their joy could not so well express itself in any other way .
When their hearts had grown a little more quiet , Mother Ceres looked anxiously at Proserpina .
`` My child , '' said she , `` did you taste any food while you were in King Pluto 's palace ? ''
`` Dearest mother , '' exclaimed Proserpina , `` I will tell you the whole truth .
Until this very morning , not a morsel of food had passed my lips .
But to-day , they brought me a pomegranate -LRB- a very dry one it was , and all shriveled up , till there was little left of it but seeds and skin -RRB- , and having seen no fruit for so long a time , and being faint with hunger , I was tempted just to bite it .
The instant I tasted it , King Pluto and Quicksilver came into the room .
I had not swallowed a morsel ; but -- dear mother , I hope it was no harm -- but six of the pomegranate seeds , I am afraid , remained in my mouth . ''
`` Ah , unfortunate child , and miserable me ! ''
exclaimed Ceres .
`` For each of those six pomegranate seeds you must spend one month of every year in King Pluto 's palace .
You are but half restored to your mother .
Only six months with me , and six with that good-for-nothing King of Darkness ! ''
`` Do not speak so harshly of poor King Pluto , '' said Prosperina , kissing her mother .
`` He has some very good qualities ; and I really think I can bear to spend six months in his palace , if he will only let me spend the other six with you .
He certainly did very wrong to carry me off ; but then , as he says , it was but a dismal sort of life for him , to live in that great gloomy place , all alone ; and it has made a wonderful change in his spirits to have a little girl to run up stairs and down .
There is some comfort in making him so happy ; and so , upon the whole , dearest mother , let us be thankful that he is not to keep me the whole year round . ''
THE GOLDEN FLEECE .
When Jason , the son of the dethroned King of Iolchos , was a little boy , he was sent away from his parents , and placed under the queerest schoolmaster that ever you heard of .
This learned person was one of the people , or quadrupeds , called Centaurs .
He lived in a cavern , and had the body and legs of a white horse , with the head and shoulders of a man .
His name was Chiron ; and , in spite of his odd appearance , he was a very excellent teacher , and had several scholars , who afterwards did him credit by making a great figure in the world .
The famous Hercules was one , and so was Achilles , and Philoctetes likewise , and Aesculapius , who acquired immense repute as a doctor .
The good Chiron taught his pupils how to play upon the harp , and how to cure diseases , and how to use the sword and shield , together with various other branches of education , in which the lads of those days used to be instructed , instead of writing and arithmetic .
I have sometimes suspected that Master Chiron was not really very different from other people , but that , being a kind-hearted and merry old fellow , he was in the habit of making believe that he was a horse , and scrambling about the schoolroom on all fours , and letting the little boys ride upon his back .
And so , when his scholars had grown up , and grown old , and were trotting their grandchildren on their knees , they told them about the sports of their school days ; and these young folks took the idea that their grandfathers had been taught their letters by a Centaur , half man and half horse .
Little children , not quite understanding what is said to them , often get such absurd notions into their heads , you know .
Be that as it may , it has always been told for a fact -LRB- and always will be told , as long as the world lasts -RRB- , that Chiron , with the head of a schoolmaster , had the body and legs of a horse .
Just imagine the grave old gentleman clattering and stamping into the schoolroom on his four hoofs , perhaps treading on some little fellow 's toes , flourishing his switch tail instead of a rod , and , now and then , trotting out of doors to eat a mouthful of grass !
I wonder what the blacksmith charged him for a set of iron shoes ?
So Jason dwelt in the cave , with this four-footed Chiron , from the time that he was an infant , only a few months old , until he had grown to the full height of a man .
He became a very good harper , I suppose , and skilful in the use of weapons , and tolerably acquainted with herbs and other doctor 's stuff , and , above all , an admirable horseman ; for , in teaching young people to ride , the good Chiron must have been without a rival among schoolmasters .
At length , being now a tall and athletic youth , Jason resolved to seek his fortune in the world , without asking Chiron 's advice , or telling him anything about the matter .
This was very unwise , to be sure ; and I hope none of you , my little hearers , will ever follow Jason 's example .
But , you are to understand , he had heard how that he himself was a prince royal , and how his father , King Jason , had been deprived of the kingdom of Iolchos by a certain Pelias , who would also have killed Jason , had he not been hidden in the Centaur 's cave .
And , being come to the strength of a man , Jason determined to set all this business to rights , and to punish the wicked Pelias for wronging his dear father , and to cast him down from the throne , and seat himself there instead .
With this intention , he took a spear in each hand , and threw a leopard 's skin over his shoulders , to keep off the rain , and set forth on his travels , with his long yellow ringlets waving in the wind .
The part of his dress on which he most prided himself was a pair of sandals , that had been his father 's .
They were handsomely embroidered , and were tied upon his feet with strings of gold .
But his whole attire was such as people did not very often see ; and as he passed along , the women and children ran to the doors and windows , wondering whither this beautiful youth was journeying , with his leopard 's skin and his golden-tied sandals , and what heroic deeds he meant to perform , with a spear in his right hand and another in his left .
I know not how far Jason had traveled , when he came to a turbulent river , which rushed right across his pathway , with specks of white foam among its black eddies , hurrying tumultuously onward , and roaring angrily as it went .
Though not a very broad river in the dry seasons of the year , it was now swollen by heavy rains and by the melting of the snow on the sides of Mount Olympus ; and it thundered so loudly , and looked so wild and dangerous , that Jason , bold as he was , thought it prudent to pause upon the brink .
The bed of the stream seemed to be strewn with sharp and rugged rocks , some of which thrust themselves above the water .
By and by , an uprooted tree , with shattered branches , came drifting along the current , and got entangled among the rocks .
Now and then , a drowned sheep , and once the carcass of a cow , floated past .
In short , the swollen river had already done a great deal of mischief .
It was evidently too deep for Jason to wade , and too boisterous for him to swim ; he could see no bridge ; and as for a boat , had there been any , the rocks would have broken it to pieces in an instant .
`` See the poor lad , '' said a cracked voice close to his side .
`` He must have had but a poor education , since he does not know how to cross a little stream like this .
Or is he afraid of wetting his fine golden-stringed sandals ?
It is a pity his four-footed schoolmaster is not here to carry him safely across on his back ! ''
Jason looked round greatly surprised , for he did not know that anybody was near .
But beside him stood an old woman , with a ragged mantle over her head , leaning on a staff , the top of which was carved into the shape of a cuckoo .
She looked very aged , and wrinkled , and infirm ; and yet her eyes , which were as brown as those of an ox , were so extremely large and beautiful , that , when they were fixed on Jason 's eyes , he could see nothing else but them .
The old woman had a pomegranate in her hand , although the fruit was then quite out of season .
`` Whither are you going , Jason ? ''
she now asked .
She seemed to know his name , you will observe ; and , indeed , those great brown eyes looked as if they had a knowledge of everything , whether past or to come .
While Jason was gazing at her , a peacock strutted forward , and took his stand at the old woman 's side .
`` I am going to Iolchos , '' answered the young man , `` to bid the wicked King Pelias come down from my father 's throne , and let me reign in his stead . ''
`` Ah , well , then , '' said the old woman , still with the same cracked voice , `` if that is all your business , you need not be in a very great hurry .
Just take me on your back , there 's a good youth , and carry me across the river .
I and my peacock have something to do on the other side , as well as yourself . ''
`` Good mother , '' replied Jason , `` your business can hardly be so important as the pulling down a king from his throne .
Besides , as you may see for yourself , the river is very boisterous ; and if I should chance to stumble , it would sweep both of us away more easily than it has carried off yonder uprooted tree .
I would gladly help you if I could ; but I doubt whether I am strong enough to carry you across . ''
`` Then , '' said she , very scornfully , `` neither are you strong enough to pull King Pelias off his throne .
And , Jason , unless you will help an old woman at her need , you ought not to be a king .
What are kings made for , save to succor the feeble and distressed ?
But do as you please .
Either take me on your back , or with my poor old limbs I shall try my best to struggle across the stream . ''
Saying this , the old woman poked with her staff in the river , as if to find the safest place in its rocky bed where she might make the first step .
But Jason , by this time , had grown ashamed of his reluctance to help her .
He felt that he could never forgive himself , if this poor feeble creature should come to any harm in attempting to wrestle against the headlong current .
The good Chiron , whether half horse or no , had taught him that the noblest use of his strength was to assist the weak ; and also that he must treat every young woman as if she were his sister , and every old one like a mother .
Remembering these maxims , the vigorous and beautiful young man knelt down , and requested the good dame to mount upon his back .
`` The passage seems to me not very safe , '' he remarked .
`` But as your business is so urgent , I will try to carry you across .
If the river sweeps you away , it shall take me too . ''
`` That , no doubt , will be a great comfort to both of us , '' quoth the old woman .
`` But never fear .
We shall get safely across . ''
So she threw her arms around Jason 's neck ; and lifting her from the ground , he stepped boldly into the raging and foaming current , and began to stagger away from the shore .
As for the peacock , it alighted on the old dame 's shoulder .
Jason 's two spears , one in each hand , kept him from stumbling , and enabled him to feel his way among the hidden rocks ; although every instant , he expected that his companion and himself would go down the stream , together with the driftwood of shattered trees , and the carcasses of the sheep and cow .
Down came the cold , snowy torrent from the steep side of Olympus , raging and thundering as if it had a real spite against Jason , or , at all events , were determined to snatch off his living burden from his shoulders .
When he was half way across , the uprooted tree -LRB- which I have already told you about -RRB- broke loose from among the rocks , and bore down upon him , with all its splintered branches sticking out like the hundred arms of the giant Briareus .
It rushed past , however , without touching him .
But the next moment his foot was caught in a crevice between two rocks , and stuck there so fast , that , in the effort to get free , he lost one of his golden-stringed sandals .
At this accident Jason could not help uttering a cry of vexation .
`` What is the matter , Jason ? ''
asked the old woman .
`` Matter enough , '' said the young man .
`` I have lost a sandal here among the rocks .
And what sort of a figure shall I cut , at the court of King Pelias , with a golden-stringed sandal on one foot , and the other foot bare ! ''
`` Do not take it to heart , '' answered his companion cheerily .
`` You never met with better fortune than in losing that sandal .
It satisfies me that you are the very person whom the Speaking Oak has been talking about . ''
There was no time , just then , to inquire what the Speaking Oak had said .
But the briskness of her tone encouraged the young man ; and , besides , he had never in his life felt so vigorous and mighty as since taking this old woman on his back .
Instead of being exhausted , he gathered strength as he went on ; and , struggling up against the torrent , he at last gained the opposite shore , clambered up the bank , and set down the old dame and her peacock safely on the grass .
As soon as this was done , however , he could not help looking rather despondently at his bare foot , with only a remnant of the golden string of the sandal clinging round his ankle .
`` You will get a handsomer pair of sandals by and by , '' said the old woman , with a kindly look out of her beautiful brown eyes .
`` Only let King Pelias get a glimpse of that bare foot , and you shall see him turn as pale as ashes , I promise you .
There is your path .
Go along , my good Jason , and my blessing go with you .
And when you sit on your throne remember the old woman whom you helped over the river . ''
With these words , she hobbled away , giving him a smile over her shoulder as she departed .
Whether the light of her beautiful brown eyes threw a glory round about her , or whatever the cause might be , Jason fancied that there was something very noble and majestic in her figure , after all , and that , though her gait seemed to be a rheumatic hobble , yet she moved with as much grace and dignity as any queen on earth .
Her peacock , which had now fluttered down from her shoulder , strutted behind her in a prodigious pomp , and spread out its magnificent tail on purpose for Jason to admire it .
When the old dame and her peacock were out of sight , Jason set forward on his journey .
After traveling a pretty long distance , he came to a town situated at the foot of a mountain , and not a great way from the shore of the sea .
On the outside of the town there was an immense crowd of people , not only men and women , but children too , all in their best clothes , and evidently enjoying a holiday .
The crowd was thickest towards the sea-shore ; and in that direction , over the people 's heads , Jason saw a wreath of smoke curling upward to the blue sky .
He inquired of one of the multitude what town it was near by , and why so many persons were here assembled together .
`` This is the kingdom of Iolchos , '' answered the man , `` and we are the subjects of King Pelias .
Our monarch has summoned us together , that we may see him sacrifice a black bull to Neptune , who , they say , is his majesty 's father .
Yonder is the king , where you see the smoke going up from the altar . ''
While the man spoke he eyed Jason with great curiosity ; for his garb was quite unlike that of the Iolchians , and it looked very odd to see a youth with a leopard 's skin over his shoulders , and each hand grasping a spear .
Jason perceived , too , that the man stared particularly at his feet , one of which , you remember , was bare , while the other was decorated with his father 's golden-stringed sandal .
`` Look at him !
only look at him ! ''
said the man to his next neighbor .
`` Do you see ?
He wears but one sandal ! ''
Upon this , first one person , and then another , began to stare at Jason , and everybody seemed to be greatly struck with something in his aspect ; though they turned their eyes much oftener towards his feet than to any other part of his figure .
Besides , he could hear them whispering to one another .
`` One sandal !
One sandal ! ''
they kept saying .
`` The man with one sandal !
Here he is at last !
Whence has he come ?
What does he mean to do ?
What will the king say to the one-sandaled man ? ''
Poor Jason was greatly abashed , and made up his mind that the people of Iolchos were exceedingly ill-bred , to take such public notice of an accidental deficiency in his dress .
Meanwhile , whether it were that they hustled him forward , or that Jason , of his own accord , thrust a passage through the crowd , it so happened that he soon found himself close to the smoking altar , where King Pelias was sacrificing the black bull .
The murmur and hum of the multitude , in their surprise at the spectacle of Jason with his one bare foot , grew so loud that it disturbed the ceremonies ; and the king , holding the great knife with which he was just going to cut the bull 's throat , turned angrily about , and fixed his eyes on Jason .
The people had now withdrawn from around him , so that the youth stood in an open space , near the smoking altar , front to front with the angry King Pelias .
`` Who are you ? ''
cried the king , with a terrible frown .
`` And how dare you make this disturbance , while I am sacrificing a black bull to my father Neptune ? ''
`` It is no fault of mine , '' answered Jason .
`` Your majesty must blame the rudeness of your subjects , who have raised all this tumult because one of my feet happens to be bare . ''
When Jason said this , the king gave a quick startled glance down at his feet .
`` Ha ! ''
muttered he , `` here is the one-sandaled fellow , sure enough !
What can I do with him ? ''
And he clutched more closely the great knife in his hand , as if he were half a mind to slay Jason , instead of the black bull .
The people round about caught up the king 's words , indistinctly as they were uttered ; and first there was a murmur amongst them , and then a loud shout .
`` The one-sandaled man has come !
The prophecy must be fulfilled ! ''
For you are to know , that , many years before , King Pelias had been told by the Speaking Oak of Dodona , that a man with one sandal should cast him down from his throne .
On this account , he had given strict orders that nobody should ever come into his presence , unless both sandals were securely tied upon his feet ; and he kept an officer in his palace , whose sole business it was to examine people 's sandals , and to supply them with a new pair , at the expense of the royal treasury , as soon as the old ones began to wear out .
In the whole course of the king 's reign , he had never been thrown into such a fright and agitation as by the spectacle of poor Jason 's bare foot .
But , as he was naturally a bold and hard-hearted man , he soon took courage , and began to consider in what way he might rid himself of this terrible one-sandaled stranger .
`` My good young man , '' said King Pelias , taking the softest tone imaginable , in order to throw Jason off his guard , `` you are excessively welcome to my kingdom .
Judging by your dress , you must have traveled a long distance , for it is not the fashion to wear leopard skins in this part of the world .
Pray what may I call your name ?
and where did you receive your education ? ''
`` My name is Jason , '' answered the young stranger .
`` Ever since my infancy , I have dwelt in the cave of Chiron the Centaur .
He was my instructor , and taught me music , and horsemanship , and how to cure wounds , and likewise how to inflict wounds with my weapons ! ''
`` I have heard of Chiron the schoolmaster , '' replied King Pelias , `` and how that there is an immense deal of learning and wisdom in his head , although it happens to be set on a horse 's body .
It gives me great delight to see one of his scholars at my court .
But to test how much you have profited under so excellent a teacher , will you allow me to ask you a single question ? ''
`` I do not pretend to be very wise , '' said Jason .
`` But ask me what you please , and I will answer to the best of my ability . ''
Now King Pelias meant cunningly to entrap the young man , and to make him say something that should be the cause of mischief and distraction to himself .
So , with a crafty and evil smile upon his face , he spoke as follows : `` What would you do , brave Jason , '' asked he , `` if there were a man in the world , by whom , as you had reason to believe , you were doomed to be ruined and slain -- what would you do , I say , if that man stood before you , and in your power ? ''
When Jason saw the malice and wickedness which King Pelias could not prevent from gleaming out of his eyes , he probably guessed that the king had discovered what he came for , and that he intended to turn his own words against himself .
Still he scorned to tell a falsehood .
Like an upright and honorable prince as he was , he determined to speak out the real truth .
Since the king had chosen to ask him the question , and since Jason had promised him an answer , there was no right way save to tell him precisely what would be the most prudent thing to do , if he had his worst enemy in his power .
Therefore , after a moment 's consideration , he spoke up , with a firm and manly voice .
`` I would send such a man , '' said he , `` in quest of the Golden Fleece ! ''
This enterprise , you will understand , was , of all others , the most difficult and dangerous in the world .
In the first place it would be necessary to make a long voyage through unknown seas .
There was hardly a hope , or a possibility , that any young man who should undertake this voyage would either succeed in obtaining the Golden Fleece , or would survive to return home , and tell of the perils he had run .
The eyes of King Pelias sparkled with joy , therefore , when he heard Jason 's reply .
`` Well said , wise man with the one sandal ! ''
cried he .
`` Go , then , and at the peril of your life , bring me back the Golden Fleece . ''
`` I go , '' answered Jason , composedly .
`` If I fail , you need not fear that I will ever come back to trouble you again .
But if I return to Iolchos with the prize , then , King Pelias , you must hasten down from your lofty throne , and give me your crown and sceptre . ''
`` That I will , '' said the king , with a sneer .
`` Meantime , I will keep them very safely for you . ''
The first thing that Jason thought of doing , after he left the king 's presence , was to go to Dodona , and inquire of the Talking Oak what course it was best to pursue .
This wonderful tree stood in the center of an ancient wood .
Its stately trunk rose up a hundred feet into the air , and threw a broad and dense shadow over more than an acre of ground .
Standing beneath it , Jason looked up among the knotted branches and green leaves , and into the mysterious heart of the old tree , and spoke aloud , as if he were addressing some person who was hidden in the depths of the foliage .
`` What shall I do , '' said he , `` in order to win the Golden Fleece ? ''
At first there was a deep silence , not only within the shadow of the Talking Oak , but all through the solitary wood .
In a moment or two , however , the leaves of the oak began to stir and rustle , as if a gentle breeze were wandering amongst them , although the other trees of the wood were perfectly still .
The sound grew louder , and became like the roar of a high wind .
By and by , Jason imagined that he could distinguish words , but very confusedly , because each separate leaf of the tree seemed to be a tongue , and the whole myriad of tongues were babbling at once .
But the noise waxed broader and deeper , until it resembled a tornado sweeping through the oak , and making one great utterance out of the thousand and thousand of little murmurs which each leafy tongue had caused by its rustling .
And now , though it still had the tone of a mighty wind roaring among the branches , it was also like a deep bass voice , speaking as distinctly as a tree could be expected to speak , the following words : `` Go to Argus , the shipbuilder , and bid him build a galley with fifty oars . ''
Then the voice melted again into the indistinct murmur of the rustling leaves , and died gradually away .
When it was quite gone , Jason felt inclined to doubt whether he had actually heard the words , or whether his fancy had not shaped them out of the ordinary sound made by a breeze , while passing through the thick foliage of the tree .
But on inquiry among the people of Iolchos , he found that there was really a man in the city , by the name of Argus , who was a very skilful builder of vessels .
This showed some intelligence in the oak ; else how should it have known that any such person existed ?
At Jason 's request , Argus readily consented to build him a galley so big that it should require fifty strong men to row it ; although no vessel of such a size and burden had heretofore been seen in the world .
So the head carpenter and all his journeymen and apprentices began their work ; and for a good while afterwards , there they were , busily employed , hewing out the timbers , and making a great clatter with their hammers ; until the new ship , which was called the Argo , seemed to be quite ready for sea .
And , as the Talking Oak had already given him such good advice , Jason thought that it would not be amiss to ask for a little more .
He visited it again , therefore , and standing beside its huge , rough trunk , inquired what he should do next .
This time , there was no such universal quivering of the leaves , throughout the whole tree , as there had been before .
But after a while , Jason observed that the foliage of a great branch which stretched above his head had begun to rustle , as if the wind were stirring that one bough , while all the other boughs of the oak were at rest .
`` Cut me off ! ''
said the branch , as soon as it could speak distinctly ; `` cut me off !
cut me off !
and carve me into a figure-head for your galley . ''
Accordingly , Jason took the branch at its word , and lopped it off the tree .
A carver in the neighborhood engaged to make the figurehead .
He was a tolerably good workman , and had already carved several figure-heads , in what he intended for feminine shapes , and looking pretty much like those which we see nowadays stuck up under a vessel 's bowsprit , with great staring eyes , that never wink at the dash of the spray .
But -LRB- what was very strange -RRB- the carver found that his hand was guided by some unseen power , and by a skill beyond his own , and that his tools shaped out an image which he had never dreamed of .
When the work was finished , it turned out to be the figure of a beautiful woman , with a helmet on her head , from beneath which the long ringlets fell down upon her shoulders .
On the left arm was a shield , and in its center appeared a lifelike representation of the head of Medusa with the snaky locks .
The right arm was extended , as if pointing onward .
The face of this wonderful statue , though not angry or forbidding , was so grave and majestic , that perhaps you might call it severe ; and as for the mouth , it seemed just ready to unclose its lips , and utter words of the deepest wisdom .
Jason was delighted with the oaken image , and gave the carver no rest until it was completed , and set up where a figure-head has always stood , from that time to this , in the vessel 's prow .
`` And now , '' cried he , as he stood gazing at the calm , majestic face of the statue , `` I must go to the Talking Oak and inquire what next to do . ''
`` There is no need of that , Jason , '' said a voice which , though it was far lower , reminded him of the mighty tones of the great oak .
`` When you desire good advice , you can seek it of me . ''
Jason had been looking straight into the face of the image when these words were spoken .
But he could hardly believe either his ears or his eyes .
The truth was , however , that the oaken lips had moved , and , to all appearance , the voice had proceeded from the statue 's mouth .
Recovering a little from his surprise , Jason bethought himself that the image had been carved out of the wood of the Talking Oak , and that , therefore , it was really no great wonder , but on the contrary , the most natural thing in the world , that it should possess the faculty of speech .
It would have been very odd , indeed , if it had not .
But certainly it was a great piece of good fortune that he should be able to carry so wise a block of wood along with him in his perilous voyage .
`` Tell me , wondrous image , '' exclaimed Jason , -- `` since you inherit the wisdom of the Speaking Oak of Dodona , whose daughter you are , -- tell me , where shall I find fifty bold youths , who will take each of them an oar of my galley ?
They must have sturdy arms to row , and brave hearts to encounter perils , or we shall never win the Golden Fleece . ''
`` Go , '' replied the oaken image , `` go , summon all the heroes of Greece . ''
And , in fact , considering what a great deed was to be done , could any advice be wiser than this which Jason received from the figure-head of his vessel ?
He lost no time in sending messengers to all the cities , and making known to the whole people of Greece , that Prince Jason , the son of King Jason , was going in quest of the Fleece of Gold , and that he desired the help of forty-nine of the bravest and strongest young men alive , to row his vessel and share his dangers .
And Jason himself would be the fiftieth .
At this news , the adventurous youths , all over the country , began to bestir themselves .
Some of them had already fought with giants , and slain dragons ; and the younger ones , who had not yet met with such good fortune , thought it a shame to have lived so long without getting astride of a flying serpent , or sticking their spears into a Chimaera , or , at least , thrusting their right arms down a monstrous lion 's throat .
There was a fair prospect that they would meet with plenty of such adventures before finding the Golden Fleece .
As soon as they could furbish up their helmets and shields , therefore , and gird on their trusty swords , they came thronging to Iolchos , and clambered on board the new galley .
Shaking hands with Jason , they assured him that they did not care a pin for their lives , but would help row the vessel to the remotest edge of the world , and as much farther as he might think it best to go .
Many of these brave fellows had been educated by Chiron , the four-footed pedagogue , and were therefore old schoolmates of Jason , and knew him to be a lad of spirit .
The mighty Hercules , whose shoulders afterwards upheld the sky , was one of them .
And there were Castor and Pollux , the twin brothers , who were never accused of being chicken-hearted , although they had been hatched out of an egg ; and Theseus , who was so renowned for killing the Minotaur , and Lynceus , with his wonderfully sharp eyes , which could see through a millstone , or look right down into the depths of the earth , and discover the treasures that were there ; and Orpheus , the very best of harpers , who sang and played upon his lyre so sweetly , that the brute beasts stood upon their hind legs , and capered merrily to the music .
Yes , and at some of his more moving tunes , the rocks bestirred their moss-grown bulk out of the ground , and a grove of forest trees uprooted themselves , and , nodding their tops to one another , performed a country dance .
One of the rowers was a beautiful young woman , named Atalanta , who had been nursed among the mountains by a bear .
So light of foot was this fair damsel , that she could step from one foamy crest of a wave to the foamy crest of another , without wetting more than the sole of her sandal .
She had grown up in a very wild way , and talked much about the rights of women , and loved hunting and war far better than her needle .
But in my opinion , the most remarkable of this famous company were two sons of the North Wind -LRB- airy youngsters , and of rather a blustering disposition -RRB- who had wings on their shoulders , and , in case of a calm , could puff out their cheeks , and blow almost as fresh a breeze as their father .
I ought not to forget the prophets and conjurors , of whom there were several in the crew , and who could foretell what would happen to-morrow or the next day , or a hundred years hence , but were generally quite unconscious of what was passing at the moment .
Jason appointed Tiphys to be helmsman because he was a star-gazer , and knew the points of the compass .
Lynceus , on account of his sharp sight , was stationed as a look-out in the prow , where he saw a whole day 's sail ahead , but was rather apt to overlook things that lay directly under his nose .
If the sea only happened to be deep enough , however , Lynceus could tell you exactly what kind of rocks or sands were at the bottom of it ; and he often cried out to his companions , that they were sailing over heaps of sunken treasure , which yet he was none the richer for beholding .
To confess the truth , few people believed him when he said it .
Well !
But when the Argonauts , as these fifty brave adventurers were called , had prepared everything for the voyage , an unforeseen difficulty threatened to end it before it was begun .
The vessel , you must understand , was so long , and broad , and ponderous , that the united force of all the fifty was insufficient to shove her into the water .
Hercules , I suppose , had not grown to his full strength , else he might have set her afloat as easily as a little boy launches his boat upon a puddle .
But here were these fifty heroes , pushing , and straining , and growing red in the face , without making the Argo start an inch .
At last , quite wearied out , they sat themselves down on the shore exceedingly disconsolate , and thinking that the vessel must be left to rot and fall in pieces , and that they must either swim across the sea or lose the Golden Fleece .
All at once , Jason bethought himself of the galley 's miraculous figure-head .
`` O , daughter of the Talking Oak , '' cried he , `` how shall we set to work to get our vessel into the water ? ''
`` Seat yourselves , '' answered the image -LRB- for it had known what had ought to be done from the very first , and was only waiting for the question to be put -RRB- , -- `` seat yourselves , and handle your oars , and let Orpheus play upon his harp . ''
Immediately the fifty heroes got on board , and seizing their oars , held them perpendicularly in the air , while Orpheus -LRB- who liked such a task far better than rowing -RRB- swept his fingers across the harp .
At the first ringing note of the music , they felt the vessel stir .
Orpheus thrummed away briskly , and the galley slid at once into the sea , dipping her prow so deeply that the figure-head drank the wave with its marvelous lips , and rising again as buoyant as a swan .
The rowers plied their fifty oars ; the white foam boiled up before the prow ; the water gurgled and bubbled in their wake ; while Orpheus continued to play so lively a strain of music , that the vessel seemed to dance over the billows by way of keeping time to it .
Thus triumphantly did the Argo sail out of the harbor , amidst the huzzas and good wishes of everybody except the wicked old Pelias , who stood on a promontory , scowling at her , and wishing that he could blow out of his lungs the tempest of wrath that was in his heart , and so sink the galley with all on board .
When they had sailed above fifty miles over the sea , Lynceus happened to cast his sharp eyes behind , and said that there was this bad-hearted king , still perched upon the promontory , and scowling so gloomily that it looked like a black thunder-cloud in that quarter of the horizon .
In order to make the time pass away more pleasantly during the voyage , the heroes talked about the Golden Fleece .
It originally belonged , it appears , to a Boeotian ram , who had taken on his back two children , when in danger of their lives , and fled with them over land and sea as far as Colchis .
One of the children , whose name was Helle , fell into the sea and was drowned .
But the other -LRB- a little boy , named Phrixus -RRB- was brought safe ashore by the faithful ram , who , however , was so exhausted that he immediately lay down and died .
In memory of this good deed , and as a token of his true heart , the fleece of the poor dead ram was miraculously changed to gold , and became one of the most beautiful objects ever seen on earth .
It was hung upon a tree in a sacred grove , where it had now been kept I know not how many years , and was the envy of mighty kings , who had nothing so magnificent in any of their palaces .
If I were to tell you all the adventures of the Argonauts , it would take me till nightfall , and perhaps a great deal longer .
There was no lack of wonderful events , as you may judge from what you have already heard .
At a certain island , they were hospitably received by King Cyzicus , its sovereign , who made a feast for them , and treated them like brothers .
But the Argonauts saw that this good king looked downcast and very much troubled , and they therefore inquired of him what was the matter .
King Cyzicus hereupon informed them that he and his subjects were greatly abused and incommoded by the inhabitants of a neighboring mountain , who made war upon them , and killed many people , and ravaged the country .
And while they were talking about it , Cyzicus pointed to the mountain , and asked Jason and his companions what they saw there .
`` I see some very tall objects , '' answered Jason ; `` but they are at such a distance that I can not distinctly make out what they are .
To tell your majesty the truth , they look so very strangely that I am inclined to think them clouds , which have chanced to take something like human shapes . ''
`` I see them very plainly , '' remarked Lynceus , whose eyes , you know , were as far-sighted as a telescope .
`` They are a band of enormous giants , all of whom have six arms apiece , and a club , a sword , or some other weapon in each of their hands . ''
`` You have excellent eyes , '' said King Cyzicus .
`` Yes ; they are six-armed giants , as you say , and these are the enemies whom I and my subjects have to contend with . ''
The next day , when the Argonauts were about setting sail , down came these terrible giants , stepping a hundred yards at a stride , brandishing their six arms apiece , and looking formidable , so far aloft in the air .
Each of these monsters was able to carry on a whole war by himself , for with one arm he could fling immense stones , and wield a club with another , and a sword with a third , while the fourth was poking a long spear at the enemy , and the fifth and sixth were shooting him with a bow and arrow .
But , luckily , though the giants were so huge , and had so many arms , they had each but one heart , and that no bigger nor braver than the heart of an ordinary man .
Besides , if they had been like the hundred-armed Briareus , the brave Argonauts would have given them their hands full of fight .
Jason and his friends went boldly to meet them , slew a great many , and made the rest take to their heels , so that if the giants had had six legs apiece instead of six arms , it would have served them better to run away with .
Another strange adventure happened when the voyagers came to Thrace , where they found a poor blind king , named Phineus , deserted by his subjects , and living in a very sorrowful way , all by himself : On Jason 's inquiring whether they could do him any service , the king answered that he was terribly tormented by three great winged creatures , called Harpies , which had the faces of women , and the wings , bodies , and claws of vultures .
These ugly wretches were in the habit of snatching away his dinner , and allowed him no peace of his life .
Upon hearing this , the Argonauts spread a plentiful feast on the sea-shore , well knowing , from what the blind king said of their greediness , that the Harpies would snuff up the scent of the victuals , and quickly come to steal them away .
And so it turned out ; for , hardly was the table set , before the three hideous vulture women came flapping their wings , seized the food in their talons , and flew off as fast as they could .
But the two sons of the North Wind drew their swords , spread their pinions , and set off through the air in pursuit of the thieves , whom they at last overtook among some islands , after a chase of hundreds of miles .
The two winged youths blustered terribly at the Harpies -LRB- for they had the rough temper of their father -RRB- , and so frightened them with their drawn swords , that they solemnly promised never to trouble King Phineus again .
Then the Argonauts sailed onward and met with many other marvelous incidents , any one of which would make a story by itself .
At one time they landed on an island , and were reposing on the grass , when they suddenly found themselves assailed by what seemed a shower of steel-headed arrows .
Some of them stuck in the ground , while others hit against their shields , and several penetrated their flesh .
The fifty heroes started up , and looked about them for the hidden enemy , but could find none , nor see any spot , on the whole island , where even a single archer could lie concealed .
Still , however , the steel-headed arrows came whizzing among them ; and , at last , happening to look upward , they beheld a large flock of birds , hovering and wheeling aloft , and shooting their feathers down upon the Argonauts .
These feathers were the steel-headed arrows that had so tormented them .
There was no possibility of making any resistance ; and the fifty heroic Argonauts might all have been killed or wounded by a flock of troublesome birds , without ever setting eyes on the Golden Fleece , if Jason had not thought of asking the advice of the oaken image .
So he ran to the galley as fast as his legs would carry him .
`` O , daughter of the Speaking Oak , '' cried he , all out of breath , `` we need your wisdom more than ever before !
We are in great peril from a flock of birds , who are shooting us with their steel-pointed feathers .
What can we do to drive them away ? ''
`` Make a clatter on your shields , '' said the image .
On receiving this excellent counsel , Jason hurried back to his companions -LRB- who were far more dismayed than when they fought with the six-armed giants -RRB- , and bade them strike with their swords upon their brazen shields .
Forthwith the fifty heroes set heartily to work , banging with might and main , and raised such a terrible clatter , that the birds made what haste they could to get away ; and though they had shot half the feathers out of their wings , they were soon seen skimming among the clouds , a long distance off , and looking like a flock of wild geese .
Orpheus celebrated this victory by playing a triumphant anthem on his harp , and sang so melodiously that Jason begged him to desist , lest , as the steel-feathered birds had been driven away by an ugly sound , they might be enticed back again by a sweet one .
While the Argonauts remained on this island , they saw a small vessel approaching the shore , in which were two young men of princely demeanor , and exceedingly handsome , as young princes generally were , in those days .
Now , who do you imagine these two voyagers turned out to be ?
Why , if you will believe me , they were the sons of that very Phrixus , who , in his childhood , had been carried to Colchis on the back of the golden-fleeced ram .
Since that time , Phrixus had married the king 's daughter ; and the two young princes had been born and brought up at Colchis , and had spent their play-days in the outskirts of the grove , in the center of which the Golden Fleece was hanging upon a tree .
They were now on their way to Greece , in hopes of getting back a kingdom that had been wrongfully taken from their father .
When the princes understood whither the Argonauts were going , they offered to turn back , and guide them to Colchis .
At the same time , however , they spoke as if it were very doubtful whether Jason would succeed in getting the Golden Fleece .
According to their account , the tree on which it hung was guarded by a terrible dragon , who never failed to devour , at one mouthful , every person who might venture within his reach .
`` There are other difficulties in the way , '' continued the young princes .
`` But is not this enough ?
Ah , brave Jason , turn back before it is too late .
It would grieve us to the heart , if you and your nine and forty brave companions should be eaten up , at fifty mouthfuls , by this execrable dragon . ''
`` My young friends , '' quietly replied Jason , `` I do not wonder that you think the dragon very terrible .
You have grown up from infancy in the fear of this monster , and therefore still regard him with the awe that children feel for the bugbears and hobgoblins which their nurses have talked to them about .
But , in my view of the matter , the dragon is merely a pretty large serpent , who is not half so likely to snap me up at one mouthful as I am to cut off his ugly head , and strip the skin from his body .
At all events , turn back who may , I will never see Greece again , unless I carry with me the Golden Fleece . ''
`` We will none of us turn back ! ''
cried his nine and forty brave comrades .
`` Let us get on board the galley this instant ; and if the dragon is to make a breakfast of us , much good may it do him . ''
And Orpheus -LRB- whose custom it was to set everything to music -RRB- began to harp and sing most gloriously , and made every mother 's son of them feel as if nothing in this world were so delectable as to fight dragons , and nothing so truly honorable as to be eaten up at one mouthful , in case of the worst .
After this -LRB- being now under the guidance of the two princes , who were well acquainted with the way -RRB- , they quickly sailed to Colchis .
When the king of the country , whose name was Aetes , heard of their arrival , he instantly summoned Jason to court .
The king was a stern and cruel looking potentate ; and though he put on as polite and hospitable an expression as he could , Jason did not like his face a whit better than that of the wicked King Pelias , who dethroned his father .
`` You are welcome , brave Jason , '' said King Aetes .
`` Pray , are you on a pleasure voyage ?
-- Or do you meditate the discovery of unknown islands ?
-- or what other cause has procured me the happiness of seeing you at my court ? ''
`` Great sir , '' replied Jason , with an obeisance -- for Chiron had taught him how to behave with propriety , whether to kings or beggars -- `` I have come hither with a purpose which I now beg your majesty 's permission to execute .
King Pelias , who sits on my father 's throne -LRB- to which he has no more right than to the one on which your excellent majesty is now seated -RRB- , has engaged to come down from it , and to give me his crown and sceptre , provided I bring him the Golden Fleece .
This , as your majesty is aware , is now hanging on a tree here at Colchis ; and I humbly solicit your gracious leave to take it away . ''
In spite of himself , the king 's face twisted itself into an angry frown ; for , above all things else in the world , he prized the Golden Fleece , and was even suspected of having done a very wicked act , in order to get it into his own possession .
It put him into the worst possible humor , therefore , to hear that the gallant Prince Jason , and forty-nine of the bravest young warriors of Greece , had come to Colchis with the sole purpose of taking away his chief treasure .
`` Do you know , '' asked King Aetes , eyeing Jason very sternly , `` what are the conditions which you must fulfill before getting possession of the Golden Fleece ? ''
`` I have heard , '' rejoined the youth , `` that a dragon lies beneath the tree on which the prize hangs , and that whoever approaches him runs the risk of being devoured at a mouthful . ''
`` True , '' said the king , with a smile that did not look particularly good-natured .
`` Very true , young man .
But there are other things as hard , or perhaps a little harder , to be done before you can even have the privilege of being devoured by the dragon .
For example , you must first tame my two brazen-footed and brazen-lunged bulls , which Vulcan , the wonderful blacksmith , made for me .
There is a furnace in each of their stomachs ; and they breathe such hot fire out of their mouths and nostrils , that nobody has hitherto gone nigh them without being instantly burned to a small , black cinder .
What do you think of this , my brave Jason ? ''
`` I must encounter the peril , '' answered Jason , composedly , `` since it stands in the way of my purpose . ''
`` After taming the fiery bulls , '' continued King Aetes , who was determined to scare Jason if possible , `` you must yoke them to a plow , and must plow the sacred earth in the Grove of Mars , and sow some of the same dragon 's teeth from which Cadmus raised a crop of armed men .
They are an unruly set of reprobates , those sons of the dragon 's teeth ; and unless you treat them suitably , they will fall upon you sword in hand .
You and your nine and forty Argonauts , my bold Jason , are hardly numerous or strong enough to fight with such a host as will spring up . ''
`` My master Chiron , '' replied Jason , `` taught me , long ago , the story of Cadmus .
Perhaps I can manage the quarrelsome sons of the dragon 's teeth as well as Cadmus did . ''
`` I wish the dragon had him , '' muttered King Aetes to himself , `` and the four-footed pedant , his schoolmaster , into the bargain .
Why , what a foolhardy , self-conceited coxcomb he is !
We 'll see what my fire-breathing bulls will do for him .
Well , Prince Jason , '' he continued , aloud , and as complaisantly as he could , `` make yourself comfortable for to-day , and to-morrow morning , since you insist upon it , you shall try your skill at the plow . ''
While the king talked with Jason , a beautiful young woman was standing behind the throne .
She fixed her eyes earnestly upon the youthful stranger , and listened attentively to every word that was spoken ; and when Jason withdrew from the king 's presence , this young woman followed him out of the room .
`` I am the king 's daughter , '' she said to him , `` and my name is Medea .
I know a great deal of which other young princesses are ignorant , and can do many things which they would be afraid so much as to dream of .
If you will trust to me , I can instruct you how to tame the fiery bulls , and sow the dragon 's teeth , and get the Golden Fleece . ''
`` Indeed , beautiful princess , '' answered Jason , `` if you will do me this service , I promise to be grateful to you my whole life long . '' '
Gazing at Medea , he beheld a wonderful intelligence in her face .
She was one of those persons whose eyes are full of mystery ; so that , while looking into them , you seem to see a very great way , as into a deep well , yet can never be certain whether you see into the farthest depths , or whether there be not something else hidden at the bottom .
If Jason had been capable of fearing anything , he would have been afraid of making this young princess his enemy ; for , beautiful as she now looked , she might , the very next instant , become as terrible as the dragon that kept watch over the Golden Fleece .
`` Princess , '' he exclaimed , `` you seem indeed very wise and very powerful .
But how can you help me to do the things of which you speak ?
Are you an enchantress ? ''
`` Yes , Prince Jason , '' answered Medea , with a smile , `` you have hit upon the truth .
