I am an enchantress .
Circe , my father 's sister , taught me to be one , and I could tell you , if I pleased , who was the old woman with the peacock , the pomegranate , and the cuckoo staff , whom you carried over the river ; and , likewise , who it is that speaks through the lips of the oaken image , that stands in the prow of your galley .
I am acquainted with some of your secrets , you perceive .
It is well for you that I am favorably inclined ; for , otherwise , you would hardly escape being snapped up by the dragon . ''
`` I should not so much care for the dragon , '' replied Jason , `` if I only knew how to manage the brazen-footed and fiery-lunged bulls . ''
`` If you are as brave as I think you , and as you have need to be , '' said Medea , `` your own bold heart will teach you that there is but one way of dealing with a mad bull .
What it is I leave you to find out in the moment of peril .
As for the fiery breath of these animals , I have a charmed ointment here , which will prevent you from being burned up , and cure you if you chance to be a little scorched . ''
So she put a golden box into his hand , and directed him how to apply the perfumed unguent which it contained , and where to meet her at midnight .
`` Only be brave , '' added she , `` and before daybreak the brazen bulls shall be tamed . ''
The young man assured her that his heart would not fail him .
He then rejoined his comrades , and told them what had passed between the princess and himself , and warned them to be in readiness in case there might be need of their help .
At the appointed hour he met the beautiful Medea on the marble steps of the king 's palace .
She gave him a basket , in which were the dragon 's teeth , just as they had been pulled out of the monster 's jaws by Cadmus , long ago .
Medea then led Jason down the palace steps , and through the silent streets of the city , and into the royal pasture ground , where the two brazen-footed bulls were kept .
It was a starry night , with a bright gleam along the eastern edge of the sky , where the moon was soon going to show herself .
After entering the pasture , the princess paused and looked around .
`` There they are , '' said she , `` reposing themselves and chewing their fiery cuds in that farthest corner of the field .
It will be excellent sport , I assure you , when they catch a glimpse of your figure .
My father and all his court delight in nothing so much as to see a stranger trying to yoke them , in order to come at the Golden Fleece .
It makes a holiday in Colchis whenever such a thing happens .
For my part , I enjoy it immensely .
You can not imagine in what a mere twinkling of an eye their hot breath shrivels a young man into a black cinder . ''
`` Are you sure , beautiful Medea , '' asked Jason , `` quite sure , that the unguent in the gold box will prove a remedy against those terrible burns ? ''
`` If you doubt , if you are in the least afraid , '' said the princess , looking him in the face by the dim starlight , `` you had better never have been born than to go a step nigher to the bulls . ''
But Jason had set his heart steadfastly on getting the Golden Fleece ; and I positively doubt whether he would have gone back without it , even had he been certain of finding himself turned into a red-hot cinder , or a handful of white ashes , the instant he made a step farther .
He therefore let go Medea 's hand , and walked boldly forward in the direction whither she had pointed .
At some distance before him he perceived four streams of fiery vapor , regularly appearing and again vanishing , after dimly lighting up the surrounding obscurity .
These , you will understand , were caused by the breath of the brazen bulls , which was quietly stealing out of their four nostrils , as they lay chewing their cuds .
At the first two or three steps which Jason made , the four fiery streams appeared to gush out somewhat more plentifully ; for the two brazen bulls had heard his foot tramp , and were lifting up their hot noses to snuff the air .
He went a little farther , and by the way in which the red vapor now spouted forth , he judged that the creatures had got upon their feet .
Now he could see glowing sparks , and vivid jets of flame .
At the next step , each of the bulls made the pasture echo with a terrible roar , while the burning breath , which they thus belched forth , lit up the whole field with a momentary flash .
One other stride did bold Jason make ; and , suddenly as a streak of lightning , on came these fiery animals , roaring like thunder , and sending out sheets of white flame , which so kindled up the scene that the young man could discern every object more distinctly than by daylight .
Most distinctly of all he saw the two horrible creatures galloping right down upon him , their brazen hoofs rattling and ringing over the ground , and their tails sticking up stiffly into the air , as has always been the fashion with angry bulls .
Their breath scorched the herbage before them .
So intensely hot it was , indeed , that it caught a dry tree under which Jason was now standing , and set it all in a light blaze .
But as for Jason himself -LRB- thanks to Medea 's enchanted ointment -RRB- , the white flame curled around his body , without injuring him a jot more than if he had been made of asbestos .
Greatly encouraged at finding himself not yet turned into a cinder , the young man awaited the attack of the bulls .
Just as the brazen brutes fancied themselves sure of tossing him into the air , he caught one of them by the horn , and the other by his screwed-up tail , and held them in a gripe like that of an iron vice , one with his right hand , the other with his left .
Well , he must have been wonderfully strong in his arms , to be sure .
But the secret of the matter was , that the brazen bulls were enchanted creatures , and that Jason had broken the spell of their fiery fierceness by his bold way of handling them .
And , ever since that time , it has been the favorite method of brave men , when danger assails them , to do what they call `` taking the bull by the horns '' ; and to gripe him by the tail is pretty much the same thing -- that is , to throw aside fear , and overcome the peril by despising it .
It was now easy to yoke the bulls , and to harness them to the plow , which had lain rusting on the ground for a great many years gone by ; so long was it before anybody could be found capable of plowing that piece of land .
Jason , I suppose , had been taught how to draw a furrow by the good old Chiron , who , perhaps , used to allow himself to be harnessed to the plow .
At any rate , our hero succeeded perfectly well in breaking up the greensward ; and , by the time that the moon was a quarter of her journey up the sky , the plowed field lay before him , a large tract of black earth , ready to be sown with the dragon 's teeth .
So Jason scattered them broadcast , and harrowed them into the soil with a brush-harrow , and took his stand on the edge of the field , anxious to see what would happen next .
`` Must we wait long for harvest time ? ''
he inquired of Medea , who was now standing by his side .
`` Whether sooner or later , it will be sure to come , '' answered the princess .
`` A crop of armed men never fails to spring up , when the dragon 's teeth have been sown . ''
The moon was now high aloft in the heavens , and threw its bright beams over the plowed field , where as yet there was nothing to be seen .
Any farmer , on viewing it , would have said that Jason must wait weeks before the green blades would peep from among the clods , and whole months before the yellow grain would be ripened for the sickle .
But by and by , all over the field , there was something that glistened in the moonbeams , like sparkling drops of dew .
These bright objects sprouted higher , and proved to be the steel heads of spears .
Then there was a dazzling gleam from a vast number of polished brass helmets , beneath which , as they grew farther out of the soil , appeared the dark and bearded visages of warriors , struggling to free themselves from the imprisoning earth .
The first look that they gave at the upper world was a glare of wrath and defiance .
Next were seen their bright breastplates ; in every right hand there was a sword or a spear , and on each left arm a shield ; and when this strange crop of warriors had but half grown out of the earth , they struggled -- such was their impatience of restraint -- and , as it were , tore themselves up by the roots .
Wherever a dragon 's tooth had fallen , there stood a man armed for battle .
They made a clangor with their swords against their shields , and eyed one another fiercely ; for they had come into this beautiful world , and into the peaceful moonlight , full of rage and stormy passions , and ready to take the life of every human brother , in recompense of the boon of their own existence .
There have been many other armies in the world that seemed to possess the same fierce nature with the one which had now sprouted from the dragon 's teeth ; but these , in the moonlit field , were the more excusable , because they never had women for their mothers .
And how it would have rejoiced any great captain , who was bent on conquering the world , like Alexander or Napoleon , to raise a crop of armed soldiers as easily as Jason did !
For a while , the warriors stood flourishing their weapons , clashing their swords against their shields , and boiling over with the red-hot thirst for battle .
Then they began to shout -- `` Show us the enemy !
Lead us to the charge !
Death or victory ! ''
`` Come on , brave comrades !
Conquer or die ! ''
and a hundred other outcries , such as men always bellow forth on a battle field , and which these dragon people seemed to have at their tongues ' ends .
At last , the front rank caught sight of Jason , who , beholding the flash of so many weapons in the moonlight , had thought it best to draw his sword .
In a moment all the sons of the dragon 's teeth appeared to take Jason for an enemy ; and crying with one voice , `` Guard the Golden Fleece ! ''
they ran at him with uplifted swords and protruded spears .
Jason knew that it would be impossible to withstand this blood-thirsty battalion with his single arm , but determined , since there was nothing better to be done , to die as valiantly as if he himself had sprung from a dragon 's tooth .
Medea , however , bade him snatch up a stone from the ground .
`` Throw it among them quickly ! ''
cried she .
`` It is the only way to save yourself . ''
The armed men were now so nigh that Jason could discern the fire flashing out of their enraged eyes , when he let fly the stone , and saw it strike the helmet of a tall warrior , who was rushing upon him with his blade aloft .
The stone glanced from this man 's helmet to the shield of his nearest comrade , and thence flew right into the angry face of another , hitting him smartly between the eyes .
Each of the three who had been struck by the stone took it for granted that his next neighbor had given him a blow ; and instead of running any farther towards Jason , they began to fight among themselves .
The confusion spread through the host , so that it seemed scarcely a moment before they were all hacking , hewing , and stabbing at one another , lopping off arms , heads , and legs and doing such memorable deeds that Jason was filled with immense admiration ; although , at the same time , he could not help laughing to behold these mighty men punishing each other for an offense which he himself had committed .
In an incredibly short space of time -LRB- almost as short , indeed , as it had taken them to grow up -RRB- , all but one of the heroes of the dragon 's teeth were stretched lifeless on the field .
The last survivor , the bravest and strongest of the whole , had just force enough to wave his crimson sword over his head and give a shout of exultation , crying , `` Victory !
Victory !
Immortal fame ! ''
when he himself fell down , and lay quietly among his slain brethren .
And there was the end of the army that had sprouted from the dragon 's teeth .
That fierce and feverish fight was the only enjoyment which they had tasted on this beautiful earth .
`` Let them sleep in the bed of honor , '' said the Princess Medea , with a sly smile at Jason .
`` The world will always have simpletons enough , just like them , fighting and dying for they know not what , and fancying that posterity will take the trouble to put laurel wreaths on their rusty and battered helmets .
Could you help smiling , Prince Jason , to see the self-conceit of that last fellow , just as he tumbled down ? ''
`` It made me very sad , '' answered Jason , gravely .
`` And , to tell you the truth , princess , the Golden Fleece does not appear so well worth the winning , after what I have here beheld ! ''
`` You will think differently in the morning , '' said Medea .
`` True , the Golden Fleece may not be so valuable as you have thought it ; but then there is nothing better in the world ; and one must needs have an object , you know .
Come !
Your night 's work has been well performed ; and to-morrow you can inform King Aetes that the first part of your allotted task is fulfilled . ''
Agreeably to Medea 's advice , Jason went betimes in the morning to the palace of King Aetes .
Entering the presence chamber , he stood at the foot of the throne , and made a low obeisance .
`` Your eyes look heavy , Prince Jason , '' observed the king ; `` you appear to have spent a sleepless night .
I hope you have been considering the matter a little more wisely , and have concluded not to get yourself scorched to a cinder , in attempting to tame my brazen-lunged bulls . ''
`` That is already accomplished , may it please your majesty , '' replied Jason .
`` The bulls have been tamed and yoked ; the field has been plowed ; the dragon 's teeth have been sown broadcast , and harrowed into the soil ; the crop of armed warriors have sprung up , and they have slain one another , to the last man .
And now I solicit your majesty 's permission to encounter the dragon , that I may take down the Golden Fleece from the tree , and depart , with my nine and forty comrades . ''
King Aetes scowled , and looked very angry and excessively disturbed ; for he knew that , in accordance with his kingly promise , he ought now to permit Jason to win the Fleece , if his courage and skill should enable him to do so .
But , since the young man had met with such good luck in the matter of the brazen bulls and the dragon 's teeth , the king feared that he would be equally successful in slaying the dragon .
And therefore , though he would gladly have seen Jason snapped up at a mouthful , he was resolved -LRB- and it was a very wrong thing of this wicked potentate -RRB- not to run any further risk of losing his beloved Fleece .
`` You never would have succeeded in this business , young man , '' said he , `` if my undutiful daughter Medea had not helped you with her enchantments .
Had you acted fairly , you would have been , at this instant , a black cinder , or a handful of white ashes .
I forbid you , on pain of death , to make any more attempts to get the Golden Fleece .
To speak my mind plainly , you shall never set eyes on so much as one of its glistening locks . ''
Jason left the king 's presence in great sorrow and anger .
He could think of nothing better to be done than to summon together his forty-nine brave Argonauts , march at once to the Grove of Mars , slay the dragon , take possession of the Golden Fleece , get on board the Argo , and spread all sail for Iolchos .
The success of this scheme depended , it is true , on the doubtful point whether all the fifty heroes might not be snapped up , at so many mouthfuls , by the dragon .
But , as Jason was hastening down the palace steps , the Princess Medea called after him , and beckoned him to return .
Her black eyes shone upon him with such a keen intelligence , that he felt as if there were a serpent peeping out of them ; and , although she had done him so much service only the night before , he was by no means very certain that she would not do him an equally great mischief before sunset .
These enchantresses , you must know , are never to be depended upon .
`` What says King Aetes , my royal and upright father ? ''
inquired Medea , slightly smiling .
`` Will he give you the Golden Fleece , without any further risk or trouble ? ''
`` On the contrary , '' answered Jason , `` he is very angry with me for taming the brazen bulls and sowing the dragon 's teeth .
And he forbids me to make any more attempts , and positively refuses to give up the Golden Fleece , whether I slay the dragon or no . ''
`` Yes , Jason , '' said the princess , `` and I can tell you more .
Unless you set sail from Colchis before to-morrow 's sunrise , the king means to burn your fifty-oared galley , and put yourself and your forty-nine brave comrades to the sword .
But be of good courage .
The Golden Fleece you shall have , if it lies within the power of my enchantments to get it for you .
Wait for me here an hour before midnight . ''
At the appointed hour you might again have seen Prince Jason and the Princess Medea , side by side , stealing through the streets of Colchis , on their way to the sacred grove , in the center of which the Golden Fleece was suspended to a tree .
While they were crossing the pasture ground , the brazen bulls came towards Jason , lowing , nodding their heads , and thrusting forth their snouts , which , as other cattle do , they loved to have rubbed and caressed by a friendly hand .
Their fierce nature was thoroughly tamed ; and , with their fierceness , the two furnaces in their stomachs had likewise been extinguished , insomuch that they probably enjoyed far more comfort in grazing and chewing their cuds than ever before .
Indeed , it had heretofore been a great inconvenience to these poor animals , that , whenever they wished to eat a mouthful of grass , the fire out of their nostrils had shriveled it up , before they could manage to crop it .
How they contrived to keep themselves alive is more than I can imagine .
But now , instead of emitting jets of flame and streams of sulphurous vapor , they breathed the very sweetest of cow breath .
After kindly patting the bulls , Jason followed Medea 's guidance into the Grove of Mars , where the great oak trees , that had been growing for centuries , threw so thick a shade that the moonbeams struggled vainly to find their way through it .
Only here and there a glimmer fell upon the leaf-strewn earth , or now and then a breeze stirred the boughs aside , and gave Jason a glimpse of the sky , lest , in that deep obscurity , he might forget that there was one , overhead .
At length , when they had gone farther and farther into the heart of the duskiness , Medea squeezed Jason 's hand .
`` Look yonder , '' she whispered .
`` Do you see it ? ''
Gleaming among the venerable oaks , there was a radiance , not like the moonbeams , but rather resembling the golden glory of the setting sun .
It proceeded from an object , which appeared to be suspended at about a man 's height from the ground , a little farther within the wood .
`` What is it ? ''
asked Jason .
`` Have you come so far to seek it , '' exclaimed Medea , `` and do you not recognize the meed of all your toils and perils , when it glitters before your eyes ?
It is the Golden Fleece . ''
Jason went onward a few steps farther , and then stopped to gaze .
O , how beautiful it looked , shining with a marvelous light of its own , that inestimable prize which so many heroes had longed to behold , but had perished in the quest of it , either by the perils of their voyage , or by the fiery breath of the brazen-lunged bulls .
`` How gloriously it shines ! ''
cried Jason , in a rapture .
`` It has surely been dipped in the richest gold of sunset .
Let me hasten onward , and take it to my bosom . ''
`` Stay , '' said Medea , holding him back .
`` Have you forgotten what guards it ? ''
To say the truth , in the joy of beholding the object of his desires , the terrible dragon had quite slipped out of Jason 's memory .
Soon , however , something came to pass , that reminded him what perils were still to be encountered .
An antelope , that probably mistook the yellow radiance for sunrise , came bounding fleetly through the grove .
He was rushing straight towards the Golden Fleece , when suddenly there was a frightful hiss , and the immense head and half the scaly body of the dragon was thrust forth -LRB- for he was twisted round the trunk of the tree on which the Fleece hung -RRB- , and seizing the poor antelope , swallowed him with one snap of his jaws .
After this feat , the dragon seemed sensible that some other living creature was within reach , on which he felt inclined to finish his meal .
In various directions he kept poking his ugly snout among the trees , stretching out his neck a terrible long way , now here , now there , and now close to the spot where Jason and the princess were hiding behind an oak .
Upon my word , as the head came waving and undulating through the air , and reaching almost within arm 's length of Prince Jason , it was a very hideous and uncomfortable sight .
The gape of his enormous jaws was nearly as wide as the gateway of the king 's palace .
`` Well , Jason , '' whispered Medea -LRB- for she was ill natured , as all enchantresses are , and wanted to make the bold youth tremble -RRB- , `` what do you think now of your prospect of winning the Golden Fleece ? ''
Jason answered only by drawing his sword , and making a step forward .
`` Stay , foolish youth , '' said Medea , grasping his arm .
`` Do not you see you are lost , without me as your good angel ?
In this gold box I have a magic potion , which will do the dragon 's business far more effectually than your sword . ''
The dragon had probably heard the voices ; for swift as lightning , his black head and forked tongue came hissing among the trees again , darting full forty feet at a stretch .
As it approached , Medea tossed the contents of the gold box right down the monster 's wide-open throat .
Immediately , with an outrageous hiss and a tremendous wriggle -- flinging his tail up to the tip-top of the tallest tree , and shattering all its branches as it crashed heavily down again -- the dragon fell at full length upon the ground , and lay quite motionless .
`` It is only a sleeping potion , '' said the enchantress to Prince Jason .
`` One always finds a use for these mischievous creatures , sooner or later ; so I did not wish to kill him outright .
Quick !
Snatch the prize , and let us begone .
You have won the Golden Fleece . ''
Jason caught the fleece from the tree , and hurried through the grove , the deep shadows of which were illuminated as he passed by the golden glory of the precious object that he bore along .
A little way before him , he beheld the old woman whom he had helped over the stream , with her peacock beside her .
She clapped her hands for joy , and beckoning him to make haste , disappeared among the duskiness of the trees .
Espying the two winged sons of the North Wind -LRB- who were disporting themselves in the moonlight , a few hundred feet aloft -RRB- , Jason bade them tell the rest of the Argonauts to embark as speedily as possible .
But Lynceus , with his sharp eyes , had already caught a glimpse of him , bringing the Golden Fleece , although several stone walls , a hill , and the black shadows of the Grove of Mars , intervened between .
By his advice , the heroes had seated themselves on the benches of the galley , with their oars held perpendicularly , ready to let fall into the water .
As Jason drew near , he heard the Talking Image calling to him with more than ordinary eagerness , in its grave , sweet voice : `` Make haste , Prince Jason !
For your life , make haste ! ''
With one bound , he leaped aboard .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Gorgon's_Head.txt.out
INTRODUCTORY TO `` THE GORGON 'S HEAD . ''
Beneath the porch of the country-seat called Tanglewood , one fine autumnal morning , was assembled a merry party of little folks , with a tall youth in the midst of them .
They had planned a nutting expedition , and were impatiently waiting for the mists to roll up the hill-slopes , and for the sun to pour the warmth of the Indian summer over the fields and pastures , and into the nooks of the many-colored woods .
There was a prospect of as fine a day as ever gladdened the aspect of this beautiful and comfortable world .
As yet , however , the morning mist filled up the whole length and breadth of the valley , above which , on a gently sloping eminence , the mansion stood .
This body of white vapor extended to within less than a hundred yards of the house .
It completely hid everything beyond that distance , except a few ruddy or yellow tree-tops , which here and there emerged , and were glorified by the early sunshine , as was likewise the broad surface of the mist .
Four or five miles off to the southward rose the summit of Monument Mountain , and seemed to be floating on a cloud .
Some fifteen miles farther away , in the same direction , appeared the loftier Dome of Taconic , looking blue and indistinct , and hardly so substantial as the vapory sea that almost rolled over it .
The nearer hills , which bordered the valley , were half submerged , and were specked with little cloud-wreaths all the way to their tops .
On the whole , there was so much cloud , and so little solid earth , that it had the effect of a vision .
The children above-mentioned , being as full of life as they could hold , kept overflowing from the porch of Tanglewood , and scampering along the gravel-walk , or rushing across the dewy herbage of the lawn .
I can hardly tell how many of these small people there were ; not less than nine or ten , however , nor more than a dozen , of all sorts , sizes , and ages , whether girls or boys .
They were brothers , sisters , and cousins , together with a few of their young acquaintances , who had been invited by Mr. and Mrs. Pringle to spend some of this delightful weather with their own children , at Tanglewood .
I am afraid to tell you their names , or even to give them any names which other children have ever been called by ; because , to my certain knowledge , authors sometimes get themselves into great trouble by accidentally giving the names of real persons to the characters in their books .
For this reason , I mean to call them Primrose , Periwinkle , Sweet Fern , Dandelion , Blue Eye , Clover , Huckleberry , Cowslip , Squash-blossom , Milkweed , Plantain , and Buttercup ; although , to be sure , such titles might better suit a group of fairies than a company of earthly children .
It is not to be supposed that these little folks were to be permitted by their careful fathers and mothers , uncles , aunts , or grandparents , to stray abroad into the woods and fields , without the guardianship of some particularly grave and elderly person .
O no , indeed !
In the first sentence of my book , you will recollect that I spoke of a tall youth , standing in the midst of the children .
His name -- -LRB- and I shall let you know his real name , because he considers it a great honor to have told the stories that are here to be printed -RRB- -- his name was Eustace Bright .
He was a student at Williams College , and had reached , I think , at this period , the venerable age of eighteen -- years ; so that he felt quite like a grandfather towards Periwinkle , Dandelion , Huckleberry , Squash-blossom , Milkweed , and the rest , who were only half or a third as venerable as he .
A trouble in his eyesight -LRB- such as many students think it necessary to have , nowadays , in order to prove their diligence at their books -RRB- had kept him from college a week or two after the beginning of the term .
But , for my part , I have seldom met with a pair of eyes that looked as if they could see farther or better than those of Eustace Bright .
This learned student was slender , and rather pale , as all Yankee students are ; but yet of a healthy aspect , and as light and active as if he had wings to his shoes .
By the by , being much addicted to wading through streamlets and across meadows , he had put on cowhide boots for the expedition .
He wore a linen blouse , a cloth cap , and a pair of green spectacles , which he had assumed , probably , less for the preservation of his eyes , than for the dignity that they imparted to his countenance .
In either case , however , he might as well have let then alone ; for Huckleberry , a mischievous little elf , crept behind Eustace as he sat on the steps of the porch , snatched the spectacles from his nose , and clapped them on her own ; and as the student forgot to take them back , they fell off into the grass , and lay there till the next spring .
Now , Eustace Bright , you must know , had won great fame among the children , as a narrator of wonderful stories ; and though he sometimes pretended to be annoyed , when they teased him for more , and more , and always for more , yet I really doubt whether he liked anything quite so well as to tell them .
You might have seen his eyes twinkle , therefore , when Clover , Sweet Fern , Cowslip , Buttercup , and most of their playmates , besought him to relate one of his stories , while they were waiting for the mist to clear up .
`` Yes , Cousin Eustace , '' said Primrose , who was a bright girl of twelve , with laughing eyes , and a nose that turned up a little , `` the morning is certainly the best time for the stories with which you so often tire out our patience .
We shall be in less danger of hurting your feelings , by falling asleep at the most interesting points , -- as little Cowslip and I did last night ! ''
`` Naughty Primrose , '' cried Cowslip , a child of six years old ; `` I did not fall asleep , and I only shut my eyes , so as to see a picture of what Cousin Eustace was telling about .
His stories are good to hear at night , because we can dream about them asleep ; and good in the morning , too , because then we can dream about them awake .
So I hope he will tell us one this very minute . ''
`` Thank you , my little Cowslip , '' said Eustace ; `` certainly you shall have the best story I can think of , if it were only for defending me so well from that naughty Primrose .
But , children , I have already told you so many fairy tales , that I doubt whether there is a single one which you have not heard at least twice over .
I am afraid you will fall asleep in reality , if I repeat any of them again . ''
`` No , no , no ! ''
cried Blue Eye , Periwinkle , Plantain , and half a dozen others .
`` We like a story all the better for having heard it two or three tunes before . ''
And it is a truth , as regards children , that a story seems often to deepen its mark in their interest , not merely by two or three , but by numberless repetitions .
But Eustace Bright , in the exuberance of his resources , scorned to avail himself of an advantage which an older story-teller would have been glad to grasp at .
`` It would be a great pity , '' said he , `` if a man of my learning -LRB- to say nothing of original fancy -RRB- could not find a new story every day , year in and year out , for children such as you .
I will tell you one of the nursery tales that were made for the amusement of our great old grandmother , the Earth , when she was a child in frock and pinafore .
There are a hundred such ; and it is a wonder to me that they have not long ago been put into picture-books for little girls and boys .
But , instead of that , old gray-bearded grandsires pore over them , in musty volumes of Greek , and puzzle themselves with trying to find out when , and how , and for what they were made . ''
`` Well , well , well , well , Cousin Eustace ! ''
cried all the children at once ; `` talk no more about your stories , but begin . ''
`` Sit down , then , every soul of you , '' said Eustace Bright , `` and be all as still as so many mice .
At the slightest interruption , whether from great , naughty Primrose , little Dandelion , or any other , I shall bite the story short off between my teeth , and swallow the untold part .
But , in the first place , do any of you know what a Gorgon is ? ''
`` I do , '' said Primrose .
`` Then hold your tongue ! ''
rejoined Eustace , who had rather she would have known nothing about the matter .
`` Hold all your tongues , and I shall tell you a sweet pretty story of a Gorgon 's head . ''
And so he did , as you may begin to read on the next page .
Working up his sophomorical erudition with a good deal of tact , and incurring great obligations to Professor Anthon , he , nevertheless , disregarded all classical authorities , whenever the vagrant audacity of his imagination impelled him to do so .
THE GORGON 'S HEAD .
Perseus was the son of Danae , who was the daughter of a king .
And when Perseus was a very little boy , some wicked people put his mother and himself into a chest , and set them afloat upon the sea .
The wind blew freshly , and drove the chest away from the shore , and the uneasy billows tossed it up and down ; while Danae clasped her child closely to her bosom , and dreaded that some big wave would dash its foamy crest over them both .
The chest sailed on , however , and neither sank nor was upset ; until , when night was coming , it floated so near an island that it got entangled in a fisherman 's nets , and was drawn out high and dry upon the sand .
The island was called Seriphus , and it was reigned over by King Polydectes , who happened to be the fisherman 's brother .
This fisherman , I am glad to tell you , was an exceedingly humane and upright man .
He showed great kindness to Danae and her little boy ; and continued to befriend them , until Perseus had grown to be a handsome youth , very strong and active , and skilful in the use of arms .
Long before this time , King Polydectes had seen the two strangers -- the mother and her child -- who had come to his dominions in a floating chest .
As he was not good and kind , like his brother the fisherman , but extremely wicked , he resolved to send Perseus on a dangerous enterprise , in which he would probably be killed , and then to do some great mischief to Danae herself .
So this bad-hearted king spent a long while in considering what was the most dangerous thing that a young man could possibly undertake to perform .
At last , having hit upon an enterprise that promised to turn out as fatally as he desired , he sent for the youthful Perseus .
The young man came to the palace , and found the king sitting upon his throne .
`` Perseus , '' said King Polydectes , smiling craftily upon him , `` you are grown up a fine young man .
You and your good mother have received a great deal of kindness from myself , as well as from my worthy brother the fisherman , and I suppose you would not be sorry to repay some of it . ''
`` Please your Majesty , '' answered Perseus , `` I would willingly risk my life to do so . ''
`` Well , then , '' continued the king , still with a curving smile on his lips , `` I have a little adventure to propose to you ; and , as you are a brave and enterprising youth , you will doubtless look upon it as a great piece of good luck to have so rare an opportunity of distinguishing yourself .
You must know , my good Perseus , I think of getting married to the beautiful Princess Hippodamia ; and it is customary , on these occasions , to make the bride a present of some far-fetched and elegant curiosity .
I have been a little perplexed , I must honestly confess , where to obtain anything likely to please a princess of her exquisite taste .
But , this morning , I flatter myself , I have thought of precisely the article . ''
`` And can I assist your Majesty in obtaining it ? ''
cried Perseus , eagerly .
`` You can , if you are as brave a youth as I believe you to be , '' replied King Polydectes , with the utmost graciousness of manner .
`` The bridal gift which I have set my heart on presenting to the beautiful Hippodamia is the head of the Gorgon Medusa , with the snaky locks ; and I depend on you , my dear Perseus , to bring it to me .
So , as I am anxious to settle affairs with the princess , the sooner you go in quest of the Gorgon , the better I shall be pleased . ''
`` I will set out to-morrow morning , '' answered Perseus .
`` Pray do so , my gallant youth , '' rejoined the king .
`` And , Perseus , in cutting off the Gorgon 's head , be careful to make a clean stroke , so as not to injure its appearance .
You must bring it home in the very best condition , in order to suit the exquisite taste of the beautiful Princess Hippodamia . ''
Perseus left the palace , but was scarcely out of hearing before Polydectes burst into a laugh ; being greatly amused , wicked king that he was , to find how readily the young man fell into the snare .
The news quickly spread abroad , that Perseus had undertaken to cut off the head of Medusa with the snaky locks .
Everybody was rejoiced ; for most of the inhabitants of the island were as wicked as the king himself , and would have liked nothing better than to see some enormous mischief happen to Danae and her son .
The only good man in this unfortunate island of Seriphus appears to have been the fisherman .
As Perseus walked along , therefore , the people pointed after him , and made mouths , and winked to one another , and ridiculed him as loudly as they dared .
`` Ho , ho ! ''
cried they ; `` Medusa 's snakes will sting him soundly ! ''
Now , there were three Gorgons alive , at that period ; and they were the most strange and terrible monsters that had ever been since the world was made , or that have been seen in after days , or that are likely to be seen in all time to come .
I hardly know what sort of creature or hobgoblin to call them .
They were three sisters , and seem to have borne some distant resemblance to women , but were really a very frightful and mischievous species of dragon .
It is , indeed , difficult to imagine what hideous beings these three sisters were .
Why , instead of locks of hair , if you can believe me , they had each of them a hundred enormous snakes growing on their heads , all alive , twisting , wriggling , curling , and thrusting out their venomous ' tongues , with forked stings at the end !
The teeth of the Gorgons were terribly long tusks ; their hands were made of brass ; and their bodies were all over scales , which , if not iron , were something as hard and impenetrable .
They had wings , too , and exceedingly splendid ones , I can assure you ; for every feather in them was pure , bright , glittering , burnished gold , and they looked very dazzlingly , no doubt , when the Gorgons were flying about in the sunshine .
But when people happened to catch a glimpse of their glittering brightness , aloft in the air , they seldom stopped to gaze , but ran and hid themselves as speedily as they could .
You will think , perhaps , that they were afraid of being stung by the serpents that served the Gorgons instead of hair , -- or of having their heads bitten off by their ugly tusks , -- or of being torn all to pieces by their brazen claws .
Well , to be sure , these were some of the dangers , but by no means the greatest , nor the most difficult to avoid .
For the worst thing about these abominable Gorgons was , that , if once a poor mortal fixed his eyes full upon one of their faces , he was certain , that very instant , to be changed from warm flesh and blood into cold and lifeless stone !
Thus , as you will easily perceive , it was a very dangerous adventure that the wicked King Polydectes had contrived for this innocent young man .
Perseus himself , when he had thought over the matter , could not help seeing that he had very little chance of coming safely through it , and that he was far more likely to become a stone image than to bring back the head of Medusa with the snaky locks .
For , not to speak of other difficulties , there was one which it would have puzzled an older man than Perseus to get over .
Not only must he fight with and slay this golden-winged , iron-scaled , long-tusked , brazen-clawed , snaky-haired monster , but he must do it with his eyes shut , or , at least , without so much as a glance at the enemy with whom he was contending .
Else , while his arm was lifted to strike , he would stiffen into stone , and stand with that uplifted arm for centuries , until time , and the wind and weather , should crumble him quite away .
This would be a very sad thing to befall a young mail who wanted to perform a great many brave deeds , and to enjoy a great deal of happiness , in this bright and beautiful world .
So disconsolate did these thoughts make him , that Perseus could not bear to tell his another what he had undertaken to do .
He therefore took his shield , girded on his sword , and crossed over from the island to the mainland , where he sat down in a solitary place , and hardly refrained from shedding tears .
But , while he was in this sorrowful mood , he heard a voice close beside him .
`` Perseus , '' said the voice , `` why are you sad ? ''
He lifted his head from his hands , in which he had hidden it , and , behold !
all alone as Perseus had supposed himself to be , there was a stranger in the solitary place .
It was a brisk , intelligent , and remarkably shrewd-looking young man , with a cloak over his shoulders , an odd sort of cap on his head , a strangely twisted staff in his hand , and a short and very crooked sword hanging by his side .
He was exceedingly light and active in his figure , like a person much accustomed to gymnastic exercises , and well able to leap or run .
Above all , the stranger had such a cheerful , knowing , and helpful aspect -LRB- though it was certainly a little mischievous , into the bargain -RRB- , that Perseus could not help feeling his spirits grow livelier , as he gazed at him .
Besides , being really a courageous youth , he felt greatly ashamed that anybody should have found him with tears in his eyes , like a timid little school-boy , when , after all , there might be no occasion for despair .
So Perseus wiped his eyes , and answered the stranger pretty briskly , putting on as brave a look as he could .
`` I am not so very sad , '' said he ; `` only thoughtful about an adventure that I have undertaken . ''
`` Oho ! ''
answered the stranger .
`` Well , tell me all about it , and possibly I may be of service to you .
I have helped a good many young men through adventures that looked difficult enough beforehand .
Perhaps you may have heard of me .
I have more names than one ; but the name of Quicksilver suits me as well as any other .
Tell me what your trouble is , and we will talk the matter over , and see what can be done . ''
The stranger 's words and manner put Perseus into quite a different mood from his former one .
He resolved to tell Quicksilver all his difficulties , since he could not easily be worse off than he already was , and , very possibly , his new friend might give him some advice that would turn out well in the end .
So he let the stranger know , in few words , precisely what the case was ; -- how that King Polydeetes wanted the head of Medusa with the snaky locks as a bridal gift for the beautiful Princess Hippodamia , and how that he had undertaken to get it for him , but was afraid of being turned into stone .
`` And that would be a great pity , '' said Quicksilver , with his mischievous smile .
`` You would make a very handsome marble statue , it is true , and it would be a considerable number of centuries before you crumbled away ; but , on the whole , one would rather be a young man for a few years , than a stone image for a great many . ''
`` O , far rather ! ''
exclaimed Perseus , with the tears again standing in his eyes .
`` And , besides , what would my dear mother do , if her beloved son were turned into a stone ? ''
`` Well , well ; let us hope that the affair will not turn out so very badly , '' replied Quicksilver , in an encouraging tone .
`` I am the very person to help you , if anybody can .
My sister and myself will do our utmost to bring you safe through the adventure , ugly as it now looks . ''
`` Your sister ? ''
repeated Perseus .
`` Yes , my sister , '' said the stranger .
`` She is very wise , I promise you ; and as for myself , I generally have all my wits about me , such as they are .
If you show yourself bold and cautious , and follow our advice , you need not fear being a stone image yet awhile .
But , first of all , you must polish your shield , till you can see your face in it as distinctly as in a mirror . ''
This seemed to Perseus rather an odd beginning of the adventure ; for he thought it of far more consequence that the shield should be strong enough to defend him from the Gorgon 's brazen claws , than that it should be bright enough to show him the reflection of his face .
However , concluding that Quicksilver knew better than himself , he immediately set to work , and scrubbed the shield with so much diligence and good-will , that it very quickly shone like the moon at harvest-time .
Quicksilver looked at it with a smile , and nodded his approbation .
Then , taking off his own short and crooked sword , he girded it about Perseus , instead of the one which he had before worn .
`` No sword but mine will answer your purpose , '' observed he ; `` the blade has a most excellent temper , and will cut through iron and brass as easily as through the slenderest twig .
And now we will set out .
The next thing is to find the Three Gray Women , who will tell us where to find the Nymphs . ''
`` The Three Gray Women ! ''
cried Perseus , to whom this seemed only a new difficulty in the path of his adventure ; `` pray , who may the Three Gray Women be ?
I never heard of them before . ''
`` They are three very strange old ladies , '' said Quicksilver , laughing .
`` They have but one eye among them , and only one tooth .
Moreover , you must find them out by starlight , or in the dusk of the evening ; for they never show themselves by the light either of the sun or moon . ''
`` But , '' said Perseus , `` why should I waste my time with these Three Gray Women ?
Would it not be better to set out at once in search of the terrible Gorgons ? ''
`` No , no , '' answered his friend .
`` There are other things to be done , before you can find your way to the Gorgons .
There is nothing for it but to hunt up these old ladies ; and when we meet with them , you may be sure that the Gorgons are not a great way off .
Come , let us be stirring ! ''
Perseus , by this time , felt so much confidence in his companion 's sagacity , that he made no more objections , and professed himself ready to begin the adventure immediately .
They accordingly set out , and walked at a pretty brisk pace ; so brisk , indeed , that Perseus found it rather difficult to keep up with his nimble friend Quicksilver .
To say the truth , he had a singular idea that Quicksilver was furnished with a pair of winged shoes , which , of course , helped him along marvellously .
And then , too , when Perseus looked sideways at him , out of the corner of his eye , he seemed to see wings on the side of his head ; although , if he turned a full gaze , there were no such things to be perceived , but only an odd kind of cap .
But , at all events , the twisted staff was evidently a great convenience to Quicksilver , and enabled him to proceed so fast , that Perseus , though a remarkably active young man , began to be out of breath .
`` Here ! ''
cried Quicksilver , at last , -- for he knew well enough , rogue that he was , how hard Perseus found it to keep pace with him , -- `` take you the staff , for you need it a great deal more than I. Are there no better walkers than yourself , in the island of Seriphus ? ''
`` I could walk pretty well , '' said Perseus , glancing slyly at his companion 's feet , `` if I had only a pair of winged shoes . ''
`` We must see about getting you a pair , '' answered Quicksilver .
But the staff helped Perseus along so bravely , that he no longer felt the slightest weariness .
In fact , the stick seemed to be alive in his hand , and to lend some of its life to Perseus .
He and Quicksilver now walked onward at their ease , talking very sociably together ; and Quicksilver told so many pleasant stories about his former adventures , and how well his wits had served him on various occasions , that Perseus began to think him a very wonderful person .
He evidently knew the world ; and nobody is so charming to a young man as a friend who has that kind of knowledge .
Perseus listened the more eagerly , in the hope of brightening his own wits by what he heard .
At last , he happened to recollect that Quicksilver had spoken of a sister , who was to lend her assistance in the adventure which they were now bound upon .
`` Where is she ? ''
he inquired .
`` Shall we not meet her soon ? ''
`` All at the proper time , '' said his companion .
`` But this sister of mine , you must understand , is quite a different sort of character from myself .
She is very grave and prudent , seldom smiles , never laughs , and makes it a rule not to utter a word unless she has something particularly profound to say .
Neither will she listen to any but the wisest conversation . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
ejaculated Perseus ; `` I shall be afraid to say a syllable . ''
`` She is a very accomplished person , I assure you , '' continued Quicksilver , `` and has all the arts and sciences at her fingers ' ends .
In short , she is so immoderately wise , that many people call her wisdom personified .
But , to tell you the truth , she has hardly vivacity enough for my taste ; and I think you would scarcely find her so pleasant a travelling companion as myself .
She has her good points , nevertheless ; and you will find the benefit of them , in your encounter with the Gorgons . ''
By this time it had grown quite dusk .
They were now come to a very wild and desert place , overgrown with shaggy bushes , and so silent and solitary that nobody seemed ever to have dwelt or journeyed there .
All was waste and desolate , in the gray twilight , which grew every moment more obscure .
Perseus looked about him , rather disconsolately , and asked Quicksilver whether they had a great deal farther to go .
`` Hist !
Hist ! ''
whispered his companion .
`` Make no noise !
This is just the time and place to meet the Three Gray Women .
Be careful that they do not see you before you see them ; for , though they have but a single eye among the three , it is as sharp-sighted as half a dozen common eyes . ''
`` But what must I do , '' asked Perseus , `` when we meet them ? ''
Quicksilver explained to Perseus how the Three Gray Women managed with their one eye .
They were in the habit , it seems , of changing it from one to another , as if it had been a pair of spectacles , or -- which would have suited them better -- quizzing-glass .
When one of the three had kept the eye a certain time , she took it out of the socket and passed it to one of her sisters , whose turn it might happen to be , and who immediately clapped it into her own head , and enjoyed a peep at the visible world .
Thus it will easily be understood that only one of the Three Gray Women could see , while the other two were in utter darkness ; and , moreover , at the instant when the eye was passing from hand to hand , neither of the poor old ladies was able to see a wink .
I have heard of a great many strange things , in my day , and have witnessed not a few ; but none , it seems to me , that can compare with the oddity of these Three Gray Women , all peeping through a single eye .
So thought Perseus , likewise , and was so astonished that he almost fancied his companion was joking with him , and that there were no such old women in the world .
`` You will soon find whether I tell the truth or no , '' observed Quicksilver .
`` Hark !
hush !
Hist !
hist !
There they come , now ! ''
Perseus looked earnestly through the dusk of the evening , and there , sure enough , at no great distance off , he descried the Three Gray Women .
The light being so faint , he could not well make out what sort of figures they were ; only he discovered that they had long gray hair ; and , as they came nearer , he saw that two of them had but the empty socket of an eye , in the middle of their foreheads .
But , in the middle of the third sister 's forehead , there was a very large , bright , and piercing eye , which sparkled like a great diamond in a ring ; and so penetrating did it seem to be , that Perseus could not help thinking it must possess the gift of seeing in the darkest midnight just as perfectly as at noonday .
The sight of three persons ' eyes was melted and collected into that single one .
Thus the three old dames got along about as comfortably , upon the whole , as if they could all see at once .
She who chanced to have the eye in her forehead led the other two by the hands , peeping sharply about her , all the while ; insomuch that Perseus dreaded lest she should see right through the thick clump of bushes behind which he and Quicksilver had hidden themselves .
My stars !
it was positively terrible to be within reach of so very sharp an eye !
But , before they reached the clump of bushes , one of the Three Gray Women spoke .
`` Sister !
Sister Scarecrow ! ''
cried she , `` you have had the eye long enough .
It is my turn now ! ''
`` Let me keep it a moment longer , Sister Nightmare , '' answered Scarecrow .
`` I thought I had a glimpse of something behind that thick bush . ''
`` Well , and what of that ? ''
retorted Nightmare , peevishly .
`` Ca n't I see into a thick bush as easily as yourself ?
The eye is mine , as well as yours ; and I know the use of it as well as you , or may be a little better .
I insist upon taking a peep immediately ! ''
But here the third sister , whose name was Shakejoint , began to complain , and said that it was her turn to have the eye , and that Scarecrow and Nightmare wanted to keep it all to themselves .
To end the dispute , old Dame Scarecrow took the eye out of her forehead , and held it forth in her hand .
`` Take it , one of you , '' cried she , `` and quit this foolish quarrelling .
For my part , I shall be glad of a little thick darkness .
Take it quickly , however , or I must clap it into my own head again ! ''
Accordingly , both Nightmare and Shakejoint stretched out their hands , groping eagerly to snatch the eye out of the hand of Scarecrow .
But , being both alike blind , they could not easily find where Scarecrow 's hand was ; and Scarecrow , being now just as much in the dark as Shakejoint and Nightmare , could not at once meet either of their hands , in order to put the eye into it .
Thus -LRB- as you will see , with half an eye , my wise little auditors -RRB- , these good old dames had fallen into a strange perplexity .
For , though the eye shone and glistened like a star , as Scarecrow held it out , yet the Gray Women caught not the least glimpse of its light , and were all three in utter darkness , from too impatient a desire to see .
Quicksilver was so much tickled at beholding Shakejoint and Nightmare both groping for the eye , and each finding fault with Scarecrow and one another , that he could scarcely help laughing aloud .
`` Now is your time ! ''
he whispered to Perseus .
`` Quick , quick !
before they can clap the eye into either of their heads .
Rush out upon the old ladies , and snatch it from Scarecrow 's hand ! ''
In an instant , while the Three Gray Women were still scolding each other , Perseus leaped front behind the clump of bushes , and made himself master of the prize .
The marvellous eye , as he held it in his hand , shone very brightly , and seemed to look up into his face with a knowing air , and an expression as if it would have winked , had it been provided with a pair of eyelids for that purpose .
But the Gray Women knew nothing of what had happened ; and , each supposing that one of her sisters was in possession of the eye , they began their quarrel anew .
At last , as Perseus did not wish to put these respectable dames to greater inconvenience than was really necessary , he thought it right to explain the matter .
`` My good ladies , '' said he , `` pray do not be angry with one another .
If anybody is in fault , it is myself ; for I have the honor to hold your very brilliant and excellent eye in my own hand ! ''
`` You !
you have our eye !
And who are you ? ''
screamed the Three Gray Women , all in a breath ; for they were terribly frightened , of course , at hearing a strange voice , and discovering that their eyesight had got into the hands of they could not guess whom .
`` O , what shall we do , sisters ?
what shall we do ?
We are all in the dark !
Give us our eye !
Give us our one , precious , solitary eye !
You have two of your own Give us our eye ! ''
`` Tell them , '' whispered Quicksilver to Perseus , `` that they shall have back the eye as soon as they direct you where to find the Nymphs who have the flying slippers , the magic wallet , and the helmet of darkness . ''
`` My dear , good , admirable old ladies , '' said Perseus , addressing the Gray Women , `` there is no occasion for putting yourselves into such a fright .
I am by no means a bad young man .
You shall have back your eye , safe and sound , and as bright as ever , the moment you tell me where to find the Nymphs . ''
`` The Nymphs !
Goodness me !
sisters , what Nymphs does he mean ? ''
screamed Scarecrow .
`` There are a great many Nymphs , people say ; some that go a hunting in the woods , and some that live inside of trees , and some that have a comfortable home in fountains of water .
We know nothing at all about them .
We are three unfortunate old souls , that go wandering about in the dusk , and never had but one eye amongst us , and that one you have stolen away .
O , give it back , good stranger !
-- whoever you are , give it back ! ''
All this while the Three Gray Women were groping with their outstretched hands , and trying their utmost to get hold of Perseus .
But he took good care to keep out of their reach .
`` My respectable dames , '' said he , -- for his mother had taught him always to use the greatest civility , -- `` I hold your eye fast in my hand , and shall keep it safely for you , until you please to tell me where to find these Nymphs .
The Nymphs , I mean , who keep the enchanted wallet , the flying slippers , and the what is it ?
-- the helmet of invisibility . ''
`` Mercy on us , sisters !
what is the young man talking about ? ''
exclaimed Scarecrow , Nightmare , and Shakejoint , one to another , with great appearance of astonishment .
`` A pair of flying slippers , quoth he !
His heels would quickly fly higher than his head , if he were silly enough to put them on .
And a helmet of invisibility !
How could a helmet make him invisible , unless it were big enough for him to hide under it ?
And an enchanted wallet !
What sort of a contrivance may that be , I wonder ?
No , no , good stranger !
we can tell you nothing of these marvellous things .
You have two eyes of your own , and we have but a single one amongst us three .
You can find out such wonders better than three blind old creatures , like us . ''
Perseus , hearing them talk in this way , began really to think that the Gray Women knew nothing of the matter ; and , as it grieved him to have put them to so much trouble , he was just on the point of restoring their eye and asking pardon for his rudeness in snatching it away .
But Quicksilver caught his hand .
`` Do n't let them make a fool of you ! ''
said he .
`` These Three Gray Women are the only persons in the world that can tell you where to find the Nymphs ; and , unless you get that information , you will never succeed in cutting off the head of Medusa with the snaky locks .
Keep fast hold of the eye , and all will go well . ''
As it turned out , Quicksilver was in the right .
There are but few things that people prize so much as they do their eyesight ; and the Gray Women valued their single eye as highly as if it had been half a dozen , which was the number they ought to have had .
Finding that there was no other way of recovering it , they at last told Perseus what he wanted to know .
No sooner had they done so , than he immediately , and with the utmost respect , clapped the eye into the vacant socket in one of their foreheads , thanked them for their kindness , and bade them farewell .
Before the young man was out of hearing , however , they had got into a new dispute , because he happened to have given the eye to Scarecrow , who had already taken her turn of it when their trouble with Perseus commenced .
It is greatly to be feared that the Three Gray Women were very much in the habit of disturbing their mutual harmony by bickerings of this sort ; which was the more pity , as they could not conveniently do without one another , and were evidently intended to be inseparable companions .
As a general rule , I would advise all people , whether sisters or brothers , old or young , who chance to have but one eye amongst them , to cultivate forbearance , and not all insist upon peeping through it at once .
Quicksilver and Perseus , in the mean time , were making the best of their way in quest of the Nymphs .
The old dames had given them such particular directions , that they were not long in finding them out .
They proved to be very different persons from Nightmare Shakejoint , and Scarecrow ; for , instead of being old , they were young and beautiful ; and instead of one eye amongst the sisterhood , each Nymph had two exceedingly bright eyes of her own , with which she looked very kindly at Perseus .
They seemed to be acquainted with Quicksilver ; and when he told them the adventure which Perseus had undertaken , they made no difficulty about giving him the valuable articles that were in their custody .
In the first place , they brought out what appeared to be a small purse , made of deer-skin , and curiously embroidered , and bade him be sure and keep it safe .
This was the magic wallet .
The Nymphs next produced a pair of shoes , or slippers , or sandals , with a nice little pair of wings at the heel of each .
`` Put them on , Perseus , '' said Quicksilver .
`` You will find yourself as light-heeled as you can desire , for the remainder of our journey . ''
So Perseus proceeded to put one of the slippers on , while he laid the other on the ground by his side .
Unexpectedly , however , this other slipper spread its wings , fluttered up off the ground , and would probably have flown away , if Quicksilver had not made a leap , and luckily caught it in the air .
`` Be more careful , '' said he , as he gave it back to Perseus .
`` It would frighten the birds , up aloft , if they should see a flying slipper amongst them . ''
When Perseus had got on both of these wonderful slippers , he was altogether too buoyant to tread on earth .
Making a step or two , lo and behold !
upward he popt into the air , high above the heads of Quicksilver and the Nymphs , and found it very difficult to clamber down again .
Winged slippers , and all such high-flying contrivances , are seldom quite easy to manage , until one grows a little accustomed to them .
Quicksilver laughed at his companion 's involuntary activity , and told him that he must not be in so desperate a hurry , but must wait for the invisible helmet .
The good-natured Nymphs had the helmet , with its dark tuft of waving plumes , all in readiness to put upon his head .
And now there happened about as wonderful an incident as anything that I have yet told you .
The instant before the helmet was put on , there stood Perseus , a beautiful young man , with golden ringlets and rosy cheeks , the crooked sword by his side , and the brightly polished shield upon his arm , -- a figure that seemed all made up of courage , sprightliness , and glorious light .
But when the helmet had descended over his white brow , there was no longer any Perseus to be seen !
Nothing but empty air !
Even the helmet , that covered him with its invisibility , had vanished !
`` Where are you , Perseus ? ''
asked Quicksilver .
`` Why , here , to be sure ! ''
answered Perseus , very quietly , although his voice seemed to come out of the transparent atmosphere .
`` Just where I was a moment ago .
Do n't you see me ? ''
`` No , indeed ! ''
answered his friend .
`` You are hidden under the helmet .
But , if I can not see you , neither can the Gorgons .
Follow me , therefore , and we will try your dexterity in using the winged slippers . ''
With these words , Quicksilver 's cap spread its wings , as if his head were about to fly away from his shoulders ; but his whole figure rose lightly into the air , and Perseus followed .
By the time they had ascended a few hundred feet , the young man began to feel what a delightful thing it was to leave the dull earth so far beneath him , and to be able to flit about like a bird .
It was now deep night .
Perseus looked upward , and saw the round , bright , silvery moon , and thought that he should desire nothing better than to soar up thither , and spend his life there .
Then he looked downward again , and saw the earth , with its seas , and lakes , and the silver courses of its rivers , and its snowy mountain-peaks , and the breadth of its fields , and the dark cluster of its woods , and its cities of white marble ; and , with the moonshine sleeping over the whole scene , it was as beautiful as the moon or any star could be .
And , among other objects , he saw the island of Seriplius , where his dear mother was .
Sometimes , he and Quicksilver approached a cloud , that , at a distance , looked as if it were made of fleecy silver ; although , when they plunged into it , they found themselves chilled and moistened with gray mist .
So swift was their flight , however , that , in an instant , they emerged from the cloud into the moonlight again .
Once , a high-soaring eagle flew right against the invisible Perseus .
The bravest sights were the meteors , that gleamed suddenly out , as if a bonfire had been kindled in the sky , and made the moonshine pale for as much as a hundred miles around them .
As the two companions flew onward , Perseus fancied that he could hear the rustle of a garment close by his side ; and it was on the side opposite to the one where he beheld Quicksilver , yet only Quicksilver was visible .
`` Whose garment is this , '' inquired Perseus , `` that keeps rustling close beside me , in the breeze ? ''
`` O , it is my sister 's ! ''
answered Quicksilver .
`` She is coming along with us , as I told you she would .
We could do nothing without the help of my sister .
You have no idea how wise she is .
She has such eyes , too !
Why , she can see you , at this moment , just as distinctly as if you were not invisible ; and I 'll venture to say , she will be the first to discover the Gorgons . ''
By this time , in their swift voyage through the air , they had come within sight of the great ocean , and were soon flying over it .
Far beneath them , the waves tossed themselves tumultuously in mid-sea , or rolled a white surf-line upon the long beaches , or foamed against the rocky cliffs , with a roar that was thunderous , in the lower world ; although it became a gentle murmur , like the voice of a baby half asleep , before it reached the ears of Perseus .
Just then a voice spoke in the air close by him .
It seemed to be a woman 's voice , and was melodious , though not exactly what might be called sweet , but grave and mild .
`` Perseus , '' said the voice , `` there are the Gorgons . ''
`` Where ? ''
exclaimed Perseus .
`` I can not see them . ''
`` On the shore of that island beneath you , '' replied the voice .
`` A pebble , dropped from your hand , would strike in the midst of them . ''
`` I told you she would be the first to discover them , '' said Quicksilver to Perseus .
`` And there they are ! ''
Straight downward , two or three thousand feet below him , Perseus perceived a small island , with the sea breaking into white foam all around its rocky shore , except on one side , where there was a beach of snowy sand .
He descended towards it , and , looking earnestly at a cluster or heap of brightness , at the foot of a precipice of black rocks , behold , there were the terrible Gorgons !
They lay fast asleep , soothed by the thunder of the sea ; for it required a tumult that would have deafened everybody else to lull such fierce creatures into slumber .
The moonlight glistened on their steely scales , and on their golden wings , which drooped idly over the sand .
Their brazen claws , horrible to look at , were thrust out , and clutched the wave-beaten fragments of rock , while the sleeping Gorgons dreamed of tearing some poor mortal all to pieces .
The snakes that served them instead of hair seemed likewise to be asleep ; although , now and then , one would writhe , and lift its head , and thrust out its forked tongue , emitting a drowsy hiss , and then let itself subside among its sister snakes .
The Gorgons were more like an awful , gigantic kind of insect , -- immense , golden-winged beetles , or dragon-flies , or things of that sort , -- at once ugly and beautiful , -- than like anything else ; only that they were a thousand and a million times as big .
And , with all this , there was something partly human about them , too .
Luckily for Perseus , their faces were completely hidden from him by the posture in which they lay ; for , had he but looked one instant at them , he would have fallen heavily out of the air , an image of senseless stone .
`` Now , '' whispered Quicksilver , as he hovered by the side of Perseus , -- `` now is your time to do the deed !
Be quick ; for , if one of the Gorgons should awake , you are too late ! ''
`` Which shall I strike at ? ''
asked Perseus , drawing his sword and descending a little lower .
`` They all three look alike .
All three have snaky locks .
Which of the three is Medusa ? ''
It must be understood that Medusa was the only one of these dragon-monsters whose head Perseus could possibly cut off .
As for the other two , let him have the sharpest sword that ever was forged , and he might have hacked away by the hour together , without doing there the least harm .
`` Be cautious , '' said the calm voice which had before spoken to him .
`` One of the Gorgons is stirring in her sleep , and is just about to turn over .
That is Medusa .
Do not look at her !
The sight would turn you to stone !
Look at the reflection of her face and figure in the bright mirror of your shield . ''
Perseus now understood Quicksilver 's motive for so earnestly exhorting him to polish his shield .
In its surface he could safely look at the reflection of the Gorgon 's face .
And there it was , -- that terrible countenance , -- mirrored in the brightness of the shield , with the moonlight falling over it , and displaying all its horror .
The snakes , whose venomous natures could not altogether sleep , kept twisting themselves over the forehead .
It was the fiercest and most horrible face that ever was seen or imagined , and yet with a strange , fearful , and savage kind of beauty in it .
The eyes were closed , and the Gorgon was still in a deep slumber ; but there was an unquiet expression disturbing her features , as if the monster was troubled with an ugly dream .
She gnashed her white tusks , and dug into the sand with her brazen claws .
The snakes , too , seemed to feel Medusa 's dream , and to be made more restless by it .
They twined themselves into tumultuous knots , writhed fiercely , and uplifted a hundred hissing heads , without opening their eyes .
`` Now , now ! ''
whispered Quicksilver , who was growing impatient .
`` Make a dash at the monster ! ''
`` But be calm , '' said the grave , melodious voice , at the young man 's side .
`` Look in your shield , as you fly downward , and take care that you do not miss your first stroke . ''
Perseus flew cautiously downward , still keeping his eyes on Medusa 's face , as reflected in his shield .
The nearer he came , the more terrible did the snaky visage and metallic body of the monster grow .
At last , when he found himself hovering over her within arm 's length , Perseus uplifted his sword , while , at the same instant , each separate snake upon the Gorgon 's head stretched threateningly upward , and Medusa unclosed her eyes .
But she awoke too late .
The sword was sharp ; the stroke fell like a lightning-flash ; and the head of the wicked Medusa tumbled from her body !
`` Admirably done ! ''
cried Quicksilver .
`` Make haste , and clap the head into your magic wallet . ''
To the astonishment of Perseus , the small , embroidered wallet , which he had hung about his neck , and which had hitherto been no bigger than a purse , grew all at once large enough to contain Medusa 's head .
As quick as thought , he snatched it up , with the snakes still writhing upon it , and thrust it in .
`` Your task is done , '' said the calm voice .
`` Now fly ; for the other Gorgons will do their utmost to take vengeance for Medusa 's death . ''
It was , indeed , necessary to take flight ; for Perseus had not done the deed so quietly , but that the clash of his sword , and the hissing of the snakes , and the thump of Medusa 's head as it tumbled upon the sea-beaten sand , awoke the other two monsters .
There they sat , for an instant , sleepily rubbing their eyes with their brazen fingers , while all the snakes on their heads reared themselves on end with surprise , and with venomous malice against they knew not what .
But when the Gorgons saw the scaly carcass of Medusa , headless , and her golden wings all ruffled , and half spread out on the sand , it was really awful to hear what yells and screeches they set up .
And then the snakes !
They sent forth a hundred-fold hiss , with one consent , and Medusa 's snakes answered them out of the magic wallet .
No sooner were the Gorgons broad awake , than they hurtled upward into the air , brandishing their brass talons , gnashing their horrible tusks , and flapping their huge wings so wildly , that some of the golden feathers were shaken out , and floated down upon the shore .
And there , perhaps , those very feathers he scattered , till this day .
Up rose the Gorgons , as I tell you , staring horribly about , in hopes of turning somebody to stone .
Had Perseus looked them in the face , or had he fallen into their clutches , his poor mother would never have kissed her boy again !
But he took good care to turn his eyes another way ; and , as he wore the helmet of invisibility , the Gorgons knew not in what direction to follow him ; nor did he fail to make the best use of the winged slippers , by soaring upward a perpendicular mile or so .
At that height , when the screams of those abominable creatures sounded faintly beneath him , he made a straight course for the island of Seriphus , in order to carry Medusa 's head to King Polydectes .
I have no time to tell you of several marvellous things that befell Perseus , on his way homeward ; such as his killing a hideous sea-monster , just as it was on the point of devouring a beautiful maiden ; nor how he changed an enormous giant into a mountain of stone , merely by showing him the head of the Gorgon .
If you doubt this latter story , you may make a voyage to Africa , some day or other , and see the very mountain , which is still known by the ancient giant 's name .
Finally , our brave Perseus arrived at the island , where he expected to see his dear mother .
But , during his absence , the wicked king had treated Danae so very ill , that she was compelled to make her escape , and had taken refuge in a temple , where some good old priests were extremely kind to her .
These praiseworthy priests , and the kind-hearted fisherman , who had first shown hospitality to Danae and little Perseus when he found them afloat in the chest , seem to have been the only persons on the island who cared about doing right .
All the rest of the people , as well as King Polydectes himself , were remarkably ill-behaved , and deserved no better destiny than that which was now to happen .
Not finding his mother at home , Perseus went straight to the palace and was immediately ushered into the presence of the king .
Polydectes was by no means rejoiced to see him ; for he had felt almost certain , in his own evil mind , that the Gorgons would have torn the poor young man to pieces , and have eaten him up , out of the way .
However , seeing him safely returned , he put the best face he could upon the matter and asked Perseus how he had succeeded .
`` Have you performed your promise ? ''
inquired he .
`` Have you brought me the head of Medusa with the snaky locks ?
If not , young man , it will cost you dear ; for I must have a bridal present for the beautiful Princess Hippodamia , and there is nothing else that she would admire so much . ''
`` Yes , please your Majesty , '' answered Perseus , in a quiet way , as if it were no very wonderful deed for such a young man as he to perform .
`` I have brought you the Gorgon 's head , snaky locks and all ! ''
`` Indeed !
Pray let me see it , '' quoth King Polydectes .
`` It must be a very curious spectacle , if all that travellers tell about it be true ! ''
`` Your Majesty is in the right , '' replied Perseus .
`` It is really an object that will be pretty certain to fix the regards of all who look at it .
And , if your Majesty think fit , I would suggest that a holiday be proclaimed , and that all your Majesty 's subjects be summoned to behold this wonderful curiosity .
Few of them , I imagine , have seen a Gorgon 's head before , and perhaps never may again ! ''
The king well knew that his subjects were an idle set of reprobates , and very fond of sight-seeing , as idle persons usually are .
So he took the young man 's advice , and sent out heralds and messengers , in all directions , to blow the trumpet at the street-corners , and in the market-places , and wherever two roads met , and summon everybody to court .
Thither , accordingly , came a great multitude of good-for-nothing vagabonds , all of whom , out of pure love of mischief , would have been glad if Perseus had met with some ill-hap , in his encounter with the Gorgons .
If there were any better people in the island -LRB- as I really hope there may have been , although the story tells nothing about any such -RRB- , they stayed quietly at home , minding their own business , and taking care of their little children .
Most of the inhabitants , at all events , ran as fast as they could to the palace , and shoved , and pushed , and elbowed one another , in their eagerness to get near a balcony , on which Perseus showed himself , holding the embroidered wallet in his hand .
On a platform , within full view of the balcony , sat the mighty King Polydectes , amid his evil counsellors , and with his flattering courtiers in a semicircle round about him .
Monarch , counsellors , courtiers , and subjects , all gazed eagerly towards Perseus .
`` Show us the head !
Show us the head ! ''
shouted the people ; and there was a fierceness in their cry as if they would tear Perseus to pieces , unless he should satisfy them with what he had to show .
`` Show us the head of Medusa with the snaky locks ! ''
A feeling of sorrow and pity came over the youthful Perseus .
`` O King Polydectes , '' cried he , `` and ye many people , I am very loath to show you the Gorgon 's head ! ''
`` Ah , the villain and coward ! ''
yelled the people , more fiercely than before .
`` He is making game of us !
He has no Gorgon 's head !
Show us the head , if you have it , or we will take your own head for a football ! ''
The evil counsellors whispered bad advice in the king 's ear ; the courtiers murmured , with one consent , that Perseus had shown disrespect to their royal lord and master ; and the great King Polydectes himself waved his hand , and ordered him , with the stern , deep voice of authority , on his peril , to produce the bead .
`` Show me the Gorgon 's head , or I will cut off your own ! ''
And Perseus sighed .
`` This instant , '' repeated Polydectes , `` or you die ! ''
`` Behold it , then ! ''
cried Perseus , in a voice like the blast of a trumpet .
And , suddenly holding up the head , not an eyelid had time to wink before the wicked King Polydectes , his evil counsellors , and all his fierce subjects were no longer anything but the mere images of a monarch and his people .
They were all fixed , forever , in the look and attitude of that moment !
At the first glimpse of the terrible head of Medusa , they whitened into marble !
And Perseus thrust the head back into his wallet , and went to tell his dear mother that she need no longer be afraid of the wicked King Polydectes .
TANGLEWOOD PORCH .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` Is not that a very fine story ? ''
asked Eustace .
`` O yes , yes ! ''
cried Cowslip , clapping her hands .
`` And those funny old women , with only one eye amongst them !
I never heard of anything so strange . ''
`` As to their one tooth , which they shifted about , '' observed Primrose , `` there was nothing so very wonderful in that .
I suppose it was a false tooth .
But think of your turning Mercury into Quicksilver , and talking about his sister !
You are too ridiculous ! ''
`` And was she not his sister ? ''
asked Eustace Bright .
`` If I had thought of it sooner , I would have described her as a maiden lady , who kept a pet owl ! ''
`` Well , at any rate , '' said Primrose , `` your story seems to have driven away the mist . ''
And , indeed , while the tale was going forward , the vapors had been quite exhaled from the landscape .
A scene was now disclosed which the spectators might almost fancy as having been created since they had last looked in the direction where it lay .
About half a mile distant , in the lap of the valley , now appeared a beautiful lake , which reflected a perfect image of its own wooded banks , and of the summits of the more distant hills .
It gleamed in glassy tranquillity , without the trace of a winged breeze on any part of its bosom .
Beyond its farther shore was Monument Mountain , in a recumbent position , stretching almost across the valley .
Eustace Bright compared it to a huge , headless sphinx , wrapped in a Persian shawl ; and , indeed , so rich and diversified was the autumnal foliage of its woods , that the simile of the shawl was by no means too high-colored for the reality .
In the lower ground , between Tanglewood and the lake , the clumps of trees and borders of woodland were chiefly golden-leaved or dusky brown , as having suffered more from frost than the foliage on the hillsides .
Over all this scene there was a genial sunshine , intermingled with a slight haze , which made it unspeakably soft and tender .
O , what a day of Indian summer was it going to be !
The children snatched their baskets , and set forth , with hop , skip , and jump , and all sorts of frisks and gambols ; while Cousin Eustace proved his fitness to preside over the party , by outdoing all their antics , and performing several new capers , which none of them could ever hope to imitate .
Behind went a good old dog , whose name was Ben .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Lily's_Quest_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
Two lovers , once upon a time , had planned a little summer-house , in the form of an antique temple , which it was their purpose to consecrate to all manner of refined and innocent enjoyments .
There they would hold pleasant intercourse with one another , and the circle of their familiar friends ; there they would give festivals of delicious fruit ; there they would hear lightsome music , intermingled with the strains of pathos which make joy more sweet ; there they would read poetry and fiction , and permit their own minds to flit away in daydreams and romance ; there , in short , -- for why should we shape out the vague sunshine of their hopes ?
-- there all pure delights were to cluster like roses among the pillars of the edifice , and blossom ever new and spontaneously .
So , one breezy and cloudless afternoon , Adam Forrester and Lilias Fay set out upon a ramble over the wide estate which they were to possess together , seeking a proper site for their Temple of Happiness .
They were themselves a fair and happy spectacle , fit priest and priestess for such a shrine ; although , making poetry of the pretty name of Lilias , Adam Forrester was wont to call her LILY , because her form was as fragile , and her cheek almost as pale .
As they passed , hand in hand , down the avenue of drooping elms , that led from the portal of Lilies Fay 's paternal mansion , they seemed to glance like winged creatures through the strips of sunshine , and to scatter brightness where the deep shadows fell .
But , setting forth at the same time with this youthful pair , there was a dismal figure , wrapped in a black velvet cloak that might have been made of a coffin pall , and with a sombre hat , such as mourners wear , drooping its broad brim over his heavy brows .
Glancing behind them , the lovers well knew who it was that followed , but wished from their hearts that he had been elsewhere , as being a companion so strangely unsuited to their joyous errand .
It was a near relative of Lilies Fay , an old man by the name of Walter Gascoigne , who had long labored under the burden of a melancholy spirit , which was sometimes maddened into absolute insanity , and always had a tinge of it .
What a contrast between the young pilgrims of bliss and their unbidden associate !
They looked as if moulded of Heaven 's sunshine , and he of earth 's gloomiest shade ; they flitted along like Hope and Joy , roaming hand in hand through life ; while his darksome figure stalked behind , a type of all the woeful influences which life could fling upon them .
But the three had not gone far , when they reached a spot that pleased the gentle Lily , and she paused .
`` What sweeter place shall we find than this ? ''
said she .
`` Why should we seek farther for the site of our Temple ? ''
It was indeed a delightful spot of earth , though undistinguished by any very prominent beauties , being merely a nook in the shelter of a hill , with the prospect of a distant lake in one direction , and of a church-spire in another .
There were vistas and pathways leading onward and onward into the green woodlands , and vanishing away in the glimmering shade .
The Temple , if erected here , would look towards the west : so that the lovers could shape all sorts of magnificent dreams out of the purple , violet , and gold of the sunset sky ; and few of their anticipated pleasures were dearer than this sport of fantasy .
`` Yes , '' said Adam Forrester , `` we might seek all day , and find no lovelier spot .
We will build our Temple here . ''
But their sad old companion , who had taken his stand on the very site which they proposed to cover with a marble floor , shook his head and frowned ; and the young man and the Lily deemed it almost enough to blight the spot , and desecrate it for their airy Temple , that his dismal figure had thrown its shadow there .
He pointed to some scattered stones , the remnants of a former structure , and to flowers such as young girls delight to nurse in their gardens , but which had now relapsed into the wild simplicity of nature .
`` Not here ! ''
cried old Walter Gascoigne .
`` Here , long ago , other mortals built their Temple of Happiness .
Seek another site for yours ! ''
`` What ! ''
exclaimed Lilias Fay .
`` Have any ever planned such a Temple , save ourselves ? ''
`` Poor child ! ''
said her gloomy kinsman .
`` In one shape or other , every mortal has dreamed your dream . ''
Then he told the lovers , how -- not , indeed , an antique Temple -- but a dwelling had once stood there , and that a dark-clad guest had dwelt among its inmates , sitting forever at the fireside , and poisoning all their household mirth .
Under this type , Adam Forrester and Lilias saw that the old man spake of Sorrow .
He told of nothing that might not be recorded in the history of almost every household ; and yet his hearers felt as if no sunshine ought to fall upon a spot where human grief had left so deep a stain ; or , at least , that no joyous Temple should be built there .
`` This is very sad , '' said the Lily ; sighing .
`` Well , there are lovelier spots than this , '' said Adam Forrester , soothingly , -- `` spots which sorrow has not blighted . ''
So they hastened away , and the melancholy Gascoigne followed them , looking as if he had gathered up all the gloom of the deserted spot , and was hearing it as a burden of inestimable treasure .
But still they rambled on , and soon found themselves in a rocky dell , through the midst of which ran a streamlet , with ripple , and foam , and a continual voice of inarticulate joy .
It was a wild retreat , walled on either side with gray precipices , which would have frowned somewhat too sternly , had not a profusion of green shrubbery rooted itself into their crevices , and wreathed gladsome foliage around their solemn brows .
But the chief joy of the dell was in the little stream , which seemed like the presence of a blissful child , with nothing earthly to do save to babble merrily and disport itself , and make every living soul its playfellow , and throw the sunny gleams of its spirit upon all .
`` Here , here is the spot ! ''
cried the two lovers with one voice , as they reached a level space on the brink of a small cascade .
`` This glen was made on purpose for our Temple ! ''
`` And the glad song of the brook will be always in our ears , '' said Lilias Fay .
`` And its long melody shall sing the bliss of our lifetime , '' said Adam Forrester .
`` Ye must build no Temple here ! ''
murmured their dismal companion .
And there again was the old lunatic , standing just on the spot where they meant to rear their lightsome dome , and looking like the embodied symbol of some great woe , that , in forgotten days , had happened there .
And , alas !
there had been woe , nor that alone .
A young man , more than a hundred years before , had lured hither a girl that loved him , and on this spot had murdered her , and washed his bloody hands in the stream which sung so merrily .
And ever since , the victim 's death-shrieks were often heard to echo between the cliffs .
`` And see ! ''
cried old Gascoigne , `` is the stream yet pure from the stain of the murderer 's hands ? ''
`` Methinks it has a tinge of blood , '' faintly answered the Lily ; and being as slight as the gossamer , she trembled and clung to her lover 's arm , whispering , `` let us flee from this dreadful vale ! ''
`` Come , then , '' said Adam Forrester , as cheerily as he could ; `` we shall soon find a happier spot . ''
They set forth again , young Pilgrims on that quest which millions -- which every child of Earth -- has tried in turn .
And were the Lily and her lover to be more fortunate than all those millions ?
For a long time , it seemed not so .
The dismal shape of the old lunatic still glided behind them ; and for every spot that looked lovely in their eyes , he had some legend of human wrong or suffering , so miserably sad , that his auditors could never afterwards connect the idea of joy with the place where it had happened .
Here , a heart-broken woman , kneeling to her child , had been spurned from his feet ; here , a desolate old creature had prayed to the Evil One , and had received a fiendish malignity of soul , in answer to her prayer ; here , a new-born infant , sweet blossom of life , had been found dead , with the impress of its mother 's fingers round its throat ; and here , under a shattered oak , two lovers had been stricken by lightning , and fell blackened corpses in each other 's arms .
The dreary Gascoigne had a gift to know whatever evil and lamentable thing had stained the bosom of Mother Earth ; and when his funereal voice had told the tale , it appeared like a prophecy of future woe , as well as a tradition of the past .
And now , by their sad demeanor , you would have fancied that the pilgrim lovers were seeking , not a temple of earthly joy , but a tomb for themselves and their posterity .
`` Where in this world , '' exclaimed Adam Forrester , despondingly , `` shall we build our Temple of Happiness ? ''
`` Where in this world , indeed ! ''
repeated Lilias Fay ; and being faint and weary , the more so by the heaviness of her heart , the Lily drooped her head and sat down on the summit of a knoll , repeating , `` Where in this world shall we build our Temple ? ''
`` Ah !
have you already asked yourselves that question ? ''
said their companion , his shaded features growing even gloomier with the smile that dwelt on them ; `` yet there is a place , even in this world , where ye may build it . ''
While the old man spoke , Adam Forrester and Lilias had carelessly thrown their eyes around , and perceived that the spot where they had chanced to pause possessed a quiet charm , which was well enough adapted to their present mood of mind .
It was a small rise of ground , with a certain regularity of shape , that had perhaps been bestowed by art ; and a group of trees , which almost surrounded it , threw their pensive shadows across and far beyond , although some softened glory of the sunshine found its way there .
The ancestral mansion , wherein the lovers would dwell together , appeared on one side , and the ivied church , where they were to worship , on another .
Happening to cast their eyes on the ground , they smiled , yet with a sense of wonder , to see that a pale lily was growing at their feet .
`` We will build our Temple here , '' said they , simultaneously , and with an indescribable conviction , that they had at last found the very spot .
Yet , while they uttered this exclamation , the young man and the Lily turned an apprehensive glance at their dreary associate , deeming it hardly possible , that some tale of earthly affliction should not make those precincts loathsome , as in every former case .
The old man stood just behind them , so as to form the chief figure in the group , with his sable cloak muffling the lower part of his visage , and his sombre list overshadowing his brows .
But he gave no word of dissent from their purpose ; and an inscrutable smile was accepted by the lovers as a token that here had been no footprint of guilt or sorrow , to desecrate the site of their Temple of Happiness .
In a little time longer , while summer was still in its prime , the fairy structure of the Temple arose on the summit of the knoll , amid the solemn shadows of the trees , yet often gladdened with bright sunshine .
It was built of white marble , with slender and graceful pillars , supporting a vaulted dome ; and beneath the centre of this dome , upon a pedestal , was a slab of dark-veined marble , on which books and music might be strewn .
But there was a fantasy among the people of the neighborhood , that the edifice was planned after an ancient mausoleum , and was intended for a tomb , and that the central slab of dark-veined marble was to be inscribed with the names of buried ones .
They doubted , too , whether the form of Lilias Fay could appertain to a creature of this earth , being so very delicate , and growing every day more fragile , so that she looked as if the summer breeze should snatch her up , and waft her heavenward .
But still she watched the daily growth of the Temple ; and so did old Walter Gascoigne , who now made that spot his continual haunt , leaning whole hours together on his staff , and giving as deep attention to the work as though it had been indeed a tomb .
In due time it was finished , and a day appointed for a simple rite of dedication .
On the preceding evening , after Adam Forrester had taken leave of his mistress , he looked back towards the portal of her dwelling , and felt a strange thrill of fear ; for he imagined that , as the setting sunbeams faded from her figure , she was exhaling away , and that something of her ethereal substance was withdrawn , with each lessening gleam of light .
With his farewell glance , a shadow had fallen over the portal , and Lilias was invisible .
His foreboding spirit deemed it an omen at the time ; and so it proved ; for the sweet earthly form , by which the Lily bad been manifested to the world , was found lifeless , the next morning , in the Temple , with her head resting on her arms , which were folded upon the slab of dark-veined marble .
The chill winds of the earth had long since breathed a blight into this beautiful flower , so that a loving hand had now transplanted it , to blossom brightly in the garden of Paradise .
But , alas for the Temple of Happiness !
In his unutterable grief , Adam Forrester had no purpose more at heart than to convert this Temple of many delightful hopes into a tomb , and bury his dead mistress there .
And to !
a wonder !
Digging a grave beneath the Temple 's marble floor , the sexton found no virgin earth , such as was meet to receive the maiden 's dust , but an ancient sepulchre , in which were treasured up the bones of generations that had died long ago .
Among those forgotten ancestors was the Lily to be laid .
And when the funeral procession brought Lilias thither in her coffin , they beheld old Walter Gascoigne standing beneath the dome of the Temple , with his cloak of pall , and face of darkest gloom ; and wherever that figure might take its stand , the spot would seem a sepulchre .
He watched the mourners as they lowered the coffin down .
`` And so , '' said he to Adam Forrester , with the strange smile in which his insanity was wont to gleam forth , `` you have found no better foundation for your happiness than on a grave ! ''
But as the Shadow of Affliction spoke , a vision of Hope and Joy had its birth in Adam 's mind , even from the old man 's taunting words ; for then he knew what was betokened by the parable in which the Lily and himself had acted ; and the mystery of Life and Death was opened to him .
`` Joy !
joy ! ''
he cried , throwing his arms towards Heaven , `` on a grave be the site of our Temple ; and now our happiness is for Eternity ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Miraculous_Pitcher.txt.out
INTRODUCTORY TO `` THE MIRACULOUS PITCHER '' And when , and where , do you think we find the children next ?
No longer in the winter-time , but in the merry month of May .
No longer in Tanglewood play-room , or at Tanglewood fireside , but more than half-way up a monstrous hill , or a mountain , as perhaps it would be better pleased to have us call it .
They had set out from home with the mighty purpose of climbing this high hill , even to the very tiptop of its bald head .
To be sure , it was not quite so high as Chimborazo , or Mont Blanc , and was even a good deal lower than old Graylock .
But , at any rate , it was higher than a thousand ant-hillocks , or a million of mole hills ; and , when measured by the short strides of little children , might be reckoned a very respectable mountain .
And was Cousin Eustace with the party ?
Of that you may be certain ; else how could the book go on a step further ?
He was now in the middle of the spring vacation , and looked pretty much as we saw him four or five months ago , except that , if you gazed quite closely at his upper lip , you could discern the funniest little bit of a mustache upon it .
Setting aside this mark of mature manhood , you might have considered Cousin Eustace just as much a boy as when you first became acquainted with him .
He was as merry , as playful , as good-humored , as light of foot and of spirits , and equally a favorite with the little folks , as he had always been .
This expedition up the mountain was entirely of his contrivance .
All the way up the steep ascent , he had encouraged the elder children with his cheerful voice ; and when Dandelion , Cowslip , and Squash-blossom grew weary , he had lugged them along , alternately , on his back .
In this manner , they had passed through the orchards and pastures on the lower part of the hill , and had reached the wood , which extends thence towards its bare summit .
The month of May , thus far , had been more amiable than it often is , and this was as sweet and genial a day as the heart of man or child could wish .
In their progress up the hill , the small people had found enough of violets , blue and white , and some that were as golden as if they had the touch of Midas on them .
That sociablest of flowers , the little Housatonia , was very abundant .
It is a flower that never lives alone , but which loves its own kind , and is always fond of dwelling with a great many friends and relatives around it .
Sometimes you see a family of them , covering a space no bigger than the palm of your hand ; and sometimes a large community , whitening a whole tract of pasture , and all keeping one another in cheerful heart and life .
Within the verge of the wood there were columbines , looking more pale than red , because they were so modest , and had thought proper to seclude themselves too anxiously from the sun .
There were wild geraniums , too , and a thousand white blossoms of the strawberry .
The trailing arbutus was not yet quite out of bloom ; but it hid its precious flowers under the last year 's withered forest-leaves , as carefully as a mother-bird hides its little young ones .
It knew , I suppose , how beautiful and sweet-scented they were .
So cunning was their concealment , that the children sometimes smelt the delicate richness of their perfume , before they knew whence it proceeded .
Amid so much new life , it was strange and truly pitiful to behold , here and there , in the fields and pastures , the hoary periwig of dandelions that had already gone to seed .
They had done with summer before the summer came .
Within those small globes of winged seeds it was autumn now !
Well , but we must not waste our valuable pages with any more talk about the spring-time and wild flowers .
There is something , we hope , more interesting to be talked about .
If you look at the group of children , you may see them all gathered around Eustace Bright , who , sitting on the stump of a tree , seems to be just beginning a story .
The fact is , the younger part of the troop have found out that it takes rather too many of their short strides to measure the long ascent of the hill .
Cousin Eustace , therefore , has decided to leave Sweet Fern , Cowslip , Squash-blossom , and Dandelion , at this point , midway up , until the return of the rest of the party from the summit .
And because they complain a little , and do not quite like to stay behind , he gives them some apples out of his pocket , and proposes to tell them a very pretty story .
Hereupon they brighten up , and change their grieved looks into the broadest kind of smiles .
As for the story , I was there to hear it , hidden behind a bush , and shall tell it over to you in the pages that come next .
THE MIRACULOUS PITCHER .
One evening , in times long ago , old Philemon and his old wife Baucis sat at their cottage-door , enjoying the cahn and beautiful sunset .
They had already eaten their frugal supper , and intended now to spend a quiet hour or two before bedtime .
So they talked together about their garden , and their cow , and their bees , and their grapevine , which clambered over the cottage-wall , and on which the grapes were beginning to turn purple .
But the rude shouts of children and the fierce barking of dogs , in the village near at hand , grew louder and louder , until , at last , it was hardly possible for Baucis and Philemon to hear each other speak .
`` Ah , wife . ''
cried Philemon , `` I fear some poor traveller is seeking hospitality among our neighbors yonder , and , instead of giving him food and lodging , they have set their dogs at him , as their custom is ! ''
`` Well-a-day ! ''
answered old Baucis , `` I do wish our neighbors felt a little more kindness for their fellow-creatures .
And only think of bringing up their children in this naughty way , and patting them on the head when they fling stones at strangers ! ''
`` Those children will never come to any good , '' said Philemon , shaking his white head .
`` To tell you the truth , wife , I should not wonder if some terrible thing were to happen to all the people in the village , unless they mend their manners .
But , as for you and me , so long as Providence affords us a crust of bread , let us be ready to give half to any poor , homeless stranger , that may come along and need it . ''
`` That 's right , husband ! ''
said Baucis .
`` So we will ! ''
These old folks , you must know , were quite poor , and had to work pretty hard for a living .
Old Philemon toiled diligently in his garden , while Baucis was always busy with her distaff , or making a little butter and cheese with their cow 's milk , or doing one thing and another about the cottage .
Their food was seldom anything but bread , milk , and vegetables , with sometimes a portion of honey from their beehive , and now and then a bunch of grapes , that had ripened against the cottage-wall .
But they were two of the kindest old people in the world , and would cheerfully have gone without their dinners , any day , rather than refuse a slice of their brown loaf , a cup of new milk , and a spoonful of honey , to the weary traveller who might pause before their door .
They felt as if such guests had a sort of holiness , and that they ought , therefore , to treat them better and more bountifully than their own selves .
Their cottage stood on a rising ground , at some short distance from a village , which lay in a hollow valley , that was about half a mile in breadth .
This valley , in past ages , when the world was new , had probably been the bed of a lake .
There , fishes had glided to and fro in the depths , and water-weeds had grown along the margin , and trees and hills had seen their reflected images in the broad , and peaceful mirror .
But , as the waters subsided , men had cultivated the soil , and built houses on it , so that it was now a fertile spot , and bore no traces of the ancient lake , except a very small brook , which meandered through the midst of the village , and supplied the inhabitants with water .
The valley had been dry land so long , that oaks had sprung up , and grown great and high , and perished with old age , and been succeeded by others ; as tall and stately as the first .
Never was there a prettier or more fruitful valley .
The very sight of the plenty around them should have made the inhabitants kind and gentle , and ready to show their gratitude to Providence by doing good to their fellow-creatures .
But , we are sorry to say , the people of this lovely village were not worthy to dwell in a spot on which Heaven had smiled so beneficently .
They were a very selfish and hard-hearted people , and had no pity for the poor , nor sympathy with the homeless .
They would only have laughed , had anybody told them that human beings owe a debt of love to one another , because there is no other method of paying the debt of love and care which all of us owe to Providence .
You will hardly believe what I am going to tell you .
These naughty people taught their children to be no better than themselves , and used to clap their hands , by way of encouragement , when they saw the little boys and girls run after some poor stranger , shouting at his heels , and pelting hum with stones .
They kept large and fierce dogs , and whenever a traveller ventured to show himself in the village street , this pack of disagreeable curs scampered to meet him , barking , snarling , and showing their teeth .
Then they would seize him by his leg , or by his clothes , just as it happened ; and if he were ragged when he came , he was generally a pitiable object before he had time to run away .
This was a very terrible thing to poor travellers , as you may suppose , especially when they chanced to be sick , or feeble , or lame , or old .
Such persons -LRB- if they once knew how badly these unkind people , and their unkind children and curs , were in the habit of behaving -RRB- would go miles and miles out of their way , rather than try to pass through the village again .
What made the matter seem worse , if possible , was that when rich persons came in their chariots , or riding on beautiful horses , with their servants in rich liveries attending on them , nobody could be more civil and obsequious than the inhabitants of the village .
They would take off their hats , and make the humblest bows you ever saw .
If the children were rude , they were pretty certain to get their ears boxed ; and as for the dogs , if a single cur in the pack presumed to yelp , his master instantly beat him with a club , and tied him up without any supper .
This would have been all very well , only it proved that the villagers cared much about the money that a stranger had in his pocket , and nothing whatever for the human soul , which lives equally in the beggar and the prince .
So now you can understand why old Philemon spoke so sorrowfully , when he heard the shouts of the children and the barking of the dogs , at the farther extremity of the village street .
There was a confused din , which lasted a good while , and seemed to pass quite through the breadth of the valley .
`` I never heard the dogs so loud ! ''
observed the good old man .
`` Nor the children so rude ! ''
answered his good old wife .
They sat shaking their heads , one to another , while the noise came nearer and nearer ; until , at the foot of the little eminence on which their cottage stood , they saw two travellers approaching on foot .
Close behind them came the fierce dogs , snarling at their very heels .
A little farther off , ran a crowd of children , who sent up shrill cries , and flung stones at the two strangers , with all their might .
Once or twice , the younger of the two men -LRB- he was a slender and very active figure -RRB- turned about , and drove back the dogs with a staff which he carried in his hand .
His companion , who was a very tall person , walked calmly along , as if disdaining to notice either the naughty children , or the pack of curs , whose manners the children seemed to imitate .
Both of the travellers were very humbly clad , and looked as if they might not have money enough in their pockets to pay for a night 's lodging .
And this , I am afraid , was the reason why the villagers had allowed their children and dogs to treat them so rudely .
`` Come , wife , '' said Philemon to Baucis , `` let us go and meet these poor people .
No doubt , they feel almost too heavy-hearted to climb the hill . ''
`` Go you and meet them , '' answered Baucis , `` while I make haste within doors , and see whether we can get them anything for supper .
A comfortable bowl of bread and milk would do wonders towards raising their spirits . ''
Accordingly , she hastened into the cottage .
Philemon , on his part , went forward , and extended his hand with so hospitable an aspect that there was no need of saying , what nevertheless he did say , in the heartiest tone imaginable , -- `` Welcome , strangers !
welcome ! ''
`` Thank you ! ''
replied the younger of the two , in a lively kind of way , notwithstanding his weariness and trouble .
`` This is quite another greeting than we have met with yonder , in the village .
Pray , why do you live in such a bad neighborhood ? ''
`` Ah ! ''
observed old Philemon , with a quiet and benign smile , `` Providence put me here , I hope , among other reasons , in order that I may make you what amends I can for the inhospitality of my neighbors . ''
`` Well said , old father ! ''
cried the traveller , laughing ; `` and , if the truth must be told , my companion and myself need some amends .
Those children -LRB- the little rascals ! -RRB-
have bespattered us finely with their mud-ball ; and one of the curs has torn my cloak , which was ragged enough already .
But I took him across the muzzle with my staff ; and I think you may have heard him yelp , even thus far off . ''
Philemon was glad to see him in such good spirits ; nor , indeed , would you have fancied , by the traveller 's look and manner , that he was weary with a long day 's journey , besides being disheartened by rough treatment at the end of it .
He was dressed in rather an odd way , with a sort of cap on his head , the brim of which stuck out over both ears .
Though it was a summer evening , he wore a cloak , which he kept wrapt closely about him , perhaps because his under garments were shabby .
Philemen perceived , too , that he had on a singular pair of shoes ; but , as it was now growing dusk , and as the old man 's eyesight was none the sharpest , he could not precisely tell in what the strangeness consisted .
One thing , certainly , seemed queer .
The traveller was so wonderfully light and active , that it appeared as if his feet sometimes rose from the ground of their own accord , or could only be kept down by an effort .
`` I used to be light-footed , in my youth , '' said Philemen to the traveller .
`` But I always found my feet grow heavier towards nightfall . ''
`` There is nothing like a good staff to help one along , '' answered the stranger ; `` and I happen to have an excellent one , as you see . ''
This staff , in fact , was the oddest-looking staff that Philemon had ever beheld .
It was made of olive-wood , and had something like a little pair of wings near the top .
Two snakes , carved in the wood , were represented as twining themselves about the staff , and were so very skilfully executed that old Philemon -LRB- whose eyes , you know , were getting rather dim -RRB- almost thought them alive , and that he could see them wriggling and twisting .
`` A curious piece of work , sure enough ! ''
said he .
`` A staff with wings !
It would be an excellent kind of stick for a little boy to ride astride of ! ''
By this time , Philemon and his two guests had reached the cottage-door .
`` Friends , '' said the old man , `` sit down and rest yourselves here on this bench .
My good wife Baucis has gone to see what you can have for supper .
We are poor folks ; but you shall be welcome to whatever we have in the cupboard . ''
The younger stranger threw himself carelessly on the bench , letting his staff fall , as he did so .
And here happened something rather marvellous , though trifling enough , too .
The staff seemed to get up from the ground of its own accord , and , spreading its little pair of wings , it half hopt , half flew , and leaned itself against the wall of the cottage .
There it stood quite still , except that the snakes continued to wriggle .
But , in my private opinion , old Philemon 's eyesight had been playing him tricks again .
Before he could ask any questions , the elder stranger drew his attention from the wonderful staff , by speaking to him .
`` Was there not , '' asked the stranger , in a remarkably deep tone of voice , `` a lake , in very ancient times , covering the spot where now stands yonder village ? ''
`` Not in my day , friend , '' answered Philemon ; `` and yet I am an old man , as you see .
There were always the fields and meadows , just as they are now , and the old trees , and the little stream murmuring through the midst of the valley .
My father , nor his father before him , ever saw it otherwise , so far as I know ; and doubtless it will still be the same , when old Philemon shall be gone and forgotten ! ''
`` That is more than can be safely foretold , '' observed the stranger ; and there was something very stern in his deep voice .
He shook his head , too , so that his dark and heavy curls were shaken with the movement , `` Since the inhabitants of yonder village have forgotten the affections and sympathies of their nature , it were better that the lake should be rippling over their dwellings again ! ''
The traveller looked so stern , that Philemon was really almost frightened ; the more so , that , at his frown , the twilight seemed suddenly to grow darker , and that , when he shook his head , there was a roll as of thunder in the air .
But , in a moment afterwards , the stranger 's face became so kindly and mild , that the old man quite forgot his terror .
Nevertheless , he could not help feeling that this elder traveller must be no ordinary personage , although he happened now to be attired so humbly , and to be journeying on foot .
Not that Philemon fancied him a prince in disguise , or any character of that sort ; but rather some exceedingly wise man , who went about the world in this poor garb , despising wealth and all worldly objects , and seeking everywhere to add a mite to his wisdom .
This idea appeared the more probable , because , when Philemon raised his eyes to the stranger 's face , he seemed to see more thought there , in one look , than he could have studied out in a lifetime .
While Baucis was getting the supper , the travellers both began to talk very sociably with Philemon .
The younger , indeed , was extremely loquacious , and made such shrewd and witty remarks , that the good old man continually burst out a-laughing , and pronounced him the merriest fellow whom he had seen for many a day .
`` Pray , my young friend , '' said he , as they grew familiar together , `` what may I call your name ? ''
`` Why , I am very nimble , as you see , '' answered the traveller .
`` So , if you call me Quicksilver , the name will fit tolerably well . ''
`` Quicksilver ?
Quicksilver ? ''
repeated Philemon , looking in the traveller 's face , to see if he were making fun of him .
`` It is a very odd name !
And your companion there ?
Has he as strange a one ? ''
`` You must ask the thunder to tell it you ! ''
replied Quicksilver , putting on a mysterious look .
`` No other voice is loud enough . ''
This remark , whether it were serious or in jest , might have caused Philemon to conceive a very great awe of the elder stranger , if , on venturing to gaze at him , he had not beheld so much beneficence in his visage ; But , undoubtedly , here was the grandest figure that ever sat so humbly beside a cottage-door .
When the stranger conversed , it was with gravity , and in such a way that Philemon felt irresistibly moved to tell him everything which he had most at heart .
This is always the feeling that people have , when they meet with any one wise enough to comprehend all their good and evil , and to despise not a tittle of it .
But Philemon , simple and kind-hearted old man that he was , had not many secrets to disclose .
He talked , however , quite garrulously , about the events of his past life , in the whole course of which he had never been a score of miles from this very spot .
His wife Baucis and himself had dwelt in the cottage from their youth upward , earning their bread by honest labor , always poor , but still contented .
He told what excellent butter and cheese Baucis made , and how nice were the vegetables which he raised in his garden .
He said , too , that , because they loved one another so very much , it was the wish of both that death might not separate them , but that they should die , as they had lived , together .
As the stranger listened , a smile beamed over his countenance , and made its expression as sweet as it was grand .
`` You are a good old man , '' said he to Philemon , `` and you have a good old wife to be your helpmeet .
It is fit that your wish be granted . ''
And it seemed to Philemon , just then , as if the sunset clouds threw up a bright flash from the west , and kindled a sudden light in the sky .
Baucis had now got supper ready , and , coming to the door , began to make apologies for the poor fare which she was forced to set before her guests .
`` Had we known you were coming , '' said she , `` my good man and myself would have gone without a morsel , rather than you should lack a better supper .
But I took the most part of to-day 's milk to make cheese ; and our last loaf is already half eaten .
Ah me !
I never feel the sorrow of being poor , save when a poor traveller knocks at our door . ''
`` All will be very well ; do not trouble yourself , my good dame , '' replied the elder stranger , kindly .
`` An honest , hearty welcome to a guest works miracles with the fare , and is capable of turning the coarsest food to nectar and ambrosia . ''
`` A welcome you shall have , '' cried Baucis , `` and likewise a little honey that we happen to have left , and a bunch of purple grapes besides . ''
`` Why , Mother Baucis , it , is a feast ! ''
exclaimed Quicksilver , laughing , `` an absolute feast !
and you shall see how bravely I will play my part at it !
I think I never felt hungrier in my life . ''
`` Mercy on us ! ''
whispered Baucis to her husband .
`` If the young man has such a terrible appetite , I am afraid there will not be half enough supper ! ''
They all went into the cottage .
And now , my little auditors , shall I tell you something that will make you open your eyes very wide ?
It is really one of the oddest circumstances in the whole story .
Quicksilver 's staff , you recollect , had set itself up against the wall of the cottage .
Well ; when its master entered the door , leaving this wonderful staff behind , what should it do but immediately spread its little wings , and go hopping and fluttering up the doorsteps !
Tap , tap , went the staff , on the kitchen floor ; nor did it rest until it had stood itself on end , with the greatest gravity and decorum , beside Quicksilver 's chair .
Old Philemon , however , as well as his wife , was so taken up in attending to their guests , that no notice was given to what the staff had been about .
As Baucis had said , there was but a scanty supper for two hungry travellers .
In the middle of the table was the remnant of a brown loaf , with a piece of cheese on one side of it , and a dish of honeycomb on the other .
There was a pretty good bunch of grapes for each of the guests .
A moderately sized earthen pitcher , nearly full of milk , stood at a corner of the board ; and when hands had filled two bowls , and set them before the strangers , only a little milk remained in the bottom of the pitcher .
Alas !
it is a very sad business , when a bountiful heart finds itself pinched and squeezed among narrow circumstances .
Poor Baucis kept wishing that she might starve for a week to come , if it were possible , by so doing , to provide these hungry folks a more plentiful supper .
And , since the supper was so exceedingly small , she could not help wishing that their appetites had not been quite so large .
Why , at their very first sitting down , the travellers both drank off all the milk in their two bowls , at a draught .
`` A little more milk , kind Mother Baucis , if you please , '' said Quicksilver .
`` The day has been hot , and I am very much athirst . ''
`` Now , my dear people , '' answered Baucis , in great confusion , `` I am so sorry and ashamed !
But the truth is , there is hardly a drop more milk in the pitcher .
O husband !
husband !
why did n't we go without our supper ? ''
`` Why , it appears to me , '' cried Quicksilver , starting up from table and taking the pitcher by the handle , `` it really appears to me that matters are not quite so bad as you represent them .
Here is certainly more milk in the pitcher . ''
So saying , and to the vast astonishment of Baucis , he proceeded to fill , not only his own bowl , but his companion 's likewise , from the pitcher , that was supposed to be almost empty .
The good woman could scarcely believe her eyes .
She had certainly poured out nearly all the milk , and had peeped in afterwards , and seen the bottom of the pitcher , as she set it down upon the table .
`` But I am old , '' thought Baucis to herself , `` and apt to be forgetful .
I suppose I must have made a mistake .
At all events , the pitcher can not , help being empty now , after filling the bowls twice over . ''
`` What excellent milk ! ''
observed Quicksilver , after quaffing the contents of the second bowl .
`` Excuse me , my kind hostess , but I must really ask you for a little more . ''
Now Baucis had seen , as plainly as she could see anything , that Quicksilver had turned the pitcher upside down , and consequently had poured out every drop of milk , in filling the last bowl .
Of course , there could not possibly be any left .
However , in order to let him know precisely how the case was , she lifted the pitcher , and made a gesture as if pouring milk into Quicksilver 's bowl , but without the remotest idea that any milk would stream forth .
What was her surprise , therefore , when such an abundant cascade fell bubbling into the bowl , that it was immediately filled to the brim , and overflowed upon the table !
The two snakes that were twisted about Quicksilver 's staff -LRB- but neither Baucis nor Philemon happened to observe this circumstance -RRB- stretched out their heads , and began to lap up the spilt milk .
And then what a delicious fragrance the milk had !
It seemed as if Philemon 's only cow must have pastured , that day , on the richest herbage that could be found anywhere in the world .
I only wish that each of you , my beloved little souls , could have a bowl of such nice milk , at supper-time !
`` And now a slice of your brown loaf , Mother Baucis , '' said Quicksilver , `` and a little of that honey ! ''
Baucis cut him a slice , accordingly ; and though the loaf , when she and her husband ate of it , had been rather too dry and crusty to be palatable , it was now as light and moist as if but a few hours out of the oven .
Tasting a crumb , which had fallen on the table , she found it more delicious than bread ever was before , and could hardly believe that it was a loaf of her own kneading and baking .
Yet , what other loaf could it possibly be ?
But , oh the honey !
I may just as well let it alone , without trying to describe how exquisitely it smelt and looked .
Its color was that of the purest and most transparent gold ; and it had the odor of a thousand flowers ; but of such flowers as never grew in an earthly garden , and to seek which the bees must have flown high above the clouds .
The wonder is , that , after alighting on a flower-bed of so delicious fragrance and immortal bloom , they should have been content to fly down again to their hive in Philemon 's garden .
Never was such honey tasted , seen , or smelt .
The perfume floated around the kitchen , and made it so delightful , that , had you closed your eyes , you would instantly have forgotten the low ceiling and smoky walls , and have fancied yourself in an arbor , with celestial honeysuckles creeping over it .
Although good Mother Baucis was a simple old dame , she could not but think that there was something rather out of the common way , in all that had been going on .
So , after helping the guests to bread and honey , and laying a bunch of grapes by each of their plates , she sat down by Philemon , and told him what she had seen , in a whisper .
`` Did you ever hear the like ? ''
asked she .
`` No , I never did , '' answered Philemon , with a smile .
`` And I rather think , my dear old wife , you have been walking about in a sort of a dream .
If I had poured out the milk , I should have seen through the business , at once .
There happened to be a little more in the pitcher than you thought , -- that is all . ''
`` Ah , husband , '' said Baucis , `` say what you will , these are very uncommon people . ''
`` Well , well , '' replied Philemon , still smiling , `` perhaps they are .
They certainly do look as if they had seen better days ; and I am heartily glad to see them making so comfortable a supper . ''
Each of the guests had now taken his bunch of grapes upon his plate .
Baucis -LRB- who rubbed her eyes , in order to see the more clearly -RRB- was of opinion that the clusters had grown larger and richer , and that each separate grape seemed to be on the point of bursting with ripe juice .
It was entirely a mystery to her how such grapes could ever have been produced from the old stunted vine that climbed against the cottage-wall .
`` Very admirable grapes these ! ''
observed Quicksilver , as he swallowed one after another , without apparently diminishing his cluster .
`` Pray , my good host , whence did you gather them ? ''
`` From my own vine , '' answered Philemon .
`` You may see one of its branches twisting across the window , yonder .
But wife and I never thought the grapes very fine ones . ''
`` I never tasted better , '' said the guest .
`` Another cup of this delicious milk , if you please , and I shall then have supped better than a prince . ''
This time , old Philemon bestirred himself , and took up the pitcher ; for he was curious to discover whether there was any reality in the marvels which Baucis had whispered to him .
He knew that his good old wife was incapable of falsehood , and that she was seldom mistaken in what she supposed to be true ; but this was so very singular a case , that he wanted to see into it with his own eyes .
On taking up the pitcher , therefore , he slyly peeped into it , and was fully satisfied that it contained not so much as a single drop .
All at once , however , he beheld a little white fountain , which gushed up from the bottom of the pitcher , and speedily filled it to the brim with foaming and deliciously fragrant milk .
It was lucky that Philemon , in his surprise , did not drop the miraculous pitcher from his hand .
`` Who are ye , wonder-working strangers ? ''
cried he , even more bewildered than his wife had been .
`` Your guests , my good Philemon , and your friends , '' replied the elder traveller , in his mild , deep voice , that had something at once sweet and awe-inspiring in it .
`` Give me likewise a cup of the milk ; and may your pitcher never be empty for kind Baucis and yourself , any more than for the needy wayfarer ! ''
The supper being now over , the strangers requested to be shown to their place of repose .
The old people would gladly have talked with them a little longer , and have expressed the wonder which they felt , and their delight at finding the poor and meagre supper prove so much better and more abundant than they hoped .
But the elder traveller had inspired them with such reverence , that they dared not ask him any questions .
And when Philemon drew Quicksilver aside , and inquired how under the sun a fountain of milk could have got into air old earthen pitcher , this latter personage pointed to his staff .
`` There is the whole mystery of the affair , '' quoth Quicksilver ; `` and if you can make it out , I 'll thank you to let me know .
I ca n't tell what to make of my staff .
It is always playing such odd tricks as this ; sometimes getting me a supper , and , quite as often , stealing it away .
If I had any faith in such nonsense , I should say the stick was bewitched ! ''
He said no more , but looked so slyly in their faces , that they rather fancied he was laughing at them .
The magic staff went hopping at his heels , as Quicksilver quitted the room .
When left alone , the good old couple spent some little time in conversation about the events of the evening , and then lay down on the floor , and fell fast asleep .
They had given up their sleeping-room to the guests , and had no other bed for themselves , save these planks , which I wish had been as soft as their own hearts .
The old man and his wife were stirring , betimes , in the morning , and the strangers likewise arose with the sun , and made their preparations to depart .
Philemon hospitably entreated them to remain a little longer , until Baucis could milk the cow , and bake a cake upon the hearth , and , perhaps , find them a few fresh eggs , for breakfast .
The guests , however , seemed to think it better to accomplish a good part of their journey before the heat of the day should come on .
They , therefore , persisted in setting out immediately , but asked Philemon and Baucis to walk forth with them a short distance , and show them the road which they were to take .
So they all four issued from the cottage , chatting together like old friends .
It was very remarkable indeed , how familiar the old couple insensibly grew with the elder traveller , and how their good and simple spirits melted into his , even as two drops of water would melt into the illimitable ocean .
And as for Quicksilver , with his keen , quick , laughing wits , he appeared to discover every little thought that but peeped into their minds , before they suspected it themselves .
They sometimes wished , it is true , that he had not been quite so quick-witted , and also that he would fling away his staff , which looked so mysteriously mischievous , with the snakes always writhing about it .
But then , again , Quicksilver showed himself so very good-humored , that they would have been rejoiced to keep him in their cottage , staff , snakes , and all , every day , and the whole day long .
`` Ah me !
Well-a-day ! ''
exclaimed Philemon , when they had walked a little way from their door .
`` If our neighbors only knew what a blessed thing it is to show hospitality to strangers , they would tie up all their dogs , and never allow their children to fling another stone . ''
`` It is a sin and shame for them to behave so , -- that it is ! ''
cried good old Baucis , vehemently .
`` And I mean to go this very day , and tell some of then what naughty people they are ! ''
`` I fear , '' remarked Quicksilver , slyly smiling , `` that you will find none of them at home . ''
The elder traveller 's brow , just then , assumed such a grave , stern , and awful grandeur , yet serene withal , that neither Baucis nor Philemon dared to speak a word .
They gazed reverently into his face , as if they had been gazing at the sky .
`` When men do not feel towards the humblest stranger as if he were a brother , '' said the traveller , in tones so deep that they sounded like those of an organ , `` they are unworthy to exist on earth , which was created as the abode of a great human brotherhood ! ''
`` And , by the by , my dear old people , '' cried Quicksilver , with the liveliest look of fun and mischief in his eyes , `` where is this same village that you talk about ?
On which side of us does it lie ?
Methinks I do not see it hereabouts . ''
Philemon and his wife turned towards the valley , where , at sunset , only the day before , they had seen the meadows , the houses , the gardens , the clumps of trees , the wide , green-margined street , with children playing in it , and all the tokens of business , enjoyment , and prosperity .
But what was their astonishment !
There was no longer any appearance of a village !
Even the fertile vale , in the hollow of which it lay , had ceased to have existence .
In its stead , they beheld the broad , blue surface of a lake , which filled the great basin of the valley , from brim to brim , and reflected the surrounding bills in its bosom , with as tranquil an image as if it had been there ever since the creation of the world .
For an instant , the lake remained perfectly smooth .
Then , a little breeze sprang up , and caused the water to dance , glitter , and sparkle in the early sunbeams , and to dash , with a pleasant rippling murmur , against the hither shore .
The lake seemed so strangely familiar , that the old couple were greatly perplexed , and felt as if they could only have been dreaming about a village having lain there .
But , the next moment , they remembered the vanished dwellings , and the faces and characters of the inhabitants , far too distinctly for a dream .
The village had been there yesterday , and now was gone !
`` Alas ! ''
cried these kind-hearted old people , `` what has become of our poor neighbors ? ''
`` They exist no longer as men and women , '' said the elder traveller , in his grand and deep voice , while a roll of thunder seemed to echo it at a distance .
`` There was neither use nor beauty in such a life as theirs : for they never softened or sweetened the hard lot of mortality by the exercise of kindly affections between man and man .
They retained no image of the better life in their bosoms ; therefore , the lake , that was of old , has spread itself forth again , to reflect the sky ! ''
`` And as for those foolish people , '' said Quicksilver , with his mischievous smile , `` they are all transformed to fishes .
There needed but little change , for they were already a scaly set of rascals , and the coldest-blooded beings in existence .
So , kind Mother Baucis , whenever you or your husband have an appetite for a dish of broiled trout , he can throw in a line , and pull out half a dozen of your old neighbors ! ''
`` Ah , '' cried Baucis , shuddering , `` I would not , for the world , put one of them on the gridiron ! ''
`` No , '' added Philemon , making a wry face , `` we could never relish them ! ''
`` As for you , good Philemon , '' continued the elder traveller , -- `` and you , kind Baucis , -- you , with your scanty means , have mingled so much heartfelt hospitality with your entertainment of the homeless stranger , that the milk became an inexhaustible fount of nectar , and the brown loaf and the honey were ambrosia .
Thus , the divinities have feasted , at your board , off the same viands that supply their banquets on Olympus .
You have done well , my dear old friends .
Wherefore , request whatever favor you have most at heart , and it is granted . ''
Philemon and Baucis looked at one another , and then , -- I know not which of the two it was who spoke , but that one uttered the desire of both their hearts .
`` Let us live together , while we live , and leave the world at the same instant , when we die !
For we have always loved one another ! ''
`` Be it so ! ''
replied the stranger , with majestic kindness .
`` Now , look towards your cottage ! ''
They did so .
But what was their surprise , on beholding a tall edifice of white marble , with a wide-open portal , occupying the spot where their humble residence had so lately stood !
`` There is your home , '' said the stranger , beneficently smiling on them both .
`` Exercise your hospitality in yonder palace , as freely as in the poor hovel to which you welcomed us last evening . ''
The old folks fell on their knees to thank him ; but , behold !
neither he nor Quicksilver was there .
So Philemon and Baucis took up their residence in the marble palace , and spent their time , with vast satisfaction to themselves , in making everybody jolly and comfortable who happened to pass that way .
The milk-pitcher , I must not forget to say , retained its marvellous quality of being never empty , when it was desirable to have it full .
Whenever an honest , good-humored , and free-hearted guest took a draught from this pitcher , he invariably found it the sweetest and most invigorating fluid that ever ran down his throat .
But , if a cross and disagreeable curmudgeon happened to sip , he was pretty certain to twist his visage into a hard knot , and pronounce it a pitcher of sour milk !
Thus the old couple lived in their palace a great , great while , and grew older and older , and very old indeed .
At length , however , there came a summer morning when Philemon and Baucis failed to make their appearance , as on other mornings , with one hospitable smile overspreading both their pleasant faces , to invite the guests of overnight to breakfast .
The guests searched everywhere , from top to bottom of the spacious palace , and all to no purpose .
But , after a great deal of perplexity , they espied , in front of the portal , two venerable trees , which nobody could remember to have seen there the day before .
Yet there they stood , with their roots fastened deep into the soil , and a huge breadth of foliage overshadowing the whole front of the edifice .
One was an oak , and the other a linden-tree .
Their boughs it was strange and beautiful to see -- were intertwined together , and embraced one another , so that each tree seemed to live in the other tree 's bosom , much more than in its own .
While the guests were marvelling how these trees , that must have required at least a century to grow , could have come to be so tall and venerable in a single night , a breeze sprang up , and set their intermingled boughs astir .
And then there was a deep , broad murmur in the air , as if the two mysterious trees were speaking .
`` I am old Philemon ! ''
murmured the oak .
`` I am old Baucis ! ''
murmured the linden-tree .
But , as the breeze grew stronger , the trees both spoke at once , -- `` Philemon !
Baucis !
Baucis !
Philemon ! ''
-- as if one were both and both were one , and talking together in the depths of their mutual heart .
It was plain enough to perceive that the good old couple had renewed their age , and were now to spend a quiet and delightful hundred years or so , Philemon as an oak , and Baucis as a linden-tree .
And oh , what a hospitable shade did they fling around them !
Whenever a wayfarer paused beneath it , he heard a pleasant whisper of the leaves above his head , and wondered how the sound should so much resemble words like these : -- `` Welcome , welcome , dear traveller , welcome ! ''
And some kind soul , that knew what would have pleased old Baucis and old Philemon best , built a circular seat around both their trunks , where , for a great while afterwards , the weary , and the hungry , and the thirsty used to repose themselves , and quaff milk abundantly out of the miraculous pitcher .
And I wish , for all our sakes , that we had the pitcher here now !
THE HILLSIDE .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` How much did the pitcher hold ? ''
asked Sweet Fern .
`` It did not hold quite a quart , '' answered the student ; `` but you might keep pouring milk out of it , till you should fill a hogshead , if you pleased .
The truth is , it would run on forever , and not be dry even at midsummer , -- which is more than can be said of yonder rill , that goes babbling down the hillside . ''
`` And what has become of the pitcher now ? ''
inquired the little boy .
`` It was broken , I am sorry to say , about twenty-five thousand years ago , '' replied Cousin Eustace .
`` The people mended it as well as they could ; but , though it would hold milk pretty well , it was never afterwards known to fill itself of its own accord .
So , you see , it was no better than any other cracked earthen pitcher . ''
`` What a pity ! ''
cried all the children at once .
The respectable dog Ben had accompanied the party , as did likewise a half-grown Newfoundland puppy , who went by the name of Bruin , because he was just as black as a bear .
Ben , being elderly , and of very circumspect habits , was respectfully requested , by Cousin Eustace , to stay behind with the four little children , in order to keep them out of mischief .
As for black Bruin , who was himself nothing but a child , the student thought it best to take him along , lest , in his rude play with the other children , he should trip them up , and send them rolling and tumbling down the bill .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Paradise_of_Children.txt.out
TANGLEWOOD PLAY-ROOM .
The golden days of October passed away , as so many other Octobers have , and brown November likewise , and the greater part of chill December , too .
At last came merry Christmas , and Eustace Bright along with it , making it all the merrier by his presence .
And , the day after his arrival from college , there came a mighty snow-storm .
Up to this time , the winter had held back , and had given us a good many mild days , which were like smiles upon its wrinkled visage .
The grass had kept itself green , in sheltered places , such as the nooks of southern hill-slopes , and along the lee of the stone fences .
It was but a week or two ago , and since the beginning of the month , that the children had found a dandelion in bloom , on the margin of Shadow Brook , where it glides out of the dell .
But no more green grass and dandelions now .
This was such a snow-storm !
Twenty miles of it might have been visible at once , between the windows of Tanglewood and the dome of Taconic , had it been possible to see so far , among the eddying drifts that whitened all the atmosphere .
It seemed as if the hills were giants , and were flinging monstrous handfuls of snow at one another , in their enormous sport .
So thick were the fluttering snow-flakes , that even the trees , midway down the valley , were hidden by them the greater part of the time .
Sometimes , it is true , the little prisoners of Tanglewood could discern a dim outline of Monument Mountain , and the smooth whiteness of the frozen lake at its base , and the black or gray tracts of woodland in the nearer landscape .
But these were merely peeps through the tempest .
Nevertheless , the children rejoiced greatly in the snowstorm .
They had already made acquaintance with it , by tumbling heels over head into its highest drifts , and flinging snow at one another , as we have just fancied the Berkshire mountains to be doing .
And now they had come back to their spacious play-room , which was as big as the great drawing-room , and was lumbered with all sorts of playthings , large and small .
The biggest was a rocking-horse , that looked like a real pony ; and there was a whole family of wooden , waxen , plaster , and china dolls , besides rag-babies ; and blocks enough to build Bunker Hill Monument , and nine-pins , and balls , and humming-tops , and battledores , and grace-sticks , and skipping-ropes , and more of such valuable property than I could tell of in a printed page .
But the children liked the snow-storm better than them all .
It suggested so many brisk enjoyments for to-morrow , and all the remainder of the winter .
The sleigh-ride ; the slides down hill into the valley ; the snow-images that were to be shaped out ; the snow-fortresses that were to be built ; and the snow-balling to be carried on !
So the little folks blessed the snow-storm , and were glad to see it come thicker and thicker , and watched hopefully the long drift that was piling itself up in the avenue , and was already higher than any of their heads .
`` Why , we shall be blocked up till spring ! ''
cried they , with the hugest delight .
`` What a pity that the house is too high to be quite covered up !
The little red house , down yonder , will be buried up to its eaves . ''
`` You silly children , what do you want of more snow ? ''
asked Eustace , who , tired of some novel that he was skimming through , had strolled into the play-room .
`` It has done mischief enough already , by spoiling the only skating that I could hope for through the winter .
We shall see nothing more of the lake till April ; and this was to have been my first day upon it !
Do n't you pity me , Primrose ? ''
`` O , to be sure ! ''
answered Primrose , laughing .
`` But , for your comfort , we will listen to another of your old stories , such as you told us under the porch , and down in the hollow , by Shadow Brook .
Perhaps I shall like them better now , when there is nothing to do , than while there were nuts to be gathered , and beautiful weather to enjoy . ''
Hereupon , Periwinkle , Clover , Sweet Fern , and as many others of the little fraternity and cousinhood as were still at Tanglewood , gathered about Eustace , and earnestly besought him for a story .
The student yawned , stretched himself , and then , to the vast admiration of the small people , skipped three times hack and forth over the top of a chair , in order , as he explained to them , to set his wits in motion .
`` Well , well , children , '' said he , after these preliminaries , `` since you insist , and Primrose has set her heart upon it , I will see what can be done for you .
And , that you may know what happy days there were before snowstorms came into fashion , I will tell you a story of the oldest of all old times , when the world was as new as Sweet Fern 's bran-new humming-top .
There was then but one season in the year , and that was the delightful summer ; and but one age for mortals , and that was childhood . ''
`` I never heard of that before , '' said Primrose .
`` Of course , you never did , '' answered Eustace .
`` It shall be a story of what nobody but myself ever dreamed of , -- a Paradise of children , -- and how , by the naughtiness of just such a little imp as Primrose here , it all came to nothing . ''
So Eustace Bright sat down in the chair which he had just been skipping over , took Cowslip upon his knee , ordered silence throughout the auditory , and began a story about a sad naughty child , whose name was Pandora , and about her playfellow Epimetheus .
You may read it , word for word , in the pages that come next .
THE PARADISE OF CHILDREN .
Long , long ago , when this old world was in its tender infancy , there was a child , named Epimetheus , who never had either father or mother ; and , that he might not be lonely , another child , fatherless and motherless like himself , was sent from a far country , to live with him , and be his playfellow and helpmate .
Her name was Pandora .
The first thing that Pandora saw , when she entered the cottage where Epimetheus dwelt , was a great box .
And almost the first question which she put to him , after crossing the threshold , was this , -- `` Epimetheus , what have you in that box ? ''
`` My dear little Pandora , '' answered Epimetheus , `` that is a secret , and you must be kind enough not to ask any questions about it .
The box was left here to be kept safely , and I do not myself know what it contains . ''
`` But , who gave it to you ? ''
asked Pandora .
`` And where did it come from ? ''
`` That is a secret , too , '' replied Epimetheus .
`` How provoking ! ''
exclaimed Pandora , pouting her lip .
`` I wish the great ugly box were out of the way ! ''
`` O come , do n't think of it , any more , '' cried Epimetheus .
`` Let us run out of doors , and have some nice play with the other children . ''
It is thousands of years since Epimetheus and Pandora were alive ; and the world , nowadays , is a very different sort of thing from what it was in their time .
Then , everybody was a child .
There needed no fathers and mothers to take care of the children ; because there was no danger , nor trouble of any kind , and no clothes to be mended , and there was always plenty to eat and drink .
Whenever a child wanted his dinner , he found it growing on a tree ; and , if he looked at the tree in the morning , he could see the expanding blossom of that night 's supper ; or , at eventide , he saw the tender bud of to-morrow 's breakfast .
It was a very pleasant life indeed .
No labor to be done , no tasks to be studied ; nothing but sports and dances , and sweet voices of children talking , or carolling like birds , or gushing out in merry laughter , throughout the livelong day .
What was most wonderful of all , the children never quarrelled among themselves ; neither had they any crying fits ; nor , since time first began , had a single one of these little mortals ever gone apart into a corner , and sulked .
O , what a good time was that to be alive in !
The truth is , those ugly little winged monsters , called Troubles , which are now almost as numerous as mosquitoes , had never yet been seen on the earth .
It is probable that the very greatest disquietude which a child had ever experienced was Pandora 's vexation at not being able to discover the secret of the mysterious box .
This was at first only the faint shadow of a Trouble ; but , every day , it grew more and more substantial , until , before a great while , the cottage of Epimetheus and Pandora was less sunshiny than those of the other children .
`` Whence can the box have come ? ''
Pandora continually kept saying to herself and to Epimetheus .
`` And what in the world can be inside of it ? ''
`` Always talking about this box ! ''
said Epimetheus , at last ; for he had grown extremely tired of the subject .
`` I wish , dear Pandora , you would try to talk of something else .
Come , let us go and gather some ripe figs , and eat them under the trees , for our supper .
And I know a vine that has the sweetest and juiciest grapes you ever tasted . ''
`` Always talking about grapes and figs ! ''
cried Pandora , pettishly .
`` Well , then , '' said Epimetheus , who was a very good-tempered child , like a multitude of children in those days , `` let us run out and have a merry time with our playmates . ''
`` I am tired of merry times , and do n't care if I never have any more ! ''
answered our pettish little Pandora .
`` And , besides , I never do have any .
This ugly box !
I am so taken up with thinking about it all the time .
I insist upon your telling me what is inside of it . ''
`` As I have already said , fifty times over , I do not know ! ''
replied Epimetheus , getting a little vexed .
`` How , then , can I tell you what is inside ? ''
`` You might open it , '' said Pandora , looking sideways at Epimetheus , `` and then we could see for ourselves . ''
`` Pandora , what are you thinking of ? ''
exclaimed Epimetheus .
And his face expressed so much horror at the idea of looking into a box , which had been confided to him on the condition of his never opening it , that Pandora thought it best not to suggest it any more .
Still , however , she could not help thinking and talking about the box .
`` At least , '' said she , `` you can tell me how it came here . ''
`` It was left at the door , '' replied Epimetheus , `` just before you came , by a person who looked very smiling and intelligent , and who could hardly forbear laughing as he put it down .
He was dressed in an-odd kind of a cloak , and had on a cap that seemed to be made partly of feathers , so that it looked almost as if it had wings . ''
`` What sort of a staff had he ? ''
asked Pandora .
`` O , the most curious staff you ever saw ! ''
cried Epimetheus .
`` It was like two serpents twisting around a stick , and was carved so naturally that I , at first , bought the serpents were alive . ''
`` I know him , '' said Pandora , thoughtfully .
`` Nobody else has such a staff .
It was Quicksilver ; and he brought one hither , as well as the box .
No doubt he intended it for me ; and , most probably , it contains pretty dresses for me to wear , or toys for you and me to play with , or something very nice for us both to eat ! ''
`` Perhaps so , '' answered Epimetheus , turning away .
`` But until Quicksilver comes back and tells us so , we have neither of us any right to lift the lid of the box . ''
`` What a dull boy he is ! ''
muttered Pandora , as Epimetheus left the cottage .
`` I do wish he had a little more enterprise ! ''
For the first time since her arrival , Epimetheus had gone out without asking Pandora to accompany him .
He went to gather figs and grapes by himself , or to seek whatever amusement he could find , in other society than his little playfellow 's .
He was tired to death of hearing about the box , and heartily wished that Quicksilver , or whatever was the messenger 's name , had left it at some other child 's door , where Pandora would never have set eyes on it .
So perseveringly as she did babble about this one thing !
The box , the box , and nothing but the box !
It seemed as if the box were bewitched , and as if the cottage were not big enough to hold it , without Pandora 's continually stumbling over it , and making Epimetheus stumble over it likewise , and bruising all four of their shins .
Well , it was really hard that poor Epimetheus should have a box in his ears from morning till night ; especially as the little people of the earth were so unaccustomed to vexations , in those happy days , that they knew not how to deal with them .
Thus , a small vexation made as much disturbance , then , as a far bigger one would , in our own times .
After Epimetheus was gone , Pandora stood gazing at the box .
She had called it ugly , above a hundred times ; but , in spite of all that she had said against it , it was positively a very handsome article of furniture , and would have been quite an ornament to any room in which it should be placed .
It was made of a beautiful kind of wood , with dark and rich veins spreading over its surface , which was so highly polished that little Pandora could see her face in it .
As the child had no other looking-glass , it is odd that she did not value the box , merely on this account .
The edges and corners of the box were carved with most wonderful skill .
Around the margin there were figures of graceful men and women , and the prettiest children ever seen , reclining or sporting amid a profusion of flowers and foliage ; and these various objects were so exquisitely represented , and were wrought together in such harmony , that flowers , foliage , and human beings seemed to combine into a wreath of mingled beauty .
But here and there , peeping forth from behind the carved foliage , Pandora once or twice fancied that she saw a face not so lovely , or something or other that was disagreeable , and which stole the beauty out of all the rest .
Nevertheless , on looking more closely , and touching the spot with her finger , she could discover nothing of the kind .
Some face , that was really beautiful , had been made to look ugly by her catching a sideway glimpse at it .
The most beautiful face of all was done in what is called high relief , in the centre of the lid .
There was nothing else , save the dark , smooth richness of the polished wood , and this one face in the centre , with a garland of flowers about its brow .
Pandora had looked at this face a great many times , and imagined that the mouth could smile if it liked , or be grave when it chose , the same as any living mouth .
The features , indeed , all wore a very lively and rather mischievous expression , which looked almost as if it needs must burst out of the carved lips , and utter itself in words .
Had the mouth spoken , it would probably have been something like this : `` Do not be afraid , Pandora !
What harm can there be in opening the box ?
Never mind that poor , simple Epimetheus !
You are wiser than he , and have ten times as much spirit .
Open the box , and see if you do not find something very pretty ! ''
The box , I had almost forgotten to say , was fastened ; not by a lock , nor by any other such contrivance , but by a very intricate knot of gold cord .
There appeared to be no end to this knot , and no beginning .
Never was a knot so cunningly twisted , nor with so many ins and outs , which roguishly defied the skilfullest fingers to disentangle them .
And yet , by the very difficulty that there was in it , Pandora was the more tempted to examine the knot , and just see how it was made .
Two or three times , already , she had stooped over the box , and taken the knot between her thumb and forefinger , but without positively trying to undo it .
`` I really believe , '' said she to herself , `` that I begin to see how it was done .
Nay , perhaps I could tie it up again , after undoing it .
There would be no harm in that , surely .
Even Epimetheus would not blame me for that .
I need not open the box , and should not , of course , without the foolish boy 's consent , even if the knot were untied . ''
It might have been better for Pandora if she had had a little work to do , or anything to employ her mind upon , so as not to be so constantly thinking of this one subject .
But children led so easy a life , before any Troubles came into the world , that they had really a great deal too much leisure .
They could not be forever playing at hide-and-seek among the flower-shrubs , or at blind-man 's - buff with garlands over their eyes , or at whatever other games had been found out , while Mother Earth was in her babyhood .
When life is all sport , toil is the real play .
There was absolutely nothing to do .
A little sweeping and dusting about the cottage , I suppose , and the gathering of fresh flowers -LRB- which were only too abundant everywhere -RRB- , and arranging them in vases , -- and poor little Pandora 's day 's work was over .
And then , for the rest of the day , there was the box !
After all , I am not quite sure that the box was not a blessing to her in its way .
It supplied her with such a variety of ideas to think of , and to talk about , whenever she had anybody to listen !
When she was in good humor , she could admire the bright polish of its sides , and the rich border of beautiful faces and foliage that ran all around it .
Or , if she chanced to be ill-tempered , she could give it a push , or kick it with her naughty little foot .
And many a kick did the box -- -LRB- but it was a mischievous box , as we shall see , and deserved all it got -RRB- -- many a kick did it receive .
But , certain it is , if it had not been for the box , our active-minded little Pandora would not have known half so well how to spend her time as she now did .
For it was really an endless employment to guess what was inside .
What could it be , indeed ?
Just imagine , my little hearers , how busy your wits would be , if there were a great box in the house , which , as you might have reason to suppose , contained something new and pretty for your Christmas or New-Year 's gifts .
Do you think that you should be less curious than Pandora ?
If you were left alone with the box , might you not feel a little tempted to lift the lid ?
But you would not do it .
O , fie !
No , no !
Only , if you thought there were toys in it , it would be so very hard to let slip an opportunity of taking just one peep !
I know not whether Pandora expected any toys ; for none had yet begun to be made , probably , in those days , when the world itself was one great plaything for the children that dwelt upon it .
But Pandora was convinced that there was something very beautiful and valuable in the box ; and therefore she felt just as anxious to take a peep as any of these little girls , here around me , would have felt .
And , possibly , a little more so ; but of that I am not quite so certain .
On this particular day , however , which we have so long been talking about , her curiosity grew so much greater than it usually was , that , at last , she approached the box .
She was more than half determined to open it , if she could .
Ah , naughty Pandora !
First , however , she tried to lift it .
It was heavy ; quite too heavy for the slender strength of a child , like Pandora .
She raised one end of the box a few inches from the floor , and let it fall again , with a pretty loud thump .
A moment afterwards , she almost fancied that she heard something stir , inside of the box .
She applied her ear as closely as possible , and listened .
Positively , there did seem to be a kind of stifled murmur , within !
Or was it merely the singing in Pandora 's ears ?
Or could it be the beating of her heart ?
The child could not quite satisfy herself whether she had heard anything or no .
But , at all events , her curiosity was stronger than ever .
As she drew back her head , her eyes fell upon the knot of gold cord .
`` It must have been a very ingenious person who tied this knot , '' said Pandora to herself .
`` But I think I could untie it , nevertheless .
I am resolved , at least , to find the two ends of the cord . ''
So she took the golden knot in her fingers , and pried into its intricacies as sharply as she could .
Almost without intending it , or quite knowing what she was about , she was soon busily engaged in attempting to undo it .
Meanwhile , the bright sunshine came through the open window ; as did likewise the merry voices of the children , playing at a distance , and perhaps the voice of Epimetheus among then .
Pandora stopped to listen .
What a beautiful day it was !
Would it not be wiser , if she were to let the troublesome knot alone , and think no more about the box , but run and join her little playfellows , and be happy ?
All this time , however , her fingers were half unconsciously busy with the knot ; and happening to glance at the flower-wreathed face on the lid of the enchanted box , she seemed to perceive it slyly grinning at her .
`` That face looks very mischievous , '' thought Pandora .
`` I wonder whether it smiles because I am doing wrong !
I have the greatest mind in the world to run away ! ''
But just then , by the merest accident , she gave the knot a kind of a twist , which produced a wonderful result .
The gold cord untwined itself , as if by magic , and left the box without a fastening .
`` This is the strangest thing I ever knew ! ''
said Pandora .
`` What will Epimetheus say ?
And how can I possibly tie it up again ? ''
She made one or two attempts to restore the knot , but soon found it quite beyond her skill .
It had disentangled itself so suddenly that she could not in the least remember how the strings had been doubled into one another ; and when she tried to recollect the shape and appearance of the knot , it seemed to have gone entirely out of her mind .
Nothing was to be done , therefore , but to let the box remain as it was , until Epimetheus should come in .
`` But , '' said Pandora , `` when he finds the knot untied , he will know that I have done it .
How shall I make him believe that I have not looked into the box ? ''
And then the thought came into her naughty little heart , that , since she would be suspected of having looked into the box , she might just as well do so , at once .
O , very naughty and very foolish Pandora !
You should have thought only of doing what was right , and of leaving undone what was wrong , and not of what your playfellow Epimetheus would have said or believed .
And so perhaps she might , if the enchanted face on the lid of the box had not looked so bewitchingly persuasive at her , and if she had not seemed to hear , more distinctly than before , the murmur of small voices within .
She could not tell whether it was fancy or no ; but there was quite a little tumult of whispers in her ear , -- or else it was her curiosity that whispered , `` Let us out , dear Pandora , -- pray let us out !
We will be such nice pretty playfellows for you !
Only let us out ! ''
`` What can it be ? ''
thought Pandora .
`` Is there something alive in the box ?
Well !
-- yes !
-- I am resolved to take just one peep !
Only one peep ; and then the lid shall be shut down as safely as ever !
There can not possibly be any harm in just one little peep ! ''
But it is now time for us to see what Epimetheus was doing .
This was the first time , since his little playmate had come to dwell with him , that he had attempted to enjoy any pleasure in which she did not partake .
But nothing went right ; nor was he nearly so happy as on other days .
He could not find a sweet grape or a ripe fig -LRB- if Epimetheus had a fault , it was a little too much fondness for figs -RRB- ; or , if ripe at all , they were over-ripe , and so sweet as to be cloying .
There was no mirth in his heart , such as usually made his voice gush out , of its own accord , and swell the merriment of his companions .
In short , he grew so uneasy and discontented , that the other children could not imagine what was the matter with Epimetheus .
Neither did he himself know what ailed him , any better than they did .
For you must recollect , that at the time we are speaking of , it was everybody 's nature , and constant habit , to be happy .
The world had not yet learned to be otherwise .
Not a single soul or body , since these children were first sent to enjoy themselves on the beautiful earth , had ever been sick , or out of sorts .
At length , discovering that , somehow or other , he put a stop to all the play , Epimetheus judged it best to go back to Pandora , who was in a humor better suited to his own .
But , with a hope of giving her pleasure , he gathered some flowers , and made them into a wreath , which he meant to put upon her head .
The flowers were very lovely , -- roses , and lilies , and orange-blossoms , and a great many more , which left a trail of fragrance behind , as Epimetheus carried them along ; and the wreath was put together with as much skill as could reasonably be expected of a boy .
The fingers of little girls , it has always appeared to me , are the fittest to twine flower-wreaths ; but boys could do it , in those days , rather better than they can now .
And here I must mention that a great black cloud had been gathering in the sky , for some time past , although it had not yet overspread the sun .
But , just as Epimetheus reached the cottage door , this cloud began to intercept the sunshine , and thus to make a sudden and sad obscurity .
He entered softly ; for he meant , if possible , to steal behind Pandora , and fling the wreath of flowers over her head , before she should be aware of his approach .
But , as it happened , there was no need of his treading so very lightly .
He might have trod as heavily as he pleased , -- as heavily as a grown man , -- as heavily , I was going to say , as an elephant , -- without much probability of Pandora 's hearing his footsteps .
She was too intent upon her purpose .
At the moment of his entering the cottage , the naughty child had put her hand to the lid , and was on the point of opening the mysterious box .
Epimetheus beheld her .
If he had cried out , Pandora would probably have withdrawn her hand , and the fatal mystery of the box might never have been known .
But Epimetheus himself , although he said very little about it , had his own share of curiosity to know what was inside .
Perceiving that Pandora was resolved to find out the secret , he determined that his playfellow should not be the only wise person in the cottage .
And if there were anything pretty or valuable in the box , he meant to take half of it to himself .
Thus , after all his sage speeches to Pandora about restraining her curiosity , Epimetheus turned out to be quite as foolish , and nearly as much in fault , as she .
So , whenever we blame Pandora for what happened , we must not forget to shake our heads at Epimetheus likewise .
As Pandora raised the lid , the cottage grew very dark and dismal ; for the black cloud had now swept quite over the sun , and seemed to have buried it alive .
There had , for a little while past , been a low growling and muttering , which all at once broke into a heavy peal of thunder .
But Pandora , heeding nothing of all this , lifted the lid nearly upright , and looked inside .
It seemed as if a sudden swarm of winged creatures brushed past her , taking flight out of the box , while , at the same instant , she heard the voice of Epimetheus , with a lamentable tone , as if he were in pain .
`` O , I am stung ! ''
cried he .
`` I am stung !
Naughty Pandora !
why have you opened this wicked box ? ''
Pandora let fall the lid , and , starting up , looked about her , to see what had befallen Epimetheus .
The thundercloud had so darkened the room that she could not very clearly discern what was in it .
But she heard a disagreeable buzzing , as if a great many huge flies , or gigantic mosquitoes , or those insects which we call dorbugs and pinching-dogs , were darting about .
And , as her eyes grew more accustomed to the imperfect light , she saw a crowd of ugly little shapes , with bats ' wings , looking abominably spiteful , and armed with terribly long stings in their tails .
It was one of these that had stung Epimetheus .
Nor was it a great while before Pandora herself began to scream , in no less pain and affright than her playfellow , and making a vast deal more hubbub about it .
An odious little monster had settled on her forehead , and would have stung her I know not how deeply , if Epimetheus had not run and brushed it away .
Now , if you wish to know what these ugly things might be , which had made their escape out of the box , I must tell you that they were the whole family of earthly Troubles .
There were evil Passions ; there were a great many species of Cares ; there were more than a hundred and fifty Sorrows ; there were Diseases , in a vast number of miserable and painful shapes ; there were more kinds of Naughtiness than it would be of any use to talk about .
In short , everything that has since afflicted the souls and bodies of mankind had been shut up in the mysterious box , and given to Epimetheus and Pandora to be kept safely , in order that the happy children of the world might never be molested by them .
Had they been faithful to their trust , all would have gone well .
No grown person would ever have been sad , nor any child have had cause to shed a single tear , from that hour until this moment .
But -- and you may see by this how a wrong act of any one mortal is a calamity to the whole world -- by Pandora 's lifting the lid of that miserable box , and by the fault of Epimetheus , too , in not preventing her , these Troubles have obtained a foothold among us , and do not seem very likely to be driven away in a hurry .
For it was impossible , as you will easily guess , that the two children should keep the ugly swarm in their own little cottage .
On the contrary , the first thing that they did was to fling open the doors and windows , in hopes of getting rid of them ; and , sure enough , away flew the winged Troubles all abroad , and so pestered and tormented the small people , everywhere about , that none of them so much as smiled for many days afterwards .
And , what was very singular , all the flowers and dewy blossoms on earth , not one of which had hitherto faded , now began to droop and shed their leaves , after a day or two .
The children , moreover , who before seemed immortal in their childhood , now grew older , day by day , and came soon to be youths and maidens , and men and women by and by , and aged people , before they dreamed of such a thing .
Meanwhile , the naughty Pandora , and hardly less naughty Epimetheus , remained in their cottage .
Both of them had been grievously stung , and were in a good deal of pain , which seemed the more intolerable to them , because it was the very first pain that had ever been felt since the world began .
Of course , they were entirely unaccustomed to it , and could have no idea what it meant .
Besides all this , they were in exceedingly bad humor , both with themselves and with one another .
In order to indulge it to the utmost , Epimetheus sat down sullenly in a corner with his back towards Pandora ; while Pandora flung herself upon the floor and rested her head on the fatal and abominable box .
She was crying bitterly , and sobbing as if her heart would break .
Suddenly there was a gentle little tap , on the inside of the lid .
`` What can that be ? ''
cried Pandora , lifting her head .
But either Epimetheus had not heard the tap , or was too much out of humor to notice it .
At any rate , he made no answer .
`` You are very unkind , '' said Pandora , sobbing anew , `` not to speak to me ! ''
Again the tap !
It sounded like the tiny knuckles of a fairy 's hand , knocking lightly and playfully on the inside of the box .
`` Who are you ? ''
asked Pandora , with a little of her former curiosity .
`` Who are you , inside of this naughty box ? ''
A sweet little voice spoke from within , -- `` Only lift the lid , and you shall see . ''
`` No , no , '' answered Pandora , again beginning to sob , `` I have had enough of lifting the lid !
You are inside of the box , naughty creature , and there you shall stay !
There are plenty of your ugly brothers and sisters already flying about the world .
You need never think that I shall be so foolish as to let you out ! ''
She looked towards Epimetheus , as she spoke , perhaps expecting that he would commend her for her wisdom .
But the sullen boy only muttered that she was wise a little too late .
`` Ah , '' said the sweet little voice again , `` you had much better let me out .
I am not like those naughty creatures that have stings in their tails .
They are no brothers and sisters of mine , as you would see at once , if you were only to get a glimpse of me .
Come , come , my pretty Pandora !
I am sure you will let me out ! ''
And , indeed , there was a kind of cheerful witchery in the tone , that made it almost impossible to refuse anything which this little voice asked .
Pandora 's heart had insensibly grown lighter , at every word that came from within the box .
Epimetheus , too , though still in the corner , had turned half round , and seemed to be in rather better spirits than before .
`` My dear Epimetheus , '' cried Pandora , `` have you heard this little voice ? ''
`` Yes , to be sure I have , '' answered he , but in no very good-humor as yet .
`` And what of it ? ''
`` Shall I lift the lid again ? ''
asked Pandora .
`` Just as you please , '' said Epimetheus .
`` You have done so much mischief already , that perhaps you may as well do a little more .
One other Trouble , in such a swarm as you have set adrift about the world , can make no very great difference . ''
`` You might speak a little more kindly ! ''
murmured Pandora , wiping her eyes .
`` Ah , naughty boy ! ''
cried the little voice within the box , in an arch and laughing tone .
`` He knows he is longing to see me .
Come , my dear Pandora , lift up the lid .
I am in a great hurry to comfort you .
Only let me have some fresh air , and you shall soon see that matters are not quite so dismal as you think them ! ''
`` Epimetheus , '' exclaimed Pandora , `` come what may , I am resolved to open the box ! ''
`` And , as the lid seems very heavy , '' cried Epimetheus , running across the room , `` I will help you ! ''
So , with one consent , the two children again lifted the lid .
Out flew a sunny and smiling little personage , and hovered about the room , throwing a light wherever she went .
Have you never made the sunshine dance into dark corners , by reflecting it from a bit of looking-glass ?
Well , so looked the winged cheerfulness of this fairylike stranger , amid the gloom of the cottage .
She flew to Epimetheus , and laid the least touch of her finger on the inflamed spot where the Trouble had stung him , and immediately the anguish of it was gone .
Then she kissed Pandora on the forehead , and her hurt was cured likewise .
After performing these good offices , the bright stranger fluttered sportively over the children 's heads , and looked so sweetly at them , that they both began to think it not so very much amiss to have opened the box , since , otherwise , their cheery guest must have been kept a prisoner among those naughty imps with stings in their tails .
`` Pray , who are you , beautiful creature ? ''
inquired Pandora .
`` I am to be called Hope ! ''
answered the sunshiny figure .
`` And because I am such a cheery little body , I was packed into the box , to make amends to the human race for that swarm of ugly Troubles , which was destined to be let loose among them .
Never fear !
we shall do pretty well , in spite of them all . ''
`` Your wings are colored like the rainbow ! ''
exclaimed Pandora .
`` How very beautiful ! ''
`` Yes , they are like the rainbow , '' said Hope , `` because glad as my nature is , I am partly made of tears as well as smiles . ''
`` And will you stay with us , '' asked Epimetheus , `` for ever and ever ? ''
`` As long as you need me , '' said Hope , with her pleasant smile , -- `` and that will be as long as you live in the world , -- I promise never to desert you .
There may come times and seasons , now and then , when you will think that I have utterly vanished .
But again , and again , and again , when perhaps you least dream of it , you shall see the glimmer of my wings on the ceiling of your cottage .
Yes , my dear children , and I know something very good and beautiful that is to be given you hereafter ! ''
`` O tell us , '' they exclaimed , -- `` tell us what it is ! ''
`` Do not ask me , '' replied Hope , putting her finger on her rosy mouth .
`` But do not despair , even if it should never happen while you live on this earth .
Trust in my promise , for it is true . ''
`` We do trust you ! ''
cried Epimetheus and Pandora , both in one breath .
And so they did ; and not only they , but so has everybody trusted Hope , that has since been alive .
And , to tell you the truth , I can not help being glad -- -LRB- though , to be sure , it was an uncommonly naughty thing for her to do -RRB- - but I can not help being glad that our foolish Pandora peeped into the box .
No doubt -- no doubt -- the Troubles are still flying about the world , and have increased in multitude , rather than lessened , and are a very ugly set of imps , and carry most venomous stings in their tails .
I have felt them already , and expect to feel them more , as I grow older .
But then that lovely and lightsome little figure of Hope !
What in the world could we do without her ?
Hope spiritualizes the earth ; Hope makes it always new ; and , even in the earth 's best and brightest aspect , Hope shows it to be only the shadow of an infinite bliss hereafter !
TANGLEWOOD PLAY-ROOM .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` Primrose , '' asked Eustace , pinching her ear , `` how do you like my little Pandora ?
Do n't you think her the exact picture of yourself ?
But you would not have hesitated half so long about opening the box . ''
`` Then I should have been well punished for my naughtiness , '' retorted Primrose , smartly ; `` for the first thing to pop out , after the lid was lifted , would have been Mr. Eustace Bright , in the shape of a Trouble . ''
`` Cousin Eustace , '' said Sweet Fern , `` did the box hold all the trouble that has ever come into the world ? ''
`` Every mite of it ! ''
answered Eustace .
`` This very snow-storm , which has spoiled my skating , was packed up there . ''
`` And how big was the box ? ''
asked Sweet Fern .
`` Why , perhaps three feet long , '' said Eustace , `` two feet wide , and two feet and a half high . ''
`` Ah , '' said the child , `` you are making fun of me , Cousin Eustace !
I know there is not trouble enough in the world to fill such a great box as that .
As for the snow-storm , it is no trouble at all , but a pleasure ; so it could not have been in the box . ''
`` Hear the child ! ''
cried Primrose , with an air of superiority .
`` How little he knows about the troubles of this world !
Poor fellow !
He will be wiser when he has seen as much of life as I have . ''
So saying , she began to skip the rope .
Meantime , the day was drawing towards its close .
Out of doors the scene certainly looked dreary .
There was a gray drift , far and wide , through the gathering twilight ; the earth was as pathless as the air ; and the bank of snow over the steps of the porch proved that nobody had entered or gone out for a good many hours past .
Had there been only one child at the window of Tanglewood , gazing at this wintry prospect , it would perhaps have made him sad .
But half a dozen children together , though they can not quite turn the world into a paradise , may defy old Winter and all his storms to put them out of spirits .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Seven_Vagabonds_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
Rambling on foot in the spring of my life and the summer of the year , I came one afternoon to a point which gave me the choice of three directions .
Straight before me , the main road extended its dusty length to Boston ; on the left a branch went towards the sea , and would have lengthened my journey a trifle of twenty or thirty miles ; while by the right-hand path , I might have gone over hills and lakes to Canada , visiting in my way the celebrated town of Stamford .
On a level spot of grass , at the foot of the guidepost , appeared an object , which , though locomotive on a different principle , reminded me of Gulliver 's portable mansion among the Brobdignags .
It was a huge covered wagon , or , more properly , a small house on wheels , with a door on one side and a window shaded by green blinds on the other .
Two horses , munching provender out of the baskets which muzzled them , were fastened near the vehicle : a delectable sound of music proceeded from the interior ; and I immediately conjectured that this was some itinerant show , halting at the confluence of the roads to intercept such idle travellers as myself .
A shower had long been climbing up the western sky , and now hung so blackly over my onward path that it was a point of wisdom to seek shelter here .
`` Halloo !
Who stands guard here ?
Is the doorkeeper asleep ? ''
cried I , approaching a ladder of two or three steps which was let down from the wagon .
The music ceased at my summons , and there appeared at the door , not the sort of figure that I had mentally assigned to the wandering showman , but a most respectable old personage , whom I was sorry to have addressed in so free a style .
He wore a snuff colored coat and small-clothes , with white-top boots , and exhibited the mild dignity of aspect and manner which may often be noticed in aged schoolmasters , and sometimes in deacons , selectmen , or other potentates of that kind .
A small piece of silver was my passport within his premises , where I found only one other person , hereafter to be described .
`` This is a dull day for business , '' said the old gentleman , as he ushered me in ; `` but I merely tarry here to refresh the cattle , being bound for the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Perhaps the movable scene of this narrative is still peregrinating New England , and may enable the reader to test the accuracy of my description .
The spectacle -- for I will not use the unworthy term of puppet-show -- consisted of a multitude of little people assembled on a miniature stage .
Among them were artisans of every kind , in the attitudes of their toil , and a group of fair ladies and gay gentlemen standing ready for the dance ; a company of foot-soldiers formed a line across the stage , looking stern , grim , and terrible enough , to make it a pleasant consideration that they were but three inches high ; and conspicuous above the whole was seen a Merry-Andrew , in the pointed cap and motley coat of his profession .
All the inhabitants of this mimic world were motionless , like the figures in a picture , or like that people who one moment were alive in the midst of their business and delights , and the next were transformed to statues , preserving an eternal semblance of labor that was ended , and pleasure that could be felt no more .
Anon , however , the old gentleman turned the handle of a barrel-organ , the first note of which produced a most enlivening effect upon the figures , and awoke them all to their proper occupations and amusements .
By the self-same impulse the tailor plied his needle , the blacksmith 's hammer descended upon the anvil , and the dancers whirled away on feathery tiptoes ; the company of soldiers broke into platoons , retreated from the stage , and were succeeded by a troop of horse , who came prancing onward with such a sound of trumpets and trampling of hoofs , as might have startled Don Quixote himself ; while an old toper , of inveterate ill habits , uplifted his black bottle and took off a hearty swig .
Meantime the Merry-Andrew began to caper and turn somersets , shaking his sides , nodding his head , and winking his eyes in as life-like a manner as if he were ridiculing the nonsense of all human affairs , and making fun of the whole multitude beneath him .
At length the old magician -LRB- for I compared the showman to Prospero , entertaining his guests with a mask of shadows -RRB- paused that I might give utterance to my wonder .
`` What an admirable piece of work is this ! ''
exclaimed I , lifting up my bands in astonishment .
Indeed , I liked the spectacle , and was tickled with the old man 's gravity as he presided at it , for I had none of that foolish wisdom which reproves every occupation that is not useful in this world of vanities .
If there be a faculty which I possess more perfectly than most men , it is that of throwing myself mentally into situations foreign to my own , and detecting , with a cheerful eye , the desirable circumstances of each .
I could have envied the life of this gray-headed showman , spent as it had been in a course of safe and pleasurable adventure , in driving his huge vehicle sometimes through the sands of Cape Cod , and sometimes over the rough forest roads of the north and east , and halting now on the green before a village meeting-house , and now in a paved square of the metropolis .
How often must his heart have been gladdened by the delight of children , as they viewed these animated figures !
or his pride indulged , by haranguing learnedly to grown men on the mechanical powers which produced such wonderful effects !
or his gallantry brought into play -LRB- for this is an attribute which such grave men do not lack -RRB- by the visits of pretty maidens !
And then with how fresh a feeling must he return , at intervals , to his own peculiar home !
`` I would I were assured of as happy a life as his , '' thought I. Though the showman 's wagon might have accommodated fifteen or twenty spectators , it now contained only himself and me , and a third person at whom I threw a glance on entering .
He was a neat and trim young man of two or three and twenty ; his drab hat , and green frock-coat with velvet collar , were smart , though no longer new ; while a pair of green spectacles , that seemed needless to his brisk little eyes , gave him something of a scholar-like and literary air .
After allowing me a sufficient time to inspect the puppets , he advanced with a bow , and drew my attention to some books in a corner of the wagon .
These he forthwith began to extol , with an amazing volubility of well-sounding words , and an ingenuity of praise that won him my heart , as being myself one of the most merciful of critics .
Indeed , his stock required some considerable powers of commendation in the salesman ; there were several ancient friends of mine , the novels of those happy days when my affections wavered between the Scottish Chiefs and Thomas Thumb ; besides a few of later date , whose merits had not been acknowledged by the public .
I was glad to find that dear little venerable volume , the New England Primer , looking as antique as ever , though in its thousandth new edition ; a bundle of superannuated gilt picture-books made such a child of me , that , partly for the glittering covers , and partly for the fairy-tales within , I bought the whole ; and an assortment of ballads and popular theatrical songs drew largely on my purse .
To balance these expenditures , I meddled neither with sermons , nor science , nor morality , though volumes of each were there ; nor with a Life of Franklin in the coarsest of paper , but so showily bound that it was emblematical of the Doctor himself , in the court dress which he refused to wear at Paris ; nor with Webster 's Spelling Book , nor some of Byron 's minor poems , nor half a dozen little Testaments at twenty-five cents each .
Thus far the collection might have been swept from some great bookstore , or picked up at an evening auction-room ; but there was one small blue-covered pamphlet , which the peddler handed me with so peculiar an air , that I purchased it immediately at his own price ; and then , for the first time , the thought struck me , that I had spoken face to face with the veritable author of a printed book .
The literary man now evinced a great kindness for me , and I ventured to inquire which way he was travelling .
`` O , '' said he , `` I keep company with this old gentleman here , and we are moving now towards the camp-meeting at Stamford ! ''
He then explained to me , that for the present season he had rented a corner of the wagon as a bookstore , which , as he wittily observed , was a true Circulating Library , since there were few parts of the country where it had not gone its rounds .
I approved of the plan exceedingly , and began to sum up within my mind the many uncommon felicities in the life of a book-peddler , especially when his character resembled that of the individual before me .
At a high rate was to be reckoned the daily and hourly enjoyment of such interviews as the present , in which he seized upon the admiration of a passing stranger , and made him aware that a man of literary taste , and even of literary achievement , was travelling the country in a showman 's wagon .
A more valuable , yet not infrequent triumph , might be won in his conversation with some elderly clergyman , long vegetating in a rocky , woody , watery back settlement of New England , who , as he recruited his library from the peddler 's stock of sermons , would exhort him to seek a college education and become the first scholar in his class .
Sweeter and prouder yet would be his sensations , when , talking poetry while he sold spelling-books , he should charm the mind , and haply touch the heart of a fair country schoolmistress , herself an unhonored poetess , a wearer of blue stockings which none but himself took pains to look at .
But the scene of his completest glory would be when the wagon had halted for the night , and his stock of books was transferred to some crowded bar-room .
Then would he recommend to the multifarious company , whether traveller from the city , or teamster from the hills , or neighboring squire , or the landlord himself , or his loutish hostler , works suited to each particular taste and capacity ; proving , all the while , by acute criticism and profound remark , that the lore in his books was even exceeded by that in his brain .
Thus happily would he traverse the land ; sometimes a herald before the march of Mind ; sometimes walking arm in arm with awful Literature ; and reaping everywhere a harvest of real and sensible popularity , which the secluded bookworms , by whose toil he lived , could never hope for .
`` If ever I meddle with literature , '' thought I , fixing myself in adamantine resolution , `` it shall be as a travelling bookseller . ''
Though it was still mid-afternoon , the air had now grown dark about us , and a few drops of rain came down upon the roof of our vehicle , pattering like the feet of birds that had flown thither to rest .
A sound of pleasant voices made us listen , and there soon appeared half-way up the ladder the pretty person of a young damsel , whose rosy face was so cheerful , that even amid the gloomy light it seemed as if the sunbeams were peeping under her bonnet .
We next saw the dark and handsome features of a young man , who , with easier gallantry than might have been expected in the heart of Yankee-land , was assisting her into the wagon .
It became immediately evident to us , when the two strangers stood within the door , that they were of a profession kindred to those of my companions ; and I was delighted with the more than hospitable , the even paternal kindness , of the old showman 's manner , as he welcomed them ; while the man of literature hastened to lead the merry-eyed girl to a seat on the long bench .
`` You are housed but just in time , my young friends , '' said the master of the wagon .
`` The sky would have been down upon you within five minutes . ''
The young man 's reply marked him as a foreigner , not by any variation from the idiom and accent of good English , but because he spoke with more caution and accuracy , than if perfectly familiar with the language .
`` We knew that a shower was hanging over us , '' said he , `` and consulted whether it were best to enter the house on the top of yonder hill , but seeing your wagon in the road -- '' `` We agreed to come hither , '' interrupted the girl , with a smile , `` because we should be more at home in a wandering house like this . ''
I , meanwhile , with many a wild and undetermined fantasy , was narrowly inspecting these two doves that had flown into our ark .
The young man , tall , agile , and athletic , wore a mass of black shining curls clustering round a dark and vivacious countenance , which , if it had not greater expression , was at least more active , and attracted readier notice , than the quiet faces of our countrymen .
At his first appearance , he had been laden with a neat mahogany box , of about two feet square , but very light in proportion to its size , which he had immediately unstrapped from his shoulders and deposited on the floor of the wagon .
The girl had nearly as fair a complexion as our own beauties , and a brighter one than most of them ; the lightness of her figure , which seemed calculated to traverse the whole world without weariness , suited well with the glowing cheerfulness of her face ; and her gay attire , combining the rainbow hues of crimson , green , and a deep orange , was as proper to her lightsome aspect as if she had been born in it .
This gay stranger was appropriately burdened with that mirth-inspiring instrument , the fiddle , which her companion took from her hands , and shortly began the process of tuning .
Neither of us -- the previous company of the wagon-needed to inquire their trade ; for this could be no mystery to frequenters of brigade-musters , ordinations , cattle-shows , commencements , and other festal meetings in our sober land ; and there is a dear friend of mine , who will smile when this page recalls to his memory a chivalrous deed performed by us , in rescuing the show-box of such a couple from a mob of great double-fisted countrymen .
`` Come , '' said I to the damsel of gay attire , `` shall we visit all the wonders of the world together ? ''
She understood the metaphor at once ; though indeed it would not much have troubled me , if she had assented to the literal meaning of my words .
The mahogany box was placed in a proper position , and I peeped in through its small round magnifying window , while the girl sat by my side , and gave short descriptive sketches , as one after another the pictures were unfolded to my view .
We visited together , at least our imaginations did , full many a famous city , in the streets of which I had long yearned to tread ; once , I remember , we were in the harbor of Barcelona , gazing townwards ; next , she bore me through the air to Sicily , and bade me look up at blazing AEtna ; then we took wing to Venice , and sat in a gondola beneath the arch of the Rialto ; and anon she sat me down among the thronged spectators at the coronation of Napoleon .
But there was one scene , its locality she could not tell , which charmed my attention longer than all those gorgeous palaces and churches , because the fancy hammed me , that I myself , the preceding summer , had beheld just such a humble meeting-house , in just such a pine-surrounded nook , among our own green mountains .
All these pictures were tolerably executed , though far inferior to the girl 's touches of description ; nor was it easy to comprehend , how in so few sentences , and these , as I supposed , in a language foreign to her , she contrived to present an airy copy of each varied scene .
When we had travelled through the vast extent of the mahogany box , I looked into my guide 's face .
`` Where are you going , my pretty maid ? ''
inquired I , in the words of an old song .
`` Ah , '' said the gay damsel , `` you might as well ask where the summer wind is going .
We are wanderers here , and there , and everywhere .
Wherever there is mirth , our merry hearts are drawn to it .
To-day , indeed , the people have told us of a great frolic and festival in these parts ; so perhaps we may be needed at what you call the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Then in my happy youth , and while her pleasant voice yet sounded in my ears , I sighed ; for none but myself , I thought , should have been her companion in a life which seemed to realize my own wild fancies , cherished all through visionary boyhood to that hour .
To these two strangers the world was in its golden age , not that indeed it was less dark and sad than ever , but because its weariness and sorrow had no community with their ethereal nature .
Wherever they might appear in their pilgrimage of bliss , Youth would echo back their gladness , care-stricken Maturity would rest a moment from its toil , and Age , tottering among the graves , would smile in withered joy for their sakes .
The lonely cot , the narrow and gloomy street , the sombre shade , would catch a passing gleam like that now shining on ourselves , as these bright spirits wandered by .
Blessed pair , whose happy home was throughout all the earth !
I looked at my shoulders , and thought them broad enough to sustain those pictured towns and mountains ; mine , too , was an elastic foot , as tireless as the wing of the bird of paradise ; mine was then an untroubled heart , that would have gone singing on its delightful way .
`` O maiden ! ''
said I aloud , `` why did you not come hither alone ? ''
While the merry girl and myself were busy with the show-box , the unceasing rain had driven another wayfarer into the wagon .
He seemed pretty nearly of the old showman 's age , but much smaller , leaner , and more withered than he , and less respectably clad in a patched suit of gray ; withal , he had a thin , shrewd countenance , and a pair of diminutive gray eyes , which peeped rather too keenly out of their puckered sockets .
This old fellow had been joking with the showman , in a manner which intimated previous acquaintance ; but perceiving that the damsel and I had terminated our affairs , he drew forth a folded document , and presented it to me .
As I had anticipated , it proved to be a circular , written in a very fair and legible hand , and signed by several distinguished gentlemen whom I had never heard of , stating that the bearer had encountered every variety of misfortune , and recommending him to the notice of all charitable people .
Previous disbursements had left me no more than a five-dollar bill , out of which , however , I offered to make the beggar a donation , provided he would give me change for it .
The object of my beneficence looked keenly in my face , and discerned that , I had none of that abominable spirit , characteristic though it be , of a full-blooded Yankee , which takes pleasure in detecting every little harmless piece of knavery .
`` Why , perhaps , '' said the ragged old mendicant , `` if the bank is in good standing , I ca n't say but I may have enough about me to change your bill . ''
`` It is a bill of the Suffolk Bank , '' said I , `` and better than the specie . ''
As the beggar had nothing to object , he now produced a small buff-leather bag , tied up carefully with a shoe-string .
When this was opened , there appeared a very comfortable treasure of silver coins of all sorts and sizes ; and I even fancied that I saw , gleaming among them , the golden plumage of that rare bird in our currency , the American Eagle .
In this precious heap was my bank , note deposited , the rate of exchange being considerably against me .
His wants being thus relieved , the destitute man pulled out of his pocket an old pack of greasy cards , which had probably contributed to fill the buff leather bag , in more ways than one .
`` Come , '' said he , `` I spy a rare fortune in your face , and for twenty-five cents more , I 'll tell you what it is . ''
I never refuse to take a glimpse into futurity ; so , after shuffling the cards , and when the fair damsel had cut them , I dealt a portion to the prophetic beggar .
Like others of his profession , before predicting the shadowy events that were moving on to meet me , he gave proof of his preternatural science , by describing scenes through which I had already passed .
Here let me have credit for a sober fact .
When the old man had read a page in his book of fate , he bent his keen gray eyes on mine , and proceeded to relate , in all its minute particulars , what was then the most singular event of my life .
It was one which I had no purpose to disclose , till the general unfolding of all secrets ; nor would it be a much stranger instance of inscrutable knowledge , or fortunate conjecture , if the beggar were to meet me in the street to-day , and repeat , word for word , the page which I have here written .
The fortune-teller , after predicting a destiny which time seems loath to make good , put up his cards , secreted his treasure-bag , and began to converse with the other occupants of the wagon .
`` Well , old friend , '' said the showman , `` you have not yet told us which way your face is turned this afternoon . ''
`` I am taking a trip northward , this warm weather , '' replied the conjurer , `` across the Connecticut first , and then up through Vermont , and may be into Canada before the fall .
But I must stop and see the breaking up of the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
I began to think that all the vagrants in New England were converging to the camp-meeting , and had made this wagon their rendezvous by the way .
The showman now proposed that , when the shower was over , they should pursue the road to Stamford together , it being sometimes the policy of these people to form a sort of league and confederacy .
`` And the young lady too , '' observed the gallant bibliopolist , bowing to her profoundly , `` and this foreign gentleman , as I understand , are on a jaunt of pleasure to the same spot .
It would add incalculably to my own enjoyment , and I presume to that of my colleague and his friend , if they could be prevailed upon to join our party . ''
This arrangement met with approbation on all hands , nor were any of those concerned more sensible of its advantages than myself , who had no title to be included in it .
Having already satisfied myself as to the several modes in which the four others attained felicity , I next set my mind at work to discover what enjoyments were peculiar to the old `` Straggler , '' as the people of the country would have termed the wandering mendicant and prophet .
As he pretended to familiarity with the Devil , so I fancied that he was fitted to pursue and take delight in his way of life , by possessing some of the mental and moral characteristics , the lighter and more comic ones , of the Devil in popular stories .
Among them might be reckoned a love of deception for its own sake , a shrewd eye and keen relish for human weakness and ridiculous infirmity , and the talent of petty fraud .
Thus to this old man there would be pleasure even in the consciousness , so insupportable to some minds , that his whole life was a cheat upon the world , and that , so far as he was concerned with the public , his little cunning had the upper hand of its united wisdom .
Every day would furnish him with a succession of minute and pungent triumphs : as when , for instance , his importunity wrung a pittance out of the heart of a miser , or when my silly good-nature transferred a part of my slender purse to his plump leather bag ; or when some ostentatious gentleman should throw a coin to the ragged beggar who was richer than himself ; or when , though he would not always be so decidedly diabolical , his pretended wants should make him a sharer in the scanty living of real indigence .
And then what an inexhaustible field of enjoyment , both as enabling him to discern so much folly and achieve such quantities of minor mischief , was opened to his sneering spirit by his pretensions to prophetic knowledge .
All this was a sort of happiness which I could conceive of , though I had little sympathy with it .
Perhaps , had I been then inclined to admit it , I might have found that the roving life was more proper to him than to either of his companions ; for Satan , to whom I had compared the poor man , has delighted , ever since the time of Job , in `` wandering up and down upon the earth '' ; and indeed a crafty disposition , which operates not in deep-laid plans , but in disconnected tricks , could not have an adequate scope , unless naturally impelled to a continual change of scene and society .
My reflections were here interrupted .
`` Another visitor ! ''
exclaimed the old showman .
The door of the wagon had been closed against the tempest , which was roaring and blustering with prodigious fury and commotion , and beating violently against our shelter , as if it claimed all those homeless people for its lawful prey , while we , caring little for the displeasure of the elements , sat comfortably talking .
There was now an attempt to open the door , succeeded by a voice , uttering some strange , unintelligible gibberish , which my companions mistook for Greek , and I suspected to be thieves ' Latin .
However , the showman stepped forward , and gave admittance to a figure which made me imagine ; either that our wagon had rolled back two hundred years into past ages , or that the forest and its old inhabitants had sprung up around us by enchantment .
It was a red Indian , armed with his bow and arrow .
His dress was a sort of cap , adorned with a single feather of some wild bird , and a frock of blue cotton , girded tight about him ; on his breast , like orders of knighthood , hung a crescent and a circle , and other ornaments of silver ; while a small crucifix betokened that our Father the Pope had interposed between the Indian and the Great Spirit , whom he had worshipped in his simplicity .
This son of the wilderness , and pilgrim of the storm , took his place silently in the midst of us .
When the first surprise was over , I rightly conjectured him to be one of the Penobscot tribe , parties of which I had often seen , in their summer excursions down our Eastern rivers .
There they paddle their birch canoes among the coasting schooners , and build their wigwam beside some roaring milldam , and drive a little trade in basket-work where their fathers hunted deer .
Our new visitor was probably wandering through the country towards Boston , subsisting on the careless charity of the people , while he turned his archery to profitable account by shooting at cents , which were to be the prize of his successful aim .
The Indian had not long been seated , ere our merry damsel sought to draw him into conversation .
She , indeed , seemed all made up of sunshine in the mouth of May ; for there was nothing so dark and dismal that her pleasant mind could not cast a glow over it ; and the wild Indian , like a fir-tree in his native forest , soon began to brighten into a sort of sombre cheerfulness .
At length , she inquired whether his journey had any particular end or purpose .
`` I go shoot at the camp-meeting at Stamford , '' replied the Indian .
`` And here are five more , '' said the girl , `` all aiming at the camp-meeting too .
You shall be one of us , for we travel with light hearts ; and as for me , I sing merry songs , and tell merry tales , and am full of merry thoughts , and I dance merrily along the road , so that there is never any sadness among them that keep me company .
But , O , you would find it very dull indeed , to go all the way to Stamford alone ! ''
My ideas of the aboriginal character led me to fear that the Indian would prefer his own solitary musings to the gay society thus offered him ; on the contrary , the girl 's proposal met with immediate acceptance , and seemed to animate him with a misty expectation of enjoyment .
I now gave myself up to a course of thought which , whether it flowed naturally from this combination of events , or was drawn forth by a wayward fancy , caused my mind to thrill as if I were listening to deep music .
I saw mankind , in this weary old age of the world , either enduring a sluggish existence amid the smoke and dust of cities , or , if they breathed a purer air , still lying down at night with no hope but to wear out to-morrow , and all the to-morrows which make up life , among the same dull scenes and in the same wretched toil that had darkened the sunshine of to-day .
But there were some , full of the primeval instinct , who preserved the freshness of youth to their latest years by the continual excitement of new objects , new pursuits , and new associates ; and cared little , though their birthplace might have been here in New England , if the grave should close over them in Central Asia .
Fate was summoning a parliament of these free spirits ; unconscious of the impulse which directed them to a common centre , they had come hither from far and near ; and last of all appeared the representative of those mighty vagrants , who had chased the deer during thousands of years , and were chasing it now in the Spirit Land .
Wandering down through the waste of ages , the woods had vanished around his path ; his arm had lost somewhat of its strength , his foot of its fleetness , his mien of its wild regality , his heart and mind of their savage virtue and uncultured force ; but here , untamable to the routine of artificial life , roving now along the dusty road , as of old over the forest leaves , here was the Indian still .
`` Well , '' said the old showman , in the midst of my meditations , `` here is an honest company of us , -- one , two , three , four , five , six , -- all going to the camp-meeting at Stamford .
Now , hoping no offence , I should like to know where this young gentleman may be going ? ''
I started .
How came I among these wanderers ?
The free mind , that preferred its own folly to another 's wisdom ; the open spirit , that found companions everywhere ; above all , the restless impulse , that had so often made me wretched in the midst of enjoyments : these were my claims to be of their society .
`` My friends ! ''
cried I , stepping into the centre of the wagon , `` I am going with you to the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
`` But in what capacity ? ''
asked the old showman , after a moment 's silence .
`` All of us here can get our bread in some creditable way .
Every honest man should have his livelihood .
You , sir , as I take it , are a mere strolling gentleman . ''
I proceeded to inform the company , that , when Nature gave me a propensity to their way of life , she had not left me altogether destitute of qualifications for it ; though I could not deny that my talent was less respectable , and might be less profitable , than the meanest of theirs .
My design , in short , was to imitate the storytellers of whom Oriental travellers have told us , and become an itinerant novelist , reciting my own extemporaneous fictions to such audiences as I could collect .
`` Either this , '' said I , `` is my vocation , or I have been born in vain . ''
The fortune-teller , with a sly wink to the company , proposed to take me as an apprentice to one or other of his professions , either of which , undoubtedly , would have given full scope to whatever inventive talent I might possess .
The bibliopolist spoke a few words in opposition to my plan , influenced partly , I suspect , by the jealousy of authorship , and partly by an apprehension that the viva voce practice would become general among novelists , to the infinite detriment of the book-trade .
Dreading a rejection , I solicited the interest of the merry damsel .
`` Mirth , '' cried I , most aptly appropriating the words of L'Allegro , `` to thee I sue !
Mirth , admit me of thy crew ! ''
`` Let us indulge the poor youth , '' said Mirth , with a kindness which made me love her dearly , though I was no such coxcomb as to misinterpret her motives .
`` I have espied much promise in him .
True , a shadow sometimes flits across his brow , but the sunshine is sure to follow in a moment .
He is never guilty of a sad thought , but a merry one is twin born with it .
We will take him with us ; and you shall see that he will set us all a-laughing before we reach the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Her voice silenced the scruples of the rest , and gained me admittance into the league ; according to the terms of which , without a community of goods or profits , we were to lend each other all the aid , and avert all the harm , that might be in our power .
This affair settled , a marvellous jollity entered into the whole tribe of us , manifesting itself characteristically in each individual .
The old showman , sitting down to his barrel-organ , stirred up the souls of the pygmy people with one of the quickest tunes in the music-book ; tailors , blacksmiths , gentlemen , and ladies , all seemed to share in the spirit of the occasion ; and the Merry-Andrew played his part more facetiously than ever , nodding and winking particularly at me .
The young foreigner flourished his fiddle-bow with a master 's hand , and gave an inspiring echo to the showman 's melody .
The bookish man and the merry damsel started up simultaneously to dance ; the former enacting the double shuffle in a style which everybody must have witnessed , ere Election week was blotted out of time ; while the girl , setting her arms akimbo with both hands at her slim waist , displayed such light rapidity of foot , and harmony of varying attitude and motion , that I could not conceive how she ever was to stop ; imagining , at the moment , that Nature had made her , as the old showman had made his puppets , for no earthly purpose but to dance jigs .
The Indian bellowed forth a succession of most hideous outcries , somewhat afrighting us , till we interpreted them as the war-song , with which , in imitation of his ancestors , he was prefacing the assault on Stamford .
The conjurer , meanwhile , sat demurely in a corner , extracting a sly enjoyment from the whole scene , and , like the facetious Merry Andrew , directing his queer glance particularly at me .
As for myself , with great exhilaration of fancy , I began to arrange and color the incidents of a tale , wherewith I proposed to amuse an audience that very evening ; for I saw that my associates were a little ashamed of me , and that no time was to be lost in obtaining a public acknowledgment of my abilities .
`` Come , fellow-laborers , '' at last said the old showman , whom we had elected President ; `` the shower is over , and we must be doing our duty by these poor souls at Stamford . ''
`` We 'll come among them in procession , with music and dancing , '' cried the merry damsel .
Accordingly -- for it must be understood that our pilgrimage was to be performed on foot -- we sallied joyously out of the wagon , each of us , even the old gentleman in his white-top boots , giving a great skip as we came down the ladder .
Above our heads there was such a glory of sunshine and splendor of clouds , and such brightness of verdure below , that , as I modestly remarked at the time , Nature seemed to have washed her face , and put on the best of her jewelry and a fresh green gown , in honor of our confederation .
Casting our eyes northward , we beheld a horseman approaching leisurely , and splashing through the little puddles on the Stamford road .
Onward he came , sticking up in his saddle with rigid perpendicularity , a tall , thin figure in rusty black , whom the showman and the conjurer shortly recognized to be , what his aspect sufficiently indicated , a travelling preacher of great fame among the Methodists .
What puzzled us was the fact , that his face appeared turned from , instead of to , the camp-meeting at Stamford .
However , as this new votary of the wandering life drew near the little green space , where the guidepost and our wagon were situated , my six fellow-vagabonds and myself rushed forward and surrounded him , crying out with united voices , -- `` What news , what news from the camp-meeting at Stamford ? ''
The missionary looked down , in surprise , at as singular a knot of people as could have been selected from all his heterogeneous auditors .
Indeed , considering that we might all be classified under the general head of Vagabond , there was great diversity of character among the grave old showman , the sly , prophetic beggar , the fiddling foreigner and his merry damsel , the smart bibliopolist , the sombre Indian , and myself , the itinerant novelist , a slender youth of eighteen .
I even fancied that a smile was endeavoring to disturb the iron gravity of the preacher 's mouth .
`` Good people , '' answered he , `` the camp-meeting is broke up . ''
So saying , the Methodist minister switched his steed , and rode westward .
Our union being thus nullified , by the removal of its object , we were sundered at once to the four winds of heaven .
The fortune-teller , giving a nod to all , and a peculiar wink to me , departed on his northern tour , chuckling within himself as he took the Stamford road .
The old showman and his literary coadjutor were already tackling their horses to the wagon , with a design to peregrinate southwest along the seacoast .
The foreigner and the merry damsel took their laughing leave , and pursued the eastern road , which I had that day trodden ; as they passed away , the young man played a lively strain , and the girl 's happy spirit broke into a dance ; and thus , dissolving , as it were , into sunbeams and gay music , that pleasant pair departed from my view .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Sister_Years_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
Last night , between eleven and twelve o'clock , when the Old Year was leaving her final foot prints on the borders of Time 's empire , she found herself in possession of a few spare moments , and sat down -- of all places in the world -- on the steps of our new City Hall .
The wintry moonlight showed that she looked weary of body , and sad of heart , like many another wayfarer of earth .
Her garments , having been exposed to much foul weather , and rough usage , were in very ill condition ; and as the hurry of her journey had never before allowed her to take an instant 's rest , her shoes were so worn as to be scarcely worth the mending .
But , after trudging only a little distance farther , this poor Old Year was destined to enjoy a long , long sleep .
I forgot to mention , that when she seated herself on the steps , she deposited by her side a very capacious bandbox , in which , as is the custom among travellers of her sex , she carried a great deal of valuable property .
Besides this luggage , there was a folio book under her arm , very much resembling the annual volume of a newspaper .
Placing this volume across her knees , and resting her elbows upon it , with her forehead in her hands , the weary , bedraggled , world-worn Old Year heaved a heavy sigh , and appeared to be taking no very pleasant retrospect of her past existence .
While she thus awaited the midnight knell , that was to summon her to the innumerable sisterhood of departed Years , there came a young maiden treading lightsomely on tiptoe along the street , from the direction of the Railroad Depot .
She was evidently a stranger , and perhaps had come to town by the evening train of cars .
There was a smiling cheerfulness in this fair maiden 's face , which bespoke her fully confident of a kind reception from the multitude of people , with whom she was soon to form acquaintance .
Her dress was rather too airy for the season , and was bedizened with fluttering ribbons and other vanities , which were likely soon to be rent away by the fierce storms , or to fade in the hot sunshine , amid which she was to pursue her changeful course .
But still she was a wonderfully pleasant looking figure , and had so much promise and such an indescribable hopefulness in her aspect , that hardly anybody could meet her without anticipating some very desirable thing -- the consummation of some long-sought good -- from her kind offices .
A few dismal characters there may be , here and there about the world , who have so often been trifled with by young maidens as promising as she , that they have now ceased to pin any faith upon the skirts of the New Year .
But , for my own part , I have great faith in her ; and should I live to see fifty more such , still , from each of those successive sisters , I shall reckon upon receiving something that will be worth living for .
The New Year -- for this young maiden was no less a personage -- carried all her goods and chattels in a basket of no great size or weight , which hung upon her arm .
She greeted the disconsolate Old Year with great affection , and sat down beside her on the steps of the City Hall , waiting for the signal to begin her rambles through the world .
The two were own sisters , being both granddaughters of Time ; and though one looked so much older than the other , it was rather owing to hardships and trouble than to age , since there was but a twelvemonth 's difference between them .
`` Well , my dear sister , '' said the New Year , after the first salutations , `` you look almost tired to death .
What have you been about during your sojourn in this part of Infinite Space ? ''
`` O , I have it all recorded here in my Book of Chronicles , '' answered the Old Year , in a heavy tone .
`` There is nothing that would amuse you ; and you will soon get sufficient knowledge of such matters from your own personal experience .
It is but tiresome reading . ''
Nevertheless , she turned over the leaves of the folio , and glanced at them by the light of the moon , feeling an irresistible spell of interest in her own biography , although its incidents were remembered without pleasure .
The volume , though she termed it her Book of Chronicles , seemed to be neither more nor less than the Salem Gazette for 1838 ; in the accuracy of which journal this sagacious Old Year had so much confidence , that she deemed it needless to record her history with her own pen .
`` What have you been doing in the political way ? ''
asked the New Year .
`` Why , my course here in the United States , '' said the Old Year , -- `` though perhaps I ought to blush at the confession , -- my political course , I must acknowledge , has been rather vacillatory , sometimes inclining towards the Whigs , -- then causing the Administration party to shout for triumph , -- and now again uplifting what seemed the almost prostrate banner of the Opposition ; so that historians will hardly know what to make of me , in this respect .
But the Loco Focos -- '' `` I do not like these party nicknames , '' interrupted her sister , who seemed remarkably touchy about some points .
`` Perhaps we shall part in better humor , if we avoid any political discussion . ''
`` With all my heart , '' replied the Old Year , who had already been tormented half to death with squabbles of this kind .
`` I care not if the navies of Whig or Tory , with their interminable brawls about Banks and the Sub-Treasury , Abolition , Texas , the Florida War , and a million of other topics , -- which you will learn soon enough for your own comfort , -- I care not , I say , if no whisper of these matters ever reaches my ears again .
Yet they have occupied so large a share of my attention , that I scarcely know what else to tell you .
There has indeed been a curious sort of war on the Canada border , where blood has streamed in the names of Liberty and Patriotism ; but it must remain for some future , perhaps far distant Year , to tell whether or no those holy names have been rightfully invoked .
Nothing so much depresses me , in my view of mortal affairs , as to see high energies wasted , and human life and happiness thrown away , for ends that appear oftentimes unwise , and still oftener remain unaccomplished .
But the wisest people and the best keep a steadfast faith that the progress of Mankind is onward and upward , and that the toil and anguish of the path serve to wear away the imperfections of the Immortal Pilgrim , and will be felt no more , when they have done their office . ''
`` Perhaps , '' cried the hopeful New Year , -- `` perhaps I shall see that happy day ! ''
`` I doubt whether it be so close at hand , '' answered the Old Year , gravely smiling .
`` You will soon grow weary of looking for that blessed consummation , and will turn for amusement -LRB- as has frequently been my own practice -RRB- to the affairs of some sober little city , like this of Salem .
Here we sit on the steps of the new City Hall , which has been completed under my administration ; and it would make you laugh to see how the game of politics , of which the Capitol at Washington is the great chess-board , is here played in miniature .
Burning Ambition finds its fuel here ; here Patriotism speaks boldly in the people 's behalf , and virtuous Economy demands retrenchment in the emoluments of a lamplighter ; here the Aldermen range their senatorial dignity around the Mayor 's chair of state , and the Common Council feel that they have liberty in charge .
In short , human weakness and strength , passion and policy , Man 's tendencies , his aims and modes of pursuing them , his individual character , and his character in the mass , may be studied almost as well here as on the theatre of nations ; and with this great advantage , that , be the lesson ever so disastrous , its Liliputian scope still makes the beholder smile . ''
`` Have you done much for the improvement of the City ? ''
asked the New Year .
`` Judging from what little I have seen , it appears to be ancient and timeworn . ''
`` I have opened the Railroad , '' said the elder Year , `` and half a dozen times a day , you will hear the bell -LRB- which once summoned the Monks of a Spanish Convent to their devotions -RRB- announcing the arrival or departure of the cars .
Old Salem now wears a much livelier expression than when I first beheld her .
Strangers rumble down from Boston by hundreds at a time .
New faces throng in Essex Street .
Railroad-hacks and omnibuses rattle over the pavements .
There is a perceptible increase of oyster-shops , and other establishments for the accommodation of a transitory diurnal multitude .
But a more important change awaits the venerable town .
An immense accumulation of musty prejudices will be carried off by the free circulation of society .
A peculiarity of character , of which the inhabitants themselves are hardly sensible , will be rubbed down and worn away by the attrition of foreign substances .
Much of the result will be good ; there will likewise be a few things not so good .
Whether for better or worse , there will be a probable diminution of the moral influence of wealth , and the sway of an aristocratic class , which , from an era far beyond my memory , has held firmer dominion here than in any other New England town . ''
The Old Year having talked away nearly all of her little remaining breath , now closed her Book of Chronicles , and was about to take her departure .
But her sister detained her awhile longer , by inquiring the contents of the huge bandbox , which she was so painfully lugging along with her .
`` These are merely a few trifles , '' replied the Old Year , `` which I have picked up in my rambles , and am going to deposit , in the receptacle of things past and forgotten .
We sisterhood of Years never carry anything really valuable out of the world with us .
Here are patterns of most of the fashions which I brought into vogue , and which have already lived out their allotted term .
You will supply their place , with others equally ephemeral .
Here , put up in little China pots , like rouge , is a considerable lot of beautiful women 's bloom , which the disconsolate fair ones owe me a bitter grudge for stealing .
I have likewise a quantity of men 's dark hair , instead of which , I have left gray locks , or none at all .
The tears of widows and other afflicted mortals , who have received comfort during the last twelve months , are preserved in some dozens of essence-bottles , well corked and sealed .
I have several bundles of love-letters , eloquently breathing an eternity of burning passion , which grew cold and perished , almost before the ink was dry .
Moreover , here is an assortment of many thousand broken promises , and other broken ware , all very light and packed into little space .
The heaviest articles in my possession are a large parcel of disappointed hopes , which , a little while ago , were buoyant enough to have inflated Mr. Lauriat 's balloon . ''
`` I have a fine lot of hopes here in my basket , '' remarked the New Year .
`` They are a sweet-smelling flower , -- a species of rose . ''
`` They soon lose their perfume , '' replied the sombre Old Year .
`` What else have you brought to insure a welcome from the discontented race of mortals ? ''
`` Why , to say the truth , little or nothing else , '' said her sister , with a smile , -- `` save a few new Annuals and Almanacs , and some New Year 's gifts for the children .
But I heartily wish well to poor mortals , and mean to do all I can for their improvement and happiness . ''
`` It is a good resolution , '' rejoined the Old Year ; `` and , by the way , I have a plentiful assortment of good resolutions , which have now grown so stale and musty , that I am ashamed to carry them any farther .
Only for fear that the City authorities would send Constable Mansfield , with a warrant after me , I should toss them into the street at once .
Many other matters go to make up the contents of my bandbox ; but the whole lot would not fetch a single bid , even at an auction of worn-out furniture ; and as they are worth nothing either to you or anybody else , I need not trouble you with a longer catalogue . ''
`` And must I also pickup such worthless luggage in my travels ? ''
asked the New Year .
`` Most certainly ; and well , if you have no heavier load to bear , '' replied the other .
`` And now , my dear sister , I must bid you farewell , earnestly advising and exhorting you to expect no gratitude ` nor goodwill from this peevish , unreasonable , inconsiderate , ill-intending , and worse-behaving world .
However warmly its inhabitants may seen to welcome you , yet , do what you may , and lavish on them what means of happiness you please , they will still be complaining , still craving what it is not in your power to give , still looking forward to some other Year for the accomplishment of projects which ought never to have been formed , and which , if successful , would only provide new occasions of discontent .
If these ridiculous people ever see anything tolerable in you , it will be after you are gone forever . ''
`` But I , '' cried the fresh-hearted New Year , -- `` I shall try to leave men wiser than I find them .
I will offer them freely whatever good gifts Providence permits me to distribute , and will tell them to be thankful for what they have , and humbly hopeful for more ; and surely , if they are not absolute fools , they will condescend to be happy , and will allow me to be a happy Year .
For my happiness must depend on them . ''
`` Alas for you , then , my poor sister ! ''
said the Old fear , sighing , as she uplifted her burden .
`` We grand-children of Time are born to trouble .
Happiness , they say , dwells in the mansions of Eternity ; but we can only lead mortals thither , step by step , with reluctant murmurings , and ourselves must perish on the threshold .
But hark !
my task is done . ''
The clock in the tall steeple of Dr. Emerson 's church struck twelve ; there was a response from Dr. Flint 's , in the opposite quarter of the city ; and while the strokes were yet dropping into the air , the Old Year either flitted or faded away ; and not the wisdom and might of Angels , to say nothing of the remorseful yearnings of the millions who had used her ill , could have prevailed with that departed Year to return one step .
But she , in the company of Time and all her kindred , must hereafter hold a reckoning with Mankind .
So shall it be , likewise , with the maidenly New Year , who , as the clock ceased to strike , arose from the steps of the City Hall , and set out rather timorously on her earthly course .
`` A happy New Year ! ''
cried a watchman , eying her figure very questionably , but without the least suspicion that he was addressing the New Year in person .
`` Thank you kindly ! ''
said the New Year ; and she gave the watchman one of the roses of hope from her basket .
`` May this flower keep a sweet smell , long after I have bidden you good by . ''
Then she stepped on more briskly through the silent streets ; and such as were awake at the moment , heard her footfall , and said , `` The New Year is come ! ''
Wherever there was a knot of midnight roisterers , they quaffed her health .
She sighed , however , to perceive that the air was tainted -- as the atmosphere of this world must continually be -- with the dying breaths of mortals who had lingered just long enough for her to bury them .
But there were millions left alive , to rejoice at her coming ; and so she pursued her way with confidence , strewing emblematic flowers on the doorstep of almost every dwelling , which some persons will gather up and wear in their bosoms , and others will trample under foot .
The Carrier Boy can only say further , that , early this morning , she filled his basket with New Year 's Addresses , assuring him that the whole City , with our new Mayor , and the Aldermen and Common Council at its head , would make a general rush to secure copies .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Three_Golden_Apples.txt.out
INTRODUCTORY TO `` THE THREE GOLDEN APPLES '' The snow-storm lasted another day ; but what became of it afterwards , I can not possibly imagine .
At any rate , it entirely cleared away , during the night ; and when the sun arose , the next morning , it shone brightly down on as bleak a tract of hill-country , here in Berkshire , as could be seen anywhere in the world .
The frost-work had so covered the windowpanes that it was hardly possible to get a glimpse at the scenery outside .
But , while waiting for breakfast , the small populace of Tanglewood had scratched peepholes with their finger-nails , and saw with vast delight that -- unless it were one or two bare patches on a precipitous hillside , or the gray effect of the snow , intermingled with the black pine forest -- all nature was as white as a sheet .
How exceedingly pleasant !
And , to make it all the better , it was cold enough to nip one 's nose short off !
If people have but life enough in them to bear it , there is nothing that so raises the spirits , and makes the blood ripple and dance so nimbly , like a brook down the slope of a hill , as a bright , hard frost .
No sooner was breakfast over , than the whole party , well muffled in furs and woollens , floundered forth into the midst of the snow .
Well , what a day of frosty sport was this !
They slid down hill into the valley , a hundred times , nobody knows how far ; and , to make it all the merrier , upsetting their sledges , and tumbling head over heels , quite as often as they came safely to the bottom .
And , once , Eustace Bright took Periwinkle , Sweet Fern , and Squash-blossom , on the sledge with him , by way of insuring a safe passage ; and down they went , full speed .
But , behold , half-way down , the sledge hit against a hidden stump , and flung all four of its passengers into a heap ; and , on gathering themselves up , there was no little Squash-blossom to be found !
Why , what could have become of the child ?
And while they were wondering and staring about , up started Squash-blossom out of a snow-bank , with the reddest face you ever saw , and looking as if a large scarlet flower had suddenly sprouted up in midwinter .
Then there was a great laugh .
When they had grown tired of sliding down hill , Eustace set the children to digging a cave in the biggest snow-drift that they could find .
Unluckily , just as it was completed , and the party had squeezed themselves into the hollow , down came the roof upon their heads , and buried every soul of them alive !
The next moment , up popped all their little heads out of the ruins , and the tall student 's head in the midst of them , looking hoary and venerable with the snow-dust that had got amongst his brown curls .
And then , to punish Cousin Eustace for advising them to dig such a tumble-down cavern , the children attacked him in a body , and so bepelted him with snowballs that he was fain to take to his heels .
So he ran away , and went into the woods , and thence to the margin of Shadow Brook , where he could hear the streamlet grumbling along , under great overhanging banks of snow and ice , which would scarcely let it see the light of day .
There were adamantine icicles glittering around all its little cascades .
Thence be strolled to the shore of the lake , and beheld a white , untrodden plain before him , stretching from his own feet to the foot of Monument Mountain .
And , it being now almost sunset , Eustace thought that he had never beheld anything so fresh and beautiful as the scene .
He was glad that the children were not with him ; for their lively spirits and tumble-about activity would quite have chased away his higher and graver mood , so that he would merely have been merry -LRB- as he had already been , the whole day long -RRB- , and would not have known the loveliness of the winter sunset among the hills .
When the sun was fairly down , our friend Eustace went home to eat his supper .
After the meal was over , he betook himself to the study , with a purpose , I rather imagine , to write an ode , or two or three sonnets , or verses of some kind or other , in praise of the purple and golden clouds which he had seen around the setting sun .
But , before he had hammered out the very first rhyme , the door opened , and Primrose and Periwinkle made their appearance .
`` Go away , children !
I ca n't be troubled with you now ! ''
cried the student , looking over his shoulder , with the pen between his fingers .
`` What in the world do you want here ?
I thought you were all in bed ! ''
`` Hear him , Periwinkle , trying to talk like a grown man ! ''
said Primrose .
`` And he seems to forget that I am now thirteen years old , and may sit up almost as late as I please .
But , Cousin Eustace , you must put off your airs , and come with us to the drawing-room .
The children have talked so much about your stories , that my father wishes to hear one of them , in order to judge whether they are likely to do any mischief . ''
`` Poh , poh , Primrose ! ''
exclaimed the student , rather vexed .
`` I do n't believe I can tell one of my stories in the presence of grown people .
Besides , your father is a classical scholar ; not that I am much afraid of his scholarship , neither , for I doubt not it is as rusty as an old case-knife , by this time .
But then he will be sure to quarrel with the admirable nonsense that I put into these stories , out of my own head , and which makes the great charm of the matter for children , like yourself .
No man of fifty , who has read the classical myths in his youth , can possibly understand my merit as a re-inventor and improver of them . ''
`` All this may be very true , '' said Primrose , `` but come you must !
My father will not open his book , nor will mamma open the piano , till you have given us some of your nonsense , as you very correctly call it .
So be a good boy , and come along . ''
Whatever he might pretend , the student was rather glad than otherwise , on second thoughts , to catch at the opportunity of proving to Mr. Pringle what an excellent faculty he had in modernizing the myths of ancient times .
Until twenty years of age , a young man may , indeed , be rather bashful about showing his poetry and his prose ; but , for all that , he is pretty apt to think that these very productions would place him at the tip-top of literature , if once they could be known .
Accordingly , without much more resistance , Eustace suffered Primrose and Periwinkle to drag him into the drawing-room .
It was a large handsome apartment , with a semicircular window at one end , in the recess of which stood a marble copy of Greenough 's Angel and Child .
On one side of the fireplace there were many shelves of books , gravely but richly bound .
The white light of the astrallamp , and the red glow of the bright coal-fire , made the room brilliant and cheerful ; and before the fire , in a deep arm-chair , sat Mr. Pringle , looking just fit to be seated in such a chair , and in such a room .
He was a tall and quite a handsome gentleman , with a bald brow ; and was always so nicely dressed , that even Eustace Bright never liked to enter his presence , without at least pausing at the threshold to settle his shirt-collar .
But now , as Primrose had hold of one of his hands , and Periwinkle of the other , he was forced to make his appearance with a rough-and-tumble sort of look , as if he had been rolling all day in a snow-bank .
And so he had .
Mr. Pringle turned towards the student , benignly enough , but in a way that made him feel how uncombed and unbrushed he was , and how uncombed and unbrushed , likewise , were his mind and thoughts .
`` Eustace , '' said Mr. Pringle , with a smile , `` I find that you are producing a great sensation among the little public of Tanglewood , by the exercise of your gifts of narrative .
Primrose here , as the little folks choose to call her , and the rest of the children , have been so loud in praise of your stories , that Mrs. Pringle and myself are really curious to hear a specimen .
It would be so much the more gratifying to myself , as the stories appear to be an attempt to render the fables of classical antiquity into the idiom of modern fancy and feeling .
At least , so I judge from a few of the incidents , which have come to me at second hand . ''
`` You are not exactly the auditor that I should have chosen , sir , '' observed the student , `` for fantasies of this nature . ''
`` Possibly not , '' replied Mr. Pringle .
`` I suspect , however , that a young author 's most useful critic is precisely the one whom he would be least apt to choose .
Pray oblige me , therefore . ''
`` Sympathy , methinks , should have some little share in the critic 's qualifications , '' murmured Eustace Bright .
`` However , sir , if you will find patience , I will find stories .
But be kind enough to remember that I am addressing myself to the imagination and sympathies of the children , not to your own . ''
Accordingly , the student snatched hold of the first theme which presented itself .
It was suggested by a plate of apples that he happened to spy on the mantel-piece .
THE THREE GOLDEN APPLES .
Did you ever hear of the golden apples , that grew in the garden of the Hesperides ?
Ah , those were such apples as would bring a great price , by the bushel , if any of them could be found growing in the orchards of nowadays !
But there is not , I suppose , a graft of that wonderful fruit on a single tree in the wide world .
Not so much as a seed of those apples exists any longer .
And , even in the old , old , half-forgotten times , before the garden of the Hesperides was overrun with weeds , a great many people doubted whether there could be real trees that bore apples of solid gold upon their branches .
All had heard of them , but nobody remembered to have seen any .
Children , nevertheless , used to listen , open-mouthed , to stories of the golden apple-tree , and resolved to discover it , when they should be big enough .
Adventurous young men , who desired to do a braver thing than any of their fellows , set out in quest of this fruit .
Many of them returned no more ; none of them brought back the apples .
No wonder that they found it impossible to gather them !
It is said that there was a dragon beneath the tree , with a hundred terrible heads , fifty of which were always on the watch , while the other fifty slept .
In my opinion it was hardly worth running so much risk for the sake of a solid golden apple .
Had the apples been sweet , mellow , and juicy , indeed that would be another matter .
There might then have been some sense in trying to get at them , in spite of the hundred-headed dragon .
But , as I have already told you , it was quite a common thing with young persons , when tired of too much peace and rest , to go in search of the garden of the Hesperides .
And once the adventure was undertaken by a hero who had enjoyed very little peace or rest since he came into the world .
At the time of which I am going to speak , he was wandering through the pleasant land of Italy , with a mighty club in his hand , and a bow and quiver slung across his shoulders .
He was wrapt in the skin of the biggest and fiercest lion that ever had been seen , and which he himself had killed ; and though , on the whole , he was kind , and generous , and noble , there was a good deal of the lion 's fierceness in his heart .
As he went on his way , he continually inquired whether that were the right road to the famous garden .
But none of the country people knew anything about the matter , and many looked as if they would have laughed at the question , if the stranger had not carried so very big a club .
So he journeyed on and on , still making the same inquiry , until , at last , he came to the brink of a river where some beautiful young women sat twining wreaths of flowers .
`` Can you tell me , pretty maidens , '' asked the stranger , `` whether this is the right way to the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
The young women had been having a fine time together , weaving the flowers into wreaths , and crowning one another 's heads .
And there seemed to be a kind of magic in the touch of their fingers , that made the flowers more fresh and dewy , and of brighter lines , and sweeter fragrance , while they played with them , than even when they had been growing on their native stems .
But , on hearing the stranger 's question , they dropped all their flowers on the grass , and gazed at him with astonishment .
`` The garden of the Hesperides ! ''
cried one .
`` We thought mortals had been weary of seeking it , after so many disappointments .
And pray , adventurous traveller , what do you want there ? ''
`` A certain king , who is my cousin , '' replied he , `` has ordered me to get him three of the golden apples . ''
`` Most of the young men who go in quest of these apples , '' observed another of the damsels , `` desire to obtain them for themselves , or to present them to some fair maiden whom they love .
Do you , then , love this king , your cousin , so very much ? ''
`` Perhaps not , '' replied the stranger , sighing .
`` He has often been severe and cruel to me .
But it is my destiny to obey him . ''
`` And do you know , '' asked the damsel who had first spoken , `` that a terrible dragon , with a hundred heads , keeps watch under the golden apple-tree ? ''
`` I know it well , '' answered the stranger , calmly .
`` But , from my cradle upwards , it has been my business , and almost my pastime , to deal with serpents and dragons . ''
The young women looked at his massive club , and at the shaggy lion 's skin which he wore , and likewise at his heroic limbs and figure ; and they whispered to each other that the stranger appeared to be one who might reasonably expect to perform deeds far beyond the might of other men .
But , then , the dragon with a hundred heads !
What mortal , even if he possessed a hundred lives , could hope to escape the fangs of such a monster ?
So kind-hearted were the maidens , that they could not bear to see this brave and , handsome traveller attempt what was so very dangerous , and devote himself , most probably , to become a meal for the dragon 's hundred ravenous mouths .
`` Go back , '' cried they all , -- `` go back to your own home !
Your mother , beholding you safe and sound , will shed tears of joy ; and what can she do more , should you win ever so great a victory ?
No matter for the golden apples !
No matter for the king , your cruel cousin !
We do not wish the dragon with the hundred heads to eat you up ! ''
The stranger seemed to grow impatient at these remonstrances .
He carelessly lifted his mighty club , and let it fall upon a rock that lay half buried in the earth , near by .
With the force of that idle blow , the great rock was shattered all to pieces .
It cost the stranger no more effort to achieve this feat of a giant 's strength than for one of the young maidens to touch her sister 's rosy cheek with a flower .
`` Do you not believe , '' said he , looking at the damsels with a smile , `` that such a blow would have crushed one of the dragon 's hundred heads ? ''
Then he sat down on the grass , and told them the story of his life , or as much of it as he could remember , from the day when he was first cradled in a warrior 's brazen shield .
While he lay there , two immense serpents came gliding over the floor , and opened their hideous jaws to devour him ; and he , a baby of a few months old , had griped one of the fierce snakes in each of his little fists , and strangled them to death .
When he was but a stripling , he had killed a huge lion , almost as big as the one whose vast and shaggy hide he now wore upon his shoulders .
The next thing that he had done was to fight a battle with an ugly sort of monster , called a hydra , which had no less than nine heads , and exceedingly sharp teeth in every one of them .
`` But the dragon of the Hesperides , you know , '' observed one of the damsels , `` has a hundred heads ! ''
`` Nevertheless , '' replied the stranger , `` I would rather fight two such dragons than a single hydra .
For , as fast as I cut off a head , two others grew in its place ; and , besides , there was one of the heads that could not possibly be killed , but kept biting as fiercely as ever , long after it was cut off .
So I was forced to bury it under a stone , where it is doubtless alive , to this vary day .
But the hydra 's body , and its eight other heads , will never do any further mischief . ''
The damsels , judging that the story was likely to last a good while , had been preparing a repast of bread and grapes , that the stranger might refresh himself in the intervals of his talk .
They took pleasure in helping him to this simple food ; and , now and then , one of them would put a sweet grape between her rosy lips , lest it should make him bashful to eat alone .
The traveller proceeded to tell how he had chased a very swift stag , for a twelve-month together , without ever stopping to take breath , and had at last caught it by the antlers , and carried it home alive .
And he had fought with a very odd race of people , half horses and half men , and had put them all to death , from a sense of duty , in order that their ugly figures might never be seen any more .
Besides all this , he took to himself great credit for having cleaned out a stable .
`` Do you call that a wonderful exploit ? ''
asked one of the young maidens , with a smile .
`` Any clown in the country has done as much ! ''
`` Had it been an ordinary stable , '' replied the stranger , `` I should not have mentioned it .
But this was so gigantic a task that it would have taken me all my life to perform it , if I had not luckily thought of turning the channel of a river through the stable-door .
That did the business in a very short time ! ''
Seeing how earnestly his fair auditors listened , he next told them how he had shot some monstrous birds , and had caught a wild bull alive , and let him go again , and had tamed a number of very wild horses , and had conquered Hippolyta , the warlike queen of the Amazons .
He mentioned , likewise , that he had taken off Hippolyta 's enchanted girdle , and had given it to the daughter of his cousin , the king .
`` Was it the girdle of Venus , '' inquired the prettiest of the damsels , `` which makes women beautiful ? ''
`` No , '' answered the stranger .
`` It had formerly been the sword-belt of Mars ; and it can only make the wearer valiant and courageous . ''
`` An old sword-belt ! ''
cried the damsel , tossing her head .
`` Then I should not care about having it ! ''
`` You are right , '' said the stranger .
Going on with his wonderful narrative , he informed the maidens that as strange an adventure as ever happened was when he fought with Geryon , the six-legged man .
This was a very odd and frightful sort of figure , as you may well believe .
Any person , looking at his tracks in the sand or snow , would suppose that three sociable companions had been walking along together .
On hearing his footsteps at , a little distance , it was no more than reasonable to judge that several people must be coming .
But it was only the strange man Geryon clattering onward , with his six legs !
Six legs , and one gigantic body !
Certainly , he must have been a very queer monster to look at ; and , my stars , what a waste of shoe-leather !
When the stranger had finished the story of his adventures , he looked around at the attentive faces of the maidens .
`` Perhaps you may have heard of me before , '' said he , modestly .
`` My name is Hercules ! ''
`` We had already guessed it , '' replied the maidens ; `` for your wonderful deeds are known all over the world .
We do not think it strange , any longer , that you should set out in quest of the golden apples of the Hesperides .
Come , sisters , let us crown the hero with flowers ! ''
Then they flung beautiful wreaths over his stately head and mighty shoulders , so that the lion 's skin was almost entirely covered with roses .
They took possession of his ponderous club , and so entwined it about with the brightest , softest , and most fragrant blossoms , that not a finger 's breadth of its oaken substance could be seen .
It looked all like a huge bunch of flowers .
Lastly , they joined hands , and danced around him , chanting words which became poetry of their own accord , and grew into a choral song , in honor of the illustrious Hercules .
And Hercules was rejoiced , as any other hero would have been , to know that these fair young girls had heard of the valiant deeds which it had cost him so much toil and danger to achieve .
But , still , he was not satisfied .
He could not think that what he had already done was worthy of so much honor , while there remained any bold or difficult adventure to be undertaken .
`` Dear maidens , '' said he , when they paused to take breath , `` now that you know my name , will you not tell me how I am to reach the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
`` Ah !
must you go so soon ? ''
they exclaimed .
`` You -- that have performed so many wonders , and spent such a toilsome life -- can not you content yourself to repose a little while on the margin of this peaceful river ? ''
Hercules shook his head .
`` I must depart now , '' said he .
`` We will then give you the best directions we can , '' replied the damsels .
`` You must go to the sea-shore , and find out the Old One , and compel him to inform you where the golden apples are to be found . ''
`` The Old One ! ''
repeated Hercules , laughing at this odd name .
`` And , pray , who may the Old One be ? ''
`` Why , the Old Man of the Sea , to be sure ! ''
answered one of the damsels .
`` He has fifty daughters , whom some people call very beautiful ; but we do not think it proper to be acquainted with them , because they have sea-green hair , and taper away like fishes .
You must talk with this Old Man of the Sea .
He is a sea-faring person , and knows all about the garden of the Hesperides ; for it is situated in an island which he is often in the habit of visiting . ''
Hercules then asked whereabouts the Old One was most likely to be met with .
When the damsels had informed him , he thanked them for all their kindness , -- for the bread and grapes with which they had fed him , the lovely flowers with which they had crowned him , and the songs and dances wherewith they had done him honor , -- and he thanked them , most of all , for telling him the right way , -- and immediately set forth upon his Journey .
But , before he was out of hearing , one of the maidens called after him .
`` Keep fast hold of the Old-One , when you catch him ! ''
cried she , smiling , and lifting her finger to make the caution more impressive .
`` Do not be astonished at anything that may happen .
Only hold him fast , and he will tell you what you wish to know . ''
Hercules again thanked her , and pursued his way , while the maidens resumed their pleasant labor of making flower-wreaths .
They talked about the hero , long after he was gone .
`` We will crown him with the loveliest of our garlands , '' said they , `` when he returns hither with the three golden apples , after slaying the dragon with a hundred heads . ''
Meanwhile , Hercules travelled constantly onward , over hill and dale , and through the solitary woods .
Sometimes he swung his club aloft , and splintered a mighty oak with a downright blow .
His mind was so full of the giants and monsters with whom it was the business of his life to fight , that perhaps he mistook the great tree for a giant or a monster .
And so eager was Hercules to achieve what he had undertaken , that he almost regretted to have spent so much time with the damsels , wasting idle breath upon the story of his adventures .
But thus it always is with persons who are destined to perform great things .
What they have already done seems less than nothing .
What they have taken in hand to do seems worth toil , danger , and life itself .
Persons who happened to be passing through the forest must have been affrighted to see him smite the trees with his great club .
With but a single blow , the trunk was riven as by the stroke of lightning , and the broad boughs came rustling and crashing down .
Hastening forward , without ever pausing or looking behind , he by and by heard the sea roaring at a distance .
At this sound , he increased his speed , and soon came to a beach , where the great surf-waves tumbled themselves upon the hard sand , in a long line of snowy foam .
At one end of the beach , however , there was a pleasant spot , where some green shrubbery clambered up a cliff , making its rocky face look soft and beautiful .
A carpet of verdant grass , largely intermixed with sweet-smelling clover , covered the narrow space between the bottom of the cliff and the sea .
And what should Hercules espy there , but an old man , fast asleep !
But was it really and truly an old man ?
Certainly , at first sight , it looked very like one ; but , on closer inspection , it rather seemed to be some kind of a creature that lived in the sea .
For , on his legs and arms there were scales , such as fishes have ; he was web-footed and web-fingered , after the fashion of a duck ; and his long beard , being of a greenish tinge , had more the appearance of a tuft of sea-weed than of an ordinary beard .
Have you never seen a stick of timber , that has been long tossed about by the waves , and has got all overgrown with barnacles , and , at last drifting ashore , seems to have been thrown up from the very deepest bottom of the sea ?
Well , the old man would have put you in mind of just such a wave-tost spar !
But Hercules , the instant he set eyes on this strange figure , was convinced that it could be no other than the Old One , who was to direct him on his way .
Yes ; it was the selfsame Old Man of the Sea , whom the hospitable maidens had talked to him about .
Thanking his stars for the lucky accident of finding the old fellow asleep , Hercules stole on tiptoe towards him , and caught him by the arm and leg .
`` Tell me , '' cried he , before the Old One was well awake , `` which is the way to the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
As you may easily imagine , the Old Man of the Sea awoke in a fright .
But his astonishment could hardly have been greater than was that of Hercules , the next moment .
For , all of a sudden , the Old One seemed to disappear out of his grasp , and he found himself holding a stag by the fore and hind leg !
But still he kept fast hold .
Then the stag disappeared , and in its stead there was a sea-bird , fluttering and screaming , while Hercules clutched it by the wing and claw !
But the bird could not get away .
Immediately afterwards , there was an ugly three-headed dog , which growled and barked at Hercules , and snapped fiercely at the hands by which he held him !
But Hercules would not let him go .
In another minute , instead of the three-headed dog , what should appear but Geryon , the six-legged man-monster , kicking at Hercules with five of his legs , in order to get the remaining one at liberty !
But Hercules held on .
By and by , no Geryou was there , but a huge snake , like one of those which Hercules had strangled in his babyhood , only a hundred times as big , and it twisted and twined about the hero 's neck and body , and threw its tail high into the air , and opened its deadly jaws as if to devour him outright ; so that it was really a very terrible spectacle !
But Hercules was no whit disheartened , and squeezed the great snake so tightly that he soon began to hiss with pain .
You must understand that the Old Man of the Sea , though he generally looked so much like the wave-beaten figure-head of a vessel , had the power of assuming any shape he pleased .
When he found himself so roughly seized by Hercules , he had been in hopes of putting him into such surprise and terror , by these magical transformations , that the hero would be glad to let him go .
If Hercules had relaxed his grasp , the Old One would certainly have plunged down to the very bottom of the sea , whence he would not soon have given himself the trouble of coming up , in order to answer any impertinent questions .
Ninety-nine people out of a hundred , I suppose , would have been frightened out of their wits by the very first of his ugly shapes , and would have taken to their heels at once .
For , one of the hardest things in this world is , to see the difference between real dangers and imaginary ones .
But , as Hercules held on so stubbornly , and only squeezed the Old One so much the tighter at every change of shape , and really put him to no small torture , he finally thought it best to reappear in his own figure .
So there he was again , a fishy , scaly , webfooted sort of personage , with something like a tuft of sea-weed at his chin .
`` Pray , what do you want with me ? ''
cried the Old One , as soon as he could take breath ; for it is quite a tiresome affair to go through so many false shapes .
`` Why do you squeeze me so hard ?
Let me go , this moment , or I shall begin to consider you an extremely uncivil person ! ''
`` My name is Hercules ! ''
roared the mighty stranger .
`` And you will never get out of my clutch , until you tell me the nearest way to the garden of the Hesperides ! ''
When the old fellow heard who it was that had caught him , he saw , with half an eye , that it would be necessary to tell him everything that he wanted to know .
The Old One was an inhabitant of the sea , you must recollect , and roamed about everywhere , like other sea-faring people .
Of course , he had often heard of the fame of Hercules , and of the wonderful things that he was constantly performing , in various parts of the earth , and how determined he always was to accomplish whatever he undertook .
He therefore made no more attempts to escape , but told the hero how to find the garden of the Hesperides , and likewise warned him of many difficulties which must be overcome , before he could arrive thither .
`` You must go on , thus and thus , '' said the Old Man of the Sea , after taking the points of the compass , `` till you come in sight of a very tall giant , who holds the sky on his shoulders .
And the giant , if he happens to be in the humor , will tell you exactly where the garden of the Hesperides lies . ''
`` And if the giant happens not to be in the humor , '' remarked Hercules , balancing his club on the tip of his finger , `` perhaps I shall find means to persuade him ! ''
Thanking the Old Man of the Sea , and begging his pardon for having squeezed him so roughly , the hero resumed his journey .
He met with a great many strange adventures , which would be well worth your hearing , if I had leisure to narrate them as minutely as they deserve .
It was in this journey , if I mistake not , that he encountered a prodigious giant , who was so wonderfully contrived by nature , that , every time he touched the earth , he became ten times as strong as ever he had been before .
His name was Antreus .
You may see , plainly enough , that it was a very difficult business to fight with such a fellow ; for , as often as he got a knock-down blow , up he started again , stronger , fiercer , and abler to use his weapons , than if his enemy had let him alone , Thus , the harder Hercules pounded the giant with his club , the further be seemed from winning the victory .
I have sometimes argued with such people , but never fought with one .
The only way in which Hercules found it possible to finish the battle , was by lifting Antaeus off his feet into the air , and squeezing , and squeezing , and squeezing him , until , finally , the strength was quite squeezed out of his enormous body .
When this affair was finished , Hercules continued his travels , and went to the land of Egypt , where he was taken prisoner , and would have been put to death , if he had not slain the king of the country , and made his escape .
Passing through the deserts of Africa , and going as fast as he could , he arrived at last on the shore of the great ocean .
And here , unless he could walk on the crests of the billows , it seemed as if his journey must needs be at an end .
Nothing was before him , save the foaming , dashing , measureless ocean .
But , suddenly , as he looked towards the horizon , he saw something , a great way off , which he had not seen the moment before .
It gleamed very brightly , almost as you may have beheld the round , golden disk of the sun , when it rises or sets over the edge of the world .
It evidently drew nearer ; for , at every instant , this wonderful object became larger and more lustrous .
At length , it had come so nigh that Hercules discovered it to be an immense cup or bowl , made either of gold or burnished brass .
How it had got afloat upon the sea , is more than I can tell you .
There it was , at all events , rolling on the tumultuous billows , which tossed it up and down , and heaved their foamy tops against its sides , but without ever throwing their spray over the brim .
`` I have seen many giants , in my time , '' thought Hercules , `` but never one that would need to drink his wine out of a cup like this ! ''
And , true enough , what a cup it must have been !
It was as large -- as large -- but , in short , I am afraid to say how immeasurably large it was .
To speak within bounds , it was ten times larger than a great mill-wheel ; and , all of metal as it was , it floated over the heaving surges more lightly than an acorn-cup adown the brook .
The waves tumbled it onward , until it grazed against the shore , within a short distance of the spot where Hercules was standing .
As soon as this happened , he knew what was to be done ; for he had not gone through so many remarkable adventures without learning pretty well how to conduct himself , whenever anything came to pass a little out of the common rule .
It was just as clear as daylight that this marvellous cup had been set adrift by some unseen power , and guided hitherward , in order to carry Hercules across the sea , on his way to the garden of the Hesperides .
Accordingly , without a moment 's delay , he clambered over the brim , and slid down on the inside , where , spreading out his lion 's skin , he proceeded to take a little repose .
He had scarcely rested , until now , since he bade farewell to the damsels on the margin of the river .
The waves dashed , with a pleasant and ringing sound , against the circumference of the hollow cup ; it rocked lightly to and fro , and the motion was so soothing that , it speedily rocked Hercules into an agreeable slumber .
His nap had probably lasted a good while , when the cup chanced to graze against a rock , and , in consequence , immediately resounded and reverberated through its golden or brazen substance , a hundred times as loudly as ever you heard a church-bell .
The noise awoke Hercules , who instantly started up and gazed around him , wondering whereabouts he was .
He was not long in discovering that the cup had floated across a great part of the sea , and was approaching the shore of what seemed to be an island .
And , on that island , what do you think he saw ?
No ; you will never guess it , not if you were to try fifty thousand times !
It positively appears to me that this was the most marvellous spectacle that had ever been seen by Hercules , in the whole course of his wonderful travels and adventures .
It was a greater marvel than the hydra with nine heads , which kept growing twice as fast as they were cut off ; greater than the six-legged man-monster ; greater than Antreus ; greater than anything that was ever beheld by anybody , before or since the days of Hercules , or than anything that remains to be beheld , by travellers in all time to come .
It was a giant !
But such an intolerably big giant !
A giant as tall as a mountain ; so vast a giant , that the clouds rested about his midst , like a girdle , and hung like a hoary beard from his chin , and flitted before his huge eyes , so that he could neither see Hercules nor the golden cup in which he was voyaging .
And , most wonderful of all , the giant held up his great hands and appeared to support the sky , which , so far as Hercules could discern through the clouds , was resting upon his head !
This does really seem almost too much to believe .
Meanwhile , the bright cup continued to float onward , and finally touched the strand .
Just then a breeze wafted away the clouds from before the giant 's visage , and Hercules beheld it , with all its enormous features ; eyes each of them as big as yonder lake , a nose a mile Long , and a mouth of the same width .
It was a countenance terrible from its enormity of size , but disconsolate and weary , even as you may see the faces of many people , nowadays , who are compelled to sustain burdens above their strength .
What the sky was to the giant , such are the cares of earth to those who let themselves be weighed down by them .
And whenever men undertake what is beyond the just measure of their abilities , they encounter precisely such a doom as had befallen this poor giant .
Poor fellow !
He had evidently stood there a long while .
An ancient forest had been growing and decaying around his feet ; and oak-trees , of six or seven centuries old , had sprung from the acorn , and forced themselves between his toes .
The giant now looked down from the far height of his great eyes , and , perceiving Hercules , roared out , in a voice that resembled thunder , proceeding out of the cloud that had just flitted away from his face .
`` Who are you , down at my feet there ?
And whence do you come , in that little cup ? ''
`` I am Hercules ! ''
thundered back the hero , in a voice pretty nearly or quite as loud as the giant 's own .
`` And I am seeking for the garden of the Hesperides ! ''
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
roared the giant , in a fit of immense laughter .
`` That is a wise adventure , truly ! ''
`` And why not ? ''
cried Hercules , getting a little angry at the giant 's mirth .
`` Do you think I am afraid of the dragon with a hundred heads ! ''
Just at this time , while they were talking together , some black clouds gathered about the giant 's middle , and burst into a tremendous storm of thunder and lightning , causing such a pother that Hercules found it impossible to distinguish a word .
Only the giant 's immeasurable legs were to be seen , standing up into the obscurity of the tempest ; and , now and then , a momentary glimpse of his whole figure , mantled in a volume of mist .
He seemed to be speaking , most of the time ; but his big , deep , rough voice chimed in with the reverberations of the thunder-claps , and rolled away over the hills , like them .
Thus , by talking out of season , the foolish giant expended an incalculable quantity of breath , to no purpose ; for the thunder spoke quite as intelligibly as he .
At last , the storm swept over , as suddenly as it had come .
And there again was the clear sky , and the weary giant holding it up , and the pleasant sunshine beaming over his vast height , and illuminating it against the background of the sullen thunder-clouds .
So far above the shower had been his head , that not a hair of it was moistened by the rain-drops !
When the giant could see Hercules still standing on the sea-shore , he roared out to him anew .
`` I am Atlas , the mightiest giant in the world !
And I hold the sky upon my head ! ''
`` So I see , '' answered Hercules .
`` But , can you show me the way to the garden of the Hesperides ? ''
`` What do you want there ? ''
asked the giant .
`` I want three of the golden apples , '' shouted Hercules , `` for my cousin , the king . ''
`` There is nobody but myself , '' quoth the giant , `` that can go to the garden of the Hesperides , and gather the golden apples .
If it were not for this little business of holding up the sky , I would make half a dozen steps across the sea , and get them for you . ''
`` You are very kind , '' replied Hercules .
`` And can not you rest the sky upon a mountain ? ''
`` None of them are quite high enough , '' said Atlas , shaking his head .
`` But , if you were to take your stand on the summit of that nearest one , your head would be pretty nearly on a level with mine .
You seem to be a fellow of some strength .
What if you should take my burden on your shoulders , while I do your errand for you ? ''
Hercules , as you must be careful to remember , was a remarkably strong man ; and though it certainly requires a great deal of muscular power to uphold the sky , yet , if any mortal could be supposed capable of such an exploit , he was the one .
Nevertheless , it seemed so difficult an undertaking , that , for the first time in his life , he hesitated .
`` Is the sky very heavy ? ''
he inquired .
`` Why , not particularly so , at first , '' answered the giant , shrugging his shoulders .
`` But it gets to be a little burdensome , after a thousand years ! ''
`` And how long a time , '' asked the hero , `` will it take you to get the golden apples ? ''
`` O , that will be done in a few moments , '' cried Atlas .
`` I shall take ten or fifteen miles at a stride , and be at the garden and back again before your shoulders begin to ache . ''
`` Well , then , '' answered Hercules , `` I will climb the mountain behind you there , and relieve you of your burden . ''
The truth is , Hercules had a kind heart of his own , and considered that he should be doing the giant a favor , by allowing him this opportunity for a ramble .
And , besides , he thought that it would be still more for his own glory , if he could boast of upholding the sky , than merely to do so ordinary a thing as to conquer a dragon with a hundred heads .
Accordingly , without more words , the sky was shifted from the shoulders of Atlas , and placed upon those of Hercules .
When this was safely accomplished , the first thing that the giant did was to stretch himself ; and you may imagine what a prodigious spectacle be was then .
Next , he slowly lifted one of his feet out of the forest that had grown up around it ; then , the other .
Then , all at once , he began to caper , and leap , and dance , for joy at his freedom ; flinging himself nobody knows how high into the air , and floundering down again with a shock that made the earth tremble .
Then he laughed -- Ho !
ho !
ho !
-- with a thunderous roar that was echoed from the mountains , far and near , as if they and the giant had been so many rejoicing brothers .
When his joy had a little subsided , he stepped into the sea ; ten miles at the first stride , which brought him mid-leg deep ; and ten miles at the second , when the water came just above his knees ; and ten miles more at the third , by which he was immersed nearly to his waist .
This was the greatest depth of the sea .
Hercules watched the giant , as he still went onward ; for it was really a wonderful sight , this immense human form , more than thirty miles off , half hidden in the ocean , but with his upper half as tall , and misty , and blue , as a distant mountain .
At last the gigantic shape faded entirely out of view .
And now Hercules began to consider what he should do , in case Atlas should be drowned in the sea , or if he were to be stung to death by the dragon with the hundred beads , which guarded the golden apples of the Hesperides .
If any such misfortune were to happen , how could he ever get rid of the sky ?
And , by the by , its weight began already to be a little irksome to his head and shoulders .
`` I really pity the poor giant , '' thought Hercules .
`` If it wearies me so much in ten minutes , how must it have wearied him in a thousand years ! ''
O my sweet little people , you have no idea what a weight there was in that same blue sky , which looks so soft and aerial above our heads !
And there , too , was the bluster of the wind , and the chill and watery clouds , and the blazing sun , all taking their turns to make Hercules uncomfortable !
He began to be afraid that the giant would never come back .
He gazed wistfully at the world beneath him , and acknowledged to himself that it was a far happier kind of life to be a shepherd at the foot of a mountain , than to stand on its dizzy summit , and bear up the firmament with his might and main .
For , of course , as you will easily understand , Hercules had an immense responsibility on his mind , as well as a weight on his head and shoulders .
Why , if he did not stand perfectly still , and keep the sky immovable , the sun would perhaps be put ajar !
Or , after nightfall , a great many of the stars might be loosened from their places , and shower down , like fiery rain , upon the people 's heads !
And how ashamed would the hero be , if , owing to his unsteadiness beneath its weight , the sky should crack , and show a great fissure quite across it !
I know not how long it was before , to his unspeakable joy , he beheld the huge shape of the giant , like a cloud , on the far-off edge of the sea .
At his nearer approach , Atlas held up his hand , in which Hercules could perceive three magnificent golden apples , as big as pumpkins , all banging from one branch .
`` I am glad to see you again , '' shouted Hercules , when the giant was within hearing .
`` So you have got the golden apples ? ''
`` Certainly , certainly , '' answered Atlas ; `` and very fair apples they are .
I took the finest that grew on the tree , I assure you .
Ah !
it is a beautiful spot , that garden of the Hesperides .
Yes ; and the dragon with a hundred heads is a sight worth any man 's seeing .
After all , you had better have gone for the apples yourself . ''
`` No matter , '' replied Hercules .
`` You have had a pleasant ramble , and have done the business as well as I could .
I heartily thank you for your trouble .
And now , as I have a long way to go , and am rather in haste , -- and as the king , my cousin , is anxious to receive the golden apples , -- will you be kind enough to take the sky off my shoulders again ? ''
`` Why , as to that , '' said the giant , chucking the golden apples into the air , twenty miles high , or thereabouts , and catching them as they came down , -- `` as to that , my good friend , I consider you a little unreasonable .
Can not I carry the golden apples to the king , your cousin , much quicker than you could ?
As his majesty is in such a hurry to get them , I promise you to take my longest strides .
And , besides , I have no fancy for burdening myself with the sky , just now . ''
Here Hercules grew impatient , and gave a great shrug of his shoulders .
It being now twilight , you might have seen two or three stars tumble out of their places .
Everybody on earth looked upward in affright , thinking that the sky might be going to fall next .
`` O , that will never do ! ''
cried Giant Atlas , with a great roar of laughter .
`` I have not let fall so many stars within the last five centuries .
By the time you have stood there as long as I did , you will begin to learn patience ! ''
`` What ! ''
shouted Hercules , very wrathfully , `` do you intend to make me bear this burden forever ? ''
`` We will see about that , one of these days , '' answered the giant .
`` At all events , you ought not to complain , if you have to bear it the next hundred years , or perhaps the next thousand .
I bore it a good while longer , in spite of the back-ache .
Well , then , after a thousand years , if I happen to feel in the mood , we may possibly shift about again .
You are certainly a very strong man , and can never have a better opportunity to prove it .
Posterity will talk of you , I warrant it ! ''
`` Pish !
a fig for its talk ! ''
cried Hercules , with another hitch of his shoulders .
`` Just take the sky upon your head one instant , will you ?
I want to make a cushion of my lion 's skin , for the weight to rest upon .
It really chafes me , and will cause unnecessary inconvenience in so many centuries as I am to stand here . ''
`` That 's no more than fair , and I 'll do it ! ''
quoth the giant ; for he had no unkind feeling towards Hercules , and was merely acting with a too selfish consideration of his own ease .
`` For just five minutes , then , I 'll take back the sky .
Only for five minutes , recollect !
I have no idea of spending another thousand years as I spent the last .
Variety is the spice of life , say I. '' Ah , the thick-witted old rogue of a giant !
He threw down the golden apples , and received back the sky , from the head and shoulders of Hercules , upon his own , where it rightly belonged .
And Hercules picked up the three golden apples , that were as big or bigger than pumpkins , and straightway set out on his journey homeward , without paying the slightest heed to the thundering tones of the giant , who bellowed after him to come back .
Another forest sprang up around his feet , and grew ancient there ; and again might be seen oak-trees , of six or seven centuries old , that had waxed thus again betwixt his enormous toes .
And there stands the giant , to this day ; or , at any rate , there stands a mountain as tall as he , and which bears his name ; and when the thunder rumples about its summit , we may imagine it to be the voice of Giant Atlas , bellowing after Hercules !
TANGLEWOOD FIRESIDE .
AFTER THE STORY .
`` Cousin Eustace , '' demanded Sweet Fern , who had been sitting at the story-teller 's feet , with his mouth wide open , `` exactly how tall was this giant ? ''
`` O Sweet Fern , Sweet Fern ! ''
cried the student , `` do you think I was there , to measure him with a yardstick ?
Well , if you must know to a hair 's - breadth , I suppose he might be from three to fifteen miles straight upward , and that he might have seated himself on Taconic , and had Monument Mountain for a footstool . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
ejaculated the good little boy , with a contented sort of a grunt , `` that was a giant , sure enough !
And how long was his little finger ? ''
`` As long as from Tanglewood to the lake , '' said Eustace .
`` Sure enough , that was a giant ! ''
repeated Sweet Fern , in an ecstasy at the precision of these measurements .
`` And how broad , I wonder , were the shoulders of Hercules ? ''
`` That is what I have never been able to find out , '' answered the student .
`` But I think they must have been a great deal broader than mine , or than your father 's , or than almost any shoulders which one sees nowadays . ''
`` I wish , '' whispered Sweet Fern , with his mouth close to the student 's ear , `` that you would tell me how big were some of the oak-trees that grew between the giant 's toes . ''
`` They were bigger , '' said Eustace , `` than the great chestnut-tree which stands beyond Captain Smith 's house . ''
`` Eustace , '' remarked Mr. Pringle , after some deliberation , `` I find it impossible to express such an opinion of this story as will be likely to gratify , in the smallest degree , your pride of authorship .
Pray let me advise you never more to meddle with a classical myth .
Your imagination is altogether Gothic , and will inevitably Gothicize everything that you touch .
The effect is like bedaubing a marble statue with paint .
This giant , now !
How can you have ventured to thrust his huge , disproportioned mass among the seemly outlines of Grecian fable , the tendency of which is to reduce even the extravagant within limits , by its pervading elegance ? ''
`` I described the giant as he appeared to me , '' replied the student , rather piqued .
`` And , sir , if you would only bring your mind into such a relation with these fables as is necessary in order to remodel them , you would see at once that an old Greek had no more exclusive right to them than a modern Yankee has .
They are the common property of the world , and of all time .
The ancient poets remodelled them at pleasure , and held them plastic in their hands ; and why should they not be plastic in my hands , as well ? ''
Mr. Pringle could not forbear a smile .
`` And besides , '' continued Eustace , `` the moment you put any warmth of heart , any passion or affection , any human or divine morality , into a classic mould , you make it quite another thing from what it was before .
My own opinion is , that the Greeks , by taking possession of these legends -LRB- which were the immemorial birthright of mankind -RRB- , and putting them into shapes of indestructible beauty , indeed , but cold and heartless , have done all subsequent ages an incalculable injury . ''
`` Which you , doubtless , were born to remedy , '' said Mr. Pringle , laughing outright .
`` Well , well , go on ; but take my advice , and never put any of your travesties on paper .
And , as your next effort , what if you should try your hand on some one of the legends of Apollo ? ''
`` Ah , sir , you propose it as an impossibility , '' observed the student , after a moment 's meditation ; `` and , to be sure , at first thought , the idea of a Gothic Apollo strikes one rather ludicrously .
But I will turn over your suggestion in my mind , and do not quite despair of success . ''
During the above discussion , the children -LRB- who understood not a word of it -RRB- had grown very sleepy , and were now sent off to bed .
Their drowsy babble was heard , ascending the staircase , while a northwest-wind roared loudly among the tree-tops of Tanglewood , and played an anthem around the house .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Threefold_Destiny_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
I have sometimes produced a singular and not unpleasing effect , so far as my own mind was concerned , by imagining a train of incidents , in which the spirit and mechanism of the fairy legend should be combined with the characters and manners of familiar life .
In the little tale which follows , a subdued tinge of the wild and wonderful is thrown over a sketch of New England personages and scenery , yet , it is hoped , without entirely obliterating the sober hues of nature .
Rather than a story of events claiming to be real , it may be considered as an allegory , such as the writers of the last century would have expressed in the shape of an Eastern tale , but to which I have endeavored to give a more life-like warmth than could be infused into those fanciful productions .
In the twilight of a summer eve , a tall , dark figure , over which long and remote travel had thrown an outlandish aspect , was entering a village , not in `` Fairy Londe , '' but within our own familiar boundaries .
The staff , on which this traveller leaned , had been his companion from the spot where it grew , in the jungles of Hindostan ; the hat , that overshadowed his sombre brow , had shielded him from the suns of Spain ; but his cheek had been blackened by the red-hot wind of an Arabian desert , and had felt the frozen breath of an Arctic region .
Long sojourning amid wild and dangerous men , he still wore beneath his vest the ataghan which he had once struck into the throat of a Turkish robber .
In every foreign clime he had lost something of his New England characteristics ; and , perhaps , from every people he had unconsciously borrowed a new peculiarity ; so that when the world-wanderer again trod the street of his native village , it is no wonder that he passed unrecognized , though exciting the gaze and curiosity of all .
Yet , as his arm casually touched that of a young woman , who was wending her way to an evening lecture , she started , and almost uttered a cry .
`` Ralph Cranfield ! ''
was the name that she half articulated .
`` Can that be my old playmate , Faith Egerton ? ''
thought the traveller , looking round at her figure , but without pausing .
Ralph Cranfield , from his youth upward , had felt himself marked out for a high destiny .
He had imbibed the idea -- we say not whether it were revealed to him by witchcraft , or in a dream of prophecy , or that his brooding fancy had palmed its own dictates upon him as the oracles of a Sibyl -- but he had imbibed the idea , and held it firmest among his articles of faith , that three marvellous events of his life were to be confirmed to him by three signs .
The first of these three fatalities , and perhaps the one on which his youthful imagination had dwelt most fondly , was the discovery of the maid , who alone , of all the maids on earth , could make him happy by her love .
He was to roam around the world till he should meet a beautiful woman , wearing on her bosom a jewel in the shape of a heart ; whether of pearl , or ruby , or emerald , or carbuncle , or a changeful opal , or perhaps a priceless diamond , Ralph Cranfield little cared , so long as it were a heart of one peculiar shape .
On encountering this lovely stranger , he was bound to address her thus : `` Maiden , I have brought you a heavy heart .
May I rest its weight on you ? ''
And if she were his fated bride , -- if their kindred souls were destined to form a union here below , which all eternity should only bind more closely , -- she would reply , with her finger on the heart-shaped jewel , `` This token , which I have worn so long , is the assurance that you may ! ''
And , secondly , Ralph Cranfield had a firm belief that there was a mighty treasure hidden somewhere in the earth , of which the burial-place would be revealed to none but him .
When his feet should press upon the mysterious spot , there would be a hand before him , pointing downward , -- whether carved of marble , or hewn in gigantic dimensions on the side of a rocky precipice , or perchance a hand of flame in empty air , he could not tell ; but , at least , he would discern a hand , the forefinger pointing downward , and beneath it the Latin word EFFODE , -- Dig !
And digging thereabouts , the gold in coin or ingots , the precious stones , or of whatever else the treasure might consist , would be certain to reward his toil .
The third and last of the miraculous events in the life of this high-destined man was to be the attainment of extensive influence and sway over his fellow-creatures .
Whether he were to be a king , and founder of an hereditary throne , or the victorious leader of a people contending for their freedom , or the apostle of a purified and regenerated faith , was left for futurity to show .
As messengers of the sign , by which Ralph Cranfield might recognize the summons , three venerable men were to claim audience of him .
The chief among them , a dignified and majestic person , arrayed , it may be supposed , in the flowing garments of an ancient sage , would be the bearer of a wand , or prophet 's rod .
With this wand , or rod , or staff , the venerable sage would trace a certain figure in the air , and then proceed to make known his heaven-instructed message ; which , if obeyed , must lead to glorious results .
With this proud fate before him , in the flush of his imaginative youth , Ralph Cranfield had set forth to seek the maid , the treasure , and the venerable sage , with his gift of extended empire .
And had he found them ?
Alas !
it was not with the aspect of a triumphant man , who had achieved a nobler destiny than all his fellows , but rather with the gloom of one struggling against peculiar and continual adversity , that he now passed homeward to his mother 's cottage .
He had come back , but only for a time , to lay aside the pilgrim 's staff , trusting that his weary manhood would regain somewhat of the elasticity of youth , in the spot where his threefold fate had been foreshown him .
There had been few changes in the village ; for it was not one of those thriving places where a year 's prosperity makes more than the havoc of a century 's decay ; but like a gray hair in a young man 's head , an antiquated little town , full of old maids , and aged elms , and moss-grown dwellings .
Few seemed to be the changes here .
The drooping elms , indeed , had a more majestic spread ; the weather-blackened houses were adorned with a denser thatch of verdant moss ; and doubtless there were a few more gravestones in the burial-ground , inscribed with names that had once been familiar in the village street .
Yet , summing up all the mischief that ten years had wrought , it seemed scarcely more than if Ralph Cranfield had gone forth that very morning , and dreamed a daydream till the twilight , and then turned back again .
But his heart grew cold , because the village did not remember him as he remembered the village .
`` Here is the change ! ''
sighed he , striking his hand upon his breast .
`` Who is this man of thought and care , weary with world-wandering , and heavy with disappointed hopes ?
The youth returns not , who went forth so joyously ! ''
And now Ralph Cranfield was at his mother 's gate , in front of the small house where the old lady , with slender but sufficient means , had kept herself comfortable during her son 's long absence .
Admitting himself within the enclosure , he leaned against a great , old tree , trifling with his own impatience , as people often do in those intervals when years are summed into a moment .
He took a minute survey of the dwelling , -- its windows , brightened with the sky-gleans , its doorway , with the half of a mill-stone for a step , and the faintly traced path waving thence to the gate .
He made friends again with his childhood 's friend , the old tree against which he leaned ; and glancing his eye a-down its trunk , beheld something that excited a melancholy smile .
It was a half-obliterated inscription -- the Latin word EFFODE -- which he remembered to have carved in the bark of the tree , with a whole day 's toil , when he had first begun to muse about his exalted destiny .
It might be accounted a rather singular coincidence , that the bark , just above the inscription , had put forth an excrescence , shaped not unlike a hand , with the forefinger pointing obliquely at the word of fate .
Such , at least , was its appearance in the dusky light .
`` Now a credulous man , '' said Ralph Cranfield carelessly to himself , `` might suppose that the treasure which I have sought round the world lies buried , after all , at the very door of my mother 's dwelling .
That would be a jest indeed ! ''
More he thought not about the matter ; for now the door was opened , and an elderly woman appeared on the threshold , peering into the dusk to discover who it might be that had intruded on her premises , and was standing in the shadow of her tree .
It was Ralph Cranfield 's mother .
Pass we over their greeting , and leave the one to her joy and the other to his rest , -- if quiet rest he found .
But when morning broke , he arose with a troubled brow ; for his sleep and his wakefulness had alike been full of dreams .
All the fervor was rekindled with which he had burned of yore to unravel the threefold mystery of his fate .
The crowd of his early visions seemed to have awaited him beneath his mother 's roof , and thronged riotously around to welcome his return .
In the well-remembered chamber -- on the pillow where his infancy had slumbered -- he had passed a wilder night than ever in an Arab tent , or when he had reposed his head in the ghastly shades of a haunted forest .
A shadowy maid had stolen to his bedside , and laid her finger on the scintillating heart ; a hand of flame had glowed amid the darkness , pointing downward to a mystery within the earth ; a hoary sage had waved his prophetic wand , and beckoned the dreamer onward to a chair of state .
The same phantoms , though fainter in the daylight , still flitted about the cottage , and mingled among the crowd of familiar faces that were drawn thither by the news of Ralph Cranfield 's return , to bid him welcome for his mother 's sake .
There they found him , a tall , dark , stately man , of foreign aspect , courteous in demeanor and mild of speech , yet with an abstracted eye , which seemed often to snatch a glance at the invisible .
Meantime the Widow Cranfield went bustling about the house full of joy that she again had somebody to love , and be careful of , and for whom she might vex and tease herself with the petty troubles of daily life .
It was nearly noon , when she looked forth from the door , and descried three personages of note coming along the street , through the hot sunshine and the masses of elm-tree shade .
At length they reached her gate , and undid the latch .
`` See , Ralph ! ''
exclaimed she , with maternal pride , `` here is Squire Hawkwood and the two other selectmen coming on purpose to see you !
Now do tell them a good long story about what you have seen in foreign parts . ''
The foremost of the three visitors , Squire Hawkwood , was a very pompous , but excellent old gentleman , the head and prime mover in all the affairs of the village , and universally acknowledged to be one of the sagest men on earth .
He wore , according to a fashion , even then becoming antiquated , a three-cornered hat , and carried a silver-headed cane , the use of which seemed to be rather for flourishing in the air than for assisting the progress of his legs .
His two companions were elderly and respectable yeomen , who , retaining an ante-revolutionary reverence for rank and hereditary wealth , kept a little in the Squire 's rear .
As they approached along the pathway , Ralph Cranfield sat in an oaken elbow-chair , half unconsciously gazing at the three visitors , and enveloping their homely figures in the misty romance that pervaded his mental world .
`` Here , '' thought he , smiling at the conceit , -- `` here come three elderly personages , and the first of the three is a venerable sage with a staff .
What if this embassy should bring me the message of my fate ! ''
While Squire Hawkwood and his colleagues entered , Ralph rose from his seat , and advanced a few steps to receive them ; and his stately figure and dark countenance , as he bent courteously towards his guests , had a natural dignity , contrasting well with the bustling importance of the Squire .
The old gentleman , according to invariable custom , gave an elaborate preliminary flourish with his cane in the air , then removed his three-cornered hat in order to wipe his brow , and finally proceeded to make known his errand .
`` My colleagues and myself , '' began the Squire , `` are burdened with momentous duties , being jointly selectmen of this village .
Our minds , for the space of three days past , have been laboriously bent on the selection of a suitable person to fill a most important office , and take upon himself a charge and rule , which , wisely considered , may be ranked no lower than those of kings and potentates .
And whereas you , our native townsman , are of good natural intellect , and well cultivated by foreign travel , and that certain vagaries and fantasies of your youth are doubtless long ago corrected ; taking all these matters , I say , into due consideration , we are of opinion that Providence Lath sent you hither , at this juncture , for our very purpose . ''
During this harangue , Cranfield gazed fixedly at the speaker , as if he beheld something mysterious and unearthly in his pompous little figure , and as if the Squire had worn the flowing robes of an ancient sage , instead of a square-skirted coat , flapped waistcoat , velvet breeches , and silk stockings .
Nor was his wonder without sufficient cause ; for the flourish of the Squire 's staff , marvellous to relate , had described precisely the signal in the air which was to ratify the message of the prophetic Sage , whom Cranfield had sought around the world .
`` And what , '' inquired Ralph Cranfield , with a tremor in his voice , -- `` what may this office be , which is to equal me with kings and potentates ? ''
`` No less than instructor of our village school , '' answered Squire Hawkwood ; `` the office being now vacant by the loath of the venerable Master Whitaker , after a fifty years ' incumbency . ''
`` I will consider of your proposal , '' replied Ralph Cranfield , hurriedly , `` and will make known my decision within three days . ''
After a few more words , the village dignitary and his companions took their leave .
But to Cranfield 's fancy their images were still present , and became more and more invested with the dim awfulness of figures which had first appeared to him in a dream , and afterwards had shown themselves in his waking moments , assuming homely aspects among familiar things .
His mind dwelt upon the features of the Squire , till they grew confused with those of the visionary Sage , and one appeared but the shadow of the other .
The same visage , he now thought , had looked forth upon him from the Pyramid of Cheops ; the same form had beckoned to him among the colonnades of the Alhambra ; the same figure had mistily revealed itself through the ascending steam of the Great Geyser .
At every effort of his memory he recognized some trait of the dreamy Messenger of Destiny , in this pompous , bustling , self-important , little great man of the village .
Amid such musings Ralph Cranfield sat all day in the cottage , scarcely hearing and vaguely answering his mother 's thousand questions about his travels and adventures .
At sunset he roused himself to take a stroll , and , passing the aged elm-tree , his eye was again caught by the semblance of a hand , pointing downward at the half-obliterated inscription .
As Cranfield walked down the street of the village , the level sunbeams threw his shadow far before him ; and he fancied that , as his shadow walked among distant objects , so had there been a presentiment stalking in advance of him throughout his life .
And when he drew near each object , over which his tall shadow had preceded him , still it proved to be -- one of the familiar recollections of his infancy and youth .
Every crook in the pathway was remembered .
Even the more transitory characteristics of the scene were the same as in bygone days .
A company of cows were grazing on the grassy roadside , and refreshed him with their fragrant breath .
`` It is sweeter , '' thought he , `` than the perfume which was wafted to our shipp from the Spice Islands . ''
The round little figure of a child rolled from a doorway , and lay laughing almost beneath Cranfield 's feet .
The dark and stately man stooped down , and , lifting the infant , restored him to his mother 's arms .
`` The children , '' said he to himself , and sighed , and smiled , -- `` the children are to be my charge ! ''
And while a flow of natural feeling gushed like a wellspring in his heart , he came to a dwelling which he could nowise forbear to enter .
A sweet voice , which seemed to come from a deep and tender soul , was warbling a plaintive little air , within .
He bent his head , and passed through the lowly door .
As his foot sounded upon the threshold , a young woman advanced from the dusky interior of the house , at first hastily , and then with a more uncertain step , till they met face to face .
There was a singular contrast in their two figures ; he dark and picturesque , -- one who had battled with the world , -- whom all suns had shone upon , and whom all winds had blown on a varied course ; she neat , comely , and quiet , -- quiet even in her agitation , -- as if all her emotions had been subdued to the peaceful tenor of her life .
Yet their faces , all unlike as they were , had an expression that seemed not so alien , -- a glow of kindred feeling , flashing upward anew from half-extinguished embers .
`` You are welcome home ! ''
said Faith Egerton .
But Cranfield did not immediately answer ; for his eye had been caught by an ornament in the shape of a Heart , which Faith wore as a brooch upon her bosom .
The material was the ordinary white quartz ; and he recollected having himself shaped it out of one of those Indian arrowheads , which are so often found in the ancient haunts of the red men .
It was precisely on the pattern of that worn by the visionary Maid .
When Cranfield departed on his shadowy search he had bestowed this brooch , in a gold setting , as a parting gift to Faith Egerton .
`` So , Faith , you have kept the Heart ! ''
said he , at length .
`` Yes , '' said she , blushing deeply ; then more gayly , `` and what else have you brought me from beyond the sea ? ''
`` Faith ! ''
replied Ralph Cranfield , uttering the fated words by an uncontrollable impulse , `` I have brought you nothing but a heavy heart !
May I rest its weight on you ? ''
`` This token , which I have worn so long , '' said Faith , laying her tremulous finger on the Heart , `` is the assurance that you may ! ''
`` Faith !
Faith ! ''
cried Cranfield , clasping her in his arms , `` you have interpreted my wild and weary dream ! ''
Yes , the wild dreamer was awake at last .
To find the mysterious treasure , he was to till the earth around his mother 's dwelling , and reap its products !
Instead of warlike command , or regal or religious sway , he was to rule over the village children !
And now the visionary Maid had faded from his fancy , and in her place he saw the playmate of his childhood !
Would all , who cherish such wild wishes , but look around them , they would oftenest find their sphere of duty , of prosperity , and happiness within those precincts , and in that station where Providence itself has cast their lot .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Toll_Gatherer's_Day_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
Methinks , for a person whose instinct bids him rather to pore over the current of life , than to plunge into its tumultuous waves , no undesirable retreat were a toll-house beside some thronged thoroughfare of the land .
In youth , perhaps , it is good for the observer to run about the earth , to leave the track of his footsteps far and wide , -- to mingle himself with the action of numberless vicissitudes , -- and , finally , in some calm solitude , to feed a musing spirit on all that lie has seen and felt .
But there are natures too indolent , or too sensitive , to endure the dust , the sunshine , or the rain , the turmoil of moral and physical elements , to which all the wayfarers of the world expose themselves .
For such a mail , how pleasant a miracle , could life be made to roll its variegated length by the threshold of his own hermitage , and the great globe , as it were , perform its revolutions and shift its thousand scenes before his eyes without whirling him onward in its course .
If any mortal be favored with a lot analogous to this , it is the toll-gatherer .
So , at least , have I often fancied , while lounging on a bench at the door of a small square edifice , which stands between shore and shore in the midst of a long bridge .
Beneath the timbers ebbs and flows an arm of the sea ; while above , like the life-blood through a great artery , the travel of the north and east is continually throbbing .
Sitting on the aforesaid bench , I amuse myself with a conception , illustrated by numerous pencil-sketches in the air , of the toll-gatherer 's day .
In the morning -- dim , gray , dewy summer 's morn the distant roll of ponderous wheels begins to mingle with my old friend 's slumbers , creaking more and more harshly through the midst of his dream , and gradually replacing it with realities .
Hardly conscious of the change from sleep to wakefulness , he finds himself partly clad and throwing wide the toll-gates for the passage of a fragrant load of hay .
The timbers groan beneath the slow-revolving wheels ; one sturdy yeoman stalks beside the oxen , and , peering from the summit of the hay , by the glimmer of the half-extinguished lantern over the toll-house , is seen the drowsy visage of his comrade , who has enjoyed a nap some ten miles long .
The toll is paid , -- creak , creak , again go the wheels , and the huge haymow vanishes into the morning mist .
As yet , nature is but half awake , and familiar objects appear visionary .
But yonder , dashing from the shore with a rattling thunder of the wheels and a confused clatter of hoofs , comes the never-tiring mail , which has hurried onward at the same headlong , restless rate , all through the quiet night .
The bridge resounds in one continued peal as the coach rolls on without a pause , merely affording the toll-gatherer a glimpse at the sleepy passengers , who now bestir their torpid limbs , and snuff a cordial in the briny air .
The morn breathes upon them and blushes , and they forget how wearily the darkness toiled away .
And behold now the fervid day , in his bright chariot , glittering aslant over the waves , nor scorning to throw a tribute of his golden beams on the toll-gatherer 's little hermitage .
The old man looks eastward , and -LRB- for he is a moralizer -RRB- frames a simile of the stage coach and the sun .
While the world is rousing itself , we may glance slightly at the scene of our sketch .
It sits above the bosom of the broad flood , a spot not of earth , but in the midst of waters , which rush with a murmuring sound among the massive beams beneath .
Over the door is a weather-beaten board , inscribed with the rates of toll , in letters so nearly effaced that the gilding of the sunshine can hardly make them legible .
Beneath the window is a wooden bench , on which a long succession of weary wayfarers have reposed themselves .
Peeping within doors , we perceive the whitewashed walls bedecked with sundry lithographic prints and advertisements of various import , and the immense showbill of a wandering caravan .
And there sits our good old toll-gatherer , glorified by the early sunbeams .
He is a man , as his aspect may announce , of quiet soul , and thoughtful , shrewd , yet simple mind , who , of the wisdom which the passing world scatters along the wayside , has gathered a reasonable store .
Now the sun smiles upon the landscape , and earth smiles back again upon the sky .
Frequent , now , are the travellers .
The toll-gatherer 's practised ear can distinguish the weight of every vehicle , the number of its wheels , and how many horses beat the resounding timbers with their iron tramp .
Here , in a substantial family chaise , setting forth betimes to take advantage of the dewy road , come a gentleman and his wife , with their rosy-cheeked little girl sitting gladsomely between them .
The bottom of the chaise is heaped with multifarious bandboxes and carpet-bags , and beneath the axle swings a leathern trunk dusty with yesterday 's journey .
Next appears a four-wheeled carryall , peopled with a round half-dozen of pretty girls , all drawn by a single horse , and driven by a single gentleman .
Luckless wight , doomed , through a whole summer day , to be the butt of mirth and mischief among the frolicsome maidens !
Bolt upright in a sulky rides a thin , sour-visaged man , who , as he pays his toll , hands the toll-gatherer a printed card to stick upon the wall .
The vinegar-faced traveller proves to be a manufacturer of pickles .
Now paces slowly from timber to timber a horseman clad in black , with a meditative brow , as of one who , whithersoever his steed might bear him , would still journey through a mist of brooding thought .
He is a country preacher , going to labor at a protracted meeting .
The next object passing townward is a butcher 's cart , canopied with its arch of snow-white cotton .
Behind comes a `` sauceman , '' driving a wagon full of new potatoes , green ears of corn , beets , carrots , turnips , and summer-squashes ; and next , two wrinkled , withered , witch-looking old gossips , in an antediluvian chaise , drawn by a horse of former generations , and going to peddle out a lot of huckleberries .
See there , a man trundling a wheelbarrow-load of lobsters .
And now a milk-cart rattles briskly onward , covered with green canvas , and conveying the contributions of a whole herd of cows , in large tin canisters .
But let all these pay their toll and pass .
Here comes a spectacle that causes the old toll-gatherer to smile benignantly , as if the travellers brought sunshine with them and lavished its gladsome influence all along the road .
It is a harouche of the newest style , the varnished panels of which reflect the whole moving panorama of the landscape , and show a picture , likewise , of our friend , with his visage broadened , so that his meditative smile is transformed to grotesque merriment .
Within , sits a youth , fresh as the summer morn , and beside him a young lady in white , with white gloves upon her slender bands , and a white veil flowing down over her face .
But methinks her blushing cheek burns through the snowy veil .
Another white-robed virgin sits in front .
And who are these , on whom , and on all that appertains to them , the dust of earth seems never to have settled ?
Two lovers , whom the priest has blessed , this blessed morn , and sent them forth , with one of the bridemaids , on the matrimonial tour .
Take my blessing too , ye happy ones !
May the sky not frown upon you , nor clouds bedew you with their chill and sullen rain !
May the hot sun kindle no fever in your hearts !
May your whole life 's pilgrimage be as blissful as this first day 's journey , and its close be gladdened with even brighter anticipations than those which hallow your bridal night !
They pass ; and ere the reflection of their joy has faded from his face , another spectacle throws a melancholy shadow over the spirit of the observing man .
In a close carriage sits a fragile figure , muffled carefully , and shrinking even from the mild breath of summer .
She leans against a manly form , and his arm infolds her , as if to guard his treasure from some enemy .
Let but a few weeks pass , and when he shall strive to embrace that loved one , he will press only desolation to his heart !
And now has morning gathered up her dewy pearls , and fled away .
The sun rolls blazing through the sky , and can not find a cloud to cool his face with .
The horses toil sluggishly along the bridge , and heave their glistening sides in short quick pantings , when the reins are tightened at the toll-house .
Glisten , too , the faces of the travellers .
Their garments are thickly bestrewn with dust ; their whiskers and hair look hoary ; their throats are choked with the dusty atmosphere which they have left behind them .
No air is stirring on the road .
Nature dares draw no breath , lest she should inhale a stifling cloud of dust .
`` A hot , and dusty day ! ''
cry the poor pilgrims , as they wipe their begrimed foreheads , and woo the doubtful breeze which the river bears along with it .
`` Awful hot !
Dreadful dusty ! ''
answers the sympathetic toll-gatherer .
They start again , to pass through the fiery furnace , while he re-enters his cool hermitage , and besprinkles it with a pail of briny water from the stream beneath .
He thinks within himself , that the sun is not so fierce here as elsewhere , and that the gentle air does not forget him in these sultry days .
Yes , old friend ; and a quiet heart will make a dog-day temperate .
He hears a weary footstep , and perceives a traveller with pack and staff , who sits down upon the hospitable bench , and removes the hat from his wet brow .
The toll-gatherer administers a cup of cold water , and discovering his guest to be a man of homely sense , he engages him in profitable talk , uttering the maxims of a philosophy which he has found in his own soul , but knows not how it came there .
And as the wayfarer makes ready to resume his journey , he tells him a sovereign remedy for blistered feet .
Now comes the noontide hour , -- of all the hours nearest akin to midnight ; for each has its own calmness and repose .
Soon , however , the world begins to turn again upon its axis , and it seems the busiest epoch of the day ; when an accident impedes the march of sublunary things .
The draw being lifted to permit the passage of a schooner , laden with wood from the Eastern forests , she sticks immovably , right athwart the bridge !
Meanwhile , on both sides of the chasm , a throng of impatient travellers fret and fume .
Here are two sailors in a gig , with the top thrown back , both puffing cigars , and swearing all sorts of forecastle oaths ; there , in a smart chaise , a dashingly dressed gentleman and lady , he from a tailor 's shop-board ; and she from a milliner 's hack room , -- the aristocrats of a summer afternoon .
And what are the haughtiest of us , but the ephemeral aristocrats of a summer 's day ?
Here is a tin-peddler , whose glittering ware bedazzles all beholders , like a travelling meteor , or opposition sun ; and on the other side a seller of spruce-beer , which brisk liquor is confined in several dozen of stone bottles .
Here comes a party of ladies on horseback , in green riding-habits , and gentlemen attendant ; and there a flock of sheep for the market , pattering over the bridge with a multitudinous clatter of their little hoofs .
Here a Frenchman , with a hand-organ on his shoulder ; and there an itinerant Swiss jeweller .
On this side , heralded by a blast of clarions and bugles , appears a train of wagons , conveying all the wild beasts of a caravan ; and on that , a company of summer soldiers , marching from village to village on a festival campaign , attended by the `` brass band . ''
Now look at the scene , and it presents an emblem of the mysterious confusion , the apparently insolvable riddle , in which individuals , or the great world itself , seem often to be involved .
What miracle shall set all things right again ?
But see !
the schooner has thrust her bulky carcass through the chasm ; the draw descends ; horse and foot pass onward , and leave the bridge vacant from end to end .
`` And thus , '' muses the toll-gatherer , `` have I found it with all stoppages , even though the universe seemed to be at a stand . ''
The sage old man !
Far westward now , the reddening sun throws a broad sheet of splendor across the flood , and to the eyes of distant boatmen gleams brightly among the timbers of the bridge .
Strollers come from the town to quaff the freshening breeze .
One or two let down long lines , and haul up flapping flounders ?
or cunners , or small cod , or perhaps an eel .
Others , and fair girls among them , with the flush of the hot day still on their cheeks , bend over the railing and watch the heaps of sea-weed floating upward with the flowing tide .
The horses now tramp heavily along the bridge , and wistfully bethink them of their stables .
Rest , rest , thou weary world !
for tomorrow 's round of toil and pleasure will be as wearisome as to-day 's has been ; yet both shall bear thee onward a day 's march of eternity .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___The_Village_Uncle_(From_"Twice_Told_Tales").txt.out
Come !
another log upon the hearth .
True , our little parlor is comfortable , especially here , where the old man sits in his old arm-chair ; but on Thanksgiving night the blaze should dance high up the chimney , and send a shower of sparks into the outer darkness .
Toss on an armful of those dry oak chips , the last relics of the Mermaid 's knee-timbers , the bones of your namesake , Susan .
Higher yet , and clearer be the blaze , till our cottage windows glow the ruddiest in the village , and the light of our household mirth flash far across the bay to Nahant .
And now , come , Susan , come , my children , draw your chairs round me , all of you .
There is a dimness over your figures !
You sit quivering indistinctly with each motion of the blaze , which eddies about you like a flood , so that you all have the look of visions , or people that dwell only in the fire light , and will vanish from existence , as completely as your own shadows , when the flame shall sink among the embers .
Hark !
let me listen for the swell of the surf ; it should be audible a mile inland , on a night like this .
Yes ; there I catch the sound , but only an uncertain murmur , as if a good way down over the beach ; though , by the almanac , it is high tide at eight o'clock , and the billows must now be dashing within thirty yards of our door .
Ah !
the old man 's ears are failing him ; and so is his eyesight , and perhaps his mind ; else you would not all be so shadowy , in the blaze of his Thanksgiving fire .
How strangely the Past is peeping over the shoulders of the Present !
To judge by my recollections , it is but a few moments since I sat in another room ; yonder model of a vessel was not there , nor the old chest of drawers , nor Susan 's profile and mine , in that gilt frame ; nothing , in short , except this same fire , which glimmered on books , papers , and a picture , and half discovered my solitary figure in a looking-glass .
But it was paler than my rugged old self , and younger , too , by almost half a century .
Speak to me , Susan ; speak , my beloved ones ; for the scene is glimmering on my sight again , and as it brightens you fade away .
O , I should be loath to lose my treasure of past happiness , and become once more what I was then ; a hermit in the depths of my own mind ; sometimes yawning over drowsy volumes , and anon a scribbler of wearier trash than what I read ; a man who had wandered out of the real world and got into its shadow , where his troubles , joys , and vicissitudes were of such slight stuff , that he hardly knew whether he lived , or only dreamed of living .
Thank Heaven , I am an old man now , and have done with all such vanities !
Still this dimness of mine eyes !
Come nearer , Susan , and stand before the fullest blaze of the hearth .
Now I behold you illuminated from head to foot , in your clean cap and decent gown , with the dear lock of gray hair across your forehead , and a quiet smile about your mouth , while the eyes alone are concealed , by the red gleam of the fire upon your spectacles .
There , you made me tremble again !
When the flame quivered , my sweet Susan , you quivered with it , and grew indistinct , as if melting into the warm light , that my last glimpse of you might be as visionary as the first was , full many a year since .
Do you remember it ?
You stood on the little bridge , over the brook , that runs across King 's Beach into the sea .
It was twilight ; the waves rolling in , the wind sweeping by , the crimson clouds fading in the west , and the silver moon brightening above the hill ; and on the bridge were you , fluttering in the breeze like a sea-bird that might skim away at your pleasure .
You seemed a daughter of the viewless wind , a creature of the ocean foam and the crimson light , whose merry life was spent in dancing on the crests of the billows , that threw up their spray to support your footsteps .
As I drew nearer , I fancied you akin to the race of mermaids , and thought how pleasant it would be to dwell with you among the quiet coves , in the shadow of the cliffs , and to roam along secluded beaches of the purest sand , and when our northern shores grew bleak , to haunt the islands , green and lonely , far amid summer seas .
And yet it gladdened me , after all this nonsense , to find you nothing but a pretty young girl , sadly perplexed with the rude behavior of the wind about your petticoats .
Thus I did with Susan as with most other things in my earlier days , dipping her image into my mind and coloring it of a thousand fantastic hues , before I could see her as she really was .
Now , Susan , for a sober picture of our village !
It was a small collection of dwellings that seemed to have been cast up by the sea , with the rock-weed and marine plants that it vomits after a storm , or to have come ashore among the pipe-staves and other lumber , which had been washed from the deck of an Eastern schooner .
There was just space for the narrow and sandy street between the beach in front , and a precipitous hill that lifted its rocky forehead in the rear , among a waste of juniper-bushes and the wild growth of a broken pasture .
The village was picturesque , in the variety of its edifices , though all were rude .
Here stood a little old hovel , built , perhaps , of drift-wood , there a row of boat-houses , and beyond them a two-story dwelling , of dark and weather-beaten aspect , the whole intermixed with one or two snug cottages , painted white , a sufficiency of pigsties , and a shoemaker 's shop .
Two grocery-stores stand opposite each other , in the centre of the village .
These were the places of resort , at their idle hours , of a hardy throng of fishermen , in red baize shirts , oilcloth trousers , and boots of brown leather covering the whole leg ; true seven-league boots , but fitter to wade the ocean than walk the earth .
The wearers seemed amphibious , as if they did but creep out of salt water to sun themselves ; nor would it have been wonderful to see their lower limbs covered with clusters of little shellfish , such as cling to rocks and old ship-timber over which the tide ebbs and flows .
When their fleet of boats was weather-bound , the butchers raised their price , and the spit was busier than the frying-pan ; for this was a place of fish , and known as such , to all the country round about ; the very air was fishy , being perfumed with dead sculpins , hardheads , and dogfish , strewn plentifully on the beach .
You see , children , the village is but little changed , since your mother and I were young .
How like a dream it was , when I bent over a pool of water , one pleasant morning , and saw that the ocean had dashed its spray over me and made me a fisherman !
There were the tarpauling , the baize shirt , the oil-cloth trousers and seven-league boots , and there my own features , but so reddened with sunburn and sea-breezes , that methought I had another face , and on other shoulders too .
The sea-gulls and the loons , and I , had now all one trade ; we skimmed the crested waves and sought our prey beneath them , the man with as keen enjoyment as the birds .
Always , when the east grew purple , I launched my dory , my little flat-bottomed skiff , and rowed cross-handed to Point Ledge , the Middle Ledge , or , perhaps , beyond Egg Rock ; often , too , did I anchor off Dread Ledge , a spot of peril to ships unpiloted ; and sometimes spread an adventurous sail and tracked across the bay to South Shore , casting my lines in sight of Scituate .
Ere nightfall , I hauled my skiff high and dry on the beach , laden with red rock-cod , or the white-bellied ones of deep water ; haddock , bearing the black marks of St. Peter 's fingers near the gills ; the longbearded hake , whose liver holds oil enough for a midnight lamp ; and now and then a mighty halibut , with a back broad as my boat .
In the autumn , I trolled and caught those lovely fish , the mackerel .
When the wind was high , -- when the whale-boats , anchored off the Point , nodded their slender masts at each other , and the dories pitched and tossed in the surf , -- when Nahant Beach was thundering three miles off , and the spray broke a hundred feet in air , round the distant base of Egg Rock , -- when the brimful and boisterous sea threatened to tumble over the street of our village , -- then I made a holiday on shore .
Many such a day did I sit snugly in Mr. Bartlett 's store , attentive to the yarns of Uncle Parker ; uncle to the whole village , by right of seniority , but of Southern blood , with no kindred in New England .
His figure is before me now , enthroned upon a mackerel-barrel ; a lean old man , of great height , but bent with years , and twisted into an uncouth shape by seven broken limbs ; furrowed also , and weather-worn , as if every gale , for the better part of a century , had caught him somewhere on the sea .
He looked like a harbinger of tempest , a shipmate of the Flying Dutchman .
After innumerable voyages aboard men-of-war and merchant-men , fishing-schooners and chebacco-boats , the old salt had become master of a handcart , which he daily trundled about the vicinity , and sometimes blew his fish-horn through the streets of Salem .
One of Uncle Parker 's eyes had been blown out with gunpowder , and the other did but glimmer in its socket .
Turning it upward as he spoke , it was his delight to tell of cruises against the French , and battles with his own shipmates , when he and an antagonist used to be seated astride of a sailor 's chest , each fastened down by a spike-nail through his trousers , and there to fight it out .
Sometimes he expatiated on the delicious flavor of the liagden , a greasy and goose-like fowl , which the sailors catch with hook and line on the Grand Banks .
He dwelt with rapture on an interminable winter at the Isle of Sables , where he had gladdened himself , amid polar snows , with the rum and sugar saved from the wreck of a West India schooner .
And wrathfully did he shake his fist , as he related how a party of Cape Cod men had robbed him and his companions of their lawful spoil , and sailed away with every keg of old Jamaica , leaving him not a drop to drown his sorrow .
Villains they were , and of that wicked brotherhood who are said to tie lanterns to horses ' tails , to mislead the mariner along the dangerous shores of the Cape .
Even now I seem to see the group of fishermen , with that old salt in the midst .
One fellow sits on the counter , a second bestrides an oil-barrel , a third lolls at his length on a parcel of new cod-lines , and another has planted the tarry seat of his trousers on a heap of salt , which will shortly be sprinkled over a lot of fish .
They are a likely set of men .
Some have voyaged to the East Indies or the Pacific , and most of them have sailed in Marblehead schooners to Newfoundland ; a few have been no farther than the Middle Banks , and one or two have always fished along the shore ; but , as Uncle Parker used to say , they have all been christened in salt water , and know more than men ever learn in the bushes .
A curious figure , by way of contrast , is a fish-dealer from farup country , listening with eyes wide open to narratives that might startle Sindbad the sailor .
Be it well with you , my brethren !
Ye are all gone , some to your graves ashore , and others to the depths of ocean ; but my faith is strong that ye are happy ; for whenever I behold your forms , whether in dream or vision , each departed friend is puffing his long-nine , and a mug of the right blackstrap goes round from lip to lip .
But where was the mermaid in those delightful times ?
At a certain window near the centre of the village appeared a pretty display of gingerbread men and horses , picture-books and ballads , small fish-hooks , pins , needles , sugar-plums , and brass thimbles , articles on which the young fishermen used to expend their money from pure gallantry .
What a picture was Susan behind the counter !
A slender maiden , though the child of rugged parents , she had the slimmest of all waists , brown hair curling on her neck , and a complexion rather pale , except when the sea-breeze flushed it .
A few freckles became beauty-spots beneath her eyelids .
How was it , Susan , that you talked and acted so carelessly , yet always for the best , doing whatever was right in your own eyes , and never once doing wrong in mine , nor shocked a taste that had been morbidly sensitive till now ?
And whence had you that happiest gift , of brightening every topic with an unsought gayety , quiet but irresistible , so that even loomy spirits felt your sunshine , and did not shrink from it ?
Nature wrought the charm .
She made you a frank , simple , kind-hearted , sensible , and mirthful girl .
Obeying nature , you did free things without indelicacy , displayed a maiden 's thoughts to every eye , and proved yourself as innocent as naked Eve .
It was beautiful to observe , how her simple and happy nature mingled itself with mine .
She kindled a domestic fire within my heart , and took up her dwelling there , even in that chill and lonesome cavern hung round with glittering icicles of fancy .
She gave me warmth of feeling , while the influence of my mind made her contemplative .
I taught her to love the moonlight hour , when the expanse of the encircled bay was smooth as a great mirror and slept in a transparent shadow ; while beyond Nahant , the wind rippled the dim ocean into a dreamy brightness , which grew faint afar off , without becoming gloomier .
I held her hand and pointed to the long surf wave , as it rolled calmly on the beach , in an unbroken line of silver ; we were silent together , till its deep and peaceful murmur had swept by us .
When the Sabbath sun shone down into the recesses of the cliffs , I led the mermaid thither , and told her that those huge , gray , shattered rocks , and her native sea , that raged forever like a storm against them , and her own slender beauty , in so stern a scene , were all combined into a strain of poetry .
But on the Sabbath eve , when her mother had gone early to bed , and her gentle sister had smiled and left us , as we sat alone by the quiet hearth , with household things around , it was her turn to make me feel that here was a deeper poetry , and that this was the dearest hour of all .
Thus went on our wooing , till I had shot wild-fowl enough to feather our bridal bed , and the Daughter of the Sea was mine .
I built a cottage for Susan and myself , and made a gateway in the form of a Gothic arch , by setting up a whale 's jaw-bones .
We bought a heifer with her first calf , and had a little garden on the hillside , to supply us with potatoes and green sauce for our fish .
Our parlor small and neat , was ornamented with our two profiles in one gilt frame , and with shells and pretty pebbles on the mantel-piece , selected from the sea 's treasury of such things , on Nahant Beach .
On the desk , beneath the looking-glass , lay the Bible , which I had begun to read aloud at the Book of Genesis , and the singing-book that Susan used for her evening psalm .
Except the almanac , we had no other literature .
All that I heard of books , was when an Indian history , or tale of shipwreck , was sold by a peddler or wandering subscription-man , to some one in the village , and read through its owner 's nose to a slumberous auditory .
Like my brother fishermen , I grew into the belief that all human erudition was collected in our pedagogue , whose green spectacles and solemn phiz , as he passed to his little schoolhouse , amid a waste of sand , might have gained him a diploma from any college in New England .
In truth I dreaded him .
When our children were old enough to claim his care , you remember , Susan , how I frowned , though you were pleased , at this learned man 's encomiums on their proficiency .
I feared to trust them even with the alphabet ; it was the key to a fatal treasure .
But I loved to lead them by their little hands along the beach , and point to nature in the vast and the minute , the sky , the sea , the green earth , the pebbles , and the shells .
Then did I discourse of the mighty works and coextensive goodness of the Deity , with the simple wisdom of a man whose mind had profited by lonely days upon the deep , and his heart by the strong and pure affections of his evening home .
Sometimes my voice lost itself in a tremulous depth ; for I felt His eye upon me as I spoke .
Once , while my wife and all of us were gazing at ourselves , in the mirror left by the tide in a hollow of the sand , I pointed to the pictured heaven below , and bade her observe how religion was strewn everywhere in our path ; since even a casual pool of water recalled the idea of that home whither we were travelling , to rest forever with our children .
Suddenly , your image , Susan , and all the little faces made up of yours and mine , seemed to fade away and vanish around me , leaving a pale visage like my own of former days within the frame of a large looking-glass .
Strange illusion !
My life glided on , the past appearing to mingle with the present and absorb the future , till the whole lies before me at a glance .
My manhood has long been waning with a stanch decay ; my earlier contemporaries , after lives of unbroken health , are all at rest , without having known the weariness of later age ; and now , with a wrinkled forehead and thin white hair as badges of my dignity , I have become the patriarch , the Uncle of the village .
I love that name ; it widens the circle of my sympathies ; it joins all the youthful to my household , in the kindred of affection .
Like Uncle Parker , whose rheumatic bones were dashed against Egg Rock , full forty years ago , I am a spinner of long yarns .
Seated on the gunwale of a dory , or on the sunny side of a boat-house , where the warmth is grateful to my limbs , or by my own hearth , when a friend or two are there , I overflow with talk , and yet am never tedious .
With a broken voice I give utterance to much wisdom .
Such , Heaven be praised !
is the vigor of my faculties , that many a forgotten usage , and traditions ancient in my youth , and early adventures of myself or others , hitherto effaced by things more recent , acquire new distinctness in my memory .
I remember the happy days when the haddock were more numerous on all the fishing-grounds than sculpins in the surf ; when the deepwater cod swain close in shore , and the dogfish , with his poisonous horn , had not learned to take the hook .
I can number every equinoctial storm , in which the sea has overwhelmed the street , flooded the cellars of the village , and hissed upon our kitchen hearth .
I give the history of the great whale that was landed on Whale Beach , and whose jaws , being now my gateway , will last for ages after my coffin shall have passed beneath them .
Thence it is an easy digression to the halibut , scarcely smaller than the whale , which ran out six cod-lines , and hauled my dory to the mouth of Boston Harbor , before I could touch him with the gaff .
If melancholy accidents be the theme of conversation , I tell how a friend of mine was taken out of his boat by an enormous shark ; and the sad , true tale of a young man on the eve of marriage , who had been nine days missing , when his drowned body floated into the very pathway , on Marblehead Neck , that had often led him to the dwelling of his bride ; as if the dripping corpse would have come where the mourner was .
With such awful fidelity did that lover return to fulfil his vows !
Another favorite story is of a crazy maiden , who conversed with angels and had the gift of prophecy , and whom all the village loved and pitied , though she went from door to door accusing us of sin , exhorting to repentance , and foretelling our destruction by flood or earthquake .
If the young men boast their knowledge of the ledges and sunken rocks , I speak of pilots , who knew the wind by its scent and the wave by its taste , and could have steered blindfold to any port between Boston and Mount Desert , guided only by the rote of the shore ; the peculiar sound of the surf on each island , beach , and line of rocks , along the coast .
Thus do I talk , and all my auditors grow wise , while they deem it pastime .
I recollect no happier portion of my life , than this , my calm old age .
It is like the sunny and sheltered slope of a valley , where , late in the autumn , the grass is greener than in August , and intermixed with golden dandelions , that have not been seen till now , since the first warmth of the year .
But with me , the verdure and the flowers are not frostbitten in the midst of winter .
A playfulness has revisited my mind ; a sympathy with the young and gay ; an unpainful interest in the business of others ; a light and wandering curiosity ; arising , perhaps , from the sense that my toil on earth is ended , and the brief hour till bedtime may be spent in play .
Still , I have fancied that there is a depth of feeling and reflection , under this superficial levity , peculiar to one who has lived long , and is soon to die .
Show me anything that would make an infant smile , and you shall behold a gleam of mirth over the hoary ruin of my visage .
I can spend a pleasant hour in the sun , watching the sports of the village children , on the edge of the surf ; now they chase the retreating wave far down over the wet sand ; now it steals softly up to kiss their naked feet ; now it comes onward with threatening front , and roars after the laughing crew , as they scamper beyond its reach .
Why should not an old man be merry too , when the great sea is at play with those little children ?
I delight , also , to follow in the wake of a pleasure-party of young men and girls , strolling along the beach after an early supper at the Point .
Here , with hand kerchiefs at nose , they bend over a heap of eel-grass , entangled in which is a dead skate , so oddly accoutred with two legs and a long tail , that they mistake him for a drowned animal .
A few steps farther , the ladies scream , and the gentlemen make ready to protect them against a young shark of the dogfish kind , rolling with a life-like motion in the tide that has thrown him up .
Next , they are smit with wonder at the black shells of a wagon-load of live lobsters , packed in rock-weed for the country market .
And when they reach the fleet of dories , just hauled ashore after the day 's fishing , how do I laugh in my sleeve , and sometimes roar outright , at the simplicity of these young folks and the sly humor of the fishermen !
In winter , when our village is thrown into a bustle by the arrival of perhaps a score of country dealers , bargaining for frozen fish , to be transported hundreds of miles , and eaten fresh in Vermont or Canada , I am a pleased but idle spectator in the throng .
For I launch my boat no more .
When the shore was solitary , I have found a pleasure that seemed even to exalt my mind , in observing the sports or contentions of two gulls , as they wheeled and hovered about each other , with hoarse screams , one moment flapping on the foam of the wave , and then soaring aloft , till their white bosoms melted into the upper sunshine .
In the calm of the summer sunset , I drag my aged limbs , with a little ostentation of activity , because I am so old , up to the rocky brow of the hill .
There I see the white sails of many a vessel , outward bound or homeward from afar , and the black trail of a vapor behind the eastern steamboat ; there , too , is the sun , going down , but not in gloom , and there the illimitable ocean mingling with the sky , to remind me of eternity .
But sweetest of all is the hour of cheerful musing and pleasant talk , that comes between the dusk and the lighted candle , by my glowing fireside .
And never , even on the first Thanksgiving night , when Susan and I sat alone with our hopes , nor the second , when a stranger had been sent to gladden us , and be the visible image of our affection , did I feel such joy as now .
All that belong to me are here ; Death has taken none , nor Disease kept them away , nor Strife divided them from their parents or each other ; with neither poverty nor riches to disturb them , nor the misery of desires beyond their lot , they have kept New England 's festival round the patriarch 's board .
For I am a patriarch !
Here I sit among my descendants , in my old arm-chair and immemorial corner , while the firelight throws an appropriate glory round my venerable frame .
Susan !
My children !
Something whispers me , that this happiest hour must be the final one , and that nothing remains but to bless you all , and depart with a treasure of recollected joys to heaven .
Will you meet me there ?
Alas !
your figures grow indistinct , fading into pictures on the air , and now to fainter outlines , while the fire is glimmering on the walls of a familiar room , and shows the book that I flung down , and the sheet that I left half written , some fifty years ago .
I lift my eyes to the looking-glass , and perceive myself alone , unless those be the mermaid 's features , retiring into the depths of the mirror , with a tender and melancholy smile .
All !
one feels a chillness , not bodily , but about the heart , and , moreover , a foolish dread of looking behind him , after these pastimes .
I can imagine precisely how a magician would sit down in gloom and terror , after dismissing the shadows that had personated dead or distant people , and stripping his cavern of the unreal splendor which had changed it to a palace .
And now for a moral to my revery .
Shall it be , that , since fancy can create so bright a dream of happiness , it were better to dream on from youth to age , than to awake and strive doubtfully for something real !
O , the slight tissue of a dream can no more preserve us from the stern reality of misfortune , than a robe of cobweb could repel the wintry blast .
Be this the moral , then .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Nathaniel_Hawthorne___Twice_Told_Tales.txt.out
THE GRAY CHAMPION .
There was once a time when New England groaned under the actual pressure of heavier wrongs than those threatened ones which brought on the Revolution .
James II. , the bigoted successor of Charles the Voluptuous , had annulled the charters of all the colonies and sent a harsh and unprincipled soldier to take away our liberties and endanger our religion .
The administration of Sir Edmund Andros lacked scarcely a single characteristic of tyranny -- a governor and council holding office from the king and wholly independent of the country ; laws made and taxes levied without concurrence of the people , immediate or by their representatives ; the rights of private citizens violated and the titles of all landed property declared void ; the voice of complaint stifled by restrictions on the press ; and finally , disaffection overawed by the first band of mercenary troops that ever marched on our free soil .
For two years our ancestors were kept in sullen submission by that filial love which had invariably secured their allegiance to the mother-country , whether its head chanced to be a Parliament , Protector or popish monarch .
Till these evil times , however , such allegiance had been merely nominal , and the colonists had ruled themselves , enjoying far more freedom than is even yet the privilege of the native subjects of Great Britain .
At length a rumor reached our shores that the prince of Orange had ventured on an enterprise the success of which would be the triumph of civil and religious rights and the salvation of New England .
It was but a doubtful whisper ; it might be false or the attempt might fail , and in either case the man that stirred against King James would lose his head .
Still , the intelligence produced a marked effect .
The people smiled mysteriously in the streets and threw bold glances at their oppressors , while far and wide there was a subdued and silent agitation , as if the slightest signal would rouse the whole land from its sluggish despondency .
Aware of their danger , the rulers resolved to avert it by an imposing display of strength , and perhaps to confirm their despotism by yet harsher measures .
One afternoon in April , 1689 , Sir Edmund Andros and his favorite councillors , being warm with wine , assembled the red-coats of the governor 's guard and made their appearance in the streets of Boston .
The sun was near setting when the march commenced .
The roll of the drum at that unquiet crisis seemed to go through the streets less as the martial music of the soldiers than as a muster-call to the inhabitants themselves .
A multitude by various avenues assembled in King street , which was destined to be the scene , nearly a century afterward , of another encounter between the troops of Britain and a people struggling against her tyranny .
Though more than sixty years had elapsed since the Pilgrims came , this crowd of their descendants still showed the strong and sombre features of their character perhaps more strikingly in such a stern emergency than on happier occasions .
There was the sober garb , the general severity of mien , the gloomy but undismayed expression , the scriptural forms of speech and the confidence in Heaven 's blessing on a righteous cause which would have marked a band of the original Puritans when threatened by some peril of the wilderness .
Indeed , it was not yet time for the old spirit to be extinct , since there were men in the street that day who had worshipped there beneath the trees before a house was reared to the God for whom they had become exiles .
Old soldiers of the Parliament were here , too , smiling grimly at the thought that their aged arms might strike another blow against the house of Stuart .
Here , also , were the veterans of King Philip 's war , who had burned villages and slaughtered young and old with pious fierceness while the godly souls throughout the land were helping them with prayer .
Several ministers were scattered among the crowd , which , unlike all other mobs , regarded them with such reverence as if there were sanctity in their very garments .
These holy men exerted their influence to quiet the people , but not to disperse them .
Meantime , the purpose of the governor in disturbing the peace of the town at a period when the slightest commotion might throw the country into a ferment was almost the Universal subject of inquiry , and variously explained .
`` Satan will strike his master-stroke presently , '' cried some , `` because he knoweth that his time is short .
All our godly pastors are to be dragged to prison .
We shall see them at a Smithfield fire in King street . ''
Hereupon the people of each parish gathered closer round their minister , who looked calmly upward and assumed a more apostolic dignity , as well befitted a candidate for the highest honor of his profession -- a crown of martyrdom .
It was actually fancied at that period that New England might have a John Rogers of her own to take the place of that worthy in the Primer .
`` The pope of Rome has given orders for a new St. Bartholomew , '' cried others .
`` We are to be massacred , man and male-child . ''
Neither was this rumor wholly discredited ; although the wiser class believed the governor 's object somewhat less atrocious .
His predecessor under the old charter , Bradstreet , a venerable companion of the first settlers , was known to be in town .
There were grounds for conjecturing that Sir Edmund Andros intended at once to strike terror by a parade of military force and to confound the opposite faction by possessing himself of their chief .
`` Stand firm for the old charter-governor ! ''
shouted the crowd , seizing upon the idea -- `` the good old Governor Bradstreet ! ''
While this cry was at the loudest the people were surprised by the well-known figure of Governor Bradstreet himself , a patriarch of nearly ninety , who appeared on the elevated steps of a door and with characteristic mildness besought them to submit to the constituted authorities .
`` My children , '' concluded this venerable person , `` do nothing rashly .
Cry not aloud , but pray for the welfare of New England and expect patiently what the Lord will do in this matter . ''
The event was soon to be decided .
All this time the roll of the drum had been approaching through Cornhill , louder and deeper , till with reverberations from house to house and the regular tramp of martial footsteps it burst into the street .
A double rank of soldiers made their appearance , occupying the whole breadth of the passage , with shouldered matchlocks and matches burning , so as to present a row of fires in the dusk .
Their steady march was like the progress of a machine that would roll irresistibly over everything in its way .
Next , moving slowly , with a confused clatter of hoofs on the pavement , rode a party of mounted gentlemen , the central figure being Sir Edmund Andros , elderly , but erect and soldier-like .
Those around him were his favorite councillors and the bitterest foes of New England .
At his right hand rode Edward Randolph , our arch-enemy , that `` blasted wretch , '' as Cotton Mather calls him , who achieved the downfall of our ancient government and was followed with a sensible curse-through life and to his grave .
On the other side was Bullivant , scattering jests and mockery as he rode along .
Dudley came behind with a downcast look , dreading , as well he might , to meet the indignant gaze of the people , who beheld him , their only countryman by birth , among the oppressors of his native land .
The captain of a frigate in the harbor and two or three civil officers under the Crown were also there .
But the figure which most attracted the public eye and stirred up the deepest feeling was the Episcopal clergyman of King 's Chapel riding haughtily among the magistrates in his priestly vestments , the fitting representative of prelacy and persecution , the union of Church and State , and all those abominations which had driven the Puritans to the wilderness .
Another guard of soldiers , in double rank , brought up the rear .
The whole scene was a picture of the condition of New England , and its moral , the deformity of any government that does not grow out of the nature of things and the character of the people -- on one side the religious multitude with their sad visages and dark attire , and on the other the group of despotic rulers with the high churchman in the midst and here and there a crucifix at their bosoms , all magnificently clad , flushed with wine , proud of unjust authority and scoffing at the universal groan .
And the mercenary soldiers , waiting but the word to deluge the street with blood , showed the only means by which obedience could be secured .
`` O Lord of hosts , '' cried a voice among the crowd , `` provide a champion for thy people ! ''
This ejaculation was loudly uttered , and served as a herald 's cry to introduce a remarkable personage .
The crowd had rolled back , and were now huddled together nearly at the extremity of the street , while the soldiers had advanced no more than a third of its length .
The intervening space was empty -- a paved solitude between lofty edifices which threw almost a twilight shadow over it .
Suddenly there was seen the figure of an ancient man who seemed to have emerged from among the people and was walking by himself along the centre of the street to confront the armed band .
He wore the old Puritan dress -- a dark cloak and a steeple-crowned hat in the fashion of at least fifty years before , with a heavy sword upon his thigh , but a staff in his hand to assist the tremulous gait of age .
When at some distance from the multitude , the old man turned slowly round , displaying a face of antique majesty rendered doubly venerable by the hoary beard that descended on his breast .
He made a gesture at once of encouragement and warning , then turned again and resumed his way .
`` Who is this gray patriarch ? ''
asked the young men of their sires .
`` Who is this venerable brother ? ''
asked the old men among themselves .
But none could make reply .
The fathers of the people , those of fourscore years and upward , were disturbed , deeming it strange that they should forget one of such evident authority whom they must have known in their early days , the associate of Winthrop and all the old councillors , giving laws and making prayers and leading them against the savage .
The elderly men ought to have remembered him , too , with locks as gray in their youth as their own were now .
And the young !
How could he have passed so utterly from their memories -- that hoary sire , the relic of long-departed times , whose awful benediction had surely been bestowed on their uncovered heads in childhood ?
`` Whence did he come ?
What is his purpose ?
Who can this old man be ? ''
whispered the wondering crowd .
Meanwhile , the venerable stranger , staff in hand , was pursuing his solitary walk along the centre of the street .
As he drew near the advancing soldiers , and as the roll of their drum came full upon his ear , the old man raised himself to a loftier mien , while the decrepitude of age seemed to fall from his shoulders , leaving him in gray but unbroken dignity .
Now he marched onward with a warrior 's step , keeping time to the military music .
Thus the aged form advanced on one side and the whole parade of soldiers and magistrates on the other , till , when scarcely twenty yards remained between , the old man grasped his staff by the middle and held it before him like a leader 's truncheon .
`` Stand ! ''
cried he .
The eye , the face and attitude of command , the solemn yet warlike peal of that voice -- fit either to rule a host in the battle-field or be raised to God in prayer -- were irresistible .
At the old man 's word and outstretched arm the roll of the drum was hushed at once and the advancing line stood still .
A tremulous enthusiasm seized upon the multitude .
That stately form , combining the leader and the saint , so gray , so dimly seen , in such an ancient garb , could only belong to some old champion of the righteous cause whom the oppressor 's drum had summoned from his grave .
They raised a shout of awe and exultation , and looked for the deliverance of New England .
The governor and the gentlemen of his party , perceiving themselves brought to an unexpected stand , rode hastily forward , as if they would have pressed their snorting and affrighted horses right against the hoary apparition .
He , however , blenched not a step , but , glancing his severe eye round the group , which half encompassed him , at last bent it sternly on Sir Edmund Andros .
One would have thought that the dark old man was chief ruler there , and that the governor and council with soldiers at their back , representing the whole power and authority of the Crown , had no alternative but obedience .
`` What does this old fellow here ? ''
cried Edward Randolph , fiercely .
-- `` On , Sir Edmund !
Bid the soldiers forward , and give the dotard the same choice that you give all his countrymen -- to stand aside or be trampled on . ''
`` Nay , nay !
Let us show respect to the good grandsire , '' said Bullivant , laughing .
`` See you not he is some old round-headed dignitary who hath lain asleep these thirty years and knows nothing of the change of times ?
Doubtless he thinks to put us down with a proclamation in Old Noll 's name . ''
`` Are you mad , old man ? ''
demanded Sir Edmund Andros , in loud and harsh tones .
`` How dare you stay the march of King James 's governor ? ''
`` I have stayed the march of a king himself ere now , '' replied the gray figure , with stern composure .
`` I am here , Sir Governor , because the cry of an oppressed people hath disturbed me in my secret place , and , beseeching this favor earnestly of the Lord , it was vouchsafed me to appear once again on earth in the good old cause of his saints .
And what speak ye of James ?
There is no longer a popish tyrant on the throne of England , and by to-morrow noon his name shall be a by-word in this very street , where ye would make it a word of terror .
Back , thou that wast a governor , back !
With this night thy power is ended .
To-morrow , the prison !
Back , lest I foretell the scaffold ! ''
The people had been drawing nearer and nearer and drinking in the words of their champion , who spoke in accents long disused , like one unaccustomed to converse except with the dead of many years ago .
But his voice stirred their souls .
They confronted the soldiers , not wholly without arms and ready to convert the very stones of the street into deadly weapons .
Sir Edmund Andros looked at the old man ; then he cast his hard and cruel eye over the multitude and beheld them burning with that lurid wrath so difficult to kindle or to quench , and again he fixed his gaze on the aged form which stood obscurely in an open space where neither friend nor foe had thrust himself .
What were his thoughts he uttered no word which might discover , but , whether the oppressor were overawed by the Gray Champion 's look or perceived his peril in the threatening attitude of the people , it is certain that he gave back and ordered his soldiers to commence a slow and guarded retreat .
Before another sunset the governor and all that rode so proudly with him were prisoners , and long ere it was known that James had abdicated King William was proclaimed throughout New England .
But where was the Gray Champion ?
Some reported that when the troops had gone from King street and the people were thronging tumultuously in their rear , Bradstreet , the aged governor , was seen to embrace a form more aged than his own .
Others soberly affirmed that while they marvelled at the venerable grandeur of his aspect the old man had faded from their eyes , melting slowly into the hues of twilight , till where he stood there was an empty space .
But all agreed that the hoary shape was gone .
The men of that generation watched for his reappearance in sunshine and in twilight , but never saw him more , nor knew when his funeral passed nor where his gravestone was .
And who was the Gray Champion ?
Perhaps his name might be found in the records of that stern court of justice which passed a sentence too mighty for the age , but glorious in all after-times for its humbling lesson to the monarch and its high example to the subject .
I have heard that whenever the descendants of the Puritans are to show the spirit of their sires the old man appears again .
When eighty years had passed , he walked once more in King street .
Five years later , in the twilight of an April morning , he stood on the green beside the meeting-house at Lexington where now the obelisk of granite with a slab of slate inlaid commemorates the first-fallen of the Revolution .
And when our fathers were toiling at the breastwork on Bunker 's Hill , all through that night the old warrior walked his rounds .
Long , long may it be ere he comes again !
His hour is one of darkness and adversity and peril .
But should domestic tyranny oppress us or the invader 's step pollute our soil , still may the Gray Champion come !
for he is the type of New England 's hereditary spirit , and his shadowy march on the eve of danger must ever be the pledge that New England 's sons will vindicate their ancestry .
SUNDAY AT HOME .
Every Sabbath morning in the summer-time I thrust back the curtain to watch the sunrise stealing down a steeple which stands opposite my chamber window .
First the weathercock begins to flash ; then a fainter lustre gives the spire an airy aspect ; next it encroaches on the tower and causes the index of the dial to glisten like gold as it points to the gilded figure of the hour .
Now the loftiest window gleams , and now the lower .
The carved framework of the portal is marked strongly out .
At length the morning glory in its descent from heaven comes down the stone steps one by one , and there stands the steeple glowing with fresh radiance , while the shades of twilight still hide themselves among the nooks of the adjacent buildings .
Methinks though the same sun brightens it every fair morning , yet the steeple has a peculiar robe of brightness for the Sabbath .
By dwelling near a church a person soon contracts an attachment for the edifice .
We naturally personify it , and conceive its massy walls and its dim emptiness to be instinct with a calm and meditative and somewhat melancholy spirit .
But the steeple stands foremost in our thoughts , as well as locally .
It impresses us as a giant with a mind comprehensive and discriminating enough to care for the great and small concerns of all the town .
Hourly , while it speaks a moral to the few that think , it reminds thousands of busy individuals of their separate and most secret affairs .
It is the steeple , too , that flings abroad the hurried and irregular accents of general alarm ; neither have gladness and festivity found a better utterance than by its tongue ; and when the dead are slowly passing to their home , the steeple has a melancholy voice to bid them welcome .
Yet , in spite of this connection with human interests , what a moral loneliness on week-days broods round about its stately height !
It has no kindred with the houses above which it towers ; it looks down into the narrow thoroughfare -- the lonelier because the crowd are elbowing their passage at its base .
A glance at the body of the church deepens this impression .
Within , by the light of distant windows , amid refracted shadows we discern the vacant pews and empty galleries , the silent organ , the voiceless pulpit and the clock which tells to solitude how time is passing .
Time -- where man lives not -- what is it but eternity ?
And in the church , we might suppose , are garnered up throughout the week all thoughts and feelings that have reference to eternity , until the holy day comes round again to let them forth .
Might not , then , its more appropriate site be in the outskirts of the town , with space for old trees to wave around it and throw their solemn shadows over a quiet green ?
We will say more of this hereafter .
But on the Sabbath I watch the earliest sunshine and fancy that a holier brightness marks the day when there shall be no buzz of voices on the Exchange nor traffic in the shops , nor crowd nor business anywhere but at church .
Many have fancied so .
For my own part , whether I see it scattered down among tangled woods , or beaming broad across the fields , or hemmed in between brick buildings , or tracing out the figure of the casement on my chamber floor , still I recognize the Sabbath sunshine .
And ever let me recognize it !
Some illusions -- and this among them -- are the shadows of great truths .
Doubts may flit around me or seem to close their evil wings and settle down , but so long as I imagine that the earth is hallowed and the light of heaven retains its sanctity on the Sabbath -- while that blessed sunshine lives within me -- never can my soul have lost the instinct of its faith .
If it have gone astray , it will return again .
I love to spend such pleasant Sabbaths from morning till night behind the curtain of my open window .
Are they spent amiss ?
Every spot so near the church as to be visited by the circling shadow of the steeple should be deemed consecrated ground to-day .
With stronger truth be it said that a devout heart may consecrate a den of thieves , as an evil one may convert a temple to the same .
My heart , perhaps , has no such holy , nor , I would fain trust , such impious , potency .
It must suffice that , though my form be absent , my inner man goes constantly to church , while many whose bodily presence fills the accustomed seats have left their souls at home .
But I am there even before my friend the sexton .
At length he comes -- a man of kindly but sombre aspect , in dark gray clothes , and hair of the same mixture .
He comes and applies his key to the wide portal .
Now my thoughts may go in among the dusty pews or ascend the pulpit without sacrilege , but soon come forth again to enjoy the music of the bell .
How glad , yet solemn too !
All the steeples in town are talking together aloft in the sunny air and rejoicing among themselves while their spires point heavenward .
Meantime , here are the children assembling to the Sabbath-school , which is kept somewhere within the church .
Often , while looking at the arched portal , I have been gladdened by the sight of a score of these little girls and boys in pink , blue , yellow and crimson frocks bursting suddenly forth into the sunshine like a swarm of gay butterflies that had been shut up in the solemn gloom .
Or I might compare them to cherubs haunting that holy place .
About a quarter of an hour before the second ringing of the bell individuals of the congregation begin to appear .
The earliest is invariably an old woman in black whose bent frame and rounded shoulders are evidently laden with some heavy affliction which she is eager to rest upon the altar .
Would that the Sabbath came twice as often , for the sake of that sorrowful old soul !
There is an elderly man , also , who arrives in good season and leans against the corner of the tower , just within the line of its shadow , looking downward with a darksome brow .
I sometimes fancy that the old woman is the happier of the two .
After these , others drop in singly and by twos and threes , either disappearing through the doorway or taking their stand in its vicinity .
At last , and always with an unexpected sensation , the bell turns in the steeple overhead and throws out an irregular clangor , jarring the tower to its foundation .
As if there were magic in the sound , the sidewalks of the street , both up and down along , are immediately thronged with two long lines of people , all converging hitherward and streaming into the church .
Perhaps the far-off roar of a coach draws nearer -- a deeper thunder by its contrast with the surrounding stillness -- until it sets down the wealthy worshippers at the portal among their humblest brethren .
Beyond that entrance -- in theory , at least -- there are no distinctions of earthly rank ; nor , indeed , by the goodly apparel which is flaunting in the sun would there seem to be such on the hither side .
Those pretty girls !
Why will they disturb my pious meditations ?
Of all days in the week , they should strive to look least fascinating on the Sabbath , instead of heightening their mortal loveliness , as if to rival the blessed angels and keep our thoughts from heaven .
Were I the minister himself , I must needs look .
One girl is white muslin from the waist upward and black silk downward to her slippers ; a second blushes from top-knot to shoe-tie , one universal scarlet ; another shines of a pervading yellow , as if she had made a garment of the sunshine .
The greater part , however , have adopted a milder cheerfulness of hue .
Their veils , especially when the wind raises them , give a lightness to the general effect and make them appear like airy phantoms as they flit up the steps and vanish into the sombre doorway .
Nearly all -- though it is very strange that I should know it -- wear white stockings , white as snow , and neat slippers laced crosswise with black ribbon pretty high above the ankles .
A white stocking is infinitely more effective than a black one .
Here comes the clergyman , slow and solemn , in severe simplicity , needing no black silk gown to denote his office .
His aspect claims my reverence , but can not win my love .
Were I to picture Saint Peter keeping fast the gate of Heaven and frowning , more stern than pitiful , on the wretched applicants , that face should be my study .
By middle age , or sooner , the creed has generally wrought upon the heart or been attempered by it .
As the minister passes into the church the bell holds its iron tongue and all the low murmur of the congregation dies away .
The gray sexton looks up and down the street and then at my window-curtain , where through the small peephole I half fancy that he has caught my eye .
Now every loiterer has gone in and the street lies asleep in the quiet sun , while a feeling of loneliness comes over me , and brings also an uneasy sense of neglected privileges and duties .
Oh , I ought to have gone to church !
The bustle of the rising congregation reaches my ears .
They are standing up to pray .
Could I bring my heart into unison with those who are praying in yonder church and lift it heavenward with a fervor of supplication , but no distinct request , would not that be the safest kind of prayer ?
-- `` Lord , look down upon me in mercy ! ''
With that sentiment gushing from my soul , might I not leave all the rest to him ?
Hark !
the hymn !
This , at least , is a portion of the service which I can enjoy better than if I sat within the walls , where the full choir and the massive melody of the organ would fall with a weight upon me .
At this distance it thrills through my frame and plays upon my heart-strings with a pleasure both of the sense and spirit .
Heaven be praised !
I know nothing of music as a science , and the most elaborate harmonies , if they please me , please as simply as a nurse 's lullaby .
The strain has ceased , but prolongs itself in my mind with fanciful echoes till I start from my reverie and find that the sermon has commenced .
It is my misfortune seldom to fructify in a regular way by any but printed sermons .
The first strong idea which the preacher utters gives birth to a train of thought and leads me onward step by step quite out of hearing of the good man 's voice unless he be indeed a son of thunder .
At my open window , catching now and then a sentence of the `` parson 's saw , '' I am as well situated as at the foot of the pulpit stairs .
The broken and scattered fragments of this one discourse will be the texts of many sermons preached by those colleague pastors -- colleagues , but often disputants -- my Mind and Heart .
The former pretends to be a scholar and perplexes me with doctrinal points ; the latter takes me on the score of feeling ; and both , like several other preachers , spend their strength to very little purpose .
I , their sole auditor , can not always understand them .
Suppose that a few hours have passed , and behold me still behind my curtain just before the close of the afternoon service .
The hour-hand on the dial has passed beyond four o'clock .
The declining sun is hidden behind the steeple and throws its shadow straight across the street ; so that my chamber is darkened as with a cloud .
Around the church door all is solitude , and an impenetrable obscurity beyond the threshold .
A commotion is heard .
The seats are slammed down and the pew doors thrown back ; a multitude of feet are trampling along the unseen aisles , and the congregation bursts suddenly through the portal .
Foremost scampers a rabble of boys , behind whom moves a dense and dark phalanx of grown men , and lastly a crowd of females with young children and a few scattered husbands .
This instantaneous outbreak of life into loneliness is one of the pleasantest scenes of the day .
Some of the good people are rubbing their eyes , thereby intimating that they have been wrapped , as it were , in a sort of holy trance by the fervor of their devotion .
There is a young man , a third-rate coxcomb , whose first care is always to flourish a white handkerchief and brush the seat of a tight pair of black silk pantaloons which shine as if varnished .
They must have been made of the stuff called `` everlasting , '' or perhaps of the same piece as Christian 's garments in the Pilgrim 's Progress , for he put them on two summers ago and has not yet worn the gloss off .
I have taken a great liking to those black silk pantaloons .
But now , with nods and greetings among friends , each matron takes her husband 's arm and paces gravely homeward , while the girls also flutter away after arranging sunset walks with their favored bachelors .
The Sabbath eve is the eve of love .
At length the whole congregation is dispersed .
No ; here , with faces as glossy as black satin , come two sable ladies and a sable gentleman , and close in their rear the minister , who softens his severe visage and bestows a kind word on each .
Poor souls !
To them the most captivating picture of bliss in heaven is `` There we shall be white ! ''
All is solitude again .
But hark !
A broken warbling of voices , and now , attuning its grandeur to their sweetness , a stately peal of the organ .
Who are the choristers ?
Let me dream that the angels who came down from heaven this blessed morn to blend themselves with the worship of the truly good are playing and singing their farewell to the earth .
On the wings of that rich melody they were borne upward .
This , gentle reader , is merely a flight of poetry .
A few of the singing-men and singing-women had lingered behind their fellows and raised their voices fitfully and blew a careless note upon the organ .
Yet it lifted my soul higher than all their former strains .
They are gone -- the sons and daughters of Music -- and the gray sexton is just closing the portal .
For six days more there will be no face of man in the pews and aisles and galleries , nor a voice in the pulpit , nor music in the choir .
Was it worth while to rear this massive edifice to be a desert in the heart of the town and populous only for a few hours of each seventh day ?
Oh , but the church is a symbol of religion .
May its site , which was consecrated on the day when the first tree was felled , be kept holy for ever , a spot of solitude and peace amid the trouble and vanity of our week-day world !
There is a moral , and a religion too , even in the silent walls .
And may the steeple still point heavenward and be decked with the hallowed sunshine of the Sabbath morn !
THE WEDDING-KNELL .
There is a certain church , in the city of New York which I have always regarded with peculiar interest on account of a marriage there solemnized under very singular circumstances in my grandmother 's girlhood .
That venerable lady chanced to be a spectator of the scene , and ever after made it her favorite narrative .
Whether the edifice now standing on the same site be the identical one to which she referred I am not antiquarian enough to know , nor would it be worth while to correct myself , perhaps , of an agreeable error by reading the date of its erection on the tablet over the door .
It is a stately church surrounded by an enclosure of the loveliest green , within which appear urns , pillars , obelisks , and other forms of monumental marble , the tributes of private affection or more splendid memorials of historic dust .
With such a place , though the tumult of the city rolls beneath its tower , one would be willing to connect some legendary interest .
The marriage might be considered as the result of an early engagement , though there had been two intermediate weddings on the lady 's part and forty years of celibacy on that of the gentleman .
At sixty-five Mr. Ellenwood was a shy but not quite a secluded man ; selfish , like all men who brood over their own hearts , yet manifesting on rare occasions a vein of generous sentiment ; a scholar throughout life , though always an indolent one , because his studies had no definite object either of public advantage or personal ambition ; a gentleman , high-bred and fastidiously delicate , yet sometimes requiring a considerable relaxation in his behalf of the common rules of society .
In truth , there were so many anomalies in his character , and , though shrinking with diseased sensibility from public notice , it had been his fatality so often to become the topic of the day by some wild eccentricity of conduct , that people searched his lineage for a hereditary taint of insanity .
But there was no need of this .
His caprices had their origin in a mind that lacked the support of an engrossing purpose , and in feelings that preyed upon themselves for want of other food .
If he were mad , it was the consequence , and not the cause , of an aimless and abortive life .
The widow was as complete a contrast to her third bridegroom in everything but age as can well be conceived .
Compelled to relinquish her first engagement , she had been united to a man of twice her own years , to whom she became an exemplary wife , and by whose death she was left in possession of a splendid fortune .
A Southern gentleman considerably younger than herself succeeded to her hand and carried her to Charleston , where after many uncomfortable years she found herself again a widow .
It would have been singular if any uncommon delicacy of feeling had survived through such a life as Mrs. Dabney 's ; it could not but be crushed and killed by her early disappointment , the cold duty of her first marriage , the dislocation of the heart 's principles consequent on a second union , and the unkindness of her Southern husband , which had inevitably driven her to connect the idea of his death with that of her comfort .
To be brief , she was that wisest but unloveliest variety of woman , a philosopher , bearing troubles of the heart with equanimity , dispensing with all that should have been her happiness and making the best of what remained .
Sage in most matters , the widow was perhaps the more amiable for the one frailty that made her ridiculous .
Being childless , she could not remain beautiful by proxy in the person of a daughter ; she therefore refused to grow old and ugly on any consideration ; she struggled with Time , and held fast her roses in spite of him , till the venerable thief appeared to have relinquished the spoil as not worth the trouble of acquiring it .
The approaching marriage of this woman of the world with such an unworldly man as Mr. Ellenwood was announced soon after Mrs. Dabney 's return to her native city .
Superficial observers , and deeper ones , seemed to concur in supposing that the lady must have borne no inactive part in arranging the affair ; there were considerations of expediency which she would be far more likely to appreciate than Mr. Ellenwood , and there was just the specious phantom of sentiment and romance in this late union of two early lovers which sometimes makes a fool of a woman who has lost her true feelings among the accidents of life .
All the wonder was how the gentleman , with his lack of worldly wisdom and agonizing consciousness of ridicule , could have been induced to take a measure at once so prudent and so laughable .
But while people talked the wedding-day arrived .
The ceremony was to be solemnized according to the Episcopalian forms and in open church , with a degree of publicity that attracted many spectators , who occupied the front seats of the galleries and the pews near the altar and along the broad aisle .
It had been arranged , or possibly it was the custom of the day , that the parties should proceed separately to church .
By some accident the bridegroom was a little less punctual than the widow and her bridal attendants , with whose arrival , after this tedious but necessary preface , the action of our tale may be said to commence .
The clumsy wheels of several old-fashioned coaches were heard , and the gentlemen and ladies composing the bridal-party came through the church door with the sudden and gladsome effect of a burst of sunshine .
The whole group , except the principal figure , was made up of youth and gayety .
As they streamed up the broad aisle , while the pews and pillars seemed to brighten on either side , their steps were as buoyant as if they mistook the church for a ball-room and were ready to dance hand in hand to the altar .
So brilliant was the spectacle that few took notice of a singular phenomenon that had marked its entrance .
At the moment when the bride 's foot touched the threshold the bell swung heavily in the tower above her and sent forth its deepest knell .
The vibrations died away , and returned with prolonged solemnity as she entered the body of the church .
`` Good heavens !
What an omen ! ''
whispered a young lady to her lover .
`` On my honor , '' replied the gentleman , `` I believe the bell has the good taste to toll of its own accord .
What has she to do with weddings ?
If you , dearest Julia , were approaching the altar , the bell would ring out its merriest peal .
It has only a funeral-knell for her . ''
The bride and most of her company had been too much occupied with the bustle of entrance to hear the first boding stroke of the bell -- or , at least , to reflect on the singularity of such a welcome to the altar .
They therefore continued to advance with undiminished gayety .
The gorgeous dresses of the time -- the crimson velvet coats , the gold-laced hats , the hoop-petticoats , the silk , satin , brocade and embroidery , the buckles , canes and swords , all displayed to the best advantage on persons suited to such finery -- made the group appear more like a bright-colored picture than anything real .
But by what perversity of taste had the artist represented his principal figure as so wrinkled and decayed , while yet he had decked her out in the brightest splendor of attire , as if the loveliest maiden had suddenly withered into age and become a moral to the beautiful around her ?
On they went , however , and had glittered along about a third of the aisle , when another stroke of the bell seemed to fill the church with a visible gloom , dimming and obscuring the bright-pageant till it shone forth again as from a mist .
This time the party wavered , stopped and huddled closer together , while a slight scream was heard from some of the ladies and a confused whispering among the gentlemen .
Thus tossing to and fro , they might have been fancifully compared to a splendid bunch of flowers suddenly shaken by a puff of wind which threatened to scatter the leaves of an old brown , withered rose on the same stalk with two dewy buds , such being the emblem of the widow between her fair young bridemaids .
But her heroism was admirable .
She had started with an irrepressible shudder , as if the stroke of the bell had fallen directly on her heart ; then , recovering herself , while her attendants were yet in dismay , she took the lead and paced calmly up the aisle .
The bell continued to swing , strike and vibrate with the same doleful regularity as when a corpse is on its way to the tomb .
`` My young friends here have their nerves a little shaken , '' said the widow , with a smile , to the clergyman at the altar .
`` But so many weddings have been ushered in with the merriest peal of the bells , and yet turned out unhappily , that I shall hope for better fortune under such different auspices . ''
`` Madam , '' answered the rector , in great perplexity , `` this strange occurrence brings to my mind a marriage-sermon of the famous Bishop Taylor wherein he mingles so many thoughts of mortality and future woe that , to speak somewhat after his own rich style , he seems to hang the bridal-chamber in black and cut the wedding-garment out of a coffin-pall .
And it has been the custom of divers nations to infuse something of sadness into their marriage ceremonies , so to keep death in mind while contracting that engagement which is life 's chiefest business .
Thus we may draw a sad but profitable moral from this funeral-knell . ''
But , though the clergyman might have given his moral even a keener point , he did not fail to despatch an attendant to inquire into the mystery and stop those sounds so dismally appropriate to such a marriage .
A brief space elapsed , during which the silence was broken only by whispers and a few suppressed titterings among the wedding-party and the spectators , who after the first shock were disposed to draw an ill-natured merriment from the affair .
The young have less charity for aged follies than the old for those of youth .
The widow 's glance was observed to wander for an instant toward a window of the church , as if searching for the time-worn marble that she had dedicated to her first husband ; then her eyelids dropped over their faded orbs and her thoughts were drawn irresistibly to another grave .
Two buried men with a voice at her ear and a cry afar off were calling her to lie down beside them .
Perhaps , with momentary truth of feeling , she thought how much happier had been her fate if , after years of bliss , the bell were now tolling for her funeral and she were followed to the grave by the old affection of her earliest lover , long her husband .
But why had she returned to him when their cold hearts shrank from each other 's embrace ?
Still the death-bell tolled so mournfully that the sunshine seemed to fade in the air .
A whisper , communicated from those who stood nearest the windows , now spread through the church : a hearse with a train of several coaches was creeping along the street , conveying some dead man to the churchyard , while the bride awaited a living one at the altar .
Immediately after , the footsteps of the bridegroom and his friends were heard at the door .
The widow looked down the aisle and clenched the arm of one of her bridemaids in her bony hand with such unconscious violence that the fair girl trembled .
`` You frighten me , my dear madam , '' cried she .
`` For heaven 's sake , what is the matter ? ''
`` Nothing , my dear -- nothing , '' said the widow ; then , whispering close to her ear , `` There is a foolish fancy that I can not get rid of .
I am expecting my bridegroom to come into the church with my two first husbands for groomsmen . ''
`` Look !
look ! ''
screamed the bridemaid .
`` What is here ?
The funeral ! ''
As she spoke a dark procession paced into the church .
First came an old man and woman , like chief mourners at a funeral , attired from head to foot in the deepest black , all but their pale features and hoary hair , he leaning on a staff and supporting her decrepit form with his nerveless arm .
Behind appeared another and another pair , as aged , as black and mournful as the first .
As they drew near the widow recognized in every face some trait of former friends long forgotten , but now returning as if from their old graves to warn her to prepare a shroud , or , with purpose almost as unwelcome , to exhibit their wrinkles and infirmity and claim her as their companion by the tokens of her own decay .
Many a merry night had she danced with them in youth , and now in joyless age she felt that some withered partner should request her hand and all unite in a dance of death to the music of the funeral-bell .
While these aged mourners were passing up the aisle it was observed that from pew to pew the spectators shuddered with irrepressible awe as some object hitherto concealed by the intervening figures came full in sight .
Many turned away their faces ; others kept a fixed and rigid stare , and a young girl giggled hysterically and fainted with the laughter on her lips .
When the spectral procession approached the altar , each couple separated and slowly diverged , till in the centre appeared a form that had been worthily ushered in with all this gloomy pomp , the death-knell and the funeral .
It was the bridegroom in his shroud .
No garb but that of the grave could have befitted such a death-like aspect .
The eyes , indeed , had the wild gleam of a sepulchral lamp ; all else was fixed in the stern calmness which old men wear in the coffin .
The corpse stood motionless , but addressed the widow in accents that seemed to melt into the clang of the bell , which fell heavily on the air while he spoke .
`` Come , my bride ! ''
said those pale lips .
`` The hearse is ready ; the sexton stands waiting for us at the door of the tomb .
Let us be married , and then to our coffins ! ''
How shall the widow 's horror be represented ?
It gave her the ghastliness of a dead man 's bride .
Her youthful friends stood apart , shuddering at the mourners , the shrouded bridegroom and herself ; the whole scene expressed by the strongest imagery the vain struggle of the gilded vanities of this world when opposed to age , infirmity , sorrow and death .
The awestruck silence was first broken by the clergyman .
`` Mr. Ellenwood , '' said he , soothingly , yet with somewhat of authority , `` you are not well .
Your mind has been agitated by the unusual circumstances in which you are placed .
The ceremony must be deferred .
As an old friend , let me entreat you to return home . ''
`` Home -- yes ; but not without my bride , '' answered he , in the same hollow accents .
`` You deem this mockery -- perhaps madness .
Had I bedizened my aged and broken frame with scarlet and embroidery , had I forced my withered lips to smile at my dead heart , that might have been mockery or madness ; but now let young and old declare which of us has come hither without a wedding-garment -- the bridegroom or the bride . ''
He stepped forward at a ghostly pace and stood beside the widow , contrasting the awful simplicity of his shroud with the glare and glitter in which she had arrayed herself for this unhappy scene .
None that beheld them could deny the terrible strength of the moral which his disordered intellect had contrived to draw .
`` Cruel !
cruel ! ''
groaned the heartstricken bride .
`` Cruel ? ''
repeated he ; then , losing his deathlike composure in a wild bitterness , `` Heaven judge which of us has been cruel to the other !
In youth you deprived me of my happiness , my hopes , my aims ; you took away all the substance of my life and made it a dream without reality enough even to grieve at -- with only a pervading gloom , through which I walked wearily and cared not whither .
But after forty years , when I have built my tomb and would not give up the thought of resting there -- no , not for such a life as we once pictured -- you call me to the altar .
At your summons I am here .
But other husbands have enjoyed your youth , your beauty , your warmth of heart and all that could be termed your life .
What is there for me but your decay and death ?
And therefore I have bidden these funeral-friends , and bespoken the sexton 's deepest knell , and am come in my shroud to wed you as with a burial-service , that we may join our hands at the door of the sepulchre and enter it together . ''
It was not frenzy , it was not merely the drunkenness of strong emotion in a heart unused to it , that now wrought upon the bride .
The stern lesson of the day had done its work ; her worldliness was gone .
She seized the bridegroom 's hand .
`` Yes ! ''
cried she ; `` let us wed even at the door of the sepulchre .
My life is gone in vanity and emptiness , but at its close there is one true feeling .
It has made me what I was in youth : it makes me worthy of you .
Time is no more for both of us .
Let us wed for eternity . ''
With a long and deep regard the bridegroom looked into her eyes , while a tear was gathering in his own .
How strange that gush of human feeling from the frozen bosom of a corpse !
He wiped away the tear , even with his shroud .
`` Beloved of my youth , '' said he , `` I have been wild .
The despair of my whole lifetime had returned at once and maddened me .
Forgive and be forgiven .
Yes ; it is evening with us now , and we have realized none of our morning dreams of happiness .
But let us join our hands before the altar as lovers whom adverse circumstances have separated through life , yet who meet again as they are leaving it and find their earthly affection changed into something holy as religion .
And what is time to the married of eternity ? ''
Amid the tears of many and a swell of exalted sentiment in those who felt aright was solemnized the union of two immortal souls .
The train of withered mourners , the hoary bridegroom in his shroud , the pale features of the aged bride and the death-bell tolling through the whole till its deep voice overpowered the marriage-words , -- all marked the funeral of earthly hopes .
But as the ceremony proceeded , the organ , as if stirred by the sympathies of this impressive scene , poured forth an anthem , first mingling with the dismal knell , then rising to a loftier strain , till the soul looked down upon its woe .
And when the awful rite was finished and with cold hand in cold hand the married of eternity withdrew , the organ 's peal of solemn triumph drowned the wedding-knell .
THE MINISTER 'S BLACK VEIL .
A PARABLE .
-LSB- 1 -RSB- The sexton stood in the porch of Milford meeting-house pulling lustily at the bell-rope .
The old people of the village came stooping along the street .
Children with bright faces tripped merrily beside their parents or mimicked a graver gait in the conscious dignity of their Sunday clothes .
Spruce bachelors looked sidelong at the pretty maidens , and fancied that the Sabbath sunshine made them prettier than on week-days .
When the throng had mostly streamed into the porch , the sexton began to toll the bell , keeping his eye on the Reverend Mr. Hooper 's door .
The first glimpse of the clergyman 's figure was the signal for the bell to cease its summons .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : Another clergyman in New England , Mr. Joseph Moody , of York , Maine , who died about eighty years since , made himself remarkable by the same eccentricity that is here related of the Reverend Mr. Hooper .
In his case , however , the symbol had a different import .
In early life he had accidentally killed a beloved friend , and from that day till the hour of his own death he hid his face from men . -RSB-
`` But what has good Parson Hooper got upon his face ? ''
cried the sexton , in astonishment .
All within hearing immediately turned about and beheld the semblance of Mr. Hooper pacing slowly his meditative way toward the meeting-house .
With one accord they started , expressing more wonder than if some strange minister were coming to dust the cushions of Mr. Hooper 's pulpit .
`` Are you sure it is our parson ? ''
inquired Goodman Gray of the sexton .
`` Of a certainty it is good Mr. Hooper , '' replied the sexton .
`` He was to have exchanged pulpits with Parson Shute of Westbury , but Parson Shute sent to excuse himself yesterday , being to preach a funeral sermon . ''
The cause of so much amazement may appear sufficiently slight .
Mr. Hooper , a gentlemanly person of about thirty , though still a bachelor , was dressed with due clerical neatness , as if a careful wife had starched his band and brushed the weekly dust from his Sunday 's garb .
There was but one thing remarkable in his appearance .
Swathed about his forehead and hanging down over his face , so low as to be shaken by his breath , Mr. Hooper had on a black veil .
On a nearer view it seemed to consist of two folds of crape , which entirely concealed his features except the mouth and chin , but probably did not intercept his sight further than to give a darkened aspect to all living and inanimate things .
With this gloomy shade before him good Mr. Hooper walked onward at a slow and quiet pace , stooping somewhat and looking on the ground , as is customary with abstracted men , yet nodding kindly to those of his parishioners who still waited on the meeting-house steps .
But so wonder-struck were they that his greeting hardly met with a return .
`` I ca n't really feel as if good Mr. Hooper 's face was behind that piece of crape , '' said the sexton .
`` I do n't like it , '' muttered an old woman as she hobbled into the meeting-house .
`` He has changed himself into something awful only by hiding his face . ''
`` Our parson has gone mad ! ''
cried Goodman Gray , following him across the threshold .
A rumor of some unaccountable phenomenon had preceded Mr. Hooper into the meeting-house and set all the congregation astir .
Few could refrain from twisting their heads toward the door ; many stood upright and turned directly about ; while several little boys clambered upon the seats , and came down again with a terrible racket .
There was a general bustle , a rustling of the women 's gowns and shuffling of the men 's feet , greatly at variance with that hushed repose which should attend the entrance of the minister .
But Mr. Hooper appeared not to notice the perturbation of his people .
He entered with an almost noiseless step , bent his head mildly to the pews on each side and bowed as he passed his oldest parishioner , a white-haired great-grandsire , who occupied an arm-chair in the centre of the aisle .
It was strange to observe how slowly this venerable man became conscious of something singular in the appearance of his pastor .
He seemed not fully to partake of the prevailing wonder till Mr. Hooper had ascended the stairs and showed himself in the pulpit , face to face with his congregation except for the black veil .
That mysterious emblem was never once withdrawn .
It shook with his measured breath as he gave out the psalm , it threw its obscurity between him and the holy page as he read the Scriptures , and while he prayed the veil lay heavily on his uplifted countenance .
Did he seek to hide it from the dread Being whom he was addressing ?
Such was the effect of this simple piece of crape that more than one woman of delicate nerves was forced to leave the meeting-house .
Yet perhaps the pale-faced congregation was almost as fearful a sight to the minister as his black veil to them .
Mr. Hooper had the reputation of a good preacher , but not an energetic one : he strove to win his people heavenward by mild , persuasive influences rather than to drive them thither by the thunders of the word .
The sermon which he now delivered was marked by the same characteristics of style and manner as the general series of his pulpit oratory , but there was something either in the sentiment of the discourse itself or in the imagination of the auditors which made it greatly the most powerful effort that they had ever heard from their pastor 's lips .
It was tinged rather more darkly than usual with the gentle gloom of Mr. Hooper 's temperament .
The subject had reference to secret sin and those sad mysteries which we hide from our nearest and dearest , and would fain conceal from our own consciousness , even forgetting that the Omniscient can detect them .
A subtle power was breathed into his words .
Each member of the congregation , the most innocent girl and the man of hardened breast , felt as if the preacher had crept upon them behind his awful veil and discovered their hoarded iniquity of deed or thought .
Many spread their clasped hands on their bosoms .
There was nothing terrible in what Mr. Hooper said -- at least , no violence ; and yet with every tremor of his melancholy voice the hearers quaked .
An unsought pathos came hand in hand with awe .
So sensible were the audience of some unwonted attribute in their minister that they longed for a breath of wind to blow aside the veil , almost believing that a stranger 's visage would be discovered , though the form , gesture and voice were those of Mr. Hooper .
At the close of the services the people hurried out with indecorous confusion , eager to communicate their pent-up amazement , and conscious of lighter spirits the moment they lost sight of the black veil .
Some gathered in little circles , huddled closely together , with their mouths all whispering in the centre ; some went homeward alone , wrapped in silent meditation ; some talked loudly and profaned the Sabbath-day with ostentatious laughter .
A few shook their sagacious heads , intimating that they could penetrate the mystery , while one or two affirmed that there was no mystery at all , but only that Mr. Hooper 's eyes were so weakened by the midnight lamp as to require a shade .
After a brief interval forth came good Mr. Hooper also , in the rear of his flock .
Turning his veiled face from one group to another , he paid due reverence to the hoary heads , saluted the middle-aged with kind dignity as their friend and spiritual guide , greeted the young with mingled authority and love , and laid his hands on the little children 's heads to bless them .
Such was always his custom on the Sabbath-day .
Strange and bewildered looks repaid him for his courtesy .
None , as on former occasions , aspired to the honor of walking by their pastor 's side .
Old Squire Saunders -- doubtless by an accidental lapse of memory -- neglected to invite Mr. Hooper to his table , where the good clergyman had been wont to bless the food almost every Sunday since his settlement .
He returned , therefore , to the parsonage , and at the moment of closing the door was observed to look back upon the people , all of whom had their eyes fixed upon the minister .
A sad smile gleamed faintly from beneath the black veil and flickered about his mouth , glimmering as he disappeared .
`` How strange , '' said a lady , `` that a simple black veil , such as any woman might wear on her bonnet , should become such a terrible thing on Mr. Hooper 's face ! ''
`` Something must surely be amiss with Mr. Hooper 's intellects , '' observed her husband , the physician of the village .
`` But the strangest part of the affair is the effect of this vagary even on a sober-minded man like myself .
The black veil , though it covers only our pastor 's face , throws its influence over his whole person and makes him ghost-like from head to foot .
Do you not feel it so ? ''
`` Truly do I , '' replied the lady ; `` and I would not be alone with him for the world .
I wonder he is not afraid to be alone with himself . ''
`` Men sometimes are so , '' said her husband .
The afternoon service was attended with similar circumstances .
At its conclusion the bell tolled for the funeral of a young lady .
The relatives and friends were assembled in the house and the more distant acquaintances stood about the door , speaking of the good qualities of the deceased , when their talk was interrupted by the appearance of Mr. Hooper , still covered with his black veil .
It was now an appropriate emblem .
The clergyman stepped into the room where the corpse was laid , and bent over the coffin to take a last farewell of his deceased parishioner .
As he stooped the veil hung straight down from his forehead , so that , if her eye-lids had not been closed for ever , the dead maiden might have seen his face .
Could Mr. Hooper be fearful of her glance , that he so hastily caught back the black veil ?
A person who watched the interview between the dead and living scrupled not to affirm that at the instant when the clergyman 's features were disclosed the corpse had slightly shuddered , rustling the shroud and muslin cap , though the countenance retained the composure of death .
A superstitious old woman was the only witness of this prodigy .
From the coffin Mr. Hooper passed into the chamber of the mourners , and thence to the head of the staircase , to make the funeral prayer .
It was a tender and heart-dissolving prayer , full of sorrow , yet so imbued with celestial hopes that the music of a heavenly harp swept by the fingers of the dead seemed faintly to be heard among the saddest accents of the minister .
The people trembled , though they but darkly understood him , when he prayed that they and himself , and all of mortal race , might be ready , as he trusted this young maiden had been , for the dreadful hour that should snatch the veil from their faces .
The bearers went heavily forth and the mourners followed , saddening all the street , with the dead before them and Mr. Hooper in his black veil behind .
`` Why do you look back ? ''
said one in the procession to his partner .
`` I had a fancy , '' replied she , `` that the minister and the maiden 's spirit were walking hand in hand . ''
`` And so had I at the same moment , '' said the other .
That night the handsomest couple in Milford village were to be joined in wedlock .
Though reckoned a melancholy man , Mr. Hooper had a placid cheerfulness for such occasions which often excited a sympathetic smile where livelier merriment would have been thrown away .
There was no quality of his disposition which made him more beloved than this .
The company at the wedding awaited his arrival with impatience , trusting that the strange awe which had gathered over him throughout the day would now be dispelled .
But such was not the result .
When Mr. Hooper came , the first thing that their eyes rested on was the same horrible black veil which had added deeper gloom to the funeral and could portend nothing but evil to the wedding .
Such was its immediate effect on the guests that a cloud seemed to have rolled duskily from beneath the black crape and dimmed the light of the candles .
The bridal pair stood up before the minister , but the bride 's cold fingers quivered in the tremulous hand of the bridegroom , and her death-like paleness caused a whisper that the maiden who had been buried a few hours before was come from her grave to be married .
If ever another wedding were so dismal , it was that famous one where they tolled the wedding-knell .
After performing the ceremony Mr. Hooper raised a glass of wine to his lips , wishing happiness to the new-married couple in a strain of mild pleasantry that ought to have brightened the features of the guests like a cheerful gleam from the hearth .
At that instant , catching a glimpse of his figure in the looking-glass , the black veil involved his own spirit in the horror with which it overwhelmed all others .
His frame shuddered , his lips grew white , he spilt the untasted wine upon the carpet and rushed forth into the darkness , for the Earth too had on her black veil .
The next day the whole village of Milford talked of little else than Parson Hooper 's black veil .
That , and the mystery concealed behind it , supplied a topic for discussion between acquaintances meeting in the street and good women gossipping at their open windows .
It was the first item of news that the tavernkeeper told to his guests .
The children babbled of it on their way to school .
One imitative little imp covered his face with an old black handkerchief , thereby so affrighting his playmates that the panic seized himself and he wellnigh lost his wits by his own waggery .
It was remarkable that , of all the busybodies and impertinent people in the parish , not one ventured to put the plain question to Mr. Hooper wherefore he did this thing .
Hitherto , whenever there appeared the slightest call for such interference , he had never lacked advisers nor shown himself averse to be guided by their judgment .
If he erred at all , it was by so painful a degree of self-distrust that even the mildest censure would lead him to consider an indifferent action as a crime .
Yet , though so well acquainted with this amiable weakness , no individual among his parishioners chose to make the black veil a subject of friendly remonstrance .
There was a feeling of dread , neither plainly confessed nor carefully concealed , which caused each to shift the responsibility upon another , till at length it was found expedient to send a deputation of the church , in order to deal with Mr. Hooper about the mystery before it should grow into a scandal .
Never did an embassy so ill discharge its duties .
The minister received them with friendly courtesy , but became silent after they were seated , leaving to his visitors the whole burden of introducing their important business .
The topic , it might be supposed , was obvious enough .
There was the black veil swathed round Mr. Hooper 's forehead and concealing every feature above his placid mouth , on which , at times , they could perceive the glimmering of a melancholy smile .
But that piece of crape , to their imagination , seemed to hang down before his heart , the symbol of a fearful secret between him and them .
Were the veil but cast aside , they might speak freely of it , but not till then .
Thus they sat a considerable time , speechless , confused and shrinking uneasily from Mr. Hooper 's eye , which they felt to be fixed upon them with an invisible glance .
Finally , the deputies returned abashed to their constituents , pronouncing the matter too weighty to be handled except by a council of the churches , if , indeed , it might not require a General Synod .
But there was one person in the village unappalled by the awe with which the black veil had impressed all besides herself .
When the deputies returned without an explanation , or even venturing to demand one , she with the calm energy of her character determined to chase away the strange cloud that appeared to be settling round Mr. Hooper every moment more darkly than before .
As his plighted wife it should be her privilege to know what the black veil concealed .
At the minister 's first visit , therefore , she entered upon the subject with a direct simplicity which made the task easier both for him and her .
After he had seated himself she fixed her eyes steadfastly upon the veil , but could discern nothing of the dreadful gloom that had so overawed the multitude ; it was but a double fold of crape hanging down from his forehead to his mouth and slightly stirring with his breath .
`` No , '' said she , aloud , and smiling , `` there is nothing terrible in this piece of crape , except that it hides a face which I am always glad to look upon .
Come , good sir ; let the sun shine from behind the cloud .
First lay aside your black veil , then tell me why you put it on . ''
Mr. Hooper 's smile glimmered faintly .
`` There is an hour to come , '' said he , `` when all of us shall cast aside our veils .
Take it not amiss , beloved friend , if I wear this piece of crape till then . ''
`` Your words are a mystery too , '' returned the young lady .
`` Take away the veil from them , at least . ''
`` Elizabeth , I will , '' said he , `` so far as my vow may suffer me .
Know , then , this veil is a type and a symbol , and I am bound to wear it ever , both in light and darkness , in solitude and before the gaze of multitudes , and as with strangers , so with my familiar friends .
No mortal eye will see it withdrawn .
This dismal shade must separate me from the world ; even you , Elizabeth , can never come behind it . ''
`` What grievous affliction hath befallen you , '' she earnestly inquired , `` that you should thus darken your eyes for ever ? ''
`` If it be a sign of mourning , '' replied Mr. Hooper , `` I , perhaps , like most other mortals , have sorrows dark enough to be typified by a black veil . ''
`` But what if the world will not believe that it is the type of an innocent sorrow ? ''
urged Elizabeth .
`` Beloved and respected as you are , there may be whispers that you hide your face under the consciousness of secret sin .
For the sake of your holy office do away this scandal . ''
The color rose into her cheeks as she intimated the nature of the rumors that were already abroad in the village .
But Mr. Hooper 's mildness did not forsake him .
He even smiled again -- that same sad smile which always appeared like a faint glimmering of light proceeding from the obscurity beneath the veil .
`` If I hide my face for sorrow , there is cause enough , '' he merely replied ; `` and if I cover it for secret sin , what mortal might not do the same ? ''
And with this gentle but unconquerable obstinacy did he resist all her entreaties .
At length Elizabeth sat silent .
For a few moments she appeared lost in thought , considering , probably , what new methods might be tried to withdraw her lover from so dark a fantasy , which , if it had no other meaning , was perhaps a symptom of mental disease .
Though of a firmer character than his own , the tears rolled down her cheeks .
But in an instant , as it were , a new feeling took the place of sorrow : her eyes were fixed insensibly on the black veil , when like a sudden twilight in the air its terrors fell around her .
She arose and stood trembling before him .
`` And do you feel it , then , at last ? ''
said he , mournfully .
She made no reply , but covered her eyes with her hand and turned to leave the room .
He rushed forward and caught her arm .
`` Have patience with me , Elizabeth ! ''
cried he , passionately .
`` Do not desert me though this veil must be between us here on earth .
Be mine , and hereafter there shall be no veil over my face , no darkness between our souls .
It is but a mortal veil ; it is not for eternity .
Oh , you know not how lonely I am , and how frightened to be alone behind my black veil !
Do not leave me in this miserable obscurity for ever . ''
`` Lift the veil but once and look me in the face , '' said she .
`` Never !
It can not be ! ''
replied Mr. Hooper .
`` Then farewell ! ''
said Elizabeth .
She withdrew her arm from his grasp and slowly departed , pausing at the door to give one long , shuddering gaze that seemed almost to penetrate the mystery of the black veil .
But even amid his grief Mr. Hooper smiled to think that only a material emblem had separated him from happiness , though the horrors which it shadowed forth must be drawn darkly between the fondest of lovers .
From that time no attempts were made to remove Mr. Hooper 's black veil or by a direct appeal to discover the secret which it was supposed to hide .
By persons who claimed a superiority to popular prejudice it was reckoned merely an eccentric whim , such as often mingles with the sober actions of men otherwise rational and tinges them all with its own semblance of insanity .
But with the multitude good Mr. Hooper was irreparably a bugbear .
He could not walk the street with any peace of mind , so conscious was he that the gentle and timid would turn aside to avoid him , and that others would make it a point of hardihood to throw themselves in his way .
The impertinence of the latter class compelled him to give up his customary walk at sunset to the burial-ground ; for when he leaned pensively over the gate , there would always be faces behind the gravestones peeping at his black veil .
A fable went the rounds that the stare of the dead people drove him thence .
It grieved him to the very depth of his kind heart to observe how the children fled from his approach , breaking up their merriest sports while his melancholy figure was yet afar off .
Their instinctive dread caused him to feel more strongly than aught else that a preternatural horror was interwoven with the threads of the black crape .
In truth , his own antipathy to the veil was known to be so great that he never willingly passed before a mirror nor stooped to drink at a still fountain lest in its peaceful bosom he should be affrighted by himself .
This was what gave plausibility to the whispers that Mr. Hooper 's conscience tortured him for some great crime too horrible to be entirely concealed or otherwise than so obscurely intimated .
Thus from beneath the black veil there rolled a cloud into the sunshine , an ambiguity of sin or sorrow , which enveloped the poor minister , so that love or sympathy could never reach him .
It was said that ghost and fiend consorted with him there .
With self-shudderings and outward terrors he walked continually in its shadow , groping darkly within his own soul or gazing through a medium that saddened the whole world .
Even the lawless wind , it was believed , respected his dreadful secret and never blew aside the veil .
But still good Mr. Hooper sadly smiled at the pale visages of the worldly throng as he passed by .
Among all its bad influences , the black veil had the one desirable effect of making its wearer a very efficient clergyman .
By the aid of his mysterious emblem -- for there was no other apparent cause -- he became a man of awful power over souls that were in agony for sin .
His converts always regarded him with a dread peculiar to themselves , affirming , though but figuratively , that before he brought them to celestial light they had been with him behind the black veil .
Its gloom , indeed , enabled him to sympathize with all dark affections .
Dying sinners cried aloud for Mr. Hooper and would not yield their breath till he appeared , though ever , as he stooped to whisper consolation , they shuddered at the veiled face so near their own .
Such were the terrors of the black veil even when Death had bared his visage .
Strangers came long distances to attend service at his church with the mere idle purpose of gazing at his figure because it was forbidden them to behold his face .
But many were made to quake ere they departed .
Once , during Governor Belcher 's administration , Mr. Hooper was appointed to preach the election sermon .
Covered with his black veil , he stood before the chief magistrate , the council and the representatives , and wrought so deep an impression that the legislative measures of that year were characterized by all the gloom and piety of our earliest ancestral sway .
In this manner Mr. Hooper spent a long life , irreproachable in outward act , yet shrouded in dismal suspicions ; kind and loving , though unloved and dimly feared ; a man apart from men , shunned in their health and joy , but ever summoned to their aid in mortal anguish .
As years wore on , shedding their snows above his sable veil , he acquired a name throughout the New England churches , and they called him Father Hooper .
Nearly all his parishioners who were of mature age when he was settled had been borne away by many a funeral : he had one congregation in the church and a more crowded one in the churchyard ; and , having wrought so late into the evening and done his work so well , it was now good Father Hooper 's turn to rest .
Several persons were visible by the shaded candlelight in the death-chamber of the old clergyman .
Natural connections he had none .
But there was the decorously grave though unmoved physician , seeking only to mitigate the last pangs of the patient whom he could not save .
There were the deacons and other eminently pious members of his church .
There , also , was the Reverend Mr. Clark of Westbury , a young and zealous divine who had ridden in haste to pray by the bedside of the expiring minister .
There was the nurse -- no hired handmaiden of Death , but one whose calm affection had endured thus long in secrecy , in solitude , amid the chill of age , and would not perish even at the dying-hour .
Who but Elizabeth !
And there lay the hoary head of good Father Hooper upon the death-pillow with the black veil still swathed about his brow and reaching down over his face , so that each more difficult gasp of his faint breath caused it to stir .
All through life that piece of crape had hung between him and the world ; it had separated him from cheerful brotherhood and woman 's love and kept him in that saddest of all prisons his own heart ; and still it lay upon his face , as if to deepen the gloom of his darksome chamber and shade him from the sunshine of eternity .
For some time previous his mind had been confused , wavering doubtfully between the past and the present , and hovering forward , as it were , at intervals , into the indistinctness of the world to come .
There had been feverish turns which tossed him from side to side and wore away what little strength he had .
But in his most convulsive struggles and in the wildest vagaries of his intellect , when no other thought retained its sober influence , he still showed an awful solicitude lest the black veil should slip aside .
Even if his bewildered soul could have forgotten , there was a faithful woman at his pillow who with averted eyes would have covered that aged face which she had last beheld in the comeliness of manhood .
At length the death-stricken old man lay quietly in the torpor of mental and bodily exhaustion , with an imperceptible pulse and breath that grew fainter and fainter except when a long , deep and irregular inspiration seemed to prelude the flight of his spirit .
The minister of Westbury approached the bedside .
`` Venerable Father Hooper , '' said he , `` the moment of your release is at hand .
Are you ready for the lifting of the veil that shuts in time from eternity ? ''
Father Hooper at first replied merely by a feeble motion of his head ; then -- apprehensive , perhaps , that his meaning might be doubtful -- he exerted himself to speak .
`` Yea , '' said he , in faint accents ; `` my soul hath a patient weariness until that veil be lifted . ''
`` And is it fitting , '' resumed the Reverend Mr. Clark , `` that a man so given to prayer , of such a blameless example , holy in deed and thought , so far as mortal judgment may pronounce , -- is it fitting that a father in the Church should leave a shadow on his memory that may seem to blacken a life so pure ?
I pray you , my venerable brother , let not this thing be !
Suffer us to be gladdened by your triumphant aspect as you go to your reward .
Before the veil of eternity be lifted let me cast aside this black veil from your face ; '' and , thus speaking , the Reverend Mr. Clark bent forward to reveal the mystery of so many years .
But , exerting a sudden energy that made all the beholders stand aghast , Father Hooper snatched both his hands from beneath the bedclothes and pressed them strongly on the black veil , resolute to struggle if the minister of Westbury would contend with a dying man .
`` Never ! ''
cried the veiled clergyman .
`` On earth , never ! ''
`` Dark old man , '' exclaimed the affrighted minister , `` with what horrible crime upon your soul are you now passing to the judgment ? ''
Father Hooper 's breath heaved : it rattled in his throat ; but , with a mighty effort grasping forward with his hands , he caught hold of life and held it back till he should speak .
He even raised himself in bed , and there he sat shivering with the arms of Death around him , while the black veil hung down , awful at that last moment in the gathered terrors of a lifetime .
And yet the faint , sad smile so often there now seemed to glimmer from its obscurity and linger on Father Hooper 's lips .
`` Why do you tremble at me alone ? ''
cried he , turning his veiled face round the circle of pale spectators .
`` Tremble also at each other .
Have men avoided me and women shown no pity and children screamed and fled only for my black veil ?
What but the mystery which it obscurely typifies has made this piece of crape so awful ?
When the friend shows his inmost heart to his friend , the lover to his best-beloved ; when man does not vainly shrink from the eye of his Creator , loathsomely treasuring up the secret of his sin , -- then deem me a monster for the symbol beneath which I have lived and die .
I look around me , and , lo !
on every visage a black veil ! ''
While his auditors shrank from one another in mutual affright , Father Hooper fell back upon his pillow , a veiled corpse with a faint smile lingering on the lips .
Still veiled , they laid him in his coffin , and a veiled corpse they bore him to the grave .
The grass of many years has sprung up and withered on that grave , the burial-stone is moss-grown , and good Mr. Hooper 's face is dust ; but awful is still the thought that it mouldered beneath the black veil .
THE MAYPOLE OF MERRY MOUNT .
There is an admirable foundation for a philosophic romance in the curious history of the early settlement of Mount Wollaston , or Merry Mount .
In the slight sketch here attempted the facts recorded on the grave pages of our New England annalists have wrought themselves almost spontaneously into a sort of allegory .
The masques , mummeries and festive customs described in the text are in accordance with the manners of the age .
Authority on these points may be found in Strutt 's Book of English Sports and Pastimes .
Bright were the days at Merry Mount when the Maypole was the banner-staff of that gay colony .
They who reared it , should their banner be triumphant , were to pour sunshine over New England 's rugged hills and scatter flower-seeds throughout the soil .
Jollity and gloom were contending for an empire .
Midsummer eve had come , bringing deep verdure to the forest , and roses in her lap of a more vivid hue than the tender buds of spring .
But May , or her mirthful spirit , dwelt all the year round at Merry Mount , sporting with the summer months and revelling with autumn and basking in the glow of winter 's fireside .
Through a world of toil and care she flitted with a dream-like smile , and came hither to find a home among the lightsome hearts of Merry Mount .
Never had the Maypole been so gayly decked as at sunset on Midsummer eve .
This venerated emblem was a pine tree which had preserved the slender grace of youth , while it equalled the loftiest height of the old wood-monarchs .
From its top streamed a silken banner colored like the rainbow .
Down nearly to the ground the pole was dressed with birchen boughs , and others of the liveliest green , and some with silvery leaves fastened by ribbons that fluttered in fantastic knots of twenty different colors , but no sad ones .
Garden-flowers and blossoms of the wilderness laughed gladly forth amid the verdure , so fresh and dewy that they must have grown by magic on that happy pine tree .
Where this green and flowery splendor terminated the shaft of the Maypole was stained with the seven brilliant hues of the banner at its top .
On the lowest green bough hung an abundant wreath of roses -- some that had been gathered in the sunniest spots of the forest , and others , of still richer blush , which the colonists had reared from English seed .
O people of the Golden Age , the chief of your husbandry was to raise flowers !
But what was the wild throng that stood hand in hand about the Maypole ?
It could not be that the fauns and nymphs , when driven from their classic groves and homes of ancient fable , had sought refuge , as all the persecuted did , in the fresh woods of the West .
These were Gothic monsters , though perhaps of Grecian ancestry .
On the shoulders of a comely youth uprose the head and branching antlers of a stag ; a second , human in all other points , had the grim visage of a wolf ; a third , still with the trunk and limbs of a mortal man , showed the beard and horns of a venerable he-goat .
There was the likeness of a bear erect , brute in all but his hind legs , which were adorned with pink silk stockings .
And here , again , almost as wondrous , stood a real bear of the dark forest , lending each of his forepaws to the grasp of a human hand and as ready for the dance as any in that circle .
His inferior nature rose halfway to meet his companions as they stooped .
Other faces wore the similitude of man or woman , but distorted or extravagant , with red noses pendulous before their mouths , which seemed of awful depth and stretched from ear to ear in an eternal fit of laughter .
Here might be seen the salvage man -- well known in heraldry -- hairy as a baboon and girdled with green leaves .
By his side -- a nobler figure , but still a counterfeit -- appeared an Indian hunter with feathery crest and wampum-belt .
Many of this strange company wore foolscaps and had little bells appended to their garments , tinkling with a silvery sound responsive to the inaudible music of their gleesome spirits .
Some youths and maidens were of soberer garb , yet well maintained their places in the irregular throng by the expression of wild revelry upon their features .
Such were the colonists of Merry Mount as they stood in the broad smile of sunset round their venerated Maypole .
Had a wanderer bewildered in the melancholy forest heard their mirth and stolen a half-affrighted glance , he might have fancied them the crew of Comus , some already transformed to brutes , some midway between man and beast , and the others rioting in the flow of tipsy jollity that foreran the change ; but a band of Puritans who watched the scene , invisible themselves , compared the masques to those devils and ruined souls with whom their superstition peopled the black wilderness .
Within the ring of monsters appeared the two airiest forms that had ever trodden on any more solid footing than a purple-and-golden cloud .
One was a youth in glistening apparel with a scarf of the rainbow pattern crosswise on his breast .
His right hand held a gilded staff -- the ensign of high dignity among the revellers -- and his left grasped the slender fingers of a fair maiden not less gayly decorated than himself .
Bright roses glowed in contrast with the dark and glossy curls of each , and were scattered round their feet or had sprung up spontaneously there .
Behind this lightsome couple , so close to the Maypole that its boughs shaded his jovial face , stood the figure of an English priest , canonically dressed , yet decked with flowers , in heathen fashion , and wearing a chaplet of the native vine leaves .
By the riot of his rolling eye and the pagan decorations of his holy garb , he seemed the wildest monster there , and the very Comus of the crew .
`` Votaries of the Maypole , '' cried the flower-decked priest , `` merrily all day long have the woods echoed to your mirth .
But be this your merriest hour , my hearts !
Lo !
here stand the Lord and Lady of the May , whom I , a clerk of Oxford and high priest of Merry Mount , am presently to join in holy matrimony .
-- Up with your nimble spirits , ye morrice-dancers , green men and glee-maidens , bears and wolves and horned gentlemen !
Come !
a chorus now rich with the old mirth of Merry England and the wilder glee of this fresh forest , and then a dance , to show the youthful pair what life is made of and how airily they should go through it !
-- All ye that love the Maypole , lend your voices to the nuptial song of the Lord and Lady of the May ! ''
This wedlock was more serious than most affairs of Merry Mount , where jest and delusion , trick and fantasy , kept up a continual carnival .
The Lord and Lady of the May , though their titles must be laid down at sunset , were really and truly to be partners for the dance of life , beginning the measure that same bright eve .
The wreath of roses that hung from the lowest green bough of the Maypole had been twined for them , and would be thrown over both their heads in symbol of their flowery union .
When the priest had spoken , therefore , a riotous uproar burst from the rout of monstrous figures .
`` Begin you the stave , reverend sir , '' cried they all , `` and never did the woods ring to such a merry peal as we of the Maypole shall send up . ''
Immediately a prelude of pipe , cittern and viol , touched with practised minstrelsy , began to play from a neighboring thicket in such a mirthful cadence that the boughs of the Maypole quivered to the sound .
But the May-lord -- he of the gilded staff -- chancing to look into his lady 's eyes , was wonder-struck at the almost pensive glance that met his own .
`` Edith , sweet Lady of the May , '' whispered he , reproachfully , `` is yon wreath of roses a garland to hang above our graves that you look so sad ?
Oh , Edith , this is our golden time .
Tarnish it not by any pensive shadow of the mind , for it may be that nothing of futurity will be brighter than the mere remembrance of what is now passing . ''
`` That was the very thought that saddened me .
How came it in your mind too ? ''
said Edith , in a still lower tone than he ; for it was high treason to be sad at Merry Mount .
`` Therefore do I sigh amid this festive music .
And besides , dear Edgar , I struggle as with a dream , and fancy that these shapes of our jovial friends are visionary and their mirth unreal , and that we are no true lord and lady of the May .
What is the mystery in my heart ? ''
Just then , as if a spell had loosened them , down came a little shower of withering rose-leaves from the Maypole .
Alas for the young lovers !
No sooner had their hearts glowed with real passion than they were sensible of something vague and unsubstantial in their former pleasures , and felt a dreary presentiment of inevitable change .
From the moment that they truly loved they had subjected themselves to earth 's doom of care and sorrow and troubled joy , and had no more a home at Merry Mount .
That was Edith 's mystery .
Now leave we the priest to marry them , and the masquers to sport round the Maypole till the last sunbeam be withdrawn from its summit and the shadows of the forest mingle gloomily in the dance .
Meanwhile , we may discover who these gay people were .
Two hundred years ago , and more , the Old World and its inhabitants became mutually weary of each other .
Men voyaged by thousands to the West -- some to barter glass and such like jewels for the furs of the Indian hunter , some to conquer virgin empires , and one stern band to pray .
But none of these motives had much weight with the striving to communicate their mirth to the grave Indian , or masquerading in the skins of deer and wolves which they had hunted for that especial purpose .
Often the whole colony were playing at Blindman 's Buff , magistrates and all with their eyes bandaged , except a single scapegoat , whom the blinded sinners pursued by the tinkling of the bells at his garments .
Once , it is said , they were seen following a flower-decked corpse with merriment and festive music to his grave .
But did the dead man laugh ?
In their quietest times they sang ballads and told tales for the edification of their pious visitors , or perplexed them with juggling tricks , or grinned at them through horse-collars ; and when sport itself grew wearisome , they made game of their own stupidity and began a yawning-match .
At the very least of these enormities the men of iron shook their heads and frowned so darkly that the revellers looked up , imagining that a momentary cloud had overcast the sunshine which was to be perpetual there .
On the other hand , the Puritans affirmed that when a psalm was pealing from their place of worship the echo which the forest sent them back seemed often like the chorus of a jolly catch , closing with a roar of laughter .
Who but the fiend and his bond-slaves the crew of Merry Mount had thus disturbed them ?
In due time a feud arose , stern and bitter on one side , and as serious on the other as anything could be among such light spirits as had sworn allegiance to the Maypole .
The future complexion of New England was involved in this important quarrel .
Should the grisly saints establish their jurisdiction over the gay sinners , then would their spirits darken all the clime and make it a land of clouded visages , of hard toil , of sermon and psalm for ever ; but should the banner-staff of Merry Mount be fortunate , sunshine would break upon the hills , and flowers would beautify the forest and late posterity do homage to the Maypole .
After these authentic passages from history we return to the nuptials of the Lord and Lady of the May .
Alas !
we have delayed too long , and must darken our tale too suddenly .
As we glance again at the Maypole a solitary sunbeam is fading from the summit , and leaves only a faint golden tinge blended with the hues of the rainbow banner .
Even that dim light is now withdrawn , relinquishing the whole domain of Merry Mount to the evening gloom which has rushed so instantaneously from the black surrounding woods .
But some of these black shadows have rushed forth in human shape .
Yes , with the setting sun the last day of mirth had passed from Merry Mount .
The ring of gay masquers was disordered and broken ; the stag lowered his antlers in dismay ; the wolf grew weaker than a lamb ; the bells of the morrice-dancers tinkled with tremulous affright .
The Puritans had played a characteristic part in the Maypole mummeries .
Their darksome figures were intermixed with the wild shapes of their foes , and made the scene a picture of the moment when waking thoughts start up amid the scattered fantasies of a dream .
The leader of the hostile party stood in the centre of the circle , while the rout of monsters cowered around him like evil spirits in the presence of a dread magician .
No fantastic foolery could look him in the face .
So stern was the energy of his aspect that the whole man , visage , frame and soul , seemed wrought of iron gifted with life and thought , yet all of one substance with his headpiece and breastplate .
It was the Puritan of Puritans : it was Endicott himself .
`` Stand off , priest of Baal ! ''
said he , with a grim frown and laying no reverent hand upon the surplice .
`` I know thee , Blackstone !
-LSB- 1 -RSB- Thou art the man who couldst not abide the rule even of thine own corrupted Church , and hast come hither to preach iniquity and to give example of it in thy life .
But now shall it be seen that the Lord hath sanctified this wilderness for his peculiar people .
Woe unto them that would defile it !
And first for this flower-decked abomination , the altar of thy worship ! ''
-LSB- Footnote 1 : Did Governor Endicott speak less positively , we should suspect a mistake here .
The Rev. Mr. Blackstone , though an eccentric , is not known to have been an immoral man .
We rather doubt his identity with the priest of Merry Mount . -RSB-
And with his keen sword Endicott assaulted the hallowed Maypole .
Nor long did it resist his arm .
It groaned with a dismal sound , it showered leaves and rosebuds upon the remorseless enthusiast , and finally , with all its green boughs and ribbons and flowers , symbolic of departed pleasures , down fell the banner-staff of Merry Mount .
As it sank , tradition says , the evening sky grew darker and the woods threw forth a more sombre shadow .
`` There ! ''
cried Endicott , looking triumphantly on his work ; `` there lies the only Maypole in New England .
The thought is strong within me that by its fall is shadowed forth the fate of light and idle mirthmakers amongst us and our posterity .
Amen , saith John Endicott ! ''
`` Amen ! ''
echoed his followers .
But the votaries of the Maypole gave one groan for their idol .
At the sound the Puritan leader glanced at the crew of Comus , each a figure of broad mirth , yet at this moment strangely expressive of sorrow and dismay .
`` Valiant captain , '' quoth Peter Palfrey , the ancient of the band , `` what order shall be taken with the prisoners ? ''
`` I thought not to repent me of cutting down a Maypole , '' replied Endicott , `` yet now I could find in my heart to plant it again and give each of these bestial pagans one other dance round their idol .
It would have served rarely for a whipping-post . ''
`` But there are pine trees enow , '' suggested the lieutenant .
`` True , good ancient , '' said the leader .
`` Wherefore bind the heathen crew and bestow on them a small matter of stripes apiece as earnest of our future justice .
Set some of the rogues in the stocks to rest themselves so soon as Providence shall bring us to one of our own well-ordered settlements where such accommodations may be found .
Further penalties , such as branding and cropping of ears , shall be thought of hereafter . ''
`` How many stripes for the priest ? ''
inquired Ancient Palfrey .
`` None as yet , '' answered Endicott , bending his iron frown upon the culprit .
`` It must be for the Great and General Court to determine whether stripes and long imprisonment , and other grievous penalty , may atone for his transgressions .
Let him look to himself .
For such as violate our civil order it may be permitted us to show mercy , but woe to the wretch that troubleth our religion ! ''
`` And this dancing bear ? ''
resumed the officer .
`` Must he share the stripes of his fellows ? ''
`` Shoot him through the head ! ''
said the energetic Puritan .
`` I suspect witchcraft in the beast . ''
`` Here be a couple of shining ones , '' continued Peter Palfrey , pointing his weapon at the Lord and Lady of the May .
`` They seem to be of high station among these misdoers .
Methinks their dignity will not be fitted with less than a double share of stripes . ''
Endicott rested on his sword and closely surveyed the dress and aspect of the hapless pair .
There they stood , pale , downcast and apprehensive , yet there was an air of mutual support and of pure affection seeking aid and giving it that showed them to be man and wife with the sanction of a priest upon their love .
The youth in the peril of the moment , had dropped his gilded staff and thrown his arm about the Lady of the May , who leaned against his breast too lightly to burden him , but with weight enough to express that their destinies were linked together for good or evil .
They looked first at each other and then into the grim captain 's face .
There they stood in the first hour of wedlock , while the idle pleasures of which their companions were the emblems had given place to the sternest cares of life , personified by the dark Puritans .
But never had their youthful beauty seemed so pure and high as when its glow was chastened by adversity .
`` Youth , '' said Endicott , `` ye stand in an evil case -- thou and thy maiden-wife .
Make ready presently , for I am minded that ye shall both have a token to remember your wedding-day . ''
`` Stern man , '' cried the May-lord , `` how can I move thee ?
Were the means at hand , I would resist to the death ; being powerless , I entreat .
Do with me as thou wilt , but let Edith go untouched . ''
`` Not so , '' replied the immitigable zealot .
`` We are not wont to show an idle courtesy to that sex which requireth the stricter discipline .
-- What sayest thou , maid ?
Shall thy silken bridegroom suffer thy share of the penalty besides his own ? ''
`` Be it death , '' said Edith , `` and lay it all on me . ''
Truly , as Endicott had said , the poor lovers stood in a woeful case .
Their foes were triumphant , their friends captive and abased , their home desolate , the benighted wilderness around them , and a rigorous destiny in the shape of the Puritan leader their only guide .
Yet the deepening twilight could not altogether conceal that the iron man was softened .
He smiled at the fair spectacle of early love ; he almost sighed for the inevitable blight of early hopes .
`` The troubles of life have come hastily on this young couple , '' observed Endicott .
`` We will see how they comport themselves under their present trials ere we burden them with greater .
If among the spoil there be any garments of a more decent fashion , let them be put upon this May-lord and his Lady instead of their glistening vanities .
Look to it , some of you . ''
`` And shall not the youth 's hair be cut ? ''
asked Peter Palfrey , looking with abhorrence at the lovelock and long glossy curls of the young man .
`` Crop it forthwith , and that in the true pumpkin-shell fashion , '' answered the captain .
`` Then bring them along with us , but more gently than their fellows .
There be qualities in the youth which may make him valiant to fight and sober to toil and pious to pray , and in the maiden that may fit her to become a mother in our Israel , bringing up babes in better nurture than her own hath been .
-- Nor think ye , young ones , that they are the happiest , even in our lifetime of a moment , who misspend it in dancing round a Maypole . ''
And Endicott , the severest Puritan of all who laid the rock-foundation of New England , lifted the wreath of roses from the ruin of the Maypole and threw it with his own gauntleted hand over the heads of the Lord and Lady of the May .
It was a deed of prophecy .
As the moral gloom of the world overpowers all systematic gayety , even so was their home of wild mirth made desolate amid the sad forest .
They returned to it no more .
But as their flowery garland was wreathed of the brightest roses that had grown there , so in the tie that united them were intertwined all the purest and best of their early joys .
They went heavenward supporting each other along the difficult path which it was their lot to tread , and never wasted one regretful thought on the vanities of Merry Mount .
THE GENTLE BOY .
In the course of the year 1656 several of the people called Quakers -- led , as they professed , by the inward movement of the spirit -- made their appearance in New England .
Their reputation as holders of mystic and pernicious principles having spread before them , the Puritans early endeavored to banish and to prevent the further intrusion of the rising sect .
But the measures by which it was intended to purge the land of heresy , though more than sufficiently vigorous , were entirely unsuccessful .
The Quakers , esteeming persecution as a divine call to the post of danger , laid claim to a holy courage unknown to the Puritans themselves , who had shunned the cross by providing for the peaceable exercise of their religion in a distant wilderness .
Though it was the singular fact that every nation of the earth rejected the wandering enthusiasts who practised peace toward all men , the place of greatest uneasiness and peril , and therefore in their eyes the most eligible , was the province of Massachusetts Bay .
The fines , imprisonments and stripes liberally distributed by our pious forefathers , the popular antipathy , so strong that it endured nearly a hundred years after actual persecution had ceased , were attractions as powerful for the Quakers as peace , honor and reward would have been for the worldly-minded .
Every European vessel brought new cargoes of the sect , eager to testify against the oppression which they hoped to share ; and when shipmasters were restrained by heavy fines from affording them passage , they made long and circuitous journeys through the Indian country , and appeared in the province as if conveyed by a supernatural power .
Their enthusiasm , heightened almost to madness by the treatment which they received , produced actions contrary to the rules of decency as well as of rational religion , and presented a singular contrast to the calm and staid deportment of their sectarian successors of the present day .
The command of the Spirit , inaudible except to the soul and not to be controverted on grounds of human wisdom , was made a plea for most indecorous exhibitions which , abstractedly considered , well deserved the moderate chastisement of the rod .
These extravagances , and the persecution which was at once their cause and consequence , continued to increase , till in the year 1659 the government of Massachusetts Bay indulged two members of the Quaker sect with the crown of martyrdom .
An indelible stain of blood is upon the hands of all who consented to this act , but a large share of the awful responsibility must rest upon the person then at the head of the government .
He was a man of narrow mind and imperfect education , and his uncompromising bigotry was made hot and mischievous by violent and hasty passions ; he exerted his influence indecorously and unjustifiably to compass the death of the enthusiasts , and his whole conduct in respect to them was marked by brutal cruelty .
The Quakers , whose revengeful feelings were not less deep because they were inactive , remembered this man and his associates in after-times .
The historian of the sect affirms that by the wrath of Heaven a blight fell upon the land in the vicinity of the `` bloody town '' of Boston , so that no wheat would grow there ; and he takes his stand , as it were , among the graves of the ancient persecutors , and triumphantly recounts the judgments that overtook them in old age or at the parting-hour .
He tells us that they died suddenly and violently and in madness , but nothing can exceed the bitter mockery with which he records the loathsome disease and `` death by rottenness '' of the fierce and cruel governor .
* * * * * On the evening of the autumn day that had witnessed the martyrdom of two men of the Quaker persuasion , a Puritan settler was returning from the metropolis to the neighboring country-town in which he resided .
The air was cool , the sky clear , and the lingering twilight was made brighter by the rays of a young moon which had now nearly reached the verge of the horizon .
The traveller , a man of middle age , wrapped in a gray frieze cloak , quickened his pace when he had reached the outskirts of the town , for a gloomy extent of nearly four miles lay between him and his home .
The low straw-thatched houses were scattered at considerable intervals along the road , and , the country having been settled but about thirty years , the tracts of original forest still bore no small proportion to the cultivated ground .
The autumn wind wandered among the branches , whirling away the leaves from all except the pine trees and moaning as if it lamented the desolation of which it was the instrument .
The road had penetrated the mass of woods that lay nearest to the town , and was just emerging into an open space , when the traveller 's ears were saluted by a sound more mournful than even that of the wind .
It was like the wailing of some one in distress , and it seemed to proceed from beneath a tall and lonely fir tree in the centre of a cleared but unenclosed and uncultivated field .
The Puritan could not but remember that this was the very spot which had been made accursed a few hours before by the execution of the Quakers , whose bodies had been thrown together into one hasty grave beneath the tree on which they suffered .
He struggled , however , against the superstitious fears which belonged to the age , and compelled himself to pause and listen .
`` The voice is most likely mortal , nor have I cause to tremble if it be otherwise , '' thought he , straining his eyes through the dim moonlight .
`` Methinks it is like the wailing of a child -- some infant , it may be , which has strayed from its mother and chanced upon this place of death .
For the ease of mine own conscience I must search this matter out . ''
He therefore left the path and walked somewhat fearfully across the field .
Though now so desolate , its soil was pressed down and trampled by the thousand footsteps of those who had witnessed the spectacle of that day , all of whom had now retired , leaving the dead to their loneliness .
The traveller at length reached the fir tree , which from the middle upward was covered with living branches , although a scaffold had been erected beneath , and other preparations made for the work of death .
Under this unhappy tree -- which in after-times was believed to drop poison with its dew -- sat the one solitary mourner for innocent blood .
It was a slender and light-clad little boy who leaned his face upon a hillock of fresh-turned and half-frozen earth and wailed bitterly , yet in a suppressed tone , as if his grief might receive the punishment of crime .
The Puritan , whose approach had been unperceived , laid his hand upon the child 's shoulder and addressed him compassionately .
`` You have chosen a dreary lodging , my poor boy , and no wonder that you weep , '' said he .
`` But dry your eyes and tell me where your mother dwells ; I promise you , if the journey be not too far , I will leave you in her arms tonight . ''
The boy had hushed his wailing at once , and turned his face upward to the stranger .
It was a pale , bright-eyed countenance , certainly not more than six years old , but sorrow , fear and want had destroyed much of its infantile expression .
The Puritan , seeing the boy 's frightened gaze and feeling that he trembled under his hand , endeavored to reassure him : `` Nay , if I intended to do you harm , little lad , the readiest way were to leave you here .
What !
you do not fear to sit beneath the gallows on a new-made grave , and yet you tremble at a friend 's touch ?
Take heart , child , and tell me what is your name and where is your home . ''
`` Friend , '' replied the little boy , in a sweet though faltering voice , `` they call me Ilbrahim , and my home is here . ''
The pale , spiritual face , the eyes that seemed to mingle with the moonlight , the sweet , airy voice and the outlandish name almost made the Puritan believe that the boy was in truth a being which had sprung up out of the grave on which he sat ; but perceiving that the apparition stood the test of a short mental prayer , and remembering that the arm which he had touched was lifelike , he adopted a more rational supposition .
`` The poor child is stricken in his intellect , '' thought he , `` but verily his words are fearful in a place like this . ''
He then spoke soothingly , intending to humor the boy 's fantasy : `` Your home will scarce be comfortable , Ilbrahim , this cold autumn night , and I fear you are ill-provided with food .
I am hastening to a warm supper and bed ; and if you will go with me , you shall share them . ''
`` I thank thee , friend , but , though I be hungry and shivering with cold , thou wilt not give me food nor lodging , '' replied the boy , in the quiet tone which despair had taught him even so young .
`` My father was of the people whom all men hate ; they have laid him under this heap of earth , and here is my home . ''
The Puritan , who had laid hold of little Ilbrahim 's hand , relinquished it as if he were touching a loathsome reptile .
But he possessed a compassionate heart which not even religious prejudice could harden into stone .
`` God forbid that I should leave this child to perish , though he comes of the accursed sect , '' said he to himself .
`` Do we not all spring from an evil root ?
Are we not all in darkness till the light doth shine upon us ?
He shall not perish , neither in body nor , if prayer and instruction may avail for him , in soul . ''
He then spoke aloud and kindly to Ilbrahim , who had again hid his face in the cold earth of the grave : `` Was every door in the land shut against you , my child , that you have wandered to this unhallowed spot ? ''
`` They drove me forth from the prison when they took my father thence , '' said the boy , `` and I stood afar off watching the crowd of people ; and when they were gone , I came hither , and found only this grave .
I knew that my father was sleeping here , and I said , ` This shall be my home . ' ''
`` No , child , no , not while I have a roof over my head or a morsel to share with you , '' exclaimed the Puritan , whose sympathies were now fully excited .
`` Rise up and come with me , and fear not any harm . ''
The boy wept afresh , and clung to the heap of earth as if the cold heart beneath it were warmer to him than any in a living breast .
The traveller , however , continued to entreat him tenderly , and , seeming to acquire some degree of confidence , he at length arose ; but his slender limbs tottered with weakness , his little head grew dizzy , and he leaned against the tree of death for support .
`` My poor boy , are you so feeble ? ''
said the Puritan .
`` When did you taste food last ? ''
`` I ate of bread and water with my father in the prison , '' replied Ilbrahim , `` but they brought him none neither yesterday nor to-day , saying that he had eaten enough to bear him to his journey 's end .
Trouble not thyself for my hunger , kind friend , for I have lacked food many times ere now . ''
The traveller took the child in his arms and wrapped his cloak about him , while his heart stirred with shame and anger against the gratuitous cruelty of the instruments in this persecution .
In the awakened warmth of his feelings he resolved that at whatever risk he would not forsake the poor little defenceless being whom Heaven had confided to his care .
With this determination he left the accursed field and resumed the homeward path from which the wailing of the boy had called him .
The light and motionless burden scarcely impeded his progress , and he soon beheld the fire-rays from the windows of the cottage which he , a native of a distant clime , had built in the Western wilderness .
It was surrounded by a considerable extent of cultivated ground , and the dwelling was situated in the nook of a wood-covered hill , whither it seemed to have crept for protection .
`` Look up , child , '' said the Puritan to Ilbrahim , whose faint head had sunk upon his shoulder ; `` there is our home . ''
At the word `` home '' a thrill passed through the child 's frame , but he continued silent .
A few moments brought them to the cottage door , at which the owner knocked ; for at that early period , when savages were wandering everywhere among the settlers , bolt and bar were indispensable to the security of a dwelling .
The summons was answered by a bond-servant , a coarse-clad and dull-featured piece of humanity , who , after ascertaining that his master was the applicant , undid the door and held a flaring pine-knot torch to light him in .
Farther back in the passageway the red blaze discovered a matronly woman , but no little crowd of children came bounding forth to greet their father 's return .
As the Puritan entered he thrust aside his cloak and displayed Ilbrahim 's face to the female .
`` Dorothy , here is a little outcast whom Providence hath put into our hands , '' observed he .
`` Be kind to him , even as if he were of those dear ones who have departed from us . ''
`` What pale and bright-eyed little boy is this , Tobias ? ''
she inquired .
`` Is he one whom the wilderness-folk have ravished from some Christian mother ? ''
`` No , Dorothy ; this poor child is no captive from the wilderness , '' he replied .
`` The heathen savage would have given him to eat of his scanty morsel and to drink of his birchen cup , but Christian men , alas !
had cast him out to die . ''
Then he told her how he had found him beneath the gallows , upon his father 's grave , and how his heart had prompted him like the speaking of an inward voice to take the little outcast home and be kind unto him .
He acknowledged his resolution to feed and clothe him as if he were his own child , and to afford him the instruction which should counteract the pernicious errors hitherto instilled into his infant mind .
Dorothy was gifted with even a quicker tenderness than her husband , and she approved of all his doings and intentions .
`` Have you a mother , dear child ? ''
she inquired .
The tears burst forth from his full heart as he attempted to reply , but Dorothy at length understood that he had a mother , who like the rest of her sect was a persecuted wanderer .
She had been taken from the prison a short time before , carried into the uninhabited wilderness and left to perish there by hunger or wild beasts .
This was no uncommon method of disposing of the Quakers , and they were accustomed to boast that the inhabitants of the desert were more hospitable to them than civilized man .
`` Fear not , little boy ; you shall not need a mother , and a kind one , '' said Dorothy , when she had gathered this information .
`` Dry your tears , Ilbrahim , and be my child , as I will be your mother . ''
The good woman prepared the little bed from which her own children had successively been borne to another resting-place .
Before Ilbrahim would consent to occupy it he knelt down , and as Dorothy listed to his simple and affecting prayer she marvelled how the parents that had taught it to him could have been judged worthy of death .
When the boy had fallen asleep , she bent over his pale and spiritual countenance , pressed a kiss upon his white brow , drew the bedclothes up about his neck , and went away with a pensive gladness in her heart .
Tobias Pearson was not among the earliest emigrants from the old country .
He had remained in England during the first years of the Civil War , in which he had borne some share as a cornet of dragoons under Cromwell .
But when the ambitious designs of his leader began to develop themselves , he quitted the army of the Parliament and sought a refuge from the strife which was no longer holy among the people of his persuasion in the colony of Massachusetts .
A more worldly consideration had perhaps an influence in drawing him thither , for New England offered advantages to men of unprosperous fortunes as well as to dissatisfied religionists , and Pearson had hitherto found it difficult to provide for a wife and increasing family .
To this supposed impurity of motive the more bigoted Puritans were inclined to impute the removal by death of all the children for whose earthly good the father had been over-thoughtful .
They had left their native country blooming like roses , and like roses they had perished in a foreign soil .
Those expounders of the ways of Providence , who had thus judged their brother and attributed his domestic sorrows to his sin , were not more charitable when they saw him and Dorothy endeavoring to fill up the void in their hearts by the adoption of an infant of the accursed sect .
Nor did they fail to communicate their disapprobation to Tobias , but the latter in reply merely pointed at the little quiet , lovely boy , whose appearance and deportment were indeed as powerful arguments as could possibly have been adduced in his own favor .
Even his beauty , however , and his winning manners sometimes produced an effect ultimately unfavorable ; for the bigots , when the outer surfaces of their iron hearts had been softened and again grew hard , affirmed that no merely natural cause could have so worked upon them .
Their antipathy to the poor infant was also increased by the ill-success of divers theological discussions in which it was attempted to convince him of the errors of his sect .
Ilbrahim , it is true , was not a skilful controversialist , but the feeling of his religion was strong as instinct in him , and he could neither be enticed nor driven from the faith which his father had died for .
The odium of this stubbornness was shared in a great measure by the child 's protectors , insomuch that Tobias and Dorothy very shortly began to experience a most bitter species of persecution in the cold regards of many a friend whom they had valued .
The common people manifested their opinions more openly .
Pearson was a man of some consideration , being a representative to the General Court and an approved lieutenant in the train-bands , yet within a week after his adoption of Ilbrahim he had been both hissed and hooted .
Once , also , when walking through a solitary piece of woods , he heard a loud voice from some invisible speaker , and it cried , `` What shall be done to the backslider ?
Lo !
the scourge is knotted for him , even the whip of nine cords , and every cord three knots . ''
These insults irritated Pearson 's temper for the moment ; they entered also into his heart , and became imperceptible but powerful workers toward an end which his most secret thought had not yet whispered .
* * * * * On the second Sabbath after Ilbrahim became a member of their family , Pearson and his wife deemed it proper that he should appear with them at public worship .
They had anticipated some opposition to this measure from the boy , but he prepared himself in silence , and at the appointed hour was clad in the new mourning-suit which Dorothy had wrought for him .
As the parish was then , and during many subsequent years , unprovided with a bell , the signal for the commencement of religious exercises was the beat of a drum .
At the first sound of that martial call to the place of holy and quiet thoughts Tobias and Dorothy set forth , each holding a hand of little Ilbrahim , like two parents linked together by the infant of their love .
On their path through the leafless woods they were overtaken by many persons of their acquaintance , all of whom avoided them and passed by on the other side ; but a severer trial awaited their constancy when they had descended the hill and drew near the pine-built and undecorated house of prayer .
Around the door , from which the drummer still sent forth his thundering summons , was drawn up a formidable phalanx , including several of the oldest members of the congregation , many of the middle-aged and nearly all the younger males .
Pearson found it difficult to sustain their united and disapproving gaze , but Dorothy , whose mind was differently circumstanced , merely drew the boy closer to her and faltered not in her approach .
As they entered the door they overheard the muttered sentiments of the assemblage ; and when the reviling voices of the little children smote Ilbrahim 's ear , he wept .
The interior aspect of the meeting-house was rude .
The low ceiling , the unplastered walls , the naked woodwork and the undraperied pulpit offered nothing to excite the devotion which without such external aids often remains latent in the heart .
The floor of the building was occupied by rows of long cushionless benches , supplying the place of pews , and the broad aisle formed a sexual division impassable except by children beneath a certain age .
Pearson and Dorothy separated at the door of the meeting-house , and Ilbrahim , being within the years of infancy , was retained under the care of the latter .
The wrinkled beldams involved themselves in their rusty cloaks as he passed by ; even the mild-featured maidens seemed to dread contamination ; and many a stern old man arose and turned his repulsive and unheavenly countenance upon the gentle boy , as if the sanctuary were polluted by his presence .
He was a sweet infant of the skies that had strayed away from his home , and all the inhabitants of this miserable world closed up their impure hearts against him , drew back their earth-soiled garments from his touch and said , `` We are holier than thou . ''
Ilbrahim , seated by the side of his adopted mother and retaining fast hold of her hand , assumed a grave and decorous demeanor such as might befit a person of matured taste and understanding who should find himself in a temple dedicated to some worship which he did not recognize , but felt himself bound to respect .
The exercises had not yet commenced , however , when the boy 's attention was arrested by an event apparently of trifling interest .
A woman having her face muffled in a hood and a cloak drawn completely about her form advanced slowly up the broad aisle and took place upon the foremost bench .
Ilbrahim 's faint color varied , his nerves fluttered ; he was unable to turn his eyes from the muffled female .
When the preliminary prayer and hymn were over , the minister arose , and , having turned the hour-glass which stood by the great Bible , commenced his discourse .
He was now well stricken in years , a man of pale , thin countenance , and his gray hairs were closely covered by a black velvet skull-cap .
In his younger days he had practically learned the meaning of persecution from Archbishop Laud , and he was not now disposed to forget the lesson against which he had murmured then .
Introducing the often-discussed subject of the Quakers , he gave a history of that sect and a description of their tenets in which error predominated and prejudice distorted the aspect of what was true .
He adverted to the recent measures in the province , and cautioned his hearers of weaker parts against calling in question the just severity which God-fearing magistrates had at length been compelled to exercise .
He spoke of the danger of pity -- in some cases a commendable and Christian virtue , but inapplicable to this pernicious sect .
He observed that such was their devilish obstinacy in error that even the little children , the sucking babes , were hardened and desperate heretics .
He affirmed that no man without Heaven 's especial warrant should attempt their conversion lest while he lent his hand to draw them from the slough he should himself be precipitated into its lowest depths .
The sands of the second hour were principally in the lower half of the glass when the sermon concluded .
An approving murmur followed , and the clergyman , having given out a hymn , took his seat with much self-congratulation , and endeavored to read the effect of his eloquence in the visages of the people .
But while voices from all parts of the house were tuning themselves to sing a scene occurred which , though not very unusual at that period in the province , happened to be without precedent in this parish .
The muffled female , who had hitherto sat motionless in the front rank of the audience , now arose and with slow , stately and unwavering step ascended the pulpit stairs .
The quaverings of incipient harmony were hushed and the divine sat in speechless and almost terrified astonishment while she undid the door and stood up in the sacred desk from which his maledictions had just been thundered .
She then divested herself of the cloak and hood , and appeared in a most singular array .
A shapeless robe of sackcloth was girded about her waist with a knotted cord ; her raven hair fell down upon her shoulders , and its blackness was defiled by pale streaks of ashes , which she had strewn upon her head .
Her eyebrows , dark and strongly defined , added to the deathly whiteness of a countenance which , emaciated with want and wild with enthusiasm and strange sorrows , retained no trace of earlier beauty .
This figure stood gazing earnestly on the audience , and there was no sound nor any movement except a faint shuddering which every man observed in his neighbor , but was scarcely conscious of in himself .
At length , when her fit of inspiration came , she spoke for the first few moments in a low voice and not invariably distinct utterance .
Her discourse gave evidence of an imagination hopelessly entangled with her reason ; it was a vague and incomprehensible rhapsody , which , however , seemed to spread its own atmosphere round the hearer 's soul , and to move his feelings by some influence unconnected with the words .
As she proceeded beautiful but shadowy images would sometimes be seen like bright things moving in a turbid river , or a strong and singularly shaped idea leapt forth and seized at once on the understanding or the heart .
But the course of her unearthly eloquence soon led her to the persecutions of her sect , and from thence the step was short to her own peculiar sorrows .
She was naturally a woman of mighty passions , and hatred and revenge now wrapped themselves in the garb of piety .
The character of her speech was changed ; her images became distinct though wild , and her denunciations had an almost hellish bitterness .
`` The governor and his mighty men , '' she said , `` have gathered together , taking counsel among themselves and saying , ` What shall we do unto this people -- even unto the people that have come into this land to put our iniquity to the blush ? '
And , lo !
the devil entereth into the council-chamber like a lame man of low stature and gravely apparelled , with a dark and twisted countenance and a bright , downcast eye .
And he standeth up among the rulers ; yea , he goeth to and fro , whispering to each ; and every man lends his ear , for his word is ` Slay !
Slay ! '
But I say unto ye , Woe to them that slay !
Woe to them that shed the blood of saints !
Woe to them that have slain the husband and cast forth the child , the tender infant , to wander homeless and hungry and cold till he die , and have saved the mother alive in the cruelty of their tender mercies !
Woe to them in their lifetime !
Cursed are they in the delight and pleasure of their hearts !
Woe to them in their death-hour , whether it come swiftly with blood and violence or after long and lingering pain !
Woe in the dark house , in the rottenness of the grave , when the children 's children shall revile the ashes of the fathers !
Woe , woe , woe , at the judgment , when all the persecuted and all the slain in this bloody land , and the father , the mother and the child , shall await them in a day that they can not escape !
Seed of the faith , seed of the faith , ye whose hearts are moving with a power that ye know not , arise , wash your hands of this innocent blood !
Lift your voices , chosen ones , cry aloud , and call down a woe and a judgment with me ! ''
Having thus given vent to the flood of malignity which she mistook for inspiration , the speaker was silent .
Her voice was succeeded by the hysteric shrieks of several women , but the feelings of the audience generally had not been drawn onward in the current with her own .
They remained stupefied , stranded , as it were , in the midst of a torrent which deafened them by its roaring , but might not move them by its violence .
The clergyman , who could not hitherto have ejected the usurper of his pulpit otherwise than by bodily force , now addressed her in the tone of just indignation and legitimate authority .
`` Get you down , woman , from the holy place which you profane , '' he said , `` Is it to the Lord 's house that you come to pour forth the foulness of your heart and the inspiration of the devil ?
Get you down , and remember that the sentence of death is on you -- yea , and shall be executed , were it but for this day 's work . ''
`` I go , friend , I go , for the voice hath had its utterance , '' replied she , in a depressed , and even mild , tone .
`` I have done my mission unto thee and to thy people ; reward me with stripes , imprisonment or death , as ye shall be permitted . ''
The weakness of exhausted passion caused her steps to totter as she descended the pulpit stairs .
The people , in the mean while , were stirring to and fro on the floor of the house , whispering among themselves and glancing toward the intruder .
Many of them now recognized her as the woman who had assaulted the governor with frightful language as he passed by the window of her prison ; they knew , also , that she was adjudged to suffer death , and had been preserved only by an involuntary banishment into the wilderness .
The new outrage by which she had provoked her fate seemed to render further lenity impossible , and a gentleman in military dress , with a stout man of inferior rank , drew toward the door of the meetinghouse and awaited her approach .
Scarcely did her feet press the floor , however , when an unexpected scene occurred .
In that moment of her peril , when every eye frowned with death , a little timid boy threw his arms round his mother .
`` I am here , mother ; it is I , and I will go with thee to prison , '' he exclaimed .
She gazed at him with a doubtful and almost frightened expression , for she knew that the boy had been cast out to perish , and she had not hoped to see his face again .
She feared , perhaps , that it was but one of the happy visions with which her excited fancy had often deceived her in the solitude of the desert or in prison ; but when she felt his hand warm within her own and heard his little eloquence of childish love , she began to know that she was yet a mother .
`` Blessed art thou , my son ! ''
she sobbed .
`` My heart was withered -- yea , dead with thee and with thy father -- and now it leaps as in the first moment when I pressed thee to my bosom . ''
She knelt down and embraced him again and again , while the joy that could find no words expressed itself in broken accents , like the bubbles gushing up to vanish at the surface of a deep fountain .
The sorrows of past years and the darker peril that was nigh cast not a shadow on the brightness of that fleeting moment .
Soon , however , the spectators saw a change upon her face as the consciousness of her sad estate returned , and grief supplied the fount of tears which joy had opened .
By the words she uttered it would seem that the indulgence of natural love had given her mind a momentary sense of its errors , and made her know how far she had strayed from duty in following the dictates of a wild fanaticism .
`` In a doleful hour art thou returned to me , poor boy , '' she said , `` for thy mother 's path has gone darkening onward , till now the end is death .
Son , son , I have borne thee in my arms when my limbs were tottering , and I have fed thee with the food that I was fainting for ; yet I have ill-performed a mother 's part by thee in life , and now I leave thee no inheritance but woe and shame .
Thou wilt go seeking through the world , and find all hearts closed against thee and their sweet affections turned to bitterness for my sake .
My child , my child , how many a pang awaits thy gentle spirit , and I the cause of all ! ''
She hid her face on Ilbrahim 's head , and her long raven hair , discolored with the ashes of her mourning , fell down about him like a veil .
A low and interrupted moan was the voice of her heart 's anguish , and it did not fail to move the sympathies of many who mistook their involuntary virtue for a sin .
Sobs were audible in the female section of the house , and every man who was a father drew his hand across his eyes .
Tobias Pearson was agitated and uneasy , but a certain feeling like the consciousness of guilt oppressed him ; so that he could not go forth and offer himself as the protector of the child .
Dorothy , however , had watched her husband 's eye .
Her mind was free from the influence that had begun to work on his , and she drew near the Quaker woman and addressed her in the hearing of all the congregation .
`` Stranger , trust this boy to me , and I will be his mother , '' she said , taking Ilbrahim 's hand .
`` Providence has signally marked out my husband to protect him , and he has fed at our table and lodged under our roof now many days , till our hearts have grown very strongly unto him .
Leave the tender child with us , and be at ease concerning his welfare . ''
The Quaker rose from the ground , but drew the boy closer to her , while she gazed earnestly in Dorothy 's face .
Her mild but saddened features and neat matronly attire harmonized together and were like a verse of fireside poetry .
Her very aspect proved that she was blameless , so far as mortal could be so , in respect to God and man , while the enthusiast , in her robe of sackcloth and girdle of knotted cord , had as evidently violated the duties of the present life and the future by fixing her attention wholly on the latter .
The two females , as they held each a hand of Ilbrahim , formed a practical allegory : it was rational piety and unbridled fanaticism contending for the empire of a young heart .
`` Thou art not of our people , '' said the Quaker , mournfully .
`` No , we are not of your people , '' replied Dorothy , with mildness , `` but we are Christians looking upward to the same heaven with you .
Doubt not that your boy shall meet you there , if there be a blessing on our tender and prayerful guidance of him .
Thither , I trust , my own children have gone before me , for I also have been a mother .
I am no longer so , '' she added , in a faltering tone , `` and your son will have all my care . ''
`` But will ye lead him in the path which his parents have trodden ? ''
demanded the Quaker .
`` Can ye teach him the enlightened faith which his father has died for , and for which I -- even I -- am soon to become an unworthy martyr ?
The boy has been baptized in blood ; will ye keep the mark fresh and ruddy upon his forehead ? ''
`` I will not deceive you , '' answered Dorothy .
`` If your child become our child , we must breed him up in the instruction which Heaven has imparted to us ; we must pray for him the prayers of our own faith ; we must do toward him according to the dictates of our own consciences , and not of yours .
Were we to act otherwise , we should abuse your trust , even in complying with your wishes . ''
The mother looked down upon her boy with a troubled countenance , and then turned her eyes upward to heaven .
She seemed to pray internally , and the contention of her soul was evident .
`` Friend , '' she said , at length , to Dorothy , `` I doubt not that my son shall receive all earthly tenderness at thy hands .
Nay , I will believe that even thy imperfect lights may guide him to a better world , for surely thou art on the path thither .
But thou hast spoken of a husband .
Doth he stand here among this multitude of people ?
Let him come forth , for I must know to whom I commit this most precious trust . ''
She turned her face upon the male auditors , and after a momentary delay Tobias Pearson came forth from among them .
The Quaker saw the dress which marked his military rank , and shook her head ; but then she noted the hesitating air , the eyes that struggled with her own and were vanquished , the color that went and came and could find no resting-place .
As she gazed an unmirthful smile spread over her features , like sunshine that grows melancholy in some desolate spot .
Her lips moved inaudibly , but at length she spake : `` I hear it , I hear it !
The voice speaketh within me and saith , ` Leave thy child , Catharine , for his place is here , and go hence , for I have other work for thee .
Break the bonds of natural affection , martyr thy love , and know that in all these things eternal wisdom hath its ends . '
I go , friends , I go .
Take ye my boy , my precious jewel .
I go hence trusting that all shall be well , and that even for his infant hands there is a labor in the vineyard . ''
She knelt down and whispered to Ilbrahim , who at first struggled and clung to his mother with sobs and tears , but remained passive when she had kissed his cheek and arisen from the ground .
Having held her hands over his head in mental prayer , she was ready to depart .
`` Farewell , friends in mine extremity , '' she said to Pearson and his wife ; `` the good deed ye have done me is a treasure laid up in heaven , to be returned a thousandfold hereafter .
-- And farewell , ye mine enemies , to whom it is not permitted to harm so much as a hair of my head , nor to stay my footsteps even for a moment .
The day is coming when ye shall call upon me to witness for ye to this one sin uncommitted , and I will rise up and answer . ''
She turned her steps toward the door , and the men who had stationed themselves to guard it withdrew and suffered her to pass .
A general sentiment of pity overcame the virulence of religious hatred .
Sanctified by her love and her affliction , she went forth , and all the people gazed after her till she had journeyed up the hill and was lost behind its brow .
She went , the apostle of her own unquiet heart , to renew the wanderings of past years .
For her voice had been already heard in many lands of Christendom , and she had pined in the cells of a Catholic Inquisition before she felt the lash and lay in the dungeons of the Puritans .
Her mission had extended also to the followers of the Prophet , and from them she had received the courtesy and kindness which all the contending sects of our purer religion united to deny her .
Her husband and herself had resided many months in Turkey , where even the sultan 's countenance was gracious to them ; in that pagan land , too , was Ilbrahim 's birthplace , and his Oriental name was a mark of gratitude for the good deeds of an unbeliever .
* * * * * When Pearson and his wife had thus acquired all the rights over Ilbrahim that could be delegated , their affection for him became , like the memory of their native land or their mild sorrow for the dead , a piece of the immovable furniture of their hearts .
The boy , also , after a week or two of mental disquiet , began to gratify his protectors by many inadvertent proofs that he considered them as parents and their house as home .
Before the winter snows were melted the persecuted infant , the little wanderer from a remote and heathen country , seemed native in the New England cottage and inseparable from the warmth and security of its hearth .
Under the influence of kind treatment , and in the consciousness that he was loved , Ilbrahim 's demeanor lost a premature manliness which had resulted from his earlier situation ; he became more childlike and his natural character displayed itself with freedom .
It was in many respects a beautiful one , yet the disordered imaginations of both his father and mother had perhaps propagated a certain unhealthiness in the mind of the boy .
In his general state Ilbrahim would derive enjoyment from the most trifling events and from every object about him ; he seemed to discover rich treasures of happiness by a faculty analogous to that of the witch-hazel , which points to hidden gold where all is barren to the eye .
His airy gayety , coming to him from a thousand sources , communicated itself to the family , and Ilbrahim was like a domesticated sunbeam , brightening moody countenances and chasing away the gloom from the dark corners of the cottage .
On the other hand , as the susceptibility of pleasure is also that of pain , the exuberant cheerfulness of the boy 's prevailing temper sometimes yielded to moments of deep depression .
His sorrows could not always be followed up to their original source , but most frequently they appeared to flow -- though Ilbrahim was young to be sad for such a cause -- from wounded love .
The flightiness of his mirth rendered him often guilty of offences against the decorum of a Puritan household , and on these occasions he did not invariably escape rebuke .
But the slightest word of real bitterness , which he was infallible in distinguishing from pretended anger , seemed to sink into his heart and poison all his enjoyments till he became sensible that he was entirely forgiven .
Of the malice which generally accompanies a superfluity of sensitiveness Ilbrahim was altogether destitute .
When trodden upon , he would not turn ; when wounded , he could but die .
His mind was wanting in the stamina of self-support .
It was a plant that would twine beautifully round something stronger than itself ; but if repulsed or torn away , it had no choice but to wither on the ground .
Dorothy 's acuteness taught her that severity would crush the spirit of the child , and she nurtured him with the gentle care of one who handles a butterfly .
Her husband manifested an equal affection , although it grew daily less productive of familiar caresses .
The feelings of the neighboring people in regard to the Quaker infant and his protectors had not undergone a favorable change , in spite of the momentary triumph which the desolate mother had obtained over their sympathies .
The scorn and bitterness of which he was the object were very grievous to Ilbrahim , especially when any circumstance made him sensible that the children his equals in age partook of the enmity of their parents .
His tender and social nature had already overflowed in attachments to everything about him , and still there was a residue of unappropriated love which he yearned to bestow upon the little ones who were taught to hate him .
As the warm days of spring came on Ilbrahim was accustomed to remain for hours silent and inactive within hearing of the children 's voices at their play , yet with his usual delicacy of feeling he avoided their notice , and would flee and hide himself from the smallest individual among them .
Chance , however , at length seemed to open a medium of communication between his heart and theirs ; it was by means of a boy about two years older than Ilbrahim , who was injured by a fall from a tree in the vicinity of Pearson 's habitation .
As the sufferer 's own home was at some distance , Dorothy willingly received him under her roof and became his tender and careful nurse .
Ilbrahim was the unconscious possessor of much skill in physiognomy , and it would have deterred him in other circumstances from attempting to make a friend of this boy .
The countenance of the latter immediately impressed a beholder disagreeably , but it required some examination to discover that the cause was a very slight distortion of the mouth and the irregular , broken line and near approach of the eyebrows .
Analogous , perhaps , to these trifling deformities was an almost imperceptible twist of every joint and the uneven prominence of the breast , forming a body regular in its general outline , but faulty in almost all its details .
The disposition of the boy was sullen and reserved , and the village schoolmaster stigmatized him as obtuse in intellect , although at a later period of life he evinced ambition and very peculiar talents .
But , whatever might be his personal or moral irregularities , Ilbrahim 's heart seized upon and clung to him from the moment that he was brought wounded into the cottage ; the child of persecution seemed to compare his own fate with that of the sufferer , and to feel that even different modes of misfortune had created a sort of relationship between them .
Food , rest and the fresh air for which he languished were neglected ; he nestled continually by the bedside of the little stranger and with a fond jealousy endeavored to be the medium of all the cares that were bestowed upon him .
As the boy became convalescent Ilbrahim contrived games suitable to his situation or amused him by a faculty which he had perhaps breathed in with the air of his barbaric birthplace .
It was that of reciting imaginary adventures on the spur of the moment , and apparently in inexhaustible succession .
His tales were , of course , monstrous , disjointed and without aim , but they were curious on account of a vein of human tenderness which ran through them all and was like a sweet familiar face encountered in the midst of wild and unearthly scenery .
The auditor paid much attention to these romances and sometimes interrupted them by brief remarks upon the incidents , displaying shrewdness above his years , mingled with a moral obliquity which grated very harshly against Ilbrahim 's instinctive rectitude .
Nothing , however , could arrest the progress of the latter 's affection , and there were many proofs that it met with a response from the dark and stubborn nature on which it was lavished .
The boy 's parents at length removed him to complete his cure under their own roof .
Ilbrahim did not visit his new friend after his departure , but he made anxious and continual inquiries respecting him and informed himself of the day when he was to reappear among his playmates .
On a pleasant summer afternoon the children of the neighborhood had assembled in the little forest-crowned amphitheatre behind the meeting-house , and the recovering invalid was there , leaning on a staff .
The glee of a score of untainted bosoms was heard in light and airy voices , which danced among the trees like sunshine become audible ; the grown men of this weary world as they journeyed by the spot marvelled why life , beginning in such brightness , should proceed in gloom , and their hearts or their imaginations answered them and said that the bliss of childhood gushes from its innocence .
But it happened that an unexpected addition was made to the heavenly little band .
It was Ilbrahim , who came toward the children with a look of sweet confidence on his fair and spiritual face , as if , having manifested his love to one of them , he had no longer to fear a repulse from their society .
A hush came over their mirth the moment they beheld him , and they stood whispering to each other while he drew nigh ; but all at once the devil of their fathers entered into the unbreeched fanatics , and , sending up a fierce , shrill cry , they rushed upon the poor Quaker child .
In an instant he was the centre of a brood of baby-fiends , who lifted sticks against him , pelted him with stones and displayed an instinct of destruction far more loathsome than the bloodthirstiness of manhood .
The invalid , in the mean while , stood apart from the tumult , crying out with a loud voice , `` Fear not , Ilbrahim ; come hither and take my hand , '' and his unhappy friend endeavored to obey him .
After watching the victim 's struggling approach with a calm smile and unabashed eye , the foul-hearted little villain lifted his staff and struck Ilbrahim on the mouth so forcibly that the blood issued in a stream .
The poor child 's arms had been raised to guard his head from the storm of blows , but now he dropped them at once .
His persecutors beat him down , trampled upon him , dragged him by his long fair locks , and Ilbrahim was on the point of becoming as veritable a martyr as ever entered bleeding into heaven .
The uproar , however , attracted the notice of a few neighbors , who put themselves to the trouble of rescuing the little heretic , and of conveying him to Pearson 's door .
Ilbrahim 's bodily harm was severe , but long and careful nursing accomplished his recovery ; the injury done to his sensitive spirit was more serious , though not so visible .
Its signs were principally of a negative character , and to be discovered only by those who had previously known him .
His gait was thenceforth slow , even and unvaried by the sudden bursts of sprightlier motion which had once corresponded to his overflowing gladness ; his countenance was heavier , and its former play of expression -- the dance of sunshine reflected from moving water -- was destroyed by the cloud over his existence ; his notice was attracted in a far less degree by passing events , and he appeared to find greater difficulty in comprehending what was new to him than at a happier period .
A stranger founding his judgment upon these circumstances would have said that the dulness of the child 's intellect widely contradicted the promise of his features , but the secret was in the direction of Ilbrahim 's thoughts , which were brooding within him when they should naturally have been wandering abroad .
An attempt of Dorothy to revive his former sportiveness was the single occasion on which his quiet demeanor yielded to a violent display of grief ; he burst into passionate weeping and ran and hid himself , for his heart had become so miserably sore that even the hand of kindness tortured it like fire .
Sometimes at night , and probably in his dreams , he was heard to cry , `` Mother !
Mother ! ''
as if her place , which a stranger had supplied while Ilbrahim was happy , admitted of no substitute in his extreme affliction .
Perhaps among the many life-weary wretches then upon the earth there was not one who combined innocence and misery like this poor broken-hearted infant so soon the victim of his own heavenly nature .
While this melancholy change had taken place in Ilbrahim , one of an earlier origin and of different character had come to its perfection in his adopted father .
The incident with which this tale commences found Pearson in a state of religious dulness , yet mentally disquieted and longing for a more fervid faith than he possessed .
The first effect of his kindness to Ilbrahim was to produce a softened feeling , an incipient love for the child 's whole sect , but joined to this , and resulting , perhaps , from self-suspicion , was a proud and ostentatious contempt of their tenets and practical extravagances .
In the course of much thought , however -- for the subject struggled irresistibly into his mind -- the foolishness of the doctrine began to be less evident , and the points which had particularly offended his reason assumed another aspect or vanished entirely away .
The work within him appeared to go on even while he slept , and that which had been a doubt when he laid down to rest would often hold the place of a truth confirmed by some forgotten demonstration when he recalled his thoughts in the morning .
But , while he was thus becoming assimilated to the enthusiasts , his contempt , in nowise decreasing toward them , grew very fierce against himself ; he imagined , also , that every face of his acquaintance wore a sneer , and that every word addressed to him was a gibe .
Such was his state of mind at the period of Ilbrahim 's misfortune , and the emotions consequent upon that event completed the change of which the child had been the original instrument .
In the mean time , neither the fierceness of the persecutors nor the infatuation of their victims had decreased .
The dungeons were never empty ; the streets of almost every village echoed daily with the lash ; the life of a woman whose mild and Christian spirit no cruelty could embitter had been sacrificed , and more innocent blood was yet to pollute the hands that were so often raised in prayer .
Early after the Restoration the English Quakers represented to Charles II .
that a `` vein of blood was open in his dominions , '' but , though the displeasure of the voluptuous king was roused , his interference was not prompt .
And now the tale must stride forward over many months , leaving Pearson to encounter ignominy and misfortune ; his wife , to a firm endurance of a thousand sorrows ; poor Ilbrahim , to pine and droop like a cankered rose-bud ; his mother , to wander on a mistaken errand , neglectful of the holiest trust which can be committed to a woman .
* * * * * A winter evening , a night of storm , had darkened over Pearson 's habitation , and there were no cheerful faces to drive the gloom from his broad hearth .
The fire , it is true , sent forth a glowing heat and a ruddy light , and large logs dripping with half-melted snow lay ready to cast upon the embers .
But the apartment was saddened in its aspect by the absence of much of the homely wealth which had once adorned it , for the exaction of repeated fines and his own neglect of temporal affairs had greatly impoverished the owner .
And with the furniture of peace the implements of war had likewise disappeared ; the sword was broken , the helm and cuirass were cast away for ever : the soldier had done with battles , and might not lift so much as his naked hand to guard his head .
But the Holy Book remained , and the table on which it rested was drawn before the fire , while two of the persecuted sect sought comfort from its pages .
He who listened while the other read was the master of the house , now emaciated in form and altered as to the expression and healthiness of his countenance , for his mind had dwelt too long among visionary thoughts and his body had been worn by imprisonment and stripes .
The hale and weatherbeaten old man who sat beside him had sustained less injury from a far longer course of the same mode of life .
In person he was tall and dignified , and , which alone would have made him hateful to the Puritans , his gray locks fell from beneath the broad-brimmed hat and rested on his shoulders .
As the old man read the sacred page the snow drifted against the windows or eddied in at the crevices of the door , while a blast kept laughing in the chimney and the blaze leaped fiercely up to seek it .
And sometimes , when the wind struck the hill at a certain angle and swept down by the cottage across the wintry plain , its voice was the most doleful that can be conceived ; it came as if the past were speaking , as if the dead had contributed each a whisper , as if the desolation of ages were breathed in that one lamenting sound .
The Quaker at length closed the book , retaining , however , his hand between the pages which he had been reading , while he looked steadfastly at Pearson .
The attitude and features of the latter might have indicated the endurance of bodily pain ; he leaned his forehead on his hands , his teeth were firmly closed and his frame was tremulous at intervals with a nervous agitation .
`` Friend Tobias , '' inquired the old man , compassionately , `` hast thou found no comfort in these many blessed passages of Scripture ? ''
`` Thy voice has fallen on my ear like a sound afar off and indistinct , '' replied Pearson , without lifting his eyes .
`` Yea ; and when I have hearkened carefully , the words seemed cold and lifeless and intended for another and a lesser grief than mine .
Remove the book , '' he added , in a tone of sullen bitterness ; `` I have no part in its consolations , and they do but fret my sorrow the more . ''
`` Nay , feeble brother ; be not as one who hath never known the light , '' said the elder Quaker , earnestly , but with mildness .
`` Art thou he that wouldst be content to give all and endure all for conscience ' sake , desiring even peculiar trials that thy faith might be purified and thy heart weaned from worldly desires ?
And wilt thou sink beneath an affliction which happens alike to them that have their portion here below and to them that lay up treasure in heaven ?
Faint not , for thy burden is yet light . ''
`` It is heavy !
It is heavier than I can bear ! ''
exclaimed Pearson , with the impatience of a variable spirit .
`` From my youth upward I have been a man marked out for wrath , and year by year -- yea , day after day -- I have endured sorrows such as others know not in their lifetime .
And now I speak not of the love that has been turned to hatred , the honor to ignominy , the ease and plentifulness of all things to danger , want and nakedness .
All this I could have borne and counted myself blessed .
But when my heart was desolate with many losses , I fixed it upon the child of a stranger , and he became dearer to me than all my buried ones ; and now he too must die as if my love were poison .
Verily , I am an accursed man , and I will lay me down in the dust and lift up my head no more . ''
`` Thou sinnest , brother , but it is not for me to rebuke thee , for I also have had my hours of darkness wherein I have murmured against the cross , '' said the old Quaker .
He continued , perhaps in the hope of distracting his companion 's thoughts from his own sorrows : `` Even of late was the light obscured within me , when the men of blood had banished me on pain of death and the constables led me onward from village to village toward the wilderness .
A strong and cruel hand was wielding the knotted cords ; they sunk deep into the flesh , and thou mightst have tracked every reel and totter of my footsteps by the blood that followed .
As we went on -- '' `` Have I not borne all this , and have I murmured ? ''
interrupted Pearson , impatiently .
`` Nay , friend , but hear me , '' continued the other .
`` As we journeyed on night darkened on our path , so that no man could see the rage of the persecutors or the constancy of my endurance , though Heaven forbid that I should glory therein .
The lights began to glimmer in the cottage windows , and I could discern the inmates as they gathered in comfort and security , every man with his wife and children by their own evening hearth .
At length we came to a tract of fertile land .
In the dim light the forest was not visible around it , and , behold , there was a straw-thatched dwelling which bore the very aspect of my home far over the wild ocean -- far in our own England .
Then came bitter thoughts upon me -- yea , remembrances that were like death to my soul .
The happiness of my early days was painted to me , the disquiet of my manhood , the altered faith of my declining years .
I remembered how I had been moved to go forth a wanderer when my daughter , the youngest , the dearest of my flock , lay on her dying-bed , and -- '' `` Couldst thou obey the command at such a moment ? ''
exclaimed Pearson , shuddering .
`` Yea !
yea ! ''
replied the old man , hurriedly .
`` I was kneeling by her bedside when the voice spoke loud within me , but immediately I rose and took my staff and gat me gone .
Oh that it were permitted me to forget her woeful look when I thus withdrew my arm and left her journeying through the dark valley alone !
for her soul was faint and she had leaned upon my prayers .
Now in that night of horror I was assailed by the thought that I had been an erring Christian and a cruel parent ; yea , even my daughter with her pale dying features seemed to stand by me and whisper , ` Father , you are deceived ; go home and shelter your gray head . '
-- O Thou to whom I have looked in my furthest wanderings , '' continued the Quaker , raising his agitated eyes to heaven , `` inflict not upon the bloodiest of our persecutors the unmitigated agony of my soul when I believed that all I had done and suffered for thee was at the instigation of a mocking fiend !
-- But I yielded not ; I knelt down and wrestled with the tempter , while the scourge bit more fiercely into the flesh .
My prayer was heard , and I went on in peace and joy toward the wilderness . ''
The old man , though his fanaticism had generally all the calmness of reason , was deeply moved while reciting this tale , and his unwonted emotion seemed to rebuke and keep down that of his companion .
They sat in silence , with their faces to the fire , imagining , perhaps , in its red embers new scenes of persecution yet to be encountered .
The snow still drifted hard against the windows , and sometimes , as the blaze of the logs had gradually sunk , came down the spacious chimney and hissed upon the hearth .
A cautious footstep might now and then be heard in a neighboring apartment , and the sound invariably drew the eyes of both Quakers to the door which led thither .
When a fierce and riotous gust of wind had led his thoughts by a natural association to homeless travellers on such a night , Pearson resumed the conversation .
`` I have wellnigh sunk under my own share of this trial , '' observed he , sighing heavily ; `` yet I would that it might be doubled to me , if so the child 's mother could be spared .
Her wounds have been deep and many , but this will be the sorest of all . ''
`` Fear not for Catharine , '' replied the old Quaker , `` for I know that valiant woman and have seen how she can bear the cross .
A mother 's heart , indeed , is strong in her , and may seem to contend mightily with her faith ; but soon she will stand up and give thanks that her son has been thus early an accepted sacrifice .
The boy hath done his work , and she will feel that he is taken hence in kindness both to him and her .
Blessed , blessed are they that with so little suffering can enter into peace ! ''
The fitful rush of the wind was now disturbed by a portentous sound : it was a quick and heavy knocking at the outer door .
Pearson 's wan countenance grew paler , for many a visit of persecution had taught him what to dread ; the old man , on the other hand , stood up erect , and his glance was firm as that of the tried soldier who awaits his enemy .
`` The men of blood have come to seek me , '' he observed , with calmness .
`` They have heard how I was moved to return from banishment , and now am I to be led to prison , and thence to death .
It is an end I have long looked for .
I will open unto them lest they say , ` Lo , he feareth ! ' ''
`` Nay ; I will present myself before them , '' said Pearson , with recovered fortitude .
`` It may be that they seek me alone and know not that thou abidest with me . ''
`` Let us go boldly , both one and the other , '' rejoined his companion .
`` It is not fitting that thou or I should shrink . ''
They therefore proceeded through the entry to the door , which they opened , bidding the applicant `` Come in , in God 's name ! ''
A furious blast of wind drove the storm into their faces and extinguished the lamp ; they had barely time to discern a figure so white from head to foot with the drifted snow that it seemed like Winter 's self come in human shape to seek refuge from its own desolation .
`` Enter , friend , and do thy errand , be it what it may , '' said Pearson .
`` It must needs be pressing , since thou comest on such a bitter night . ''
`` Peace be with this household ! ''
said the stranger , when they stood on the floor of the inner apartment .
Pearson started ; the elder Quaker stirred the slumbering embers of the fire till they sent up a clear and lofty blaze .
It was a female voice that had spoken ; it was a female form that shone out , cold and wintry , in that comfortable light .
`` Catharine , blessed woman , '' exclaimed the old man , `` art thou come to this darkened land again ?
Art thou come to bear a valiant testimony as in former years ?
The scourge hath not prevailed against thee , and from the dungeon hast thou come forth triumphant , but strengthen , strengthen now thy heart , Catharine , for Heaven will prove thee yet this once ere thou go to thy reward . ''
`` Rejoice , friends ! ''
she replied .
`` Thou who hast long been of our people , and thou whom a little child hath led to us , rejoice !
Lo , I come , the messenger of glad tidings , for the day of persecution is over-past .
The heart of the king , even Charles , hath been moved in gentleness toward us , and he hath sent forth his letters to stay the hands of the men of blood .
A ship 's company of our friends hath arrived at yonder town , and I also sailed joyfully among them . ''
As Catharine spoke her eyes were roaming about the room in search of him for whose sake security was dear to her .
Pearson made a silent appeal to the old man , nor did the latter shrink from the painful task assigned him .
`` Sister , '' he began , in a softened yet perfectly calm tone , `` thou tellest us of his love manifested in temporal good , and now must we speak to thee of that selfsame love displayed in chastenings .
Hitherto , Catharine , thou hast been as one journeying in a darksome and difficult path and leading an infant by the hand ; fain wouldst thou have looked heavenward continually , but still the cares of that little child have drawn thine eyes and thy affections to the earth .
Sister , go on rejoicing , for his tottering footsteps shall impede thine own no more . ''
But the unhappy mother was not thus to be consoled .
She shook like a leaf ; she turned white as the very snow that hung drifted into her hair .
The firm old man extended his hand and held her up , keeping his eye upon hers as if to repress any outbreak of passion .
`` I am a woman -- I am but a woman ; will He try me above my strength ? ''
said Catharine , very quickly and almost in a whisper .
`` I have been wounded sore ; I have suffered much -- many things in the body , many in the mind ; crucified in myself and in them that were dearest to me .
Surely , '' added she , with a long shudder , `` he hath spared me in this one thing . ''
She broke forth with sudden and irrepressible violence : `` Tell me , man of cold heart , what has God done to me ?
Hath he cast me down never to rise again ?
Hath he crushed my very heart in his hand ?
-- And thou to whom I committed my child , how hast thou fulfilled thy trust ?
Give me back the boy well , sound , alive -- alive -- or earth and heaven shall avenge me ! ''
The agonized shriek of Catharine was answered by the faint -- the very faint -- voice of a child .
On this day it had become evident to Pearson , to his aged guest and to Dorothy that Ilbrahim 's brief and troubled pilgrimage drew near its close .
The two former would willingly have remained by him to make use of the prayers and pious discourses which they deemed appropriate to the time , and which , if they be impotent as to the departing traveller 's reception in the world whither he goes , may at least sustain him in bidding adieu to earth .
But , though Ilbrahim uttered no complaint , he was disturbed by the faces that looked upon him ; so that Dorothy 's entreaties and their own conviction that the child 's feet might tread heaven 's pavement and not soil it had induced the two Quakers to remove .
Ilbrahim then closed his eyes and grew calm , and , except for now and then a kind and low word to his nurse , might have been thought to slumber .
As nightfall came on , however , and the storm began to rise , something seemed to trouble the repose of the boy 's mind and to render his sense of hearing active and acute .
If a passing wind lingered to shake the casement , he strove to turn his head toward it ; if the door jarred to and fro upon its hinges , he looked long and anxiously thitherward ; if the heavy voice of the old man as he read the Scriptures rose but a little higher , the child almost held his dying-breath to listen ; if a snowdrift swept by the cottage with a sound like the trailing of a garment , Ilbrahim seemed to watch that some visitant should enter .
But after a little time he relinquished whatever secret hope had agitated him and with one low complaining whisper turned his cheek upon the pillow .
He then addressed Dorothy with his usual sweetness and besought her to draw near him ; she did so , and Ilbrahim took her hand in both of his , grasping it with a gentle pressure , as if to assure himself that he retained it .
At intervals , and without disturbing the repose of his countenance , a very faint trembling passed over him from head to foot , as if a mild but somewhat cool wind had breathed upon him and made him shiver .
As the boy thus led her by the hand in his quiet progress over the borders of eternity , Dorothy almost imagined that she could discern the near though dim delightfulness of the home he was about to reach ; she would not have enticed the little wanderer back , though she bemoaned herself that she must leave him and return .
But just when Ilbrahim 's feet were pressing on the soil of Paradise he heard a voice behind him , and it recalled him a few , few paces of the weary path which he had travelled .
As Dorothy looked upon his features she perceived that their placid expression was again disturbed .
Her own thoughts had been so wrapped in him that all sounds of the storm and of human speech were lost to her ; but when Catharine 's shriek pierced through the room , the boy strove to raise himself .
`` Friend , she is come !
Open unto her ! ''
cried he .
In a moment his mother was kneeling by the bedside ; she drew Ilbrahim to her bosom , and he nestled there with no violence of joy , but contentedly as if he were hushing himself to sleep .
He looked into her face , and , reading its agony , said with feeble earnestness , `` Mourn not , dearest mother .
I am happy now ; '' and with these words the gentle boy was dead .
* * * * * The king 's mandate to stay the New England persecutors was effectual in preventing further martyrdoms , but the colonial authorities , trusting in the remoteness of their situation , and perhaps in the supposed instability of the royal government , shortly renewed their severities in all other respects .
Catharine 's fanaticism had become wilder by the sundering of all human ties ; and wherever a scourge was lifted , there was she to receive the blow ; and whenever a dungeon was unbarred , thither she came to cast herself upon the floor .
But in process of time a more Christian spirit -- a spirit of forbearance , though not of cordiality or approbation -- began to pervade the land in regard to the persecuted sect .
And then , when the rigid old Pilgrims eyed her rather in pity than in wrath , when the matrons fed her with the fragments of their children 's food and offered her a lodging on a hard and lowly bed , when no little crowd of schoolboys left their sports to cast stones after the roving enthusiast , -- then did Catharine return to Pearson 's dwelling , and made that her home .
As if Ilbrahim 's sweetness yet lingered round his ashes , as if his gentle spirit came down from heaven to teach his parent a true religion , her fierce and vindictive nature was softened by the same griefs which had once irritated it .
When the course of years had made the features of the unobtrusive mourner familiar in the settlement , she became a subject of not deep but general interest -- a being on whom the otherwise superfluous sympathies of all might be bestowed .
Every one spoke of her with that degree of pity which it is pleasant to experience ; every one was ready to do her the little kindnesses which are not costly , yet manifest good-will ; and when at last she died , a long train of her once bitter persecutors followed her with decent sadness and tears that were not painful to her place by Ilbrahim 's green and sunken grave .
MR. HIGGINBOTHAM 'S CATASTROPHE .
A young fellow , a tobacco-pedler by trade , was on his way from Morristown , where he had dealt largely with the deacon of the Shaker settlement , to the village of Parker 's Falls , on Salmon River .
He had a neat little cart painted green , with a box of cigars depicted on each side-panel , and an Indian chief holding a pipe and a golden tobacco-stalk on the rear .
The pedler drove a smart little mare and was a young man of excellent character , keen at a bargain , but none the worse liked by the Yankees , who , as I have heard them say , would rather be shaved with a sharp razor than a dull one .
Especially was he beloved by the pretty girls along the Connecticut , whose favor he used to court by presents of the best smoking-tobacco in his stock , knowing well that the country-lasses of New England are generally great performers on pipes .
Moreover , as will be seen in the course of my story , the pedler was inquisitive and something of a tattler , always itching to hear the news and anxious to tell it again .
After an early breakfast at Morristown the tobacco-pedler -- whose name was Dominicus Pike -- had travelled seven miles through a solitary piece of woods without speaking a word to anybody but himself and his little gray mare .
It being nearly seven o'clock , he was as eager to hold a morning gossip as a city shopkeeper to read the morning paper .
An opportunity seemed at hand when , after lighting a cigar with a sun-glass , he looked up and perceived a man coming over the brow of the hill at the foot of which the pedler had stopped his green cart .
Dominicus watched him as he descended , and noticed that he carried a bundle over his shoulder on the end of a stick and travelled with a weary yet determined pace .
He did not look as if he had started in the freshness of the morning , but had footed it all night , and meant to do the same all day .
`` Good-morning , mister , '' said Dominicus , when within speaking-distance .
`` You go a pretty good jog .
What 's the latest news at Parker 's Falls ? ''
The man pulled the broad brim of a gray hat over his eyes , and answered , rather sullenly , that he did not come from Parker 's Falls , which , as being the limit of his own day 's journey , the pedler had naturally mentioned in his inquiry .
`` Well , then , '' rejoined Dominicus Pike , `` let 's have the latest news where you did come from .
I 'm not particular about Parker 's Falls .
Any place will answer . ''
Being thus importuned , the traveller -- who was as ill-looking a fellow as one would desire to meet in a solitary piece of woods -- appeared to hesitate a little , as if he was either searching his memory for news or weighing the expediency of telling it .
At last , mounting on the step of the cart , he whispered in the ear of Dominicus , though he might have shouted aloud and no other mortal would have heard him .
`` I do remember one little trifle of news , '' said he .
`` Old Mr. Higginbotham of Kimballton was murdered in his orchard at eight o'clock last night by an Irishman and a nigger .
They strung him up to the branch of a St. Michael 's pear tree where nobody would find him till the morning . ''
As soon as this horrible intelligence was communicated the stranger betook himself to his journey again with more speed than ever , not even turning his head when Dominicus invited him to smoke a Spanish cigar and relate all the particulars .
The pedler whistled to his mare and went up the hill , pondering on the doleful fate of Mr. Higginbotham , whom he had known in the way of trade , having sold him many a bunch of long nines and a great deal of pig-tail , lady 's twist and fig tobacco .
He was rather astonished at the rapidity with which the news had spread .
Kimballton was nearly sixty miles distant in a straight line ; the murder had been perpetrated only at eight o'clock the preceding night , yet Dominicus had heard of it at seven in the morning , when , in all probability , poor Mr. Higginbotham 's own family had but just discovered his corpse hanging on the St. Michael 's pear tree .
The stranger on foot must have worn seven-league boots , to travel at such a rate .
`` Ill-news flies fast , they say , '' thought Dominicus Pike , `` but this beats railroads .
The fellow ought to be hired to go express with the President 's message . ''
The difficulty was solved by supposing that the narrator had made a mistake of one day in the date of the occurrence ; so that our friend did not hesitate to introduce the story at every tavern and country-store along the road , expending a whole bunch of Spanish wrappers among at least twenty horrified audiences .
He found himself invariably the first bearer of the intelligence , and was so pestered with questions that he could not avoid filling up the outline till it became quite a respectable narrative .
He met with one piece of corroborative evidence .
Mr. Higginbotham was a trader , and a former clerk of his to whom Dominicus related the facts testified that the old gentleman was accustomed to return home through the orchard about nightfall with the money and valuable papers of the store in his pocket .
The clerk manifested but little grief at Mr. Higginbotham 's catastrophe , hinting -- what the pedler had discovered in his own dealings with him -- that he was a crusty old fellow as close as a vise .
His property would descend to a pretty niece who was now keeping school in Kimballton .
What with telling the news for the public good and driving bargains for his own , Dominicus was so much delayed on the road that he chose to put up at a tavern about five miles short of Parker 's Falls .
After supper , lighting one of his prime cigars , he seated himself in the bar-room and went through the story of the murder , which had grown so fast that it took him half an hour to tell .
There were as many as twenty people in the room , nineteen of whom received it all for gospel .
But the twentieth was an elderly farmer who had arrived on horseback a short time before and was now seated in a corner , smoking his pipe .
When the story was concluded , he rose up very deliberately , brought his chair right in front of Dominicus and stared him full in the face , puffing out the vilest tobacco-smoke the pedler had ever smelt .
`` Will you make affidavit , '' demanded he , in the tone of a country-justice taking an examination , `` that old Squire Higginbotham of Kimballton was murdered in his orchard the night before last and found hanging on his great pear tree yesterday morning ? ''
`` I tell the story as I heard it , mister , '' answered Dominicus , dropping his half-burnt cigar .
`` I do n't say that I saw the thing done , so I ca n't take my oath that he was murdered exactly in that way . ''
`` But I can take mine , '' said the farmer , `` that if Squire Higginbotham was murdered night before last I drank a glass of bitters with his ghost this morning .
Being a neighbor of mine , he called me into his store as I was riding by , and treated me , and then asked me to do a little business for him on the road .
He did n't seem to know any more about his own murder than I did . ''
`` Why , then it ca n't be a fact ! ''
exclaimed Dominicus Pike .
`` I guess he 'd have mentioned , if it was , '' said the old farmer ; and he removed his chair back to the corner , leaving Dominicus quite down in the mouth .
Here was a sad resurrection of old Mr. Higginbotham !
The pedler had no heart to mingle in the conversation any more , but comforted himself with a glass of gin and water and went to bed , where all night long he dreamed of hanging on the St. Michael 's pear tree .
To avoid the old farmer -LRB- whom he so detested that his suspension would have pleased him better than Mr. Higginbotham 's -RRB- , Dominicus rose in the gray of the morning , put the little mare into the green cart and trotted swiftly away toward Parker 's Falls .
The fresh breeze , the dewy road and the pleasant summer dawn revived his spirits , and might have encouraged him to repeat the old story had there been anybody awake to bear it , but he met neither ox-team , light wagon , chaise , horseman nor foot-traveller till , just as he crossed Salmon River , a man came trudging down to the bridge with a bundle over his shoulder , on the end of a stick .
`` Good-morning , mister , '' said the pedler , reining in his mare .
`` If you come from Kimballton or that neighborhood , maybe you can tell me the real fact about this affair of old Mr. Higginbotham .
Was the old fellow actually murdered two or three nights ago by an Irishman and a nigger ? ''
Dominicus had spoken in too great a hurry to observe at first that the stranger himself had a deep tinge of negro blood .
On hearing this sudden question the Ethiopian appeared to change his skin , its yellow hue becoming a ghastly white , while , shaking and stammering , he thus replied : `` No , no !
There was no colored man .
It was an Irishman that hanged him last night at eight o'clock ; I came away at seven .
His folks ca n't have looked for him in the orchard yet . ''
Scarcely had the yellow man spoken , when he interrupted himself and , though he seemed weary enough before , continued his journey at a pace which would have kept the pedler 's mare on a smart trot .
Dominicus stared after him in great perplexity .
If the murder had not been committed till Tuesday night , who was the prophet that had foretold it in all its circumstances on Tuesday morning ?
If Mr. Higginbotham 's corpse were not yet discovered by his own family , how came the mulatto , at above thirty miles ' distance , to know that he was hanging in the orchard , especially as he had left Kimballton before the unfortunate man was hanged at all ?
These ambiguous circumstances , with the stranger 's surprise and terror , made Dominicus think of raising a hue-and-cry after him as an accomplice in the murder , since a murder , it seemed , had really been perpetrated .
`` But let the poor devil go , '' thought the pedler .
`` I do n't want his black blood on my head , and hanging the nigger would n't unhang Mr. Higginbotham .
Unhang the old gentleman ?
It 's a sin , I know , but I should hate to have him come to life a second time and give me the lie . ''
With these meditations Dominicus Pike drove into the street of Parker 's Falls , which , as everybody knows , is as thriving a village as three cotton-factories and a slitting-mill can make it .
The machinery was not in motion and but a few of the shop doors unbarred when he alighted in the stable-yard of the tavern and made it his first business to order the mare four quarts of oats .
His second duty , of course , was to impart Mr. Higginbotham 's catastrophe to the hostler .
He deemed it advisable , however , not to be too positive as to the date of the direful fact , and also to be uncertain whether it were perpetrated by an Irishman and a mulatto or by the son of Erin alone .
Neither did he profess to relate it on his own authority or that of any one person , but mentioned it as a report generally diffused .
The story ran through the town like fire among girdled trees , and became so much the universal talk that nobody could tell whence it had originated .
Mr. Higginbotham was as well known at Parker 's Falls as any citizen of the place , being part-owner of the slitting-mill and a considerable stockholder in the cotton-factories .
The inhabitants felt their own prosperity interested in his fate .
Such was the excitement that the Parker 's Falls Gazette anticipated its regular day of publication , and came out with half a form of blank paper and a column of double pica emphasized with capitals and headed `` HORRID MURDER OF MR. HIGGINBOTHAM ! ''
Among other dreadful details , the printed account described the mark of the cord round the dead man 's neck and stated the number of thousand dollars of which he had been robbed ; there was much pathos , also , about the affliction of his niece , who had gone from one fainting-fit to another ever since her uncle was found hanging on the St. Michael 's pear tree with his pockets inside out .
The village poet likewise commemorated the young lady 's grief in seventeen stanzas of a ballad .
The selectmen held a meeting , and in consideration of Mr. Higginbotham 's claims on the town determined to issue handbills offering a reward of five hundred dollars for the apprehension of his murderers and the recovery of the stolen property .
Meanwhile , the whole population of Parker 's Falls , consisting of shopkeepers , mistresses of boarding-houses , factory-girls , mill-men and schoolboys , rushed into the street and kept up such a terrible loquacity as more than compensated for the silence of the cotton-machines , which refrained from their usual din out of respect to the deceased .
Had Mr. Higginbotham cared about posthumous renown , his untimely ghost would have exulted in this tumult .
Our friend Dominicus in his vanity of heart forgot his intended precautions , and , mounting on the town-pump , announced himself as the bearer of the authentic intelligence which had caused so wonderful a sensation .
He immediately became the great man of the moment , and had just begun a new edition of the narrative with a voice like a field-preacher when the mail-stage drove into the village street .
It had travelled all night , and must have shifted horses at Kimballton at three in the morning .
`` Now we shall hear all the particulars ! ''
shouted the crowd .
The coach rumbled up to the piazza of the tavern followed by a thousand people ; for if any man had been minding his own business till then , he now left it at sixes and sevens to hear the news .
The pedler , foremost in the race , discovered two passengers , both of whom had been startled from a comfortable nap to find themselves in the centre of a mob .
Every man assailing them with separate questions , all propounded at once , the couple were struck speechless , though one was a lawyer and the other a young lady .
`` Mr. Higginbotham !
Mr. Higginbotham !
Tell us the particulars about old Mr. Higginbotham ! ''
bawled the mob .
`` What is the coroner 's verdict ?
Are the murderers apprehended ?
Is Mr. Higginbotham 's niece come out of her fainting-fits ?
Mr. Higginbotham !
Mr. Higginbotham ! ''
The coachman said not a word except to swear awfully at the hostler for not bringing him a fresh team of horses .
The lawyer inside had generally his wits about him even when asleep ; the first thing he did after learning the cause of the excitement was to produce a large red pocketbook .
Meantime , Dominicus Pike , being an extremely polite young man , and also suspecting that a female tongue would tell the story as glibly as a lawyer 's , had handed the lady out of the coach .
She was a fine , smart girl , now wide awake and bright as a button , and had such a sweet , pretty mouth that Dominicus would almost as lief have heard a love-tale from it as a tale of murder .
`` Gentlemen and ladies , '' said the lawyer to the shopkeepers , the mill-men and the factory-girls , `` I can assure you that some unaccountable mistake -- or , more probably , a wilful falsehood maliciously contrived to injure Mr. Higginbotham 's credit -- has excited this singular uproar .
We passed through Kimballton at three o'clock this morning , and most certainly should have been informed of the murder had any been perpetrated .
But I have proof nearly as strong as Mr. Higginbotham 's own oral testimony in the negative .
Here is a note relating to a suit of his in the Connecticut courts which was delivered me from that gentleman himself .
I find it dated at ten o'clock last evening . ''
So saying , the lawyer , exhibited the date and signature of the note , which irrefragably proved either that this perverse Mr. Higginbotham was alive when he wrote it , or , as some deemed the more probable case of two doubtful ones , that he was so absorbed in worldly business as to continue to transact it even after his death .
But unexpected evidence was forthcoming .
The young lady , after listening to the pedler 's explanation , merely seized a moment to smooth her gown and put her curls in order , and then appeared at the tavern door , making a modest signal to be heard .
`` Good people , '' said she , `` I am Mr. Higginbotham 's niece . ''
A wondering murmur passed through the crowd on beholding her so rosy and bright -- that same unhappy niece whom they had supposed , on the authority of the Parker 's Falls Gazette , to be lying at death 's door in a fainting-fit .
But some shrewd fellows had doubted all along whether a young lady would be quite so desperate at the hanging of a rich old uncle .
`` You see , '' continued Miss Higginbotham , with a smile , `` that this strange story is quite unfounded as to myself , and I believe I may affirm it to be equally so in regard to my dear uncle Higginbotham .
He has the kindness to give me a home in his house , though I contribute to my own support by teaching a school .
I left Kimballton this morning to spend the vacation of commencement-week with a friend about five miles from Parker 's Falls .
My generous uncle , when he heard me on the stairs , called me to his bedside and gave me two dollars and fifty cents to pay my stage-fare , and another dollar for my extra expenses .
He then laid his pocketbook under his pillow , shook hands with me , and advised me to take some biscuit in my bag instead of breakfasting on the road .
I feel confident , therefore , that I left my beloved relative alive , and trust that I shall find him so on my return . ''
The young lady courtesied at the close of her speech , which was so sensible and well worded , and delivered with such grace and propriety , that everybody thought her fit to be preceptress of the best academy in the State .
But a stranger would have supposed that Mr. Higginbotham was an object of abhorrence at Parker 's Falls and that a thanksgiving had been proclaimed for his murder , so excessive was the wrath of the inhabitants on learning their mistake .
The mill-men resolved to bestow public honors on Dominicus Pike , only hesitating whether to tar and feather him , ride him on a rail or refresh him with an ablution at the town-pump , on the top of which he had declared himself the bearer of the news .
The selectmen , by advice of the lawyer , spoke of prosecuting him for a misdemeanor in circulating unfounded reports , to the great disturbance of the peace of the commonwealth .
Nothing saved Dominicus either from mob-law or a court of justice but an eloquent appeal made by the young lady in his behalf .
Addressing a few words of heartfelt gratitude to his benefactress , he mounted the green cart and rode out of town under a discharge of artillery from the schoolboys , who found plenty of ammunition in the neighboring clay-pits and mud-holes .
As he turned his head to exchange a farewell glance with Mr. Higginbotham 's niece a ball of the consistence of hasty-pudding hit him slap in the mouth , giving him a most grim aspect .
His whole person was so bespattered with the like filthy missiles that he had almost a mind to ride back and supplicate for the threatened ablution at the town-pump ; for , though not meant in kindness , it would now have been a deed of charity .
However , the sun shone bright on poor Dominicus , and the mud -- an emblem of all stains of undeserved opprobrium -- was easily brushed off when dry .
Being a funny rogue , his heart soon cheered up ; nor could he refrain from a hearty laugh at the uproar which his story had excited .
The handbills of the selectmen would cause the commitment of all the vagabonds in the State , the paragraph in the Parker 's Falls Gazette would be reprinted from Maine to Florida , and perhaps form an item in the London newspapers , and many a miser would tremble for his moneybags and life on learning the catastrophe of Mr. Higginbotham .
The pedler meditated with much fervor on the charms of the young schoolmistress , and swore that Daniel Webster never spoke nor looked so like an angel as Miss Higginbotham while defending him from the wrathful populace at Parker 's Falls .
Dominicus was now on the Kimballton turnpike , having all along determined to visit that place , though business had drawn , him out of the most direct road from Morristown .
As he approached the scene of the supposed murder he continued to revolve the circumstances in his mind , and was astonished at the aspect which the whole case assumed .
Had nothing occurred to corroborate the story of the first traveller , it might now have been considered as a hoax ; but the yellow man was evidently acquainted either with the report or the fact , and there was a mystery in his dismayed and guilty look on being abruptly questioned .
When to this singular combination of incidents it was added that the rumor tallied exactly with Mr. Higginbotham 's character and habits of life , and that he had an orchard and a St. Michael 's pear tree , near which he always passed at nightfall , the circumstantial evidence appeared so strong that Dominicus doubted whether the autograph produced by the lawyer , or even the niece 's direct testimony , ought to be equivalent .
Making cautious inquiries along the road , the pedler further learned that Mr. Higginbotham had in his service an Irishman of doubtful character whom he had hired without a recommendation , on the score of economy .
`` May I be hanged myself , '' exclaimed Dominicus Pike , aloud , on reaching the top of a lonely hill , `` if I 'll believe old Higginbotham is unhanged till I see him with my own eyes and hear it from his own mouth .
And , as he 's a real shaver , I 'll have the minister , or some other responsible man , for an endorser . ''
It was growing dusk when he reached the toll-house on Kimballton turnpike , about a quarter of a mile from the village of this name .
His little mare was fast bringing him up with a man on horseback who trotted through the gate a few rods in advance of him , nodded to the toll-gatherer and kept on towards the village .
Dominicus was acquainted with the toll-man , and while making change the usual remarks on the weather passed between them .
`` I suppose , '' said the pedler , throwing back his whiplash to bring it down like a feather on the mare 's flank , `` you have not seen anything of old Mr. Higginbotham within a day or two ? ''
`` Yes , '' answered the toll-gatherer ; `` he passed the gate just before you drove up , and yonder he rides now , if you can see him through the dusk .
He 's been to Woodfield this afternoon , attending a sheriff 's sale there .
The old man generally shakes hands and has a little chat with me , but to-night he nodded , as if to say , ` Charge my toll , ' and jogged on ; for , wherever he goes , he must always be at home by eight o'clock . ''
`` So they tell me , '' said Dominicus .
`` I never saw a man look so yellow and thin as the squire does , '' continued the toll-gatherer .
`` Says I to myself tonight , ` He 's more like a ghost or an old mummy than good flesh and blood . ' ''
The pedler strained his eyes through the twilight , and could just discern the horseman now far ahead on the village road .
He seemed to recognize the rear of Mr. Higginbotham , but through the evening shadows and amid the dust from the horse 's feet the figure appeared dim and unsubstantial , as if the shape of the mysterious old man were faintly moulded of darkness and gray light .
Dominicus shivered .
`` Mr. Higginbotham has come back from the other world by way of the Kimballton turnpike , '' thought he .
He shook the reins and rode forward , keeping about the same distance in the rear of the gray old shadow till the latter was concealed by a bend of the road .
On reaching this point the pedler no longer saw the man on horseback , but found himself at the head of the village street , not far from a number of stores and two taverns clustered round the meeting-house steeple .
On his left was a stone wall and a gate , the boundary of a wood-lot beyond which lay an orchard , farther still a mowing-field , and last of all a house .
These were the premises of Mr. Higginbotham , whose dwelling stood beside the old highway , but had been left in the background by the Kimballton turnpike .
Dominicus knew the place , and the little mare stopped short by instinct , for he was not conscious of tightening the reins .
`` For the soul of me , I can not get by this gate ! ''
said he , trembling .
`` I never shall be my own man again till I see whether Mr. Higginbotham is hanging on the St. Michael 's pear tree . ''
He leaped from the cart , gave the rein a turn round the gate-post , and ran along the green path of the wood-lot as if Old Nick were chasing behind .
Just then the village clock tolled eight , and as each deep stroke fell Dominicus gave a fresh bound and flew faster than before , till , dim in the solitary centre of the orchard , he saw the fated pear tree .
One great branch stretched from the old contorted trunk across the path and threw the darkest shadow on that one spot .
But something seemed to struggle beneath the branch .
The pedler had never pretended to more courage than befits a man of peaceable occupation , nor could he account for his valor on this awful emergency .
Certain it is , however , that he rushed forward , prostrated a sturdy Irishman with the butt-end of his whip , and found -- not , indeed , hanging on the St. Michael 's pear tree , but trembling beneath it with a halter round his neck -- the old identical Mr. Higginbotham .
`` Mr. Higginbotham , '' said Dominicus , tremulously , `` you 're an honest man , and I 'll take your word for it .
Have you been hanged , or not ? ''
If the riddle be not already guessed , a few words will explain the simple machinery by which this `` coming event '' was made to cast its `` shadow before . ''
Three men had plotted the robbery and murder of Mr. Higginbotham ; two of them successively lost courage and fled , each delaying the crime one night by their disappearance ; the third was in the act of perpetration , when a champion , blindly obeying the call of fate , like the heroes of old romance , appeared in the person of Dominicus Pike .
It only remains to say that Mr. Higginbotham took the pedler into high favor , sanctioned his addresses to the pretty schoolmistress and settled his whole property on their children , allowing themselves the interest .
In due time the old gentleman capped the climax of his favors by dying a Christian death in bed ; since which melancholy event , Dominicus Pike has removed from Kimballton and established a large tobacco-manufactory in my native village .
LITTLE ANNIE 'S RAMBLE .
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
The town-crier has rung his bell at a distant corner , and little Annie stands on her father 's doorsteps trying to hear what the man with the loud voice is talking about .
Let me listen too .
Oh , he is telling the people that an elephant and a lion and a royal tiger and a horse with horns , and other strange beasts from foreign countries , have come to town and will receive all visitors who choose to wait upon them .
Perhaps little Annie would like to go ?
Yes , and I can see that the pretty child is weary of this wide and pleasant street with the green trees flinging their shade across the quiet sunshine and the pavements and the sidewalks all as clean as if the housemaid had just swept them with her broom .
She feels that impulse to go strolling away -- that longing after the mystery of the great world -- which many children feel , and which I felt in my childhood .
Little Annie shall take a ramble with me .
See !
I do but hold out my hand , and like some bright bird in the sunny air , with her blue silk frock fluttering upward from her white pantalets , she comes bounding on tiptoe across the street .
Smooth back your brown curls , Annie , and let me tie on your bonnet , and we will set forth .
What a strange couple to go on their rambles together !
One walks in black attire , with a measured step and a heavy brow and his thoughtful eyes bent down , while the gay little girl trips lightly along as if she were forced to keep hold of my hand lest her feet should dance away from the earth .
Yet there is sympathy between us .
If I pride myself on anything , it is because I have a smile that children love ; and , on the other hand , there are few grown ladies that could entice me from the side of little Annie , for I delight to let my mind go hand in hand with the mind of a sinless child .
So come , Annie ; but if I moralize as we go , do not listen to me : only look about you and be merry .
Now we turn the corner .
Here are hacks with two horses and stage-coaches with four thundering to meet each other , and trucks and carts moving at a slower pace , being heavily laden with barrels from the wharves ; and here are rattling gigs which perhaps will be smashed to pieces before our eyes .
Hitherward , also , comes a man trundling a wheelbarrow along the pavement .
Is not little Annie afraid of such a tumult ?
No ; she does not even shrink closer to my side , but passes on with fearless confidence , a happy child amidst a great throng of grown people who pay the same reverence to her infancy that they would to extreme old age .
Nobody jostles her : all turn aside to make way for little Annie ; and , what is most singular , she appears conscious of her claim to such respect .
Now her eyes brighten with pleasure .
A street-musician has seated himself on the steps of yonder church and pours forth his strains to the busy town -- a melody that has gone astray among the tramp of footsteps , the buzz of voices and the war of passing wheels .
Who heeds the poor organ-grinder ?
None but myself and little Annie , whose feet begin to move in unison with the lively tune , as if she were loth that music should be wasted without a dance .
But where would Annie find a partner ?
Some have the gout in their toes or the rheumatism in their joints ; some are stiff with age , some feeble with disease ; some are so lean that their bones would rattle , and others of such ponderous size that their agility would crack the flagstones ; but many , many have leaden feet because their hearts are far heavier than lead .
It is a sad thought that I have chanced upon .
What a company of dancers should we be !
For I too am a gentleman of sober footsteps , and therefore , little Annie , let us walk sedately on .
It is a question with me whether this giddy child or my sage self have most pleasure in looking at the shop-windows .
We love the silks of sunny hue that glow within the darkened premises of the spruce dry-goods men ; we are pleasantly dazzled by the burnished silver and the chased gold , the rings of wedlock and the costly love-ornaments , glistening at the window of the jeweller ; but Annie , more than I , seeks for a glimpse of her passing figure in the dusty looking-glasses at the hardware-stores .
All that is bright and gay attracts us both .
Here is a shop to which the recollections of my boyhood as well as present partialities give a peculiar magic .
How delightful to let the fancy revel on the dainties of a confectioner -- those pies with such white and flaky paste , their contents being a mystery , whether rich mince with whole plums intermixed , or piquant apple delicately rose-flavored ; those cakes , heart-shaped or round , piled in a lofty pyramid ; those sweet little circlets sweetly named kisses ; those dark majestic masses fit to be bridal-loaves at the wedding of an heiress , mountains in size , their summits deeply snow-covered with sugar !
Then the mighty treasures of sugarplums , white and crimson and yellow , in large glass vases , and candy of all varieties , and those little cockles -- or whatever they are called -- much prized by children for their sweetness , and more for the mottoes which they enclose , by love-sick maids and bachelors !
Oh , my mouth waters , little Annie , and so doth yours , but we will not be tempted except to an imaginary feast ; so let us hasten onward devouring the vision of a plum-cake .
Here are pleasures , as some people would say , of a more exalted kind , in the window of a bookseller .
Is Annie a literary lady ?
Yes ; she is deeply read in Peter Parley 's tomes and has an increasing love for fairy-tales , though seldom met with nowadays , and she will subscribe next year to the Juvenile Miscellany .
But , truth to tell , she is apt to turn away from the printed page and keep gazing at the pretty pictures , such as the gay-colored ones which make this shop-window the continual loitering-place of children .
What would Annie think if , in the book which I mean to send her on New Year 's day , she should find her sweet little self bound up in silk or morocco with gilt edges , there to remain till she become a woman grown with children of her own to read about their mother 's childhood ?
That would be very queer .
Little Annie is weary of pictures and pulls me onward by the hand , till suddenly we pause at the most wondrous shop in all the town .
Oh , my stars !
Is this a toyshop , or is it fairy-land ?
For here are gilded chariots in which the king and queen of the fairies might ride side by side , while their courtiers on these small horses should gallop in triumphal procession before and behind the royal pair .
Here , too , are dishes of chinaware fit to be the dining-set of those same princely personages when they make a regal banquet in the stateliest hall of their palace -- full five feet high -- and behold their nobles feasting adown the long perspective of the table .
Betwixt the king and queen should sit my little Annie , the prettiest fairy of them all .
Here stands a turbaned Turk threatening us with his sabre , like an ugly heathen as he is , and next a Chinese mandarin who nods his head at Annie and myself .
Here we may review a whole army of horse and foot in red-and-blue uniforms , with drums , fifes , trumpets , and all kinds of noiseless music ; they have halted on the shelf of this window after their weary march from Liliput .
But what cares Annie for soldiers ?
No conquering queen is she -- neither a Semiramis nor a Catharine ; her whole heart is set upon that doll who gazes at us with such a fashionable stare .
This is the little girl 's true plaything .
Though made of wood , a doll is a visionary and ethereal personage endowed by childish fancy with a peculiar life ; the mimic lady is a heroine of romance , an actor and a sufferer in a thousand shadowy scenes , the chief inhabitant of that wild world with which children ape the real one .
Little Annie does not understand what I am saying , but looks wishfully at the proud lady in the window .
We will invite her home with us as we return .
-- Meantime , good-bye , Dame Doll !
A toy yourself , you look forth from your window upon many ladies that are also toys , though they walk and speak , and upon a crowd in pursuit of toys , though they wear grave visages .
Oh , with your never-closing eyes , had you but an intellect to moralize on all that flits before them , what a wise doll would you be !
-- Come , little Annie , we shall find toys enough , go where we may .
Now we elbow our way among the throng again .
It is curious in the most crowded part of a town to meet with living creatures that had their birthplace in some far solitude , but have acquired a second nature in the wilderness of men .
Look up , Annie , at that canary-bird hanging out of the window in his cage .
Poor little fellow !
His golden feathers are all tarnished in this smoky sunshine ; he would have glistened twice as brightly among the summer islands , but still he has become a citizen in all his tastes and habits , and would not sing half so well without the uproar that drowns his music .
What a pity that he does not know how miserable he is !
There is a parrot , too , calling out , `` Pretty Poll !
Pretty Poll ! ''
as we pass by .
Foolish bird , to be talking about her prettiness to strangers , especially as she is not a pretty Poll , though gaudily dressed in green and yellow !
If she had said `` Pretty Annie ! ''
there would have been some sense in it .
See that gray squirrel at the door of the fruit-shop whirling round and round so merrily within his wire wheel !
Being condemned to the treadmill , he makes it an amusement .
Admirable philosophy !
Here comes a big , rough dog -- a countryman 's dog -- in search of his master , smelling at everybody 's heels and touching little Annie 's hand with his cold nose , but hurrying away , though she would fain have patted him .
-- Success to your search , Fidelity !
-- And there sits a great yellow cat upon a window-sill , a very corpulent and comfortable cat , gazing at this transitory world with owl 's eyes , and making pithy comments , doubtless , or what appear such , to the silly beast .
-- Oh , sage puss , make room for me beside you , and we will be a pair of philosophers .
Here we see something to remind us of the town-crier and his ding-dong-bell .
Look !
look at that great cloth spread out in the air , pictured all over with wild beasts , as if they had met together to choose a king , according to their custom in the days of sop .
But they are choosing neither a king nor a President , else we should hear a most horrible snarling !
They have come from the deep woods and the wild mountains and the desert sands and the polar snows only to do homage to my little Annie .
As we enter among them the great elephant makes us a bow in the best style of elephantine courtesy , bending lowly down his mountain bulk , with trunk abased and leg thrust out behind .
Annie returns the salute , much to the gratification of the elephant , who is certainly the best-bred monster in the caravan .
The lion and the lioness are busy with two beef-bones .
The royal tiger , the beautiful , the untamable , keeps pacing his narrow cage with a haughty step , unmindful of the spectators or recalling the fierce deeds of his former life , when he was wont to leap forth upon such inferior animals from the jungles of Bengal .
Here we see the very same wolf -- do not go near him , Annie !
-- the selfsame wolf that devoured little Red Riding-Hood and her grandmother .
In the next cage a hyena from Egypt who has doubtless howled around the pyramids and a black bear from our own forests are fellow-prisoners and most excellent friends .
Are there any two living creatures who have so few sympathies that they can not possibly be friends ?
Here sits a great white bear whom common observers would call a very stupid beast , though I perceive him to be only absorbed in contemplation ; he is thinking of his voyages on an iceberg , and of his comfortable home in the vicinity of the north pole , and of the little cubs whom he left rolling in the eternal snows .
In fact , he is a bear of sentiment .
But oh those unsentimental monkeys !
The ugly , grinning , aping , chattering , ill-natured , mischievous and queer little brutes !
Annie does not love the monkeys ; their ugliness shocks her pure , instinctive delicacy of taste and makes her mind unquiet because it bears a wild and dark resemblance to humanity .
But here is a little pony just big enough for Annie to ride , and round and round he gallops in a circle , keeping time with his trampling hoofs to a band of music .
And here , with a laced coat and a cocked hat , and a riding-whip in his hand -- here comes a little gentleman small enough to be king of the fairies and ugly enough to be king of the gnomes , and takes a flying leap into the saddle .
Merrily , merrily plays the music , and merrily gallops the pony , and merrily rides the little old gentleman .
-- Come , Annie , into the street again ; perchance we may see monkeys on horseback there .
Mercy on us !
What a noisy world we quiet people live in !
Did Annie ever read the cries of London city ?
With what lusty lungs doth yonder man proclaim that his wheelbarrow is full of lobsters !
Here comes another , mounted on a cart and blowing a hoarse and dreadful blast from a tin horn , as much as to say , `` Fresh fish ! ''
And hark !
a voice on high , like that of a muezzin from the summit of a mosque , announcing that some chimney-sweeper has emerged from smoke and soot and darksome caverns into the upper air .
What cares the world for that ?
But , well-a-day , we hear a shrill voice of affliction -- the scream of a little child , rising louder with every repetition of that smart , sharp , slapping sound produced by an open hand on tender flesh .
Annie sympathizes , though without experience of such direful woe .
Lo !
the town-crier again , with some new secret for the public ear .
Will he tell us of an auction , or of a lost pocket-book or a show of beautiful wax figures , or of some monstrous beast more horrible than any in the caravan ?
I guess the latter .
See how he uplifts the bell in his right hand and shakes it slowly at first , then with a hurried motion , till the clapper seems to strike both sides at once , and the sounds are scattered forth in quick succession far and near .
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Ding-dong !
Now he raises his clear loud voice above all the din of the town .
It drowns the buzzing talk of many tongues and draws each man 's mind from his own business ; it rolls up and down the echoing street , and ascends to the hushed chamber of the sick , and penetrates downward to the cellar kitchen where the hot cook turns from the fire to listen .
Who of all that address the public ear , whether in church or court-house or hall of state , has such an attentive audience as the town-crier !
What saith the people 's orator ?
`` Strayed from her home , a LITTLE GIRL of five years old , in a blue silk frock and white pantalets , with brown curling hair and hazel eyes .
Whoever will bring her back to her afflicted mother -- '' Stop , stop , town-crier !
The lost is found .
-- Oh , my pretty Annie , we forgot to tell your mother of our ramble , and she is in despair and has sent the town-crier to bellow up and down the streets , affrighting old and young , for the loss of a little girl who has not once let go my hand ?
Well , let us hasten homeward ; and as we go forget not to thank Heaven , my Annie , that after wandering a little way into the world you may return at the first summons with an untainted and unwearied heart , and be a happy child again .
But I have gone too far astray for the town-crier to call me back .
Sweet has been the charm of childhood on my spirit throughout my ramble with little Annie .
Say not that it has been a waste of precious moments , an idle matter , a babble of childish talk and a reverie of childish imaginations about topics unworthy of a grown man 's notice .
Has it been merely this ?
Not so -- not so .
They are not truly wise who would affirm it .
As the pure breath of children revives the life of aged men , so is our moral nature revived by their free and simple thoughts , their native feeling , their airy mirth for little cause or none , their grief soon roused and soon allayed .
Their influence on us is at least reciprocal with ours on them .
When our infancy is almost forgotten and our boyhood long departed , though it seems but as yesterday , when life settles darkly down upon us and we doubt whether to call ourselves young any more , -- then it is good to steal away from the society of bearded men , and even of gentler woman , and spend an hour or two with children .
After drinking from those fountains of still fresh existence we shall return into the crowd , as I do now , to struggle onward and do our part in life -- perhaps as fervently as ever , but for a time with a kinder and purer heart and a spirit more lightly wise .
All this by thy sweet magic , dear little Annie !
WAKEFIELD .
In some old magazine or newspaper I recollect a story , told as truth , of a man -- let us call him Wakefield -- who absented himself for a long time from his wife .
The fact , thus abstractedly stated , is not very uncommon , nor , without a proper distinction of circumstances , to be condemned either as naughty or nonsensical .
Howbeit , this , though far from the most aggravated , is perhaps the strangest instance on record of marital delinquency , and , moreover , as remarkable a freak as may be found in the whole list of human oddities .
The wedded couple lived in London .
The man , under pretence of going a journey , took lodgings in the next street to his own house , and there , unheard of by his wife or friends and without the shadow of a reason for such self-banishment , dwelt upward of twenty years .
During that period he beheld his home every day , and frequently the forlorn Mrs. Wakefield .
And after so great a gap in his matrimonial felicity -- when his death was reckoned certain , his estate settled , his name dismissed from memory and his wife long , long ago resigned to her autumnal widowhood -- he entered the door one evening quietly as from a day 's absence , and became a loving spouse till death .
This outline is all that I remember .
But the incident , though of the purest originality , unexampled , and probably never to be repeated , is one , I think , which appeals to the general sympathies of mankind .
We know , each for himself , that none of us would perpetrate such a folly , yet feel as if some other might .
To my own contemplations , at least , it has often recurred , always exciting wonder , but with a sense that the story must be true and a conception of its hero 's character .
Whenever any subject so forcibly affects the mind , time is well spent in thinking of it .
If the reader choose , let him do his own meditation ; or if he prefer to ramble with me through the twenty years of Wakefield 's vagary , I bid him welcome , trusting that there will be a pervading spirit and a moral , even should we fail to find them , done up neatly and condensed into the final sentence .
Thought has always its efficacy and every striking incident its moral .
What sort of a man was Wakefield ?
We are free to shape out our own idea and call it by his name .
He was now in the meridian of life ; his matrimonial affections , never violent , were sobered into a calm , habitual sentiment ; of all husbands , he was likely to be the most constant , because a certain sluggishness would keep his heart at rest wherever it might be placed .
He was intellectual , but not actively so ; his mind occupied itself in long and lazy musings that tended to no purpose or had not vigor to attain it ; his thoughts were seldom so energetic as to seize hold of words .
Imagination , in the proper meaning of the term , made no part of Wakefield 's gifts .
With a cold but not depraved nor wandering heart , and a mind never feverish with riotous thoughts nor perplexed with originality , who could have anticipated that our friend would entitle himself to a foremost place among the doers of eccentric deeds ?
Had his acquaintances been asked who was the man in London the surest to perform nothing to-day which should be remembered on the morrow , they would have thought of Wakefield .
Only the wife of his bosom might have hesitated .
She , without having analyzed his character , was partly aware of a quiet selfishness that had rusted into his inactive mind ; of a peculiar sort of vanity , the most uneasy attribute about him ; of a disposition to craft which had seldom produced more positive effects than the keeping of petty secrets hardly worth revealing ; and , lastly , of what she called a little strangeness sometimes in the good man .
This latter quality is indefinable , and perhaps non-existent .
Let us now imagine Wakefield bidding adieu to his wife .
It is the dusk of an October evening .
His equipment is a drab greatcoat , a hat covered with an oil-cloth , top-boots , an umbrella in one hand and a small portmanteau in the other .
He has informed Mrs. Wakefield that he is to take the night-coach into the country .
She would fain inquire the length of his journey , its object and the probable time of his return , but , indulgent to his harmless love of mystery , interrogates him only by a look .
He tells her not to expect him positively by the return-coach nor to be alarmed should he tarry three or four days , but , at all events , to look for him at supper on Friday evening .
Wakefield , himself , be it considered , has no suspicion of what is before him .
He holds out his hand ; she gives her own and meets his parting kiss in the matter-of-course way of a ten years ' matrimony , and forth goes the middle-aged Mr. Wakefield , almost resolved to perplex his good lady by a whole week 's absence .
After the door has closed behind him , she perceives it thrust partly open and a vision of her husband 's face through the aperture , smiling on her and gone in a moment .
For the time this little incident is dismissed without a thought , but long afterward , when she has been more years a widow than a wife , that smile recurs and flickers across all her reminiscences of Wakefield 's visage .
In her many musings she surrounds the original smile with a multitude of fantasies which make it strange and awful ; as , for instance , if she imagines him in a coffin , that parting look is frozen on his pale features ; or if she dreams of him in heaven , still his blessed spirit wears a quiet and crafty smile .
Yet for its sake , when all others have given him up for dead , she sometimes doubts whether she is a widow .
But our business is with the husband .
We must hurry after him along the street ere he lose his individuality and melt into the great mass of London life .
It would be vain searching for him there .
Let us follow close at his heels , therefore , until , after several superfluous turns and doublings , we find him comfortably established by the fireside of a small apartment previously bespoken .
He is in the next street to his own and at his journey 's end .
He can scarcely trust his good-fortune in having got thither unperceived , recollecting that at one time he was delayed by the throng in the very focus of a lighted lantern , and again there were footsteps that seemed to tread behind his own , distinct from the multitudinous tramp around him , and anon he heard a voice shouting afar and fancied that it called his name .
Doubtless a dozen busybodies had been watching him and told his wife the whole affair .
Poor Wakefield !
little knowest thou thine own insignificance in this great world .
No mortal eye but mine has traced thee .
Go quietly to thy bed , foolish man , and on the morrow , if thou wilt be wise , get thee home to good Mrs. Wakefield and tell her the truth .
Remove not thyself even for a little week from thy place in her chaste bosom .
Were she for a single moment to deem thee dead or lost or lastingly divided from her , thou wouldst be woefully conscious of a change in thy true wife for ever after .
It is perilous to make a chasm in human affections -- not that they gape so long and wide , but so quickly close again .
Almost repenting of his frolic , or whatever it may be termed , Wakefield lies down betimes , and , starting from his first nap , spreads forth his arms into the wide and solitary waste of the unaccustomed bed , `` No , '' thinks he , gathering the bedclothes about him ; `` I will not sleep alone another night . ''
In the morning he rises earlier than usual and sets himself to consider what he really means to do .
Such are his loose and rambling modes of thought that he has taken this very singular step with the consciousness of a purpose , indeed , but without being able to define it sufficiently for his own contemplation .
The vagueness of the project and the convulsive effort with which he plunges into the execution of it are equally characteristic of a feeble-minded man .
Wakefield sifts his ideas , however , as minutely as he may , and finds himself curious to know the progress of matters at home -- how his exemplary wife will endure her widowhood of a week , and , briefly , how the little sphere of creatures and circumstances in which he was a central object will be affected by his removal .
A morbid vanity , therefore , lies nearest the bottom of the affair .
But how is he to attain his ends ?
Not , certainly , by keeping close in this comfortable lodging , where , though he slept and awoke in the next street to his home , he is as effectually abroad as if the stage-coach had been whirling him away all night .
Yet should he reappear , the whole project is knocked in the head .
His poor brains being hopelessly puzzled with this dilemma , he at length ventures out , partly resolving to cross the head of the street and send one hasty glance toward his forsaken domicile .
Habit -- for he is a man of habits -- takes him by the hand and guides him , wholly unaware , to his own door , where , just at the critical moment , he is aroused by the scraping of his foot upon the step .
-- Wakefield , whither are you going ?
At that instant his fate was turning on the pivot .
Little dreaming of the doom to which his first backward step devotes him , he hurries away , breathless with agitation hitherto unfelt , and hardly dares turn his head at the distant corner .
Can it be that nobody caught sight of him ?
Will not the whole household -- the decent Mrs. Wakefield , the smart maid-servant and the dirty little footboy -- raise a hue-and-cry through London streets in pursuit of their fugitive lord and master ?
Wonderful escape !
He gathers courage to pause and look homeward , but is perplexed with a sense of change about the familiar edifice such as affects us all when , after a separation of months or years , we again see some hill or lake or work of art with which we were friends of old .
In ordinary cases this indescribable impression is caused by the comparison and contrast between our imperfect reminiscences and the reality .
In Wakefield the magic of a single night has wrought a similar transformation , because in that brief period a great moral change has been effected .
But this is a secret from himself .
Before leaving the spot he catches a far and momentary glimpse of his wife passing athwart the front window with her face turned toward the head of the street .
The crafty nincompoop takes to his heels , scared with the idea that among a thousand such atoms of mortality her eye must have detected him .
Right glad is his heart , though his brain be somewhat dizzy , when he finds himself by the coal-fire of his lodgings .
So much for the commencement of this long whim-wham .
After the initial conception and the stirring up of the man 's sluggish temperament to put it in practice , the whole matter evolves itself in a natural train .
We may suppose him , as the result of deep deliberation , buying a new wig of reddish hair and selecting sundry garments , in a fashion unlike his customary suit of brown , from a Jew 's old-clothes bag .
It is accomplished : Wakefield is another man .
The new system being now established , a retrograde movement to the old would be almost as difficult as the step that placed him in his unparalleled position .
Furthermore , he is rendered obstinate by a sulkiness occasionally incident to his temper and brought on at present by the inadequate sensation which he conceives to have been produced in the bosom of Mrs. Wakefield .
He will not go back until she be frightened half to death .
Well , twice or thrice has she passed before his sight , each time with a heavier step , a paler cheek and more anxious brow , and in the third week of his non-appearance he detects a portent of evil entering the house in the guise of an apothecary .
Next day the knocker is muffled .
Toward nightfall comes the chariot of a physician and deposits its big-wigged and solemn burden at Wakefield 's door , whence after a quarter of an hour 's visit he emerges , perchance the herald of a funeral .
Dear woman !
will she die ?
By this time Wakefield is excited to something like energy of feeling , but still lingers away from his wife 's bedside , pleading with his conscience that she must not be disturbed at such a juncture .
If aught else restrains him , he does not know it .
In the course of a few weeks she gradually recovers .
The crisis is over ; her heart is sad , perhaps , but quiet , and , let him return soon or late , it will never be feverish for him again .
Such ideas glimmer through the mist of Wakefield 's mind and render him indistinctly conscious that an almost impassable gulf divides his hired apartment from his former home .
`` It is but in the next street , '' he sometimes says .
Fool !
it is in another world .
Hitherto he has put off ' his return from one particular day to another ; henceforward he leaves the precise time undetermined -- not to-morrow ; probably next week ; pretty soon .
Poor man !
The dead have nearly as much chance of revisiting their earthly homes as the self-banished Wakefield .
Would that I had a folio to write , instead of an article of a dozen pages !
Then might I exemplify how an influence beyond our control lays its strong hand on every deed which we do and weaves its consequences into an iron tissue of necessity .
Wakefield is spellbound .
We must leave him for ten years or so to haunt around his house without once crossing the threshold , and to be faithful to his wife with all the affection of which his heart is capable , while he is slowly fading out of hers .
Long since , it must be remarked , he has lost the perception of singularity in his conduct .
Now for a scene .
Amid the throng of a London street we distinguish a man , now waxing elderly , with few characteristics to attract careless observers , yet bearing in his whole aspect the handwriting of no common fate for such as have the skill to read it .
He is meagre ; his low and narrow forehead is deeply wrinkled ; his eyes , small and lustreless , sometimes wander apprehensively about him , but oftener seem to look inward .
He bends his head and moves with an indescribable obliquity of gait , as if unwilling to display his full front to the world .
Watch him long enough to see what we have described , and you will allow that circumstances -- which often produce remarkable men from Nature 's ordinary handiwork -- have produced one such here .
Next , leaving him to sidle along the footwalk , cast your eyes in the opposite direction , where a portly female considerably in the wane of life , with a prayer-book in her hand , is proceeding to yonder church .
She has the placid mien of settled widowhood .
Her regrets have either died away or have become so essential to her heart that they would be poorly exchanged for joy .
Just as the lean man and well-conditioned woman are passing a slight obstruction occurs and brings these two figures directly in contact .
Their hands touch ; the pressure of the crowd forces her bosom against his shoulder ; they stand face to face , staring into each other 's eyes .
After a ten years ' separation thus Wakefield meets his wife .
The throng eddies away and carries them asunder .
The sober widow , resuming her former pace , proceeds to church , but pauses in the portal and throws a perplexed glance along the street .
She passes in , however , opening her prayer-book as she goes .
And the man ?
With so wild a face that busy and selfish London stands to gaze after him he hurries to his lodgings , bolts the door and throws himself upon the bed .
The latent feelings of years break out ; his feeble mind acquires a brief energy from their strength ; all the miserable strangeness of his life is revealed to him at a glance , and he cries out passionately , `` Wakefield , Wakefield !
You are mad ! ''
Perhaps he was so .
The singularity of his situation must have so moulded him to itself that , considered in regard to his fellow-creatures and the business of life , he could not be said to possess his right mind .
He had contrived -- or , rather , he had happened -- to dissever himself from the world , to vanish , to give up his place and privileges with living men without being admitted among the dead .
The life of a hermit is nowise parallel to his .
He was in the bustle of the city as of old , but the crowd swept by and saw him not ; he was , we may figuratively say , always beside his wife and at his hearth , yet must never feel the warmth of the one nor the affection of the other .
It was Wakefield 's unprecedented fate to retain his original share of human sympathies and to be still involved in human interests , while he had lost his reciprocal influence on them .
It would be a most curious speculation to trace out the effect of such circumstances on his heart and intellect separately and in unison .
Yet , changed as he was , he would seldom be conscious of it , but deem himself the same man as ever ; glimpses of the truth , indeed , would come , but only for the moment , and still he would keep saying , `` I shall soon go back , '' nor reflect that he had been saying so for twenty years .
I conceive , also , that these twenty years would appear in the retrospect scarcely longer than the week to which Wakefield had at first limited his absence .
He would look on the affair as no more than an interlude in the main business of his life .
When , after a little while more , he should deem it time to re-enter his parlor , his wife would clap her hands for joy on beholding the middle-aged Mr. Wakefield .
Alas , what a mistake !
Would Time but await the close of our favorite follies , we should be young men -- all of us -- and till Doomsday .
One evening , in the twentieth year since he vanished , Wakefield is taking his customary walk toward the dwelling which he still calls his own .
It is a gusty night of autumn , with frequent showers that patter down upon the pavement and are gone before a man can put up his umbrella .
Pausing near the house , Wakefield discerns through the parlor-windows of the second floor the red glow and the glimmer and fitful flash of a comfortable fire .
On the ceiling appears a grotesque shadow of good Mrs. Wakefield .
The cap , the nose and chin and the broad waist form an admirable caricature , which dances , moreover , with the up-flickering and down-sinking blaze almost too merrily for the shade of an elderly widow .
At this instant a shower chances to fall , and is driven by the unmannerly gust full into Wakefield 's face and bosom .
He is quite penetrated with its autumnal chill .
Shall he stand wet and shivering here , when his own hearth has a good fire to warm him and his own wife will run to fetch the gray coat and small-clothes which doubtless she has kept carefully in the closet of their bedchamber ?
No ; Wakefield is no such fool .
He ascends the steps -- heavily , for twenty years have stiffened his legs since he came down , but he knows it not .
-- Stay , Wakefield !
Would you go to the sole home that is left you ?
Then step into your grave .
-- The door opens .
As he passes in we have a parting glimpse of his visage , and recognize the crafty smile which was the precursor of the little joke that he has ever since been playing off at his wife 's expense .
How unmercifully has he quizzed the poor woman !
Well , a good night 's rest to Wakefield !
This happy event -- supposing it to be such -- could only have occurred at an unpremeditated moment .
We will not follow our friend across the threshold .
He has left us much food for thought , a portion of which shall lend its wisdom to a moral and be shaped into a figure .
Amid the seeming confusion of our mysterious world individuals are so nicely adjusted to a system , and systems to one another and to a whole , that by stepping aside for a moment a man exposes himself to a fearful risk of losing his place for ever .
Like Wakefield , he may become , as it were , the outcast of the universe .
A RILL FROM THE TOWN-PUMP .
-LRB- SCENE , the corner of two principal streets , -LSB- 1 -RSB- the TOWN-PUMP talking through its nose . -RRB-
Noon by the north clock !
Noon by the east !
High noon , too , by these hot sunbeams , which full , scarcely aslope , upon my head and almost make the water bubble and smoke in the trough under my nose .
Truly , we public characters have a tough time of it !
And among all the town-officers chosen at March meeting , where is he that sustains for a single year the burden of such manifold duties as are imposed in perpetuity upon the town-pump ?
The title of `` town-treasurer '' is rightfully mine , as guardian of the best treasure that the town has .
The overseers of the poor ought to make me their chairman , since I provide bountifully for the pauper without expense to him that pays taxes .
I am at the head of the fire department and one of the physicians to the board of health .
As a keeper of the peace all water-drinkers will confess me equal to the constable .
I perform some of the duties of the town-clerk by promulgating public notices when they are posted on my front .
To speak within bounds , I am the chief person of the municipality , and exhibit , moreover , an admirable pattern to my brother-officers by the cool , steady , upright , downright and impartial discharge of my business and the constancy with which I stand to my post .
Summer or winter , nobody seeks me in vain , for all day long I am seen at the busiest corner , just above the market , stretching out my arms to rich and poor alike , and at night I hold a lantern over my head both to show where I am and keep people out of the gutters .
At this sultry noontide I am cupbearer to the parched populace , for whose benefit an iron goblet is chained to my waist .
Like a dramseller on the mall at muster-day , I cry aloud to all and sundry in my plainest accents and at the very tiptop of my voice .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : Essex and Washington streets , Salem . -RSB-
Here it is , gentlemen !
Here is the good liquor !
Walk up , walk up , gentlemen !
Walk up , walk up !
Here is the superior stuff !
Here is the unadulterated ale of Father Adam -- better than Cognac , Hollands , Jamaica , strong beer or wine of any price ; here it is by the hogshead or the single glass , and not a cent to pay !
Walk up , gentlemen , walk up , and help yourselves !
It were a pity if all this outcry should draw no customers .
Here they come .
-- A hot day , gentlemen !
Quaff and away again , so as to keep yourselves in a nice cool sweat .
-- You , my friend , will need another cupful to wash the dust out of your throat , if it be as thick there as it is on your cowhide shoes .
I see that you have trudged half a score of miles to-day , and like a wise man have passed by the taverns and stopped at the running brooks and well-curbs .
Otherwise , betwixt heat without and fire within , you would have been burnt to a cinder or melted down to nothing at all , in the fashion of a jelly-fish .
Drink and make room for that other fellow , who seeks my aid to quench the fiery fever of last night 's potations , which he drained from no cup of mine .
-- Welcome , most rubicund sir !
You and I have been great strangers hitherto ; nor , to confess the truth , will my nose be anxious for a closer intimacy till the fumes of your breath be a little less potent .
Mercy on you , man !
the water absolutely hisses down your red-hot gullet and is converted quite to steam in the miniature Tophet which you mistake for a stomach .
Fill again , and tell me , on the word of an honest toper , did you ever , in cellar , tavern , or any kind of a dram-shop , spend the price of your children 's food for a swig half so delicious ?
Now , for the first time these ten years , you know the flavor of cold water .
Good-bye ; and whenever you are thirsty , remember that I keep a constant supply at the old stand .
-- Who next ?
-- Oh , my little friend , you are let loose from school and come hither to scrub your blooming face and drown the memory of certain taps of the ferule , and other schoolboy troubles , in a draught from the town-pump ?
Take it , pure as the current of your young life .
Take it , and may your heart and tongue never be scorched with a fiercer thirst than now !
There , my dear child !
put down the cup and yield your place to this elderly gentleman who treads so tenderly over the paving-stones that I suspect he is afraid of breaking them .
What !
he limps by without so much as thanking me , as if my hospitable offers were meant only for people who have no wine-cellars .
-- Well , well , sir , no harm done , I hope ?
Go draw the cork , tip the decanter ; but when your great toe shall set you a-roaring , it will be no affair of mine .
If gentlemen love the pleasant titillation of the gout , it is all one to the town-pump .
This thirsty dog with his red tongue lolling out does not scorn my hospitality , but stands on his hind legs and laps eagerly out of the trough .
See how lightly he capers away again !
-- Jowler , did your worship ever have the gout ?
Are you all satisfied ?
Then wipe your mouths , my good friends , and while my spout has a moment 's leisure I will delight the town with a few historical remniscences .
In far antiquity , beneath a darksome shadow of venerable boughs , a spring bubbled out of the leaf-strewn earth in the very spot where you now behold me on the sunny pavement .
The water was as bright and clear and deemed as precious as liquid diamonds .
The Indian sagamores drank of it from time immemorial till the fatal deluge of the firewater burst upon the red men and swept their whole race away from the cold fountains .
Endicott and his followers came next , and often knelt down to drink , dipping their long beards in the spring .
The richest goblet then was of birch-bark .
Governor Winthrop , after a journey afoot from Boston , drank here out of the hollow of his hand .
The elder Higginson here wet his palm and laid it on the brow of the first town-born child .
For many years it was the watering-place , and , as it were , the washbowl , of the vicinity , whither all decent folks resorted to purify their visages and gaze at them afterward -- at least , the pretty maidens did -- in the mirror which it made .
On Sabbath-days , whenever a babe was to be baptized , the sexton filled his basin here and placed it on the communion-table of the humble meeting-house , which partly covered the site of yonder stately brick one .
Thus one generation after another was consecrated to Heaven by its waters , and cast their waxing and waning shadows into its glassy bosom , and vanished from the earth , as if mortal life were but a flitting image in a fountain .
Finally the fountain vanished also .
Cellars were dug on all sides and cart-loads of gravel flung upon its source , whence oozed a turbid stream , forming a mud-puddle at the corner of two streets .
In the hot months , when its refreshment was most needed , the dust flew in clouds over the forgotten birthplace of the waters , now their grave .
But in the course of time a town-pump was sunk into the source of the ancient spring ; and when the first decayed , another took its place , and then another , and still another , till here stand I , gentlemen and ladies , to serve you with my iron goblet .
Drink and be refreshed .
The water is as pure and cold as that which slaked the thirst of the red sagamore beneath the aged boughs , though now the gem of the wilderness is treasured under these hot stones , where no shadow falls but from the brick buildings .
And be it the moral of my story that , as this wasted and long-lost fountain is now known and prized again , so shall the virtues of cold water -- too little valued since your fathers ' days -- be recognized by all .
Your pardon , good people !
I must interrupt my stream of eloquence and spout forth a stream of water to replenish the trough for this teamster and his two yoke of oxen , who have come from Topsfield , or somewhere along that way .
No part of my business is pleasanter than the watering of cattle .
Look !
how rapidly they lower the water-mark on the sides of the trough , till their capacious stomachs are moistened with a gallon or two apiece and they can afford time to breathe it in with sighs of calm enjoyment .
Now they roll their quiet eyes around the brim of their monstrous drinking-vessel .
An ox is your true toper .
But I perceive , my dear auditors , that you are impatient for the remainder of my discourse .
Impute it , I beseech you , to no defect of modesty if I insist a little longer on so fruitful a topic as my own multifarious merits .
It is altogether for your good .
The better you think of me , the better men and women you will find yourselves .
I shall say nothing of my all-important aid on washing-days , though on that account alone I might call myself the household god of a hundred families .
Far be it from me , also , to hint , my respectable friends , at the show of dirty faces which you would present without my pains to keep you clean .
Nor will I remind you how often , when the midnight bells make you tremble for your combustible town , you have fled to the town-pump and found me always at my post firm amid the confusion and ready to drain my vital current in your behalf .
Neither is it worth while to lay much stress on my claims to a medical diploma as the physician whose simple rule of practice is preferable to all the nauseous lore which has found men sick , or left them so , since the days of Hippocrates .
Let us take a broader view of my beneficial influence on mankind .
No ; these are trifles , compared with the merits which wise men concede to me -- if not in my single self , yet as the representative of a class -- of being the grand reformer of the age .
From my spout , and such spouts as mine , must flow the stream that shall cleanse our earth of the vast portion of its crime and anguish which has gushed from the fiery fountains of the still .
In this mighty enterprise the cow shall be my great confederate .
Milk and water -- the TOWN-PUMP and the Cow !
Such is the glorious copartnership that shall tear down the distilleries and brewhouses , uproot the vineyards , shatter the cider-presses , ruin the tea and coffee trade , and finally monopolize the whole business of quenching thirst .
Blessed consummation !
Then Poverty shall pass away from the land , finding no hovel so wretched where her squalid form may shelter herself .
Then Disease , for lack of other victims , shall gnaw its own heart and die .
Then Sin , if she do not die , shall lose half her strength .
Until now the frenzy of hereditary fever has raged in the human blood , transmitted from sire to son and rekindled in every generation by fresh draughts of liquid flame .
When that inward fire shall be extinguished , the heat of passion can not but grow cool , and war -- the drunkenness of nations -- perhaps will cease .
At least , there will be no war of households .
The husband and wife , drinking deep of peaceful joy -- a calm bliss of temperate affections -- shall pass hand in hand through life and lie down not reluctantly at its protracted close .
To them the past will be no turmoil of mad dreams , nor the future an eternity of such moments as follow the delirium of the drunkard .
Their dead faces shall express what their spirits were and are to be by a lingering smile of memory and hope .
Ahem !
Dry work , this speechifying , especially to an unpractised orator .
I never conceived till now what toil the temperance lecturers undergo for my sake ; hereafter they shall have the business to themselves .
-- Do , some kind Christian , pump a stroke or two , just to wet my whistle .
-- Thank you , sir !
-- My dear hearers , when the world shall have been regenerated by my instrumentality , you will collect your useless vats and liquor-casks into one great pile and make a bonfire in honor of the town-pump .
And when I shall have decayed like my predecessors , then , if you revere my memory , let a marble fountain richly sculptured take my place upon this spot .
Such monuments should be erected everywhere and inscribed with the names of the distinguished champions of my cause .
Now , listen , for something very important is to come next .
There are two or three honest friends of mine -- and true friends I know they are -- who nevertheless by their fiery pugnacity in my behalf do put me in fearful hazard of a broken nose , or even a total overthrow upon the pavement and the loss of the treasure which I guard .
-- I pray you , gentlemen , let this fault be amended .
Is it decent , think you , to get tipsy with zeal for temperance and take up the honorable cause of the town-pump in the style of a toper fighting for his brandy-bottle ?
Or can the excellent qualities of cold water be no otherwise exemplified than by plunging slapdash into hot water and woefully scalding yourselves and other people ?
Trust me , they may .
In the moral warfare which you are to wage -- and , indeed , in the whole conduct of your lives -- you can not choose a better example than myself , who have never permitted the dust and sultry atmosphere , the turbulence and manifold disquietudes , of the world around me to reach that deep , calm well of purity which may be called my soul .
And whenever I pour out that soul , it is to cool earth 's fever or cleanse its stains .
One o'clock !
Nay , then , if the dinner-bell begins to speak , I may as well hold my peace .
Here comes a pretty young girl of my acquaintance with a large stone pitcher for me to fill .
May she draw a husband while drawing her water , as Rachel did of old !
-- Hold out your vessel , my dear !
There it is , full to the brim ; so now run home , peeping at your sweet image in the pitcher as you go , and forget not in a glass of my own liquor to drink `` SUCCESS TO THE TOWN-PUMP . ''
THE GREAT CARBUNCLE .
-LSB- 1 -RSB- A MYSTERY OF THE WHITE MOUNTAINS .
At nightfall once in the olden time , on the rugged side of one of the Crystal Hills , a party of adventurers were refreshing themselves after a toilsome and fruitless quest for the Great Carbuncle .
They had come thither , not as friends nor partners in the enterprise , but each , save one youthful pair , impelled by his own selfish and solitary longing for this wondrous gem .
Their feeling of brotherhood , however , was strong enough to induce them to contribute a mutual aid in building a rude hut of branches and kindling a great fire of shattered pines that had drifted down the headlong current of the Amonoosuck , on the lower bank of which they were to pass the night .
There was but one of their number , perhaps , who had become so estranged from natural sympathies by the absorbing spell of the pursuit as to acknowledge no satisfaction at the sight of human faces in the remote and solitary region whither they had ascended .
A vast extent of wilderness lay between them and the nearest settlement , while scant a mile above their heads was that bleak verge where the hills throw off their shaggy mantle of forest-trees and either robe themselves in clouds or tower naked into the sky .
The roar of the Amonoosuck would have been too awful for endurance if only a solitary man had listened while the mountain-stream talked with the wind .
-LSB- Footnote 1 : The Indian tradition on which this somewhat extravagant tale is founded is both too wild and too beautiful to be adequately wrought up in prose .
Sullivan , in his history of Maine , written since the Revolution , remarks that even then the existence of the Great Carbuncle was not entirely discredited . -RSB-
The adventurers , therefore , exchanged hospitable greetings and welcomed one another to the hut where each man was the host and all were the guests of the whole company .
They spread their individual supplies of food on the flat surface of a rock and partook of a general repast ; at the close of which a sentiment of good-fellowship was perceptible among the party , though repressed by the idea that the renewed search for the Great Carbuncle must make them strangers again in the morning .
Seven men and one young woman , they warmed themselves together at the fire , which extended its bright wall along the whole front of their wigwam .
As they observed the various and contrasted figures that made up the assemblage , each man looking like a caricature of himself in the unsteady light that flickered over him , they came mutually to the conclusion that an odder society had never met in city or wilderness , on mountain or plain .
The eldest of the group -- a tall , lean , weatherbeaten man some sixty years of age -- was clad in the skins of wild animals whose fashion of dress he did well to imitate , since the deer , the wolf and the bear had long been his most intimate companions .
He was one of those ill-fated mortals , such as the Indians told of , whom in their early youth the Great Carbuncle smote with a peculiar madness and became the passionate dream of their existence .
All who visited that region knew him as `` the Seeker , '' and by no other name .
As none could remember when he first took up the search , there went a fable in the valley of the Saco that for his inordinate lust after the Great Carbuncle he had been condemned to wander among the mountains till the end of time , still with the same feverish hopes at sunrise , the same despair at eve .
Near this miserable Seeker sat a little elderly personage wearing a high-crowned hat shaped somewhat like a crucible .
He was from beyond the sea -- a Doctor Cacaphodel , who had wilted and dried himself into a mummy by continually stooping over charcoal-furnaces and inhaling unwholesome fumes during his researches in chemistry and alchemy .
It was told of him -- whether truly or not -- that at the commencement of his studies he had drained his body of all its richest blood and wasted it , with other inestimable ingredients , in an unsuccessful experiment , and had never been a well man since .
Another of the adventurers was Master Ichabod Pigsnort , a weighty merchant and selectman of Boston , and an elder of the famous Mr. Norton 's church .
His enemies had a ridiculous story that Master Pigsnort was accustomed to spend a whole hour after prayer-time every morning and evening in wallowing naked among an immense quantity of pine-tree shillings , which were the earliest silver coinage of Massachusetts .
The fourth whom we shall notice had no name that his companions knew of , and was chiefly distinguished by a sneer that always contorted his thin visage , and by a prodigious pair of spectacles which were supposed to deform and discolor the whole face of nature to this gentleman 's perception .
The fifth adventurer likewise lacked a name , which was the greater pity , as he appeared to be a poet .
He was a bright-eyed man , but woefully pined away , which was no more than natural if , as some people affirmed , his ordinary diet was fog , morning mist and a slice of the densest cloud within his reach , sauced with moonshine whenever he could get it .
Certain it is that the poetry which flowed from him had a smack of all these dainties .
The sixth of the party was a young man of haughty mien and sat somewhat apart from the rest , wearing his plumed hat loftily among his elders , while the fire glittered on the rich embroidery of his dress and gleamed intensely on the jewelled pommel of his sword .
This was the lord De Vere , who when at home was said to spend much of his time in the burial-vault of his dead progenitors rummaging their mouldy coffins in search of all the earthly pride and vainglory that was hidden among bones and dust ; so that , besides his own share , he had the collected haughtiness of his whole line of ancestry .
Lastly , there was a handsome youth in rustic garb , and by his side a blooming little person in whom a delicate shade of maiden reserve was just melting into the rich glow of a young wife 's affection .
Her name was Hannah , and her husband 's Matthew -- two homely names , yet well enough adapted to the simple pair who seemed strangely out of place among the whimsical fraternity whose wits had been set agog by the Great Carbuncle .
Beneath the shelter of one hut , in the bright blaze of the same fire , sat this varied group of adventurers , all so intent upon a single object that of whatever else they began to speak their closing words were sure to be illuminated with the Great Carbuncle .
Several related the circumstances that brought them thither .
One had listened to a traveller 's tale of this marvellous stone in his own distant country , and had immediately been seized with such a thirst for beholding it as could only be quenched in its intensest lustre .
Another , so long ago as when the famous Captain Smith visited these coasts , had seen it blazing far at sea , and had felt no rest in all the intervening years till now that he took up the search .
A third , being encamped on a hunting-expedition full forty miles south of the White Mountains , awoke at midnight and beheld the Great Carbuncle gleaming like a meteor , so that the shadows of the trees fell backward from it .
They spoke of the innumerable attempts which had been made to reach the spot , and of the singular fatality which had hitherto withheld success from all adventurers , though it might seem so easy to follow to its source a light that overpowered the moon and almost matched the sun .
It was observable that each smiled scornfully at the madness of every other in anticipating better fortune than the past , yet nourished a scarcely-hidden conviction that he would himself be the favored one .
As if to allay their too sanguine hopes , they recurred to the Indian traditions that a spirit kept watch about the gem and bewildered those who sought it either by removing it from peak to peak of the higher hills or by calling up a mist from the enchanted lake over which it hung .
But these tales were deemed unworthy of credit , all professing to believe that the search had been baffled by want of sagacity or perseverance in the adventurers , or such other causes as might naturally obstruct the passage to any given point among the intricacies of forest , valley and mountain .
In a pause of the conversation the wearer of the prodigious spectacles looked round upon the party , making each individual in turn the object of the sneer which invariably dwelt upon his countenance .
`` So , fellow-pilgrims , '' said he , `` here we are , seven wise men and one fair damsel , who doubtless is as wise as any graybeard of the company .
Here we are , I say , all bound on the same goodly enterprise .
Methinks , now , it were not amiss that each of us declare what he proposes to do with the Great Carbuncle , provided he have the good hap to clutch it .
-- What says our friend in the bearskin ?
How mean you , good sir , to enjoy the prize which you have been seeking the Lord knows how long among the Crystal Hills ? ''
`` How enjoy it ! ''
exclaimed the aged Seeker , bitterly .
`` I hope for no enjoyment from it : that folly has past long ago .
I keep up the search for this accursed stone because the vain ambition of my youth has become a fate upon me in old age .
The pursuit alone is my strength , the energy of my soul , the warmth of my blood and the pith and marrow of my bones .
Were I to turn my back upon it , I should fall down dead on the hither side of the notch which is the gateway of this mountain-region .
Yet not to have my wasted lifetime back again would I give up my hopes of is deemed little better than a traffic with the evil one .
Now , think ye that I would have done this grievous wrong to my soul , body , reputation and estate without a reasonable chance of profit ? ''
`` Not I , pious Master Pigsnort , '' said the man with the spectacles .
`` I never laid such a great folly to thy charge . ''
`` Truly , I hope not , '' said the merchant .
`` Now , as touching this Great Carbuncle , I am free to own that I have never had a glimpse of it , but , be it only the hundredth part so bright as people tell , it will surely outvalue the Great Mogul 's best diamond , which he holds at an incalculable sum ; wherefore I am minded to put the Great Carbuncle on shipboard and voyage with it to England , France , Spain , Italy , or into heathendom if Providence should send me thither , and , in a word , dispose of the gem to the best bidder among the potentates of the earth , that he may place it among his crown-jewels .
If any of ye have a wiser plan , let him expound it . ''
`` That have I , thou sordid man ! ''
exclaimed the poet .
`` Dost thou desire nothing brighter than gold , that thou wouldst transmute all this ethereal lustre into such dross as thou wallowest in already ?
For myself , hiding the jewel under my cloak , I shall hie me back to my attic-chamber in one of the darksome alleys of London .
There night and day will I gaze upon it .
My soul shall drink its radiance ; it shall be diffused throughout my intellectual powers and gleam brightly in every line of poesy that I indite .
Thus long ages after I am gone the splendor of the Great Carbuncle will blaze around my name . ''
`` Well said , Master Poet ! ''
cried he of the spectacles .
`` Hide it under thy cloak , sayest thou ?
Why , it will gleam through the holes and make thee look like a jack-o ' - lantern ! ''
`` To think , '' ejaculated the lord De Vere , rather to himself than his companions , the best of whom he held utterly unworthy of his intercourse -- `` to think that a fellow in a tattered cloak should talk of conveying the Great Carbuncle to a garret in Grubb street !
Have not I resolved within myself that the whole earth contains no fitter ornament for the great hall of my ancestral castle ?
There shall it flame for ages , making a noonday of midnight , glittering on the suits of armor , the banners and escutcheons , that hang around the wall , and keeping bright the memory of heroes .
Wherefore have all other adventurers sought the prize in vain but that I might win it and make it a symbol of the glories of our lofty line ?
And never on the diadem of the White Mountains did the Great Carbuncle hold a place half so honored as is reserved for it in the hall of the De Veres . ''
`` It is a noble thought , '' said the cynic , with an obsequious sneer .
`` Yet , might I presume to say so , the gem would make a rare sepulchral lamp , and would display the glories of Your Lordship 's progenitors more truly in the ancestral vault than in the castle-hall . ''
`` Nay , forsooth , '' observed Matthew , the young rustic , who sat hand in hand with his bride , `` the gentleman has bethought himself of a profitable use for this bright stone .
Hannah here and I are seeking it for a like purpose . ''
`` How , fellow ? ''
exclaimed His Lordship , in surprise .
`` What castle-hall hast thou to hang it in ? ''
`` No castle , '' replied Matthew , `` but as neat a cottage as any within sight of the Crystal Hills .
Ye must know , friends , that Hannah and I , being wedded the last week , have taken up the search of the Great Carbuncle because we shall need its light in the long winter evenings and it will be such a pretty thing to show the neighbors when they visit us !
It will shine through the house , so that we may pick up a pin in any corner , and will set all the windows a-glowing as if there were a great fire of pine-knots in the chimney .
And then how pleasant , when we awake in the night , to be able to see one another 's faces ! ''
There was a general smile among the adventurers at the simplicity of the young couple 's project in regard to this wondrous and invaluable stone , with which the greatest monarch on earth might have been proud to adorn his palace .
Especially the man with spectacles , who had sneered at all the company in turn , now twisted his visage into such an expression of ill-natured mirth that Matthew asked him rather peevishly what he himself meant to do with the Great Carbuncle .
`` The Great Carbuncle ! ''
answered the cynic , with ineffable scorn .
`` Why , you blockhead , there is no such thing in rerum natur .
I have come three thousand miles , and am resolved to set my foot on every peak of these mountains and poke my head into every chasm for the sole purpose of demonstrating to the satisfaction of any man one whit less an ass than thyself that the Great Carbuncle is all a humbug . ''
Vain and foolish were the motives that had brought most of the adventurers to the Crystal Hills , but none so vain , so foolish , and so impious too , as that of the scoffer with the prodigious spectacles .
He was one of those wretched and evil men whose yearnings are downward to the darkness instead of heavenward , and who , could they but extinguish the lights which God hath kindled for us , would count the midnight gloom their chiefest glory .
As the cynic spoke several of the party were startled by a gleam of red splendor that showed the huge shapes of the surrounding mountains and the rock-bestrewn bed of the turbulent river , with an illumination unlike that of their fire , on the trunks and black boughs of the forest-trees .
They listened for the roll of thunder , but heard nothing , and were glad that the tempest came not near them .
The stars -- those dial-points of heaven -- now warned the adventurers to close their eyes on the blazing logs and open them in dreams to the glow of the Great Carbuncle .
The young married couple had taken their lodgings in the farthest corner of the wigwam , and were separated from the rest of the party by a curtain of curiously-woven twigs such as might have hung in deep festoons around the bridal-bower of Eve .
The modest little wife had wrought this piece of tapestry while the other guests were talking .
She and her husband fell asleep with hands tenderly clasped , and awoke from visions of unearthly radiance to meet the more blessed light of one another 's eyes .
They awoke at the same instant and with one happy smile beaming over their two faces , which grew brighter with their consciousness of the reality of life and love .
But no sooner did she recollect where they were than the bride peeped through the interstices of the leafy curtain and saw that the outer room of the hut was deserted .
`` Up , dear Matthew ! ''
cried she , in haste .
`` The strange folk are all gone .
Up this very minute , or we shall lose the Great Carbuncle ! ''
In truth , so little did these poor young people deserve the mighty prize which had lured them thither that they had slept peacefully all night and till the summits of the hills were glittering with sunshine , while the other adventurers had tossed their limbs in feverish wakefulness or dreamed of climbing precipices , and set off to realize their dreams with the curliest peep of dawn .
But Matthew and Hannah after their calm rest were as light as two young deer , and merely stopped to say their prayers and wash themselves in a cold pool of the Amonoosuck , and then to taste a morsel of food ere they turned their faces to the mountain-side .
It was a sweet emblem of conjugal affection as they toiled up the difficult ascent gathering strength from the mutual aid which they afforded .
After several little accidents , such as a torn robe , a lost shoe and the entanglement of Hannah 's hair in a bough , they reached the upper verge of the forest and were now to pursue a more adventurous course .
The innumerable trunks and heavy foliage of the trees had hitherto shut in their thoughts , which now shrank affrighted from the region of wind and cloud and naked rocks and desolate sunshine that rose immeasurably above them .
They gazed back at the obscure wilderness which they had traversed , and longed to be buried again in its depths rather than trust themselves to so vast and visible a solitude .
`` Shall we go on ? ''
said Matthew , throwing his arm round Hannah 's waist both to protect her and to comfort his heart by drawing her close to it .
But the little bride , simple as she was , had a woman 's love of jewels , and could not forego the hope of possessing the very brightest in the world , in spite of the perils with which it must be won .
`` Let us climb a little higher , '' whispered she , yet tremulously , as she turned her face upward to the lonely sky .
`` Come , then , '' said Matthew , mustering his manly courage and drawing her along with him ; for she became timid again the moment that he grew bold .
And upward , accordingly , went the pilgrims of the Great Carbuncle , now treading upon the tops and thickly-interwoven branches of dwarf pines which by the growth of centuries , though mossy with age , had barely reached three feet in altitude .
Next they came to masses and fragments of naked rock heaped confusedly together like a cairn reared by giants in memory of a giant chief .
In this bleak realm of upper air nothing breathed , nothing grew ; there was no life but what was concentred in their two hearts ; they had climbed so high that Nature herself seemed no longer to keep them company .
She lingered beneath them within the verge of the forest-trees , and sent a farewell glance after her children as they strayed where her own green footprints had never been .
But soon they were to be hidden from her eye .
Densely and dark the mists began to gather below , casting black spots of shadow on the vast landscape and sailing heavily to one centre , as if the loftiest mountain-peak had summoned a council of its kindred clouds .
Finally the vapors welded themselves , as it were , into a mass , presenting the appearance of a pavement over which the wanderers might have trodden , but where they would vainly have sought an avenue to the blessed earth which they had lost .
And the lovers yearned to behold that green earth again -- more intensely , alas !
than beneath a clouded sky they had ever desired a glimpse of heaven .
They even felt it a relief to their desolation when the mists , creeping gradually up the mountain , concealed its lonely peak , and thus annihilated -- at least , for them -- the whole region of visible space .
But they drew closer together with a fond and melancholy gaze , dreading lest the universal cloud should snatch them from each other 's sight .
Still , perhaps , they would have been resolute to climb as far and as high between earth and heaven as they could find foothold if Hannah 's strength had not begun to fail , and with that her courage also .
Her breath grew short .
She refused to burden her husband with her weight , but often tottered against his side , and recovered herself each time by a feebler effort .
At last she sank down on one of the rocky steps of the acclivity .
`` We are lost , dear Matthew , '' said she , mournfully ; `` we shall never find our way to the earth again .
And oh how happy we might have been in our cottage ! ''
`` Dear heart , we will yet be happy there , '' answered Matthew .
`` Look !
In this direction the sunshine penetrates the dismal mist ; by its aid I can direct our course to the passage of the Notch .
Let us go back , love , and dream no more of the Great Carbuncle . ''
`` The sun can not be yonder , '' said Hannah , with despondence .
`` By this time it must be noon ; if there could ever be any sunshine here , it would come from above our heads . ''
`` But look ! ''
repeated Matthew , in a somewhat altered tone .
`` It is brightening every moment .
If not sunshine , what can it be ? ''
Nor could the young bride any longer deny that a radiance was breaking through the mist and changing its dim hue to a dusky red , which continually grew more vivid , as if brilliant particles were interfused with the gloom .
Now , also , the cloud began to roll away from the mountain , while , as it heavily withdrew , one object after another started out of its impenetrable obscurity into sight with precisely the effect of a new creation before the indistinctness of the old chaos had been completely swallowed up .
As the process went on they saw the gleaming of water close at their feet , and found themselves on the very border of a mountain-lake , deep , bright , clear and calmly beautiful , spreading from brim to brim of a basin that had been scooped out of the solid rock .
A ray of glory flashed across its surface .
The pilgrims looked whence it should proceed , but closed their eyes , with a thrill of awful admiration , to exclude the fervid splendor that glowed from the brow of a cliff impending over the enchanted lake .
For the simple pair had reached that lake of mystery and found the long-sought shrine of the Great Carbuncle .
They threw their arms around each other and trembled at their own success , for as the legends of this wondrous gem rushed thick upon their memory they felt themselves marked out by fate , and the consciousness was fearful .
Often from childhood upward they had seen it shining like a distant star , and now that star was throwing its intensest lustre on their hearts .
They seemed changed to one another 's eyes in the red brilliancy that flamed upon their cheeks , while it lent the same fire to the lake , the rocks and sky , and to the mists which had rolled back before its power .
But with their next glance they beheld an object that drew their attention even from the mighty stone .
At the base of the cliff , directly beneath the Great Carbuncle , appeared the figure of a man with his arms extended in the act of climbing and his face turned upward as if to drink the full gush of splendor .
But he stirred not , no more than if changed to marble .
`` It is the Seeker , '' whispered Hannah , convulsively grasping her husband 's arm .
`` Matthew , he is dead . ''
`` The joy of success has killed him , '' replied Matthew , trembling violently .
`` Or perhaps the very light of the Great Carbuncle was death . '' ''
` The Great Carbuncle ' ! ''
cried a peevish voice behind them .
`` The great humbug !
If you have found it , prithee point it out to me . ''
They turned their heads , and there was the cynic with his prodigious spectacles set carefully on his nose , staring now at the lake , now at the rocks , now at the distant masses of vapor , now right at the Great Carbuncle itself , yet seemingly as unconscious of its light as if all the scattered clouds were condensed about his person .
Though its radiance actually threw the shadow of the unbeliever at his own feet as he turned his back upon the glorious jewel , he would not be convinced that there was the least glimmer there .
`` Where is your great humbug ? ''
he repeated .
`` I challenge you to make me see it . ''
`` There ! ''
said Matthew , incensed at such perverse blindness , and turning the cynic round toward the illuminated cliff .
`` Take off those abominable spectacles , and you can not help seeing it . ''
Now , these colored spectacles probably darkened the cynic 's sight in at least as great a degree as the smoked glasses through which people gaze at an eclipse .
With resolute bravado , however , he snatched them from his nose and fixed a bold stare full upon the ruddy blaze of the Great Carbuncle .
But scarcely had he encountered it when , with a deep , shuddering groan , he dropped his head and pressed both hands across his miserable eyes .
Thenceforth there was in very truth no light of the Great Carbuncle , nor any other light on earth , nor light of heaven itself , for the poor cynic .
So long accustomed to view all objects through a medium that deprived them of every glimpse of brightness , a single flash of so glorious a phenomenon , striking upon his naked vision , had blinded him for ever .
`` Matthew , '' said Hannah , clinging to him , `` let us go hence . ''
Matthew saw that she was faint , and , kneeling down , supported her in his arms while he threw some of the thrillingly-cold water of the enchanted lake upon her face and bosom .
It revived her , but could not renovate her courage .
`` Yes , dearest , '' cried Matthew , pressing her tremulous form to his breast ; `` we will go hence and return to our humble cottage .
The blessed sunshine and the quiet moonlight shall come through our window .
We will kindle the cheerful glow of our hearth at eventide and be happy in its light .
But never again will we desire more light than all the world may share with us . ''
`` No , '' said his bride , `` for how could we live by day or sleep by night in this awful blaze of the Great Carbuncle ? ''
Out of the hollow of their hands they drank each a draught from the lake , which presented them its waters uncontaminated by an earthly lip .
Then , lending their guidance to the blinded cynic , who uttered not a word , and even stifled his groans in his own most wretched heart , they began to descend the mountain .
Yet as they left the shore , till then untrodden , of the spirit 's lake , they threw a farewell glance toward the cliff and beheld the vapors gathering in dense volumes , through which the gem burned duskily .
As touching the other pilgrims of the Great Carbuncle , the legend goes on to tell that the worshipful Master Ichabod Pigsnort soon gave up the quest as a desperate speculation , and wisely resolved to betake himself again to his warehouse , near the town-dock , in Boston .
But as he passed through the Notch of the mountains a war-party of Indians captured our unlucky merchant and carried him to Montreal , there holding him in bondage till by the payment of a heavy ransom he had woefully subtracted from his hoard of pine-tree shillings .
By his long absence , moreover , his affairs had become so disordered that for the rest of his life , instead of wallowing in silver , he had seldom a sixpence-worth of copper .
Doctor Cacaphodel , the alchemist , returned to his laboratory with a prodigious fragment of granite , which he ground to powder , dissolved in acids , melted in the crucible and burnt with the blowpipe , and published the result of his experiments in one of the heaviest folios of the day .
And for all these purposes the gem itself could not have answered better than the granite .
The poet , by a somewhat similar mistake , made prize of a great piece of ice which he found in a sunless chasm of the mountains , and swore that it corresponded in all points with his idea of the Great Carbuncle .
The critics say that , if his poetry lacked the splendor of the gem , it retained all the coldness of the ice .
The lord De Vere went back to his ancestral hall , where he contented himself with a wax-lighted chandelier , and filled in due course of time another coffin in the ancestral vault .
As the funeral torches gleamed within that dark receptacle , there was no need of the Great Carbuncle to show the vanity of earthly pomp .
The cynic , having cast aside his spectacles , wandered about the world a miserable object , and was punished with an agonizing desire of light for the wilful blindness of his former life .
The whole night long he would lift his splendor-blasted orbs to the moon and stars ; he turned his face eastward at sunrise as duly as a Persian idolater ; he made a pilgrimage to Rome to witness the magnificent illumination of Saint Peter 's church , and finally perished in the Great Fire of London , into the midst of which he had thrust himself with the desperate idea of catching one feeble ray from the blaze that was kindling earth and heaven .
Matthew and his bride spent many peaceful years and were fond of telling the legend of the Great Carbuncle .
The tale , however , toward the close of their lengthened lives , did not meet with the full credence that had been accorded to it by those who remembered the ancient lustre of the gem .
For it is affirmed that from the hour when two mortals had shown themselves so simply wise as to reject a jewel which would have dimmed all earthly things its splendor waned .
When our pilgrims reached the cliff , they found only an opaque stone with particles of mica glittering on its surface .
There is also a tradition that as the youthful pair departed the gem was loosened from the forehead of the cliff and fell into the enchanted lake , and that at noontide the Seeker 's form may still be seen to bend over its quenchless gleam .
Some few believe that this inestimable stone is blazing as of old , and say that they have caught its radiance , like a flash of summer lightning , far down the valley of the Saco .
And be it owned that many a mile from the Crystal Hills I saw a wondrous light around their summits , and was lured by the faith of poesy to be the latest pilgrim of the Great Carbuncle .
THE PROPHETIC PICTURES .
-LSB- 1 -RSB- `` But this painter ! ''
cried Walter Ludlow , with animation .
`` He not only excels in his peculiar art , but possesses vast acquirements in all other learning and science .
He talks Hebrew with Dr. Mather and gives lectures in anatomy to Dr. Boylston .
In a word , he will meet the best-instructed man among us on his own ground .
Moreover , he is a polished gentleman , a citizen of the world -- yes , a true cosmopolite ; for he will speak like a native of each clime and country on the globe , except our own forests , whither he is now going .
Nor is all this what I most admire in him . ''
-LSB- Footnote 1 : This story was suggested by an anecdote of Stuart related in Dunlap 's History of the Arts of Designs -- a most entertaining book to the general reader , and a deeply-interesting one , we should think , to the artist . -RSB-
`` Indeed ! ''
said Elinor , who had listened with a women 's interest to the description of such a man .
`` Yet this is admirable enough . ''
`` Surely it is , '' replied her lover , `` but far less so than his natural gift of adapting himself to every variety of character , insomuch that all men -- and all women too , Elinor -- shall find a mirror of themselves in this wonderful painter .
But the greatest wonder is yet to be told . ''
`` Nay , if he have more wonderful attributes than these , '' said Elinor , laughing , `` Boston is a perilous abode for the poor gentleman .
Are you telling me of a painter , or a wizard ? ''
`` In truth , '' answered he , `` that question might be asked much more seriously than you suppose .
They say that he paints not merely a man 's features , but his mind and heart .
He catches the secret sentiments and passions and throws them upon the canvas like sunshine , or perhaps , in the portraits of dark-souled men , like a gleam of infernal fire .
It is an awful gift , '' added Walter , lowering his voice from its tone of enthusiasm .
`` I shall be almost afraid to sit to him . ''
`` Walter , are you in earnest ? ''
exclaimed Elinor .
`` For Heaven 's sake , dearest Elinor , do not let him paint the look which you now wear , '' said her lover , smiling , though rather perplexed .
`` There !
it is passing away now ; but when you spoke , you seemed frightened to death , and very sad besides .
What were you thinking of ? ''
`` Nothing , nothing ! ''
answered Elinor , hastily .
`` You paint my face with your own fantasies .
Well , come for me tomorrow , and we will visit this wonderful artist . ''
But when the young man had departed , it can not be denied that a remarkable expression was again visible on the fair and youthful face of his mistress .
It was a sad and anxious look , little in accordance with what should have been the feelings of a maiden on the eve of wedlock .
Yet Walter Ludlow was the chosen of her heart .
`` A look ! ''
said Elinor to herself .
`` No wonder that it startled him if it expressed what I sometimes feel .
I know by my own experience how frightful a look may be .
But it was all fancy .
I thought nothing of it at the time ; I have seen nothing of it since ; I did but dream it ; '' and she busied herself about the embroidery of a ruff in which she meant that her portrait should be taken .
The painter of whom they had been speaking was not one of those native artists who at a later period than this borrowed their colors from the Indians and manufactured their pencils of the furs of wild beasts .
Perhaps , if he could have revoked his life and prearranged his destiny , he might have chosen to belong to that school without a master in the hope of being at least original , since there were no works of art to imitate nor rules to follow .
But he had been born and educated in Europe .
People said that he had studied the grandeur or beauty of conception and every touch of the master-hand in all the most famous pictures in cabinets and galleries and on the walls of churches till there was nothing more for his powerful mind to learn .
Art could add nothing to its lessons , but Nature might .
He had , therefore , visited a world whither none of his professional brethren had preceded him , to feast his eyes on visible images that were noble and picturesque , yet had never been transferred to canvas .
America was too poor to afford other temptations to an artist of eminence , though many of the colonial gentry on the painter 's arrival had expressed a wish to transmit their lineaments to posterity by moans of his skill .
Whenever such proposals were made , he fixed his piercing eyes on the applicant and seemed to look him through and through .
If he beheld only a sleek and comfortable visage , though there were a gold-laced coat to adorn the picture and golden guineas to pay for it , he civilly rejected the task and the reward ; but if the face were the index of anything uncommon in thought , sentiment or experience , or if he met a beggar in the street with a white beard and a furrowed brow , or if sometimes a child happened to look up and smile , he would exhaust all the art on them that he denied to wealth .
Pictorial skill being so rare in the colonies , the painter became an object of general curiosity .
If few or none could appreciate the technical merit of his productions , yet there were points in regard to which the opinion of the crowd was as valuable as the refined judgment of the amateur .
He watched the effect that each picture produced on such untutored beholders , and derived profit from their remarks , while they would as soon have thought of instructing Nature herself as him who seemed to rival her .
Their admiration , it must be owned , was tinctured with the prejudices of the age and country .
Some deemed it an offence against the Mosaic law , and even a presumptuous mockery of the Creator , to bring into existence such lively images of his creatures .
Others , frightened at the art which could raise phantoms at will and keep the form of the dead among the living , were inclined to consider the painter as a magician , or perhaps the famous Black Man of old witch-times plotting mischief in a new guise .
These foolish fancies were more , than half believed among the mob .
Even in superior circles his character was invested with a vague awe , partly rising like smoke-wreaths from the popular superstitions , but chiefly caused by the varied knowledge and talents which he made subservient to his profession .
Being on the eve of marriage , Walter Ludlow and Elinor were eager to obtain their portraits as the first of what , they doubtless hoped , would be a long series of family pictures .
The day after the conversation above recorded they visited the painter 's rooms .
A servant ushered them into an apartment where , though the artist himself was not visible , there were personages whom they could hardly forbear greeting with reverence .
They knew , indeed , that the whole assembly were but pictures , yet felt it impossible to separate the idea of life and intellect from such striking counterfeits .
Several of the portraits were known to them either as distinguished characters of the day or their private acquaintances .
There was Governor Burnett , looking as if he had just received an undutiful communication from the House of Representatives and were inditing a most sharp response .
Mr. Cooke hung beside the ruler whom he opposed , sturdy and somewhat puritanical , as befitted a popular leader .
The ancient lady of Sir William Phipps eyed them from the wall in ruff and farthingale , an imperious old dame not unsuspected of witchcraft .
John Winslow , then a very young man , wore the expression of warlike enterprise which long afterward made him a distinguished general .
Their personal friends were recognized at a glance .
In most of the pictures the whole mind and character were brought out on the countenance and concentrated into a single look ; so that , to speak paradoxically , the originals hardly resembled themselves so strikingly as the portraits did .
Among these modern worthies there were two old bearded saints who had almost vanished into the darkening canvas .
There was also a pale but unfaded Madonna who had perhaps been worshipped in Rome , and now regarded the lovers with such a mild and holy look that they longed to worship too .
`` How singular a thought , '' observed Walter Ludlow , `` that this beautiful face has been beautiful for above two hundred years !
Oh , if all beauty would endure so well !
Do you not envy her , Elinor ? ''
`` If earth were heaven , I might , '' she replied .
`` But , where all things fade , how miserable to be the one that could not fade ! ''
`` This dark old St. Peter has a fierce and ugly scowl , saint though he be , '' continued Walter ; `` he troubles me .
But the Virgin looks kindly at us . ''
`` Yes , but very sorrowfully , methinks , '' said Elinor .
The easel stood beneath these three old pictures , sustaining one that had been recently commenced .
After a little inspection they began to recognize the features of their own minister , the Rev. Dr. Colman , growing into shape and life , as it were , out of a cloud .
`` Kind old man ! ''
exclaimed Elinor .
`` He gazes at me as if he were about to utter a word of paternal advice . ''
`` And at me , '' said Walter , `` as if he were about to shake his head and rebuke me for some suspected iniquity .
But so does the original .
I shall never feel quite comfortable under his eye till we stand before him to be married . ''
They now heard a footstep on the floor , and , turning , beheld the painter , who had been some moments in the room and had listened to a few of their remarks .
He was a middle-aged man with a countenance well worthy of his own pencil .
Indeed , by the picturesque though careless arrangement of his rich dress , and perhaps because his soul dwelt always among painted shapes , he looked somewhat like a portrait himself .
His visitors were sensible of a kindred between the artist and his works , and felt as if one of the pictures had stepped from the canvas to salute them .
Walter Ludlow , who was slightly known to the painter , explained the object of their visit .
While he spoke a sunbeam was falling athwart his figure and Elinor 's with so happy an effect that they also seemed living pictures of youth and beauty gladdened by bright fortune .
The artist was evidently struck .
`` My easel is occupied for several ensuing days , and my stay in Boston must be brief , '' said he , thoughtfully ; then , after an observant glance , he added , `` But your wishes shall be gratified though I disappoint the chief-justice and Madame Oliver .
I must not lose this opportunity for the sake of painting a few ells of broadcloth and brocade . ''
The painter expressed a desire to introduce both their portraits into one picture and represent them engaged in some appropriate action .
This plan would have delighted the lovers , but was necessarily rejected because so large a space of canvas would have been unfit for the room which it was intended to decorate .
Two half-length portraits were therefore fixed upon .
After they had taken leave , Walter Ludlow asked Elinor , with a smile , whether she knew what an influence over their fates the painter was about to acquire .
`` The old women of Boston affirm , '' continued he , `` that after he has once got possession of a person 's face and figure he may paint him in any act or situation whatever , and the picture will be prophetic .
Do you believe it ? ''
`` Not quite , '' said Elinor , smiling .
`` Yet if he has such magic , there is something so gentle in his manner that I am sure he will use it well . ''
It was the painter 's choice to proceed with both the portraits at the same time , assigning as a reason , in the mystical language which he sometimes used , that the faces threw light upon each other .
Accordingly , he gave now a touch to Walter and now to Elinor , and the features of one and the other began to start forth so vividly that it appeared as if his triumphant art would actually disengage them from the canvas .
Amid the rich light and deep shade they beheld their phantom selves , but , though the likeness promised to be perfect , they were not quite satisfied with the expression : it seemed more vague than in most of the painter 's works .
He , however , was satisfied with the prospect of success , and , being much interested in the lovers , employed his leisure moments , unknown to them , in making a crayon sketch of their two figures .
During their sittings he engaged them in conversation and kindled up their faces with characteristic traits , which , though continually varying , it was his purpose to combine and fix .
At length he announced that at their next visit both the portraits would be ready for delivery .
`` If my pencil will but be true to my conception in the few last touches which I meditate , '' observed he , `` these two pictures will be my very best performances .
Seldom indeed has an artist such subjects . ''
While speaking he still bent his penetrative eye upon them , nor withdrew it till they had reached the bottom of the stairs .
Nothing in the whole circle of human vanities takes stronger hold of the imagination than this affair of having a portrait painted .
Yet why should it be so ?
The looking-glass , the polished globes of the andirons , the mirror-like water , and all other reflecting surfaces , continually present us with portraits -- or , rather , ghosts -- of ourselves which we glance at and straightway forget them .
But we forget them only because they vanish .
It is the idea of duration -- of earthly immortality -- that gives such a mysterious interest to our own portraits .
Walter and Elinor were not insensible to this feeling , and hastened to the painter 's room punctually at the appointed hour to meet those pictured shapes which were to be their representatives with posterity .
The sunshine flashed after them into the apartment , but left it somewhat gloomy as they closed the door .
Their eyes were immediately attracted to their portraits , which rested against the farthest wall of the room .
At the first glance through the dim light and the distance , seeing themselves in precisely their natural attitudes and with all the air that they recognized so well , they uttered a simultaneous exclamation of delight .
`` There we stand , '' cried Walter , enthusiastically , `` fixed in sunshine for ever .
No dark passions can gather on our faces . ''
`` No , '' said Elinor , more calmly ; `` no dreary change can sadden us . ''
This was said while they were approaching and had yet gained only an imperfect view of the pictures .
The painter , after saluting them , busied himself at a table in completing a crayon sketch , leaving his visitors to form their own judgment as to his perfected labors .
At intervals he sent a glance from beneath his deep eyebrows , watching their countenances in profile with his pencil suspended over the sketch .
They had now stood some moments , each in front of the other 's picture , contemplating it with entranced attention , but without uttering a word .
At length Walter stepped forward , then back , viewing Elinor 's portrait in various lights , and finally spoke .
`` Is there not a change ? ''
said he , in a doubtful and meditative tone .
`` Yes ; the perception of it grows more vivid the longer I look .
It is certainly the same picture that I saw yesterday ; the dress , the features , all are the same , and yet something is altered . ''
`` Is , then , the picture less like than it was yesterday ? ''
inquired the painter , now drawing near with irrepressible interest .
`` The features are perfect Elinor , '' answered Walter , `` and at the first glance the expression seemed also hers ; but I could fancy that the portrait has changed countenance while I have been looking at it .
The eyes are fixed on mine with a strangely sad and anxious expression .
Nay , it is grief and terror .
Is this like Elinor ? ''
`` Compare the living face with the pictured one , '' said the painter .
Walter glanced sidelong at his mistress , and started .
Motionless and absorbed , fascinated , as it were , in contemplation of Walter 's portrait , Elinor 's face had assumed precisely the expression of which he had just been complaining .
Had she practised for whole hours before a mirror , she could not have caught the look so successfully .
Had the picture itself been a mirror , it could not have thrown back her present aspect with stronger and more melancholy truth .
She appeared quite unconscious of the dialogue between the artist and her lover .
`` Elinor , '' exclaimed Walter , in amazement , `` what change has come over you ? ''
She did not hear him nor desist from her fixed gaze till he seized her hand , and thus attracted her notice ; then with a sudden tremor she looked from the picture to the face of the original .
`` Do you see no change in your portrait ? ''
asked she .
`` In mine ?
None , '' replied Walter , examining it .
`` But let me see .
Yes ; there is a slight change -- an improvement , I think , in the picture , though none in the likeness .
It has a livelier expression than yesterday , as if some bright thought were flashing from the eyes and about to be uttered from the lips .
Now that I have caught the look , it becomes very decided . ''
While he was intent on these observations Elinor turned to the painter .
She regarded him with grief and awe , and felt that he repaid her with sympathy and commiseration , though wherefore she could but vaguely guess .
`` That look ! ''
whispered she , and shuddered .
`` How came it there ? ''
`` Madam , '' said the painter , sadly , taking her hand and leading her apart , `` in both these pictures I have painted what I saw .
The artist -- the true artist -- must look beneath the exterior .
It is his gift -- his proudest , but often a melancholy one -- to see the inmost soul , and by a power indefinable even to himself to make it glow or darken upon the canvas in glances that express the thought and sentiment of years .
Would that I might convince myself of error in the present instance ! ''
They had now approached the table , on which were heads in chalk , hands almost as expressive as ordinary faces , ivied church-towers , thatched cottages , old thunder-stricken trees , Oriental and antique costume , and all such picturesque vagaries of an artist 's idle moments .
Turning them over with seeming carelessness , a crayon sketch of two figures was disclosed .
`` If I have failed , '' continued he -- `` if your heart does not see itself reflected in your own portrait , if you have no secret cause to trust my delineation of the other -- it is not yet too late to alter them .
I might change the action of these figures too .
But would it influence the event ? ''
He directed her notice to the sketch .
A thrill ran through Elinor 's frame ; a shriek was upon her lips , but she stifled it with the self-command that becomes habitual to all who hide thoughts of fear and anguish within their bosoms .
Turning from the table , she perceived that Walter had advanced near enough to have seen the sketch , though she could not determine whether it had caught his eye .
`` We will not have the pictures altered , '' said she , hastily .
`` If mine is sad , I shall but look the gayer for the contrast . ''
`` Be it so , '' answered the painter , bowing .
`` May your griefs be such fanciful ones that only your pictures may mourn for them !
For your joys , may they be true and deep , and paint themselves upon this lovely face till it quite belie my art ! ''
After the marriage of Walter and Elinor the pictures formed the two most splendid ornaments of their abode .
They hung side by side , separated by a narrow panel , appearing to eye each other constantly , yet always returning the gaze of the spectator .
Travelled gentlemen who professed a knowledge of such subjects reckoned these among the most admirable specimens of modern portraiture , while common observers compared them with the originals , feature by feature , and were rapturous in praise of the likeness .
But it was on a third class -- neither travelled connoisseurs nor common observers , but people of natural sensibility -- that the pictures wrought their strongest effect .
Such persons might gaze carelessly at first , but , becoming interested , would return day after day and study these painted faces like the pages of a mystic volume .
Walter Ludlow 's portrait attracted their earliest notice .
In the absence of himself and his bride they sometimes disputed as to the expression which the painter had intended to throw upon the features , all agreeing that there was a look of earnest import , though no two explained it alike .
There was less diversity of opinion in regard to Elinor 's picture .
They differed , indeed , in their attempts to estimate the nature and depth of the gloom that dwelt upon her face , but agreed that it was gloom and alien from the natural temperament of their youthful friend .
A certain fanciful person announced as the result of much scrutiny that both these pictures were parts of one design , and that the melancholy strength of feeling in Elinor 's countenance bore reference to the more vivid emotion -- or , as he termed it , the wild passion -- in that of Walter .
Though unskilled in the art , he even began a sketch in which the action of the two figures was to correspond with their mutual expression .
It was whispered among friends that day by day Elinor 's face was assuming a deeper shade of pensiveness which threatened soon to render her too true a counterpart of her melancholy picture .
Walter , on the other hand , instead of acquiring the vivid look which the painter had given him on the canvas , became reserved and downcast , with no outward flashes of emotion , however it might be smouldering within .
In course of time Elinor hung a gorgeous curtain of purple silk wrought with flowers and fringed with heavy golden tassels before the pictures , under pretence that the dust would tarnish their hues or the light dim them .
It was enough .
Her visitors felt that the massive folds of the silk must never be withdrawn nor the portraits mentioned in her presence .
Time wore on , and the painter came again .
He had been far enough to the north to see the silver cascade of the Crystal Hills , and to look over the vast round of cloud and forest from the summit of New England 's loftiest mountain .
But he did not profane that scene by the mockery of his art .
He had also lain in a canoe on the bosom of Lake George , making his soul the mirror of its loveliness and grandeur till not a picture in the Vatican was more vivid than his recollection .
He had gone with the Indian hunters to Niagara , and there , again , had flung his hopeless pencil down the precipice , feeling that he could as soon paint the roar as aught else that goes to make up the wondrous cataract .
In truth , it was seldom his impulse to copy natural scenery except as a framework for the delineations of the human form and face instinct with thought , passion or suffering .
With store of such his adventurous ramble had enriched him .
The stern dignity of Indian chiefs , the dusky loveliness of Indian girls , the domestic life of wigwams , the stealthy march , the battle beneath gloomy pine trees , the frontier fortress with its garrison , the anomaly of the old French partisan bred in courts , but grown gray in shaggy deserts , -- such were the scenes and portraits that he had sketched .
The glow of perilous moments , flashes of wild feeling , struggles of fierce power , love , hate , grief , frenzy -- in a word , all the worn-out heart of the old earth -- had been revealed to him under a new form .
His portfolio was filled with graphic illustrations of the volume of his memory which genius would transmute into its own substance and imbue with immortality .
He felt that the deep wisdom in his art which he had sought so far was found .
But amid stern or lovely nature , in the perils of the forest or its overwhelming peacefulness , still there had been two phantoms , the companions of his way .
Like all other men around whom an engrossing purpose wreathes itself , he was insulated from the mass of humankind .
He had no aim , no pleasure , no sympathies , but what were ultimately connected with his art .
Though gentle in manner and upright in intent and action , he did not possess kindly feelings ; his heart was cold : no living creature could be brought near enough to keep him warm .
For these two beings , however , he had felt in its greatest intensity the sort of interest which always allied him to the subjects of his pencil .
He had pried into their souls with his keenest insight and pictured the result upon their features with his utmost skill , so as barely to fall short of that standard which no genius ever reached , his own severe conception .
He had caught from the duskiness of the future -- at least , so he fancied -- a fearful secret , and had obscurely revealed it on the portraits .
