Toomai knew that so long as he lay still on Kala Nag 's neck nothing would happen to him , for even in the rush and scramble of a Keddah drive a wild elephant does not reach up with his trunk and drag a man off the neck of a tame elephant .
And these elephants were not thinking of men that night .
Once they started and put their ears forward when they heard the chinking of a leg iron in the forest , but it was Pudmini , Petersen Sahib 's pet elephant , her chain snapped short off , grunting , snuffling up the hillside .
She must have broken her pickets and come straight from Petersen Sahib 's camp ; and Little Toomai saw another elephant , one that he did not know , with deep rope galls on his back and breast .
He , too , must have run away from some camp in the hills about .
At last there was no sound of any more elephants moving in the forest , and Kala Nag rolled out from his station between the trees and went into the middle of the crowd , clucking and gurgling , and all the elephants began to talk in their own tongue , and to move about .
Still lying down , Little Toomai looked down upon scores and scores of broad backs , and wagging ears , and tossing trunks , and little rolling eyes .
He heard the click of tusks as they crossed other tusks by accident , and the dry rustle of trunks twined together , and the chafing of enormous sides and shoulders in the crowd , and the incessant flick and hissh of the great tails .
Then a cloud came over the moon , and he sat in black darkness .
But the quiet , steady hustling and pushing and gurgling went on just the same .
He knew that there were elephants all round Kala Nag , and that there was no chance of backing him out of the assembly ; so he set his teeth and shivered .
In a Keddah at least there was torchlight and shouting , but here he was all alone in the dark , and once a trunk came up and touched him on the knee .
Then an elephant trumpeted , and they all took it up for five or ten terrible seconds .
The dew from the trees above spattered down like rain on the unseen backs , and a dull booming noise began , not very loud at first , and Little Toomai could not tell what it was .
But it grew and grew , and Kala Nag lifted up one forefoot and then the other , and brought them down on the ground -- one-two , one-two , as steadily as trip-hammers .
The elephants were stamping all together now , and it sounded like a war drum beaten at the mouth of a cave .
The dew fell from the trees till there was no more left to fall , and the booming went on , and the ground rocked and shivered , and Little Toomai put his hands up to his ears to shut out the sound .
But it was all one gigantic jar that ran through him -- this stamp of hundreds of heavy feet on the raw earth .
Once or twice he could feel Kala Nag and all the others surge forward a few strides , and the thumping would change to the crushing sound of juicy green things being bruised , but in a minute or two the boom of feet on hard earth began again .
A tree was creaking and groaning somewhere near him .
He put out his arm and felt the bark , but Kala Nag moved forward , still tramping , and he could not tell where he was in the clearing .
There was no sound from the elephants , except once , when two or three little calves squeaked together .
Then he heard a thump and a shuffle , and the booming went on .
It must have lasted fully two hours , and Little Toomai ached in every nerve , but he knew by the smell of the night air that the dawn was coming .
The morning broke in one sheet of pale yellow behind the green hills , and the booming stopped with the first ray , as though the light had been an order .
Before Little Toomai had got the ringing out of his head , before even he had shifted his position , there was not an elephant in sight except Kala Nag , Pudmini , and the elephant with the rope-galls , and there was neither sign nor rustle nor whisper down the hillsides to show where the others had gone .
Little Toomai stared again and again .
The clearing , as he remembered it , had grown in the night .
More trees stood in the middle of it , but the undergrowth and the jungle grass at the sides had been rolled back .
Little Toomai stared once more .
Now he understood the trampling .
The elephants had stamped out more room -- had stamped the thick grass and juicy cane to trash , the trash into slivers , the slivers into tiny fibers , and the fibers into hard earth .
`` Wah ! ''
said Little Toomai , and his eyes were very heavy .
`` Kala Nag , my lord , let us keep by Pudmini and go to Petersen Sahib 's camp , or I shall drop from thy neck . ''
The third elephant watched the two go away , snorted , wheeled round , and took his own path .
He may have belonged to some little native king 's establishment , fifty or sixty or a hundred miles away .
Two hours later , as Petersen Sahib was eating early breakfast , his elephants , who had been double chained that night , began to trumpet , and Pudmini , mired to the shoulders , with Kala Nag , very footsore , shambled into the camp .
Little Toomai 's face was gray and pinched , and his hair was full of leaves and drenched with dew , but he tried to salute Petersen Sahib , and cried faintly : `` The dance -- the elephant dance !
I have seen it , and -- I die ! ''
As Kala Nag sat down , he slid off his neck in a dead faint .
But , since native children have no nerves worth speaking of , in two hours he was lying very contentedly in Petersen Sahib 's hammock with Petersen Sahib 's shooting-coat under his head , and a glass of warm milk , a little brandy , with a dash of quinine , inside of him , and while the old hairy , scarred hunters of the jungles sat three deep before him , looking at him as though he were a spirit , he told his tale in short words , as a child will , and wound up with : `` Now , if I lie in one word , send men to see , and they will find that the elephant folk have trampled down more room in their dance-room , and they will find ten and ten , and many times ten , tracks leading to that dance-room .
They made more room with their feet .
I have seen it .
Kala Nag took me , and I saw .
Also Kala Nag is very leg-weary ! ''
Little Toomai lay back and slept all through the long afternoon and into the twilight , and while he slept Petersen Sahib and Machua Appa followed the track of the two elephants for fifteen miles across the hills .
Petersen Sahib had spent eighteen years in catching elephants , and he had only once before found such a dance-place .
Machua Appa had no need to look twice at the clearing to see what had been done there , or to scratch with his toe in the packed , rammed earth .
`` The child speaks truth , '' said he .
`` All this was done last night , and I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river .
See , Sahib , where Pudmini 's leg-iron cut the bark of that tree !
Yes ; she was there too . ''
They looked at one another and up and down , and they wondered .
For the ways of elephants are beyond the wit of any man , black or white , to fathom .
`` Forty years and five , '' said Machua Appa , `` have I followed my lord , the elephant , but never have I heard that any child of man had seen what this child has seen .
By all the Gods of the Hills , it is -- what can we say ? ''
and he shook his head .
When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal .
Petersen Sahib ate alone in his tent , but he gave orders that the camp should have two sheep and some fowls , as well as a double ration of flour and rice and salt , for he knew that there would be a feast .
Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the camp in the plains to search for his son and his elephant , and now that he had found them he looked at them as though he were afraid of them both .
And there was a feast by the blazing campfires in front of the lines of picketed elephants , and Little Toomai was the hero of it all .
And the big brown elephant catchers , the trackers and drivers and ropers , and the men who know all the secrets of breaking the wildest elephants , passed him from one to the other , and they marked his forehead with blood from the breast of a newly killed jungle-cock , to show that he was a forester , initiated and free of all the jungles .
And at last , when the flames died down , and the red light of the logs made the elephants look as though they had been dipped in blood too , Machua Appa , the head of all the drivers of all the Keddahs -- Machua Appa , Petersen Sahib 's other self , who had never seen a made road in forty years : Machua Appa , who was so great that he had no other name than Machua Appa , -- leaped to his feet , with Little Toomai held high in the air above his head , and shouted : `` Listen , my brothers .
Listen , too , you my lords in the lines there , for I , Machua Appa , am speaking !
This little one shall no more be called Little Toomai , but Toomai of the Elephants , as his great-grandfather was called before him .
What never man has seen he has seen through the long night , and the favor of the elephant-folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with him .
He shall become a great tracker .
He shall become greater than I , even I , Machua Appa !
He shall follow the new trail , and the stale trail , and the mixed trail , with a clear eye !
He shall take no harm in the Keddah when he runs under their bellies to rope the wild tuskers ; and if he slips before the feet of the charging bull elephant , the bull elephant shall know who he is and shall not crush him .
Aihai !
my lords in the chains , '' -- he whirled up the line of pickets -- `` here is the little one that has seen your dances in your hidden places , -- the sight that never man saw !
Give him honor , my lords !
Salaam karo , my children .
Make your salute to Toomai of the Elephants !
Gunga Pershad , ahaa !
Hira Guj , Birchi Guj , Kuttar Guj , ahaa !
Pudmini , -- thou hast seen him at the dance , and thou too , Kala Nag , my pearl among elephants !
-- ahaa !
Together !
To Toomai of the Elephants .
Barrao ! ''
And at that last wild yell the whole line flung up their trunks till the tips touched their foreheads , and broke out into the full salute -- the crashing trumpet-peal that only the Viceroy of India hears , the Salaamut of the Keddah .
But it was all for the sake of Little Toomai , who had seen what never man had seen before -- the dance of the elephants at night and alone in the heart of the Garo hills !
Shiv and the Grasshopper -LRB- The song that Toomai 's mother sang to the baby -RRB- Shiv , who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow , Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago , Gave to each his portion , food and toil and fate , From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate .
All things made he -- Shiva the Preserver .
Mahadeo !
Mahadeo !
He made all , -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
Wheat he gave to rich folk , millet to the poor , Broken scraps for holy men that beg from door to door ; Battle to the tiger , carrion to the kite , And rags and bones to wicked wolves without the wall at night .
Naught he found too lofty , none he saw too low -- Parbati beside him watched them come and go ; Thought to cheat her husband , turning Shiv to jest -- Stole the little grasshopper and hid it in her breast .
So she tricked him , Shiva the Preserver .
Mahadeo !
Mahadeo !
Turn and see .
Tall are the camels , heavy are the kine , But this was Least of Little Things , O little son of mine !
When the dole was ended , laughingly she said , `` Master , of a million mouths , is not one unfed ? ''
Laughing , Shiv made answer , `` All have had their part , Even he , the little one , hidden ` neath thy heart . ''
From her breast she plucked it , Parbati the thief , Saw the Least of Little Things gnawed a new-grown leaf !
Saw and feared and wondered , making prayer to Shiv , Who hath surely given meat to all that live .
All things made he -- Shiva the Preserver .
Mahadeo !
Mahadeo !
He made all , -- Thorn for the camel , fodder for the kine , And mother 's heart for sleepy head , O little son of mine !
Her Majesty 's Servants You can work it out by Fractions or by simple Rule of Three , But the way of Tweedle-dum is not the way of Tweedle-dee .
You can twist it , you can turn it , you can plait it till you drop , But the way of Pilly Winky 's not the way of Winkie Pop !
It had been raining heavily for one whole month -- raining on a camp of thirty thousand men and thousands of camels , elephants , horses , bullocks , and mules all gathered together at a place called Rawal Pindi , to be reviewed by the Viceroy of India .
He was receiving a visit from the Amir of Afghanistan -- a wild king of a very wild country .
The Amir had brought with him for a bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who had never seen a camp or a locomotive before in their lives -- savage men and savage horses from somewhere at the back of Central Asia .
Every night a mob of these horses would be sure to break their heel ropes and stampede up and down the camp through the mud in the dark , or the camels would break loose and run about and fall over the ropes of the tents , and you can imagine how pleasant that was for men trying to go to sleep .
My tent lay far away from the camel lines , and I thought it was safe .
But one night a man popped his head in and shouted , `` Get out , quick !
They 're coming !
My tent 's gone ! ''
I knew who `` they '' were , so I put on my boots and waterproof and scuttled out into the slush .
Little Vixen , my fox terrier , went out through the other side ; and then there was a roaring and a grunting and bubbling , and I saw the tent cave in , as the pole snapped , and begin to dance about like a mad ghost .
A camel had blundered into it , and wet and angry as I was , I could not help laughing .
Then I ran on , because I did not know how many camels might have got loose , and before long I was out of sight of the camp , plowing my way through the mud .
At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun , and by that knew I was somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at night .
As I did not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and the dark , I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun , and made a sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that I found , and lay along the tail of another gun , wondering where Vixen had got to , and where I might be .
Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness and a grunt , and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears .
He belonged to a screw-gun battery , for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings and chains and things on his saddle pad .
The screw-guns are tiny little cannon made in two pieces , that are screwed together when the time comes to use them .
They are taken up mountains , anywhere that a mule can find a road , and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country .
Behind the mule there was a camel , with his big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud , and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed hen 's .
Luckily , I knew enough of beast language -- not wild-beast language , but camp-beast language , of course -- from the natives to know what he was saying .
He must have been the one that flopped into my tent , for he called to the mule , `` What shall I do ?
Where shall I go ?
I have fought with a white thing that waved , and it took a stick and hit me on the neck . ''
-LRB- That was my broken tent pole , and I was very glad to know it . -RRB-
`` Shall we run on ? ''
`` Oh , it was you , '' said the mule , `` you and your friends , that have been disturbing the camp ?
All right .
You 'll be beaten for this in the morning .
But I may as well give you something on account now . ''
I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed and caught the camel two kicks in the ribs that rang like a drum .
`` Another time , '' he said , `` you 'll know better than to run through a mule battery at night , shouting ` Thieves and fire ! '
Sit down , and keep your silly neck quiet . ''
The camel doubled up camel-fashion , like a two-foot rule , and sat down whimpering .
There was a regular beat of hoofs in the darkness , and a big troop-horse cantered up as steadily as though he were on parade , jumped a gun tail , and landed close to the mule .
`` It 's disgraceful , '' he said , blowing out his nostrils .
`` Those camels have racketed through our lines again -- the third time this week .
How 's a horse to keep his condition if he is n't allowed to sleep .
Who 's here ? ''
`` I 'm the breech-piece mule of number two gun of the First Screw Battery , '' said the mule , `` and the other 's one of your friends .
He 's waked me up too .
Who are you ? ''
`` Number Fifteen , E troop , Ninth Lancers -- Dick Cunliffe 's horse .
Stand over a little , there . ''
`` Oh , beg your pardon , '' said the mule .
`` It 's too dark to see much .
Are n't these camels too sickening for anything ?
I walked out of my lines to get a little peace and quiet here . ''
`` My lords , '' said the camel humbly , `` we dreamed bad dreams in the night , and we were very much afraid .
I am only a baggage camel of the 39th Native Infantry , and I am not as brave as you are , my lords . ''
`` Then why did n't you stay and carry baggage for the 39th Native Infantry , instead of running all round the camp ? ''
said the mule .
`` They were such very bad dreams , '' said the camel .
`` I am sorry .
Listen !
What is that ?
Shall we run on again ? ''
`` Sit down , '' said the mule , `` or you 'll snap your long stick-legs between the guns . ''
He cocked one ear and listened .
`` Bullocks ! ''
he said .
`` Gun bullocks .
On my word , you and your friends have waked the camp very thoroughly .
It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a gun-bullock . ''
I heard a chain dragging along the ground , and a yoke of the great sulky white bullocks that drag the heavy siege guns when the elephants wo n't go any nearer to the firing , came shouldering along together .
And almost stepping on the chain was another battery mule , calling wildly for `` Billy . ''
`` That 's one of our recruits , '' said the old mule to the troop horse .
`` He 's calling for me .
Here , youngster , stop squealing .
The dark never hurt anybody yet . ''
The gun-bullocks lay down together and began chewing the cud , but the young mule huddled close to Billy .
`` Things ! ''
he said .
`` Fearful and horrible , Billy !
They came into our lines while we were asleep .
D'you think they 'll kill us ? ''
`` I 've a very great mind to give you a number-one kicking , '' said Billy .
`` The idea of a fourteen-hand mule with your training disgracing the battery before this gentleman ! ''
`` Gently , gently ! ''
said the troop-horse .
`` Remember they are always like this to begin with .
The first time I ever saw a man -LRB- it was in Australia when I was a three-year-old -RRB- I ran for half a day , and if I 'd seen a camel , I should have been running still . ''
Nearly all our horses for the English cavalry are brought to India from Australia , and are broken in by the troopers themselves .
`` True enough , '' said Billy .
`` Stop shaking , youngster .
The first time they put the full harness with all its chains on my back I stood on my forelegs and kicked every bit of it off .
I had n't learned the real science of kicking then , but the battery said they had never seen anything like it . ''
`` But this was n't harness or anything that jingled , '' said the young mule .
`` You know I do n't mind that now , Billy .
It was Things like trees , and they fell up and down the lines and bubbled ; and my head-rope broke , and I could n't find my driver , and I could n't find you , Billy , so I ran off with -- with these gentlemen . ''
`` H 'm ! ''
said Billy .
`` As soon as I heard the camels were loose I came away on my own account .
When a battery -- a screw-gun mule calls gun-bullocks gentlemen , he must be very badly shaken up .
Who are you fellows on the ground there ? ''
The gun bullocks rolled their cuds , and answered both together : `` The seventh yoke of the first gun of the Big Gun Battery .
We were asleep when the camels came , but when we were trampled on we got up and walked away .
It is better to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturbed on good bedding .
We told your friend here that there was nothing to be afraid of , but he knew so much that he thought otherwise .
Wah ! ''
They went on chewing .
`` That comes of being afraid , '' said Billy .
`` You get laughed at by gun-bullocks .
I hope you like it , young un . ''
The young mule 's teeth snapped , and I heard him say something about not being afraid of any beefy old bullock in the world .
But the bullocks only clicked their horns together and went on chewing .
`` Now , do n't be angry after you 've been afraid .
That 's the worst kind of cowardice , '' said the troop-horse .
`` Anybody can be forgiven for being scared in the night , I think , if they see things they do n't understand .
We 've broken out of our pickets , again and again , four hundred and fifty of us , just because a new recruit got to telling tales of whip snakes at home in Australia till we were scared to death of the loose ends of our head-ropes . ''
`` That 's all very well in camp , '' said Billy .
`` I 'm not above stampeding myself , for the fun of the thing , when I have n't been out for a day or two .
But what do you do on active service ? ''
`` Oh , that 's quite another set of new shoes , '' said the troop horse .
`` Dick Cunliffe 's on my back then , and drives his knees into me , and all I have to do is to watch where I am putting my feet , and to keep my hind legs well under me , and be bridle-wise . ''
`` What 's bridle-wise ? ''
said the young mule .
`` By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks , '' snorted the troop-horse , `` do you mean to say that you are n't taught to be bridle-wise in your business ?
How can you do anything , unless you can spin round at once when the rein is pressed on your neck ?
It means life or death to your man , and of course that 's life and death to you .
Get round with your hind legs under you the instant you feel the rein on your neck .
If you have n't room to swing round , rear up a little and come round on your hind legs .
That 's being bridle-wise . ''
`` We are n't taught that way , '' said Billy the mule stiffly .
`` We 're taught to obey the man at our head : step off when he says so , and step in when he says so .
I suppose it comes to the same thing .
Now , with all this fine fancy business and rearing , which must be very bad for your hocks , what do you do ? ''
`` That depends , '' said the troop-horse .
`` Generally I have to go in among a lot of yelling , hairy men with knives -- long shiny knives , worse than the farrier 's knives -- and I have to take care that Dick 's boot is just touching the next man 's boot without crushing it .
I can see Dick 's lance to the right of my right eye , and I know I 'm safe .
I should n't care to be the man or horse that stood up to Dick and me when we 're in a hurry . ''
`` Do n't the knives hurt ? ''
said the young mule .
`` Well , I got one cut across the chest once , but that was n't Dick 's fault -- '' `` A lot I should have cared whose fault it was , if it hurt ! ''
said the young mule .
`` You must , '' said the troop horse .
`` If you do n't trust your man , you may as well run away at once .
That 's what some of our horses do , and I do n't blame them .
As I was saying , it was n't Dick 's fault .
The man was lying on the ground , and I stretched myself not to tread on him , and he slashed up at me .
Next time I have to go over a man lying down I shall step on him -- hard . ''
`` H 'm ! ''
said Billy .
`` It sounds very foolish .
Knives are dirty things at any time .
The proper thing to do is to climb up a mountain with a well-balanced saddle , hang on by all four feet and your ears too , and creep and crawl and wriggle along , till you come out hundreds of feet above anyone else on a ledge where there 's just room enough for your hoofs .
Then you stand still and keep quiet -- never ask a man to hold your head , young un -- keep quiet while the guns are being put together , and then you watch the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops ever so far below . ''
`` Do n't you ever trip ? ''
said the troop-horse .
`` They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen 's ear , '' said Billy .
`` Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will upset a mule , but it 's very seldom .
I wish I could show you our business .
It 's beautiful .
Why , it took me three years to find out what the men were driving at .
The science of the thing is never to show up against the sky line , because , if you do , you may get fired at .
Remember that , young un .
Always keep hidden as much as possible , even if you have to go a mile out of your way .
I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing . ''
`` Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing ! ''
said the troop-horse , thinking hard .
`` I could n't stand that .
I should want to charge -- with Dick . ''
`` Oh , no , you would n't .
You know that as soon as the guns are in position they 'll do all the charging .
That 's scientific and neat .
But knives -- pah ! ''
The baggage-camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for some time past , anxious to get a word in edgewise .
Then I heard him say , as he cleared his throat , nervously : `` I -- I -- I have fought a little , but not in that climbing way or that running way . ''
`` No .
Now you mention it , '' said Billy , `` you do n't look as though you were made for climbing or running -- much .
Well , how was it , old Hay-bales ? ''
`` The proper way , '' said the camel .
`` We all sat down -- '' `` Oh , my crupper and breastplate ! ''
said the troop-horse under his breath .
`` Sat down ! ''
`` We sat down -- a hundred of us , '' the camel went on , `` in a big square , and the men piled our packs and saddles , outside the square , and they fired over our backs , the men did , on all sides of the square . ''
`` What sort of men ?
Any men that came along ? ''
said the troop-horse .
`` They teach us in riding school to lie down and let our masters fire across us , but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I 'd trust to do that .
It tickles my girths , and , besides , I ca n't see with my head on the ground . ''
`` What does it matter who fires across you ? ''
said the camel .
`` There are plenty of men and plenty of other camels close by , and a great many clouds of smoke .
I am not frightened then .
I sit still and wait . ''
`` And yet , '' said Billy , `` you dream bad dreams and upset the camp at night .
Well , well !
Before I 'd lie down , not to speak of sitting down , and let a man fire across me , my heels and his head would have something to say to each other .
Did you ever hear anything so awful as that ? ''
There was a long silence , and then one of the gun bullocks lifted up his big head and said , `` This is very foolish indeed .
There is only one way of fighting . ''
`` Oh , go on , '' said Billy .
`` Please do n't mind me .
I suppose you fellows fight standing on your tails ? ''
`` Only one way , '' said the two together .
-LRB- They must have been twins . -RRB-
`` This is that way .
To put all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon as Two Tails trumpets . ''
-LRB- `` Two Tails '' is camp slang for the elephant . -RRB-
`` What does Two Tails trumpet for ? ''
said the young mule .
`` To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the other side .
Two Tails is a great coward .
Then we tug the big gun all together -- Heya -- Hullah !
Heeyah !
Hullah !
We do not climb like cats nor run like calves .
We go across the level plain , twenty yoke of us , till we are unyoked again , and we graze while the big guns talk across the plain to some town with mud walls , and pieces of the wall fall out , and the dust goes up as though many cattle were coming home . ''
`` Oh !
And you choose that time for grazing ? ''
said the young mule .
`` That time or any other .
Eating is always good .
We eat till we are yoked up again and tug the gun back to where Two Tails is waiting for it .
Sometimes there are big guns in the city that speak back , and some of us are killed , and then there is all the more grazing for those that are left .
This is Fate .
None the less , Two Tails is a great coward .
That is the proper way to fight .
We are brothers from Hapur .
Our father was a sacred bull of Shiva .
We have spoken . ''
`` Well , I 've certainly learned something tonight , '' said the troop-horse .
`` Do you gentlemen of the screw-gun battery feel inclined to eat when you are being fired at with big guns , and Two Tails is behind you ? ''
`` About as much as we feel inclined to sit down and let men sprawl all over us , or run into people with knives .
I never heard such stuff .
A mountain ledge , a well-balanced load , a driver you can trust to let you pick your own way , and I 'm your mule .
But -- the other things -- no ! ''
said Billy , with a stamp of his foot .
`` Of course , '' said the troop horse , `` everyone is not made in the same way , and I can quite see that your family , on your father 's side , would fail to understand a great many things . ''
`` Never you mind my family on my father 's side , '' said Billy angrily , for every mule hates to be reminded that his father was a donkey .
`` My father was a Southern gentleman , and he could pull down and bite and kick into rags every horse he came across .
Remember that , you big brown Brumby ! ''
Brumby means wild horse without any breeding .
Imagine the feelings of Sunol if a car-horse called her a `` skate , '' and you can imagine how the Australian horse felt .
I saw the white of his eye glitter in the dark .
`` See here , you son of an imported Malaga jackass , '' he said between his teeth , `` I 'd have you know that I 'm related on my mother 's side to Carbine , winner of the Melbourne Cup , and where I come from we are n't accustomed to being ridden over roughshod by any parrot-mouthed , pig-headed mule in a pop-gun pea-shooter battery .
Are you ready ? ''
`` On your hind legs ! ''
squealed Billy .
They both reared up facing each other , and I was expecting a furious fight , when a gurgly , rumbly voice , called out of the darkness to the right -- `` Children , what are you fighting about there ?
Be quiet . ''
Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust , for neither horse nor mule can bear to listen to an elephant 's voice .
`` It 's Two Tails ! ''
said the troop-horse .
`` I ca n't stand him .
A tail at each end is n't fair ! ''
`` My feelings exactly , '' said Billy , crowding into the troop-horse for company .
`` We 're very alike in some things . ''
`` I suppose we 've inherited them from our mothers , '' said the troop horse .
`` It 's not worth quarreling about .
Hi !
Two Tails , are you tied up ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Two Tails , with a laugh all up his trunk .
`` I 'm picketed for the night .
I 've heard what you fellows have been saying .
But do n't be afraid .
I 'm not coming over . ''
The bullocks and the camel said , half aloud , `` Afraid of Two Tails -- what nonsense ! ''
And the bullocks went on , `` We are sorry that you heard , but it is true .
Two Tails , why are you afraid of the guns when they fire ? ''
`` Well , '' said Two Tails , rubbing one hind leg against the other , exactly like a little boy saying a poem , `` I do n't quite know whether you 'd understand . ''
`` We do n't , but we have to pull the guns , '' said the bullocks .
`` I know it , and I know you are a good deal braver than you think you are .
But it 's different with me .
My battery captain called me a Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day . ''
`` That 's another way of fighting , I suppose ? ''
said Billy , who was recovering his spirits .
`` You do n't know what that means , of course , but I do .
It means betwixt and between , and that is just where I am .
I can see inside my head what will happen when a shell bursts , and you bullocks ca n't . ''
`` I can , '' said the troop-horse .
`` At least a little bit .
I try not to think about it . ''
`` I can see more than you , and I do think about it .
I know there 's a great deal of me to take care of , and I know that nobody knows how to cure me when I 'm sick .
All they can do is to stop my driver 's pay till I get well , and I ca n't trust my driver . ''
`` Ah ! ''
said the troop horse .
`` That explains it .
I can trust Dick . ''
`` You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without making me feel any better .
I know just enough to be uncomfortable , and not enough to go on in spite of it . ''
`` We do not understand , '' said the bullocks .
`` I know you do n't .
I 'm not talking to you .
You do n't know what blood is . ''
`` We do , '' said the bullocks .
`` It is red stuff that soaks into the ground and smells . ''
The troop-horse gave a kick and a bound and a snort .
`` Do n't talk of it , '' he said .
`` I can smell it now , just thinking of it .
It makes me want to run -- when I have n't Dick on my back . ''
`` But it is not here , '' said the camel and the bullocks .
`` Why are you so stupid ? ''
`` It 's vile stuff , '' said Billy .
`` I do n't want to run , but I do n't want to talk about it . ''
`` There you are ! ''
said Two Tails , waving his tail to explain .
`` Surely .
Yes , we have been here all night , '' said the bullocks .
Two Tails stamped his foot till the iron ring on it jingled .
`` Oh , I 'm not talking to you .
You ca n't see inside your heads . ''
`` No .
We see out of our four eyes , '' said the bullocks .
`` We see straight in front of us . ''
`` If I could do that and nothing else , you would n't be needed to pull the big guns at all .
If I was like my captain -- he can see things inside his head before the firing begins , and he shakes all over , but he knows too much to run away -- if I was like him I could pull the guns .
But if I were as wise as all that I should never be here .
I should be a king in the forest , as I used to be , sleeping half the day and bathing when I liked .
I have n't had a good bath for a month . ''
`` That 's all very fine , '' said Billy .
`` But giving a thing a long name does n't make it any better . ''
`` H'sh ! ''
said the troop horse .
`` I think I understand what Two Tails means . ''
`` You 'll understand better in a minute , '' said Two Tails angrily .
`` Now you just explain to me why you do n't like this ! ''
He began trumpeting furiously at the top of his trumpet .
`` Stop that ! ''
said Billy and the troop horse together , and I could hear them stamp and shiver .
An elephant 's trumpeting is always nasty , especially on a dark night .
`` I sha n't stop , '' said Two Tails .
`` Wo n't you explain that , please ?
Hhrrmph !
Rrrt !
Rrrmph !
Rrrhha ! ''
Then he stopped suddenly , and I heard a little whimper in the dark , and knew that Vixen had found me at last .
She knew as well as I did that if there is one thing in the world the elephant is more afraid of than another it is a little barking dog .
So she stopped to bully Two Tails in his pickets , and yapped round his big feet .
Two Tails shuffled and squeaked .
`` Go away , little dog ! ''
he said .
`` Do n't snuff at my ankles , or I 'll kick at you .
Good little dog -- nice little doggie , then !
Go home , you yelping little beast !
Oh , why does n't someone take her away ?
She 'll bite me in a minute . ''
`` Seems to me , '' said Billy to the troop horse , `` that our friend Two Tails is afraid of most things .
Now , if I had a full meal for every dog I 've kicked across the parade-ground I should be as fat as Two Tails nearly . ''
I whistled , and Vixen ran up to me , muddy all over , and licked my nose , and told me a long tale about hunting for me all through the camp .
I never let her know that I understood beast talk , or she would have taken all sorts of liberties .
So I buttoned her into the breast of my overcoat , and Two Tails shuffled and stamped and growled to himself .
`` Extraordinary !
Most extraordinary ! ''
he said .
`` It runs in our family .
Now , where has that nasty little beast gone to ? ''
I heard him feeling about with his trunk .
`` We all seem to be affected in various ways , '' he went on , blowing his nose .
`` Now , you gentlemen were alarmed , I believe , when I trumpeted . ''
`` Not alarmed , exactly , '' said the troop-horse , `` but it made me feel as though I had hornets where my saddle ought to be .
Do n't begin again . ''
`` I 'm frightened of a little dog , and the camel here is frightened by bad dreams in the night . ''
`` It is very lucky for us that we have n't all got to fight in the same way , '' said the troop-horse .
`` What I want to know , '' said the young mule , who had been quiet for a long time -- `` what I want to know is , why we have to fight at all . ''
`` Because we 're told to , '' said the troop-horse , with a snort of contempt .
`` Orders , '' said Billy the mule , and his teeth snapped .
`` Hukm hai ! ''
-LRB- It is an order ! -RRB-
, said the camel with a gurgle , and Two Tails and the bullocks repeated , `` Hukm hai ! ''
`` Yes , but who gives the orders ? ''
said the recruit-mule .
`` The man who walks at your head -- Or sits on your back -- Or holds the nose rope -- Or twists your tail , '' said Billy and the troop-horse and the camel and the bullocks one after the other .
`` But who gives them the orders ? ''
`` Now you want to know too much , young un , '' said Billy , `` and that is one way of getting kicked .
All you have to do is to obey the man at your head and ask no questions . ''
`` He 's quite right , '' said Two Tails .
`` I ca n't always obey , because I 'm betwixt and between .
But Billy 's right .
Obey the man next to you who gives the order , or you 'll stop all the battery , besides getting a thrashing . ''
The gun-bullocks got up to go .
`` Morning is coming , '' they said .
`` We will go back to our lines .
It is true that we only see out of our eyes , and we are not very clever .
But still , we are the only people to-night who have not been afraid .
Good-night , you brave people . ''
Nobody answered , and the troop-horse said , to change the conversation , `` Where 's that little dog ?
A dog means a man somewhere about . ''
`` Here I am , '' yapped Vixen , `` under the gun tail with my man .
You big , blundering beast of a camel you , you upset our tent .
My man 's very angry . ''
`` Phew ! ''
said the bullocks .
`` He must be white ! ''
`` Of course he is , '' said Vixen .
`` Do you suppose I 'm looked after by a black bullock-driver ? ''
`` Huah !
Ouach !
Ugh ! ''
said the bullocks .
`` Let us get away quickly . ''
They plunged forward in the mud , and managed somehow to run their yoke on the pole of an ammunition wagon , where it jammed .
`` Now you have done it , '' said Billy calmly .
`` Do n't struggle .
You 're hung up till daylight .
What on earth 's the matter ? ''
The bullocks went off into the long hissing snorts that Indian cattle give , and pushed and crowded and slued and stamped and slipped and nearly fell down in the mud , grunting savagely .
`` You 'll break your necks in a minute , '' said the troop-horse .
`` What 's the matter with white men ?
I live with 'em . ''
`` They -- eat -- us !
Pull ! ''
said the near bullock .
The yoke snapped with a twang , and they lumbered off together .
I never knew before what made Indian cattle so scared of Englishmen .
We eat beef -- a thing that no cattle-driver touches -- and of course the cattle do not like it .
`` May I be flogged with my own pad-chains !
Who 'd have thought of two big lumps like those losing their heads ? ''
said Billy .
`` Never mind .
I 'm going to look at this man .
Most of the white men , I know , have things in their pockets , '' said the troop-horse .
`` I 'll leave you , then .
I ca n't say I 'm over-fond of 'em myself .
Besides , white men who have n't a place to sleep in are more than likely to be thieves , and I 've a good deal of Government property on my back .
Come along , young un , and we 'll go back to our lines .
Good-night , Australia !
See you on parade to-morrow , I suppose .
Good-night , old Hay-bale !
-- try to control your feelings , wo n't you ?
Good-night , Two Tails !
If you pass us on the ground tomorrow , do n't trumpet .
It spoils our formation . ''
Billy the Mule stumped off with the swaggering limp of an old campaigner , as the troop-horse 's head came nuzzling into my breast , and I gave him biscuits , while Vixen , who is a most conceited little dog , told him fibs about the scores of horses that she and I kept .
`` I 'm coming to the parade to-morrow in my dog-cart , '' she said .
`` Where will you be ? ''
`` On the left hand of the second squadron .
I set the time for all my troop , little lady , '' he said politely .
`` Now I must go back to Dick .
My tail 's all muddy , and he 'll have two hours ' hard work dressing me for parade . ''
The big parade of all the thirty thousand men was held that afternoon , and Vixen and I had a good place close to the Viceroy and the Amir of Afghanistan , with high , big black hat of astrakhan wool and the great diamond star in the center .
The first part of the review was all sunshine , and the regiments went by in wave upon wave of legs all moving together , and guns all in a line , till our eyes grew dizzy .
Then the cavalry came up , to the beautiful cavalry canter of `` Bonnie Dundee , '' and Vixen cocked her ear where she sat on the dog-cart .
The second squadron of the Lancers shot by , and there was the troop-horse , with his tail like spun silk , his head pulled into his breast , one ear forward and one back , setting the time for all his squadron , his legs going as smoothly as waltz music .
Then the big guns came by , and I saw Two Tails and two other elephants harnessed in line to a forty-pounder siege gun , while twenty yoke of oxen walked behind .
The seventh pair had a new yoke , and they looked rather stiff and tired .
Last came the screw guns , and Billy the mule carried himself as though he commanded all the troops , and his harness was oiled and polished till it winked .
I gave a cheer all by myself for Billy the mule , but he never looked right or left .
The rain began to fall again , and for a while it was too misty to see what the troops were doing .
They had made a big half circle across the plain , and were spreading out into a line .
That line grew and grew and grew till it was three-quarters of a mile long from wing to wing -- one solid wall of men , horses , and guns .
Then it came on straight toward the Viceroy and the Amir , and as it got nearer the ground began to shake , like the deck of a steamer when the engines are going fast .
Unless you have been there you can not imagine what a frightening effect this steady come-down of troops has on the spectators , even when they know it is only a review .
I looked at the Amir .
Up till then he had not shown the shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything else .
But now his eyes began to get bigger and bigger , and he picked up the reins on his horse 's neck and looked behind him .
For a minute it seemed as though he were going to draw his sword and slash his way out through the English men and women in the carriages at the back .
Then the advance stopped dead , the ground stood still , the whole line saluted , and thirty bands began to play all together .
That was the end of the review , and the regiments went off to their camps in the rain , and an infantry band struck up with -- The animals went in two by two , Hurrah !
The animals went in two by two , The elephant and the battery mul ' , and they all got into the Ark For to get out of the rain !
Then I heard an old grizzled , long-haired Central Asian chief , who had come down with the Amir , asking questions of a native officer .
`` Now , '' said he , `` in what manner was this wonderful thing done ? ''
And the officer answered , `` An order was given , and they obeyed . ''
`` But are the beasts as wise as the men ? ''
said the chief .
`` They obey , as the men do .
Mule , horse , elephant , or bullock , he obeys his driver , and the driver his sergeant , and the sergeant his lieutenant , and the lieutenant his captain , and the captain his major , and the major his colonel , and the colonel his brigadier commanding three regiments , and the brigadier the general , who obeys the Viceroy , who is the servant of the Empress .
Thus it is done . ''
`` Would it were so in Afghanistan ! ''
said the chief , `` for there we obey only our own wills . ''
`` And for that reason , '' said the native officer , twirling his mustache , `` your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our Viceroy . ''
Parade Song of the Camp Animals ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules , The wisdom of our foreheads , the cunning of our knees ; We bowed our necks to service : they ne'er were loosed again , -- Make way there -- way for the ten-foot teams Of the Forty-Pounder train !
GUN BULLOCKS Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball , And what they know of powder upsets them one and all ; Then we come into action and tug the guns again -- Make way there -- way for the twenty yoke Of the Forty-Pounder train !
CAVALRY HORSES By the brand on my shoulder , the finest of tunes Is played by the Lancers , Hussars , and Dragoons , And it 's sweeter than `` Stables '' or `` Water '' to me -- The Cavalry Canter of `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
Then feed us and break us and handle and groom , And give us good riders and plenty of room , And launch us in column of squadron and see The way of the war-horse to `` Bonnie Dundee '' !
SCREW-GUN MULES As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill , The path was lost in rolling stones , but we went forward still ; For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !
Good luck to every sergeant , then , that lets us pick our road ; Bad luck to all the driver-men that can not pack a load : For we can wriggle and climb , my lads , and turn up everywhere , Oh , it 's our delight on a mountain height , with a leg or two to spare !
COMMISSARIAT CAMELS We have n't a camelty tune of our own To help us trollop along , But every neck is a hair trombone -LRB- Rtt-ta-ta-ta !
is a hair trombone ! -RRB-
And this our marching-song : Ca n't !
Do n't !
Sha n't !
Wo n't !
Pass it along the line !
Somebody 's pack has slid from his back , Wish it were only mine !
Somebody 's load has tipped off in the road -- Cheer for a halt and a row !
Urrr !
Yarrh !
Grr !
Arrh !
Somebody 's catching it now !
ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER Children of the Camp are we , Serving each in his degree ; Children of the yoke and goad , Pack and harness , pad and load .
See our line across the plain , Like a heel-rope bent again , Reaching , writhing , rolling far , Sweeping all away to war !
While the men that walk beside , Dusty , silent , heavy-eyed , Can not tell why we or they March and suffer day by day .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Old_Mr._Toad.txt.out
I JIMMY SKUNK IS PUZZLED Old Mother West Wind had just come down from the Purple Hills and turned loose her children , the Merry Little Breezes , from the big bag in which she had been carrying them .
They were very lively and very merry as they danced and raced across the Green Meadows in all directions , for it was good to be back there once more .
Old Mother West Wind almost sighed as she watched them for a few minutes .
She felt that she would like to join them .
Always the springtime made her feel this way , -- young , mad , carefree , and happy .
But she had work to do .
She had to turn the windmill to pump water for Farmer Brown 's cows , and this was only one of many mills standing idle as they waited for her .
So she puffed her cheeks out and started about her business .
Jimmy Skunk sat at the top of the hill that overlooks the Green Meadows and watched her out of sight .
Then he started to amble down the Lone Little Path to look for some beetles .
He was ambling along in his lazy way , for you know he never hurries , when he heard some one puffing and blowing behind him .
Of course he turned to see who it was , and he was greatly surprised when he discovered Old Mr. Toad .
Yes , Sir , it was Old Mr. Toad , and he seemed in a great hurry .
He was quite short of breath , but he was hopping along in the most determined way as if he were in a great hurry to get somewhere .
Now it is a very unusual thing for Mr. Toad to hurry , very unusual indeed .
As a rule he hops a few steps and then sits down to think it over .
Jimmy had never before seen him hop more than a few steps unless he was trying to get away from danger , from Mr. Blacksnake for instance .
Of course the first thing Jimmy thought of was Mr. Blacksnake , and he looked for him .
But there was no sign of Mr. Blacksnake nor of any other danger .
Then he looked very hard at Old Mr. Toad , and he saw right away that Old Mr. Toad did n't seem to be frightened at all , only very determined , and as if he had something important on his mind .
`` Well , well , '' exclaimed Jimmy Skunk , `` whatever has got into those long hind legs of yours to make them work so fast ? ''
Old Mr. Toad did n't say a word , but simply tried to get past Jimmy and keep on his way .
Jimmy put out one hand and turned Old Mr. Toad right over on his back , where he kicked and struggled in an effort to get on his feet again , and looked very ridiculous .
`` Do n't you know that it is n't polite not to speak when you are spoken to ? ''
demanded Jimmy severely , though his eyes twinkled .
`` I -- I beg your pardon .
I did n't have any breath to spare , '' panted Old Mr. Toad .
`` You see I 'm in a great hurry . ''
`` Yes , I see , '' replied Jimmy .
`` But do n't you know that it is n't good for the health to hurry so ?
Now , pray , what are you in such a hurry for ?
I do n't see anything to run away from . ''
`` I 'm not running away , '' retorted Old Mr. Toad indignantly .
`` I 've business to attend to at the Smiling Pool , and I 'm late as it is . ''
`` Business ! ''
exclaimed Jimmy as if he could hardly believe his ears .
`` What business have you at the Smiling Pool ? ''
`` That is my own affair , '' retorted Old Mr. Toad , `` but if you really want to know , I 'll tell you .
I have a very important part in the spring chorus , and I 'm going down there to sing .
I have a very beautiful voice . ''
That was too much for Jimmy Skunk .
He just lay down and rolled over and over with laughter .
The idea of any one so homely , almost ugly-looking , as Mr. Toad thinking that he had a beautiful voice !
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho ! ''
roared Jimmy .
When at last he stopped because he could n't laugh any more , he discovered that Old Mr. Toad was on his way again .
Hop , hop , hipperty-hop , hop , hop , hipperty-hop went Mr. Toad .
Jimmy watched him , and he confessed that he was puzzled .
II JIMMY SKUNK CONSULTS HIS FRIENDS Jimmy Skunk scratched his head thoughtfully as he watched Old Mr. Toad go down the Lone Little Path , hop , hop , hipperty-hop , towards the Smiling Pool .
He certainly was puzzled , was Jimmy Skunk .
If Old Mr. Toad had told him that he could fly , Jimmy would not have been more surprised , or found it harder to believe than that Old Mr. Toad had a beautiful voice .
The truth is , Jimmy did n't believe it .
He thought that Old Mr. Toad was trying to fool him .
Presently Peter Rabbit came along .
He found Jimmy Skunk sitting in a brown study .
He had quite forgotten to look for fat beetles , and when he forgets to do that you may make up your mind that Jimmy is doing some hard thinking .
`` Hello , old Striped-coat , what have you got on your mind this fine morning ? ''
cried Peter Rabbit .
`` Him , '' said Jimmy simply , pointing down the Lone Little Path .
Peter looked .
`` Do you mean Old Mr. Toad ! ''
he asked .
Jimmy nodded .
`` Do you see anything queer about him ? ''
he asked in his turn .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Do you see anything queer about him ? ''
he asked . -RSB-
Peter stared down the Lone Little Path .
`` No , '' he replied , `` except that he seems in a great hurry . ''
`` That 's just it , '' Jimmy returned promptly .
`` Did you ever see him hurry unless he was frightened ? ''
Peter confessed that he never had .
`` Well , he is n't frightened now , yet just look at him go , '' retorted Jimmy .
`` Says he has got a beautiful voice , and that he has to take part in the spring chorus at the Smiling Pool and that he is late . ''
Peter looked very hard at Jimmy to see if he was fooling or telling the truth .
Then he began to laugh .
`` Old Mr. Toad sing !
The very idea ! ''
he cried .
`` He can sing about as much as I can , and that is not at all . ''
Jimmy grinned .
`` I think he 's crazy , if you ask me , '' said he .
`` And yet he was just as earnest about it as if it were really so .
I think he must have eaten something that has gone to his head .
There 's Unc ' Billy Possum over there .
Let 's ask him what he thinks . ''
So Jimmy and Peter joined Unc ' Billy , and Jimmy told the story about Old Mr. Toad all over again .
Unc ' Billy chuckled and laughed just as they had at the idea of Old Mr. Toad 's saying he had a beautiful voice .
But Unc ' Billy has a shrewd little head on his shoulders .
After a few minutes he stopped laughing .
`` Ah done learn a right smart long time ago that Ah don ' know all there is to know about mah neighbors , '' said he .
`` We-uns done think of Brer Toad as ugly-lookin ' fo ' so long that we-uns may have overlooked something .
Ah don ' reckon Brer Toad can sing , but Ah ` lows that perhaps he thinks he can .
What do you-alls say to we-uns going down to the Smiling Pool and finding out what he really is up to ? ''
`` The very thing ! ''
cried Peter , kicking up his heels .
You know Peter is always ready to go anywhere or do anything that will satisfy his curiosity .
Jimmy Skunk thought it over for a few minutes , and then he decided that as he had n't anything in particular to do , and as he might find some fat beetles on the way , he would go too .
So off they started after Old Mr. Toad , Peter Rabbit in the lead as usual , Unc ' Billy Possum next , grinning as only he can grin , and in the rear Jimmy Skunk , taking his time and keeping a sharp eye out for fat beetles .
III THE HUNT FOR OLD MR. TOAD Now , though Old Mr. Toad was hurrying as fast as ever he could and was quite out of breath , he was n't getting along very fast compared with the way Peter Rabbit or Jimmy Skunk or Unc ' Billy Possum could cover the ground .
You see he can not make long jumps like his cousin , Grandfather Frog , but only little short hops .
So Peter and Jimmy and Unc ' Billy took their time about following him .
They stopped to hunt for fat beetles for Jimmy Skunk , and at every little patch of sweet clover for Peter Rabbit to help himself .
Once they wasted a lot of time while Unc ' Billy Possum hunted for a nest of Carol the Meadow Lark , on the chance that he would find some fresh eggs there .
He did n't find the nest for the very good reason that Carol had n't built one yet .
Peter was secretly glad .
You know he does n't eat eggs , and he is always sorry for his feathered friends when their eggs are stolen .
Half way across the Green Meadows they stopped to play with the Merry Little Breezes , and because it was very pleasant there , they played longer than they realized .
When at last they started on again , Old Mr. Toad was out of sight .
You see all the time he had kept right on going , hop , hop , hipperty-hop .
`` Never mind , '' said Peter , `` we can catch up with him easy enough , he 's such a slow-poke . ''
But even a slow-poke who keeps right on doing a thing without wasting any time always gets somewhere sooner or later , very often sooner than those who are naturally quicker , but who waste their time .
So it was with Old Mr. Toad .
He kept right on , hop , hop , hipperty-hop , while the others were playing , and so it happened that when at last Peter and Jimmy and Unc ' Billy reached the Smiling Pool , they had n't caught another glimpse of Old Mr. Toad .
`` Do you suppose he hid somewhere , and we passed him ? ''
asked Peter .
Unc ' Billy shook his head .
`` Ah don ' reckon so , '' said he .
`` We-uns done been foolin ' away our time , an ' Brer Toad done stole a march on us .
Ah reckons we-uns will find him sittin ' on the bank here somewhere . ''
So right away the three separated to look for Old Mr. Toad .
All along the bank of the Smiling Pool they looked .
They peeped under old leaves and sticks .
They looked in every place where Old Mr. Toad might have hidden , but not a trace of him did they find .
`` Tra-la-la-lee !
Oka-chee !
Oka-chee !
Happy am I as I can be ! ''
sang Mr. Redwing , as he swayed to and fro among the bulrushes .
`` Say , Mr. Redwing , have you seen Old Mr. Toad ? ''
called Peter Rabbit .
`` No , '' replied Mr. Redwing .
`` Is that whom you fellows are looking for ?
I wondered if you had lost something .
What do you want with Old Mr. Toad ? ''
Peter explained how they had followed Old Mr. Toad just to see what he really was up to .
`` Of course we know that he has n't any more voice than I have , '' declared Peter , `` but we are curious to know if he really thinks he has , and why he should be in such a hurry to reach the Smiling Pool .
It looks to us as if the spring has made Old Mr. Toad crazy . ''
`` Oh , that 's it , is it ? ''
replied Mr. Redwing , his bright eyes twinkling .
`` Some people do n't know as much as they might .
I 've been wondering where Old Mr. Toad was , and I 'm ever so glad to learn that he has n't forgotten that he has a very important part in our beautiful spring chorus . ''
Then once more Mr. Redwing began to sing .
IV PETER RABBIT FINDS OLD MR. TOAD It is n't often that Peter Rabbit is truly envious , but sometimes in the joyousness of spring he is .
He envies the birds because they can pour out in beautiful song the joy that is in them .
The only way he can express his feelings is by kicking his long heels , jumping about , and such foolish things .
While that gives Peter a great deal of satisfaction , it does n't add to the joy of other people as do the songs of the birds , and you know to give joy to others is to add to your own joy .
So there are times when Peter wishes he could sing .
He was wishing this very thing now , as he sat on the bank of the Smiling Pool , listening to the great spring chorus .
`` Tra-la-la-lee !
Oka-chee !
Oka-chee !
There 's joy in the spring for you and for me . ''
sang Redwing the Blackbird from the bulrushes .
From over in the Green Meadows rose the clear lilt of Carol the Meadow Lark , and among the alders just where the Laughing Brook ran into the Smiling Pool a flood of happiness was pouring from the throat of Little Friend the Song Sparrow .
Winsome Bluebird 's sweet , almost plaintive , whistle seemed to fairly float in the air , so that it was hard to say just where it did come from , and in the top of the Big Hickory-tree , Welcome Robin was singing as if his heart were bursting with joy .
Even Sammy Jay was adding a beautiful , bell-like note instead of his usual harsh scream .
As for the Smiling Pool , it seemed as if the very water itself sang , for a mighty chorus of clear piping voices from unseen singers rose from all around its banks .
Peter knew who those singers were , although look as he would he could see none of them .
They were hylas , the tiny cousins of Stickytoes the Tree Toad .
Listening to all these joyous voices , Peter forgot for a time what had brought him to the Smiling Pool .
But Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum did n't forget .
They were still hunting for Old Mr. Toad .
`` Well , old Mr. Dreamer , have you found him yet ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk , stealing up behind Peter and poking him in the back .
Peter came to himself with a start .
`` No , '' said he .
`` I was just listening and wishing that I could sing , too .
Do n't you ever wish you could sing , Jimmy ? ''
`` No , '' replied Jimmy .
`` I never waste time wishing I could do things it was never meant I should do .
It 's funny where Old Mr. Toad is .
He said that he was coming down here to sing , and Redwing the Blackbird seemed to be expecting him .
I 've looked everywhere I can think of without finding him , but I do n't believe in giving up without another try .
Stop your dreaming and come help us hunt . ''
So Peter stopped his dreaming and joined in the search .
Now there was one place where neither Peter nor Jimmy nor Unc ' Billy had thought of looking .
That was in the Smiling Pool itself .
They just took it for granted that Old Mr. Toad was somewhere on the bank .
Presently Peter came to a place where the bank was very low and the water was shallow for quite a little distance out in the Smiling Pool .
From out of that shallow water came the piping voice of a hyla , and Peter stopped to stare , trying to see the tiny singer .
Suddenly he jumped right up in the air with surprise .
There was a familiar-looking head sticking out of the water .
Peter had found Old Mr. Toad !
V OLD MR. TOAD 'S MUSIC BAG Never think that you have learned All there is to know .
That 's the surest way of all Ignorance to show .
`` I 've found Old Mr. Toad ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit , hurrying after Jimmy Skunk .
`` Where ? ''
demanded Jimmy .
`` In the water , '' declared Peter .
`` He 's sitting right over there where the water is shallow , and he did n't notice me at all .
Let 's get Unc ' Billy , and then creep over to the edge of the Smiling Pool and watch to see if Old Mr. Toad really does try to sing . ''
So they hunted up Unc ' Billy Possum , and the three stole very softly over to the edge of the Smiling Pool , where the bank was low and the water shallow .
Sure enough , there sat Old Mr. Toad with just his head out of water .
And while they were watching him , something very strange happened .
`` What -- what 's the matter with him ? ''
whispered Peter , his big eyes looking as if they might pop out of his head .
`` If he do n't watch out , he 'll blow up and bust ! ''
exclaimed Jimmy .
-LSB- Illustration : `` If he do n't watch out , he 'll blow up and bust ! ''
exclaimed Jimmy . -RSB-
`` Listen ! ''
whispered Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Do mah ol' ears hear right ?
` Pears to me that that song is coming right from where Brer Toad is sitting . ''
It certainly did appear so , and of all the songs that glad spring day there was none sweeter .
Indeed there were few as sweet .
The only trouble was the song was so very short .
It lasted only for two or three seconds .
And when it ended , Old Mr. Toad looked quite his natural self again ; just as commonplace , almost ugly , as ever .
Peter looked at Jimmy Skunk , Jimmy looked at Unc ' Billy Possum , and Unc ' Billy looked at Peter .
And no one had a word to say .
Then all three looked back at Old Mr. Toad .
And even as they looked , his throat began to swell and swell and swell , until it was no wonder that Jimmy Skunk had thought that he was in danger of blowing up .
And then , when it stopped swelling , there came again those beautiful little notes , so sweet and tremulous that Peter actually held his breath to listen .
There was no doubt that Old Mr. Toad was singing just as he had said he was going to , and it was just as true that his song was one of the sweetest if not the sweetest of all the chorus from and around the Smiling Pool .
It was very hard to believe , but Peter and Jimmy and Unc ' Billy both saw and heard , and that was enough .
Their respect for Old Mr. Toad grew tremendously as they listened .
`` How does he do it ? ''
whispered Peter .
`` With that bag under his chin , of course , '' replied Jimmy Skunk .
`` Do n't you see it 's only when that is swelled out that he sings ?
It 's a regular music bag .
And I did n't know he had any such bag there at all . ''
`` I wish , '' said Peter Rabbit , feeling of his throat , `` that I had a music bag like that in my throat . ''
And then he joined in the laugh of Jimmy and Unc ' Billy , but still with something of a look of wistfulness in his eyes .
VI PETER DISCOVERS SOMETHING MORE There are stranger things in the world to-day Than ever you dreamed could be .
There 's beauty in some of the commonest things If only you 've eyes to see .
Ever since Peter Rabbit was a little chap and had first ran away from home , he had known Old Mr. Toad , and never once had Peter suspected that he could sing .
Also he had thought Old Mr. Toad almost ugly-looking , and he knew that most of his neighbors thought the same way .
They were fond of Old Mr. Toad , for he was always good-natured and attended strictly to his own affairs ; but they liked to poke fun at him , and as for there being anything beautiful about him , such a thing never entered their heads .
Now that they had discovered that he really has a very beautiful voice , they began to look on him with a great deal more respect .
This was especially so with Peter .
He got in the habit of going over to the Smiling Pool every day , when the way was clear , just to sit on the bank and listen to Old Mr. Toad .
`` Why did n't you ever tell us before that you could sing ? ''
he asked one day , as Old Mr. Toad looked up at him from the Smiling Pool .
`` What was the use of wasting my breath ? ''
demanded Old Mr. Toad .
`` You would n't have believed me if I had .
You did n't believe me when I did tell you . ''
Peter knew that this was true , and he could n't find any answer ready .
At last he ventured another question .
`` Why have n't I ever heard you sing before ? ''
`` You have , '' replied Old Mr. Toad tartly .
`` I sang right in this very place last spring , and the spring before , and the spring before that .
You 've sat on that very bank lots of times while I was singing .
The trouble with you , Peter , is that you do n't use your eyes or your ears . ''
Peter looked more foolish than ever .
But he ventured another question .
It would n't be Peter to let a chance for questions go by .
`` Have I ever heard you singing up on the meadows or in the Old Orchard ? ''
`` No , '' replied Old Mr. Toad , `` I only sing in the springtime .
That 's the time for singing .
I just have to sing then .
In the summer it is too hot , and in the winter I sleep .
I always return to my old home to sing .
You know I was born here .
All my family gathers here in the spring to sing , so of course I come too . ''
Old Mr. Toad filled out his queer music bag under his chin and began to sing again .
Peter watched him .
Now it just happened that Old Mr. Toad was facing him , and so Peter looked down straight into his eyes .
He never had looked into Mr. Toad 's eyes before , and now he just stared and stared , for it came over him that those eyes were very beautiful , very beautiful indeed .
`` Oh ! ''
he exclaimed , `` what beautiful eyes you have , Mr. Toad ! ''
`` So I 've been told before , '' replied Old Mr. Toad .
`` My family always has had beautiful eyes .
There is an old saying that every Toad has jewels in his head , but of course he has n't , not real jewels .
It is just the beautiful eyes .
Excuse me , Peter , but I 'm needed in that chorus . ''
Old Mr. Toad once more swelled out his throat and began to sing .
Peter watched him a while longer , then hopped away to the dear Old Briarpatch , and he was very thoughtful .
`` Never again will I call anybody homely and ugly until I know all about him , '' said Peter , which was a very wise decision .
Do n't you think so ?
VII A SHADOW PASSES OVER THE SMILING POOL Here 's what Mr. Toad says ; Heed it well , my dear : `` Time to watch for clouds is When the sky is clear . ''
He says that that is the reason that he lives to a good old age , does Old Mr. Toad .
I suppose he means that when the sky is cloudy , everybody is looking for rain and is prepared for it , but when the sun is shining , most people forget that there is such a thing as a storm , so when it comes suddenly very few are prepared for it .
It is the same way with danger and trouble .
So Old Mr. Toad very wisely watches out when there seems to be the least need of it , and he finds it always pays .
It was a beautiful spring evening .
Over back of the Purple Hills to which Old Mother West Wind had taken her children , the Merry Little Breezes , and behind which jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had gone to bed , there was still a faint , clear light .
But over the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool the shadows had drawn a curtain of soft dusk which in the Green Forest became black .
The little stars looked down from the sky and twinkled just to see their reflections twinkle back at them from the Smiling Pool .
And there and all around it was perfect peace .
Jerry Muskrat swam back and forth , making little silver lines on the surface of the Smiling Pool and squeaking contentedly , for it was the hour which he loves best .
Little Friend the Song Sparrow had tucked his head under his wing and gone to sleep among the alders along the Laughing Brook and Redwing the Blackbird had done the same thing among the bulrushes .
All the feathered songsters who had made joyous the bright day had gone to bed .
But this did not mean that the glad spring chorus was silent .
Oh , my , no !
No indeed !
The Green Meadows were silent , and the Green Forest was silent , but as if to make up for this , the sweet singers of the Smiling Pool , the hylas and the frogs and Old Mr. Toad , were pouring out their gladness as if they had not been singing most of the departed day .
You see it was the hour they love best of all , the hour which seems to them just made for singing , and they were doing their best to tell Old Mother Nature how they love her , and how glad they were that she had brought back sweet Mistress Spring to waken them from their long sleep .
It was so peaceful and beautiful there that it did n't seem possible that danger of any kind could be lurking near .
But Old Mr. Toad , swelling out that queer music bag in his throat and singing with all his might , never once forgot that wise saying of his , and so he was the first to see what looked like nothing so much as a little detached bit of the blackness of the Green Forest floating out towards the Smiling Pool .
Instantly he stopped singing .
Now that was a signal .
When he stopped singing , his nearest neighbor stopped singing , then the next one and the next , and in a minute there was n't a sound from the Smiling Pool save the squeak of Jerry Muskrat hidden among the bulrushes .
That great chorus stopped as abruptly as the electric lights go out when you press a button .
Back and forth over the Smiling Pool , this way and that way , floated the shadow , but there was no sign of any living thing in the Smiling Pool .
After awhile the shadow floated away over the Green Meadows without a sound .
`` Hooty the Owl did n't get one of us that time , '' said Old Mr. Toad to his nearest neighbor with a chuckle of satisfaction .
Then he swelled out his music bag and began to sing again .
And at once , as abruptly as it had stopped , the great chorus began again as joyous as before , for nothing had happened to bring sadness as might have but for the watchfulness of Old Mr. Toad .
VIII OLD MR. TOAD 'S BABIES The Smiling Pool 's a nursery Where all the sunny day A thousand funny babies Are taught while at their play .
Really the Smiling Pool is a sort of kindergarten , one of the most interesting kindergartens in the world .
Little Joe Otter 's children learn to swim there .
So do Jerry Muskrat 's babies and those of Billy Mink , the Trout and Minnow babies , and a lot more .
And there you will find the children and grandchildren of Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad .
Peter Rabbit had known for a long time about the Frog babies , but though he knew that Old Mr. Toad was own cousin to Grandfather Frog , he had n't known anything about Toad babies , except that at a certain time in the year he was forever running across tiny Toads , especially on rainy days , and each little Toad was just like Old Mr. Toad , except for his size .
Peter had heard it said that Toads rain down from the sky , and sometimes it seems as if this must be so .
Of course he knew it could n't be , but it puzzled him a great deal .
There would n't be a Toad in sight .
Then it would begin to rain , and right away there would be so many tiny Toads that it was hard work to jump without stepping on some .
He remembered this as he went to pay his daily call on Old Mr. Toad in the Smiling Pool and listen to his sweet song .
He had n't seen any little Toads this year , but he remembered his experiences with them in other years , and he meant to ask about them .
Old Mr. Toad was sitting in his usual place , but he was n't singing .
He was staring at something in the water .
When Peter said `` Good morning , '' Old Mr. Toad did n't seem to hear him .
He was too much interested in what he was watching .
Peter stared down into the water to see what was interesting Old Mr. Toad so much , but he saw nothing but a lot of wriggling tadpoles .
`` What are you staring at so , Mr. Sobersides ? ''
asked Peter , speaking a little louder than before .
Old Mr. Toad turned and looked at Peter , and there was a look of great pride in his face .
`` I 'm just watching my babies .
Are n't they lovely ? ''
said he .
Peter stared harder than ever , but he could n't see anything that looked like a baby Toad .
`` Where are they ? ''
asked he .
`` I do n't see any babies but those of Grandfather Frog , and if you ask me , I always did think tadpoles about the homeliest things in th ' world . ''
Old Mr. Toad grew indignant .
`` Those are not Grandfather Frog 's children ; they 're mine ! ''
he sputtered .
`` And I 'll have you know that they are the most beautiful babies in th ' world ! ''
Peter drew a hand across his mouth to hide a smile .
`` I beg your pardon , Mr. Toad , '' said he .
`` I -- I thought all tadpoles were Frog babies .
They all look alike to me . ''
`` Well , they 're not , '' declared Old Mr. Toad .
`` How any one can mistake my babies for their cousins I can not understand .
Now mine are beautiful , while -- '' `` Chug-arum ! ''
interrupted the great deep voice of Grandfather Frog .
`` What are you talking about ?
Why , your babies are no more to be compared with my babies for real beauty than nothing at all !
I 'll leave it to Peter if they are . ''
But Peter wisely held his tongue .
To tell the truth , he could n't see beauty in any of them .
To him they were all just wriggling pollywogs .
They were more interesting now , because he had found out that some of them were Toads and some were Frogs , and he had n't known before that baby Toads begin life as tadpoles , but he had no intention of being drawn into the dispute now waxing furious between Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad .
IX THE SMILING POOL KINDERGARTEN Play a little , learn a little , grow a little too ; That 's what every pollywoggy tries his best to do .
Of course .
That 's what a kindergarten is for .
And you may be sure that the babies of Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad and Stickytoes the Tree Toad did all of these things in the kindergarten of the Smiling Pool .
They looked considerably alike , did these little cousins , for they were all pollywogs to begin with .
Peter Rabbit came over every day to watch them .
Always he had thought pollywogs just homely , wriggling things , not the least bit interesting , but since he had discovered how proud of them were Grandfather Frog and Old Mr. Toad , he had begun to wonder about them and then to watch them .
`` There 's one thing about them , and that is they are not in danger the way any babies are , '' said Peter , talking to himself as is his way when there is no one else to talk to .
Just then a funny little black pollywog wriggled into sight , and while Peter was watching him , a stout-jawed water-beetle suddenly rushed from among the water grass , seized the pollywog by his tail , and dragged him down .
Peter stared .
Could it be that that ugly-looking bug was as dangerous an enemy to the baby Toad as Reddy Fox is to a baby Rabbit ?
He began to suspect so , and a little later he knew so , for there was that same little pollywog trying hard to swim and making bad work of it , because he had lost half of his long tail .
That set Peter to watching sharper than ever , and presently he discovered that pollywogs have to keep their eyes open quite as much as do baby Rabbits , if they would live to grow up .
There were several kinds of queer , ugly-looking bugs forever darting out at the wriggling pollywogs .
Hungry-looking fish lay in wait for them , and Longlegs the Blue Heron seemed to have a special liking for them .
But the pollywogs were spry , and seemed to have learned to watch out .
They seemed to Peter to spend all their time swimming and eating and growing .
They grew so fast that it seemed to him that he could almost see them grow .
And just imagine how surprised Peter was to discover one day that that very pollywog which he had seen lose his tail had grown a new one .
That puzzled Peter more than anything he had seen in a long time .
`` Why , I could n't do that ! ''
he exclaimed right out loud .
`` Do what ? ''
demanded Jerry Muskrat , who happened along just then .
`` Why , grow a new tail like that pollywog , '' replied Peter , and told Jerry all that he had seen .
Jerry laughed .
`` You 'll see queerer things than that if you watch those pollywogs long enough , '' said he .
`` They are a queer lot of babies , and very interesting to watch if you 've got the time for it .
I have n't .
This Smiling Pool is a great kindergarten , and there 's something happening here every minute .
There 's no place like it . ''
`` Are those great big fat pollywogs Grandfather Frog 's children , or Old Mr. Toad 's ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Grandfather Frog 's last year 's children , '' replied Jerry .
`` They 'll grow into real Frogs this summer , if nothing happens to them . ''
`` Where are Old Mr. Toad 's last year 's children ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Do n't ask me , '' replied Jerry .
`` They hopped away last summer .
Never saw anything like the way those Toad youngsters grow .
Those Toad pollywogs you see now will turn into real Toads , and be leaving the Smiling Pool in a few weeks .
People think Old Mr. Toad is slow , but there is nothing slow about his children .
Look at that little fellow over there ; he 's begun to grow legs already . ''
Peter looked , and sure enough there was a pollywog with a pair of legs sprouting out .
They were his fore legs , and they certainly did make him look funny .
And only a few days before there had n't been a sign of legs .
`` My gracious ! ''
exclaimed Peter .
`` What a funny sight !
I thought my babies grew fast , but these beat them . ''
X THE LITTLE TOADS START OUT TO SEE THE WORLD The world is a wonderful great big place And in it the young must roam To learn what their elders have long since learned -- There 's never a place like home .
It had been some time since Peter Rabbit had visited the Smiling Pool to watch the pollywogs .
But one cloudy morning he happened to think of them , and decided that he would run over there and see how they were getting along .
So off he started , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
He wondered if those pollywog children of Old Mr. Toad would be much changed .
The last time he saw them some of them had just begun to grow legs , although they still had long tails .
He had almost reached the Smiling Pool when great big drops of rain began to splash down .
And with those first raindrops something funny happened .
Anyway , it seemed funny to Peter .
Right away he was surrounded by tiny little Toads .
Everywhere he looked he saw Toads , tiny little Toads just like Old Mr. Toad , only so tiny that one could have sat comfortably on a ten-cent piece and still had plenty of room .
Peter 's big eyes grew round with surprise as he stared .
Where had they all come from so suddenly ?
A minute before he had n't seen a single one , and now he could hardly move without stepping on one .
It seemed , it really seemed , as if each raindrop turned into a tiny Toad the instant it struck the ground .
Of course Peter knew that that could n't be , but it was very puzzling .
And all those little Toads were bravely hopping along as if they were bound for some particular place .
Peter watched them for a few minutes , then he once more started for the Smiling Pool .
On the very bank whom should he meet but Old Mr. Toad .
He looked rather thin , and his back was to the Smiling Pool .
Yes , Sir , he was hopping away from the Smiling Pool where he had been all the spring , singing in the great chorus .
Peter was almost as surprised to see him as he had been to see the little Toads , but just then he was most interested in those little Toads .
`` Good morning , Old Mr. Toad , '' said Peter in his most polite manner .
`` Can you tell me where all these little Toads came from ? ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Can you tell me where all these little Toads came from ? '' -RSB-
`` Certainly , '' replied Old Mr. Toad .
`` They came from the Smiling Pool , of course .
Where did you suppose they came from ? ''
`` I -- I did n't know .
There was n't one to be seen , and then it began to rain , and right away they were everywhere .
It -- it almost seemed as if they had rained down out of the sky . ''
Old Mr. Toad chuckled .
`` They 've got good sense , if I must say it about my own children , '' said he .
`` They know that wet weather is the only weather for Toads to travel in .
They left the Smiling Pool in the night while it was damp and comfortable , and then , when the sun came up , they hid , like sensible children , under anything they could find , sticks , stones , pieces of bark , grass .
The minute this shower came up , they knew it was good traveling weather and out they popped . ''
`` But what did they leave the Smiling Pool for ? ''
Peter asked .
`` To see the Great World , '' replied Old Mr. Toad .
`` Foolish , very foolish of them , but they would do it .
I did the same thing myself when I was their age .
Could n't stop me any more than I could stop them .
They do n't know when they 're well off , but young folks never do .
Fine weather , is n't it ? ''
XI OLD MR. TOAD 'S QUEER TONGUE Old Mother Nature doth provide For all her children , large or small .
Her wisdom foresees all their needs And makes provision for them all .
If you do n't believe it , just you go ask Old Mr. Toad , as Peter Rabbit did , how such a slow-moving fellow as he is can catch enough bugs and insects to keep him alive .
Perhaps you 'll learn something just as Peter did .
Peter and Old Mr. Toad sat in the rain watching the tiny Toads , who , you know , were Mr. Toad 's children , leaving their kindergarten in the Smiling Pool and starting out to see the Great World .
When the last little Toad had passed them , Old Mr. Toad suddenly remembered that he was hungry , very hungry indeed .
`` Did n't have time to eat much while I was in the Smiling Pool , '' he explained .
`` Could n't eat and sing too , and while I was down there , I was supposed to sing .
Now that it is time to quit singing , I begin to realize that I 've got a stomach to look out for as well as a voice .
See that bug over there on that leaf ?
Watch him . ''
Peter looked , and sure enough there was a fat bug crawling along on an old leaf .
He was about two inches from Old Mr. Toad , and he was crawling very fast .
And right while Peter was looking at him he disappeared .
Peter turned to look at Old Mr. Toad .
He had n't budged .
He was sitting exactly where he had been sitting all the time , but he was smacking his lips , and there was a twinkle of satisfaction in his eyes .
Peter opened his eyes very wide .
`` Wha -- what -- '' he began .
`` Nice bug , '' interrupted Old Mr. Toad .
`` Nicest bug I 've eaten for a longtime . ''
`` But I did n't see you catch him ! ''
protested Peter , looking at Old Mr. Toad as if he suspected him of joking .
`` Anything wrong with your eyes ? ''
inquired Old Mr. Toad .
`` No , '' replied Peter just a wee bit crossly .
`` My eyes are just as good as ever . ''
`` Then watch me catch that fly over yonder , '' said Old Mr. Toad .
He hopped towards a fly which had lighted on a blade of grass just ahead .
About two inches from it he stopped , and so far as Peter could see , he sat perfectly still .
But the fly disappeared , and it was n't because it flew away , either .
Peter was sure of that .
As he told Mrs. Peter about it afterwards , `` It was there , and then it was n't , and that was all there was to it . ''
Old Mr. Toad chuckled .
`` Did n't you see that one go , Peter ? ''
he asked .
Peter shook his head .
`` I wish you Would stop fooling me , '' said Peter .
`` The joke is on me , but now you 've had your laugh at my expense , I wish you would tell me how you do it .
Please , Mr. Toad . ''
Now when Peter said please that way , of course Old Mr. Toad could n't resist him .
Nobody could .
`` Here comes an ant this way .
Now you watch my mouth instead of the ant and see what happens , '' said Old Mr. Toad .
Peter looked and saw a big black ant coming .
Then he kept his eyes on Old Mr. Toad 's mouth .
Suddenly there was a little flash of red from it , so tiny and so quick that Peter could n't be absolutely sure that he saw it .
But when he looked for the ant , it was nowhere to be seen .
Peter looked at Old Mr. Toad very hard .
`` Do you mean to tell me , Mr. Toad , that you 've got a tongue long enough to reach way over to where that ant was ? ''
he asked .
Old Mr. Toad chuckled again .
With every insect swallowed he felt better natured .
`` You 've guessed it , Peter , '' said he .
`` Handy tongue , is n't it ? ''
`` I think it 's a very queer tongue , '' retorted Peter , `` and I do n't understand it at all .
If it 's so long as all that , where do you keep it when it is n't in use ?
I should think you 'd have to swallow it to get it out of the way , or else leave it hanging out of your mouth . ''
`` Ha , ha , ha , ha , ha ! ''
laughed Old Mr. Toad .
`` My tongue never is in the way , and it 's the handiest tongue in the world .
I 'll show it to you . ''
XII OLD MR. TOAD SHOWS HIS TONGUE To show one 's tongue , as you well know , Is not considered nice to do ; But if it were like Mr. Toad 's I 'd want to show it -- would n't you ?
I 'm quite sure you would .
You see , if it were like Old Mr. Toad 's , it would be such a wonderful tongue that I suspect you would want everybody to see it .
Old Mr. Toad thinks his tongue the most satisfactory tongue in the world .
In fact , he is quite sure that without it he could n't get along at all , and I do n't know as he could .
And yet very few of his neighbors know anything about that tongue and how different it is from most other tongues .
Peter Rabbit did n't until Old Mr. Toad showed him after Peter had puzzled and puzzled over the mysterious way in which bugs and flies disappeared whenever they happened to come within two inches or less of Old Mr. Toad .
What Peter could n't understand was what Old Mr. Toad did with a tongue that would reach two inches beyond his mouth .
He said as much .
`` I 'll show you my tongue , and then you 'll wish you had one just like it , '' said Old Mr. Toad , with a twinkle in his eyes .
He opened his big mouth and slowly ran his tongue out its full length .
`` Why !
Why-ee ! ''
exclaimed Peter .
`` It 's fastened at the wrong end ! ''
`` No such thing ! ''
replied Old Mr. Toad indignantly .
`` If it was fastened at the other end , how could I run it out so far ? ''
`` But mine and all other tongues that I ever have seen are fastened way down in the throat , '' protested Peter .
`` Yours is fastened at the other end , way in the very front of your mouth .
I never heard of such a thing . ''
`` There are a great many things you have never heard of , Peter Rabbit , '' replied Old Mr. Toad drily .
`` Mine is the right way to have a tongue .
Because it is fastened way up in the front of my mouth that way , I can use the whole of it .
You see it goes out its full length .
Then , when I draw it in with a bug on the end of it , I just turn it over so that the end that was out goes way back in my throat and takes the bug with it to just the right place to swallow . ''
Peter thought this over for a few minutes before he ventured another question .
`` I begin to understand , '' said he , `` but how do you hold on to the bug with your tongue ? ''
`` My tongue is sticky , of course , Mr. Stupid , '' replied Old Mr. Toad , looking very much disgusted .
`` Just let me touch a bug with it , and he 's mine every time . ''
Peter thought this over .
Then he felt of his own tongue .
`` Mine is n't sticky , '' said he very innocently .
Old Mr. Toad laughed right out .
`` Perhaps if it was , you could n't ask so many questions , '' said he .
`` Now watch me catch that fly . ''
His funny little tongue darted out , and the fly was gone .
-LSB- Illustration : His funny little tongue darted out , and the fly was gone . -RSB-
`` It certainly is very handy , '' said Peter politely .
`` I think we are going to have more rain , and I 'd better be getting back to the dear Old Briarpatch .
Very much obliged to you , Mr. Toad .
I think you are very wonderful . ''
`` Not at all , '' replied Old Mr. Toad .
`` I 've simply got the things I need in order to live , just as you have the things you need .
I could n't get along with your kind of a tongue , but no more could you get along with mine .
If you live long enough , you will learn that Old Mother Nature makes no mistakes .
She gives each of us what we need , and each one has different needs . ''
XIII PETER RABBIT IS IMPOLITE Peter Rabbit could n't get Old Mr. Toad off his mind .
He had discovered so many interesting things about Old Mr. Toad that he was almost on the point of believing him to be the most interesting of all his neighbors .
And his respect for Old Mr. Toad had become very great indeed .
Of course .
Who would n't respect any one with such beautiful eyes and such a sweet voice and such a wonderful tongue ?
Yet at the same time Peter felt very foolish whenever he remembered that all his life he had been acquainted with Old Mr. Toad without really knowing him at all .
There was one comforting thought , and that was that most of his neighbors were just as ignorant regarding Old Mr. Toad as Peter had been .
`` Funny , '' mused Peter , `` how we can live right beside people all our lives and not really know them at all .
I suppose that is why we should never judge people hastily .
I believe I will go hunt up Old Mr. Toad and see if I can find out anything more . ''
Off started Peter , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
He did n't know just where to go , now that Old Mr. Toad had left the Smiling Pool , but he had an idea that he would not be far from their meeting place of the day before , when Old Mr. Toad had explained about his wonderful tongue .
But when he got there , Peter found no trace of Old Mr. Toad .
You see , it had rained the day before , and that is just the kind of weather that a Toad likes best for traveling .
Peter ought to have thought of that , but he did n't .
He hunted for awhile and finally gave it up and started up the Crooked Little Path with the idea of running over for a call on Johnny Chuck in the Old Orchard .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun was shining his brightest , and Peter soon forgot all about Old Mr. Toad .
He scampered along up the Crooked Little Path , thinking of nothing in particular but how good it was to be alive , and occasionally kicking up his heels for pure joy .
He had just done this when his ears caught the sound of a queer noise a little to one side of the Crooked Little Path .
Instantly Peter stopped and sat up to listen .
There it was again , and it seemed to come from under an old piece of board .
It was just a little , rustling sound , hardly to be heard .
`` There 's some one under that old board , '' thought Peter , and peeped under .
All he could see was that there was something moving .
Instantly Peter was all curiosity .
Whoever was there was not very big .
He was sure of that .
Of course that meant that he had nothing to fear .
So what do you think Peter did ?
Why , he just pulled that old board over .
And when he did that , he saw , whom do you think ?
Why , Old Mr. Toad , to be sure .
But such a sight as Old Mr. Toad was !
Peter just stared .
For a full minute he could n't find his voice .
Old Mr. Toad was changing his clothes !
Yes , Sir , that is just what Old Mr. Toad was doing .
He was taking off his old suit , and under it was a brand new one .
But such a time as he was having !
He was opening and shutting his big mouth , and drawing his hind legs under him , and rubbing them against his body .
Then Peter saw a strange thing .
He saw that Old Mr. Toad 's old suit had split in several places , and he was getting it off by sucking it into his mouth !
In a few minutes his hind legs were free of the old suit , and little by little it began to be pulled free from his body .
All the time Old Mr. Toad was working very hard to suck it at the corners of his big mouth .
He glared angrily at Peter , but he could n't say anything because his mouth was too full .
He looked so funny that Peter just threw himself on the ground and rolled over and over with laughter .
This made Old Mr. Toad glare more angrily than ever , but he could n't say anything , not a word .
When he had got his hands free by pulling the sleeves of his old coat off inside out , he used his hands to pull the last of it over his head .
Then he gulped very hard two or three times to swallow his old suit , and when the last of it had disappeared , he found his voice .
`` Do n't you know that it is the most impolite thing in the world to look at people when they are changing their clothes ? ''
he sputtered .
XIV OLD MR. TOAD DISAPPEARS Admit your fault when you 've done wrong , And do n't postpone it over long .
Peter Rabbit did n't blame Old Mr. Toad a bit for being indignant because Peter had watched him change his suit .
It was n't a nice thing to do .
Old Mr. Toad had looked very funny while he was struggling out of his old suit , and Peter just could n't help laughing at him .
But he realized that he had been very impolite , and he very meekly told Old Mr. Toad so .
`` You see , it was this way , '' explained Peter .
`` I heard something under that old board , and I just naturally turned it over to find out what was there . ''
`` Hump ! ''
grunted Old Mr. Toad .
`` I did n't have the least idea that you were there , '' continued Peter .
`` When I found who it was , and what you were doing , I could n't help watching because it was so interesting , and I could n't help laughing because you really did look so funny .
But I 'm sorry , Mr. Toad .
Truly I am .
I did n't mean to be so impolite .
I promise never to do it again .
I do n't suppose , Mr. Toad , that it seems at all wonderful to you that you can change your suit that way , but it does to me .
I had heard that you swallowed your old suits , but I never half believed it .
Now I know it is so and just how you do it , and I feel as if I had learned something worth knowing .
Do you know , I think you are one of the most interesting and wonderful of all my neighbors , and I 'll never laugh at or tease you again , Mr. Toad . ''
`` Hump ! ''
grunted Old Mr. Toad again , but it was very clear that he was a little flattered by Peter 's interest in him and was rapidly recovering his good nature .
`` There is one thing I do n't understand yet , '' said Peter , `` and that is where you go to to sleep all winter .
Do you go down into the mud at the bottom of the Smiling Pool the way Grandfather Frog does ? ''
`` Certainly not ! ''
retorted Old Mr. Toad .
`` Use your common sense , Peter Rabbit .
If I had spent the winter in the Smiling Pool , do you suppose I would have left it to come way up here and then have turned right around and gone back there to sing ?
I 'm not so fond of long journeys as all that . ''
`` That 's so . ''
Peter looked foolish .
`` I did n't think of that when I spoke . ''
`` The trouble with you , and with a lot of other people , is that you speak first and do your thinking afterward , when you do any thinking at all , '' grunted Old Mr. Toad .
`` Now if I wanted to , I could disappear right here . ''
`` You mean that you would hide under that old board just as you did before , '' said Peter , with a very wise look .
`` Nothing of the sort ! ''
snapped Old Mr. Toad .
`` I could disappear and not go near that old board , not a step nearer than I am now . ''
Peter looked in all directions carefully , but not a thing could he see under which Old Mr. Toad could possibly hide except the old board , and he had said he would n't hide under that .
`` I do n't like to doubt your word , Mr. Toad , '' said he , `` but you 'll have to show me before I can believe that . ''
Old Mr. Toad 's eyes twinkled .
Here was a chance to get even with Peter for watching him change his suit .
`` If you 'll turn your back to me and look straight down the Crooked Little Path for five minutes , I 'll disappear , '' said he .
`` More than that , I give you my word of honor that I will not hop three feet from where I am sitting . ''
`` All right , '' replied Peter promptly , turning his back to Old Mr. Toad .
`` I 'll look down the Crooked Little Path for five minutes and promise not to peek . ''
So Peter sat and gazed straight down the Crooked Little Path .
It was a great temptation to roll his eyes back and peep behind him , but he had given his word that he would n't , and he did n't .
When he thought the five minutes were up , he turned around .
Old Mr. Toad was nowhere to be seen .
Peter looked hastily this way and that way , but there was not a sign of Old Mr. Toad .
He had disappeared as completely as if he never had been there .
XV OLD MR. TOAD GIVES PETER A SCARE If you play pranks on other folks You may be sure that they Will take the first chance that they get A joke on you to play .
Old Mr. Toad was getting even with Peter for laughing at him .
While Peter 's back had been turned , Old Mr. Toad had disappeared .
It was too much for Peter .
Look as he would , he could n't see so much as a chip under which Old Mr. Toad might have hidden , excepting the old board , and Old Mr. Toad had given his word of honor that he would n't hide under that .
Nevertheless , Peter hopped over to it and turned it over again , because he could n't think of any other place to look .
Of course , Old Mr. Toad was n't there .
Of course not .
He had given his word that he would n't hide there , and he always lives up to his word .
Peter should have known better than to have looked there .
Old Mr. Toad had also said that he would not go three feet from the spot where he was sitting at the time , so Peter should have known better than to have raced up the Crooked Little Path as he did .
But if Old Mr. Toad had nothing to hide under , of course he must have hopped away , reasoned Peter .
He could n't hop far in five minutes , that was sure , and so Peter ran this way and that way a great deal farther than it would have been possible for Old Mr. Toad to have gone .
But it was a wholly useless search , and presently Peter returned and sat down on the very spot where he had last seen Old Mr. Toad .
Peter never had felt more foolish in all his life .
He began to think that Old Mr. Toad must be bewitched and had some strange power of making himself invisible .
For a long time Peter sat perfectly still , trying to puzzle out how Old Mr. Toad had disappeared , but the more he puzzled over it , the more impossible it seemed .
And yet Old Mr. Toad had disappeared .
Suddenly Peter gave a frightened scream and jumped higher than he ever had jumped before in all his life .
A voice , the voice of Old Mr. Toad himself , had said , `` Well , now are you satisfied ? ''
And that voice had come from right under Peter !
Do you wonder that he was frightened ?
When he turned to look , there sat Old Mr. Toad right where he himself had been sitting a moment before .
Peter rubbed his eyes and stared very foolishly .
`` Wh-wh-where did you come from ? ''
he stammered at last .
Old Mr. Toad grinned .
`` I 'll show you , '' said he .
And right while Peter was looking at him , he began to sink down into the ground until only the top of his head could be seen .
Then that disappeared .
Old Mr. Toad had gone down , and the sand had fallen right back over him .
Peter just had to rub his eyes again .
He had to !
Then , to make sure , he began to dig away the sand where Old Mr. Toad had been sitting .
In a minute he felt Old Mr. Toad , who at once came out again .
Old Mr. Toad 's beautiful eyes twinkled more than ever .
`` I guess we are even now , Peter , '' said he .
Peter nodded .
`` More than that , Mr. Toad .
I think you have a little the best of it , '' he replied .
`` Now wo n't you tell me how you did it ? ''
Old Mr. Toad held up one of his stout hind feet , and on it was a kind of spur .
`` There 's another just like that on the other foot , '' said he , `` and I use them to dig with .
You go into a hole headfirst , but I go in the other way .
I make my hole in soft earth and back into it at the same time , this way . ''
He began to work his stout hind feet , and as he kicked the earth out , he backed in at the same time .
When he was deep enough , the earth just fell back over him , for you see it was very loose and not packed down at all .
When he once more reappeared , Peter thanked him .
Then he asked one more question .
`` Is that the way you go into winter quarters ? ''
Old Mr. Toad nodded .
`` And it 's the way I escape from my enemies . ''
XVI JIMMY SKUNK IS SURPRISED Jimmy Skunk ambled along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
He did n't hurry because Jimmy does n't believe in hurrying .
The only time he ever hurries is when he sees a fat beetle trying to get out of sight .
Then Jimmy does hurry .
But just now he did n't see any fat beetles , although he was looking for them .
So he just ambled along as if he had all the time in the world , as indeed he had .
He was feeling very good-natured , was Jimmy Skunk .
And why should n't he ?
There was everything to make him feel good-natured .
Summer had arrived to stay .
On every side he heard glad voices .
Bumble the Bee was humming a song .
Best of all , Jimmy had found three beetles that very morning , and he knew that there were more if he could find them .
So why should n't he feel good ?
Jimmy had laughed at Peter Rabbit for being so anxious for Summer to arrive , but he was just as glad as Peter that she had come , although he would n't have said so for the world .
His sharp little eyes twinkled as he ambled along , and there was n't much that they missed .
As he walked he talked , quite to himself of course , because there was nobody near to hear , and this is what he was saying : `` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are nothing but a bug .
Bugs were made for Skunks to eat , So come out from your retreat .
`` Hello !
There 's a nice big piece of bark over there that looks as if it ought to have a dozen fat beetles under it .
It 's great fun to pull over pieces of bark and see fat beetles run all ways at once .
I 'll just have to see what is under that piece . ''
Jimmy tiptoed softly over to the big piece of bark , and then as he made ready to turn it over , he began again that foolish little verse .
`` Beetle , beetle , smooth and smug , You are nothing but a bug . ''
As he said the last word , he suddenly pulled the piece of bark over .
`` Who 's a bug ? ''
asked a funny voice , and it sounded rather cross .
Jimmy Skunk nearly tumbled over backward in surprise , and for a minute he could n't find his tongue .
There , instead of the fat beetles he had been so sure of , sat Old Mr. Toad , and he did n't look at all pleased .
`` Who 's a bug ? ''
he repeated .
Instead of answering , Jimmy Skunk began to laugh .
`` Who 's a bug ? ''
demanded Old Mr. Toad , more crossly than before .
`` There is n't any bug , Mr. Toad , and I beg your pardon , '' replied Jimmy , remembering his politeness .
`` I just thought there was .
You see , I did n't know you were under that piece of bark .
I hope you will excuse me , Mr. Toad .
Have you seen any fat beetles this morning ? ''
`` No , '' said Old Mr. Toad grumpily , and yawned and rubbed his eyes .
`` Why , '' exclaimed Jimmy Skunk , `` I believe you have just waked up ! ''
`` What if I have ? ''
demanded Old Mr. Toad .
`` Oh , nothing , nothing at all , Mr. Toad , '' replied Jimmy Skunk , `` only you are the second one I 've met this morning who had just waked up . ''
`` Who was the other ? ''
asked Old Mr. Toad .
`` Mr. Blacksnake , '' replied Jimmy .
`` He inquired for you . ''
Old Mr. Toad turned quite pale .
`` I -- I think I 'll be moving along , '' said he .
XVII OLD MR. TOAD 'S MISTAKE If is a very little word to look at , but the biggest word you have ever seen does n't begin to have so much meaning as little `` if . ''
If Jimmy Skunk had n't ambled down the Crooked Little Path just when he did ; if he had n't been looking for fat beetles ; if he had n't seen that big piece of bark at one side and decided to pull it over ; if it had n't been for all these `` ifs , '' why Old Mr. Toad would n't have made the mistake he did , and you would n't have had this story .
But Jimmy Skunk did amble down the Crooked Little Path , he did look for beetles , and he did pull over that big piece of bark .
And when he had pulled it over , he found Old Mr. Toad there .
Old Mr. Toad had crept under that piece of bark because he wanted to take a nap .
But when Jimmy Skunk told him that he had seen Mr. Blacksnake that very morning , and that Mr. Blacksnake had asked after Old Mr. Toad , the very last bit of sleepiness left Old Mr. Toad .
Yes , Sir , he was wide awake right away .
You see , he knew right away why Mr. Blacksnake had asked after him .
He knew that Mr. Blacksnake has a fondness for Toads .
He turned quite pale when he heard that Mr. Blacksnake had asked after him , and right then he made his mistake .
He was in such a hurry to get away from that neighborhood that he forgot to ask Jimmy Skunk just where he had seen Mr. Blacksnake .
He hardly waited long enough to say good-by to Jimmy Skunk , but started off as fast as he could go .
Now it just happened that Old Mr. Toad started up the Crooked Little Path , and it just happened that Mr. Blacksnake was coming down the Crooked Little Path .
Now when people are very much afraid , they almost always seem to think that danger is behind instead of in front of them .
It was so with Old Mr. Toad .
Instead of watching out in front as he hopped along , he kept watching over his shoulder , and that was his second mistake .
He was so sure that Mr. Blacksnake was somewhere behind him that he did n't look to see where he was going , and you know that people who do n't look to see where they are going are almost sure to go headfirst right into trouble .
Old Mr. Toad went hopping up the Crooked Little Path as fast as he could , which was n't very fast , because he never can hop very fast .
And all the time he kept looking behind for Mr. Blacksnake .
Presently he came to a turn in the Crooked Little Path , and as he hurried around it , he almost ran into Mr. Blacksnake himself .
It was a question which was more surprised .
For just a wee second they stared at each other .
Then Mr. Blacksnake 's eyes began to sparkle .
`` Good morning , Mr. Toad .
Is n't this a beautiful morning ?
I was just thinking about you , '' said he .
But poor Old Mr. Toad did n't say good morning .
He did n't say anything .
He could n't , because he was too scared .
He just gave a frightened little squeal , turned around , and started down the Crooked Little Path twice as fast as he had come up .
Mr. Blacksnake grinned and started after him , not very fast because he knew that he would n't have to run very fast to catch Old Mr. Toad , and he thought the exercise would do him good .
And this is how it happened that summer morning that jolly , bright Mr. Sun , looking down from the blue , blue sky and smiling to see how happy everybody seemed , suddenly discovered that there was one of the little meadow people who was n't happy , but instead was terribly , terribly unhappy .
It was Old Mr. Toad hopping down the Crooked Little Path for his life , while after him , and getting nearer and nearer , glided Mr. Blacksnake .
XVIII JIMMY SKUNK IS JUST IN TIME Jimmy Skunk ambled slowly along , chuckling as he thought of what a hurry Mr. Toad had been in , when he had heard that Mr. Blacksnake had asked after him .
It had been funny , very funny indeed , to see Mr. Toad try to hurry .
Suddenly Jimmy stopped chuckling .
Then he stopped ambling along the Crooked Little Path .
He turned around and looked back , and as he did so he scratched his head thoughtfully .
He had just happened to think that Old Mr. Toad had gone up the Crooked Little Path , and it was up the Crooked Little Path that Mr. Blacksnake had shown himself that morning .
`` If he 's still up there , '' thought Jimmy , `` Old Mr. Toad is hopping right straight into the very worst kind of trouble .
How stupid of him not to have asked me where Mr. Blacksnake was !
Well , it 's none of my business .
I guess I 'll go on . ''
But he had gone on down the Crooked Little Path only a few steps when he stopped again .
You see , Jimmy is really a very kind-hearted little fellow , and somehow he did n't like to think of what might happen to Old Mr. Toad .
`` I hate to go way back there , '' he grumbled , for you know he is naturally rather lazy .
`` Still , the Green Meadows would n't be quite the same without Old Mr. Toad .
I should miss him if anything happened to him .
I suppose it would be partly my fault , too , for if I had n't pulled over that piece of bark , he probably would have stayed there the rest of the day and been safe . ''
`` Maybe he wo n't meet Mr. Blacksnake , '' said a little voice inside of Jimmy .
`` And maybe he will , '' said Jimmy right out loud .
And with that , he started back up the Crooked Little Path , and strange to say Jimmy hurried .
He had just reached a turn in the Crooked Little Path when who should run right plump into him but poor Old Mr. Toad .
He gave a frightened squeal and fell right over on his back , and kicked foolishly as he tried to get on his feet again .
But he was all out of breath , and so frightened and tired that all he could do was to kick and kick .
He had n't seen Jimmy at all , for he had been looking behind him , and he did n't even know who it was he had run into .
Right behind him came Mr. Blacksnake .
Of course he saw Jimmy , and he stopped short and hissed angrily .
`` What were you going to do to Mr. Toad ? ''
demanded Jimmy .
`` None of your business ! ''
hissed Mr. Blacksnake .
`` Get out of my way , or you 'll be sorry . ''
Jimmy Skunk just laughed and stepped in front of poor Old Mr. Toad .
Mr. Blacksnake coiled himself up in the path and darted his tongue out at Jimmy in the most impudent way .
Then he tried to make himself look very fierce .
Then he jumped straight at Jimmy Skunk with his mouth wide open , but he took great care not to jump quite far enough to reach Jimmy .
You see , he was just trying to scare Jimmy .
But Jimmy did n't scare .
He knows all about Mr. Blacksnake and that really he is a coward .
So he suddenly gritted his teeth in a way not at all pleasant to hear and started for Mr. Blacksnake .
Mr. Blacksnake did n't wait .
No , Sir , he did n't wait .
He suddenly turned and glided back up the Crooked Little Path , hissing angrily .
Jimmy followed him a little way , and then he went back to Old Mr. Toad .
`` Oh , '' panted Mr. Toad , `` you came just in time !
I could n't have hopped another hop . ''
`` I guess I did , '' replied Jimmy .
`` Now you get your breath and come along with me . ''
And Old Mr. Toad did .
XIX OLD MR. TOAD GETS HIS STOMACH FULL Pray do not tip your nose in scorn At things which others eat , For things to you not good at all To others are most sweet .
There are ants , for instance .
You would n't want to eat them even if you were dreadfully hungry .
But Old Mr. Toad and Buster Bear think there is nothing much nicer .
Now Buster Bear had found Old Mr. Toad catching ants , one at a time , as he kept watch beside their home , and it had pleased Buster to find some one else who liked ants .
Right away he invited Old Mr. Toad to dine with him .
But poor Old Mr. Toad was frightened almost to death when he heard the deep , grumbly-rumbly voice of Buster Bear , for he had been so busy watching the ants that he had n't seen Buster coming .
He fell right over on his back , which was n't at all dignified , and made Buster Bear laugh .
That frightened Mr. Toad more than ever .
You see he did n't have the least doubt in the world that Buster Bear meant to eat him , and when Buster invited him to dinner , he was sure that that was just a joke on Buster 's part .
But there was no way to escape , and after a little Old Mr. Toad thought it best to be polite , because , you know , it always pays to be polite .
So he said in a very faint voice that he would be pleased to dine with Buster .
Then he waved his feet feebly , trying to get on his feet again .
Buster Bear laughed harder than ever .
It was a low , deep , grumbly-rumbly laugh , and sent cold shivers all over poor Old Mr. Toad .
But when Buster reached out a great paw with great cruel-looking claws Mr. Toad quite gave up .
He did n't have strength enough left to even kick .
He just closed his eyes and waited for the end .
What do you think happened ?
Why , he was rolled over on to his feet so gently that he just gasped with surprise .
It did n't seem possible that such a great paw could be so gentle .
`` Now , '' said Buster Bear in a voice which he tried to make sound pleasant , but which was grumbly-rumbly just the same , `` I know where there is a fine dinner waiting for us just a little way from here .
You follow me , and we 'll have it in no time . ''
So Buster Bear led the way , and Old Mr. Toad followed as fast as he could , because he did n't dare not to .
Presently Buster stopped beside a big decayed old log .
`` If you are ready , Mr. Toad , we will dine now , '' said he .
Old Mr. Toad did n't see anything to eat .
His heart sank again , and he shook all over .
`` I -- I 'm not hungry , '' said he in a very faint voice .
Buster Bear did n't seem to hear .
He hooked his great claws into the old log and gave a mighty pull .
Over rolled the log , and there were ants and ants and ants , hurrying this way and scurrying that way , more ants than Mr. Toad had seen in all his life before !
`` Help yourself , '' said Buster Bear politely .
Old Mr. Toad did n't wait to be told twice .
He forgot all about his fright .
He forgot all about Buster Bear .
He forgot that he was n't hungry .
He forgot his manners .
He jumped right in among those ants , and for a little while he was the busiest Toad ever seen .
Buster Bear was busy too .
He swept his long tongue this way , and he swept it that way , and each time he drew it back into his mouth , it was covered with ants .
At last Old Mr. Toad could n't hold another ant .
Then he remembered Buster Bear and looked up a little fearfully .
Buster was smacking his lips , and there was a twinkle in each eye .
`` Good , are n't they ? ''
said he .
`` The best I ever ate , '' declared Old Mr. Toad with a sigh of satisfaction .
`` Come dine with me again , '' said Buster Bear , and somehow this time Old Mr. Toad did n't mind because his voice sounded grumbly-rumbly .
`` Thank you , I will , '' replied Old Mr. Toad .
XX OLD MR. TOAD IS PUFFED UP Old Mr. Toad hopped slowly down the Lone Little Path .
He usually does hop slowly , but this time he hopped slower than ever .
You see , he was so puffed up that he could n't have hopped fast if he had wanted to , and he did n't want to .
In the first place his stomach was so full of ants that there was n't room for another one .
No , Sir , Old Mr. Toad could n't have swallowed another ant if he had tried .
Of course they made his stomach stick out , but it was n't the ants that puffed him out all over .
Oh , my , no !
It was pride .
That 's what it was -- pride .
You know nothing can puff any one up quite like foolish pride .
Old Mr. Toad was old enough to have known better .
It is bad enough to see young and foolish creatures puffed up with pride , but it is worse to see any one as old as Old Mr. Toad that way .
He held his head so high that he could n't see his own feet , and more than once he stubbed his toes .
Presently he met his old friend , Danny Meadow Mouse .
He tipped his head a little higher , puffed himself out a little more , and pretended not to see Danny .
`` Hello , Mr. Toad , '' said Danny .
Mr. Toad pretended not to hear .
Danny looked puzzled .
Then he spoke again , and this time he shouted : `` Hello , Mr. Toad !
I have n't seen you for some time . ''
It would n't do to pretend not to hear this time .
`` Oh , how do you do , Danny ? ''
said Old Mr. Toad with a very grand air , and pretending to be much surprised .
`` Sorry I ca n't stop , but I 've been dining with , my friend , Buster Bear , and now I must get home . ''
When he mentioned the name of Buster Bear , he puffed himself out a little more .
Danny grinned as he watched him hop on down the Lone Little Path .
`` Ca n't talk with common folks any more , '' he muttered .
`` I 've heard that pride is very apt to turn people 's heads , but I never expected to see Old Mr. Toad proud . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Ca n't talk with common folks any more , '' he muttered . -RSB-
Mr. Toad kept on his way , and presently he met Peter Rabbit .
Peter stopped to gossip , as is his way .
But Old Mr. Toad took no notice of him at all .
He kept right on with his head high , and all puffed out .
Peter might have been a stick or a stone for all the notice Old Mr. Toad took of him .
Peter looked puzzled .
Then he hurried down to tell Danny Meadow Mouse about it .
`` Oh , '' said Danny , `` he 's been to dine with Buster Bear , and now he has no use for his old friends . ''
Pretty soon along came Johnny Chuck , and he was very much put out because he had been treated by Old Mr. Toad just as Peter Rabbit had .
Striped Chipmunk told the same story .
So did Unc ' Billy Possum .
It was the same with all of Old Mr. Toad 's old friends and neighbors , excepting Bobby Coon , who , you know , is Buster Bear 's little cousin .
To him Old Mr. Toad was very polite and talked a great deal about Buster Bear , and thought that Bobby must be very proud to be related to Buster .
At first everybody thought it a great joke to see Old Mr. Toad so puffed up with , pride , but after a little they grew tired of being snubbed by their old friend and neighbor , and began to say unpleasant things about him .
Then they decided that what Old Mr. Toad needed was a lesson , so they put their heads together and planned how they would teach Old Mr. Toad how foolish it is for any one to be puffed up with pride .
XXI OLD MR. TOAD RECEIVES ANOTHER INVITATION The friends and neighbors of Old Mr. Toad decided that he needed to be taught a lesson .
At first , you know , every one had laughed at him , because he had grown too proud to speak to them , but after a little they grew tired of being treated so , and some of them put their heads together to think of some plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and what a very , very foolish thing false pride is .
The very next day Jimmy Skunk went into the Green Forest to look for Buster Bear .
You know Jimmy is n't afraid of Buster .
He did n't have to look long , and when he had found him , the very first thing he did was to ask Buster if he had seen any fat beetles that morning .
You know Jimmy is very fond of fat beetles , and the first thing he asks any one he may happen to meet is if they have seen any .
Buster Bear grinned and said he thought he knew where there might be a few , and he would be pleased to have Jimmy go with him to see .
Sure enough , under an old log he found five fat beetles , and these Jimmy gobbled up without even asking Buster if he would have one .
Jimmy is usually very polite , but this time he quite forgot politeness .
I am afraid he is rather apt to when fat beetles are concerned .
But Buster did n't seem to mind .
When the last beetle had disappeared Jimmy smacked his lips , and then he told Buster Bear what he had come for .
Of course , at first Buster had thought it was for the fat beetles .
But it was n't .
No , Sir , it was n't for the fat beetles at all .
It was to get Buster Bear 's help in a plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson .
First Jimmy told Buster all about how puffed up Old Mr. Toad was because he had dined with Buster , and how ever since then he had refused even to speak to his old friends and neighbors .
It tickled Buster Bear so to think that little homely Old Mr. Toad could be proud of anything that he laughed and laughed , and his laugh was deep and grumbly-rumbly .
Then Jimmy told him the plan to teach Old Mr. Toad a lesson and asked Buster if he would help .
Buster 's eyes twinkled as he promised to do what Jimmy asked .
Then Jimmy went straight to where Old Mr. Toad was sitting all puffed up , taking a sun-bath .
`` Buster Bear has just sent word by me to ask if you will honor him by dining with him to-morrow at the rotted chestnut stump near the edge of the Green Forest , '' said Jimmy in his politest manner .
Now if Old Mr. Toad was puffed up before , just think how he swelled out when he heard that .
Jimmy Skunk was actually afraid that he would burst .
`` You may tell my friend , Buster Bear , that I shall be very happy to honor him by dining with him , '' replied Old Mr. Toad with a very grand air .
Jimmy went off to deliver his reply , and Old Mr. Toad sat and puffed himself out until he could hardly breathe .
`` Honor him by dining with him , '' said he over and over to himself .
`` I never was so flattered in my life . ''
XXII OLD MR. TOAD LEARNS A LESSON Pride is like a great big bubble ; You 'll find there 's nothing in it .
Prick it and for all your trouble It has vanished in a minute .
Old Mr. Toad was so puffed out with pride as he started for the Green Forest to dine with Buster Bear that those who saw him wondered if he would n't burst before he got there .
Everybody knew where he was going , and this made Old Mr. Toad feel more important and proud than ever .
He might not have felt quite so puffed up if he had known just how it had come about that he received this second invitation to dine with Buster Bear .
When Jimmy Skunk brought it to him , Jimmy did n't tell him that Buster had been asked to send the invitation , and that it was all part of a plan on the part of some of Old Mr. Toad 's old friends and neighbors to teach him a lesson .
No , indeed , Jimmy did n't say anything at all about that !
So Old Mr. Toad went hopping along and stumbling over his own feet , because his head was held so high and he was so puffed out that he could n't see where he was going .
He could think of nothing but how important Buster Bear must consider him to invite him to dinner a second time , and of the delicious ants he was sure he would have to eat .
`` What very good taste Buster Bear has , '' thought he , `` and how very fortunate it is that he found out that I also am fond of ants . ''
He was so busy with these pleasant thoughts and of the good dinner that he expected to have that he took no notice of what was going on about him .
He did n't see his old friends and neighbors peeping out at him and laughing because he looked so foolish and silly .
He was dressed in his very best , which was nothing at all to be proud of , for you know Old Mr. Toad has no fine clothes .
And being puffed up so , he was homelier than ever , which is saying a great deal , for at best Mr. Toad is anything but handsome .
He was beginning to get pretty tired by the time he reached the Green Forest and came in sight of the rotted old chestnut stump where he was to meet Buster Bear .
Buster was waiting for him .
`` How do you do this fine day ?
You look a little tired and rather warm , Mr. Toad , '' said he .
`` I am a little warm , '' replied Mr. Toad in his most polite manner , although he could n't help panting for breath as he said it .
`` I hope you are feeling as well as you are looking , Mr. Bear . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` I am a little warm , '' replied Mr. Toad in his most polite manner . -RSB-
Buster Bear laughed a great , grumbly-rumbly laugh .
`` I always feel fine when there is a dinner of fat ants ready for me , '' said he .
`` It is fine of you to honor me by coming to dine . ''
Here Mr. Toad put one hand on his stomach and tried to make a very grand bow .
Peter Rabbit , hiding behind a near-by tree , almost giggled aloud , he looked so funny .
`` I have ventured to invite another to enjoy the dinner with us , '' continued Buster Bear .
Mr. Toad 's face fell .
You see he was selfish .
He wanted to be the only one to have the honor of dining with Buster Bear .
`` He 's a little late , '' went on Buster , `` but I think he will be here soon , and I hope you will be glad to meet him .
Ah , there he comes now ! ''
Old Mr. Toad looked in the direction in which Buster Bear was looking .
He gave a little gasp and turned quite pale .
All his puffiness disappeared .
He did n't look like the same Toad at all .
The newcomer was Mr. Blacksnake .
`` Oh ! ''
cried Old Mr. Toad , and then , without even asking to be excused , he turned his back on Buster Bear and started back the way he had come , with long , frightened hops .
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit , jumping out from behind a tree .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
shouted Jimmy Skunk from behind another .
`` Hee , hee , hee ! ''
shouted Johnny Chuck from behind a third .
Then Old Mr. Toad knew that his old friends and neighbors had planned this to teach him a lesson .
XXIII OLD MR. TOAD IS VERY HUMBLE When Old Mr. Toad saw Mr. Blacksnake and turned his back on Buster Bear and the fine dinner to which Buster had invited him , he had but just one idea in his head , and that was to get out of sight of Mr. Blacksnake as soon as possible .
He forgot to ask Buster Bear to excuse him .
He forgot that he was tired and hot .
He forgot all the pride with which he had been so puffed up .
He forgot everything but the need of getting out of sight of Mr. Blacksnake as soon as ever he could .
So away went Old Mr. Toad , hop , hop , hipperty-hop , hop , hop , hipperty-hop !
He heard Peter Rabbit and Jimmy Skunk and Johnny Chuck and others of his old friends and neighbors shouting with laughter .
Yes , and he heard the deep , grumbly-rumbly laugh of Buster Bear .
But he did n't mind it .
Not then , anyway .
He had n't room for any feeling except fear of Mr. Blacksnake .
But Old Mr. Toad had to stop after a while .
You see , his legs were so tired they just would n't go any longer .
And he was so out of breath that he wheezed .
He crawled under a big piece of bark , and there he lay flat on the ground and panted and panted for breath .
He would stay there until jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple Hills .
Then Mr. Blacksnake would go to bed too , and it would be safe for him to go home .
Now , lying there in the dark , for it was dark under that big piece of bark , Old Mr. Toad had time to think .
Little by little he began to understand that his invitation to dine with Buster Bear had been part of a plan by his old friends and neighbors whom he had so snubbed and looked down on when he had been puffed up with pride , to teach him a lesson .
At first he was angry , very angry indeed .
Then he began to see how foolish and silly he had been , and shame took the place of anger .
As he remembered the deep , grumbly-rumbly laughter of Buster Bear , the feeling of shame grew .
`` I deserve it , '' thought Old Mr. Toad .
`` Yes , Sir , I deserve every bit of it .
The only thing that I have to be proud of is that I 'm honest and work for my living .
Yes , Sir , that 's all . ''
When darkness came at last , and he crawled out to go home , he was feeling very humble .
Peter Rabbit happened along just then .
Old Mr. Toad opened his mouth to speak , but Peter suddenly threw his head up very high and strutted past as if he did n't see Old Mr. Toad at all .
Mr. Toad gulped and went on .
Pretty soon he met Jimmy Skunk .
Jimmy went right on about his business and actually stepped right over Old Mr. Toad as if he had been a stick or a stone .
Old Mr. Toad gulped again and went on .
The next day he went down to see Danny Meadow Mouse .
He meant to tell Danny how ashamed he was for the way he had treated Danny and his other friends .
But Danny brushed right past without even a glance at him .
Old Mr. Toad gulped and started up to see Johnny Chuck .
The same thing happened again .
So it did when he met Striped Chipmunk .
At last Old Mr. Toad gave up and went home , where he sat under a big mullein leaf the rest of the day , feeling very miserable and lonely .
He did n't have appetite enough to snap at a single fly .
Late that afternoon he heard a little noise and looked up to find all his old friends and neighbors forming a circle around him .
Suddenly they began to dance and shout : `` Old Mr. Toad is a jolly good fellow !
His temper is sweet , disposition is mellow !
And now that his bubble of pride is quite busted We know that he knows that his friends can be trusted . ''
Then Old Mr. Toad knew that all was well once more , and presently he began to dance too , the funniest dance that ever was seen .
This is all for now about homely Old Mr. Toad , because I have just got to tell you about another homely fellow , -- Prickly Porky the Porcupine , -- who carries a thousand little spears .
The next book will tell you all about his adventures .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Grey_Fairy_Book.txt.out
DONKEY SKIN There was once upon a time a king who was so much beloved by his subjects that he thought himself the happiest monarch in the whole world , and he had everything his heart could desire .
His palace was filled with the rarest of curiosities , and his garden with the sweetest flowers , while the marble stalls of his stables stood a row of milk-white Arabs , with big brown eyes .
Strangers who had heard of the marvels which the king had collected , and made long journeys to see them , were , however , surprised to find the most splendid stall of all occupied by a donkey , with particularly large and drooping ears .
It was a very fine donkey ; but still , as far as they could tell , nothing so very remarkable as to account for the care with which it was lodged ; and they went away wondering , for they could not know that every night , when it was asleep , bushels of gold pieces tumbled out of its ears , which were picked up each morning by the attendants .
After many years of prosperity a sudden blow fell upon the king in the death of his wife , whom he loved dearly .
But before she died , the queen , who had always thought first of his happiness , gathered all her strength , and said to him : ` Promise me one thing : you must marry again , I know , for the good of your people , as well as of yourself .
But do not set about it in a hurry .
Wait until you have found a woman more beautiful and better formed than myself . '
` Oh , do not speak to me of marrying , ' sobbed the king ; ` rather let me die with you ! '
But the queen only smiled faintly , and turned over on her pillow and died .
For some months the king 's grief was great ; then gradually he began to forget a little , and , besides , his counsellors were always urging him to seek another wife .
At first he refused to listen to them , but by-and-by he allowed himself to be persuaded to think of it , only stipulating that the bride should be more beautiful and attractive than the late queen , according to the promise he had made her .
Overjoyed at having obtained what they wanted , the counsellors sent envoys far and wide to get portraits of all the most famous beauties of every country .
The artists were very busy and did their best , but , alas !
nobody could even pretend that any of the ladies could compare for a moment with the late queen .
At length , one day , when he had turned away discouraged from a fresh collection of pictures , the king 's eyes fell on his adopted daughter , who had lived in the palace since she was a baby , and he saw that , if a woman existed on the whole earth more lovely than the queen , this was she !
He at once made known what his wishes were , but the young girl , who was not at all ambitious , and had not the faintest desire to marry him , was filled with dismay , and begged for time to think about it .
That night , when everyone was asleep , she started in a little car drawn by a big sheep , and went to consult her fairy godmother . '
I know what you have come to tell me , ' said the fairy , when the maiden stepped out of the car ; ` and if you do n't wish to marry him , I will show you how to avoid it .
Ask him to give you a dress that exactly matches the sky .
It will be impossible for him to get one , so you will be quite safe . '
The girl thanked the fairy and returned home again .
-LSB- Illustration : The King 's Pet Donkey -RSB- The next morning , when her father -LRB- as she had always called him -RRB- came to see her , she told him that she could give him no answer until he had presented her with a dress the colour of the sky .
The king , overjoyed at this answer , sent for all the choicest weavers and dressmakers in the kingdom , and commanded them to make a robe the colour of the sky without an instant 's delay , or he would cut off their heads at once .
Dreadfully frightened at this threat , they all began to dye and cut and sew , and in two days they brought back the dress , which looked as if it had been cut straight out of the heavens !
The poor girl was thunderstruck , and did not know what to do ; so in the night she harnessed her sheep again , and went in search of her godmother .
` The king is cleverer than I thought , ' said the fairy ; ` but tell him you must have a dress of moonbeams . '
And the next day , when the king summoned her into his presence , the girl told him what she wanted .
` Madam , I can refuse you nothing , ' said he ; and he ordered the dress to be ready in twenty-four hours , or every man should be hanged .
They set to work with all their might , and by dawn next day , the dress of moonbeams was laid across her bed .
The girl , though she could not help admiring its beauty , began to cry , till the fairy , who heard her , came to her help .
` Well , I could not have believed it of him ! '
said she ; ` but ask for a dress of sunshine , and I shall be surprised indeed if he manages that ! '
The goddaughter did not feel much faith in the fairy after her two previous failures ; but not knowing what else to do , she told her father what she was bid .
The king made no difficulties about it , and even gave his finest rubies and diamonds to ornament the dress , which was so dazzling , when finished , that it could not be looked at save through smoked glasses !
When the princess saw it , she pretended that the sight hurt her eyes , and retired to her room , where she found the fairy awaiting her , very much ashamed of herself .
` There is only one thing to be done now , ' cried she ; ` you must demand the skin of the ass he sets such store by .
It is from that donkey he obtains all his vast riches , and I am sure he will never give it to you . '
The princess was not so certain ; however , she went to the king , and told him she could never marry him till he had given her the ass 's skin .
The king was both astonished and grieved at this new request , but did not hesitate an instant .
The ass was sacrificed , and the skin laid at the feet of the princess .
-LSB- Illustration : The Fairy , The Princess & The Donkey 's Skin -RSB- The poor girl , seeing no escape from the fate she dreaded , wept afresh , and tore her hair ; when , suddenly , the fairy stood before her .
` Take heart , ' she said , ` all will now go well !
Wrap yourself in this skin , and leave the palace and go as far as you can .
I will look after you .
Your dresses and your jewels shall follow you underground , and if you strike the earth whenever you need anything , you will have it at once .
But go quickly : you have no time to lose . '
So the princess clothed herself in the ass 's skin , and slipped from the palace without being seen by anyone .
Directly she was missed there was a great hue and cry , and every corner , possible and impossible , was searched .
Then the king sent out parties along all the roads , but the fairy threw her invisible mantle over the girl when they approached , and none of them could see her .
The princess walked on a long , long way , trying to find some one who would take her in , and let her work for them ; but though the cottagers , whose houses she passed , gave her food from charity , the ass 's skin was so dirty they would not allow her to enter their houses .
For her flight had been so hurried she had had no time to clean it .
Tired and disheartened at her ill-fortune , she was wandering , one day , past the gate of a farmyard , situated just outside the walls of a large town , when she heard a voice calling to her .
She turned and saw the farmer 's wife standing among her turkeys , and making signs to her to come in . '
I want a girl to wash the dishes and feed the turkeys , and clean out the pig-sty , ' said the woman , ` and , to judge by your dirty clothes , you would not be too fine for the work . '
The girl accepted her offer with joy , and she was at once set to work in a corner of the kitchen , where all the farm servants came and made fun of her , and the ass 's skin in which she was wrapped .
But by-and-by they got so used to the sight of it that it ceased to amuse them , and she worked so hard and so well , that her mistress grew quite fond of her .
And she was so clever at keeping sheep and herding turkeys that you would have thought she had done nothing else during her whole life !
One day she was sitting on the banks of a stream bewailing her wretched lot , when she suddenly caught sight of herself in the water .
Her hair and part of her face was quite concealed by the ass 's head , which was drawn right over like a hood , and the filthy matted skin covered her whole body .
It was the first time she had seen herself as other people saw her , and she was filled with shame at the spectacle .
Then she threw off her disguise and jumped into the water , plunging in again and again , till she shone like ivory .
When it was time to go back to the farm , she was forced to put on the skin which disguised her , and now seemed more dirty than ever ; but , as she did so , she comforted herself with the thought that to-morrow was a holiday , and that she would be able for a few hours to forget that she was a farm girl , and be a princess once more .
So , at break of day , she stamped on the ground , as the fairy had told her , and instantly the dress like the sky lay across her tiny bed .
Her room was so small that there was no place for the train of her dress to spread itself out , but she pinned it up carefully when she combed her beautiful hair and piled it up on the top of her head , as she had always worn it .
When she had done , she was so pleased with herself that she determined never to let a chance pass of putting on her splendid clothes , even if she had to wear them in the fields , with no one to admire her but the sheep and turkeys .
Now the farm was a royal farm , and , one holiday , when ` Donkey Skin ' -LRB- as they had nicknamed the princess -RRB- had locked the door of her room and clothed herself in her dress of sunshine , the king 's son rode through the gate , and asked if he might come and rest himself a little after hunting .
Some food and milk were set before him in the garden , and when he felt rested he got up , and began to explore the house , which was famous throughout the whole kingdom for its age and beauty .
He opened one door after the other , admiring the old rooms , when he came to a handle that would not turn .
He stooped and peeped through the keyhole to see what was inside , and was greatly astonished at beholding a beautiful girl , clad in a dress so dazzling that he could hardly look at it .
The dark gallery seemed darker than ever as he turned away , but he went back to the kitchen and inquired who slept in the room at the end of the passage .
The scullery maid , they told him , whom everybody laughed at , and called ` Donkey Skin ; ' and though he perceived there was some strange mystery about this , he saw quite clearly there was nothing to be gained by asking any more questions .
So he rode back to the palace , his head filled with the vision he had seen through the keyhole .
All night long he tossed about , and awoke the next morning in a high fever .
The queen , who had no other child , and lived in a state of perpetual anxiety about this one , at once gave him up for lost , and indeed his sudden illness puzzled the greatest doctors , who tried the usual remedies in vain .
At last they told the queen that some secret sorrow must be at the bottom of all this , and she threw herself on her knees beside her son 's bed , and implored him to confide his trouble to her .
If it was ambition to be king , his father would gladly resign the cares of the crown , and suffer him to reign in his stead ; or , if it was love , everything should be sacrificed to get for him the wife he desired , even if she were daughter of a king with whom the country was at war at present !
` Madam , ' replied the prince , whose weakness would hardly allow him to speak , ` do not think me so unnatural as to wish to deprive my father of his crown .
As long as he lives I shall remain the most faithful of his subjects !
And as to the princesses you speak of , I have seen none that I should care for as a wife , though I would always obey your wishes , whatever it might cost me . '
` Ah !
my son , ' cried she , ` we will do anything in the world to save your life -- and ours too , for if you die , we shall die also . '
` Well , then , ' replied the prince , ' I will tell you the only thing that will cure me -- a cake made by the hand of `` Donkey Skin . '' '
` Donkey Skin ? '
exclaimed the queen , who thought her son had gone mad ; ` and who or what is that ? '
` Madam , ' answered one of the attendants present , who had been with the prince at the farm , ' `` Donkey Skin '' is , next to the wolf , the most disgusting creature on the face of the earth .
She is a girl who wears a black , greasy skin , and lives at your farmer 's as hen-wife . '
` Never mind , ' said the queen ; ` my son seems to have eaten some of her pastry .
It is the whim of a sick man , no doubt ; but send at once and let her bake a cake . '
The attendant bowed and ordered a page to ride with the message .
Now it is by no means certain that ` Donkey Skin ' had not caught a glimpse of the prince , either when his eyes looked through the keyhole , or else from her little window , which was over the road .
But whether she had actually seen him or only heard him spoken of , directly she received the queen 's command , she flung off the dirty skin , washed herself from head to foot , and put on a skirt and bodice of shining silver .
Then , locking herself into her room , she took the richest cream , the finest flour , and the freshest eggs on the farm , and set about making her cake .
As she was stirring the mixture in the saucepan a ring that she sometimes wore in secret slipped from her finger and fell into the dough .
Perhaps ` Donkey Skin ' saw it , or perhaps she did not ; but , any way , she went on stirring , and soon the cake was ready to be put in the oven .
When it was nice and brown she took off her dress and put on her dirty skin , and gave the cake to the page , asking at the same time for news of the prince .
But the page turned his head aside , and would not even condescend to answer .
The page rode like the wind , and as soon as he arrived at the palace he snatched up a silver tray and hastened to present the cake to the prince .
The sick man began to eat it so fast that the doctors thought he would choke ; and , indeed , he very nearly did , for the ring was in one of the bits which he broke off , though he managed to extract it from his mouth without anyone seeing him .
The moment the prince was left alone he drew the ring from under his pillow and kissed it a thousand times .
Then he set his mind to find how he was to see the owner -- for even he did not dare to confess that he had only beheld ` Donkey Skin ' through a keyhole , lest they should laugh at this sudden passion .
All this worry brought back the fever , which the arrival of the cake had diminished for the time ; and the doctors , not knowing what else to say , informed the queen that her son was simply dying of love .
The queen , stricken with horror , rushed into the king 's presence with the news , and together they hastened to their son 's bedside .
` My boy , my dear boy ! '
cried the king , ` who is it you want to marry ?
We will give her to you for a bride , even if she is the humblest of our slaves .
What is there in the whole world that we would not do for you ? '
The prince , moved to tears at these words , drew the ring , which was an emerald of the purest water , from under his pillow .
` Ah , dear father and mother , let this be a proof that she whom I love is no peasant girl .
The finger which that ring fits has never been thickened by hard work .
But be her condition what it may , I will marry no other . '
The king and queen examined the tiny ring very closely , and agreed , with their son , that the wearer could be no mere farm girl .
Then the king went out and ordered heralds and trumpeters to go through the town , summoning every maiden to the palace .
And she whom the ring fitted would some day be queen .
First came all the princesses , then all the duchesses ' daughters , and so on , in proper order .
But not one of them could slip the ring over the tip of her finger , to the great joy of the prince , whom excitement was fast curing .
At last , when the high-born damsels had failed , the shopgirls and chambermaids took their turn ; but with no better fortune .
` Call in the scullions and shepherdesses , ' commanded the prince ; but the sight of their fat , red fingers satisfied everybody .
` There is not a woman left , your Highness , ' said the chamberlain ; but the prince waved him aside .
` Have you sent for `` Donkey Skin , '' who made me the cake ? '
asked he , and the courtiers began to laugh , and replied that they would not have dared to introduce so dirty a creature into the palace .
` Let some one go for her at once , ' ordered the king . '
I commanded the presence of every maiden , high or low , and I meant it . '
The princess had heard the trumpets and the proclamations , and knew quite well that her ring was at the bottom of it all .
She too , had fallen in love with the prince in the brief glimpse she had had of him , and trembled with fear lest someone else 's finger might be as small as her own .
When , therefore , the messenger from the palace rode up to the gate , she was nearly beside herself with delight .
Hoping all the time for such a summons , she had dressed herself with great care , putting on the garment of moonlight , whose skirt was scattered over with emeralds .
But when they began calling to her to come down , she hastily covered herself with her donkey-skin and announced she was ready to present herself before his Highness .
She was taken straight into the hall , where the prince was awaiting her , but at the sight of the donkey-skin his heart sank .
Had he been mistaken after all ?
` Are you the girl , ' he said , turning his eyes away as he spoke , ` are you the girl who has a room in the furthest corner of the inner court of the farmhouse ? '
` Yes , my lord , I am , ' answered she .
` Hold out your hand then , ' continued the prince , feeling that he must keep his word , whatever the cost , and , to the astonishment of every one present , a little hand , white and delicate , came from beneath the black and dirty skin .
The ring slipped on with the utmost ease , and , as it did so , the skin fell to the ground , disclosing a figure of such beauty that the prince , weak as he was , fell on his knees before her , while the king and queen joined their prayers to his .
Indeed , their welcome was so warm , and their caresses so bewildering , that the princess hardly knew how to find words to reply , when the ceiling of the hall opened , and the fairy godmother appeared , seated in a car made entirely of white lilac .
In a few words she explained the history of the princess , and how she came to be there , and , without losing a moment , preparations of the most magnificent kind were made for the wedding .
-LSB- Illustration : The Donkey-skin falls off . -RSB-
The kings of every country in the earth were invited , including , of course , the princess 's adopted father -LRB- who by this time had married a widow -RRB- , and not one refused .
But what a strange assembly it was !
Each monarch travelled in the way he thought most impressive ; and some came borne in litters , others had carriages of every shape and kind , while the rest were mounted on elephants , tigers , and even upon eagles .
So splendid a wedding had never been seen before ; and when it was over the king announced that it was to be followed by a coronation , for he and the queen were tired of reigning , and the young couple must take their place .
The rejoicings lasted for three whole months , then the new sovereigns settled down to govern their kingdom , and made themselves so much beloved by their subjects , that when they died , a hundred years later , each man mourned them as his own father and mother .
-LSB- From Le Cabinet des Fes . -RSB-
THE GOBLIN PONY ` Do n't stir from the fireplace to-night , ' said old Peggy , ` for the wind is blowing so violently that the house shakes ; besides , this is Hallow-e ` en , when the witches are abroad , and the goblins , who are their servants , are wandering about in all sorts of disguises , doing harm to the children of men . '
` Why should I stay here ? '
said the eldest of the young people .
` No , I must go and see what the daughter of old Jacob , the rope-maker , is doing .
She would n't close her blue eyes all night if I did n't visit her father before the moon had gone down . ' '
I must go and catch lobsters and crabs , ' said the second , ` and not all the witches and goblins in the world shall hinder me . '
So they all determined to go on their business or pleasure , and scorned the wise advice of old Peggy .
Only the youngest child hesitated a minute , when she said to him , ` You stay here , my little Richard , and I will tell you beautiful stories . '
But he wanted to pick a bunch of wild thyme and some blackberries by moonlight , and ran out after the others .
When they got outside the house they said : ` The old woman talks of wind and storm , but never was the weather finer or the sky more clear ; see how majestically the moon stalks through the transparent clouds ! '
Then all of a sudden they noticed a little black pony close beside them .
` Oh , ho ! '
they said , ` that is old Valentine 's pony ; it must have escaped from its stable , and is going down to drink at the horse-pond . '
` My pretty little pony , ' said the eldest , patting the creature with his hand , ` you must n't run too far ; I 'll take you to the pond myself . '
With these words he jumped on the pony 's back and was quickly followed by his second brother , then by the third , and so on , till at last they were all astride the little beast , down to the small Richard , who did n't like to be left behind .
-LSB- Illustration : The Goblin Pony -RSB- On the way to the pond they met several of their companions , and they invited them all to mount the pony , which they did , and the little creature did not seem to mind the extra weight , but trotted merrily along .
The quicker it trotted the more the young people enjoyed the fun ; they dug their heels into the pony 's sides and called out , ` Gallop , little horse , you have never had such brave riders on your back before ! '
In the meantime the wind had risen again , and the waves began to howl ; but the pony did not seem to mind the noise , and instead of going to the pond , cantered gaily towards the sea-shore .
Richard began to regret his thyme and blackberries , and the eldest brother seized the pony by the mane and tried to make it turn round , for he remembered the blue eyes of Jacob the rope-maker 's daughter .
But he tugged and pulled in vain , for the pony galloped straight on into the sea , till the waves met its forefeet .
As soon as it felt the water it neighed lustily and capered about with glee , advancing quickly into the foaming billows .
When the waves had covered the children 's legs they repented their careless behaviour , and cried out : ` The cursed little black pony is bewitched .
If we had only listened to old Peggy 's advice we should n't have been lost . '
The further the pony advanced , the higher rose the sea ; at last the waves covered the children 's heads and they were all drowned .
Towards morning old Peggy went out , for she was anxious about the fate of her grandchildren .
She sought them high and low , but could not find them anywhere .
She asked all the neighbours if they had seen the children , but no one knew anything about them , except that the eldest had not been with the blue-eyed daughter of Jacob the rope-maker .
As she was going home , bowed with grief , she saw a little black pony coming towards her , springing and curveting in every direction .
When it got quite near her it neighed loudly , and galloped past her so quickly that in a moment it was out of her sight .
-LSB- From the French , Kletke . -RSB-
AN IMPOSSIBLE ENCHANTMENT There once lived a king who was much loved by his people , and he , too , loved them warmly .
He led a very happy life , but he had the greatest dislike to the idea of marrying , nor had he ever felt the slightest wish to fall in love .
His subjects begged him to marry , and at last he promised to try to do so .
But as , so far , he had never cared for any woman he had seen , he made up his mind to travel in hopes of meeting some lady he could love .
So he arranged all the affairs of state in an orderly manner , and set out , attended by only one equerry , who , though not very clever , had most excellent good sense .
These people indeed generally make the best fellow-travellers .
The king explored several countries , doing all he could to fall in love , but in vain ; and at the end of two years ' journeys he turned his face towards home , with as free a heart as when he set out .
As he was riding along through a forest he suddenly heard the most awful miawing and shrieking of cats you can imagine .
The noise drew nearer , and nearer , and at last they saw a hundred huge Spanish cats rush through the trees close to them .
They were so closely packed together that you could easily have covered them with a large cloak , and all were following the same track .
They were closely pursued by two enormous apes , dressed in purple suits , with the prettiest and best made boots you ever saw .
The apes were mounted on superb mastiffs , and spurred them on in hot haste , blowing shrill blasts on little toy trumpets all the time .
The king and his equerry stood still to watch this strange hunt , which was followed by twenty or more little dwarfs , some mounted on wolves , and leading relays , and others with cats in leash .
The dwarfs were all dressed in purple silk liveries like the apes .
A moment later a beautiful young woman mounted on a tiger came in sight .
She passed close to the king , riding at full speed , without taking any notice of him ; but he was at once enchanted by her , and his heart was gone in a moment .
-LSB- Illustration : The King sees Princess Mutinosa out hunting -RSB- To his great joy he saw that one of the dwarfs had fallen behind the rest , and at once began to question him .
The dwarf told him that the lady he had just seen was the Princess Mutinosa , the daughter of the king in whose country they were at that moment .
He added that the princess was very fond of hunting , and that she was now in pursuit of rabbits .
The king then asked the way to the court , and having been told it , hurried off , and reached the capital in a couple of hours .
As soon as he arrived , he presented himself to the king and queen , and on mentioning his own name and that of his country , was received with open arms .
Not long after , the princess returned , and hearing that the hunt had been very successful , the king complimented her on it , but she would not answer a word .
Her silence rather surprised him , but he was still more astonished when he found that she never spoke once all through supper-time .
Sometimes she seemed about to speak , but whenever this was the case her father or mother at once took up the conversation .
However , this silence did not cool the king 's affection , and when he retired to his rooms at night he confided his feelings to his faithful equerry .
But the equerry was by no means delighted at his king 's love affair , and took no pains to hide his disappointment .
` But why are you vexed ? '
asked the king .
` Surely the princess is beautiful enough to please anyone ? '
` She is certainly very handsome , ' replied the equerry , ` but to be really happy in love something more than beauty is required .
To tell the truth , sire , ' he added , ` her expression seems to me hard . '
` That is pride and dignity , ' said the king , ` and nothing can be more becoming . '
` Pride or hardness , as you will , ' said the equerry ; ` but to my mind the choice of so many fierce creatures for her amusements seems to tell of a fierce nature , and I also think there is something suspicious in the care taken to prevent her speaking . '
The equerry 's remarks were full of good sense ; but as opposition is only apt to increase love in the hearts of men , and especially of kings who hate being contradicted , this king begged , the very next day , for the hand of the Princess Mutinosa .
It was granted him on two conditions .
The first was that the wedding should take place the very next day ; and the second , that he should not speak to the princess till she was his wife ; to all of which the king agreed , in spite of his equerry 's objections , so that the first word he heard his bride utter was the ` Yes ' she spoke at their marriage .
Once married , however , she no longer placed any check on herself , and her ladies-in-waiting came in for plenty of rude speeches -- even the king did not escape scolding ; but as he was a good-tempered man , and very much in love , he bore it patiently .
A few days after the wedding the newly married pair set out for their kingdom without leaving many regrets behind .
The good equerry 's fears proved only too true , as the king found out to his cost .
The young queen made herself most disagreeable to all her court , her spite and bad temper knew no bounds , and before the end of a month she was known far and wide as a regular vixen .
One day , when riding out , she met a poor old woman walking along the road , who made a curtsy and was going on , when the queen had her stopped , and cried : ` You are a very impertinent person ; do n't you know that I am the queen ?
And how dare you not make me a deeper curtsy ? '
` Madam , ' said the old woman , ' I have never learnt how to measure curtsies ; but I had no wish to fail in proper respect . '
` What ! '
screamed the queen ; ` she dares to answer !
Tie her to my horse 's tail and I 'll just carry her at once to the best dancing-master in the town to learn how to curtsy . '
The old woman shrieked for mercy , but the queen would not listen , and only mocked when she said she was protected by the fairies .
At last the poor old thing submitted to be tied up , but when the queen urged her horse on he never stirred .
In vain she spurred him , he seemed turned to bronze .
At the same moment the cord with which the old woman was tied changed into wreaths of flowers , and she herself into a tall and stately lady .
Looking disdainfully at the queen , she said , ` Bad woman , unworthy of your crown ; I wished to judge for myself whether all I heard of you was true .
I have now no doubt of it , and you shall see whether the fairies are to be laughed at . '
So saying the fairy Placida -LRB- that was her name -RRB- blew a little gold whistle , and a chariot appeared drawn by six splendid ostriches .
In it was seated the fairy queen , escorted by a dozen other fairies mounted on dragons .
All having dismounted , Placida told her adventures , and the fairy queen approved all she had done , and proposed turning Mutinosa into bronze like her horse .
Placida , however , who was very kind and gentle , begged for a milder sentence , and at last it was settled that Mutinosa should become her slave for life unless she should have a child to take her place .
The king was told of his wife 's fate and submitted to it , which , as he could do nothing to help it , was the only course open to him .
The fairies then all dispersed , Placida taking her slave with her , and on reaching her palace she said : ` You ought by rights to be scullion , but as you have been delicately brought up the change might be too great for you .
I shall therefore only order you to sweep my rooms carefully , and to wash and comb my little dog . '
Mutinosa felt there was no use in disobeying , so she did as she was bid and said nothing .
After some time she gave birth to a most lovely little girl , and when she was well again the fairy gave her a good lecture on her past life , made her promise to behave better in future , and sent her back to the king , her husband .
Placida now gave herself up entirely to the little princess who was left in her charge .
She anxiously thought over which of the fairies she would invite to be godmothers , so as to secure the best gift , for her adopted child .
At last she decided on two very kindly and cheerful fairies , and asked them to the christening feast .
Directly it was over the baby was brought to them in a lovely crystal cradle hung with red silk curtains embroidered with gold .
The little thing smiled so sweetly at the fairies that they decided to do all they could for her .
They began by naming her Graziella , and then Placida said : ` You know , dear sisters , that the commonest form of spite or punishment amongst us consists of changing beauty to ugliness , cleverness to stupidity , and oftener still to change a person 's form altogether .
Now , as we can only each bestow one gift , I think the best plan will be for one of you to give her beauty , the other good understanding , whilst I will undertake that she shall never be changed into any other form . '
The two godmothers quite agreed , and as soon as the little princess had received their gifts , they went home , and Placida gave herself up to the child 's education .
She succeeded so well with it , and little Graziella grew so lovely , that when she was still quite a child her fame was spread abroad only too much , and one day Placida was surprised by a visit from the Fairy Queen , who was attended by a very grave and severe-looking fairy .
The queen began at once : ' I have been much surprised by your behaviour to Mutinosa ; she had insulted our whole race , and deserved punishment .
You might forgive your own wrongs if you chose , but not those of others .
You treated her very gently whilst she was with you , and I come now to avenge our wrongs on her daughter .
You have ensured her being lovely and clever , and not subject to change of form , but I shall place her in an enchanted prison , which she shall never leave till she finds herself in the arms of a lover whom she herself loves .
It will be my care to prevent anything of the kind happening . '
The enchanted prison was a large high tower in the midst of the sea , built of shells of all shapes and colours .
The lower floor was like a great bathroom , where the water was let in or off at will .
The first floor contained the princess 's apartments , beautifully furnished .
On the second was a library , a large wardrobe-room filled with beautiful clothes and every kind of linen , a music room , a pantry with bins full of the best wines , and a store-room with all manner of preserves , bonbons , pastry and cakes , all of which remained as fresh as if just out of the oven .
The top of the tower was laid out like a garden , with beds of the loveliest flowers , fine fruit trees , and shady arbours and shrubs , where many birds sang amongst the branches .
The fairies escorted Graziella and her governess , Bonnetta , to the tower , and then mounted a dolphin which was waiting for them .
At a little distance from the tower the queen waved her wand and summoned two thousand great fierce sharks , whom she ordered to keep close guard , and not to let a soul enter the tower .
The good governess took such pains with Graziella 's education that when she was nearly grown up she was not only most accomplished , but a very sweet , good girl .
One day , as the princess was standing on a balcony , she saw the most extraordinary figure rise out of the sea .
She quickly called Bonnetta to ask her what it could be .
It looked like some kind of man , with a bluish face and long sea-green hair .
He was swimming towards the tower , but the sharks took no notice of him .
` It must be a merman , ' said Bonnetta . '
A man , do you say ? '
cried Graziella ; ` let us hurry down to the door and see him nearer . '
When they stood in the doorway the merman stopped to look at the princess and made many signs of admiration .
His voice was very hoarse and husky , but when he found that he was not understood he took to signs .
He carried a little basket made of osiers and filled with rare shells , which he presented to the princess .
She took it with signs of thanks ; but as it was getting dusk she retired , and the merman plunged back into the sea .
When they were alone , Graziella said to her governess : ` What a dreadful-looking creature that was !
Why do those odious sharks let him come near the tower ?
I suppose all men are not like him ? '
` No , indeed , ' replied Bonnetta . '
I suppose the sharks look on him as a sort of relation , and so did not attack him . '
A few days later the two ladies heard a strange sort of music , and looking out of the window , there was the merman , his head crowned with water plants , and blowing a great sea-shell with all his might .
They went down to the tower door , and Graziella politely accepted some coral and other marine curiosities he had brought her .
After this he used to come every evening , and blow his shell , or dive and play antics under the princess 's window .
She contented herself with bowing to him from the balcony , but she would not go down to the door in spite of all his signs .
Some days later he came with a person of his own kind , but of another sex .
Her hair was dressed with great taste , and she had a lovely voice .
This new arrival induced the ladies to go down to the door .
They were surprised to find that , after trying various languages , she at last spoke to them in their own , and paid Graziella a very pretty compliment on her beauty .
The mermaid noticed that the lower floor was full of water .
` Why , ' cried she , ` that is just the place for us , for we ca n't live quite out of water . '
So saying , she and her brother swam in and took up a position in the bathroom , the princess and her governess seating themselves on the steps which ran round the room .
-LSB- Illustration : The Sea-People visit Graziella -RSB- ` No doubt , madam , ' said the mermaid , ` you have given up living on land so as to escape from crowds of lovers ; but I fear that even here you can not avoid them , for my brother is already dying of love for you , and I am sure that once you are seen in our city he will have many rivals . '
She then went on to explain how grieved her brother was not to be able to make himself understood , adding : ' I interpret for him , having been taught several languages by a fairy . '
` Oh , then , you have fairies , too ? '
asked Graziella , with a sigh .
` Yes , we have , ' replied the mermaid ; ` but if I am not mistaken you have suffered from the fairies on earth . '
The princess , on this , told her entire history to the mermaid , who assured her how sorry she felt for her , but begged her not to lose courage ; adding , as she took her leave : ` Perhaps , some day , you may find a way out of your difficulties . '
The princess was delighted with this visit and with the hopes the mermaid held out .
It was something to meet some one fresh to talk to .
` We will make acquaintance with several of these people , ' she said to her governess , ` and I dare say they are not all as hideous as the first one we saw .
Anyhow , we sha n't be so dreadfully lonely . '
` Dear me , ' said Bonnetta , ` how hopeful young people are to be sure !
As for me I feel afraid of these folk .
But what do you think of the lover you have captivated ? '
` Oh , I could never love him , ' cried the princess ; ' I ca n't bear him .
But , perhaps , as his sister says they are related to the fairy Marina , they may be of some use to us . '
The mermaid often returned , and each time she talked of her brother 's love , and each time Graziella talked of her longing to escape from her prison , till at length the mermaid promised to bring the fairy Marina to see her , in hopes she might suggest something .
Next day the fairy came with the mermaid , and the princess received her with delight .
After a little talk she begged Graziella to show her the inside of the tower and let her see the garden on the top , for with the help of crutches she could manage to move about , and being a fairy could live out of water for a long time , provided she wetted her forehead now and then .
Graziella gladly consented , and Bonnetta stayed below with the mermaid .
When they were in the garden the fairy said : ` Let us lose no time , but tell me how I can be of use to you . '
Graziella then told all her story and Marina replied : ` My dear princess , I can do nothing for you as regards dry land , for my power does not reach beyond my own element .
I can only say that if you will honour my cousin by accepting his hand , you could then come and live amongst us .
I could teach you in a moment to swim and dive with the best of us .
I can harden your skin without spoiling its colour .
My cousin is one of the best matches in the sea , and I will bestow so many gifts on him that you will be quite happy . '
The fairy talked so well and so long that the princess was rather impressed , and promised to think the matter over .
Just as they were going to leave the garden they saw a ship sailing nearer the tower than any other had done before .
On the deck lay a young man under a splendid awning , gazing at the tower through a spy-glass ; but before they could see anything clearly the ship moved away , and the two ladies parted , the fairy promising to return shortly .
As soon as she was gone Graziella told her governess what she had said .
Bonnetta was not at all pleased at the turn matters were taking , for she did not fancy being turned into a mermaid in her old age .
She thought the matter well over , and this was what she did .
She was a very clever artist , and next morning she began to paint a picture of a handsome young man , with beautiful curly hair , a fine complexion , and lovely blue eyes .
When it was finished she showed it to Graziella , hoping it would show her the difference there was between a fine young man and her marine suitor .
The princess was much struck by the picture , and asked anxiously whether there could be any man so good-looking in the world .
Bonnetta assured her that there were plenty of them ; indeed , many far handsomer . '
I can hardly believe that , ' cried the princess ; ` but , alas !
if there are , I do n't suppose I shall ever see them or they me , so what is the use ?
Oh , dear , how unhappy I am ! '
She spent the rest of the day gazing at the picture , which certainly had the effect of spoiling all the merman 's hopes or prospects .
After some days , the fairy Marina came back to hear what was decided ; but Graziella hardly paid any attention to her , and showed such dislike to the idea of the proposed marriage that the fairy went off in a regular huff .
Without knowing it , the princess had made another conquest .
On board the ship which had sailed so near was the handsomest prince in the world .
He had heard of the enchanted tower , and determined to get as near it as he could .
He had strong glasses on board , and whilst looking through them he saw the princess quite clearly , and fell desperately in love with her at once .
He wanted to steer straight for the tower and to row off to it in a small boat , but his entire crew fell at his feet and begged him not to run such a risk .
The captain , too , urged him not to attempt it .
` You will only lead us all to certain death , ' he said .
` Pray anchor nearer land , and I will then seek a kind fairy I know , who has always been most obliging to me , and who will , I am sure , try to help your Highness . '
The prince rather unwillingly listened to reason .
He landed at the nearest point , and sent off the captain in all haste to beg the fairy 's advice and help .
Meantime he had a tent pitched on the shore , and spent all his time gazing at the tower and looking for the princess through his spy-glass .
After a few days the captain came back , bringing the fairy with him .
The prince was delighted to see her , and paid her great attention . '
I have heard about this matter , ' she said ; ` and , to lose no time , I am going to send off a trusty pigeon to test the enchantment .
If there is any weak spot he is sure to find it out and get in .
I shall bid him bring a flower back as a sign of success , and if he does so I quite hope to get you in too . '
` But , ' asked the prince , ` could I not send a line by the pigeon to tell the princess of my love ? '
` Certainly , ' replied the fairy , ` it would be a very good plan . '
So the prince wrote as follows : -- ` Lovely Princess , -- I adore you , and beg you to accept my heart , and to believe there is nothing I will not do to end your misfortunes .
-- Blondel . '
This note was tied round the pigeon 's neck , and he flew off with it at once .
He flew fast till he got near the tower , when a fierce wind blew so hard against him that he could not get on .
But he was not to be beaten , but flew carefully round the top of the tower till he came to one spot which , by some mistake , had not been enchanted like the rest .
He quickly slipped into the arbour and waited for the princess .
Before long Graziella appeared alone , and the pigeon at once fluttered to meet her , and seemed so tame that she stopped to caress the pretty creature .
As she did so she saw it had a pink ribbon round its neck , and tied to the ribbon was a letter .
She read it over several times and then wrote this answer : -- ` You say you love me ; but I can not promise to love you without seeing you .
Send me your portrait by this faithful messenger .
If I return it to you , you must give up hope ; but if I keep it you will know that to help me will be to help yourself .
-- Graziella . '
Before flying back the pigeon remembered about the flower , so , seeing one in the princess 's dress , he stole it and flew away .
The prince was wild with joy at the pigeon 's return with the note .
After an hour 's rest the trusty little bird was sent back again , carrying a miniature of the prince , which by good luck he had with him .
On reaching the tower the pigeon found the princess in the garden .
She hastened to untie the ribbon , and on opening the miniature case what was her surprise and delight to find it very like the picture her governess had painted for her .
She hastened to send the pigeon back , and you can fancy the prince 's joy when he found she had kept his portrait .
` Now , ' said the fairy , ` let us lose no more time .
I can only make you happy by changing you into a bird , but I will take care to give you back your proper shape at the right time . '
The prince was eager to start , so the fairy , touching him with her wand , turned him into the loveliest humming-bird you ever saw , at the same time letting him keep the power of speech .
The pigeon was told to show him the way .
Graziella was much surprised to see a perfectly strange bird , and still more so when it flew to her saying , ` Good-morning , sweet princess . '
She was delighted with the pretty creature , and let him perch on her finger , when he said , ` Kiss , kiss , little birdie , ' which she gladly did , petting and stroking him at the same time .
After a time the princess , who had been up very early , grew tired , and as the sun was hot she went to lie down on a mossy bank in the shade of the arbour .
She held the pretty bird near her breast , and was just falling asleep , when the fairy contrived to restore the prince to his own shape , so that as Graziella opened her eyes she found herself in the arms of a lover whom she loved in return !
At the same moment her enchantment came to an end .
The tower began to rock and to split .
Bonnetta hurried up to the top so that she might at least perish with her dear princess .
Just as she reached the garden , the kind fairy who had helped the prince arrived with the fairy Placida , in a car of Venetian glass drawn by six eagles .
-LSB- Illustration : The Fairy-Car Arrives . -RSB-
` Come away quickly , ' they cried , ` the tower is about to sink ! '
The prince , princess , and Bonnetta lost no time in stepping into the car , which rose in the air just as , with a terrible crash , the tower sank into the depths of the sea , for the fairy Marina and the mermen had destroyed its foundations to avenge themselves on Graziella .
Luckily their wicked plans were defeated , and the good fairies took their way to the kingdom of Graziella 's parents .
They found that Queen Mutinosa had died some years ago , but her kind husband lived on peaceably , ruling his country well and happily .
He received his daughter with great delight , and there were universal rejoicings at the return of the lovely princess .
The wedding took place the very next day , and , for many days after , balls , dinners , tournaments , concerts and all sorts of amusements went on all day and all night .
All the fairies were carefully invited , and they came in great state , and promised the young couple their protection and all sorts of good gifts .
Prince Blondel and Princess Graziella lived to a good old age , beloved by every one , and loving each other more and more as time went on .
THE STORY OF DSCHEMIL AND DSCHEMILA There was once a man whose name was Dschemil , and he had a cousin who was called Dschemila .
They had been betrothed by their parents when they were children , and now Dschemil thought that the time had come for them to be married , and he went two or three days ' journey , to the nearest big town , to buy furniture for the new house .
While he was away , Dschemila and her friends set off to the neighbouring woods to pick up sticks , and as she gathered them she found an iron mortar lying on the ground .
She placed it on her bundle of sticks , but the mortar would not stay still , and whenever she raised the bundle to put it on her shoulders it slipped off sideways .
At length she saw the only way to carry the mortar was to tie it in the very middle of her bundle , and had just unfastened her sticks , when she heard her companions ' voices .
` Dschemila , what are you doing ?
it is almost dark , and if you mean to come with us you must be quick ! '
But Dschemila only replied , ` You had better go back without me , for I am not going to leave my mortar behind , if I stay here till midnight . '
` Do as you like , ' said the girls , and started on their walk home .
The night soon fell , and at the last ray of light the mortar suddenly became an ogre , who threw Dschemila on his back , and carried her off into a desert place , distant a whole month 's journey from her native town .
Here he shut her into a castle , and told her not to fear , as her life was safe .
Then he went back to his wife , leaving Dschemila weeping over the fate that she had brought upon herself .
Meanwhile the other girls had reached home , and Dschemila 's mother came out to look for her daughter .
` What have you done with her ? '
she asked anxiously .
` We had to leave her in the wood , ' they replied , ` for she had picked up an iron mortar , and could not manage to carry it . '
So the old woman set off at once for the forest , calling to her daughter as she hurried along .
` Do go home , ' cried the townspeople , as they heard her ; ` we will go and look for your daughter ; you are only a woman , and it is a task that needs strong men . '
But she answered , ` Yes , go ; but I will go with you !
Perhaps it will be only her corpse that we shall find after all .
She has most likely been stung by asps , or eaten by wild beasts . '
The men , seeing her heart was bent on it , said no more , but told one of the girls she must come with them , and show them the place where they had left Dschemila .
They found the bundle of wood lying where she had dropped it , but the maiden was nowhere to be seen .
` Dschemila !
Dschemila ! '
cried they ; but nobody answered .
` If we make a fire , perhaps she will see it , ' said one of the men .
And they lit a fire , and then went , one this way , and one that , through the forest , to look for her , whispering to each other that if she had been killed by a lion they would be sure to find some trace of it ; or if she had fallen asleep , the sound of their voices would wake her ; or if a snake had bitten her , they would at least come on her corpse .
All night they searched , and when morning broke and they knew no more than before what had become of the maiden , they grew weary , and said to the mother : ` It is no use .
Let us go home , nothing has happened to your daughter , except that she has run away with a man . '
` Yes , I will come , ' answered she , ` but I must first look in the river .
Perhaps some one has thrown her in there . '
But the maiden was not in the river .
For four days the father and mother waited and watched for their child to come back ; then they gave up hope , and said to each other : ` What is to be done ?
What are we to say to the man to whom Dschemila is betrothed ?
Let us kill a goat , and bury its head in the grave , and when the man returns we must tell him Dschemila is dead . '
Very soon the bridegroom came back , bringing with him carpets and soft cushions for the house of his bride .
And as he entered the town Dschemila 's father met him , saying , ` Greeting to you .
She is dead . '
At these words the young man broke into loud cries , and it was some time before he could speak .
Then he turned to one of the crowd who had gathered round him , and asked : ` Where have they buried her ? '
` Come to the churchyard with me , ' answered he ; and the young man went with him , carrying with him some of the beautiful things he had brought .
These he laid on the grass and then began to weep afresh .
All day he stayed , and at nightfall he gathered up his stuffs and carried them to his own house .
But when the day dawned he took them in his arms and returned to the grave , where he remained as long as it was light , playing softly on his flute .
And this he did daily for six months .
* * * * * One morning , a man who was wandering through the desert , having lost his way , came upon a lonely castle .
The sun was very hot , and the man was very tired , so he said to himself , ' I will rest a little in the shadow of this castle . '
He stretched himself out comfortably , and was almost asleep , when he heard a voice calling to him softly : ` Are you a ghost , ' it said , ` or a man ? '
He looked up , and saw a girl leaning out of a window , and he answered : ' I am a man , and a better one , too , than your father or your grandfather . '
` May all good luck be with you , ' said she ; ` but what has brought you into this land of ogres and horrors ? '
` Does an ogre really live in this castle ? '
asked he .
` Certainly he does , ' replied the girl , ` and as night is not far off he will be here soon .
So , dear friend , depart quickly , lest he return and snap you up for supper . '
` But I am so thirsty ! '
said the man .
` Be kind , and give me some drink , or else I shall die !
Surely , even in this desert there must be some spring ? '
` Well , I have noticed that whenever the ogre brings back water he always comes from that side ; so if you follow the same direction perhaps you may find some . '
The man jumped up at once and was about to start , when the maiden spoke again : ` Tell me , where you are going ? '
` Why do you want to know ? ' '
I have an errand for you ; but tell me first whether you go east or west . ' '
I travel to Damascus . '
` Then do this for me .
As you pass through our village , ask for a man called Dschemil , and say to him : `` Dschemila greets you , from the castle , which lies far away , and is rocked by the wind .
In my grave lies only a goat .
So take heart . '' '
And the man promised , and went his way , till he came to a spring of water .
And he drank a great draught and then lay on the bank and slept quietly .
When he woke he said to himself , ` The maiden did a good deed when she told me where to find water .
A few hours more , and I should have been dead .
So I will do her bidding , and seek out her native town and the man for whom the message was given . '
For a whole month he travelled , till at last he reached the town where Dschemil dwelt , and as luck would have it , there was the young man sitting before his door with his beard unshaven and his shaggy hair hanging over his eyes .
` Welcome , stranger , ' said Dschemil , as the man stopped .
` Where have you come from ? ' '
I come from the west , and go towards the east , ' he answered .
` Well , stop with us awhile , and rest and eat ! '
said Dschemil .
And the man entered ; and food was set before him , and he sat down with the father of the maiden and her brothers , and Dschemil .
Only Dschemil himself was absent , squatting on the threshold .
` Why do you not eat too ? '
asked the stranger .
But one of the young men whispered hastily : ` Leave him alone .
Take no notice !
It is only at night that he ever eats . '
So the stranger went on silently with his food .
Suddenly one of Dschemil 's brothers called out and said : ` Dschemil , bring us some water ! '
And the stranger remembered his message and said : ` Is there a man here named `` Dschemil '' ?
I lost my way in the desert , and came to a castle , and a maiden looked out of the window and -- ' ` Be quiet , ' they cried , fearing that Dschemil might hear .
But Dschemil had heard , and came forward and said : ` What did you see ?
Tell me truly , or I will cut off your head this instant ! '
` My lord , ' replied the stranger , ` as I was wandering , hot and tired , through the desert , I saw near me a great castle , and I said aloud , `` I will rest a little in its shadow . ''
And a maiden looked out of a window and said , `` Are you a ghost or a man ? ''
And I answered .
`` I am a man , and a better one , too , than your father or your grandfather . ''
And I was thirsty and asked for water , but she had none to give me , and I felt like to die .
Then she told me that the ogre , in whose castle she dwelt , brought in water always from the same side , and that if I too went that way most likely I should come to it .
But before I started she begged me to go to her native town , and if I met a man called Dschemil I was to say to him , `` Dschemila greets you , from the castle which lies far away , and is rocked by the wind .
In my grave lies only a goat .
So take heart . '' '
Then Dschemil turned to his family and said : ` Is this true ?
and is Dschemila not dead at all , but simply stolen from her home ? '
` No , no , ' replied they , ` his story is a pack of lies .
Dschemila is really dead .
Everybody knows it . '
` That I shall see for myself , ' said Dschemil , and , snatching up a spade , hastened off to the grave where the goat 's head lay buried .
And they answered , ` Then hear what really happened .
When you were away , she went with the other maidens to the forest to gather wood .
And there she found an iron mortar , which she wished to bring home ; but she could not carry it , neither would she leave it .
So the maidens returned without her , and as night was come , we all set out to look for her , but found nothing .
And we said , `` The bridegroom will be here to-morrow , and when he learns that she is lost , he will set out to seek her , and we shall lose him too .
Let us kill a goat , and bury it in her grave , and tell him she is dead . ''
Now you know , so do as you will .
Only , if you go to seek her , take with you this man with whom she has spoken that he may show you the way . '
` Yes ; that is the best plan , ' replied Dschemil ; ` so give me food , and hand me my sword , and we will set out directly . '
But the stranger answered : ' I am not going to waste a whole month in leading you to the castle !
If it were only a day or two 's journey I would not mind ; but a month -- no ! '
` Come with me then for three days , ' said Dschemil , ` and put me in the right road , and I will reward you richly . '
` Very well , ' replied the stranger , ` so let it be . '
For three days they travelled from sunrise to sunset , then the stranger said : ` Dschemil ? '
` Yes , ' replied he .
` Go straight on till you reach a spring , then go on a little farther , and soon you will see the castle standing before you . '
` So I will , ' said Dschemil .
` Farewell , then , ' said the stranger , and turned back the way he had come .
It was six and twenty days before Dschemil caught sight of a green spot rising out of the sandy desert , and knew that the spring was near at last .
He hastened his steps , and soon was kneeling by its side , drinking thirstily of the bubbling water .
Then he lay down on the cool grass , and began to think .
` If the man was right , the castle must be somewhere about .
I had better sleep here to-night , and to-morrow I shall be able to see where it is . '
So he slept long and peacefully .
When he awoke the sun was high , and he jumped up and washed his face and hands in the spring , before going on his journey .
He had not walked far , when the castle suddenly appeared before him , though a moment before not a trace of it could be seen .
` How am I to get in ? '
he thought . '
I dare not knock , lest the ogre should hear me .
Perhaps it would be best for me to climb up the wall , and wait to see what will happen . '
So he did , and after sitting on the top for about an hour , a window above him opened , and a voice said : ` Dschemil ! '
He looked up , and at the sight of Dschemila , whom he had so long believed to be dead , he began to weep .
` Dear cousin , ' she whispered , ` what has brought you here ? '
` My grief at losing you . '
` Oh !
go away at once .
If the ogre comes back he will kill you . ' '
I swear by your head , queen of my heart , that I have not found you only to lose you again !
If I must die , well , I must ! '
` Oh , what can I do for you ? '
` Anything you like ! '
` If I let you down a cord , can you make it fast under your arms , and climb up ? '
` Of course I can , ' said he .
So Dschemila lowered the cord , and Dschemil tied it round him , and climbed up to her window .
Then they embraced each other tenderly , and burst into tears of joy .
` But what shall I do when the ogre returns ? '
asked she .
` Trust to me , ' he said .
Now there was a chest in the room , where Dschemila kept her clothes .
And she made Dschemil get into it , and lie at the bottom , and told him to keep very still .
He was only hidden just in time , for the lid was hardly closed when the ogre 's heavy tread was heard on the stairs .
He flung open the door , bringing men 's flesh for himself and lamb 's flesh for the maiden . '
I smell the smell of a man ! '
he thundered .
` What is he doing here ? '
` How could any one have come to this desert place ? '
asked the girl , and burst into tears .
` Do not cry , ' said the ogre ; ` perhaps a raven has dropped some scraps from his claws . '
` Ah , yes , I was forgetting , ' answered she .
` One did drop some bones about . '
` Well , burn them to powder , ' replied the ogre , ` so that I may swallow it . '
So the maiden took some bones and burned them , and gave them to the ogre , saying , ` Here is the powder , swallow it . '
And when he had swallowed the powder the ogre stretched himself out and went to sleep .
In a little while the man 's flesh , which the maiden was cooking for the ogre 's supper , called out and said : ` Hist !
Hist !
A man lies in the kist ! '
And the lamb 's flesh answered : ` He is your brother , And cousin of the other . '
The ogre moved sleepily , and asked , ` What did the meat say , Dschemila ? '
` Only that I must be sure to add salt . '
` Well , add salt . '
` Yes , I have done so , ' said she .
The ogre was soon sound asleep again , when the man 's flesh called out a second time : ` Hist !
Hist !
A man lies in the kist ! '
And the lamb 's flesh answered : ` He is your brother , And cousin of the other . '
` What did it say , Dschemila ? '
asked the ogre .
` Only that I must add pepper . '
` Well , add pepper . '
` Yes , I have done so , ' said she .
The ogre had had a long day 's hunting , and could not keep himself awake .
In a moment his eyes were tight shut , and then the man 's flesh called out for the third time : ` Hist !
Hist !
A man lies in the kist . '
-LSB- Illustration : DSCHEMILA-OUTWITS-THE-OGRE -RSB- And the lamb 's flesh answered : ` He is your brother , And cousin of the other . '
` What did it say , Dschemila ? '
asked the ogre .
` Only that it was ready , and that I had better take it off the fire . '
` Then if it is ready , bring it to me , and I will eat it . '
So she brought it to him , and while he was eating she supped of the lamb 's flesh herself , and managed to put some aside for her cousin .
When the ogre had finished , and had washed his hands , he said to Dschemila : ` Make my bed , for I am tired . '
So she made his bed , and put a nice soft pillow for his head , and tucked him up .
` Father , ' she said suddenly .
` Well , what is it ? '
` Dear father , if you are really asleep , why are your eyes always open ? '
` Why do you ask that , Dschemila ?
Do you want to deal treacherously with me ? '
` No , of course not , father .
How could I , and what would be the use of it ? '
` Well , why do you want to know ? '
` Because last night I woke up and saw the whole place shining in a red light , which frightened me . '
` That happens when I am fast asleep . '
` And what is the good of the pin you always keep here so carefully ? '
` If I throw that pin in front of me , it turns into an iron mountain . '
` And this darning needle ? '
` That becomes a sea . '
` And this hatchet ? '
` That becomes a thorn hedge , which no one can pass through .
But why do you ask all these questions ?
I am sure you have something in your head . '
` Oh , I just wanted to know ; and how could anyone find me out here ? '
and she began to cry .
` Oh , do n't cry , I was only in fun , ' said the ogre .
He was soon asleep again , and a yellow light shone through the castle .
` Come quick ! '
called Dschemil from the chest ; ` we must fly now while the ogre is asleep . '
` Not yet , ' she said , ` there is a yellow light shining .
I do n't think he is asleep . '
So they waited for an hour .
Then Dschemil whispered again : ` Wake up !
There is no time to lose ! '
` Let me see if he is asleep , ' said she , and she peeped in , and saw a red light shining .
Then she stole back to her cousin , and asked , ` But how are we to get out ? '
` Get the rope , and I will let you down . '
So she fetched the rope , the hatchet , and the pin and the needles , and said , ` Take them , and put them in the pocket of your cloak , and be sure not to lose them . '
Dschemil put them carefully in his pocket , and tied the rope round her , and let her down over the wall .
` Are you safe ? '
he asked .
` Yes , quite . '
` Then untie the rope , so that I may draw it up . '
And Dschemila did as she was told , and in a few minutes he stood beside her .
Now all this time the ogre was asleep , and had heard nothing .
Then his dog came to him and said , ` O , sleeper , are you having pleasant dreams ?
Dschemila has forsaken you and run away . '
The ogre got out of bed , gave the dog a kick , then went back again , and slept till morning .
When it grew light , he rose , and called , ` Dschemila !
Dschemila ! '
but he only heard the echo of his own voice !
Then he dressed himself quickly ; buckled on his sword and whistled to his dog , and followed the road which he knew the fugitives must have taken .
` Cousin , ' said Dschemila suddenly , and turning round as she spoke .
` What is it ? '
answered he .
` The ogre is coming after us .
I saw him . '
` But where is he ?
I do n't see him . '
` Over there .
He only looks about as tall as a needle . '
Then they both began to run as fast as they could , while the ogre and his dog kept drawing always nearer .
A few more steps , and he would have been by their side , when Dschemila threw the darning needle behind her .
In a moment it became an iron mountain between them and their enemy .
` We will break it down , my dog and I , ' cried the ogre in a rage , and they dashed at the mountain till they had forced a path through , and came ever nearer and nearer .
` Cousin ! '
said Dschemila suddenly .
` What is it ? '
` The ogre is coming after us with his dog . '
` You go on in front then , ' answered he ; and they both ran on as fast as they could , while the ogre and the dog drew always nearer and nearer .
` They are close upon us ! '
cried the maiden , glancing behind , ` you must throw the pin . '
So Dschemil took the pin from his cloak and threw it behind him , and a dense thicket of thorns sprang up round them , which the ogre and his dog could not pass through . '
I will get through it somehow , if I burrow underground , ' cried he , and very soon he and the dog were on the other side .
` Cousin , ' said Dschemila , ` they are close to us now . '
` Go on in front , and fear nothing , ' replied Dschemil .
So she ran on a little way , and then stopped .
` He is only a few yards away now , ' she said , and Dschemil flung the hatchet on the ground , and it turned into a lake . '
I will drink , and my dog shall drink , till it is dry , ' shrieked the ogre , and the dog drank so much that it burst and died .
But the ogre did not stop for that , and soon the whole lake was nearly dry .
Then he exclaimed , ` Dschemila , let your head become a donkey 's head , and your hair fur ! '
-LSB- Illustration : DSCHEMILA GETS AN ASS 'S HEAD -RSB- But when it was done , Dschemil looked at her in horror , and said , ` She is really a donkey , and not a woman at all ! '
And he left her , and went home .
For two days poor Dschemila wandered about alone , weeping bitterly .
When her cousin drew near his native town , he began to think over his conduct , and to feel ashamed of himself .
` Perhaps by this time she has changed back to her proper shape , ' he said to himself , ' I will go and see ! '
So he made all the haste he could , and at last he saw her seated on a rock , trying to keep off the wolves , who longed to have her for dinner .
He drove them off and said , ` Get up , dear cousin , you have had a narrow escape . '
Dschemila stood up and answered , ` Bravo , my friend .
You persuaded me to fly with you , and then left me helplessly to my fate . '
` Shall I tell you the truth ? '
asked he .
` Tell it . ' '
I thought you were a witch , and I was afraid of you . '
` Did you not see me before my transformation ?
and did you not watch it happen under your very eyes , when the ogre bewitched me ? '
` What shall I do ? '
said Dschemil .
` If I take you into the town , everyone will laugh , and say , `` Is that a new kind of toy you have got ?
It has hands like a woman , feet like a woman , the body of a woman ; but its head is the head of an ass , and its hair is fur . '' '
` Well , what do you mean to do with me ? '
asked Dschemila .
` Better take me home to my mother by night , and tell no one anything about it . '
` So I will , ' said he .
They waited where they were till it was nearly dark , then Dschemil brought his cousin home .
` Is that Dschemil ? '
asked the mother when he knocked softly .
` Yes , it is . '
` And have you found her ? '
` Yes , and I have brought her to you . '
` Oh , where is she ?
let me see her ! '
cried the mother .
` Here , behind me , ' answered Dschemil .
But when the poor woman caught sight of her daughter , she shrieked , and exclaimed , ` Are you making fun of me ?
When did I ever give birth to an ass ? '
` Hush ! '
said Dschemil , ` it is not necessary to let the whole world know !
And if you look at her body , you will see two scars on it . '
` Mother , ' sobbed Dschemila , ` do you really not know your own daughter ? '
` Yes , of course I know her . '
` What are her two scars then ? '
` On her thigh is a scar from the bite of a dog , and on her breast is the mark of a burn , where she pulled a lamp over her when she was little . '
` Then look at me , and see if I am not your daughter , ' said Dschemila , throwing off her clothes and showing her two scars .
And at the sight her mother embraced her , weeping .
` Dear daughter , ' she cried , ` what evil fate has befallen you ? '
` It was the ogre who carried me off first , and then bewitched me , ' answered Dschemila .
` But what is to be done with you ? '
asked her mother .
` Hide me away , and tell no one anything about me .
And you , dear cousin , say nothing to the neighbours , and if they should put questions , you can make answer that I have not yet been found . '
` So I will , ' replied he .
Then he and her mother took her upstairs and hid her in a cupboard , where she stayed for a whole month , only going out to walk when all the world was asleep .
Meanwhile Dschemil had returned to his own home , where his father and mother , his brothers and neighbours , greeted him joyfully .
` When did you come back ? '
said they , ` and have you found Dschemila ? '
` No , I searched the whole world after her , and could hear nothing of her . '
` Did you part company with the man who started with you ? '
` Yes ; after three days he got so weak and useless he could not go on .
It must be a month by now since he reached home again .
I went on and visited every castle , and looked in every house .
But there were no signs of her ; and so I gave it up . '
And they answered him : ` We told you before that it was no good .
An ogre or an ogress must have snapped her up , and how can you expect to find her ? ' '
I loved her too much to be still , ' he said .
But his friends did not understand , and soon they spoke to him again about it .
` We will seek for a wife for you .
There are plenty of girls prettier than Dschemila . ' '
I dare say ; but I do n't want them . '
` But what will you do with all the cushions and carpets , and beautiful things you bought for your house ? '
` They can stay in the chests . '
` But the moths will eat them !
For a few weeks , it is of no consequence , but after a year or two they will be quite useless . '
` And if they have to lie there ten years I will have Dschemila , and her only , for my wife .
For a month , or even two months , I will rest here quietly .
Then I will go and seek her afresh . '
` Oh , you are quite mad !
Is she the only maiden in the world ?
There are plenty of others better worth having than she is . '
` If there are I have not seen them !
And why do you make all this fuss ?
Every man knows his own business best . '
` Why , it is you who are making all the fuss yourself -- ' But Dschemil turned and went into the house , for he did not want to quarrel .
Three months later a Jew , who was travelling across the desert , came to the castle , and laid himself down under the wall to rest .
In the evening the ogre saw him there and said to him , ` Jew , what are you doing here ?
Have you anything to sell ? ' '
I have only some clothes , ' answered the Jew , who was in mortal terror of the ogre .
` Oh , do n't be afraid of me , ' said the ogre , laughing . '
I shall not eat you .
Indeed , I mean to go a bit of the way with you myself . ' '
I am ready , gracious sir , ' replied the Jew , rising to his feet .
` Well , go straight on till you reach a town , and in that town you will find a maiden called Dschemila and a young man called Dschemil .
Take this mirror and this comb with you , and say to Dschemila , `` Your father , the ogre , greets you , and begs you to look at your face in this mirror , and it will appear as it was before , and to comb your hair with this comb , and it will be as formerly . ''
If you do not carry out my orders , I will eat you the next time we meet . '
` Oh , I will obey you punctually , ' cried the Jew .
After thirty days the Jew entered the gate of the town , and sat down in the first street he came to , hungry , thirsty , and very tired .
Quite by chance , Dschemil happened to pass by , and seeing a man sitting there , full in the glare of the sun , he stopped , and said , ` Get up at once , Jew ; you will have a sunstroke if you sit in such a place . '
` Ah , good sir , ' replied the Jew , ` for a whole month I have been travelling , and I am too tired to move . '
` Which way did you come ? '
asked Dschemil .
` From out there , ' answered the Jew , pointing behind him .
` And you have been travelling for a month , you say ?
Well , did you see anything remarkable ? '
` Yes , good sir ; I saw a castle , and lay down to rest under its shadow .
And an ogre woke me , and told me to come to this town , where I should find a young man called Dschemil , and a girl called Dschemila . '
` My name is Dschemil .
What does the ogre want with me ? '
` He gave me some presents for Dschemila .
How can I see her ? '
` Come with me , and you shall give them into her own hands . '
So the two went together to the house of Dschemil 's uncle , and Dschemil led the Jew into his aunt 's room .
` Aunt ! '
he cried , ` this Jew who is with me has come from the ogre , and has brought with him , as presents , a mirror and a comb which the ogre has sent her . '
` But it may be only some wicked trick on the part of the ogre , ' said she .
` Oh , I do n't think so , ' answered the young man , ` give her the things . '
Then the maiden was called , and she came out of her hiding place , and went up to the Jew , saying , ` Where have you come from , Jew ? '
` From your father the ogre . '
` And what errand did he send you on ? '
` He told me I was to give you this mirror and this comb , and to say `` Look in this mirror , and comb your hair with this comb , and both will become as they were formerly . '' '
And Dschemila took the mirror and looked into it , and combed her hair with the comb , and she had no longer an ass 's head , but the face of a beautiful maiden .
-LSB- Illustration : DSCHEMILA GETS RID OF THE ASS 'S HEAD -RSB- Great was the joy of both mother and cousin at this wonderful sight , and the news that Dschemila had returned soon spread , and the neighbours came flocking in with greetings .
` When did you come back ? '
` My cousin brought me . '
` Why , he told us he could not find you ! '
` Oh , I did that on purpose , ' answered Dschemil . '
I did not want everyone to know . '
Then he turned to his father and his mother , his brothers and his sisters-in-law , and said , ` We must set to work at once , for the wedding will be to-day . '
A beautiful litter was prepared to carry the bride to her new home , but she shrank back , saying , ' I am afraid , lest the ogre should carry me off again . '
` How can the ogre get at you when we are all here ? '
they said .
` There are two thousand of us all told , and every man has his sword . '
` He will manage it somehow , ' answered Dschemila , ` he is a powerful king ! '
` She is right , ' said an old man .
` Take away the litter , and let her go on foot if she is afraid . '
` But it is absurd ! '
exclaimed the rest ; ` how can the ogre get hold of her ? ' '
I will not go , ' said Dschemila again .
` You do not know that monster ; I do . '
And while they were disputing the bridegroom arrived .
` Let her alone .
She shall stay in her father 's house .
After all , I can live here , and the wedding feast shall be made ready . '
And so they were married at last , and died without having had a single quarrel .
-LSB- Mrchen und Gedichte aus der Stadt Tripolis . -RSB-
JANNI AND THE DRAKEN Once there was a man who shunned the world , and lived in the wilderness .
He owned nothing but a flock of sheep , whose milk and wool he sold , and so procured himself bread to eat ; he also carried wooden spoons , and sold them .
He had a wife and one little girl , and after a long time his wife had another child .
The evening it was born the man went to the nearest village to fetch a nurse , and on the way he met a monk who begged him for a night 's lodging .
This the man willingly granted , and took him home with him .
There being no one far nor near to baptize the child , the man asked the monk to do him this service , and the child was given the name of Janni .
In the course of time Janni 's parents died , and he and his sister were left alone in the world ; soon affairs went badly with them , so they determined to wander away to seek their fortune .
In packing up , the sister found a knife which the monk had left for his godson , and this she gave to her brother .
Then they went on their way , taking with them the three sheep which were all that remained of their flocks .
After wandering for three days they met a man with three dogs who proposed that they should exchange animals , he taking the sheep , and they the dogs .
The brother and sister were quite pleased at this arrangement , and after the exchange was made they separated , and went their different ways .
Janni and his sister in course of time came to a great castle , in which dwelt forty Draken , who , when they heard that Janni had come , fled forty fathoms underground .
So Janni found the castle deserted , and abode there with his sister , and every day went out to hunt with the weapons the Draken had left in the castle .
One day , when he was away hunting , one of the Draken came up to get provisions , not knowing that there was anyone in the castle .
When he saw Janni 's sister he was terrified , but she told him not to be afraid , and by-and-by they fell in love with each other , for every time that Janni went to hunt the sister called the Drakos up .
Thus they went on making love to each other till at length , unknown to Janni , they got married .
Then , when it was too late , the sister repented , and was afraid of Janni 's wrath when he found it out .
One day the Drakos came to her , and said : ` You must pretend to be ill , and when Janni asks what ails you , and what you want , you must answer : `` Cherries , '' and when he inquires where these are to be found , you must say : `` There are some in a garden a day 's journey from here . ''
Then your brother will go there , and will never come back , for there dwell three of my brothers who will look after him well . '
Then the sister did as the Drakos advised , and next day Janni set out to fetch the cherries , taking his three dogs with him .
When he came to the garden where the cherries grew he jumped off his horse , drank some water from the spring , which rose there , and fell directly into a deep sleep .
The Draken came round about to eat him , but the dogs flung themselves on them and tore them in pieces , and scratched a grave in the ground with their paws , and buried the Draken so that Janni might not see their dead bodies .
When Janni awoke , and saw his dogs all covered with blood , he believed that they had caught , somewhere , a wild beast , and was angry because they had left none of it for him .
But he plucked the cherries , and took them back to his sister .
When the Drakos heard that Janni had come back , he fled for fear forty fathoms underground .
And the sister ate the cherries and declared herself well again .
The next day , when Janni was gone to hunt , the Drakos came out , and advised the sister that she should pretend to be ill again , and when her brother asked her what she would like , she should answer ` Quinces , ' and when he inquired where these were to be found , she should say : ` In a garden distant about two days ' journey . '
Then would Janni certainly be destroyed , for there dwelt six brothers of the Drakos , each of whom had two heads .
The sister did as she was advised , and next day Janni again set off , taking his three dogs with him .
When he came to the garden he dismounted , sat down to rest a little , and fell fast asleep .
First there came three Draken round about to eat him , and when these three had been worried by the dogs , there came three others who were worried in like manner .
Then the dogs again dug a grave and buried the dead Draken , that their master might not see them .
When Janni awoke and beheld the dogs all covered with blood , he thought , as before , that they had killed a wild beast , and was again angry with them for leaving him nothing .
But he took the quinces and brought them back to his sister , who , when she had eaten them , declared herself better .
The Drakos , when he heard that Janni had come back , fled for fear forty fathoms deeper underground .
Next day , when Janni was hunting , the Drakos went to the sister and advised that she should again pretend to be ill , and should beg for some pears , which grew in a garden three days ' journey from the castle .
From this quest Janni would certainly never return , for there dwelt nine brothers of the Drakos , each of whom had three heads .
The sister did as she was told , and next day Janni , taking his three dogs with him , went to get the pears .
When he came to the garden he laid himself down to rest , and soon fell asleep .
Then first came three Draken to eat him , and when the dogs had worried these , six others came and fought the dogs a long time .
The noise of this combat awoke Janni , and he slew the Draken , and knew at last why the dogs were covered with blood .
-LSB- Illustration : JANNI AND HIS DOGS FIGHT THE THREE-HEADED DRAKEN -RSB- After that he freed all whom the Draken held prisoners , amongst others , a king 's daughter .
Out of gratitude she would have taken him for her husband ; but he put her off , saying : ` For the kindness that I have been able to do to you , you shall receive in this castle all the blind and lame who pass this way . '
The princess promised him to do so , and on his departure gave him a ring .
So Janni plucked the pears and took them to his sister , who , when she had eaten them , declared she felt better .
When , however , the Drakos heard that Janni had come back yet a third time safe and sound , he fled for fright forty fathoms deeper underground ; and , next day , when Janni was away hunting , he crept out and said to the sister : ` Now are we indeed both lost , unless you find out from him wherein his strength lies , and then between us we will contrive to do away with him . '
When , therefore , Janni had come back from hunting , and sat at evening with his sister by the fire , she begged him to tell her wherein lay his strength , and he answered : ` It lies in my two fingers ; if these are bound together then all my strength disappears . '
` That I will not believe , ' said the sister , ` unless I see it for myself . '
Then he let her tie his fingers together with a thread , and immediately he became powerless .
Then the sister called up the Drakos , who , when he had come forth , tore out Janni 's eyes , gave them to his dogs to eat , and threw him into a dry well .
Now it happened that some travellers , going to draw water from this well , heard Janni groaning at the bottom .
They came near , and asked him where he was , and he begged them to draw him up from the well , for he was a poor unfortunate man .
The travellers let a rope down and drew him up to daylight .
It was not till then that he first became aware that he was blind , and he begged the travellers to lead him to the country of the king whose daughter he had freed , and they would be well repaid for their trouble .
When they had brought him there he sent to beg the princess to come to him ; but she did not recognise him till he had shown her the ring she had given him .
Then she remembered him , and took him with her into the castle .
When she learnt what had befallen him she called together all the sorceresses in the country in order that they should tell her where the eyes were .
At last she found one who declared that she knew where they were , and that she could restore them .
This sorceress then went straight to the castle where dwelt the sister and the Drakos , and gave something to the dogs to eat which caused the eyes to reappear .
She took them with her and put them back in Janni 's head , so that he saw as well as before .
Then he returned to the castle of the Drakos , whom he slew as well as his sister ; and , taking his dogs with him , went back to the princess and they were immediately married .
THE PARTNERSHIP OF THE THIEF AND THE LIAR .
There was once upon a time a thief , who , being out of a job , was wandering by himself up and down the seashore .
As he walked he passed a man who was standing still , looking at the waves . '
I wonder , ' said the thief , addressing the stranger , ` if you have ever seen a stone swimming ? '
` Most certainly I have , ' replied the other man , ` and , what is more , I saw the same stone jump out of the water and fly through the air . '
` This is capital , ' replied the thief .
` You and I must go into partnership .
We shall certainly make our fortunes .
Let us start together for the palace of the king of the neighbouring country .
When we get there , I will go into his presence alone , and will tell him the most startling thing I can invent .
Then you must follow and back up my lie . '
Having agreed to do this , they set out on their travels .
After several days ' journeying , they reached the town where the king 's palace was , and here they parted for a few hours , while the thief sought an interview with the king , and begged his majesty to give him a glass of beer .
` That is impossible , ' said the king , ` as this year there has been a failure of all the crops , and of the hops and the vines ; so we have neither wine nor beer in the whole kingdom . '
` How extraordinary ! '
answered the thief . '
I have just come from a country where the crops were so fine that I saw twelve barrels of beer made out of one branch of hops . ' '
I bet you three hundred florins that is not true , ' answered the king .
` And I bet you three hundred florins it is true , ' replied the thief .
Then each staked his three hundred florins , and the king said he would decide the question by sending a servant into that country to see if it was true .
So the servant set out on horseback , and on the way he met a man , and he asked him whence he came .
And the man told him that he came from the self-same country to which the servant was at that moment bound .
` If that is the case , ' said the servant , ` you can tell me how high the hops grow in your country , and how many barrels of beer can be brewed from one branch ? ' '
I ca n't tell you that , ' answered the man , ` but I happened to be present when the hops were being gathered in , and I saw that it took three men with axes three days to cut down one branch . '
Then the servant thought that he might save himself a long journey ; so he gave the man ten florins , and told him he must repeat to the king what he had just told him .
And when they got back to the palace , they came together into the king 's presence .
And the king asked him : ` Well , is it true about the hops ? '
` Yes , sire , it is , ' answered the servant ; ` and here is a man I have brought with me from the country to confirm the tale . '
So the king paid the thief the three hundred florins ; and the partners once more set out together in search of adventures .
As they journeyed , the thief said to his comrade : ' I will now go to another king , and will tell him something still more startling ; and you must follow and back up my lie , and we shall get some money out of him ; just see if we do n't . '
When they reached the next kingdom , the thief presented himself to the king , and requested him to give him a cauliflower .
And the king answered : ` Owing to a blight among the vegetables we have no cauliflower . '
` That is strange , ' answered the thief . '
I have just come from a country where it grows so well that one head of cauliflower filled twelve water-tubs . ' '
I do n't believe it , ' answered the king . '
I bet you six hundred florins it is true , ' replied the thief .
` And I bet you six hundred florins it is not true , ' answered the king .
And he sent for a servant , and ordered him to start at once for the country whence the thief had come , to find out if his story of the cauliflower was true .
On his journey the servant met with a man .
Stopping his horse he asked him where he came from , and the man replied that he came from the country to which the other was travelling .
` If that is the case , ' said the servant , ` you can tell me to what size cauliflower grows in your country ?
Is it so large that one head fills twelve water-tubs ? ' '
I have not seen that , ' answered the man .
` But I saw twelve waggons , drawn by twelve horses , carrying one head of cauliflower to the market . '
And the servant answered : ` Here are ten florins for you , my man , for you have saved me a long journey .
Come with me now , and tell the king what you have just told me . '
` All right , ' said the man , and they went together to the palace ; and when the king asked the servant if he had found out the truth about the cauliflower , the servant replied : ` Sire , all that you heard was perfectly true ; here is a man from the country who will tell you so . '
So the king had to pay the thief the six hundred florins .
And the two partners set out once more on their travels , with their nine hundred florins .
When they reached the country of the neighbouring king , the thief entered the royal presence , and began conversation by asking if his majesty knew that in an adjacent kingdom there was a town with a church steeple on which a bird had alighted , and that the steeple was so high , and the bird 's beak so long , that it had pecked the stars till some of them fell out of the sky . '
I do n't believe it , ' said the king .
` Nevertheless I am prepared to bet twelve hundred florins that it is true , ' answered the thief .
` And I bet twelve hundred florins that it is a lie , ' replied the king .
And he straightway sent a servant into the neighbouring country to find out the truth .
As he rode , the servant met a man coming in the opposite direction .
So he hailed him and asked him where he came from .
And the man replied that he came out of the very town to which the man was bound .
Then the servant asked him if the story they had heard about the bird with the long beak was true . '
I do n't know about that , ' answered the man , ` as I have never seen the bird ; but I once saw twelve men shoving all their might and main with brooms to push a monster egg into a cellar . '
-LSB- Illustration : `` I once saw '' 12 MEN SHOVING ALL THEIR MIGHT AND MAIN WITH BROOMS TO PUSH A MONSTER EGG INTO A CELLAR -RSB- ` That is capital , ' answered the servant , presenting the man with ten florins .
` Come and tell your tale to the king , and you will save me a long journey . '
So , when the story was repeated to the king , there was nothing for him to do but to pay the thief the twelve hundred florins .
Then the two partners set out again with their ill-gotten gains , which they proceeded to divide into two equal shares ; but the thief kept back three of the florins that belonged to the liar 's half of the booty .
Shortly afterwards they each married , and settled down in homes of their own with their wives .
One day the liar discovered that he had been done out of three florins by his partner , so he went to his house and demanded them from him .
` Come next Saturday , and I will give them to you , ' answered the thief .
But as he had no intention of giving the liar the money , when Saturday morning came he stretched himself out stiff and stark upon the bed , and told his wife she was to say he was dead .
So the wife rubbed her eyes with an onion , and when the liar appeared at the door , she met him in tears , and told him that as her husband was dead he could not be paid the three florins .
But the liar , who knew his partner 's tricks , instantly suspected the truth , and said : ` As he has not paid me , I will pay him out with three good lashes of my riding whip . '
At these words the thief sprang to his feet , and , appearing at the door , promised his partner that if he would return the following Saturday he would pay him .
So the liar went away satisfied with this promise .
But when Saturday morning came the thief got up early and hid himself under a truss of hay in the hay-loft .
When the liar appeared to demand his three florins , the wife met him with tears in her eyes , and told him that her husband was dead .
` Where have you buried him ? '
asked the liar .
` In the hay-loft , ' answered the wife .
` Then I will go there , and take away some hay in payment of his debt , ' said the liar .
And proceeding to the hay-loft , he began to toss about the hay with a pitch-fork , prodding it into the trusses of hay , till , in terror of his life , the thief crept out and promised his partner to pay him the three florins on the following Saturday .
When the day came he got up at sunrise , and going down into the crypt of a neighbouring chapel , stretched himself out quite still and stiff in an old stone coffin .
But the liar , who was quite as clever as his partner , very soon bethought him of the crypt , and set out for the chapel , confident that he would shortly discover the hiding-place of his friend .
He had just entered the crypt , and his eyes were not yet accustomed to the darkness , when he heard the sound of whispering at the grated windows .
Listening intently , he overheard the plotting of a band of robbers , who had brought their treasure to the crypt , meaning to hide it there , while they set out on fresh adventures .
All the time they were speaking they were removing the bars from the window , and in another minute they would all have entered the crypt , and discovered the liar .
Quick as thought he wound his mantle round him and placed himself , standing stiff and erect , in a niche in the wall , so that in the dim light he looked just like an old stone statue .
As soon as the robbers entered the crypt , they set about the work of dividing their treasure .
Now , there were twelve robbers , but by mistake the chief of the band divided the gold into thirteen heaps .
When he saw his mistake he said they had not time to count it all over again , but that the thirteenth heap should belong to whoever among them could strike off the head of the old stone statue in the niche with one stroke .
With these words he took up an axe , and approached the niche where the liar was standing .
But , just as he had waved the axe over his head ready to strike , a voice was heard from the stone coffin saying , in sepulchral tones : ` Clear out of this , or the dead will arise from their coffins , and the statues will descend from the walls , and you will be driven out more dead than alive . '
And with a bound the thief jumped out of his coffin and the liar from his niche , and the robbers were so terrified that they ran helter-skelter out of the crypt , leaving all their gold behind them , and vowing that they would never put foot inside the haunted place again .
So the partners divided the gold between them , and carried it to their homes ; and history tells us no more about them .
FORTUNATUS AND HIS PURSE Once upon a time there lived in the city of Famagosta , in the island of Cyprus , a rich man called Theodorus .
He ought to have been the happiest person in the whole world , as he had all he could wish for , and a wife and little son whom he loved dearly ; but unluckily , after a short time he always grew tired of everything , and had to seek new pleasures .
When people are made like this the end is generally the same , and before Fortunatus -LRB- for that was the boy 's name -RRB- was ten years old , his father had spent all his money and had not a farthing left .
But though Theodorus had been so foolish he was not quite without sense , and set about getting work at once .
His wife , too , instead of reproaching him sent away the servants and sold their fine horses , and did all the work of the house herself , even washing the clothes of her husband and child .
Thus time passed till Fortunatus was sixteen .
One day when they were sitting at supper , the boy said to Theodorus , ` Father , why do you look so sad ?
Tell me what is wrong , and perhaps I can help you . '
` Ah , my son , I have reason enough to be sad ; but for me you would now have been enjoying every kind of pleasure , instead of being buried in this tiny house . '
` Oh , do not let that trouble you , ' replied Fortunatus , ` it is time I made some money for myself .
To be sure I have never been taught any trade .
Still there must be something I can do .
I will go and walk on the seashore and think about it . '
Very soon -- sooner than he expected -- a chance came , and Fortunatus , like a wise boy , seized on it at once .
The post offered him was that of page to the Earl of Flanders , and as the Earl 's daughter was just going to be married , splendid festivities were held in her honour , and at some of the tilting matches Fortunatus was lucky enough to win the prize .
These prizes , together with presents from the lords and ladies of the court , who liked him for his pleasant ways , made Fortunatus feel quite a rich man .
But though his head was not turned by the notice taken of him , it excited the envy of some of the other pages about the Court , and one of them , called Robert , invented a plot to move Fortunatus out of his way .
So he told the young man that the Earl had taken a dislike to him and meant to kill him ; Fortunatus believed the story , and packing up his fine clothes and money , slipped away before dawn .
He went to a great many big towns and lived well , and as he was generous and not wiser than most youths of his age , he very soon found himself penniless .
Like his father , he then began to think of work , and tramped half over Brittany in search of it .
Nobody seemed to want him , and he wandered about from one place to another , till he found himself in a dense wood , without any paths , and not much light .
Here he spent two whole days , with nothing to eat and very little water to drink , going first in one direction and then in another , but never being able to find his way out .
During the first night he slept soundly , and was too tired to fear either man or beast , but when darkness came on for the second time , and growls were heard in the distance , he grew frightened and looked about for a high tree out of reach of his enemies .
Hardly had he settled himself comfortably in one of the forked branches , when a lion walked up to a spring that burst from a rock close to the tree , and crouching down drank greedily .
This was bad enough , but after all , lions do not climb trees , and as long as Fortunatus stayed up on his perch , he was quite safe .
But no sooner was the lion out of sight , than his place was taken by a bear , and bears , as Fortunatus knew very well , are tree-climbers .
His heart beat fast , and not without reason , for as the bear turned away he looked up and saw Fortunatus !
Now in those days every young man carried a sword slung to his belt , and it was a fashion that came in very handily for Fortunatus .
He drew his sword , and when the bear got within a yard of him he made a fierce lunge forward .
The bear , wild with pain , tried to spring , but the bough he was standing on broke with his weight , and he fell heavily to the ground .
Then Fortunatus descended from his tree -LRB- first taking good care to see no other wild animals were in sight -RRB- and killed him with a single blow .
He was just thinking he would light a fire and make a hearty dinner off bear 's flesh , which is not at all bad eating , when he beheld a beautiful lady standing by his side leaning on a wheel , and her eyes hidden by a bandage . '
I am Dame Fortune , ' she said , ` and I have a gift for you .
Shall it be wisdom , strength , long life , riches , health , or beauty ?
Think well , and tell me what you will have . '
But Fortunatus , who had proved the truth of the proverb that ` It 's ill thinking on an empty stomach , ' answered quickly , ` Good lady , let me have riches in such plenty that I may never again be as hungry as I am now . '
And the lady held out a purse and told him he had only to put his hand into it , and he and his children would always find ten pieces of gold .
But when they were dead it would be a magic purse no longer .
-LSB- Illustration : THE GIFT-OF-FORTUNE -RSB- At this news Fortunatus was beside himself with joy , and could hardly find words to thank the lady .
But she told him that the best thing he could do was to find his way out of the wood , and before bidding him farewell pointed out which path he should take .
He walked along it as fast as his weakness would let him , until a welcome light at a little distance showed him that a house was near .
It turned out to be an inn , but before entering Fortunatus thought he had better make sure of the truth of what the lady had told him , and took out the purse and looked inside .
Sure enough there were the ten pieces of gold , shining brightly .
Then Fortunatus walked boldly up to the inn , and ordered them to get ready a good supper at once , as he was very hungry , and to bring him the best wine in the house .
And he seemed to care so little what he spent that everybody thought he was a great lord , and vied with each other who should run quickest when he called .
After a night passed in a soft bed , Fortunatus felt so much better that he asked the landlord if he could find him some men-servants , and tell him where any good horses were to be got .
The next thing was to provide himself with smart clothes , and then to take a big house where he could give great feasts to the nobles and beautiful ladies who lived in palaces round about .
In this manner a whole year soon slipped away , and Fortunatus was so busy amusing himself that he never once remembered his parents whom he had left behind in Cyprus .
But though he was thoughtless , he was not bad-hearted .
As soon as their existence crossed his mind , he set about making preparations to visit them , and as he was not fond of being alone he looked round for some one older and wiser than himself to travel with him .
It was not long before he had the good luck to come across an old man who had left his wife and children in a far country many years before , when he went out into the world to seek the fortune which he never found .
He agreed to accompany Fortunatus back to Cyprus , but only on condition he should first be allowed to return for a few weeks to his own home before venturing to set sail for an island so strange and distant .
Fortunatus agreed to his proposal , and as he was always fond of anything new , said that he would go with him .
The journey was long , and they had to cross many large rivers , and climb over high mountains , and find their way through thick woods , before they reached at length the old man 's castle .
His wife and children had almost given up hopes of seeing him again , and crowded eagerly round him .
Indeed , it did not take Fortunatus five minutes to fall in love with the youngest daughter , the most beautiful creature in the whole world , whose name was Cassandra .
` Give her to me for my wife , ' he said to the old man , ` and let us all go together to Famagosta . '
So a ship was bought big enough to hold Fortunatus , the old man and his wife , and their ten children -- five of them sons and five daughters .
And the day before they sailed the wedding was celebrated with magnificent rejoicings , and everybody thought that Fortunatus must certainly be a prince in disguise .
But when they reached Cyprus , he learned to his sorrow that both his father and mother were dead , and for some time he shut himself up in his house and would see nobody , full of shame at having forgotten them all these years .
Then he begged that the old man and his wife would remain with him , and take the place of his parents .
For twelve years Fortunatus and Cassandra and their two little boys lived happily in Famagosta .
They had a beautiful house and everything they could possibly want , and when Cassandra 's sisters married the purse provided them each with a fortune .
But at last Fortunatus grew tired of staying at home , and thought he should like to go out and see the world again .
Cassandra shed many tears at first when he told her of his wishes , and he had a great deal of trouble to persuade her to give her consent .
But on his promising to return at the end of two years she agreed to let him go .
Before he went away he showed her three chests of gold , which stood in a room with an iron door , and walls twelve feet thick .
` If anything should happen to me , ' he said , ` and I should never come back , keep one of the chests for yourself , and give the others to our two sons . '
Then he embraced them all and took ship for Alexandria .
The wind was fair and in a few days they entered the harbour , where Fortunatus was informed by a man whom he met on landing , that if he wished to be well received in the town , he must begin by making a handsome present to the Sultan .
` That is easily done , ' said Fortunatus , and went into a goldsmith 's shop , where he bought a large gold cup , which cost five thousand pounds .
This gift so pleased the Sultan that he ordered a hundred casks of spices to be given to Fortunatus ; Fortunatus put them on board his ship , and commanded the captain to return to Cyprus and deliver them to his wife , Cassandra .
He next obtained an audience of the Sultan , and begged permission to travel through the country , which the Sultan readily gave him , adding some letters to the rulers of other lands which Fortunatus might wish to visit .
Filled with delight at feeling himself free to roam through the world once more , Fortunatus set out on his journey without losing a day .
From court to court he went , astonishing everyone by the magnificence of his dress and the splendour of his presents .
At length he grew as tired of wandering as he had been of staying at home , and returned to Alexandria , where he found the same ship that had brought him from Cyprus lying in the harbour .
Of course the first thing he did was to pay his respects to the Sultan , who was eager to hear about his adventures .
When Fortunatus had told them all , the Sultan observed : ` Well , you have seen many wonderful things , but I have something to show you more wonderful still ; ' and he led him into a room where precious stones lay heaped against the walls .
Fortunatus ' eyes were quite dazzled , but the Sultan went on without pausing and opened a door at the farther end .
As far as Fortunatus could see , the cupboard was quite bare , except for a little red cap , such as soldiers wear in Turkey .
` Look at this , ' said the Sultan .
` But there is nothing very valuable about it , ' answered Fortunatus .
` I 've seen a dozen better caps than that , this very day . '
` Ah , ' said the Sultan , ` you do not know what you are talking about .
Whoever puts this cap on his head and wishes himself in any place , will find himself there in a moment . '
` But who made it ? '
asked Fortunatus .
` That I can not tell you , ' replied the Sultan .
` Is it very heavy to wear ? '
asked Fortunatus .
` No , quite light , ' replied the Sultan , ` just feel it . '
Fortunatus took the cap and put it on his head , and then , without thinking , wished himself back in the ship that was starting for Famagosta .
In a second he was standing at the prow , while the anchor was being weighed , and while the Sultan was repenting of his folly in allowing Fortunatus to try on the cap , the vessel was making fast for Cyprus .
When it arrived , Fortunatus found his wife and children well , but the two old people were dead and buried .
His sons had grown tall and strong , but unlike their father had no wish to see the world , and found their chief pleasure in hunting and tilting .
In the main , Fortunatus was content to stay quietly at home , and if a restless fit did seize upon him , he was able to go away for a few hours without being missed , thanks to the cap , which he never sent back to the Sultan .
By-and-by he grew old , and feeling that he had not many days to live , he sent for his two sons , and showing them the purse and cap , he said to them : ` Never part with these precious possessions .
They are worth more than all the gold and lands I leave behind me .
But never tell their secret , even to your wife or dearest friend .
That purse has served me well for forty years , and no one knows whence I got my riches . '
Then he died and was buried by his wife Cassandra , and he was mourned in Famagosta for many years .
THE GOAT-FACED GIRL There was once upon a time a peasant called Masaniello who had twelve daughters .
They were exactly like the steps of a staircase , for there was just a year between each sister .
It was all the poor man could do to bring up such a large family , and in order to provide food for them he used to dig in the fields all day long .
In spite of his hard work he only just succeeded in keeping the wolf from the door , and the poor little girls often went hungry to bed .
One day , when Masaniello was working at the foot of a high mountain , he came upon the mouth of a cave which was so dark and gloomy that even the sun seemed afraid to enter it .
Suddenly a huge green lizard appeared from the inside and stood before Masaniello , who nearly went out of his mind with terror , for the beast was as big as a crocodile and quite as fierce looking .
But the lizard sat down beside him in the most friendly manner , and said : ` Do n't be afraid , my good man , I am not going to hurt you ; on the contrary , I am most anxious to help you . '
When the peasant heard these words he knelt before the lizard and said : ` Dear lady , for I know not what to call you , I am in your power ; but I beg of you to be merciful , for I have twelve wretched little daughters at home who are dependent on me . '
` That 's the very reason why I have come to you , ' replied the lizard .
` Bring me your youngest daughter to-morrow morning .
I promise to bring her up as if she were my own child , and to look upon her as the apple of my eye . '
When Masaniello heard her words he was very unhappy , because he felt sure , from the lizard 's wanting one of his daughters , the youngest and tenderest too , that the poor little girl would only serve as dessert for the terrible creature 's supper .
At the same time he said to himself , ` If I refuse her request , she will certainly eat me up on the spot .
If I give her what she asks she does indeed take part of myself , but if I refuse she will take the whole of me .
What am I to do , and how in the world am I to get out of the difficulty ? '
As he kept muttering to himself the lizard said , ` Make up your mind to do as I tell you at once .
I desire to have your youngest daughter , and if you wo n't comply with my wish , I can only say it will be the worse for you . '
Seeing that there was nothing else to be done , Masaniello set off for his home , and arrived there looking so white and wretched that his wife asked him at once : ` What has happened to you , my dear husband ?
Have you quarrelled with anyone , or has the poor donkey fallen down ? '
` Neither the one nor the other , ' answered her husband , ` but something far worse than either .
A terrible lizard has nearly frightened me out of my senses , for she threatened that if I did not give her our youngest daughter , she would make me repent it .
My head is going round like a mill-wheel , and I do n't know what to do .
I am indeed between the Devil and the Deep Sea .
You know how dearly I love Renzolla , and yet , if I fail to bring her to the lizard to-morrow morning , I must say farewell to life .
Do advise me what to do . '
When his wife had heard all he had to say , she said to him : ` How do you know , my dear husband , that the lizard is really our enemy ?
May she not be a friend in disguise ?
And your meeting with her may be the beginning of better things and the end of all our misery .
Therefore go and take the child to her , for my heart tells me that you will never repent doing so . '
Masaniello was much comforted by her words , and next morning as soon as it was light he took his little daughter by the hand and led her to the cave .
The lizard , who was awaiting the peasant 's arrival , came forward to meet him , and taking the girl by the hand , she gave the father a sack full of gold , and said : ` Go and marry your other daughters , and give them dowries with this gold , and be of good cheer , for Renzolla will have both father and mother in me ; it is a great piece of luck for her that she has fallen into my hands . '
-LSB- Illustration : The Lizard takes charge of Renzolla -RSB- Masaniello , quite overcome with gratitude , thanked the lizard , and returned home to his wife .
As soon as it was known how rich the peasant had become , suitors for the hands of his daughters were not wanting , and very soon he married them all off ; and even then there was enough gold left to keep himself and his wife in comfort and plenty all their days .
As soon as the lizard was left alone with Renzolla , she changed the cave into a beautiful palace , and led the girl inside .
Here she brought her up like a little princess , and the child wanted for nothing .
She gave her sumptuous food to eat , beautiful clothes to wear , and a thousand servants to wait on her .
Now , it happened , one day , that the king of the country was hunting in a wood close to the palace , and was overtaken by the dark .
Seeing a light shining in the palace he sent one of his servants to ask if he could get a night 's lodging there .
When the page knocked at the door the lizard changed herself into a beautiful woman , and opened it herself .
When she heard the king 's request she sent him a message to say that she would be delighted to see him , and give him all he wanted .
The king , on hearing this kind invitation , instantly betook himself to the palace , where he was received in the most hospitable manner .
A hundred pages with torches came to meet him , a hundred more waited on him at table , and another hundred waved big fans in the air to keep the flies from him .
Renzolla herself poured out the wine for him , and , so gracefully did she do it , that his Majesty could not take his eyes off her .
When the meal was finished and the table cleared , the king retired to sleep , and Renzolla drew the shoes from his feet , at the same time drawing his heart from his breast .
So desperately had he fallen in love with her , that he called the fairy to him , and asked her for Renzolla 's hand in marriage .
As the kind fairy had only the girl 's welfare at heart , she willingly gave her consent , and not her consent only , but a wedding portion of seven thousand golden guineas .
The king , full of delight over his good fortune , prepared to take his departure , accompanied by Renzolla , who never so much as thanked the fairy for all she had done for her .
When the fairy saw such a base want of gratitude she determined to punish the girl , and , cursing her , she turned her face into a goat 's head .
In a moment Renzolla 's pretty mouth stretched out into a snout , with a beard a yard long at the end of it , her cheeks sank in , and her shining plaits of hair changed into two sharp horns .
When the king turned round and saw her he thought he must have taken leave of his senses .
He burst into tears , and cried out : ` Where is the hair that bound me so tightly , where are the eyes that pierced through my heart , and where are the lips I kissed ?
Am I to be tied to a goat all my life ?
No , no !
nothing will induce me to become the laughing-stock of my subjects for the sake of a goat-faced girl ! '
When they reached his own country he shut Renzolla up in a little turret chamber of his palace , with a waiting-maid , and gave each of them ten bundles of flax to spin , telling them that their task must be finished by the end of the week .
The maid , obedient to the king 's commands , set at once to work and combed out the flax , wound it round the spindle , and sat spinning at her wheel so diligently that her work was quite done by Saturday evening .
But Renzolla , who had been spoilt and petted in the fairy 's house , and was quite unaware of the change that had taken place in her appearance , threw the flax out of the window and said : ` What is the king thinking of that he should give me this work to do ?
If he wants shirts he can buy them .
It is n't even as if he had picked me out of the gutter , for he ought to remember that I brought him seven thousand golden guineas as my wedding portion , and that I am his wife and not his slave .
He must be mad to treat me like this . '
All the same , when Saturday evening came , and she saw that the waiting-maid had finished her task , she took fright lest she should be punished for her idleness .
So she hurried off to the palace of the fairy , and confided all her woes to her .
The fairy embraced her tenderly , and gave her a sack full of spun flax , in order that she might show it to the king , and let him see what a good worker she was .
Renzolla took the sack without one word of thanks , and returned to the palace , leaving the kind fairy very indignant over her want of gratitude .
When the king saw the flax all spun , he gave Renzolla and the waiting-maid each a little dog , and told them to look after the animals and train them carefully .
The waiting-maid brought hers up with the greatest possible care , and treated it almost as if it were her son .
But Renzolla said : ' I do n't know what to think .
Have I come among a lot of lunatics ?
Does the king imagine that I am going to comb and feed a dog with my own hands ? '
With these words she opened the window and threw the poor little beast out , and he fell on the ground as dead as a stone .
When a few months had passed the king sent a message to say he would like to see how the dogs were getting on .
Renzolla , who felt very uncomfortable in her mind at this request , hurried off once more to the fairy .
This time she found an old man at the door of the fairy 's palace , who said to her : ` Who are you , and what do you want ? '
When Renzolla heard his question she answered angrily : ` Do n't you know me , old Goat-beard ?
And how dare you address me in such a way ? '
` The pot ca n't call the kettle black , ' answered the old man , ` for it is not I , but you who have a goat 's head .
Just wait a moment , you ungrateful wretch , and I will show you to what a pass your want of gratitude has brought you . '
With these words he hurried away , and returned with a mirror , which he held up before Renzolla .
At the sight of her ugly , hairy face , the girl nearly fainted with horror , and she broke into loud sobs at seeing her countenance so changed .
-LSB- Illustration : RENZOLLA SEES HER FACE IN THE MIRROR -RSB- Then the old man said : ` You must remember , Renzolla , that you are a peasant 's daughter , and that the fairy turned you into a queen ; but you were ungrateful , and never as much as thanked her for all she had done for you .
Therefore she has determined to punish you .
But if you wish to lose your long white beard , throw yourself at the fairy 's feet and implore her to forgive you .
She has a tender heart , and will , perhaps , take pity on you . '
Renzolla , who was really sorry for her conduct , took the old man 's advice , and the fairy not only gave her back her former face , but she dressed her in a gold embroidered dress , presented her with a beautiful carriage , and brought her back , accompanied by a host of servants , to her husband .
When the king saw her looking as beautiful as ever , he fell in love with her once more , and bitterly repented having caused her so much suffering .
So Renzolla lived happily ever afterwards , for she loved her husband , honoured the fairy , and was grateful to the old man for having told her the truth .
-LSB- From the Italian , Kletke . -RSB-
WHAT CAME OF PICKING FLOWERS There was once a woman who had three daughters whom she loved very much .
One day the eldest was walking in a water-meadow , when she saw a pink growing in the stream .
She stooped to pick the flower , but her hand had scarcely touched it , when she vanished altogether .
The next morning the second sister went out into the meadow , to see if she could find any traces of the lost girl , and as a branch of lovely roses lay trailing across her path , she bent down to move it away , and in so doing , could not resist plucking one of the roses .
In a moment she too had disappeared .
Wondering what could have become of her two sisters , the youngest followed in their footsteps , and fell a victim to a branch of delicious white jessamine .
So the old woman was left without any daughters at all .
She wept , and wept , and wept , all day and all night , and went on weeping so long , that her son , who had been a little boy when his sisters disappeared , grew up to be a tall youth .
Then one night he asked his mother to tell him what was the matter .
When he had heard the whole story , he said , ` Give me your blessing , mother , and I will go and search the world till I find them . '
So he set forth , and after he had travelled several miles without any adventures , he came upon three big boys fighting in the road .
He stopped and inquired what they were fighting about , and one of them answered : ` My lord !
our father left to us , when he died , a pair of boots , a key , and a cap .
Whoever puts on the boots and wishes himself in any place , will find himself there .
The key will open every door in the world , and with the cap on your head no one can see you .
Now our eldest brother wants to have all three things for himself , and we wish to draw lots for them . '
` Oh , that is easily settled , ' said the youth . '
I will throw this stone as far as I can , and the one who picks it up first , shall have the three things . '
So he took the stone and flung it , and while the three brothers were running after it , he drew hastily on the boots , and said , ` Boots , take me to the place where I shall find my eldest sister . '
The next moment the young man was standing on a steep mountain before the gates of a strong castle guarded by bolts and bars and iron chains .
The key , which he had not forgotten to put in his pocket , opened the doors one by one , and he walked through a number of halls and corridors , till he met a beautiful and richly-dressed young lady who started back in surprise at the sight of him , and exclaimed , ` Oh , sir , how did you contrive to get in here ? '
The young man replied that he was her brother , and told her by what means he had been able to pass through the doors .
In return , she told him how happy she was , except for one thing , and that was , her husband lay under a spell , and could never break it till there should be put to death a man who could not die .
They talked together for a long time , and then the lady said he had better leave her as she expected her husband back at any moment , and he might not like him to be there ; but the young man assured her she need not be afraid , as he had with him a cap which would make him invisible .
They were still deep in conversation when the door suddenly opened , and a bird flew in , but he saw nothing unusual , for , at the first noise , the youth had put on his cap .
The lady jumped up and brought a large golden basin , into which the bird flew , reappearing directly after as a handsome man .
Turning to his wife , he cried , ' I am sure someone is in the room ! '
She got frightened , and declared that she was quite alone , but her husband persisted , and in the end she had to confess the truth .
-LSB- Illustration : What came of Picking Jessamine -RSB- ` But if he is really your brother , why did you hide him ? '
asked he . '
I believe you are telling me a lie , and if he comes back I shall kill him ! '
At this the youth took off his cap , and came forward .
Then the husband saw that he was indeed so like his wife that he doubted her word no longer , and embraced his brother-in-law with delight .
Drawing a feather from his bird 's skin , he said , ` If you are in danger and cry , `` Come and help me , King of the Birds , '' everything will go well with you . '
The young man thanked him and went away , and after he had left the castle he told the boots that they must take him to the place where his second sister was living .
As before , he found himself at the gates of a huge castle , and within was his second sister , very happy with her husband , who loved her dearly , but longing for the moment when he should be set free from the spell that kept him half his life a fish .
When he arrived and had been introduced by his wife to her brother , he welcomed him warmly , and gave him a fish-scale , saying , ` If you are in danger , call to me , `` Come and help me , King of the Fishes , '' and everything will go well with you . '
The young man thanked him and took his leave , and when he was outside the gates he told the boots to take him to the place where his youngest sister lived .
The boots carried him to a dark cavern , with steps of iron leading up to it .
Inside she sat , weeping and sobbing , and as she had done nothing else the whole time she had been there , the poor girl had grown very thin .
When she saw a man standing before her , she sprang to her feet and exclaimed , ` Oh , whoever you are , save me and take me from this horrible place ! '
Then he told her who he was , and how he had seen her sisters , whose happiness was spoilt by the spell under which both their husbands lay , and she , in turn , related her story .
She had been carried off in the water-meadow by a horrible monster , who wanted to make her marry him by force , and had kept her a prisoner all these years because she would not submit to his will .
Every day he came to beg her to consent to his wishes , and to remind her that there was no hope of her being set free , as he was the most constant man in the world , and besides that he could never die .
At these words the youth remembered his two enchanted brothers-in-law , and he advised his sister to promise to marry the old man , if he would tell her why he could never die .
Suddenly everything began to tremble , as if it was shaken by a whirlwind , and the old man entered , and flinging himself at the feet of the girl , he said : ` Are you still determined never to marry me ?
If so you will have to sit there weeping till the end of the world , for I shall always be faithful to my wish to marry you ! '
` Well , I will marry you , ' she said , ` if you will tell me why it is that you can never die . '
Then the old man burst into peals of laughter .
` Ah , ah , ah !
You are thinking how you would be able to kill me ?
Well , to do that , you would have to find an iron casket which lies at the bottom of the sea , and has a white dove inside , and then you would have to find the egg which the dove laid , and bring it here , and dash it against my head . '
And he laughed again in his certainty that no one had ever got down to the bottom of the sea , and that if they did , they would never find the casket , or be able to open it .
When he could speak once more , he said , ` Now you will be obliged to marry me , as you know my secret . '
But she begged so hard that the wedding might be put off for three days , that he consented , and went away rejoicing at his victory .
When he had disappeared , the brother took off the cap which had kept him invisible all this time , and told his sister not to lose heart as he hoped in three days she would be free .
Then he drew on his boots , and wished himself at the seashore , and there he was directly .
Drawing out the fish-scale , he cried , ` Come and help me , King of the Fishes ! '
and his brother-in-law swam up , and asked what he could do .
The young man related the story , and when he had finished his listener summoned all the fishes to his presence .
The last to arrive was a little sardine , who apologised for being so late , but said she had hurt herself by knocking her head against an iron casket that lay in the bottom of the sea .
The king ordered several of the largest and strongest of his subjects to take the little sardine as a guide , and bring him the iron casket .
They soon returned with the box placed across their backs and laid it down before him .
Then the youth produced the key and said , ` Key , open that box ! '
and the key opened it , and though they were all crowding round , ready to catch it , the white dove within flew away .
-LSB- Illustration : HOW THE WHITE DOVE ESCAPED -RSB- It was useless to go after it , and for a moment the young man 's heart sank .
The next minute , however , he remembered that he had still his feather , and drew it out crying , ` Come to me , King of the Birds ! '
and a rushing noise was heard , and the King of the Birds perched on his shoulder , and asked what he could do to help him .
His brother-in-law told him the whole story , and when he had finished the King of the Birds commanded all his subjects to hasten to his presence .
In an instant the air was dark with birds of all sizes , and at the very last came the white dove , apologising for being so late by saying that an old friend had arrived at his nest , and he had been obliged to give him some dinner .
The King of the Birds ordered some of them to show the young man the white dove 's nest , and when they reached it , there lay the egg which was to break the spell and set them all free .
When it was safely in his pocket , he told the boots to carry him straight to the cavern where his youngest sister sat awaiting him .
Now it was already far on into the third day , which the old man had fixed for the wedding , and when the youth reached the cavern with his cap on his head , he found the monster there , urging the girl to keep her word and let the marriage take place at once .
At a sign from her brother she sat down and invited the old monster to lay his head on her lap .
He did so with delight , and her brother standing behind her back passed her the egg unseen .
She took it , and dashed it straight at the horrible head , and the monster started , and with a groan that people took for the rumblings of an earthquake , he turned over and died .
As the breath went out of his body the husbands of the two eldest daughters resumed their proper shapes , and , sending for their mother-in-law , whose sorrow was so unexpectedly turned into joy , they had a great feast , and the youngest sister was rich to the end of her days with the treasures she found in the cave , collected by the monster .
-LSB- From the Portuguese . -RSB-
THE STORY OF BENSURDATU There was once a king and a queen who had three wonderfully beautiful daughters , and their one thought , from morning till night , was how they could make the girls happy .
One day the princesses said to the king , ` Dear father , we want so much to have a picnic , and eat our dinner in the country . '
` Very well , dear children , let us have a picnic by all means , ' answered he , and gave orders that everything should be got ready .
When luncheon was prepared it was put into a cart , and the royal family stepped into a carriage and drove right away into the country .
After a few miles they reached a house and garden belonging to the king , and close by was their favourite place for lunch .
The drive had made them very hungry , and they ate with a hearty appetite , till almost all the food had disappeared .
When they had quite done , they said to their parents : ` Now we should like to wander about the garden a little , but when you want to go home , just call to us . '
And they ran off , laughing , down a green glade , which led to the garden .
But no sooner had they stepped across the fence , than a dark cloud came down and covered them , and prevented them seeing whither they were going .
-LSB- Illustration : NOW THE THREE PRINCESSES WERE LOST -RSB- Meanwhile the king and queen sat lazily among the heather , and an hour or two slipped away .
The sun was dropping towards the horizon , and they began to think it was time to go home .
So they called to their daughters and called again , but no one answered them .
Frightened at the silence , they searched every corner of the garden , the house , and the neighbouring wood , but no trace of the girls was to be found anywhere .
The earth seemed to have swallowed them up .
The poor parents were in despair .
The queen wept all the way home , and for many days after , and the king issued a proclamation that whoever should bring back his lost daughters should have one of them to wife , and should , after his death , reign in his stead .
Now two young generals were at that time living at the court , and when they heard the king 's declaration , they said one to the other : ` Let us go in search of them ; perhaps we shall be the lucky persons . '
And they set out , each mounted on a strong horse , taking with them a change of raiment and some money .
But though they inquired at every village they rode through , they could hear nothing of the princesses , and by-and-by their money was all spent , and they were forced to sell their horses , or give up the search .
Even this money only lasted a little while longer , and nothing but their clothes lay between them and starvation .
They sold the spare garments that were bound on their saddles , and went in the coats they stood up in to the inn , to beg for some food , as they were really starving .
When , however , they had to pay for what they had eaten and drank , they said to the host : ` We have no money , and naught but the clothes we stand up in .
Take these , and give us instead some old rags , and let us stay here and serve you . '
And the innkeeper was content with the bargain , and the generals remained , and were his servants .
All this time the king and queen remained in their palace hungering for their children , but not a word was heard of either of them or of the generals who had gone to seek for them .
Now there was living in the palace a faithful servant of the king 's called Bensurdatu , who had served him for many years , and when Bensurdatu saw how grieved the king was , he lifted up his voice and said to him : ` Your majesty , let me go and seek your daughters . '
` No , no , Bensurdatu , ' replied the king .
` Three daughters have I lost , and two generals , and shall I lose you also ? '
But Bensurdatu said again : ` Let me now go , your majesty ; trust me , and I will bring you back your daughters . '
Then the king gave way , and Bensurdatu set forth , and rode on till he came to the inn , where he dismounted and asked for food .
It was brought by the two generals , whom he knew at once in spite of their miserable clothes , and , much astonished , asked them how in the world they came there .
They told him all their adventures , and he sent for the innkeeper , and said to him : ` Give them back their garments , and I will pay everything that they owe you . '
And the innkeeper did as he was bid , and when the two generals were dressed in their proper clothes , they declared they would join Bensurdatu , and with him seek for the king 's daughters .
The three companions rode on for many miles , and at length they came to a wild place , without sign of a human being .
It was getting dark , and fearing to be lost on this desolate spot they pushed on their horses , and at last saw a light in the window of a tiny hut .
` Who comes there ? '
asked a voice , as they knocked at the door .
` Oh !
have pity on us , and give us a night 's shelter , ' replied Bensurdatu ; ` we are three tired travellers who have lost our way . '
Then the door was opened by a very old woman , who stood back , and beckoned them to enter .
` Whence do you come , and whither do you go ? '
said she .
` Ah , good woman , we have a heavy task before us , ' answered Bensurdatu , ` we are bound to carry the king 's daughters back to the palace ! '
` Oh , unhappy creatures , ' cried she , ` you know not what you are doing !
The king 's daughters were covered by a thick cloud , and no one knows where they may now be . '
` Oh , tell us , if you know , my good woman , ' entreated Bensurdatu , ` for with them lies all our happiness . '
` Even if I were to tell you , ' answered she , ` you could not rescue them .
To do that you would have to go to the very bottom of a deep river , and though certainly you would find the king 's daughters there , yet the two eldest are guarded by two giants , and the youngest is watched by a serpent with seven heads . '
The two generals , who stood by listening , were filled with terror at her words , and wished to return immediately ; but Bensurdatu stood firm , and said : ` Now we have got so far we must carry the thing through .
Tell us where the river is , so that we may get there as soon as possible . '
And the old woman told them , and gave them some cheese , wine , and bread , so that they should not set forth starving ; and when they had eaten and drunk they laid themselves down to sleep .
The sun had only just risen above the hills next morning before they all woke , and , taking leave of the wise woman who had helped them , they rode on till they came to the river . '
I am the eldest , ' said one of the generals , ` and it is my right to go down first . '
So the others fastened a cord round him , and gave him a little bell , and let him down into the water .
But scarcely had the river closed above his head when such dreadful rushing sounds and peals of thunder came crashing round about him that he lost all his courage , and rang his bell , if perchance it might be heard amidst all this clamour .
Great was his relief when the rope began slowly to pull him upwards .
Then the other general plunged in ; but he fared no better than the first , and was soon on dry ground again .
` Well , you are a brave pair ! '
said Bensurdatu , as he tied the rope round his own waist ; ` let us see what will happen to me . '
And when he heard the thunder and clamour round about him he thought to himself , ` Oh , make as much noise as you like , it wo n't hurt me ! '
When his feet touched the bottom he found himself in a large , brilliantly lighted hall , and in the middle sat the eldest princess , and in front of her lay a huge giant , fast asleep .
Directly she saw Bensurdatu she nodded to him , and asked with her eyes how he had come there .
For answer he drew his sword , and was about to cut off the giant 's head , when she stopped him quickly , and made signs to hide himself , as the giant was just beginning to wake . '
I smell the flesh of a man ! '
murmured he , stretching his great arms .
` Why , how in the world could any man get down here ? '
replied she ; ` you had better go to sleep again . '
So he turned over and went to sleep .
Then the princess signed to Bensurdatu , who drew his sword and cut off the giant 's head with such a blow that it flew into the corner .
And the heart of the princess leapt within her , and she placed a golden crown on the head of Bensurdatu , and called him her deliverer .
` Now show me where your sisters are , ' he said , ` that I may free them also . '
So the princess opened a door , and led him into another hall , wherein sat her next sister , guarded by a giant who was fast asleep .
When the second princess saw them , she made a sign to them to hide themselves , for the giant was showing symptoms of waking . '
I smell man 's flesh ! '
murmured he , sleepily .
` Now , how could any man get down here ? '
asked she ; ` go to sleep again . '
And as soon as he closed his eyes , Bensurdatu stole out from his corner , and struck such a blow at his head that it flew far , far away .
The princess could not find words to thank Bensurdatu for what he had done , and she too placed in his hand a golden crown .
` Now show me where your youngest sister is , ' said he , ` that I may free her also . '
` Ah !
that I fear you will never be able to do , ' sighed they , ` for she is in the power of a serpent with seven heads . '
` Take me to him , ' replied Bensurdatu .
` It will be a splendid fight . '
Then the princess opened a door , and Bensurdatu passed through , and found himself in a hall that was even larger than the other two .
And there stood the youngest sister , chained fast to the wall , and before her was stretched a serpent with seven heads , horrible to see .
As Bensurdatu came forward it twisted all its seven heads in his direction , and then made a quick dart to snatch him within its grasp .
But Bensurdatu drew his sword and laid about him , till the seven heads were rolling on the floor .
Flinging down his sword he rushed to the princess and broke her chains , and she wept for joy , and embraced him , and took the golden crown from off her head , and placed it in his hand .
-LSB- Illustration : BENSURDATU ATTACKS THE SEVEN-HEADED SERPENT . -RSB-
` Now we must go back to the upper world , ' said Bensurdatu , and led her to the bottom of the river .
The other princesses were waiting there , and he tied the rope round the eldest , and rung his bell .
And the generals above heard , and drew her gently up .
They then unfastened the cord and threw it back into the river , and in a few moments the second princess stood beside her sister .
So now there were left only Bensurdatu and the youngest princess .
` Dear Bensurdatu , ' said she , ` do me a kindness , and let them draw you up before me .
I dread the treachery of the generals . '
` No , no , ' replied Bensurdatu , ' I certainly will not leave you down here .
There is nothing to fear from my comrades . '
` If it is your wish I will go up then ; but first I swear that if you do not follow to marry me , I shall stay single for the rest of my life . '
Then he bound the rope round her , and the generals drew her up .
But instead of lowering the rope again into the river , envy at the courage and success of Bensurdatu so filled the hearts of the two generals , that they turned away and left him to perish .
And , more than that , they threatened the princesses , and forced them to promise to tell their parents that it was the two generals who had set them free .
` And if they should ask you about Bensurdatu , you must say you have never seen him , ' they added ; and the princesses , fearing for their lives , promised everything , and they rode back to court together .
The king and queen were beside themselves with joy when they saw their dear children once more .
But when the generals had told their story , and the dangers they had run , the king declared that they had gained their reward , and that the two eldest princesses should become their wives .
And now we must see what poor Bensurdatu was doing .
He waited patiently a long , long time , but when the rope never came back he knew he had been wrong , and that his comrades had betrayed him .
` Ah , now I shall never reach the world again , ' murmured he ; but being a brave man , and knowing that moaning his fate would profit him nothing , he rose and began to search through the three halls , where , perhaps , he might find something to help him .
In the last one stood a dish , covered with food , which reminded him that he was hungry , and he sat down and ate and drank .
Months passed away , when , one morning , as he was walking through the halls , he noticed a purse hanging on the wall , which had never been there before .
He took it down to examine it , and nearly let it fall with surprise when a voice came from the purse saying : ` What commands have you ? '
` Oh , take me out of this horrible place , and up into the world again ; ' and in a moment he was , standing by the river bank , with the purse tightly grasped in his hand .
` Now let me have the most beautiful ship that ever was built , all manned and ready for sea . '
And there was the ship , with a flag floating from its mast on which were the words , ` King with the three crowns . '
Then Bensurdatu climbed on board , and sailed away to the city where the three princesses dwelt ; and when he reached the harbour he blew trumpets and beat drums , so that every one ran to the doors and windows .
And the king heard too , and saw the beautiful vessel , and said to himself : ` That must indeed be a mighty monarch , for he has three crowns while I have only one . '
So he hastened to greet the stranger , and invited him to his castle , for , thought he , ` this will be a fine husband for my youngest daughter . '
Now , the youngest princess had never married , and had turned a deaf ear to all her wooers .
Such a long time had passed since Bensurdatu had left the palace , that the king never guessed for a moment that the splendidly clad stranger before him was the man whom he had so deeply mourned as dead .
` Noble lord , ' said he , ` let us feast and make merry together , and then , if it seem good to you , do me the honour to take my youngest daughter to wife . '
And Bensurdatu was glad , and they all sat down to a great feast , and there were great rejoicings .
But only the youngest daughter was sad , for her thoughts were with Bensurdatu .
After they arose from the table the king said to her , ` Dear child , this mighty lord does you the honour to ask your hand in marriage . '
` Oh , father , ' answered she , ` spare me , I pray you , for I desire to remain single . '
Then Bensurdatu turned to her , and said : ` And if I were Bensurdatu , would you give the same answer to me ? '
And as she stood silently gazing at him , he added : ` Yes , I am Bensurdatu ; and this is my story . '
The king and queen had their hearts stirred within them at the tale of his adventures , and when he had ended the king stretched out his hand , and said : ` Dear Bensurdatu , my youngest daughter shall indeed be your wife ; and when I die my crown shall be yours .
As for the men who have betrayed you , they shall leave the country and you shall see them no more . '
And the wedding feast was ordered , and rejoicings were held for three days over the marriage of Bensurdatu and the youngest princess .
-LSB- From the Sicilianische Mrchen . -RSB-
THE MAGICIAN 'S HORSE Once upon a time , there was a king who had three sons .
Now it happened that one day the three princes went out hunting in a large forest at some distance from their father 's palace , and the youngest prince lost his way , so his brothers had to return home without him .
For four days the prince wandered through the glades of the forest , sleeping on moss beneath the stars at night , and by day living on roots and wild berries .
At last , on the morning of the fifth day , he came to a large open space in the middle of the forest , and here stood a stately palace ; but neither within nor without was there a trace of human life .
The prince entered the open door and wandered through the deserted rooms without seeing a living soul .
At last he came on a great hall , and in the centre of the hall was a table spread with dainty dishes and choice wines .
The prince sat down , and satisfied his hunger and thirst , and immediately afterwards the table disappeared from his sight .
This struck the prince as very strange ; but though he continued his search through all the rooms , upstairs and down , he could find no one to speak to .
At last , just as it was beginning to get dark , he heard steps in the distance and he saw an old man coming towards him up the stairs .
` What are you doing wandering about my castle ? '
asked the old man .
To whom the prince replied : ' I lost my way hunting in the forest .
If you will take me into your service , I should like to stay with you , and will serve you faithfully . '
` Very well , ' said the old man .
` You may enter my service .
You will have to keep the stove always lit , you will have to fetch the wood for it from the forest , and you will have the charge of the black horse in the stables .
I will pay you a florin a day , and at meal times you will always find the table in the hall spread with food and wine , and you can eat and drink as much as you require . '
The prince was satisfied , and he entered the old man 's service , and promised to see that there was always wood on the stove , so that the fire should never die out .
Now , though he did not know it , his new master was a magician , and the flame of the stove was a magic fire , and if it had gone out the magician would have lost a great part of his power .
One day the prince forgot , and let the fire burn so low that it very nearly burnt out .
Just as the flame was flickering the old man stormed into the room .
` What do you mean by letting the fire burn so low ? '
he growled . '
I have only arrived in the nick of time . '
And while the prince hastily threw a log on the stove and blew on the ashes to kindle the glow , his master gave him a severe box on the ear , and warned him that if ever it happened again it would fare badly with him .
One day the prince was sitting disconsolate in the stables when , to his surprise , the black horse spoke to him .
` Come into my stall , ' it said , ' I have something to say to you .
Fetch my bridle and saddle from that cupboard and put them on me .
Take the bottle that is beside them ; it contains an ointment which will make your hair shine like pure gold ; then put all the wood you can gather together on to the stove , till it is piled quite high up . '
So the prince did what the horse told him ; he saddled and bridled the horse , he put the ointment on his hair till it shone like gold , and he made such a big fire in the stove that the flames sprang up and set fire to the roof , and in a few minutes the palace was burning like a huge bonfire .
Then he hurried back to the stables , and the horse said to him : ` There is one thing more you must do .
In the cupboad you will find a looking-glass , a brush and a riding-whip .
Bring them with you , mount on my back , and ride as hard as you can , for now the house is burning merrily . '
The prince did as the horse bade him .
Scarcely had he got into the saddle than the horse was off and away , galloping at such a pace that , in a short time , the forest and all the country belonging to the magician lay far behind them .
In the meantime the magician returned to his palace , which he found in smouldering ruins .
In vain he called for his servant .
At last he went to look for him in the stables , and when he discovered that the black horse had disappeared too , he at once suspected that they had gone together ; so he mounted a roan horse that was in the next stall , and set out in pursuit .
As the prince rode , the quick ears of his horse heard the sound of pursuing feet .
` Look behind you , ' he said , ` and see if the old man is following . '
And the prince turned in his saddle and saw a cloud like smoke or dust in the distance .
` We must hurry , ' said the horse .
After they had galloped for some time , the horse said again : ` Look behind , and see if he is still at some distance . '
` He is quite close , ' answered the prince .
` Then throw the looking-glass on the ground , ' said the horse .
So the prince threw it ; and when the magician came up , the roan horse stepped on the mirror , and crash !
his foot went through the glass , and he stumbled and fell , cutting his feet so badly that there was nothing for the old man to do but to go slowly back with him to the stables , and put new shoes on his feet .
Then they started once more in pursuit of the prince , for the magician set great value on the horse , and was determined not to lose it .
In the meanwhile the prince had gone a great distance ; but the quick ears of the black horse detected the sound of following feet from afar .
` Dismount , ' he said to the prince ; ` put your ear to the ground , and tell me if you do not hear a sound . '
So the prince dismounted and listened . '
I seem to hear the earth tremble , ' he said ; ' I think he can not be very far off . '
` Mount me at once , ' answered the horse , ` and I will gallop as fast as I can . '
And he set off so fast that the earth seemed to fly from under his hoofs .
` Look back once more , ' he said , after a short time , ` and see if he is in sight . ' '
I see a cloud and a flame , ' answered the prince ; ` but a long way off . '
` We must make haste , ' said the horse .
And shortly after he said : ` Look back again ; he ca n't be far off now . '
The prince turned in his saddle , and exclaimed : ` He is close behind us , in a minute the flame from his horse 's nostrils will reach us . '
` Then throw the brush on the ground , ' said the horse .
And the prince threw it , and in an instant the brush was changed into such a thick wood that even a bird could not have got through it , and when the old man got up to it the roan horse came suddenly to a stand-still , not able to advance a step into the thick tangle .
So there was nothing for the magician to do but to retrace his steps , to fetch an axe , with which he cut himself a way through the wood .
But it took him some time , during which the prince and the black horse got on well ahead .
-LSB- Illustration : How The Magician Was Thwarted by The BRUSH -RSB- But once more they heard the sound of pursuing feet .
` Look back , ' said the black horse , ` and see if he is following . '
` Yes , ' answered the prince , ` this time I hear him distinctly . '
` Let us hurry on , ' said the horse .
And a little later he said : ` Look back now , and see if he is in sight . '
` Yes , ' said the prince , turning round , ' I see the flame ; he is close behind us . '
` Then you must throw down the whip , ' answered the horse .
And in the twinkling of an eye the whip was changed into a broad river .
When the old man got up to it he urged the roan horse into the water , but as the water mounted higher and higher , the magic flame which gave the magician all his power grew smaller and smaller , till , with a fizz , it went out , and the old man and the roan horse sank in the river and disappeared .
When the prince looked round they were no longer to be seen .
` Now , ' said the horse , ` you may dismount ; there is nothing more to fear , for the magician is dead .
Beside that brook you will find a willow wand .
Gather it , and strike the earth with it , and it will open and you will see a door at your feet . '
When the prince had struck the earth with the wand a door appeared , and opened into a large vaulted stone hall .
` Lead me into that hall , ' said the horse , ' I will stay there ; but you must go through the fields till you reach a garden , in the midst of which is a king 's palace .
When you get there you must ask to be taken into the king 's service .
Good-bye , and do n't forget me . '
So they parted ; but first the horse made the prince promise not to let anyone in the palace see his golden hair .
So he bound a scarf round it , like a turban , and the prince set out through the fields , till he reached a beautiful garden , and beyond the garden he saw the walls and towers of a stately palace .
At the garden gate he met the gardener , who asked him what he wanted . '
I want to take service with the king , ' replied the prince .
` Well , you may stay and work under me in the garden , ' said the man ; for as the prince was dressed like a poor man , he could not tell that he was a king 's son . '
I need someone to weed the ground and to sweep the dead leaves from the paths .
You shall have a florin a day , a horse to help you to cart the leaves away , and food and drink . '
So the prince consented , and set about his work .
But when his food was given to him he only ate half of it ; the rest he carried to the vaulted hall beside the brook , and gave to the black horse .
And this he did every day , and the horse thanked him for his faithful friendship .
One evening , as they were together , after his work in the garden was over , the horse said to him : ` To-morrow a large company of princes and great lords are coming to your king 's palace .
They are coming from far and near , as wooers for the three princesses .
They will all stand in a row in the courtyard of the palace , and the three princesses will come out , and each will carry a diamond apple in her hand , which she will throw into the air .
At whose-soever feet the apple falls he will be the bridegroom of that princess .
You must be close by in the garden at your work .
The apple of the youngest princess , who is much the most beautiful of the sisters , will roll past the wooers and stop in front of you .
Pick it up at once and put it in your pocket . '
The next day , when the wooers were all assembled in the courtyard of the castle , everything happened just as the horse had said .
The princesses threw the apples into the air , and the diamond apple of the youngest princess rolled past all the wooers , out on to the garden , and stopped at the feet of the young gardener , who was busy sweeping the leaves away .
In a moment he had stooped down , picked up the apple and put it in his pocket .
As he stooped the scarf round his head slipped a little to one side , and the princess caught sight of his golden hair , and loved him from that moment .
-LSB- Illustration : The Gardener gets the Apple -RSB- But the king was very sad , for his youngest daughter was the one he loved best .
But there was no help for it ; and the next day a threefold wedding was celebrated at the palace , and after the wedding the youngest princess returned with her husband to the small hut in the garden where he lived .
Some time after this the people of a neighbouring country went to war with the king , and he set out to battle , accompanied by the husbands of his two eldest daughters mounted on stately steeds .
But the husband of the youngest daughter had nothing but the old broken-down horse which helped him in his garden work ; and the king , who was ashamed of this son-in-law , refused to give him any other .
So as he was determined not to be left behind , he went into the garden , mounted the sorry nag , and set out .
But scarcely had he ridden a few yards before the horse stumbled and fell .
So he dismounted and went down to the brook , to where the black horse lived in the vaulted hall .
And the horse said to him : ` Saddle and bridle me , and then go into the next room and you will find a suit of armour and a sword .
Put them on , and we will ride forth together to battle . '
And the prince did as he was told ; and when he had mounted the horse his armour glittered in the sun , and he looked so brave and handsome , that no one would have recognised him as the gardener who swept away the dead leaves from the paths .
The horse bore him away at a great pace , and when they reached the battle-field they saw that the king was losing the day , so many of his warriors had been slain .
But when the warrior on his black charger and in glittering armour appeared on the scene , hewing right and left with his sword , the enemy were dismayed and fled in all directions , leaving the king master of the field .
Then the king and his two sons-in-law , when they saw their deliverer , shouted , and all that was left of the army joined in the cry : ' A god has come to our rescue ! '
And they would have surrounded him , but his black horse rose in the air and bore him out of their sight .
Soon after this , part of the country rose in rebellion against the king , and once more he and his two sons-in-law had to fare forth to battle .
And the son-in-law who was disguised as a gardener wanted to fight too .
So he came to the king and said : ` Dear father , let me ride with you to fight your enemies . ' '
I do n't want a blockhead like you to fight for me , ' answered the king .
` Besides , I have n't got a horse fit for you .
But see , there is a carter on the road carting hay , you may take his horse . '
So the prince took the carter 's horse , but the poor beast was old and tired , and after it had gone a few yards it stumbled and fell .
So the prince returned sadly to the garden and watched the king ride forth at the head of the army accompanied by his two sons-in-law .
When they were out of sight the prince betook himself to the vaulted chamber by the brook-side , and having taken counsel of the faithful black horse , he put on the glittering suit of armour , and was borne on the back of the horse through the air , to where the battle was being fought .
And once more he routed the king 's enemies , hacking to right and left with his sword .
And again they all cried : ' A god has come to our rescue ! '
But when they tried to detain him the black horse rose in the air and bore him out of their sight .
When the king and his sons-in-law returned home they could talk of nothing but the hero who had fought for them , and all wondered who he could be .
Shortly afterwards the king of a neighbouring country declared war , and once more the king and his sons-in-law and his subjects had to prepare themselves for battle , and once more the prince begged to ride with them , but the king said he had no horse to spare for him .
` But , ' he added , ` you may take the horse of the woodman who brings the wood from the forest , it is good enough for you . '
So the prince took the woodman 's horse , but it was so old and useless that it could not carry him beyond the castle gates .
So he betook himself once more to the vaulted hall , where the black horse had prepared a still more magnificent suit of armour for him than the one he had worn on the previous occasions , and when he had put it on , and mounted on the back of the horse , he bore him straight to the battle-field , and once more he scattered the king 's enemies , fighting single-handed in their ranks , and they fled in all directions .
But it happened that one of the enemy struck with his sword and wounded the prince in the leg .
And the king took his own pocket-handkerchief , with his name and crown embroidered on it , and bound it round the wounded leg .
And the king would fain have compelled him to mount in a litter and be carried straight to the palace , and two of his knights were to lead the black charger to the royal stables .
But the prince put his hand on the mane of his faithful horse , and managed to pull himself up into the saddle , and the horse mounted into the air with him .
Then they all shouted and cried : ` The warrior who has fought for us is a god !
He must be a god . '
And throughout all the kingdom nothing else was spoken about , and all the people said : ` Who can the hero be who has fought for us in so many battles ?
He can not be a man , he must be a god . '
And the king said : ` If only I could see him once more , and if it turned out that after all he was a man and not a god , I would reward him with half my kingdom . '
Now when the prince reached his home -- the gardener 's hut where he lived with his wife -- he was weary , and he lay down on his bed and slept .
And his wife noticed the handkerchief bound round his wounded leg , and she wondered what it could be .
Then she looked at it more closely and saw in the corner that it was embroidered with her father 's name and the royal crown .
So she ran straight to the palace and told her father .
And he and his two sons-in-law followed her back to her house , and there the gardener lay asleep on his bed .
And the scarf that he always wore bound round his head had slipped off , and his golden hair gleamed on the pillow .
And they all recognised that this was the hero who had fought and won so many battles for them .
-LSB- Illustration : The Hero discovered -RSB- Then there was great rejoicing throughout the land , and the king rewarded his son-in-law with half of his kingdom , and he and his wife reigned happily over it .
THE LITTLE GRAY MAN A nun , a countryman , and a blacksmith were once wandering through the world together .
One day they lost their way in a thick , dark forest , and were thankful when they saw , in the distance , the walls of a house , where they hoped they might obtain refuge for the night .
When they got close to the house they found that it was an old deserted castle , fast falling into ruins , but with some of the rooms in it still habitable .
As they were homeless they determined to take up their abode in the castle , and they arranged that one of them should always stay at home and keep house , while the other two went out into the world to seek their fortunes .
The lot of remaining at home fell first to the nun , and when the countryman and the blacksmith had gone out into the wood , she set to work , tidied up the house , and prepared all the food for the day .
As her companions did not come home for their mid-day meal , she ate up her own portion and put the rest in the oven to keep warm .
Just as she was sitting down to sew , the door opened and a little gray man came in , and , standing before her , said : ` Oh !
how cold I am ! '
The nun was very sorry for him , and said at once : ` Sit down by the fire and warm yourself . '
The little man did as he was told , and soon called out : ` Oh !
how hungry I am ! '
The nun answered : ` There is food in the oven , help yourself . '
The little man did not need to be told twice , for he set to work and ate up everything with the greatest possible despatch .
When the nun saw this she was very angry , and scolded the dwarf because he had left nothing for her companions .
The little man resented her words , and flew into such a passion that he seized the nun , beat her , and threw her first against one wall and then against the other .
When he had nearly killed her he left her lying on the floor , and hastily walked out of the house .
In the evening the countryman and the blacksmith returned home , and when they found , on demanding their dinner , that there was nothing left for them , they reproached the nun bitterly , and refused to believe her when she tried to tell them what had happened .
The next day the countryman asked to be left in charge of the house , and promised that , if he remained at home , no one should go hungry to bed .
So the other two went out into the forest , and the countryman having prepared the food for the day , ate up his own portion , and put the rest in the oven .
Just as he had finished clearing away , the door opened and the little gray man walked in , and this time he had two heads .
He shook and trembled as before , and exclaimed : ` Oh !
how cold I am ! '
The countryman , who was frightened out of his wits , begged him to draw near the fire and warm himself .
Soon after the dwarf looked greedily round , and said : ` Oh !
how hungry I am ! '
` There is food in the oven , so you can eat , ' replied the countryman .
Then the little man fell to with both his heads , and soon finished the last morsel .
When the countryman scolded him for this proceeding he treated him exactly as he had done the nun , and left the poor fellow more dead than alive .
Now when the blacksmith came home with the nun in the evening , and found nothing for supper , he flew into a passion ; and swore that he would stay at home the following day , and that no one should go supperless to bed .
When day dawned the countryman and the nun set out into the wood , and the blacksmith prepared all the food for the day as the others had done .
Again the gray dwarf entered the house without knocking , and this time he had three heads .
When he complained of cold , the blacksmith told him to sit near the fire ; and when he said he was hungry , the blacksmith put some food on a plate and gave it to him .
The dwarf made short work of what was provided for him , and then , looking greedily round with his six eyes , he demanded more .
When the blacksmith refused to give him another morsel , he flew into a terrible rage , and proceeded to treat him in the same way as he had treated his companions .
-LSB- Illustration : THE LITTLE GRAY MAN `` HE DEMANDED MORE '' -RSB- But the blacksmith was a match for him , for he seized a huge hammer and struck off two of the dwarf 's heads with it .
The little man yelled with pain and rage , and hastily fled from the house .
The blacksmith ran after him , and pursued him for a long way ; but at last they came to an iron door , and through it the little creature vanished .
The door shut behind him , and the blacksmith had to give up the pursuit and return home .
He found that the nun and the countryman had come back in the meantime , and they were much delighted when he placed some food before them , and showed them the two heads he had struck off with his hammer .
The three companions determined there and then to free themselves from the power of the gray dwarf , and the very next day they set to work to find him .
They had to walk a long way , and to search for many hours , before they found the iron door through which the dwarf had disappeared ; and when they had found it they had the greatest difficulty in opening it .
When at last they succeeded in forcing the lock , they entered a large hall , in which sat a young and lovely girl , working at a table .
The moment she saw the nun , the blacksmith , and the countryman , she fell at their feet , thanking them with tears in her eyes for having set her free .
She told them that she was a king 's daughter , who had been shut up in the castle by a mighty magician .
The day before , just about noon , she had suddenly felt the magic power over her disappear , and ever since that moment she had eagerly awaited the arrival of her deliverers .
She went on to say that there was yet another princess shut up in the castle , who had also fallen under the might of the magician .
They wandered through many halls and rooms till at last they found the second princess , who was quite as grateful as the first , and thanked the three companions most warmly for having set her free .
Then the princesses told their rescuers that a great treasure lay hidden in the cellars of the castle , but that it was carefully guarded by a fierce and terrible dog .
Nothing daunted , they all went down below at once , and found the fierce animal mounting guard over the treasure as the princesses had said .
But one blow from the blacksmith 's hammer soon made an end of the monster , and they found themselves in a vaulted chamber full of gold and silver and precious stones .
Beside the treasure stood a young and handsome man , who advanced to meet them , and thanked the nun , the blacksmith , and the countryman , for having freed him from the magic spell he was under .
He told them that he was a king 's son , who had been banished to this castle by a wicked magician , and that he had been changed into the three-headed dwarf .
When he had lost two of his heads the magic power over the two princesses had been removed , and when the blacksmith had killed the horrible dog , then he too had been set free .
To show his gratitude he begged the three companions to divide the treasure between them , which they did ; but there was so much of it that it took a very long time .
The princesses , too , were so grateful to their rescuers , that one married the blacksmith , and the other the countryman .
Then the prince claimed the nun as his bride , and they all lived happily together till they died .
-LSB- From the German , Kletke . -RSB-
HERR LAZARUS AND THE DRAKEN Once upon a time there was a cobbler called Lazarus , who was very fond of honey .
One day , as he ate some while he sat at work , the flies collected in such numbers that with one blow he killed forty .
Then he went and ordered a sword to be made for him , on which he had written these words : ` With one blow I have slain forty . '
When the sword was ready he took it and went out into the world , and when he was two days ' journey from home he came to a spring , by which he laid himself down and slept .
Now in that country there dwelt Draken , one of whom came to the spring to draw water ; there he found Lazarus sleeping , and read what was written on his sword .
Then he went back to his people and told them what he had seen , and they all advised him to make fellowship with this powerful stranger .
So the Draken returned to the spring , awoke Lazarus , and said that if it was agreeable to him they should make fellowship together .
-LSB- Illustration : How THE DRAKEN FOUND HERR LAZARUS ASLEEP by the SPRING -RSB- Lazarus answered that he was willing , and after a priest had blessed the fellowship , they returned together to the other Draken , and Lazarus dwelt among them .
After some days they told him that it was their custom to take it in turns to bring wood and water , and as he was now of their company , he must take his turn .
They went first for water and wood , but at last it came to be Lazarus 's turn to go for water .
The Draken had a great leathern bag , holding two hundred measures of water .
This Lazarus could only , with great difficulty , drag empty to the spring , and because he could not carry it back full , he did not fill it at all , but , instead , he dug up the ground all round the spring .
As Lazarus remained so long away , the Draken sent one of their number to see what had become of him , and when this one came to the spring , Lazarus said to him : ` We will no more plague ourselves by carrying water every day .
I will bring the entire spring home at once , and so we shall be freed from this burden . '
But the Draken called out : ` On no account , Herr Lazarus , else we shall all die of thirst ; rather will we carry the water ourselves in turns , and you alone shall be exempt . '
Next it comes to be Lazarus 's turn to bring the wood .
Now the Draken , when they fetched the wood , always took an entire tree on their shoulder , and so carried it home .
Because Lazarus could not imitate them in this , he went to the forest , tied all the trees together with a thick rope , and remained in the forest till evening .
Again the Draken sent one of them after him to see what had become of him , and when this one asked what he was about , Lazarus answered : ' I will bring the entire forest home at once , so that after that we may have rest . '
But the Draken called out : ` By no means , Herr Lazarus , else we shall all die of cold ; rather will we go ourselves to bring wood , and let you be free . '
And then the Draken tore up one tree , threw it over his shoulder , and so carried it home .
When they had lived together some time , the Draken became weary of Lazarus , and agreed among themselves to kill him ; each Draken , in the night while Lazarus slept , should strike him a blow with a hatchet .
But Lazarus heard of this scheme , and when the evening came , he took a log of wood , covered it with his cloak , laid it in the place where he usually slept , and then hid himself .
In the night the Draken came , and each one hit the log a blow with his hatchet , till it flew in pieces .
Then they believed their object was gained , and they lay down again .
Thereupon Lazarus took the log , threw it away , and laid himself down in its stead .
Towards dawn , he began to groan , and when the Draken heard that , they asked what ailed him , to which he made answer : ` The gnats have stung me horribly . '
This terrified the Draken , for they believed that Lazarus took their blows for gnat-stings , and they determined at any price to get rid of him .
Next morning , therefore , they asked him if he had not wife or child , and said that if he would like to go and visit them they would give him a bag of gold to take away with him .
He agreed willingly to this , but asked further that one of the Draken should go with him to carry the bag of gold .
They consented , and one was sent with him .
When they had come to within a short distance of Lazarus 's house , he said to the Draken : ` Stop here , in the meantime , for I must go on in front and tie up my children , lest they eat you . '
So he went and tied his children with strong ropes , and said to them : ` As soon as the Draken comes in sight , call out as loud as you can , `` Drakenflesh !
Drakenflesh ! '' '
So , when the Draken appeared , the children cried out ; ` Drakenflesh !
Drakenflesh ! '
and this so terrified the Draken that he let the bag fall and fled .
On the road he met a fox , which asked him why he seemed so frightened .
He answered that he was afraid of the children of Herr Lazarus , who had been within a hair-breadth of eating him up .
But the fox laughed , and said : ` What !
you were afraid of the children of Herr Lazarus ?
He had two fowls , one of which I ate yesterday , the other I will go and fetch now -- If you do not believe me , come and see for yourself ; but you must first tie yourself on to my tail . '
The Draken then tied himself on to the fox 's tail , and went back thus with it to Lazarus 's house , in order to see what it would arrange .
There stood Lazarus with his gun raised ready to fire , who , when he saw the fox coming along with the Draken , called out to the fox : ` Did I not tell you to bring me all the Draken , and you bring me only one ? '
When the Draken heard that he made off to the right-about at once , and ran so fast that the fox was dashed in pieces against the stones .
When Lazarus had got quit of the Draken he built himself , with their gold , a magnificent house , in which he spent the rest of his days in great enjoyment .
THE STORY OF THE QUEEN OF THE FLOWERY ISLES There once lived a queen who ruled over the Flowery Isles , whose husband , to her extreme grief , died a few years after their marriage .
On being left a widow she devoted herself almost entirely to the education of the two charming princesses , her only children .
The elder of them was so lovely that as she grew up her mother greatly feared she would excite the jealousy of the Queen of all the Isles , who prided herself on being the most beautiful woman in the world , and insisted on all rivals bowing before her charms .
In order the better to gratify her vanity she had urged the king , her husband , to make war on all the surrounding islands , and as his greatest wish was to please her , the only conditions he imposed on any newly-conquered country was that each princess of every royal house should attend his court as soon as she was fifteen years old , and do homage to the transcendent beauty of his queen .
The Queen of the Flowery Isles , well aware of this law , was fully determined to present her daughter to the proud queen as soon as her fifteenth birthday was past .
The queen herself had heard a rumour of the young princess 's great beauty , and awaited her visit with some anxiety , which soon developed into jealousy , for when the interview took place it was impossible not to be dazzled by such radiant charms , and she was obliged to admit that she had never beheld anyone so exquisitely lovely .
Of course she thought in her own mind ` excepting myself ! '
for nothing could have made her believe it possible that anyone could eclipse her .
But the outspoken admiration of the entire court soon undeceived her , and made her so angry that she pretended illness and retired to her own rooms , so as to avoid witnessing the princess 's triumph .
She also sent word to the Queen of the Flowery Isles that she was sorry not to be well enough to see her again , and advised her to return to her own states with the princess , her daughter .
This message was entrusted to one of the great ladies of the court , who was an old friend of the Queen of the Flowery Isles , and who advised her not to wait to take a formal leave but to go home as fast as she could .
The Queen was not slow to take the hint , and lost no time in obeying it .
Being well aware of the magic powers of the incensed queen , she warned her daughter that she was threatened by some great danger if she left the palace for any reason whatever during the next six months .
The princess promised obedience , and no pains were spared to make the time pass pleasantly for her .
The six months were nearly at an end , and on the very last day a splendid fte was to take place in a lovely meadow quite near the palace .
The princess , who had been able to watch all the preparations from her window , implored her mother to let her go as far as the meadow ; and the queen , thinking all risks must be over , consented , and promised to take her there herself .
The whole court was delighted to see their much-loved princess at liberty , and everyone set off in high glee to join in the fte .
The princess , overjoyed at being once more in the open air , was walking a little in advance of her party when suddenly the earth opened under her feet and closed again after swallowing her up !
-LSB- Illustration : The Princess is swallowed up by the Earth . -RSB-
The queen fainted away with terror , and the younger princess burst into floods of tears and could hardly be dragged away from the fatal spot , whilst the court was overwhelmed with horror at so great a calamity .
Orders were given to bore the earth to a great depth , but in vain ; not a trace of the vanished princess was to be found .
She sank right through the earth and found herself in a desert place with nothing but rocks and trees and no sign of any human being .
The only living creature she saw was a very pretty little dog , who ran up to her and at once began to caress her .
She took him in her arms , and after playing with him for a little put him down again , when he started off in front of her , looking round from time to time as though begging her to follow .
She let him lead her on , and presently reached a little hill , from which she saw a valley full of lovely fruit trees , bearing flowers and fruit together .
The ground was also covered with fruit and flowers , and in the middle of the valley rose a fountain surrounded by a velvety lawn .
The princess hastened to this charming spot , and sitting down on the grass began to think over the misfortune which had befallen her , and burst into tears as she reflected on her sad condition .
The fruit and clear fresh water would , she knew , prevent her from dying of hunger or thirst , but how could she escape if any wild beast appeared and tried to devour her ?
At length , having thought over every possible evil which could happen , the princess tried to distract her mind by playing with the little dog .
She spent the whole day near the fountain , but as night drew on she wondered what she should do , when she noticed that the little dog was pulling at her dress .
-LSB- Illustration : SHE  SPENT  THE  WHOLE  DAY  NEAR  THE  FOUNTAIN  -RSB- She paid no heed to him at first , but as he continued to pull her dress and then run a few steps in one particular direction , she at last decided to follow him ; he stopped before a rock with a large opening in the centre , which he evidently wished her to enter .
The princess did so and discovered a large and beautiful cave lit up by the brilliancy of the stones with which it was lined , with a little couch covered with soft moss in one corner .
She lay down on it and the dog at once nestled at her feet .
Tired out with all she had gone through she soon fell asleep .
Next morning she was awakened very early by the songs of many birds .
The little dog woke up too , and sprang round her in his most caressing manner .
She got up and went outside , the dog as before running on in front and turning back constantly to take her dress and draw her on .
She let him have his way and he soon led her back to the beautiful garden where she had spent part of the day before .
Here she ate some fruit , drank some water of the fountain , and felt as if she had made an excellent meal .
She walked about amongst the flowers , played with her little dog , and at night returned to sleep in the cave .
In this way the princess passed several months , and as her first terrors died away she gradually became more resigned to her fate .
The little dog , too , was a great comfort , and her constant companion .
One day she noticed that he seemed very sad and did not even caress her as usual .
Fearing he might be ill she carried him to a spot where she had seen him eat some particular herbs , hoping they might do him good , but he would not touch them .
He spent all the night , too , sighing and groaning as if in great pain .
At last the princess fell asleep , and when she awoke her first thought was for her little pet , but not finding him at her feet as usual , she ran out of the cave to look for him .
As she stepped out of the cave she caught sight of an old man , who hurried away so fast that she had barely time to see him before he disappeared .
This was a fresh surprise and almost as great a shock as the loss of her little dog , who had been so faithful to her ever since the first day she had seen him .
She wondered if he had strayed away or if the old man had stolen him .
Tormented by all kinds of thoughts and fears she wandered on , when suddenly she felt herself wrapped in a thick cloud and carried through the air .
She made no resistance and before very long found herself , to her great surprise , in an avenue leading to the palace in which she had been born .
No sign of the cloud anywhere .
As the princess approached the palace she perceived that everyone was dressed in black , and she was filled with fear as to the cause of this mourning .
She hastened on and was soon recognised and welcomed with shouts of joy .
Her sister hearing the cheers ran out and embraced the wanderer , with tears of happiness , telling her that the shock of her disappearance had been so terrible that their mother had only survived it a few days .
Since then the younger princess had worn the crown , which she now resigned to her sister to whom it by right belonged .
But the elder wished to refuse it , and would only accept the crown on condition that her sister should share in all the power .
The first acts of the new queen were to do honour to the memory of her dear mother and to shower every mark of generous affection on her sister .
Then , being still very grieved at the loss of her little dog , she had a careful search made for him in every country , and when nothing could be heard of him she was so grieved that she offered half her kingdom to whoever should restore him to her .
Many gentlemen of the court , tempted by the thought of such a reward , set off in all directions in search of the dog ; but all returned empty-handed to the queen , who , in despair , announced that since life was unbearable without her little dog , she would give her hand in marriage to the man who brought him back .
The prospect of such a prize quickly turned the court into a desert , nearly every courtier starting on the quest .
Whilst they were away the queen was informed one day that a very ill-looking man wished to speak with her .
She desired him to be shown into a room where she was sitting with her sister .
On entering her presence he said that he was prepared to give the queen her little dog if she on her side was ready to keep her word .
The princess was the first to speak .
She said that the queen had no right to marry without the consent of the nation , and that on so important an occasion the general council must be summoned .
The queen could not say anything against this statement ; but she ordered an apartment in the palace to be given to the man , and desired the council to meet on the following day .
Next day , accordingly , the council assembled in great state , and by the princess 's advice it was decided to offer the man a large sum of money for the dog , and should he refuse it , to banish him from the kingdom without seeing the queen again .
The man refused the price offered and left the hall .
The princess informed the queen of what had passed , and the queen approved of all , but added that as she was her own mistress she had made up her mind to abdicate her throne , and to wander through the world till she had found her little dog .
The princess was much alarmed by such a resolution , and implored the queen to change her mind .
Whilst they were discussing the subject , one of the chamberlains appeared to inform the queen that the bay was covered with ships .
The two sisters ran to the balcony , and saw a large fleet in full sail for the port .
In a little time they came to the conclusion that the ships must come from a friendly nation , as every vessel was decked with gay flags , streamers , and pennons , and the way was led by a small ship flying a great white flag of peace .
The queen sent a special messenger to the harbour , and was soon informed that the fleet belonged to the Prince of the Emerald Isles , who begged leave to land in her kingdom , and to present his humble respects to her .
The queen at once sent some of the court dignitaries to receive the prince and bid him welcome .
She awaited him seated on her throne , but rose on his appearance , and went a few steps to meet him ; then begged him to be seated , and for about an hour kept him in close conversation .
The prince was then conducted to a splendid suite of apartments , and the next day he asked for a private audience .
He was admitted to the queen 's own sitting-room , where she was sitting alone with her sister .
After the first greetings the prince informed the queen that he had some very strange things to tell her , which she only would know to be true .
` Madam , ' said he , ' I am a neighbour of the Queen of all the Isles ; and a small isthmus connects part of my states with hers .
One day , when hunting a stag , I had the misfortune to meet her , and not recognising her , I did not stop to salute her with all proper ceremony .
You , Madam , know better than anyone how revengeful she is , and that she is also a mistress of magic .
I learnt both facts to my cost .
The ground opened under my feet , and I soon found myself in a far distant region transformed into a little dog , under which shape I had the honour to meet your Majesty .
After six months , the queen 's vengeance not being yet satisfied , she further changed me into a hideous old man , and in this form I was so afraid of being unpleasant in your eyes , Madam , that I hid myself in the depths of the woods , where I spent three months more .
At the end of that time I was so fortunate as to meet a benevolent fairy who delivered me from the proud queen 's power , and told me all your adventures and where to find you .
I now come to offer you a heart which has been entirely yours , Madam , since first we met in the desert . '
A few days later a herald was sent through the kingdom to proclaim the joyful news of the marriage of the Queen of the Flowery Isles with the young prince .
They lived happily for many years , and ruled their people well .
As for the bad queen , whose vanity and jealousy had caused so much mischief , the Fairies took all her power away for a punishment .
-LSB- ` Cabinet des Fes . ' -RSB-
UDEA AND HER SEVEN BROTHERS Once upon a time there was a man and his wife who had seven boys .
The children lived in the open air and grew big and strong , and the six eldest spent part of every day hunting wild beasts .
The youngest did not care so much about sport , and he often stayed with his mother .
One morning , however , as the whole seven were going out for a long expedition , they said to their aunt , ` Dear aunt , if a baby sister comes into the world to-day , wave a white handkerchief , and we will return immediately ; but if it is only a boy , just brandish a sickle , and we will go on with what we are doing . '
Now the baby when it arrived really proved to be a girl , but as the aunt could not bear the boys , she thought it was a good opportunity to get rid of them .
So she waved the sickle .
And when the seven brothers saw the sign they said , ` Now we have nothing to go back for , ' and plunged deeper into the desert .
The little girl soon grew to be a big girl , and she was called by all her friends -LRB- though she did not know it -RRB- ` Udea , who had driven her seven brothers into strange lands . '
One day , when she had been quarrelling with her playmates , the oldest among them said to her , ` It is a pity you were born , as ever since , your brothers have been obliged to roam about the world . '
Udea did not answer , but went home to her mother and asked her , ` Have I really got brothers ? '
` Yes , ' replied her mother , ` seven of them .
But they went away the day you were born , and I have never heard of them since . '
Then the girl said , ' I will go and look for them till I find them . '
` My dear child , ' answered her mother , ` it is fifteen years since they left , and no man has seen them .
How will you know which way to go ? '
` Oh , I will follow them , north and south , east and west , and though I may travel far , yet some day I will find them . '
Then her mother said no more , but gave her a camel and some food , and a negro and his wife to take care of her , and she fastened a cowrie shell round the camel 's neck for a charm , and bade her daughter go in peace .
During the first day the party journeyed on without any adventures , but the second morning the negro said to the girl , ` Get down , and let the negress ride instead of you . '
` Mother , ' cried Udea .
` What is it ? '
asked her mother .
` Barka wants me to dismount from my camel . '
` Leave her alone , Barka , ' commanded the mother , and Barka did not dare to persist .
But on the following day he said again to Udea , ` Get down , and let the negress ride instead of you , ' and though Udea called to her mother she was too far away , and the mother never heard her .
Then the negro seized her roughly and threw her on the ground , and said to his wife , ` Climb up , ' and the negress climbed up , while the girl walked by the side .
She had meant to ride all the way on her camel as her feet were bare and the stones cut them till the blood came .
But she had to walk on till night , when they halted , and the next morning it was the same thing again .
Weary and bleeding the poor girl began to cry , and implored the negro to let her ride , if only for a little .
But he took no notice , except to bid her walk a little faster .
-LSB- Illustration : THE NEGRO COMPELS UDEA TO WALK -RSB- By-and-by they passed a caravan , and the negro stopped and asked the leader if they had come across seven young men , who were thought to be hunting somewhere about .
And the man answered , ` Go straight on , and by mid-day you will reach the castle where they live . '
When he heard this , the black melted some pitch in the sun , and smeared the girl with it , till she looked as much a negro as he did .
Next he bade his wife get down from the camel , and told Udea to mount , which she was thankful to do .
So they arrived at her brothers ' castle .
Leaving the camel kneeling at the entrance for Udea to dismount , the negro knocked loudly at the door , which was opened by the youngest brother , all the others being away hunting .
He did not of course recognise Udea , but he knew the negro and his wife , and welcomed them gladly , adding , ` But who does the other negress belong to ? '
` Oh , that is your sister ! '
said they .
` My sister !
but she is coal black ! '
` That may be , but she is your sister for all that . '
The young man asked no more questions , but took them into the castle , and he himself waited outside till his brothers came home .
As soon as they were alone , the negro whispered to Udea , ` If you dare to tell your brothers that I made you walk , or that I smeared you with pitch , I will kill you . '
` Oh , I will be sure to say nothing , ' replied the girl , trembling , and at that moment the six elder brothers appeared in sight . '
I have some good news for you , ' said the youngest , hastening to meet them ; ` our sister is here ! '
` Nonsense , ' they answered .
` We have no sister ; you know the child that was born was a boy . '
` But that was not true , ' replied he , ` and here she is with the negro and his wife .
Only -- she too is black , ' he added softly , but his brothers did not hear him , and pushed past joyfully .
` How are you , good old Barka ? '
they said to the negro ; ` and how comes it that we never knew that we had a sister till now ? '
and they greeted Udea warmly , while she shed tears of relief and gladness .
The next morning they all agreed that they would not go out hunting .
And the eldest brother took Udea on his knee , and she combed his hair and talked to him of their home till the tears ran down his cheeks and dropped on her bare arm .
And where the tears fell a white mark was made .
Then the brother took a cloth and rubbed the place , and he saw that she was not black at all .
` Tell me , who painted you over like this ? '
cried he . '
I am afraid to tell you , ' sobbed the girl , ` the negro will kill me . '
` Afraid !
and with seven brothers ! '
` Well , I will tell you then , ' she answered .
` The negro forced me to dismount from the camel and let his wife ride instead .
And the stones cut my feet till they bled and I had to bind them .
And after that , when we heard your castle was near by , he took pitch and smeared my body with it . '
Then the brother rushed in wrath from the room , and seizing his sword , cut off first the negro 's head and then his wife 's .
He next brought in some warm water , and washed his sister all over , till her skin was white and shining again .
` Ah , now we see that you are our sister ! '
they all said .
` What fools the negro must have thought us , to believe for an instant that we could have a sister who was black ! '
And all that day and the next they remained in the castle .
But on the third morning they said to their sister : ` Dear sister , you must lock yourself into this castle , with only the cat for company .
And be very careful never to eat anything which she does not eat too .
You must be sure to give her a bit of everything .
In seven days we shall be back again . '
` All right , ' she answered , and locked herself into the castle with the cat .
On the eighth day the brothers came home .
` How are you ? '
they asked .
` You have not been anxious ? '
` No , why should I be anxious ?
The gates were fast locked , and in the castle are seven doors , and the seventh is of iron .
What is there to frighten me ? '
` No one will try to hurt us , ' said the brothers , ` for they fear us greatly .
But for yourself , we implore you to do nothing without consulting the cat , who has grown up in the house , and take care never to neglect her advice . '
` All right , ' replied Udea , ` and whatever I eat she shall have half . '
` Capital !
and if ever you are in danger the cat will come and tell us -- only elves and pigeons , which fly round your window , know where to find us . '
` This is the first I have heard of the pigeons , ' said Udea .
` Why did you not speak of them before ? '
` We always leave them food and water for seven days , ' replied the brothers .
` Ah , ' sighed the girl , ` if I had only known , I would have given them fresh food and fresh water ; for after seven days anything becomes bad .
Would it not be better if I fed them every day ? '
` Much better , ' said they , ` and we shall feel any kindnesses you do towards the cat or the pigeons exactly as if they were shown to ourselves . '
` Set your minds at ease , ' answered the girl , ' I will treat them as if they were my brothers . '
That night the brothers slept in the castle , but after breakfast next morning they buckled on their weapons and mounted their horses , and rode off to their hunting grounds , calling out to their sister , ` Mind you let nobody in till we come back . '
` Very well , ' cried she , and kept the doors carefully locked for seven days and on the eighth the brothers returned as before .
Then , after spending one evening with her , they departed as soon as they had done breakfast .
Directly they were out of sight Udea began to clean the house , and among the dust she found a bean which she ate .
` What are you eating ? '
asked the cat .
` Nothing , ' said she .
` Open your mouth , and let me see , ' The girl did as she was told , and then the cat said ` Why did you not give me half ? ' '
I forgot , ' answered she , ` but there are plenty of beans about , you can have as many as you like . '
` No , that wo n't do .
I want half of that particular bean . '
` But how can I give it you ?
I tell you I have eaten it .
I can roast you a hundred others . '
` No , I want half of that one . '
` Oh !
do as you like , only go away ! '
cried she .
So the cat ran straight to the kitchen fire , and spit on it and put it out , and when Udea came to cook the supper she had nothing to light it with .
` Why did you put the fire out ? '
asked she .
` Just to show you how nicely you would be able to cook the supper .
Did n't you tell me to do what I liked ? '
The girl left the kitchen and climbed up on the roof of the castle and looked out .
Far , far away , so far that she could hardly see it , was the glow of a fire . '
I will go and fetch a burning coal from there and light my fire , ' thought she , and opened the door of the castle .
When she reached the place where the fire was kindled , a hideous man-eater was crouching over it .
` Peace be with you , grandfather , ' said she .
` The same to you , ' replied the man-eater .
` What brings you here , Udea ? ' '
I came to ask for a lump of burning coal , to light my fire with . '
-LSB- Illustration : THE MANEATER -RSB- ` Do you want a big lump or a little lump ? '
` Why , what difference does it make ? '
said she .
` If you have a big lump you must give me a strip of your skin from your ear to your thumb , and if you have a little lump , you must give me a strip from your ear to your little finger . '
Udea , who thought that one sounded as bad as the other , said she would take the big lump , and when the man-eater had cut the skin , she went home again .
And as she hastened on a raven beheld the blood on the ground , and plastered it with earth , and stayed by her till she reached the castle .
And as she entered the door he flew past , and she shrieked from fright , for up to that moment she had not seen him .
In her terror she called after him , ` May you get the same start as you have given me ! '
` Why should you wish me harm , ' asked the raven , pausing in his flight , ` when I have done you a service ? '
` What service have you done me ? '
said she .
` Oh , you shall soon see , ' replied the raven , and with his bill he scraped away all the earth he had smeared over the blood and then flew away .
In the night the man-eater got up , and followed the blood till he came to Udea 's castle .
He entered through the gate which she had left open , and went on till he reached the inside of the house .
But here he was stopped by the seven doors , six of wood and one of iron , and all fast locked .
And he called through them ` Oh Udea , what did you see your grandfather doing ? ' '
I saw him spread silk under him , and silk over him , and lay himself down in a four-post bed . '
When he heard that , the man-eater broke in one door , and laughed and went away .
And the second night he came back , and asked her again what she had seen her grandfather doing , and she answered him as before , and he broke in another door , and laughed and went away , and so each night till he reached the seventh door .
Then the maiden wrote a letter to her brothers , and bound it round the neck of a pigeon , and said to it , ` Oh , thou pigeon that servedst my father and my grandfather , carry this letter to my brothers , and come back at once . '
And the pigeon flew away .
It flew and it flew and it flew till it found the brothers .
The eldest unfastened the letter from the pigeon 's neck , and read what his sister had written : ' I am in a great strait , my brothers .
If you do not rescue me to-night , to-morrow I shall be no longer living , for the man-eater has broken open six doors , and only the iron door is left .
So haste , haste , post haste . '
` Quick , quick !
my brothers , ' cried he .
` What is the matter ? '
asked they .
` If we can not reach our sister to-night , to-morrow she will be the prey of the man-eater . '
And without more words they sprang on their horses , and rode like the wind .
The gate of the castle was thrown down , and they entered the court and called loudly to their sister .
But the poor girl was so ill with fear and anxiety that she could not even speak .
Then the brothers dismounted and passed through the six open doors , till they stood before the iron one , which was still shut .
` Udea , open ! '
they cried , ` it is only your brothers ! '
And she arose and unlocked the door , and throwing herself on the neck of the eldest burst into tears .
` Tell us what has happened , ' he said , ` and how the man-eater traced you here . '
` It is all the cat 's fault , ' replied Udea .
` She put out my fire so that I could not cook .
All about a bean !
I ate one and forgot to give her any of it . '
` But we told you so particularly , ' said the eldest brother , ` never to eat anything without sharing it with the cat . '
` Yes , but I tell you I forgot , ' answered Udea .
` Does the man-eater come here every night ? '
asked the brothers .
` Every night , ' said Udea , ` and he breaks one door in and then goes away . '
Then all the brothers cried together , ` We will dig a great hole , and fill it with burning wood , and spread a covering over the top ; and when the man-eater arrives we will push him into it . '
So they all set to work , and prepared the great hole , and set fire to the wood , till it was reduced to a mass of glowing charcoal .
And when the man-eater came , and called as usual , ` Udea , what did you see your grandfather doing ? '
she answered , ' I saw him pull off the ass 's skin and devour the ass , and he fell in the fire , and the fire burned him up . '
Then the man-eater was filled with rage , and he flung himself upon the iron door and burst it in .
On the other side stood Udea 's seven brothers , who said , ` Come , rest yourself a little on this mat . '
And the man-eater sat down , and he fell right into the burning pit which was under the mat , and they heaped on more wood , till nothing was left of him , not even a bone .
Only one of his finger-nails was blown away , and fell into an upper chamber where Udea was standing , and stuck under one of the nails of her own fingers .
And she sank lifeless to the earth .
-LSB- Illustration : UDEA FOUND LIFELESS BY HER SEVEN BROTHERS -RSB- Meanwhile her brothers sat below waiting for her and wondering why she did not come .
` What can have happened to her ! '
exclaimed the eldest brother .
` Perhaps she has fallen into the fire , too . '
So one of the others ran upstairs and found his sister stretched on the floor .
` Udea !
Udea ! '
he cried , but she did not move or reply .
Then he saw that she was dead , and rushed down to his brothers in the courtyard and called out , ` Come quickly , our sister is dead ! '
In a moment they were all beside her and knew that it was true , and they made a bier and laid her on it , and placed her across a camel , and said to the camel , ` Take her to her mother , but be careful not to halt by the way , and let no man capture you , and see you kneel down before no man , save him who shall say `` string '' -LSB- 1 -RSB- to you .
But to him who says `` string , '' then kneel . '
-LSB- Footnote 1 : ` Riemen . ' -RSB-
So the camel started , and when it had accomplished half its journey it met three men , who ran after it in order to catch it ; but they could not .
Then they cried ` Stop ! '
but the camel only went the faster .
The three men panted behind till one said to the others , ` Wait a minute !
The string of my sandal is broken ! '
The camel caught the word ` string ' and knelt down at once , and the men came up and found a dead girl lying on a bier , with a ring on her finger .
And as one of the young men took hold of her hand to pull off the ring , he knocked out the man-eater 's finger-nail , which had stuck there , and the maiden sat up and said , ` Let him live who gave me life , and slay him who slew me ! '
And when the camel heard the maiden speak , it turned and carried her back to her brothers .
Now the brothers were still seated in the court bewailing their sister , and their eyes were dim with weeping so that they could hardly see .
And when the camel stood before them they said , ` Perhaps it has brought back our sister ! '
and rose to give it a beating .
But the camel knelt down and the girl dismounted , and they flung themselves on her neck and wept more than ever for gladness .
` Tell me , ' said the eldest , as soon as he could speak , ` how it all came about , and what killed you . ' '
I was waiting in the upper chamber , ' said she , ` and a nail of the man-eater 's stuck under my nail , and I fell dead upon the ground .
That is all I know . '
` But who pulled out the nail ? '
asked he . '
A man took hold of my hand and tried to pull off my ring , and the nail jumped out and I was alive again .
And when the camel heard me say `` Let him live who gave me life , slay him who slew me ! ''
it turned and brought me back to the castle .
That is my story . '
She was silent and the eldest brother spoke .
` Will you listen to what I have to say , my brothers ? '
And they replied , ` How should we not hear you ?
Are you not our father as well as our brother ? '
` Then this is my advice .
Let us take our sister back to our father and mother , that we may see them once more before they die . '
And the young men agreed , and they mounted their horses and placed their sister in a litter on the camel .
So they set out .
At the end of five days ' journey they reached the old home where their father and mother dwelt alone .
And the heart of their father rejoiced , and he said to them , ` Dear sons , why did you go away and leave your mother and me to weep for you night and day ? '
` Dear father , ' answered the son , ` let us rest a little now , and then I will tell you everything from the beginning . '
` All right , ' replied the father , and waited patiently for three days .
And on the morning of the fourth day the eldest brother said , ` Dear father , would you like to hear our adventures ? '
` Certainly I should ! '
` Well , it was our aunt who was the cause of our leaving home , for we agreed that if the baby was a sister she should wave a white handkerchief , and if it was a brother , she should brandish a sickle , for then there would be nothing to come back for , and we might wander far away .
Now our aunt could not bear us , and hated us to live in the same house with her , so she brandished the sickle , and we went away .
That is all our story . '
And that is all this story .
-LSB- Mrchen und Gedichte aus der Stadt Tripolis .
Von Hans Stumme . -RSB-
THE WHITE WOLF Once upon a time there was a king who had three daughters ; they were all beautiful , but the youngest was the fairest of the three .
Now it happened that one day their father had to set out for a tour in a distant part of his kingdom .
Before he left , his youngest daughter made him promise to bring her back a wreath of wild flowers .
When the king was ready to return to his palace , he bethought himself that he would like to take home presents to each of his three daughters ; so he went into a jeweller 's shop , and bought a beautiful necklace for the eldest princess ; then he went to a rich merchant 's and bought a dress embroidered in gold and silver thread for the second princess , but in none of the flower shops nor in the market could he find the wreath of wild flowers that his youngest daughter had set her heart on .
So he had to set out on his homeward way without it .
Now his journey led him through a thick forest .
While he was still about four miles distant from his palace , he noticed a white wolf squatting on the roadside , and , behold !
on the head of the wolf , there was a wreath of wild flowers .
Then the king called to the coachman , and ordered him to get down from his seat and fetch him the wreath from the wolf 's head .
But the wolf heard the order and said : ` My lord and king , I will let you have the wreath , but I must have something in return . '
` What do you want ? '
answered the king . '
I will gladly give you rich treasure in exchange for it . ' '
I do not want rich treasure , ' replied the wolf .
` Only promise to give me the first thing that meets you on your way to your castle .
In three days I shall come and fetch it . '
And the king thought to himself : ' I am still a good long way from home , I am sure to meet a wild animal or a bird on the road , it will be quite safe to promise . '
So he consented , and carried the wreath away with him .
But all along the road he met no living creature till he turned into the palace gates , where his youngest daughter was waiting to welcome him home .
That evening the king was very sad , remembering his promise ; and when he told the queen what had happened , she too shed bitter tears .
And the youngest princess asked them why they both looked so sad , and why they wept .
Then her father told her what a price he would have to pay for the wreath of wild flowers he had brought home to her , for in three days a white wolf would come and claim her and carry her away , and they would never see her again .
But the queen thought and thought , and at last she hit upon a plan .
There was in the palace a servant maid the same age and the same height as the princess , and the queen dressed her up in a beautiful dress belonging to her daughter , and determined to give her to the white wolf , who would never know the difference .
On the third day the wolf strode into the palace yard and up the great stairs , to the room where the king and queen were seated . '
I have come to claim your promise , ' he said .
` Give me your youngest daughter . '
Then they led the servant maid up to him , and he said to her : ` You must mount on my back , and I will take you to my castle . '
And with these words he swung her on to his back and left the palace .
When they reached the place where he had met the king and given him the wreath of wild flowers , he stopped , and told her to dismount that they might rest a little .
So they sat down by the roadside . '
I wonder , ' said the wolf , ` what your father would do if this forest belonged to him ? '
And the girl answered : ` My father is a poor man , so he would cut down the trees , and saw them into planks , and he would sell the planks , and we should never be poor again ; but would always have enough to eat . '
Then the wolf knew that he had not got the real princess , and he swung the servant-maid on to his back and carried her to the castle .
And he strode angrily into the king 's chamber , and spoke .
` Give me the real princess at once .
If you deceive me again I will cause such a storm to burst over your palace that the walls will fall in , and you will all be buried in the ruins . '
Then the king and the queen wept , but they saw there was no escape .
So they sent for their youngest daughter , and the king said to her : ` Dearest child , you must go with the white wolf , for I promised you to him , and I must keep my word . '
So the princess got ready to leave her home ; but first she went to her room to fetch her wreath of wild flowers , which she took with her .
Then the white wolf swung her on his back and bore her away .
But when they came to the place where he had rested with the servant-maid , he told her to dismount that they might rest for a little at the roadside .
Then he turned to her and said : ' I wonder what your father would do if this forest belonged to him ? '
-LSB- Illustration : THE  WHITE  WOLF  ASKS  THE  PRINCESS  A  QUESTION  IN  THE  WOOD -RSB- And the princess answered : ` My father would cut down the trees and turn it into a beautiful park and gardens , and he and his courtiers would come and wander among the glades in the summer time . '
` This is the real princess , ' said the wolf to himself .
But aloud he said : ` Mount once more on my back , and I will bear you to my castle . '
And when she was seated on his back he set out through the woods , and he ran , and ran , and ran , till at last he stopped in front of a stately courtyard , with massive gates .
` This is a beautiful castle , ' said the princess , as the gates swung back and she stepped inside .
` If only I were not so far away from my father and my mother ! '
But the wolf answered : ` At the end of a year we will pay a visit to your father and mother . '
And at these words the white furry skin slipped from his back , and the princess saw that he was not a wolf at all , but a beautiful youth , tall and stately ; and he gave her his hand , and led her up the castle stairs .
One day , at the end of half a year , he came into her room and said : ` My dear one , you must get ready for a wedding .
Your eldest sister is going to be married , and I will take you to your father 's palace .
When the wedding is over , I shall come and fetch you home .
I will whistle outside the gate , and when you hear me , pay no heed to what your father or mother say , leave your dancing and feasting , and come to me at once ; for if I have to leave without you , you will never find your way back alone through the forests . '
When the princess was ready to start , she found that he had put on his white fur skin , and was changed back into the wolf ; and he swung her on to his back , and set out with her to her father 's palace , where he left her , while he himself returned home alone .
But , in the evening , he went back to fetch her , and , standing outside the palace gate , he gave a long , loud whistle .
In the midst of her dancing the princess heard the sound , and at once she went to him , and he swung her on his back and bore her away to his castle .
Again , at the end of half a year , the prince came into her room , as the white wolf , and said : ` Dear heart , you must prepare for the wedding of your second sister .
I will take you to your father 's palace to-day , and we will remain there together till to-morrow morning . '
So they went together to the wedding .
In the evening , when the two were alone together , he dropped his fur skin , and , ceasing to be a wolf , became a prince again .
Now they did not know that the princess 's mother was hidden in the room .
When she saw the white skin lying on the floor , she crept out of the room , and sent a servant to fetch the skin and to burn it in the kitchen fire .
The moment the flames touched the skin there was a fearful clap of thunder heard , and the prince disappeared out of the palace gate in a whirlwind , and returned to his palace alone .
But the princess was heart-broken , and spent the night weeping bitterly .
Next morning she set out to find her way back to the castle , but she wandered through the woods and forests , and she could find no path or track to guide her .
For fourteen days she roamed in the forest , sleeping under the trees , and living upon wild berries and roots , and at last she reached a little house .
She opened the door and went in , and found the wind seated in the room all by himself , and she spoke to the wind and said : ` Wind , have you seen the white wolf ? '
And the wind answered : ` All day and all night I have been blowing round the world , and I have only just come home ; but I have not seen him . '
But he gave her a pair of shoes , in which , he told her , she would be able to walk a hundred miles with every step , Then she walked through the air till she reached a star , and she said : ` Tell me , star , have you seen the white wolf ? '
And the star answered : ' I have been shining all night , and I have not seen him . '
But the star gave her a pair of shoes , and told her that if she put them on she would be able to walk two hundred miles at a stride .
So she drew them on , and she walked to the moon , and she said : ` Dear moon , have you not seen the white wolf ? '
But the moon answered , ` All night long I have been sailing through the heavens , and I have only just come home ; but I did not see him . '
But he gave her a pair of shoes , in which she would be able to cover four hundred miles with every stride .
So she went to the sun , and said : ` Dear sun , have you seen the white wolf ? '
And the sun answered , ` Yes , I have seen him , and he has chosen another bride , for he thought you had left him , and would never return , and he is preparing for the wedding .
But I will help you .
Here are a pair of shoes .
If you put these on you will be able to walk on glass or ice , and to climb the steepest places .
And here is a spinning-wheel , with which you will be able to spin moss into silk .
When you leave me you will reach a glass mountain .
Put on the shoes that I have given you and with them you will be able to climb it quite easily .
At the summit you will find the palace of the white wolf . '
Then the princess set out , and before long she reached the glass mountain , and at the summit she found the white wolf 's palace , as the sun had said .
But no one recognised her , as she had disguised herself as an old woman , and had wound a shawl round her head .
Great preparations were going on in the palace for the wedding , which was to take place next day .
Then the princess , still disguised as an old woman , took out her spinning-wheel , and began to spin moss into silk .
And as she spun the new bride passed by , and seeing the moss turn into silk , she said to the old woman : ` Little mother , I wish you would give me that spinning-wheel . '
-LSB- Illustration : The Bride wishes to buy the Spinning-Wheel -RSB- And the princess answered , ' I will give it to you if you will allow me to sleep to-night on the mat outside the prince 's door . '
And the bride replied , ` Yes , you may sleep on the mat outside the door . '
So the princess gave her the spinning-wheel .
And that night , winding the shawl all round her , so that no one could recognise her , she lay down on the mat outside the white wolf 's door .
And when everyone in the palace was asleep she began to tell the whole of her story .
She told how she had been one of three sisters , and that she had been the youngest and the fairest of the three , and that her father had betrothed her to a white wolf .
And she told how she had gone first to the wedding of one sister , and then with her husband to the wedding of the other sister , and how her mother had ordered the servant to throw the white fur skin into the kitchen fire .
And then she told of her wanderings through the forest ; and of how she had sought the white wolf weeping ; and how the wind and star and moon and sun had befriended her , and had helped her to reach his palace .
And when the white wolf heard all the story , he knew that it was his first wife , who had sought him , and had found him , after such great dangers and difficulties .
But he said nothing , for he waited till the next day , when many guests -- kings and princes from far countries -- were coming to his wedding .
Then , when all the guests were assembled in the banqueting hall , he spoke to them and said : ` Hearken to me , ye kings and princes , for I have something to tell you .
I had lost the key of my treasure casket , so I ordered a new one to be made ; but I have since found the old one .
Now , which of these keys is the better ? '
Then all the kings and royal guests answered : ` Certainly the old key is better than the new one . '
` Then , ' said the wolf , ` if that is so , my former bride is better than my new one . '
And he sent for the new bride , and he gave her in marriage to one of the princes who was present , and then he turned to his guests , and said : ` And here is my former bride ' -- and the beautiful princess was led into the room and seated beside him on his throne . '
I thought she had forgotten me , and that she would never return .
But she has sought me everywhere , and now we are together once more we shall never part again . '
MOHAMMED WITH THE MAGIC FINGER Once upon a time , there lived a woman who had a son and a daughter .
One morning she said to them : ' I have heard of a town where there is no such thing as death : let us go and dwell there . '
So she broke up her house , and went away with her son and daughter .
When she reached the city , the first thing she did was to look about and see if there was any churchyard , and when she found none , she exclaimed , ` This is a delightful spot .
We will stay here for ever . '
By-and-by , her son grew to be a man , and he took for a wife a girl who had been born in the town .
But after a little while he grew restless , and went away on his travels , leaving his mother , his wife , and his sister behind him .
He had not been gone many weeks when one evening his mother said , ' I am not well , my head aches dreadfully . '
` What did you say ? '
inquired her daughter-in-law .
` My head feels ready to split , ' replied the old woman .
The daughter-in-law asked no more questions , but left the house , and went in haste to some butchers in the next street . '
I have got a woman to sell ; what will you give me for her ? '
said she .
The butchers answered that they must see the woman first , and they all returned together .
Then the butchers took the woman and told her they must kill her .
` But why ? '
she asked .
` Because , ' they said , ` it is always our custom that when persons are ill and complain of their head they should be killed at once .
It is a much better way than leaving them to die a natural death . '
` Very well , ' replied the woman .
` But leave , I pray you , my lungs and my liver untouched , till my son comes back .
Then give both to him . '
But the men took them out at once , and gave them to the daughter-in-law , saying : ` Put away these things till your husband returns . '
And the daughter-in-law took them , and hid them in a secret place .
When the old woman 's daughter , who had been in the woods , heard that her mother had been killed while she was out , she was filled with fright , and ran away as fast as she could .
At last she reached a lonely spot far from the town , where she thought she was safe , and sat down on a stone , and wept bitterly .
As she was sitting , sobbing , a man passed by .
` What is the matter , little girl ?
Answer me !
I will be your friend . '
` Ah , sir , they have killed my mother ; my brother is far away , and I have nobody . '
` Will you come with me ? '
asked the man .
` Thankfully , ' said she , and he led her down , down , under the earth , till they reached a great city .
Then he married her , and in course of time she had a son .
And the baby was known throughout the city as ` Mohammed with the magic finger , ' because , whenever he stuck out his little finger , he was able to see anything that was happening for as far as two days ' distance .
By-and-by , as the boy was growing bigger , his uncle returned from his long journey , and went straight to his wife .
` Where are my mother and sister ? '
he asked ; but his wife answered ; ` Have something to eat first , and then I will tell you . '
But he replied : ` How can I eat till I know what has become of them ? '
Then she fetched , from the upper chamber , a box full of money , which she laid before him , saying , ` That is the price of your mother .
She sold well . '
` What do you mean ? '
he gasped .
` Oh , your mother complained one day that her head was aching , so I got in two butchers and they agreed to take her .
However , I have got her lungs and liver hidden , till you came back , in a safe place . '
` And my sister ? '
` Well , while the people were chopping up your mother she ran away , and I heard no more of her . '
` Give me my mother 's liver and lungs , ' said the young man .
And she gave them to him .
Then he put them in his pocket , and went away , saying : ' I can stay no longer in this horrible town .
I go to seek my sister . '
Now , one day , the little boy stretched out his finger and said to his mother , ` My uncle is coming ! '
-LSB- Illustration : MY UNCLE IS COMING -RSB- ` Where is he ? '
she asked .
` He is still two days ' journey off : looking for us ; but he will soon be here . '
And in two days , as the boy had foretold , the uncle had found the hole in the earth , and arrived at the gate of the city .
All his money was spent , and not knowing where his sister lived , he began to beg of all the people he saw .
` Here comes my uncle , ' called out the little boy .
` Where ? '
asked his mother .
` Here at the house door ; ' and the woman ran out and embraced him , and wept over him .
When they could both speak , he said : ` My sister , were you by when they killed my mother ? ' '
I was absent when they slew her , ' replied she , ` and as I could do nothing , I ran away .
But you , my brother , how did you get here ? '
` By chance , ' he said , ` after I had wandered far ; but I did not know I should find you ! '
` My little boy told me you were coming , ' she explained , ` when you were yet two days distant ; he alone of all men has that great gift . '
But she did not tell him that her husband could change himself into a serpent , a dog , or a monster , whenever he pleased .
He was a very rich man , and possessed large herds of camels , goats , sheep , cattle , horses and asses ; all the best of their kind .
And the next morning , the sister said : ` Dear brother , go and watch our sheep , and when you are thirsty , drink their milk ! '
` Very well , ' answered he , and he went .
Soon after , she said again , ` Dear brother , go and watch our goats . '
` But why ?
I like tending sheep better ! '
` Oh , it is much nicer to be a goatherd , ' she said ; so he took the goats out .
When he was gone , she said to her husband , ` You must kill my brother , for I can not have him living here with me . '
` But , my dear , why should I ?
He has done me no harm . ' '
I wish you to kill him , ' she answered , ` or if not I will leave . '
` Oh , all right , then , ' said he ; ` to-morrow I will change myself into a serpent , and hide myself in the date barrel ; and when he comes to fetch dates I will sting him in the hand . '
` That will do very well , ' said she .
When the sun was up next day , she called to her brother , ` Go and mind the goats . '
` Yes , of course , ' he replied ; but the little boy called out : ` Uncle , I want to come with you . '
` Delighted , ' said the uncle , and they started together .
After they had got out of sight of the house the boy said to him , ` Dear uncle , my father is going to kill you .
He has changed himself into a serpent , and has hidden himself in the date barrel .
My mother has told him to do it . '
` And what am I to do ? '
asked the uncle . '
I will tell you .
When we bring the goats back to the house , and my mother says to you , `` I am sure you must be hungry : get a few dates out of the cask , '' just say to me , `` I am not feeling very well , Mohammed , you go and get them for me . '' '
So when they reached the house the sister came out to meet them , saying , ` Dear brother , you must certainly be hungry : go and get a few dates . '
But he answered , ' I am not feeling very well .
Mohammed , you go and get them for me . '
` Of course I will , ' replied the little boy , and ran at once to the cask .
` No , no , ' his mother called after him ; ` come here directly !
Let your uncle fetch them himself ! '
But the boy would not listen , and crying out to her , ' I would rather get them , ' thrust his hand into the date cask .
Instead of the fruit , it struck against something cold and slimy , and he whispered softly , ` Keep still ; it is I , your son ! '
Then he picked up his dates and went away to his uncle .
` Here they are , dear uncle ; eat as many as you want . '
And his uncle ate them .
When he saw that the uncle did not mean to come near the cask , the serpent crawled out and regained his proper shape . '
I am thankful I did not kill him , ' he said to his wife ; ` for , after all , he is my brother-in-law , and it would have been a great sin ! '
` Either you kill him or I leave you , ' said she .
` Well , well ! '
sighed the man , ` to-morrow I will do it . '
The woman let that night go by without doing anything further , but at daybreak she said to her brother , ` Get up , brother ; it is time to take the goats to pasture ! '
` All right , ' cried he . '
I will come with you , uncle , ' called out the little boy .
` Yes , come along , ' replied he .
But the mother ran up , saying , ` The child must not go out in this cold or he will be ill ; ' to which he only answered , ` Nonsense !
I am going , so it is no use your talking !
I am going !
I am !
I am ! '
` Then go ! '
she said .
And so they started , driving the goats in front of them .
When they reached the pasture the boy said to his uncle : ` Dear uncle , this night my father means to kill you .
While we are away he will creep into your room and hide in the straw .
Directly we get home my mother will say to you , `` Take that straw and give it to the sheep , '' and , if you do , he will bite you . '
` Then what am I to do ? '
asked the man .
` Oh , do not be afraid , dear uncle !
I will kill my father myself . '
` All right , ' replied the uncle .
As they drove back the goats towards the house , the sister cried : ` Be quick , dear brother , go and get me some straw for the sheep . '
` Let me go , ' said the boy .
` You are not big enough ; your uncle will get it , ' replied she .
` We will both get it , ' answered the boy ; ` come , uncle , let us go and fetch that straw ! '
` All right , ' replied the uncle , and they went to the door of the room .
` It seems very dark , ' said the boy ; ' I must go and get a light ; ' and when he came back with one , he set fire to the straw , and the serpent was burnt .
Then the mother broke into sobs and tears .
` Oh , you wretched boy !
What have you done ?
Your father was in that straw , and you have killed him ! '
` Now , how was I to know that my father was lying in that straw , instead of in the kitchen ? '
said the boy .
But his mother only wept the more , and sobbed out , ` From this day you have no father .
You must do without him as best you can ! '
` Why did you marry a serpent ? '
asked the boy . '
I thought he was a man !
How did he learn those odd tricks ? '
As the sun rose , she woke her brother , and said , ` Go and take the goats to pasture ! ' '
I will come too , ' said the little boy .
` Go then ! '
said his mother , and they went together .
On the way the boy began : ` Dear uncle , this night my mother means to kill both of us , by poisoning us with the bones of the serpent , which she will grind to powder and sprinkle in our food . '
` And what are we to do ? '
asked the uncle . '
I will kill her , dear uncle .
I do not want either a father or a mother like that ! '
When they came home in the evening they saw the woman preparing supper , and secretly scattering the powdered bones of the serpent on one side of the dish .
On the other , where she meant to eat herself , there was no poison .
And the boy whispered to his uncle , ` Dear uncle , be sure you eat from the same side of the dish as I do ! '
` All right , ' said the uncle .
So they all three sat down to the table , but before they helped themselves the boy said , ' I am thirsty , mother ; will you get me some milk ? '
` Very well , ' said she , ` but you had better begin your supper . '
And when she came back with the milk they were both eating busily .
` Sit down and have something too , ' said the boy , and she sat down and helped herself from the dish , but at the very first moment she sank dead upon the ground .
` She has got what she meant for us , ' observed the boy ; ` and now we will sell all the sheep and cattle . '
So the sheep and cattle were sold , and the uncle and nephew took the money and went to see the world .
For ten days they travelled through the desert , and then they came to a place where the road parted in two .
` Uncle ! '
said the boy .
` Well , what is it ? '
replied he .
` You see these two roads ?
You must take one , and I the other ; for the time has come when we must part . '
But the uncle cried , ` No , no , my boy , we will keep together always . '
` Alas !
that can not be , ' said the boy ; ` so tell me which way you will go . ' '
I will go to the west , ' said the uncle .
` One word before I leave you , ' continued the boy .
` Beware of any man who has red hair and blue eyes .
Take no service under him . '
` All right , ' replied the uncle , and they parted .
For three days the man wandered on without any food , till he was very hungry .
Then , when he was almost fainting , a stranger met him and said , ` Will you work for me ? '
` By contract ? '
asked the man .
` Yes , by contract , ' replied the stranger , ` and whichever of us breaks it , shall have a strip of skin taken from his body . '
` All right , ' replied the man ; ` what shall I have to do ? '
` Every day you must take the sheep out to pasture , and carry my old mother on your shoulders , taking great care her feet shall never touch the ground .
And , besides that , you must catch , every evening , seven singing birds for my seven sons . '
` That is easily done , ' said the man .
Then they went back together , and the stranger said , ` Here are your sheep : and now stoop down , and let my mother climb on your back . '
` Very good , ' answered Mohammed 's uncle .
The new shepherd did as he was told , and returned in the evening with the old woman on his back , and the seven singing birds in his pocket , which he gave to the seven boys , when they came to meet him .
So the days passed , each one exactly like the other .
At last , one night , he began to weep , and cried : ` Oh , what have I done , that I should have to perform such hateful tasks ? '
And his nephew Mohammed saw him from afar , and thought to himself , ` My uncle is in trouble -- I must go and help him ; ' and the next morning he went to his master and said : ` Dear master , I must go to my uncle , and I wish to send him here instead of myself , while I serve under his master .
And that you may know it is he and no other man , I will give him my staff , and put my mantle on him . '
` All right , ' said the master .
Mohammed set out on his journey , and in two days he arrived at the place where his uncle was standing with the old woman on his back , trying to catch the birds as they flew past .
And Mohammed touched him on the arm , and spoke : ` Dear uncle , did I not warn you never to take service under any blue-eyed red-haired man ? '
-LSB- Illustration :  HOW  MOHAMMED  FINDS  HIS  UNCLE  -RSB- ` But what could I do ? '
asked the uncle . '
I was hungry , and he passed , and we signed a contract . '
` Give the contract to me ! '
said the young man .
` Here it is , ' replied the uncle , holding it out .
` Now , ' continued Mohammed , ` let the old woman get down from your back . '
` Oh no , I must n't do that ! '
cried he .
But the nephew paid no attention , and went on talking : ` Do not worry yourself about the future .
I see my way out of it all .
And , first , you must take my stick and my mantle and leave this place .
After two days ' journey , straight before you , you will come to some tents which are inhabited by shepherds .
Go in there , and wait . '
` All right ! '
answered the uncle .
Then Mohammed with the Magic Finger picked up a stick and struck the old woman with it , saying , ` Get down , and look after the sheep ; I want to go to sleep . '
` Oh , certainly ! '
replied she .
So Mohammed lay down comfortably under a tree and slept till evening .
Towards sunset he woke up and said to the old woman : ` Where are the singing birds which you have got to catch ? '
` You never told me anything about that , ' replied she .
` Oh , did n't I ? '
he answered .
` Well , it is part of your business , and if you do n't do it , I shall just kill you . '
` Of course I will catch them ! '
cried she in a hurry , and ran about the bushes after the birds , till thorns pierced her foot , and she shrieked from pain and exclaimed , ` Oh dear , how unlucky I am !
and how abominably this man is treating me ! '
However , at last she managed to catch the seven birds , and brought them to Mohammed , saying , ` Here they are ! '
` Then now we will go back to the house , ' said he .
When they had gone some way he turned to her sharply : ` Be quick and drive the sheep home , for I do not know where their fold is . '
And she drove them before her .
By-and-by the young man spoke : ` Look here , old hag ; if you say anything to your son about my having struck you , or about my not being the old shepherd , I 'll kill you ! '
` Oh , no , of course I wo n't say anything ! '
When they got back , the son said to his mother : ` That is a good shepherd I 've got , is n't he ? '
` Oh , a splendid shepherd ! '
answered she .
` Why , look how fat the sheep are , and how much milk they give ! '
` Yes , indeed ! '
replied the son , as he rose to get supper for his mother and the shepherd .
In the time of Mohammed 's uncle , the shepherd had had nothing to eat but the scraps left by the old woman ; but the new shepherd was not going to be content with that .
` You will not touch the food till I have had as much as I want , ' whispered he .
` Very good ! '
replied she .
And when he had had enough , he said : ` Now , eat ! '
But she wept , and cried : ` That was not written in your contract .
You were only to have what I left ! '
` If you say a word more , I will kill you ! '
said he .
The next day he took the old woman on his back , and drove the sheep in front of him till he was some distance from the house , when he let her fall , and said : ` Quick !
go and mind the sheep ! '
Then he took a ram , and killed it .
He lit a fire and broiled some of its flesh , and called to the old woman : ` Come and eat with me ! '
and she came .
But instead of letting her eat quietly , he took a large lump of the meat and rammed it down her throat with his crook , so that she died .
And when he saw she was dead , he said : ` That is what you have got for tormenting my uncle ! '
and left her lying where she was , while he went after the singing birds .
It took him a long time to catch them ; but at length he had the whole seven hidden in the pockets of his tunic , and then he threw the old woman 's body into some bushes , and drove the sheep before him , back to their fold .
And when they drew near the house the seven boys came to meet him , and he gave a bird to each .
` Why are you weeping ? '
asked the boys , as they took their birds .
` Because your grandmother is dead ! '
And they ran and told their father .
Then the man came up and said to Mohammed : ` What was the matter ?
How did she die ? '
And Mohammed answered : ' I was tending the sheep when she said to me , `` Kill me that ram ; I am hungry ! ''
So I killed it , and gave her the meat .
But she had no teeth , and it choked her . '
` But why did you kill the ram , instead of one of the sheep ? '
asked the man .
` What was I to do ? '
said Mohammed . '
I had to obey orders ! '
` Well , I must see to her burial ! '
said the man ; and the next morning Mohammed drove out the sheep as usual , thinking to himself , ` Thank goodness I 've got rid of the old woman !
Now for the boys ! '
All day long he looked after the sheep , and towards evening he began to dig some little holes in the ground , out of which he took six scorpions .
These he put in his pockets , together with one bird which he caught .
After this he drove his flock home .
When he approached the house the boys came out to meet him as before , saying : ` Give me my bird ! '
and he put a scorpion into the hand of each , and it stung him , and he died .
But to the youngest only he gave a bird .
As soon as he saw the boys lying dead on the ground , Mohammed lifted up his voice and cried loudly : ` Help , help !
the children are dead ! '
And the people came running fast , saying : ` What has happened ?
How have they died ? '
And Mohammed answered : ` It was your own fault !
The boys had been accustomed to birds , and in this bitter cold their fingers grew stiff , and could hold nothing , so that the birds flew away , and their spirits flew with them .
Only the youngest , who managed to keep tight hold of his bird , is still alive . '
And the father groaned , and said , ' I have borne enough !
Bring no more birds , lest I lose the youngest also ! '
` All right , ' said Mohammed .
As he was driving the sheep out to grass he said to his master : ` Out there is a splendid pasture , and I will keep the sheep there for two or , perhaps , three days , so do not be surprised at our absence . '
` Very good ! '
said the man ; and Mohammed started .
For two days he drove them on and on , till he reached his uncle , and said to him , ` Dear uncle , take these sheep and look after them .
I have killed the old woman and the boys , and the flock I have brought to you ! '
Then Mohammed returned to his master ; and on the way he took a stone and beat his own head with it till it bled , and bound his hands tight , and began to scream .
The master came running and asked , ` What is the matter ? '
And Mohammed answered : ` While the sheep were grazing , robbers came and drove them away , and because I tried to prevent them , they struck me on the head and bound my hands .
See how bloody I am ! '
` What shall we do ? '
said the master ; ` are the animals far off ? '
` So far that you are not likely ever to see them again , ' replied Mohammed .
` This is the fourth day since the robbers came down .
How should you be able to overtake them ? '
` Then go and herd the cows ! '
said the man .
` All right ! '
replied Mohammed , and for two days he went .
But on the third day he drove the cows to his uncle , first cutting off their tails .
Only one cow he left behind him .
` Take these cows , dear uncle , ' said he . '
I am going to teach that man a lesson . '
` Well , I suppose you know your own business best , ' said the uncle .
` And certainly he almost worried me to death . '
So Mohammed returned to his master , carrying the cows ' tails tied up in a bundle on his back .
When he came to the sea-shore , he stuck all the tails in the sand , and went and buried the one cow , whose tail he had not cut off , up to her neck , leaving the tail projecting .
After he had got everything ready , he began to shriek and scream as before , till his master and all the other servants came running to see what was the matter .
` What in the world has happened ? '
they cried .
` The sea has swallowed up the cows , ' said Mohammed , ` and nothing remains but their tails .
But if you are quick and pull hard , perhaps you may get them out again ! '
The master ordered each man instantly to take hold of a tail , but at the first pull they nearly tumbled backwards , and the tails were left in their hands .
` Stop , ' cried Mohammed , ` you are doing it all wrong .
You have just pulled off their tails , and the cows have sunk to the bottom of the sea . '
` See if you can do it any better , ' said they ; and Mohammed ran to the cow which he had buried in the rough grass , and took hold of her tail and dragged the animal out at once .
` There !
that is the way to do it ! '
said he , ' I told you you knew nothing about it ! '
The men slunk away , much ashamed of themselves ; but the master came up to Mohammed .
` Get you gone ! '
he said , ` there is nothing more for you to do !
You have killed my mother , you have slain my children , you have stolen my sheep , you have drowned my cows ; I have now no work to give you . '
` First give me the strip of your skin which belongs to me of right , as you have broken your contract ! '
` That a judge shall decide , ' said the master ; ` we will go before him . '
` Yes , we will , ' replied Mohammed .
And they went before the judge .
` What is your case ? '
asked the judge of the master .
` My lord , ' said the man , bowing low , ` my shepherd here has robbed me of everything .
He has killed my children and my old mother ; he has stolen my sheep , he has drowned my cows in the sea . '
The shepherd answered : ` He must pay me what he owes me , and then I will go . '
` Yes , that is the law , ' said the judge .
` Very well , ' returned the master , ` let him reckon up how long he has been in my service . '
` That wo n't do , ' replied Mohammed , ' I want my strip of skin , as we agreed in the contract . '
Seeing there was no help for it , the master cut a bit of skin , and gave it to Mohammed , who went off at once to his uncle .
` Now we are rich , dear uncle , ' cried he , ` we will sell our cows and sheep and go to a new country .
This one is no longer the place for us . '
The sheep were soon sold , and the two comrades started on their travels .
That night they reached some Bedouin tents , where they had supper with the Arabs .
Before they lay down to sleep , Mohammed called the owner of the tent aside .
` Your greyhound will eat my strip of leather , ' he said to the Arab .
` No ; do not fear . '
` But supposing he does ? '
` Well , then , I will give him to you in exchange , ' replied the Arab .
Mohammed waited till everyone was fast asleep , then he rose softly , and tearing the bit of skin in pieces , threw it down before the greyhound , setting up wild shrieks as he did so .
` Oh , master , said I not well that your dog would eat my thong ? '
` Be quiet , do n't make such a noise , and you shall have the dog . '
So Mohammed put a leash round his neck , and led him away .
In the evening they arrived at the tents of some more Bedouin , and asked for shelter .
After supper Mohammed said to the owner of the tent , ` Your ram will kill my greyhound . '
` Oh , no , he wo n't . '
` And supposing he does ? '
` Then you can take him in exchange . '
So in the night Mohammed killed the greyhound , and laid his body across the horns of the ram .
Then he set up shrieks and yells , till he roused the Arab , who said ` Take the ram and go away . '
Mohammed did not need to be told twice , and at sunset he reached another Bedouin encampment .
He was received kindly , as usual , and after supper he said to his host : ` Your daughter will kill my ram . '
` Be silent , she will do nothing of the sort ; my daughter does not need to steal meat , she has some every day . '
` Very well , I will go to sleep ; but if anything happens to my ram I will call out . '
` If my daughter touches anything belonging to my guest I will kill her , ' said the Arab , and went to his bed .
When everybody was asleep , Mohammed got up , killed the ram , and took out his liver , which he broiled on the fire .
He placed a piece of it in the girl 's hands , and laid some more on her night-dress while she slept and knew nothing about it .
After this he began to cry out loudly .
` What is the matter ?
be silent at once ! '
called the Arab .
` How can I be silent , when my ram , which I loved like a child , has been slain by your daughter ? '
` But my daughter is asleep , ' said the Arab .
` Well , go and see if she has not some of the flesh about her . '
` If she has , you may take her in exchange for the ram ; ' and as they found the flesh exactly as Mohammed had foretold , the Arab gave his daughter a good beating , and then told her to get out of sight , for she was now the property of this stranger .
They wandered in the desert till , at nightfall , they came to a Bedouin encampment , where they were hospitably bidden to enter .
Before lying down to sleep , Mohammed said to the owner of the tent : ` Your mare will kill my wife . '
` Certainly not . '
` And if she does ? '
` Then you shall take the mare in exchange . '
When everyone was asleep , Mohammed said softly to his wife : ` Maiden , I have got such a clever plan !
I am going to bring in the mare and put it at your feet , and I will cut you , just a few little flesh wounds , so that you may be covered with blood , and everybody will suppose you to be dead .
But remember that you must not make a sound , or we shall both be lost . '
This was done , and then Mohammed wept and wailed louder than ever .
The Arab hastened to the spot and cried , ` Oh , cease making that terrible noise !
Take the mare and go ; but carry off the dead girl with you .
She can lie quite easily across the mare 's back . '
Then Mohammed and his uncle picked up the girl , and , placing her on the mare 's back , led it away , being very careful to walk one on each side , so that she might not slip down and hurt herself .
After the Arab tents could be seen no longer , the girl sat up on the saddle and looked about her , and as they were all hungry they tied up the mare , and took out some dates to eat .
When they had finished , Mohammed said to his uncle : ` Dear uncle , the maiden shall be your wife ; I give her to you .
But the money we got from the sheep and cows we will divide between us .
You shall have two-thirds and I will have one .
For you will have a wife , but I never mean to marry .
And now , go in peace , for never more will you see me .
The bond of bread and salt is at an end between us . '
So they wept , and fell on each other 's necks , and asked forgiveness for any wrongs in the past .
Then they parted and went their ways .
-LSB- Mrchen und Gedichte aus der Stadt Tripolis .
Von Hans Stumme . -RSB-
BOBINO Once on a time there was a rich merchant , who had an only son called Bobino .
Now , as the boy was clever , and had a great desire for knowledge , his father sent him to be under a master , from whom he thought he would learn to speak all sorts of foreign languages .
After some years with this master , Bobino returned to his home .
One evening , as he and his father were walking in the garden , the sparrows in the trees above their heads began such a twittering , that they found it impossible to hear each other speak .
This annoyed the merchant very much , so , to soothe him , Bobino said : ` Would you like me to explain to you what the sparrows are saying to each other ? '
The merchant looked at his son in astonishment , and answered : ` What can you mean ?
How can you explain what the sparrows say ?
Do you consider yourself a soothsayer or a magician ? ' '
I am neither a soothsayer nor a magician , ' answered Bobino ; ` but my master taught me the language of all the animals . '
` Alas !
for my good money ! '
exclaimed the merchant .
` The master has certainly mistaken my intention .
Of course I meant you to learn the languages that human beings talk , and not the language of animals . '
` Have patience , ' answered the son .
` My master thought it best to begin with the language of animals , and later to learn the languages of human beings . '
On their way into the house the dog ran to meet them , barking furiously .
` What can be the matter with the beast ? '
said the merchant .
` Why should he bark at me like that , when he knows me quite well ? '
` Shall I explain to you what he is saying ? '
said Bobino .
` Leave me in peace , and do n't trouble me with your nonsense , ' said the merchant quite crossly .
` How my money has been wasted ! '
A little later , as they sat down to supper , some frogs in a neighbouring pond set up such a croaking as had never been heard .
The noise so irritated the merchant that he quite lost his temper and exclaimed : ` This only was wanting to add the last drop to my discomfort and disappointment . '
` Shall I explain to you ? '
began Bobino .
` Will you hold your tongue with your explanations ? '
shouted the merchant .
` Go to bed , and do n't let me see your face again ! '
So Bobino went to bed and slept soundly .
But his father , who could not get over his disappointment at the waste of his money , was so angry , that he sent for two servants , and gave them orders , which they were to carry out on the following day .
Next morning one of the servants awakened Bobino early , and made him get into a carriage that was waiting for him .
The servant placed himself on the seat beside him , while the other servant rode alongside the carriage as an escort .
Bobino could not understand what they were going to do with him , or where he was being taken ; but he noticed that the servant beside him looked very sad , and his eyes were all swollen with crying .
Curious to know the reason he said to him : ` Why are you so sad ?
and where are you taking me ? '
But the servant would say nothing .
At last , moved by Bobino 's entreaties , he said : ` My poor boy , I am taking you to your death , and , what is worse , I am doing so by the order of your father . '
` But why , ' exclaimed Bobino , ` does he want me to die ?
What evil have I done him , or what fault have I committed that he should wish to bring about my death ? '
` You have done him no evil , ' answered the servant , ` neither have you committed any fault ; but he is half mad with anger because , in all these years of study , you have learnt nothing but the language of animals .
He expected something quite different from you , that is why he is determined you shall die . '
` If that is the case , kill me at once , ' said Bobino .
` What is the use of waiting , if it must be done ? ' '
I have not the heart to do it , ' answered the servant . '
I would rather think of some way of saving your life , and at the same time of protecting ourselves from your father 's anger .
By good luck the dog has followed us .
We will kill it , and cut out the heart and take it back to your father .
He will believe it is yours , and you , in the meantime , will have made your escape . '
When they had reached the thickest part of the wood , Bobino got out of the carriage , and having said good-bye to the servants set out on his wanderings .
On and on he walked , till at last , late in the evening , he came to a house where some herdsmen lived .
He knocked at the door and begged for shelter for the night .
The herdsmen , seeing how gentle a youth he seemed , made him welcome , and bade him sit down and share their supper .
While they were eating it , the dog in the courtyard began to bark .
Bobino walked to the window , listened attentively for a minute , and then turning to the herdsmen said : ` Send your wives and daughters at once to bed , and arm yourselves as best you can , because at midnight a band of robbers will attack this house . '
The herdsmen were quite taken aback , and thought that the youth must have taken leave of his senses .
` How can you know , ' they said , ` that a band of robbers mean to attack us ?
Who told you so ? ' '
I know it from the dog 's barking , ' answered Bobino . '
I understand his language , and if I had not been here , the poor beast would have wasted his breath to no purpose .
You had better follow my advice , if you wish to save your lives and property . '
The herdsmen were more and more astonished , but they decided to do as Bobino advised .
They sent their wives and daughters upstairs , then , having armed themselves , they took up their position behind a hedge , waiting for midnight .
Just as the clock struck twelve they heard the sound of approaching footsteps , and a band of robbers cautiously advanced towards the house .
But the herdsmen were on the lookout ; they sprang on the robbers from behind the hedge , and with blows from their cudgels soon put them to flight .
You may believe how grateful they were to Bobino , to whose timely warning they owed their safety .
They begged him to stay and make his home with them ; but as he wanted to see more of the world , he thanked them warmly for their hospitality , and set out once more on his wanderings .
All day he walked , and in the evening he came to a peasant 's house .
While he was wondering whether he should knock and demand shelter for the night , he heard a great croaking of frogs in a ditch behind the house .
Stepping to the back he saw a very strange sight .
Four frogs were throwing a small bottle about from one to the other , making a great croaking as they did so .
Bobino listened for a few minutes , and then knocked at the door of the house .
It was opened by the peasant , who asked him to come in and have some supper .
When the meal was over , his host told him that they were in great trouble , as his eldest daughter was so ill , that they feared she could not recover .
A great doctor , who had been passing that way some time before , had promised to send her some medicine that would have cured her , but the servant to whom he had entrusted the medicine had let it drop on the way back , and now there seemed no hope for the girl .
Then Bobino told the father of the small bottle he had seen the frogs play with , and that he knew that was the medicine which the doctor had sent to the girl .
The peasant asked him how he could be sure of this , and Bobino explained to him that he understood the language of animals , and had heard what the frogs said as they tossed the bottle about .
So the peasant fetched the bottle from the ditch , and gave the medicine to his daughter .
In the morning she was much better , and the grateful father did not know how to thank Bobino enough .
But Bobino would accept nothing from him , and having said good-bye , set out once more on his wanderings .
One day , soon after this , he came upon two men resting under a tree in the heat of the day .
Being tired he stretched himself on the ground at no great distance from them , and soon they all three began to talk to one another .
In the course of conversation , Bobino asked the two men where they were going ; and they replied that they were on their way to a neighbouring town , where , that day , a new ruler was to be chosen by the people .
While they were still talking , some sparrows settled on the tree under which they were lying .
Bobino was silent , and appeared to be listening attentively .
At the end of a few minutes he said to his companions , ` Do you know what those sparrows are saying ?
They are saying that to-day one of us will be chosen ruler of that town . '
The men said nothing , but looked at each other .
A few minutes later , seeing that Bobino had fallen asleep , they stole away , and made with all haste for the town , where the election of a new ruler was to take place .
A great crowd was assembled in the market-place , waiting for the hour when an eagle should be let loose from a cage , for it had been settled that on whose-soever house the eagle alighted , the owner of that house should become ruler of the town .
At last the hour arrived ; the eagle was set free , and all eyes were strained to see where it would alight .
But circling over the heads of the crowd , it flew straight in the direction of a young man , who was at that moment entering the town .
This was none other than Bobino , who had awakened soon after his companions had left him , and had followed in their footsteps .
All the people shouted and proclaimed that he was their future ruler , and he was conducted by a great crowd to the Governor 's house , which was for the future to be his home .
And here he lived happily , and ruled wisely over the people .
-LSB- Illustration : The Townspeople make Bobino King -RSB- THE DOG AND THE SPARROW There was once upon a time a sheep-dog whose master was so unkind that he starved the poor beast , and ill-treated him in the cruellest manner .
At last the dog determined to stand this ill-usage no longer , and , one day , he ran away from home .
As he was trotting along the road he met a sparrow , who stopped him and said : ` Brother , why do you look so sad ? '
The dog answered : ' I am sad because I am hungry , and have nothing to eat . '
` If that 's all , dear brother , ' said the sparrow , ` come to the town with me , and I 'll soon get food for you . '
So they went together to the town , and when they came to a butcher 's shop , the sparrow said to the dog : ` You stand still and I 'll peck down a piece of meat for you . '
First she looked all round to see that no one was watching her , and then she set to work to peck at a piece of meat that lay on the edge of a shelf , till at last it fell down .
The dog seized it ravenously , and ran with it to a dark corner where he gobbled it up in a very few minutes .
When he had finished it , the sparrow said : ` Now come with me to another shop , and I will get you a second piece , so that your hunger may be satisfied . '
When the dog had finished the second piece of meat , the sparrow asked him : ` Brother , have you had enough now ? '
` Yes , ' replied the dog , ` I 've had quite enough meat but I have n't had any bread yet . '
The sparrow said : ` You shall have as much bread as you like , only come with me . '
Then she led him to a baker 's shop , and pecked so long at two rolls on a shelf that at last they fell down , and the dog ate them up .
But still his hunger was not appeased ; so the sparrow took him to another baker 's shop , and got some more rolls for him .
Then she asked him : ` Well , brother , are you satisfied ? '
` Yes , ' he replied ; ` and now let us go for a little walk outside the town . '
So the two went for a stroll into the country ; but the day was very hot , and after they had gone a short distance the dog said : ' I am very tired , and would like to go to sleep . '
` Sleep , then , ' said the sparrow , ` and I will keep watch meantime on the branch of a tree . '
So the dog lay down in the middle of the road , and was soon fast asleep .
While he was sleeping a carter passed by , driving a waggon drawn by three horses , and laden with two barrels of wine .
The sparrow noticed that the man was not going out of his way to avoid the dog , but was driving right in the middle of the road where the poor animal lay ; so she called out : ` Carter , take care what you are about , or I shall make you suffer for it . '
But the carter merely laughed at her words , and , cracking his whip , he drove his waggon right over the dog , so that the heavy wheels killed him .
Then the sparrow called out : ` You have caused my brother 's death , and your cruelty will cost you your waggon and horses . '
` Waggon and horses , indeed , ' said the carter ; ` I 'd like to know how you could rob me of them ! '
The sparrow said nothing , but crept under the cover of the waggon and pecked so long at the bunghole of one of the barrels that at last she got the cork away , and all the wine ran out without the carter 's noticing it .
But at last he turned round and saw that the bottom of the cart was wet , and when he examined it , he found that one of the barrels was quite empty , ` Oh !
what an unlucky fellow I am ! '
he exclaimed .
` You 'll have worse luck still , ' said the sparrow , as she perched on the head of one of the horses and pecked out its eyes .
When the carter saw what had happened , he seized an axe and tried to hit the sparrow with it , but the little bird flew up into the air , and the carter only hit the blind horse on the head , so that it fell down dead .
` Oh !
what an unlucky fellow I am ! '
he exclaimed again .
-LSB- Illustration : The Dog & the Sparrow How the Carter killed his horse . -RSB-
` You 'll have worse luck yet , ' said the sparrow ; and when the carter drove on with his two horses she crept under the covering again , and pecked away at the cork of the second barrel till she got it away , and all the wine poured out on to the road .
When the carter perceived this fresh disaster he called out once more : ` Oh !
what an unlucky fellow I am ! '
But the sparrow answered : ` Your bad luck is not over yet , ' and flying on to the head of the second horse she pecked out its eyes .
The carter jumped out of the waggon and seized his axe , with which he meant to kill the sparrow ; but the little bird flew high into the air , and the blow fell on the poor blind horse instead , and killed it on the spot .
Then the carter exclaimed : ` Oh !
what an unlucky fellow I am ! '
` You 've not got to the end of your bad luck yet , ' sang the sparrow ; and , perching on the head of the third horse , she pecked out its eyes .
The carter , blind with rage , let his axe fly at the bird ; but once more she escaped the blow , which fell on the only remaining horse , and killed it .
And again the carter called out : ` Oh !
what an unlucky fellow I am ! '
` You 'll have worse luck yet , ' said the sparrow , ` for now I mean to make your home desolate . '
The carter had to leave his waggon on the road , and he went home in a towering passion .
As soon as he saw his wife , he called out : ` Oh !
what bad luck I have had !
all my wine is spilt , and my horses are all three dead . '
` My dear husband , ' replied his wife , ` your bad luck pursues you , for a wicked little sparrow has assembled all the other birds in the world , and they are in our barn eating everything up . '
The carter went out to the barn where he kept his corn and found it was just as his wife had said .
Thousands and thousands of birds were eating up the grain , and in the middle of them sat the little sparrow .
When he saw his old enemy , the carter cried out : ` Oh !
what an unlucky fellow I am ! '
` Not unlucky enough yet , ' answered the sparrow , ` for , mark my words , carter , your cruel conduct will cost you your life ; ' and with these words she flew into the air .
The carter was much depressed by the loss of all his worldly goods , and sat down at the fire plotting vengeance on the sparrow , while the little bird sat on the window ledge and sang in mocking tones : ` Yes , carter , your cruel conduct will cost you your life . '
Then the carter seized his axe and threw it at the sparrow , but he only broke the window panes , and did not do the bird a bit of harm .
She hopped in through the broken window and , perching on the mantelpiece , she called out : ` Yes , carter , it will cost you your life . '
The carter , quite beside himself with rage , flew at the sparrow again with his axe , but the little creature always eluded his blows , and he only succeeded in destroying all his furniture .
At last , however , he managed to catch the bird in his hands .
Then his wife called out : ` Shall I wring her neck ? '
` Certainly not , ' replied her husband , ` that would be far too easy a death for her ; she must die in a far crueller fashion than that .
I will eat her alive ; ' and he suited the action to his words .
But the sparrow fluttered and struggled inside him till she got up into the man 's mouth , and then she popped out her head and said : ` Yes , carter , it will cost you your life . '
The carter handed his wife the axe , and said : ` Wife , kill the bird in my mouth dead . '
The woman struck with all her might , but she missed the bird and hit the carter right on the top of his head , so that he fell down dead .
But the sparrow escaped out of his mouth and flew away into the air .
-LSB- From the German , Kletke . -RSB-
THE STORY OF THE THREE SONS OF HALI Till his eighteenth birthday the young Neangir lived happily in a village about forty miles from Constantinople , believing that Mohammed and Zinebi his wife , who had brought him up , were his real parents .
Neangir was quite content with his lot , though he was neither rich nor great , and unlike most young men of his age had no desire to leave his home .
He was therefore completely taken by surprise when one day Mohammed told him with many sighs that the time had now come for him to go to Constantinople , and fix on a profession for himself .
The choice would be left to him , but he would probably prefer either to be a soldier or one of the doctors learned in the law , who explain the Koran to the ignorant people .
` You know the holy book nearly by heart , ' ended the old man , ` so that in a very short time you would be fitted to teach others .
But write to us and tell us how you pass your life , and we , on our side , will promise never to forget you . '
So saying , Mohammed gave Neangir four piastres to start him in the great city , and obtained leave for him to join a caravan which was about to set off for Constantinople .
The journey took some days , as caravans go very slowly , but at last the walls and towers of the capital appeared in the distance .
When the caravan halted the travellers went their different ways , and Neangir was left , feeling very strange and rather lonely .
He had plenty of courage and made friends very easily ; still , not only was it the first time he had left the village where he had been brought up , but no one had ever spoken to him of Constantinople , and he did not so much as know the name of a single street or of a creature who lived in it .
Wondering what he was to do next , Neangir stood still for a moment to look about him , when suddenly a pleasant-looking man came up , and bowing politely , asked if the youth would do him the honour of staying in his house till he had made some plans for himself .
Neangir , not seeing anything else he could do , accepted the stranger 's offer and followed him home .
They entered a large room , where a girl of about twelve years old was laying three places at the table .
` Zelida , ' said the stranger , ` was I not quite right when I told you that I should bring back a friend to sup with us ? '
` My father , ' replied the girl , ` you are always right in what you say , and what is better still , you never mislead others . '
As she spoke , an old slave placed on the table a dish called pillau , made of rice and meat , which is a great favourite among people in the East , and setting down glasses of sherbet before each person , left the room quietly .
During the meal the host talked a great deal upon all sorts of subjects ; but Neangir did nothing but look at Zelida , as far as he could without being positively rude .
The girl blushed and grew uncomfortable , and at last turned to her father .
` The stranger 's eyes never wander from me , ' she said in a low and hesitating voice .
` If Hassan should hear of it , jealousy will make him mad . '
` No , no , ' replied the father , ` you are certainly not for this young man .
Did I not tell you before that I intend him for your sister Argentine .
I will at once take measures to fix his heart upon her , ' and he rose and opened a cupboard , from which he took some fruits and a jug of wine , which he put on the table , together with a small silver and mother-of-pearl box .
` Taste this wine , ' he said to the young man , pouring some into a glass .
` Give me a little , too , ' cried Zelida .
` Certainly not , ' answered her father , ` you and Hassan both had as much as was good for you the other day . '
` Then drink some yourself , ' replied she , ` or this young man will think we mean to poison him . '
` Well , if you wish , I will do so , ' said the father ; ` this elixir is not dangerous at my age , as it is at yours . '
When Neangir had emptied his glass , his host opened the mother-of-pearl box and held it out to him .
Neangir was beside himself with delight at the picture of a young maiden more beautiful than anything he had ever dreamed of .
He stood speechless before it , while his breast swelled with a feeling quite new to him .
His two companions watched him with amusement , until at last Neangir roused himself .
` Explain to me , I pray you , ' he said , ` the meaning of these mysteries .
Why did you ask me here ?
Why did you force me to drink this dangerous liquid which has set fire to my blood ?
Why have you shown me this picture which has almost deprived me of reason ? ' '
I will answer some of your questions , ' replied his host , ' but all , I may not .
The picture that you hold in your hand is that of Zelida 's sister .
It has filled your heart with love for her ; therefore , go and seek her .
When you find her , you will find yourself . '
` But where shall I find her ? '
cried Neangir , kissing the charming miniature on which his eyes were fixed . '
I am unable to tell you more , ' replied his host cautiously .
` But I can , ' interrupted Zelida eagerly .
` To-morrow you must go to the Jewish bazaar , and buy a watch from the second shop on the right hand .
And at midnight -- ' But what was to happen at midnight , Neangir did not hear , for Zelida 's father hastily laid his hand over her mouth , crying : ` Oh , be silent , child !
Would you draw down on you by imprudence the fate of your unhappy sisters ? '
Hardly had he uttered the words , when a thick black vapour rose about him , proceeding from the precious bottle , which his rapid movement had overturned .
The old slave rushed in and shrieked loudly , while Neangir , upset by this strange adventure , left the house .
-LSB- Illustration : NEANGIR SEES THE PICTURE OF ARGENTINE -RSB- He passed the rest of the night on the steps of a mosque , and with the first streaks of dawn he took his picture out of the folds of his turban .
Then , remembering Zelida 's words , he inquired the way to the bazaar , and went straight to the shop she had described .
In answer to Neangir 's request to be shown some watches , the merchant produced several and pointed out the one which he considered the best .
The price was three gold pieces , which Neangir readily agreed to give him ; but the man made a difficulty about handing over the watch unless he knew where his customer lived .
` That is more than I know myself , ' replied Neangir . '
I only arrived in the town yesterday and can not find the way to the house where I went first . '
` Well , ' said the merchant , ` come with me , and I will take you to a good Mussulman , where you will have everything you desire at a small charge . '
Neangir consented , and the two walked together through several streets till they reached the house recommended by the Jewish merchant .
By his advice the young man paid in advance the last gold piece that remained to him for his food and lodging .
As soon as Neangir had dined he shut himself up in his room , and thrusting his hand into the folds of his turban , drew out his beloved portrait .
As he did so , he touched a sealed letter which had apparently been hidden there without his knowledge , and seeing it was written by his foster-mother , Zinebi , he tore it eagerly open .
Judge of his surprise when he read these words : ` My dearest Child , -- This letter , which you will some day find in your turban , is to inform you that you are not really our son .
We believe your father to have been a great lord in some distant land , and inside this packet is a letter from him , threatening to be avenged on us if you are not restored to him at once .
We shall always love you , but do not seek us or even write to us .
It will be useless . '
In the same wrapper was a roll of paper with a few words as follows , traced in a hand unknown to Neangir : ` Traitors , you are no doubt in league with those magicians who have stolen the two daughters of the unfortunate Siroco , and have taken from them the talisman given them by their father .
You have kept my son from me , but I have found out your hiding-place and swear by the Holy Prophet to punish your crime .
The stroke of my scimitar is swifter than the lightning . '
The unhappy Neangir on reading these two letters -- of which he understood absolutely nothing -- felt sadder and more lonely than ever .
It soon dawned on him that he must be the son of the man who had written to Mohammed and his wife , but he did not know where to look for him , and indeed thought much more about the people who had brought him up and whom he was never to see again .
To shake off these gloomy feelings , so as to be able to make some plans for the future , Neangir left the house and walked briskly about the city till darkness had fallen .
He then retraced his steps and was just crossing the threshold when he saw something at his feet sparkling in the moonlight .
He picked it up , and discovered it to be a gold watch shining with precious stones .
He gazed up and down the street to see if there was anyone about to whom it might belong , but there was not a creature visible .
So he put it in his sash , by the side of a silver watch which he had bought from the Jew that morning .
The possession of this piece of good fortune cheered Neangir up a little , ` for , ' thought he , ' I can sell these jewels for at least a thousand sequins , and that will certainly last me till I have found my father . '
And consoled by this reflection he laid both watches beside him and prepared to sleep .
In the middle of the night he awoke suddenly and heard a soft voice speaking , which seemed to come from one of the watches .
` Aurora , my sister , ' it whispered gently .
` Did they remember to wind you up at midnight ? '
` No , dear Argentine , ' was the reply .
` And you ? '
` They forgot me , too , ' answered the first voice , ` and it is now one o'clock , so that we shall not be able to leave our prison till to-morrow -- if we are not forgotten again -- then . '
` We have nothing now to do here , ' said Aurora .
` We must resign ourselves to our fate -- let us go . '
Filled with astonishment Neangir sat up in bed , and beheld by the light of the moon the two watches slide to the ground and roll out of the room past the cats ' quarters .
He rushed towards the door and on to the staircase , but the watches slipped downstairs without his seeing them , and into the street .
He tried to unlock the door and follow them , but the key refused to turn , so he gave up the chase and went back to bed .
The next day all his sorrows returned with tenfold force .
He felt himself lonelier and poorer than ever , and in a fit of despair he thrust his turban on his head , stuck his sword in his belt , and left the house determined to seek an explanation from the merchant who had sold him the silver watch .
When Neangir reached the bazaar he found the man he sought was absent from his shop , and his place filled by another Jew .
` It is my brother you want , ' said he ; ` we keep the shop in turn , and in turn go into the city to do our business . '
` Ah !
what business ? '
cried Neangir in a fury .
` You are the brother of a scoundrel who sold me yesterday a watch that ran away in the night .
But I will find it somehow , or else you shall pay for it , as you are his brother ! '
` What is that you say ? '
asked the Jew , around whom a crowd had rapidly gathered . '
A watch that ran away .
If it had been a cask of wine , your story might be true , but a watch -- !
That is hardly possible ! '
` The Cadi shall say whether it is possible or not , ' replied Neangir , who at that moment perceived the other Jew enter the bazaar .
Darting up , he seized him by the arm and dragged him to the Cadi 's house ; but not before the man whom he had found in the shop contrived to whisper to his brother , in a tone loud enough for Neangir to hear , ` Confess nothing , or we shall both be lost . '
When the Cadi was informed of what had taken place he ordered the crowd to be dispersed by blows , after the Turkish manner , and then asked Neangir to state his complaint .
After hearing the young man 's story , which seemed to him most extraordinary , he turned to question the Jewish merchant , who instead of answering raised his eyes to heaven and fell down in a dead faint .
The judge took no notice of the swooning man , but told Neangir that his tale was so singular he really could not believe it , and that he should have the merchant carried back to his own house .
This so enraged Neangir that he forgot the respect due to the Cadi , and exclaimed at the top of his voice , ` Recover this fellow from his fainting fit , and force him to confess the truth , ' giving the Jew as he spoke a blow with his sword which caused him to utter a piercing scream .
` You see for yourself , ' said the Jew to the Cadi , ` that this young man is out of his mind .
I forgive him his blow , but do not , I pray you , leave me in his power . '
At that moment the Bassa chanced to pass the Cadi 's house , and hearing a great noise , entered to inquire the cause .
When the matter was explained , he looked attentively at Neangir , and asked him gently how all these marvels could possibly have happened .
` My lord , ' replied Neangir , ' I swear I have spoken the truth , and perhaps you will believe me when I tell you that I myself have been the victim of spells wrought by people of this kind , who should be rooted out from the earth .
For three years I was changed into a three-legged pot , and only returned to man 's shape when one day a turban was laid upon my lid . '
At these words the Bassa rent his robe for joy , and embracing Neangir , he cried , ` Oh , my son , my son , have I found you at last ?
Do you not come from the house of Mohammed and Zinebi ? '
` Yes , my lord , ' replied Neangir , ` it was they who took care of me during my misfortune , and taught me by their example to be less worthy of belonging to you . '
` Blessed be the Prophet , ' said the Bassa , ` who has restored one of my sons to me , at the time I least expected it !
You know , ' he continued , addressing the Cadi , ` that during the first years of my marriage I had three sons by the beautiful Zambac .
When he was three years old a holy dervish gave the eldest a string of the finest coral , saying `` Keep this treasure carefully , and be faithful to the Prophet , and you will be happy . ''
To the second , who now stands before you , he presented a copper plate on which the name of Mahomet was engraved in seven languages , telling him never to part from his turban , which was the sign of a true believer , and he would taste the greatest of all joys ; while on the right arm of the third the dervish clasped a bracelet with the prayer that his right hand should be pure and the left spotless , so that he might never know sorrow .
` My eldest son neglected the counsel of the dervish and terrible troubles fell on him , as also on the youngest .
To preserve the second from similar misfortunes I brought him up in a lonely place , under the care of a faithful servant named Gouloucou , while I was fighting the enemies of our Holy Faith .
On my return from the wars I hastened to embrace my son , but both he and Gouloucou had vanished , and it is only a few months since that I learned that the boy was living with a man called Mohammed , whom I suspected of having stolen him .
Tell me , my son , how it came about that you fell into his hands . '
` My lord , ' replied Neangir , ' I can remember little of the early years of my life , save that I dwelt in a castle by the seashore with an old servant .
I must have been about twelve years old when one day as we were out walking we met a man whose face was like that of this Jew , coming dancing towards us .
Suddenly I felt myself growing faint .
I tried to raise my hands to my head , but they had become stiff and hard .
In a word , I had been changed into a copper pot , and my arms formed the handle .
What happened to my companion I know not , but I was conscious that some one had picked me up , and was carrying me quickly away .
` After some days , or so it seemed to me , I was placed on the ground near a thick hedge , and when I heard my captor snoring beside me I resolved to make my escape .
So I pushed my way among the thorns as well as I could , and walked on steadily for about an hour .
` You can not imagine , my lord , how awkward it is to walk with three legs , especially when your knees are as stiff as mine were .
At length after much difficulty I reached a market-garden , and hid myself deep down among the cabbages , where I passed a quiet night .
` The next morning , at sunrise , I felt some one stooping over me and examining me closely .
`` What have you got there , Zinebi ? ''
said the voice of a man a little way off . '
`` The most beautiful pot in the whole world , '' answered the woman beside me , `` and who would have dreamed of finding it among my cabbages ! ''
` Mohammed lifted me from the ground and looked at me with admiration .
That pleased me , for every one likes to be admired , even if he is only a pot !
And I was taken into the house and filled with water , and put on the fire to boil .
` For three years I led a quiet and useful life , being scrubbed bright every day by Zinebi , then a young and beautiful woman .
` One morning Zinebi set me on the fire , with a fine fillet of beef inside me to cook , for dinner .
Being afraid that some of the steam would escape through the lid , and that the taste of her stew would be spoilt , she looked about for something to put over the cover , but could see nothing handy but her husband 's turban .
She tied it firmly round the lid , and then left the room .
For the first time during three years I began to feel the fire burning the soles of my feet , and moved away a little -- doing this with a great deal more ease than I had felt when making my escape to Mohammed 's garden .
I was somehow aware , too , that I was growing taller ; in fact in a few minutes I was a man again .
-LSB- Illustration : ZINEBI PUTS THE TURBAN ON THE POT -RSB- ` After the third hour of prayer Mohammed and Zinebi both returned , and you can guess their surprise at finding a young man in the kitchen instead of a copper pot !
I told them my story , which at first they refused to believe , but in the end I succeeded in persuading them that I was speaking the truth .
For two years more I lived with them , and was treated like their own son , till the day when they sent me to this city to seek my fortune .
And now , my lords , here are the two letters which I found in my turban .
Perhaps they may be another proof in favour of my story . '
Whilst Neangir was speaking , the blood from the Jew 's wound had gradually ceased to flow ; and at this moment there appeared in the doorway a lovely Jewess , about twenty-two years old , her hair and her dress all disordered , as if she had been flying from some great danger .
In one hand she held two crutches of white wood , and was followed by two men .
The first man Neangir knew to be the brother of the Jew he had struck with his sword , while in the second the young man thought he recognised the person who was standing by when he was changed into a pot .
Both of these men had a wide linen band round their thighs and held stout sticks .
-LSB- Illustration : THERE APPEARED IN THE DOORWAY A LOVELY JEWESS -RSB- The Jewess approached the wounded man and laid the two crutches near him ; then , fixing her eyes on him , she burst into tears .
` Unhappy Izouf , ' she murmured , ` why do you suffer yourself to be led into such dangerous adventures ?
Look at the consequences , not only to yourself , but to your two brothers , ' turning as she spoke to the men who had come in with her , and who had sunk down on the mat at the feet of the Jew .
The Bassa and his companions were struck both with the beauty of the Jewess and also with her words , and begged her to give them an explanation .
` My lords , ' she said , ` my name is Sumi , and I am the daughter of Mozes , one of our most famous rabbis .
I am the victim of my love for Izaf , ' pointing to the man who had entered last , ` and in spite of his ingratitude , I can not tear him from my heart .
Cruel enemy of my life , ' she continued , turning to Izaf , ` tell these gentlemen your story and that of your brothers , and try to gain your pardon by repentance . '
` We all three were born at the same time , ' said the Jew , obeying the command of Sumi at a sign from the Cadi , ` and are the sons of the famous Nathan Ben-Sadi , who gave us the names of Izif , Izouf , and Izaf .
From our earliest years we were taught the secrets of magic , and as we were all born under the same stars we shared the same happiness and the same troubles .
` Our mother died before I can remember , and when we were fifteen our father was seized with a dangerous illness which no spells could cure .
Feeling death draw near , he called us to his bedside and took leave of us in these words : ' `` My sons , I have no riches to bequeath to you ; my only wealth was those secrets of magic which you know .
Some stones you already have , engraved with mystic signs , and long ago I taught you how to make others .
But you still lack the most precious of all talismans -- the three rings belonging to the daughters of Siroco .
Try to get possession of them , but take heed on beholding these young girls that you do not fall under the power of their beauty .
Their religion is different from yours , and further , they are the betrothed brides of the sons of the Bassa of the Sea .
And to preserve you from a love which can bring you nothing but sorrow , I counsel you in time of peril to seek out the daughter of Mozes the Rabbi , who cherishes a hidden passion for Izaf , and possesses the Book of Spells , which her father himself wrote with the sacred ink that was used for the Talmud . ''
So saying , our father fell back on his cushions and died , leaving us burning with desire for the three rings of the daughters of Siroco .
` No sooner were our sad duties finished than we began to make inquiries where these young ladies were to be found , and we learned after much trouble that Siroco , their father , had fought in many wars , and that his daughters , whose beauty was famous throughout all the land , were named Aurora , Argentine , and Zelida . '
At the second of these names , both the Bassa and his son gave a start of surprise , but they said nothing , and Izaf went on with his story .
` The first thing to be done was to put on a disguise , and it was in the dress of foreign merchants that we at length approached the young ladies , taking care to carry with us a collection of fine stones which we had hired for the occasion .
But alas !
it was to no purpose that Nathan Ben-Sadi had warned us to close our hearts against their charms !
The peerless Aurora was clothed in a garment of golden hue , studded all over with flashing jewels ; the fair-haired Argentine wore a dress of silver , and the young Zelida , loveliest of them all , the costume of a Persian lady .
` Among other curiosities that we had brought with us , was a flask containing an elixir which had the quality of exciting love in the breasts of any man or woman who drank of it .
This had been given me by the fair Sumi , who had used it herself and was full of wrath because I refused to drink it likewise , and so return her passion .
I showed this liquid to the three maidens who were engaged in examining the precious stones , and choosing those that pleased them best ; and I was in the act of pouring some in a crystal cup , when Zelida 's eyes fell on a paper wrapped round the flask containing these words : `` Beware lest you drink this water with any other man than him who will one day be your husband . ''
`` Ah , traitor ! ''
she exclaimed , `` what snare have you laid for me ? ''
and glancing where her finger pointed I recognised the writing of Sumi .
-LSB- Illustration : ZELIDA DISCOVERS THE WRITING ON THE FLASK -RSB- ` By this time my two brothers had already got possession of the rings of Aurora and Argentine in exchange for some merchandise which they coveted , and no sooner had the magic circles left their hands than the two sisters vanished completely , and in their place nothing was to be seen but a watch of gold and one of silver .
At this instant the old slave whom we had bribed to let us enter the house , rushed into the room announcing the return of Zelida 's father .
My brothers , trembling with fright , hid the watches in their turbans , and while the slave was attending to Zelida , who had sunk fainting to the ground , we managed to make our escape .
` Fearing to be traced by the enraged Siroco , we did not dare to go back to the house where we lodged , but took refuge with Sumi . '
`` Unhappy wretches ! ''
cried she , `` is it thus that you have followed the counsels of your father ?
This very morning I consulted my magic books , and saw you in the act of abandoning your hearts to the fatal passion which will one day be your ruin .
No , do not think I will tamely bear this insult !
It was I who wrote the letter which stopped Zelida in the act of drinking the elixir of love !
As for you , '' she went on , turning to my brothers , `` you do not yet know what those two watches will cost you !
But you can learn it now , and the knowledge of the truth will only serve to render your lives still more miserable . ''
` As she spoke she held out the sacred book written by Mozes , and pointed to the following lines : ' `` If at midnight the watches are wound with the key of gold and the key of silver , they will resume their proper shapes during the first hour of the day .
They will always remain under the care of a woman , and will come back to her wherever they may be .
And the woman appointed to guard them is the daughter of Mozes . ''
` My brothers were full of rage when they saw themselves outwitted , but there was no help for it .
The watches were delivered up to Sumi and they went their way , while I remained behind curious to see what would happen .
` As night wore on Sumi wound up both watches , and when midnight struck Aurora and her sister made their appearance .
They knew nothing of what had occurred and supposed they had just awakened from sleep , but when Sumi 's story made them understand their terrible fate , they both sobbed with despair and were only consoled when Sumi promised never to forsake them .
Then one o'clock sounded , and they became watches again .
` All night long I was a prey to vague fears , and I felt as if something unseen was pushing me on -- in what direction I did not know .
At dawn I rose and went out , meeting Izif in the street suffering from the same dread as myself .
We agreed that Constantinople was no place for us any longer , and calling to Izouf to accompany us , we left the city together , but soon determined to travel separately , so that we might not be so easily recognised by the spies of Siroco . '
A few days later I found myself at the door of an old castle near the sea , before which a tall slave was pacing to and fro .
The gift of one or two worthless jewels loosened his tongue , and he informed me that he was in the service of the son of the Bassa of the Sea , at that time making war in distant countries .
The youth , he told me , had been destined from his boyhood to marry the daughter of Siroco , whose sisters were to be the brides of his brothers , and went on to speak of the talisman that his charge possessed .
But I could think of nothing but the beautiful Zelida , and my passion , which I thought I had conquered , awoke in full force .
` In order to remove this dangerous rival from my path , I resolved to kidnap him , and to this end I began to act a madman , and to sing and dance loudly , crying to the slave to fetch the boy and let him see my tricks .
He consented , and both were so diverted with my antics that they laughed till the tears ran down their cheeks , and even tried to imitate me .
Then I declared I felt thirsty and begged the slave to fetch me some water , and while he was absent I advised the youth to take off his turban , so as to cool his head .
He complied gladly , and in the twinkling of an eye was changed into a pot .
A cry from the slave warned me that I had no time to lose if I would save my life , so I snatched up the pot and fled with it like the wind .
` You have heard , my lords , what became of the pot , so I will only say now that when I awoke it had disappeared ; but I was partly consoled for its loss by finding my two brothers fast asleep not far from me .
`` How did you get here ? ''
I inquired , `` and what has happened to you since we parted ? '' '
`` Alas ! ''
replied Izouf , `` we were passing a wayside inn from which came sounds of songs and laughter , and fools that we were -- we entered and sat down .
Circassian girls of great beauty were dancing for the amusement of several men , who not only received us politely , but placed us near the two loveliest maidens .
Our happiness was complete , and time flew unknown to us , when one of the Circassians leaned forward and said to her sister , ` Their brother danced , and they must dance too . '
What they meant by these words I know not , but perhaps you can tell us ? '' '
`` I understand quite well , '' I replied .
`` They were thinking of the day that I stole the son of the Bassa , and had danced before him . '' '
`` Perhaps you are right , '' continued Izouf , `` for the two ladies took our hands and danced with us till we were quite exhausted , and when at last we sat down a second time to table we drank more wine than was good for us .
Indeed , our heads grew so confused , that when the men jumped up and threatened to kill us , we could make no resistance and suffered ourselves to be robbed of everything we had about us , including the most precious possession of all , the two talismans of the daughters of Siroco . ''
` Not knowing what else to do , we all three returned to Constantinople to ask the advice of Sumi , and found that she was already aware of our misfortunes , having read about them in the book of Mozes .
The kind-hearted creature wept bitterly at our story , but , being poor herself , could give us little help .
At last I proposed that every morning we should sell the silver watch into which Argentine was changed , as it would return to Sumi every evening unless it was wound up with the silver key -- which was not at all likely .
Sumi consented , but only on the condition that we would never sell the watch without ascertaining the house where it was to be found , so that she might also take Aurora thither , and thus Argentine would not be alone if by any chance she was wound up at the mystic hour .
For some weeks now we have lived by this means , and the two daughters of Siroco have never failed to return to Sumi each night .
Yesterday Izouf sold the silver watch to this young man , and in the evening placed the gold watch on the steps by order of Sumi , just before his customer entered the house ; from which both watches came back early this morning . '
` If I had only known ! '
cried Neangir .
` If I had had more presence of mind , I should have seen the lovely Argentine , and if her portrait is so fair , what must the original be ! '
` It was not your fault , ' replied the Cadi , ` you are no magician ; and who could guess that the watch must be wound at such an hour ?
But I shall give orders that the merchant is to hand it over to you , and this evening you will certainly not forget . '
` It is impossible to let you have it to-day , ' answered Izouf , ` for it is already sold . '
` If that is so , ' said the Cadi , ` you must return the three gold pieces which the young man paid . '
The Jew , delighted to get off so easily , put his hand in his pocket , when Neangir stopped him .
` No , no , ' he exclaimed , ` it is not money I want , but the adorable Argentine ; without her everything is valueless . '
` My dear Cadi , ' said the Bassa , ` he is right .
The treasure that my son has lost is absolutely priceless . '
` My lord , ' replied the Cadi , ` your wisdom is greater than mine .
Give judgment I pray you in the matter . '
So the Bassa desired them all to accompany him to his house , and commanded his slaves not to lose sight of the three Jewish brothers .
When they arrived at the door of his dwelling , he noticed two women sitting on a bench close by , thickly veiled and beautifully dressed .
Their wide satin trousers were embroidered in silver , and their muslin robes were of the finest texture .
In the hand of one was a bag of pink silk tied with green ribbons , containing something that seemed to move .
At the approach of the Bassa both ladies rose , and came towards him .
Then the one who held the bag addressed him saying , ` Noble lord , buy , I pray you , this bag , without asking to see what it contains . '
` How much do you want for it ? '
asked the Bassa .
` Three hundred sequins , ' replied the unknown .
At these words the Bassa laughed contemptuously , and passed on without speaking .
-LSB- Illustration : The BASSA laughs at the CIRCASSIANS -RSB- ` You will not repent of your bargain , ' went on the woman .
` Perhaps if we come back to-morrow you will be glad to give us the four hundred sequins we shall then ask .
And the next day the price will be five hundred . '
` Come away , ' said her companion , taking hold of her sleeve .
` Do not let us stay here any longer .
It may cry , and then our secret will be discovered . '
And so saying , the two young women disappeared .
The Jews were left in the front hall under the care of the slaves , and Neangir and Sumi followed the Bassa inside the house , which was magnificently furnished .
At one end of a large , brilliantly-lighted room a lady of about thirty-five years old reclined on a couch , still beautiful in spite of the sad expression of her face .
` Incomparable Zambac , ' said the Bassa , going up to her , ` give me your thanks , for here is the lost son for whom you have shed so many tears , ' but before his mother could clasp him in her arms Neangir had flung himself at her feet .
` Let the whole house rejoice with me , ' continued the Bassa , ` and let my two sons Ibrahim and Hassan be told , that they may embrace their brother . '
` Alas !
my lord ! '
said Zambac , ` do you forget that this is the hour when Hassan weeps on his hand , and Ibrahim gathers up his coral beads ? '
` Let the command of the prophet be obeyed , ' replied the Bassa ; ` then we will wait till the evening . '
` Forgive me , noble lord , ' interrupted Sumi , ` but what is this mystery ?
With the help of the Book of Spells perhaps I may be of some use in the matter . '
` Sumi , ' answered the Bassa , ' I owe you already the happiness of my life ; come with me then , and the sight of my unhappy sons will tell you of our trouble better than any words of mine . '
The Bassa rose from his divan and drew aside the hangings leading to a large hall , closely followed by Neangir and Sumi .
There they saw two young men , one about seventeen , and the other nineteen years of age .
The younger was seated before a table , his forehead resting on his right hand , which he was watering with his tears .
He raised his head for a moment when his father entered , and Neangir and Sumi both saw that this hand was of ebony .
The other young man was occupied busily in collecting coral beads which were scattered all over the floor of the room , and as he picked them up he placed them on the same table where his brother was sitting .
He had already gathered together ninety-eight beads , and thought they were all there , when they suddenly rolled off the table and he had to begin his work over again .
` Do you see , ' whispered the Bassa , ` for three hours daily one collects these coral beads , and for the same space of time the other laments over his hand which has become black , and I am wholly ignorant what is the cause of either misfortune . '
` Do not let us stay here , ' said Sumi , ` our presence must add to their grief .
But permit me to fetch the Book of Spells , which I feel sure will tell us not only the cause of their malady but also its cure . '
The Bassa readily agreed to Sumi 's proposal , but Neangir objected strongly .
` If Sumi leaves us , ' he said to his father , ' I shall not see my beloved Argentine when she returns to-night with the fair Aurora .
And life is an eternity till I behold her . '
` Be comforted , ' replied Sumi . '
I will be back before sunset ; and I leave you my adored Izaf as a pledge . '
Scarcely had the Jewess left Neangir , when the old female slave entered the hall where the three Jews still remained carefully guarded , followed by a man whose splendid dress prevented Neangir from recognising at first as the person in whose house he had dined two days before .
But the woman he knew at once to be the nurse of Zelida .
He started eagerly forward , but before he had time to speak the slave turned to the soldier she was conducting .
` My lord , ' she said , ` those are the men ; I have tracked them from the house of the Cadi to this palace .
They are the same ; I am not mistaken , strike and avenge yourself . '
As he listened the face of the stranger grew scarlet with anger .
He drew his sword and in another moment would have rushed on the Jews , when Neangir and the slaves of the Bassa seized hold of him .
` What are you doing ? '
cried Neangir .
` How dare you attack those whom the Bassa has taken under his protection ? '
` Ah , my son , ' replied the soldier , ` The Bassa would withdraw his protection if he knew that these wretches have robbed me of all I have dearest in the world .
He knows them as little as he knows you . '
` But he knows me very well , ' replied Neangir , ` for he has recognised me as his son .
Come with me now , into his presence . '
The stranger bowed and passed through the curtain held back by Neangir , whose surprise was great at seeing his father spring forward and clasp the soldier in his arms .
` What !
is it you , my dear Siroco ? '
cried he . '
I believed you had been slain in that awful battle when the followers of the Prophet were put to flight .
But why do your eyes kindle with the flames they shot forth on that fearful day ?
Calm yourself and tell me what I can do to help you .
See , I have found my son , let that be a good omen for your happiness also . ' '
I did not guess , ' answered Siroco , ` that the son you have so long mourned had come back to you .
Some days since the Prophet appeared to me in a dream , floating in a circle of light , and he said to me , `` Go to-morrow at sunset to the Galata Gate , and there you will find a young man whom you must bring home with you .
He is the second son of your old friend the Bassa of the Sea , and that you may make no mistake , put your fingers in his turban and you will feel the plate on which my name is engraved in seven different languages . '' '
I did as I was bid , ' went on Siroco , ` and so charmed was I with his face and manner that I caused him to fall in love with Argentine , whose portrait I gave him .
But at the moment when I was rejoicing in the happiness before me , and looking forward to the pleasure of restoring you your son , some drops of the elixir of love were spilt on the table , and caused a thick vapour to arise , which hid everything .
When it had cleared away he was gone .
This morning my old slave informed me that she had discovered the traitors who had stolen my daughters from me , and I hastened hither to avenge them .
But I place myself in your hands , and will follow your counsel . '
` Fate will favour us , I am sure , ' said the Bassa , ` for this very night I expect to secure both the silver and the gold watch .
So send at once and pray Zelida to join us . '
A rustling of silken stuffs drew their eyes to the door , and Ibrahim and Hassan , whose daily penance had by this time been performed , entered to embrace their brother .
Neangir and Hassan , who had also drunk of the elixir of love , could think of nothing but the beautiful ladies who had captured their hearts , while the spirits of Ibrahim had been cheered by the news that the daughter of Mozes hoped to find in the Book of Spells some charm to deliver him from collecting the magic beads .
It was some hours later that Sumi returned , bringing with her the sacred book .
` See , ' she said , beckoning to Hassan , ` your destiny is written here . '
And Hassan stooped and read these words in Hebrew : ` His right hand has become black as ebony from touching the fat of an impure animal , and will remain so till the last of its race is drowned in the sea . '
-LSB- Illustration : SUMI  SHOWS  HASSAN  THE  BOOK  OF  MAGIC -RSB- ` Alas ! '
sighed the unfortunate youth .
` It now comes back to my memory .
One day the slave of Zambac was making a cake .
She warned me not to touch , as the cake was mixed with lard , but I did not heed her , and in an instant my hand became the ebony that it now is . '
` Holy dervish ! '
exclaimed the Bassa , ` how true were your words !
My son has neglected the advice you gave him on presenting him the bracelet , and he has been severely punished .
But tell me , O wise Sumi , where I can find the last of the accursed race who has brought this doom on my son ? '
` It is written here , ' replied Sumi , turning over some leaves .
` The little black pig is in the pink bag carried by the two Circassians . '
When he read this the Bassa sank on his cushions in despair .
` Ah , ' he said , ` that is the bag that was offered me this morning for three hundred sequins .
Those must be the women who caused Izif and Izouf to dance , and took from them the two talismans of the daughters of Siroco .
They only can break the spell that has been cast on us .
Let them be found and I will gladly give them the half of my possessions .
Idiot that I was to send them away ! '
While the Bassa was bewailing his folly , Ibrahim in his turn had opened the book , and blushed deeply as he read the words : ` The chaplet of beads has been defiled by the game of `` Odd and Even . ''
Its owner has tried to cheat by concealing one of the numbers .
Let the faithless Moslem seek for ever the missing bead . ' '
O heaven , ' cried Ibrahim , ` that unhappy day rises up before me .
I had cut the thread of the chaplet , while playing with Aurora .
Holding the ninety-nine beads in my hand she guessed `` Odd , '' and in order that she might lose I let one bead fall from my hand .
Since then I have sought it daily , but it never has been found . '
` Holy dervish ! '
cried the Bassa , ` how true were your words !
From the time that the sacred chaplet was no longer complete , my son has borne the penalty .
But may not the Book of Spells teach us how to deliver Ibrahim also ? '
` Listen , ' said Sumi , ` this is what I find : `` The coral bead lies in the fifth fold of the dress of yellow brocade . '' '
` Ah , what good fortune ! '
exclaimed the Bassa , ` we shall shortly see the beautiful Aurora , and Ibrahim shall at once search in the fifth fold of her yellow brocade .
For it is she no doubt of whom the book speaks . '
As the Jewess closed the Book of Mozes , Zelida appeared , accompanied by a whole train of slaves and her old nurse .
At her entrance Hassan , beside himself with joy , flung himself on his knees and kissed her hand .
` My lord , ' he said to the Bassa , ` pardon me these transports .
No elixir of love was needed to inflame my heart !
Let the marriage rite make us speedily one . '
` My son , are you mad ? '
asked the Bassa .
` As long as the misfortunes of your brothers last , shall you alone be happy .
And whoever heard of a bridegroom with a black hand ?
Wait yet a little longer , till the black pig is drowned in the sea . '
` Yes !
dear Hassan , ' said Zelida , ` our happiness will be increased tenfold when my sisters have regained their proper shapes .
And here is the elixir which I have brought with me , so that their joy may equal ours . '
And she held out the flask to the Bassa , who had it closed in his presence .
Zambac was filled with joy at the sight of Zelida , and embraced her with delight .
Then she led the way into the garden , and invited all her friends to seat themselves under the thick overhanging branches of a splendid jessamine tree .
No sooner , however , were they comfortably settled , than they were astonished to hear a man 's voice , speaking angrily on the other side of the wall .
` Ungrateful girls ! '
it said , ` is this the way you treat me ?
Let me hide myself for ever !
This cave is no longer dark enough or deep enough for me . '
A burst of laughter was the only answer , and the voice continued , ` What have I done to earn such contempt ?
Was this what you promised me when I managed to get for you the talismans of beauty ?
Is this the reward I have a right to expect when I have bestowed on you the little black pig , who is certain to bring you good luck ? '
At these words the curiosity of the listeners passed all bounds , and the Bassa commanded his slaves instantly to tear down the wall .
It was done , but the man was nowhere to be seen , and there were only two girls of extraordinary beauty , who seemed quite at their ease , and came dancing gaily on to the terrace .
With them was an old slave in whom the Bassa recognised Gouloucou , the former guardian of Neangir .
-LSB- Illustration : THE CIRCASSIANS DANCE INTO THE BASSA 'S GARDEN -RSB- Gouloucou shrank with fear when he saw the Bassa , as he expected nothing less than death at his hands for allowing Neangir to be snatched away .
But the Bassa made him signs of forgiveness , and asked him how he had escaped death when he had thrown himself from the cliff .
Gouloucou explained that he had been picked up by a dervish who had cured his wounds , and had then given him as slave to the two young ladies now before the company , and in their service he had remained ever since .
` But , ' said the Bassa , ` where is the little black pig of which the voice spoke just now ? '
` My lord , ' answered one of the ladies , ` when at your command the wall was thrown down , the man whom you heard speaking was so frightened at the noise that he caught up the pig and ran away . '
` Let him be pursued instantly , ' cried the Bassa ; but the ladies smiled .
` Do not be alarmed , my lord , ' said one , ` he is sure to return .
Only give orders that the entrance to the cave shall be guarded , so that when he is once in he shall not get out again . '
By this time night was falling and they all went back to the palace , where coffee and fruits were served in a splendid gallery , near the women 's apartments .
The Bassa then ordered the three Jews to be brought before him , so that he might see whether these were the two damsels who had forced them to dance at the inn , but to his great vexation it was found that when their guards had gone to knock down the wall the Jews had escaped .
At this news the Jewess Sumi turned pale , but glancing at the Book of Spells her face brightened , and she said half aloud , ` There is no cause for disquiet ; they will capture the dervish , ' while Hassan lamented loudly that as soon as fortune appeared on one side she fled on the other !
On hearing this reflection one of the Bassa 's pages broke into a laugh .
` This fortune comes to us dancing , my lord , ' said he , ` and the other leaves us on crutches .
Do not be afraid .
She will not go very far . '
The Bassa , shocked at his impertinent interference , desired him to leave the room and not to come back till he was sent for .
` My lord shall be obeyed , ' said the page , ` but when I return , it shall be in such good company that you will welcome me gladly . '
So saying , he went out .
When they were alone , Neangir turned to the fair strangers and implored their help .
` My brothers and myself , ' he cried , ` are filled with love for three peerless maidens , two of whom are under a cruel spell .
If their fate happened to be in your hands , would you not do all in your power to restore them to happiness and liberty ? '
But the young man 's appeal only stirred the two ladies to anger .
` What , ' exclaimed one , ` are the sorrows of lovers to us ?
Fate has deprived us of our lovers , and if it depends on us the whole world shall suffer as much as we do ! '
This unexpected reply was heard with amazement by all present , and the Bassa entreated the speaker to tell them her story .
Having obtained permission of her sister , she began : THE STORY OF THE FAIR CIRCASSIANS ` We were born in Circassia of poor people , and my sister 's name is Tezila and mine Dely .
Having nothing but our beauty to help us in life , we were carefully trained in all the accomplishments that give pleasure .
We were both quick to learn , and from our childhood could play all sorts of instruments , could sing , and above all could dance .
We were , besides , lively and merry , as in spite of our misfortunes we are to this day .
` We were easily pleased and quite content with our lives at home , when one morning the officials who had been sent to find wives for the Sultan saw us , and were struck with our beauty .
We had always expected something of the sort , and were resigned to our lot , when we chanced to see two young men enter our house .
The elder , who was about twenty years of age , had black hair and very bright eyes .
The other could not have been more than fifteen , and was so fair that he might easily have passed for a girl .
` They knocked at the door with a timid air and begged our parents to give them shelter , as they had lost their way .
After some hesitation their request was granted , and they were invited into the room in which we were .
And if our parents ' hearts were touched by their beauty , our own were not any harder , so that our departure for the palace , which had been arranged for the next day , suddenly became intolerable to us .
` Night came , and I awoke from my sleep to find the younger of the two strangers sitting at my bedside and felt him take my hand . '
`` Fear nothing , lovely Dely , '' he whispered , `` from one who never knew love till he saw you .
My name , '' he went on , `` is Prince Delicate , and I am the son of the King of the Isle of Black Marble .
My friend , who travels with me , is one of the richest nobles of my country , and the secrets which he knows are the envy of the Sultan himself .
And we left our native country because my father wished me to marry a lady of great beauty , but with one eye a trifle smaller than the other . ''
` My vanity was flattered at so speedy a conquest , and I was charmed with the way the young man had declared his passion .
I turned my eyes slowly on him , and the look I gave him caused him almost to lose his senses .
He fell fainting forward , and I was unable to move till Tezila , who had hastily put on a dress , ran to my assistance together with Thelamis , the young noble of whom the Prince had spoken .
` As soon as we were all ourselves again we began to bewail our fate , and the journey that we were to take that very day to Constantinople .
But we felt a little comforted when Thelamis assured us that he and the prince would follow in our steps , and would somehow contrive to speak to us .
Then they kissed our hands , and left the house by a side-way . '
A few moments later our parents came to tell us that the escort had arrived , and having taken farewell of them we mounted the camels , and took our seats in a kind of box that was fixed to the side of the animal .
These boxes were large enough for us to sleep in comfortably , and as there was a window in the upper part , we were able to see the country through which we passed .
` For several days we journeyed on , feeling sad and anxious as to what might become of us , when one day as I was looking out of the window of our room , I heard my name called , and beheld a beautifully dressed girl jumping out of the box on the other side of our camel .
One glance told me that it was the prince , and my heart bounded with joy .
It was , he said , Thelamis 's idea to disguise him like this , and that he himself had assumed the character of a slave-dealer who was taking this peerless maiden as a present to the Sultan .
Thelamis had also persuaded the officer in charge of the caravan to let him hire the vacant box , so it was easy for the prince to scramble out of his own window and approach ours .
` This ingenious trick enchanted us , but our agreeable conversation was soon interrupted by the attendants , who perceived that the camel was walking in a crooked manner and came to find out what was wrong .
Luckily they were slow in their movements , and the prince had just time to get back to his own box and restore the balance , before the trick was discovered .
` But neither the prince nor his friend had any intention of allowing us to enter the Sultan 's palace , though it was difficult to know how we were to escape , and what was to become of us when once we had escaped .
At length , one day as we were drawing near Constantinople , we learned from the prince that Thelamis had made acquaintance with a holy dervish whom he had met on the road , and had informed him that we were his sisters , who were being sold as slaves against his will .
The good man was interested in the story , and readily agreed to find us shelter if we could manage to elude the watchfulness of our guards .
The risk was great , but it was our only chance .
` That night , when the whole caravan was fast asleep , we raised the upper part of our boxes and by the help of Thelamis climbed silently out .
We next went back some distance along the way we had come , then , striking into another road , reached at last the retreat prepared for us by the dervish .
Here we found food and rest , and I need not say what happiness it was to be free once more .
` The dervish soon became a slave to our beauty , and the day after our escape he proposed that we should allow him to conduct us to an inn situated at a short distance , where we should find two Jews , owners of precious talismans which did not really belong to them .
`` Try , '' said the dervish , `` by some means to get possession of them . ''
` The inn , though not on the direct road to Constantinople , was a favourite one with merchants , owing to the excellence of the food , and on our arrival we discovered at least six or eight other people who had stopped for refreshment .
They greeted us politely , and we sat down to table together .
` In a short time the two men described by the dervish entered the room , and at a sign from him my sister made room at her side for one , while I did the same for the other .
` Now the dervish had happened to mention that `` their brother had danced . ''
At the moment we paid no attention to this remark , but it came back to our minds now , and we determined that they should dance also .
To accomplish this we used all our arts and very soon bent them to our wills , so that they could refuse us nothing .
At the end of the day we remained possessors of the talismans and had left them to their fate , while the Prince and Thelamis fell more in love with us than ever , and declared that we were more lovely than any women in the world .
` The sun had set before we quitted the inn , and we had made no plans as to where we should go next , so we readily consented to the prince 's proposal that we should embark without delay for the Isle of Black Marble .
What a place it was !
Rocks blacker than jet towered above its shores and shed thick darkness over the country .
Our sailors had not been there before and were nearly as frightened as ourselves , but thanks to Thelamis , who undertook to be our pilot , we landed safely on the beach .
` When we had left the coast behind us , with its walls of jet , we entered a lovely country where the fields were greener , the streams clearer , and the sun brighter than anywhere else .
The people crowded round to welcome their prince , whom they loved dearly , but they told him that the king was still full of rage at his son 's refusal to marry his cousin the Princess Okimpare , and also at his flight .
Indeed , they all begged him not to visit the capital , as his life would hardly be safe .
So , much as I should have enjoyed seeing the home of my beloved prince , I implored him to listen to this wise advice and to let us all go to Thelamis 's palace in the middle of a vast forest .
` To my sister and myself , who had been brought up in a cottage , this house of Thelamis 's seemed like fairyland .
It was built of pink marble , so highly polished that the flowers and streams surrounding it were reflected as in a mirror .
One set of rooms was furnished especially for me in yellow silk and silver , to suit my black hair .
Fresh dresses were provided for us every day , and we had slaves to wait on us .
Ah , why could not this happiness have lasted for ever !
` The peace of our lives was troubled by Thelamis 's jealousy of my sister , as he could not endure to see her on friendly terms with the prince , though knowing full well that his heart was mine .
Every day we had scenes of tender reproaches and of explanations , but Tezila 's tears never failed to bring Thelamis to his knees , with prayers for forgiveness .
` We had been living in this way for some months when one day the news came that the king had fallen dangerously ill .
I begged the prince to hurry at once to the court , both to see his father and also to show himself to the senators and nobles , but as his love for me was greater than his desire of a crown , he hesitated as if foreseeing all that afterwards happened .
At last Tezila spoke to him so seriously in Thelamis 's presence , that he determined to go , but promised that he would return before night .
` Night came but no prince , and Tezila , who had been the cause of his departure , showed such signs of uneasiness that Thelamis 's jealousy was at once awakened .
As for me , I can not tell what I suffered .
Not being able to sleep I rose from my bed and wandered into the forest , along the road which he had taken so many hours before .
Suddenly I heard in the distance the sound of a horse 's hoofs , and in a few moments the prince had flung himself down and was by my side .
`` Ah , how I adore you ! ''
he exclaimed , `` Thelamis 's love will never equal mine . ''
The words were hardly out of his mouth when I heard a slight noise behind , and before we could turn round both our heads were rolling in front of us , while the voice of Thelamis cried : ' `` Perjured wretches , answer me ; and you , faithless Tezila , tell me why you have betrayed me like this ? ''
` Then I understood what had happened , and that in his rage , he had mistaken me for my sister . '
`` Alas , '' replied my head in weak tones , `` I am not Tezila , but Dely , whose life you have destroyed , as well as that of your friend . ''
At this Thelamis paused and seemed to reflect for an instant . '
`` Be not frightened , '' he said more quietly , `` I can make you whole again , '' and laying a magic powder on our tongues he placed our heads on our necks .
In the twinkling of an eye our heads were joined to our bodies without leaving so much as a scar ; only that , blinded with rage as he still was , Thelamis had placed my head on the prince 's body , and his on mine !
-LSB- Illustration : THE WRONG HEADS ON THE WRONG BODIES -RSB- ' I can not describe to you how odd we both felt at this strange transformation .
We both instinctively put up our hands -- he to feel his hair , which was , of course , dressed like a woman , and I to raise the turban which pressed heavily on my forehead .
But we did not know what had happened to us , for the night was still dark .
` At this point Tezila appeared , followed by a troop of slaves bearing flowers .
It was only by the light of their torches that we understood what had occurred .
Indeed the first thought of both of us was that we must have changed clothes .
` Now in spite of what we may say , we all prefer our own bodies to those of anybody else , so notwithstanding our love for each other , at first we could not help feeling a little cross with Thelamis .
However , so deep was the prince 's passion for me , that very soon he began to congratulate himself on the change .
`` My happiness is perfect , '' he said , `` my heart , beautiful Dely , has always been yours , and now I have your head also . ''
` But though the prince made the best of it , Thelamis was much ashamed of his stupidity .
`` I have , '' he said hesitatingly , `` two other pastilles which have the same magic properties as those I used before .
Let me cut off your heads again , and that will put matters straight . ''
The proposal sounded tempting , but was a little risky , and after consulting together we decided to let things remain as they were .
`` Do not blame me then , '' continued Thelamis , `` if you will not accept my offer .
But take the two pastilles , and if it ever happens that you are decapitated a second time , make use of them in the way I have shown you , and each will get back his own head . ''
So saying he presented us with the pastilles , and we all returned to the castle .
` However , the troubles caused by the unfortunate exchange were only just beginning .
My head , without thinking what it was doing , led the prince 's body to my apartments .
But my women , only looking at the dress , declared I had mistaken the corridor , and called some slaves to conduct me to his Highness 's rooms .
This was bad enough , but when -- as it was still night -- my servants began to undress me , I nearly fainted from surprise and confusion , and no doubt the Prince 's head was suffering in the same manner at the other end of the castle !
` By the next morning -- you will easily guess that we slept but little -- we had grown partly accustomed to our strange situation , and when we looked in the mirror , the prince had become brown-skinned and black-haired , while my head was covered with his curly golden locks .
And after that first day , every one in the palace had become so accustomed to the change that they thought no more about it .
` Some weeks after this , we heard that the king of the Isle of Black Marble was dead .
The prince 's head , which once was mine , was full of ambitious desires , and he longed to ride straight to the capital and proclaim himself king .
But then came the question as to whether the nobles would recognise the prince with a girl 's body , and indeed , when we came to think of it , which was prince and which was girl ?
` At last , after much argument , my head carried the day and we set out ; but only to find that the king had declared the Princess Okimpare his successor .
The greater part of the senators and nobles openly professed that they would much have preferred the rightful heir , but as they could not recognise him either in the Prince or me , they chose to consider us as impostors and threw us into prison . '
A few days later Tezila and Thelamis , who had followed us to the capital , came to tell us that the new queen had accused us of high treason , and had herself been present at our trial -- which was conducted without us .
They had been in mortal terror as to what would be our sentence , but by a piece of extraordinary luck we had been condemned to be beheaded . '
I told my sister that I did not see exactly where the luck came in , but Thelamis interrupted me rudely : ' `` What ! ''
he cried , `` of course I shall make use of the pastilles , and -- '' but here the officers arrived to lead us to the great square where the execution was to take place -- for Okimpare was determined there should be no delay .
` The square was crowded with people of all ages and all ranks , and in the middle a platform had been erected on which was the scaffold , with the executioner , in a black mask , standing by .
At a sign from him I mounted first , and in a moment my head was rolling at his feet .
With a bound my sister and Thelamis were beside me , and like lightning Thelamis seized the sabre from the heads-man , and cut off the head of the prince .
And before the multitude had recovered from their astonishment at these strange proceedings , our bodies were joined to our right heads , and the pastilles placed on our tongues .
Then Thelamis led the prince to the edge of the platform and presented him to the people , saying `` Behold your lawful king . ''
` Shouts of joy rent the air at the sound of Thelamis 's words , and the noise reached Okimpare in the palace .
Smitten with despair at the news , she fell down unconscious on her balcony , and was lifted up by the slaves and taken back to her own house .
` Meanwhile our happiness was all turned to sorrow .
I had rushed up to the prince to embrace him fondly , when he suddenly grew pale and staggered . '
`` I die faithful to you , '' he murmured , turning his eyes towards me , `` and I die a king ! ''
and leaning his head on my shoulder he expired quietly , for one of the arteries in his neck had been cut through .
` Not knowing what I did I staggered towards the sabre which was lying near me , with the intention of following my beloved prince as speedily as possible .
And when Thelamis seized my hand -LRB- but only just in time -RRB- , in my madness I turned the sabre upon him , and he fell struck through the heart at my feet . '
* * * * * The whole company were listening to the story with breathless attention , when it became plain that Dely could go no further , while Tezila had flung herself on a heap of cushions and hidden her face .
Zambac ordered her women to give them all the attention possible , and desired they should be carried into her own rooms .
When the two sisters were in this condition , Ibrahim , who was a very prudent young man , suggested to his parents that as the two Circassians were both unconscious , it would be an excellent opportunity to search them and see if the talismans belonging to the daughters of Siroco were concealed about their persons .
But the Bassa , shocked at the notion of treating his guests in so inhospitable a manner , refused to do anything of the kind , adding that the next day he hoped to persuade them to give the talismans up of their own free will .
By this time it was nearly midnight and Neangir , who was standing near the Jewess Sumi , drew out the portrait of Argentine , and heard with delight that she was even more beautiful than her picture .
Every one was waiting on tiptoe for the appearance of the two watches , who were expected when the clock struck twelve to come in search of Sumi , and that there might be no delay the Bassa ordered all the doors to be flung wide open .
It was done , and there entered not the longed-for watches , but the page who had been sent away in disgrace .
Then the Bassa arose in wrath .
` Azemi , ' he said , ` did I not order you to stand no more in my presence ? '
` My lord , ' replied Azemi , modestly , ' I was hidden outside the door , listening to the tale of the two Circassians .
And as I know you are fond of stories , give me also leave to tell you one .
I promise you it shall not be long . '
` Speak on , ' replied the Bassa , ` but take heed what you say . '
` My lord , ' began Azemi , ` this morning I was walking in the town when I noticed a man going in the same direction followed by a slave .
He entered a baker 's shop , where he bought some bread which he gave to the slave to carry .
I watched him and saw that he purchased many other kinds of provisions at other places , and when the slave could carry no more his master commanded him to return home and have supper ready at midnight .
` When left alone the man went up the street , and turning into a jeweller 's shop , brought out a watch that as far as I could see was made of silver .
He walked on a few steps , then stooped and picked up a gold watch which lay at his feet .
At this point I ran up and told him that if he did not give me half its price I would report him to the Cadi ; he agreed , and conducting me to his house produced four hundred sequins , which he said was my share , and having got what I wanted I went away .
` As it was the hour for attending on my lord I returned home and accompanied you to the Cadi , where I heard the story of the three Jews and learned the importance of the two watches I had left at the stranger 's .
I hastened to his house , but he had gone out , and I could only find the slave , whom I told that I was the bearer of important news for his master .
Believing me to be one of his friends , he begged me to wait , and showed me into a room where I saw the two watches lying on the table .
I put them in my pocket , leaving the four hundred sequins in place of the gold watch and three gold pieces which I knew to be the price of the other .
As you know the watches never remain with the person who buys them , this man may think himself very lucky to get back his money .
I have wound them both up , and at this instant Aurora and Argentine are locked safely into my own room . '
Everybody was so delighted to hear this news that Azemi was nearly stifled with their embraces , and Neangir could hardly be prevented from running to break in the door , though he did not even know where the page slept .
But the page begged to have the honour of fetching the ladies himself , and soon returned leading them by the hand .
For some minutes all was a happy confusion , and Ibrahim took advantage of it to fall on his knees before Aurora , and search in the fifth fold of her dress for the missing coral bead .
The Book of Spells had told the truth ; there it was , and as the chaplet was now complete the young man 's days of seeking were over .
In the midst of the general rejoicing Hassan alone bore a gloomy face .
` Alas ! '
he said , ` everyone is happy but the miserable being you see before you .
I have lost the only consolation in my grief , which was to feel that I had a brother in misfortune ! '
` Be comforted , ' replied the Bassa ; ` sooner or later the dervish who stole the pink bag is sure to be found . '
Supper was then served , and after they had all eaten of rare fruits which seemed to them the most delicious in the whole world , the Bassa ordered the flask containing the elixir of love to be brought and the young people to drink of it .
Then their eyes shone with a new fire , and they swore to be true to each other till death .
This ceremony was scarcely over when the clock struck one , and in an instant Aurora and Argentine had vanished , and in the place where they stood lay two watches .
Silence fell upon all the company -- they had forgotten the enchantment ; then the voice of Azemi was heard asking if he might be allowed to take charge of the watches till the next day , pledging his head to end their enchantment .
With the consent of Sumi , this was granted , and the Bassa gave Azemi a purse containing a thousand sequins , as a reward for the services he had already rendered to them .
After this everybody went to his own apartment .
Azemi had never possessed so much money before , and never closed his eyes for joy the whole night long .
Very early he got up and went into the garden , thinking how he could break the enchantment of the daughters of Siroco .
Suddenly the soft tones of a woman fell on his ear , and peeping through the bushes he saw Tezila , who was arranging flowers in her sister 's hair .
The rustling of the leaves caused Dely to start ; she jumped up as if to fly , but Azemi implored her to remain and begged her to tell him what happened to them after the death of their lovers , and how they had come to find the dervish .
` The punishment decreed to us by the Queen Okimpare , ' answered Dely , ` was that we were to dance and sing in the midst of our sorrow , at a great fte which was to be held that very day for all her people .
This cruel command nearly turned our brains , and we swore a solemn oath to make all lovers as wretched as we were ourselves .
In this design we succeeded so well that in a short time the ladies of the capital came in a body to Okimpare , and prayed her to banish us from the kingdom , before their lives were made miserable for ever .
She consented , and commanded us to be placed on board a ship , with our slave Gouloucou .
` On the shore we saw an old man who was busily engaged in drowning some little black pigs , talking to them all the while , as if they could understand him .
-LSB- Illustration : The Dervish drowning the Pigs -RSB- ' `` Accursed race , '' said he , `` it is you who have caused all the misfortunes of him to whom I gave the magic bracelet .
Perish all of you ! ''
` We drew near from curiosity , and recognised in him the dervish who had sheltered us on our first escape from the caravan .
` When the old man discovered who we were he was beside himself with pleasure , and offered us a refuge in the cave where he lived .
We gladly accepted his offer , and to the cave we all went , taking with us the last little pig , which he gave us as a present . '
`` The Bassa of the Sea , '' he added , `` will pay you anything you like to ask for it . ''
` Without asking why it was so precious I took the pig and placed it in my work bag , where it has been ever since .
Only yesterday we offered it to the Bassa , who laughed at us , and this so enraged us against the dervish that we cut off his beard when he was asleep , and now he dare not show himself . '
` Ah , ' exclaimed the page , ` it is not fitting that such beauty should waste itself in making other people miserable .
Forget the unhappy past and think only of the future .
And accept , I pray you , this watch , to mark the brighter hours in store . '
So saying he laid the watch upon her knee .
Then he turned to Tezila .
` And you , fair maiden , permit me to offer you this other watch .
True it is only of silver , but it is all I have left to give .
And I feel quite sure that you must have somewhere a silver seal , that will be exactly the thing to go with it . '
` Why , so you have , ' cried Dely ; ` fasten your silver seal to your watch , and I will hang my gold one on to mine . '
The seals were produced , and , as Azemi had guessed , they were the talismans which the two Circassians had taken from Izif and Izouf , mounted in gold and silver .
As quick as lightning the watches slid from the hands of Tezila and her sister , and Aurora and Argentine stood before them , each with her talisman on her finger .
At first they seemed rather confused themselves at the change which had taken place , and the sunlight which they had not seen for so long , but when gradually they understood that their enchantment had come to an end , they could find no words to express their happiness .
The Circassians could with difficulty be comforted for the loss of the talismans , but Aurora and Argentine entreated them to dry their tears , as their father , Siroco , who was governor of Alexandria , would not fail to reward them in any manner they wished .
This promise was soon confirmed by Siroco himself , who came into the garden with the Bassa and his two sons , and was speedily joined by the ladies of the family .
Only Hassan was absent .
It was the hour in which he was condemned to bewail his ebony hand .
To the surprise of all a noise was at this moment heard in a corner of the terrace , and Hassan himself appeared surrounded by slaves , clapping his hands and shouting with joy . '
I was weeping as usual , ' cried he , ` when all at once the tears refused to come to my eyes , and on looking down at my hand I saw that its blackness had vanished .
And now , lovely Zelida , nothing prevents me any longer from offering you the hand , when the heart has been yours always . '
But though Hassan never thought of asking or caring what had caused his cure , the others were by no means so indifferent .
It was quite clear that the little black pig must be dead -- but how , and when ?
To this the slaves answered that they had seen that morning a man pursued by three others , and that he had taken refuge in the cavern which they had been left to guard .
Then , in obedience to orders , they had rolled a stone over the entrance .
Piercing shrieks interrupted their story , and a man , whom the Circassians saw to be the old dervish , rushed round the corner of the terrace with the three Jews behind him .
When the fugitive beheld so many people collected together , he turned down another path , but the slaves captured all four and brought them before their master .
What was the surprise of the Bassa when he beheld in the old dervish the man who had given the chaplet , the copper plate , and the bracelet to his three sons .
` Fear nothing , holy father , ' he said , ` you are safe with me .
But tell us , how came you here ? '
` My lord , ' explained the dervish , ` when my beard was cut off during my sleep by the two Circassians , I was ashamed to appear before the eyes of men , and fled , bearing with me the pink silk bag .
In the night these three men fell in with me , and we passed some time in conversation , but at dawn , when it was light enough to see each other 's faces , one of them exclaimed that I was the dervish travelling with the two Circassians who had stolen the talismans from the Jews .
I jumped up and tried to fly to my cave , but they were too quick for me , and just as we reached your garden they snatched the bag which contained the little black pig and flung it into the sea .
By this act , which delivers your son , I would pray you to forgive them for any wrongs they may have done you -- nay more , that you will recompense them for it . '
The Bassa granted the holy man 's request , and seeing that the two Jews had fallen victims to the charms of the Circassian ladies , gave his consent to their union , which was fixed to take place at the same time as that of Izaf with the wise Sumi .
The Cadi was sent for , and the Jews exchanged the hats of their race for the turbans of the followers of the Prophet .
Then , after so many misfortunes , the Bassa 's three sons entreated their father to delay their happiness no longer , and the six marriages were performed by the Cadi at the hour of noon .
-LSB- Cabinet des Fes .
-RSB- THE JACKAL AND THE SPRING Once upon a time all the streams and rivers ran so dry that the animals did not know how to get water .
After a very long search , which had been quite in vain , they found a tiny spring , which only wanted to be dug deeper so as to yield plenty of water .
So the beasts said to each other , ` Let us dig a well , and then we shall not fear to die of thirst ; ' and they all consented except the jackal , who hated work of any kind , and generally got somebody to do it for him .
When they had finished their well , they held a council as to who should be made the guardian of the well , so that the jackal might not come near it , for , they said , ` he would not work , therefore he shall not drink . '
After some talk it was decided that the rabbit should be left in charge ; then all the other beasts went back to their homes .
When they were out of sight the jackal arrived .
` Good morning !
Good morning , rabbit ! '
and the rabbit politely said , ` Good morning ! '
Then the jackal unfastened the little bag that hung at his side , and pulled out of it a piece of honeycomb which he began to eat , and turning to the rabbit he remarked : ` As you see , rabbit , I am not thirsty in the least , and this is nicer than any water . '
` Give me a bit , ' asked the rabbit .
So the jackal handed him a very little morsel .
` Oh , how good it is ! '
cried the rabbit ; ` give me a little more , dear friend ! '
But the jackal answered , ` If you really want me to give you some more , you must have your paws tied behind you , and lie on your back , so that I can pour it into your mouth . '
The rabbit did as he was bid , and when he was tied tight and popped on his back , the jackal ran to the spring and drank as much as he wanted .
When he had quite finished he returned to his den .
In the evening the animals all came back , and when they saw the rabbit lying with his paws tied , they said to him : ` Rabbit , how did you let yourself be taken in like this ? '
` It was all the fault of the jackal , ' replied the rabbit ; ` he tied me up like this , and told me he would give me something nice to eat .
It was all a trick just to get at our water . '
` Rabbit , you are no better than an idiot to have let the jackal drink our water when he would not help to find it .
Who shall be our next watchman ?
We must have somebody a little sharper than you ! '
and the little hare called out , ' I will be the watchman . '
The following morning the animals all went their various ways , leaving the little hare to guard the spring .
When they were out of sight the jackal came back .
` Good morning !
good morning , little hare , ' and the little hare politely said , ` Good morning . '
` Can you give me a pinch of snuff ? '
said the jackal . '
I am so sorry , but I have none , ' answered the little hare .
The jackal then came and sat down by the little hare , and unfastened his little bag , pulling out of it a piece of honeycomb .
He licked his lips and exclaimed , ` Oh , little hare , if you only knew how good it is ! '
` What is it ? '
asked the little hare .
` It is something that moistens my throat so deliciously , ' answered the jackal , ` that after I have eaten it I do n't feel thirsty any more , while I am sure that all you other beasts are for ever wanting water . '
` Give me a bit , dear friend , ' asked the little hare .
` Not so fast , ' replied the jackal .
` If you really wish to enjoy what you are eating , you must have your paws tied behind you , and lie on your back , so that I can pour it into your mouth . '
` You can tie them , only be quick , ' said the little hare , and when he was tied tight and popped on his back , the jackal went quietly down to the well , and drank as much as he wanted .
When he had quite finished he returned to his den .
In the evening the animals all came back ; and when they saw the little hare with his paws tied , they said to him : ` Little hare , how did you let yourself be taken in like this ?
Did n't you boast you were very sharp ?
You undertook to guard our water ; now show us how much is left for us to drink ! '
` It is all the fault of the jackal , ' replied the little hare , ` He told me he would give me something nice to eat if I would just let him tie my hands behind my back . '
Then the animals said , ` Who can we trust to mount guard now ? '
And the panther answered , ` Let it be the tortoise . '
The following morning the animals all went their various ways , leaving the tortoise to guard the spring .
When they were out of sight the jackal came back .
` Good morning , tortoise ; good morning . '
But the tortoise took no notice .
` Good morning , tortoise ; good morning . '
But still the tortoise pretended not to hear .
Then the jackal said to himself , ` Well , to-day I have only got to manage a bigger idiot than before .
I shall just kick him on one side , and then go and have a drink . '
So he went up to the tortoise and said to him in a soft voice , ` Tortoise !
tortoise ! '
but the tortoise took no notice .
Then the jackal kicked him out of the way , and went to the well and began to drink , but scarcely had he touched the water , than the tortoise seized him by the leg .
The jackal shrieked out : ` Oh , you will break my leg ! '
but the tortoise only held on the tighter .
The jackal then took his bag and tried to make the tortoise smell the honeycomb he had inside ; but the tortoise turned away his head and smelt nothing .
At last the jackal said to the tortoise , ' I should like to give you my bag and everything in it , ' but the only answer the tortoise made was to grasp the jackal 's leg tighter still .
So matters stood when the other animals came back .
The moment he saw them , the jackal gave a violent tug , and managed to free his leg , and then took to his heels as fast as he could .
And the animals all said to the tortoise : ` Well done , tortoise , you have proved your courage ; now we can drink from our well in peace , as you have got the better of that thieving jackal ! '
-LSB- Contes Populaires des Bassoutos ; recueilli et traduits par E. Jacottet .
Paris : Leroux , diteur . -RSB-
THE BEAR Once on a time there was a king who had an only daughter .
He was so proud and so fond of her , that he was in constant terror that something would happen to her if she went outside the palace , and thus , owing to his great love for her , he forced her to lead the life of a prisoner , shut up within her own rooms .
The princess did not like this at all , and one day she complained about it very bitterly to her nurse .
Now , the nurse was a witch , though the king did not know it .
For some time she listened and tried to soothe the princess ; but when she saw that she would not be comforted , she said to her : ` Your father loves you very dearly , as you know .
Whatever you were to ask from him he would give you .
The one thing he will not grant you is permission to leave the palace .
Now , do as I tell you .
Go to your father and ask him to give you a wooden wheel-barrow , and a bear 's skin .
When you have got them bring them to me , and I will touch them with my magic wand .
The wheel-barrow will then move of itself , and will take you at full speed wherever you want to go , and the bear 's skin will make such a covering for you , that no one will recognise you . '
So the princess did as the witch advised her .
The king , when he heard her strange request , was greatly astonished , and asked her what she meant to do with a wheel-barrow and a bear 's skin .
And the princess answered , ` You never let me leave the house -- at least you might grant me this request . '
So the king granted it , and the princess went back to her nurse , taking the barrow and the bear 's skin with her .
As soon as the witch saw them , she touched them with her magic wand , and in a moment the barrow began to move about in all directions .
The princess next put on the bear 's skin , which so completely changed her appearance , that no one could have known that she was a girl and not a bear .
In this strange attire she seated herself on the barrow , and in a few minutes she found herself far away from the palace , and moving rapidly through a great forest .
Here she stopped the barrow with a sign that the witch had shown her , and hid herself and it in a thick grove of flowering shrubs .
Now it happened that the prince of that country was hunting with his dogs in the forest .
Suddenly he caught sight of the bear hiding among the shrubs , and calling his dogs , hounded them on to attack it .
But the girl , seeing what peril she was in , cried , ` Call off your dogs , or they will kill me .
What harm have I ever done to you ? '
At these words , coming from a bear , the prince was so startled that for a moment he stood stock-still , then he said quite gently , ` Will you come with me ?
I will take you to my home . ' '
I will come gladly , ' replied the bear ; and seating herself on the barrow it at once began to move in the direction of the prince 's palace .
You may imagine the surprise of the prince 's mother when she saw her son return accompanied by a bear , who at once set about doing the house-work better than any servant that the queen had ever seen .
Now it happened that there were great festivities going on in the palace of a neighbouring prince , and at dinner , one day , the prince said to his mother : ` This evening there is to be a great ball , to which I must go . '
And his mother answered , ` Go and dance , and enjoy yourself . '
Suddenly a voice came from under the table , where the bear had rolled itself , as was its wont : ` Let me come to the ball ; I , too , would like to dance . '
But the only answer the prince made was to give the bear a kick , and to drive it out of the room .
-LSB- Illustration : The Prince Kicks The Bear Out Of The Room -RSB- In the evening the prince set off for the ball .
As soon as he had started , the bear came to the queen and implored to be allowed to go to the ball , saying that she would hide herself so well that no one would know she was there .
The kind-hearted queen could not refuse her .
Then the bear ran to her barrow , threw off her bear 's skin , and touched it with the magic wand that the witch had given her .
In a moment the skin was changed into an exquisite ball dress woven out of moon-beams , and the wheel-barrow was changed into a carriage drawn by two prancing steeds .
Stepping into the carriage the princess drove to the grand entrance of the palace .
When she entered the ball-room , in her wondrous dress of moon-beams , she looked so lovely , so different from all the other guests , that everyone wondered who she was , and no one could tell where she had come from .
From the moment he saw her , the prince fell desperately in love with her , and all the evening he would dance with no one else but the beautiful stranger .
When the ball was over , the princess drove away in her carriage at full speed , for she wished to get home in time to change her ball dress into the bear 's skin , and the carriage into the wheel-barrow , before anyone discovered who she was .
The prince , putting spurs into his horse , rode after her , for he was determined not to let her out of his sight .
But suddenly a thick mist arose and hid her from him .
When he reached his home he could talk to his mother of nothing else but the beautiful stranger with whom he had danced so often , and with whom he was so much in love .
And the bear beneath the table smiled to itself , and muttered : ' I am the beautiful stranger ; oh , how I have taken you in ! '
The next evening there was a second ball , and , as you may believe , the prince was determined not to miss it , for he thought he would once more see the lovely girl , and dance with her and talk to her , and make her talk to him , for at the first ball she had never opened her lips .
And , sure enough , as the music struck up the first dance , the beautiful stranger entered the room , looking even more radiant than the night before , for this time her dress was woven out of the rays of the sun .
All evening the prince danced with her , but she never spoke a word .
When the ball was over he tried once more to follow her carriage , that he might know whence she came , but suddenly a great waterspout fell from the sky , and the blinding sheets of rain hid her from his sight .
When he reached his home he told his mother that he had again seen the lovely girl , and that this time she had been even more beautiful than the night before .
And again the bear smiled beneath the table , and muttered : ' I have taken him in a second time , and he has no idea that I am the beautiful girl with whom he is so much in love . '
On the next evening , the prince returned to the palace for the third ball .
And the princess went too , and this time she had changed her bear 's skin into a dress woven out of the starlight , studded all over with gems , and she looked so dazzling and so beautiful , that everyone wondered at her , and said that no one so beautiful had ever been seen before .
And the prince danced with her , and , though he could not induce her to speak , he succeeded in slipping a ring on her finger .
When the ball was over , he followed her carriage , and rode at such a pace that for long he kept it in sight .
Then suddenly a terrible wind arose between him and the carriage , and he could not overtake it .
When he reached his home he said to his mother , ' I do not know what is to become of me ; I think I shall go mad , I am so much in love with that girl , and I have no means of finding out who she is .
I danced with her and I gave her a ring , and yet I do not know her name , nor where I am to find her . '
