So much of himself -- of his imagination and all other powers -- had been lavished on the study of Walter and Elinor that he almost regarded them as creations of his own , like the thousands with which he had peopled the realms of Picture .
Therefore did they flit through the twilight of the woods , hover on the mist of waterfalls , look forth from the mirror of the lake , nor melt away in the noontide sun .
They haunted his pictorial fancy , not as mockeries of life nor pale goblins of the dead , but in the guise of portraits , each with an unalterable expression which his magic had evoked from the caverns of the soul .
He could not recross the Atlantic till he had again beheld the originals of those airy pictures .
`` O glorious Art ! ''
Thus mused the enthusiastic painter as he trod the street .
`` Thou art the image of the Creator 's own .
The innumerable forms that wander in nothingness start into being at thy beck .
The dead live again ; thou recallest them to their old scenes and givest their gray shadows the lustre of a better life , at once earthly and immortal .
Thou snatchest back the fleeting moments of history .
With then there is no past , for at thy touch all that is great becomes for ever present , and illustrious men live through long ages in the visible performance of the very deeds which made them what they are .
O potent Art !
as thou bringest the faintly-revealed past to stand in that narrow strip of sunlight which we call ` now , ' canst thou summon the shrouded future to meet her there ?
Have I not achieved it ?
Am I not thy prophet ? ''
Thus with a proud yet melancholy fervor did he almost cry aloud as he passed through the toilsome street among people that knew not of his reveries nor could understand nor care for them .
It is not good for man to cherish a solitary ambition .
Unless there be those around him by whose example he may regulate himself , his thoughts , desires and hopes will become extravagant and he the semblance -- perhaps the reality -- of a madman .
Reading other bosoms with an acuteness almost preternatural , the painter failed to see the disorder of his own .
`` And this should be the house , '' said he , looking up and down the front before he knocked .
`` Heaven help my brains !
That picture !
Methinks it will never vanish .
Whether I look at the windows or the door , there it is framed within them , painted strongly and glowing in the richest tints -- the faces of the portraits , the figures and action of the sketch ! ''
He knocked .
`` The portraits -- are they within ? ''
inquired he of the domestic ; then , recollecting himself , `` Your master and mistress -- are they at home ? ''
`` They are , sir , '' said the servant , adding , as he noticed that picturesque aspect of which the painter could never divest himself , `` and the portraits too . ''
The guest was admitted into a parlor communicating by a central door with an interior room of the same size .
As the first apartment was empty , he passed to the entrance of the second , within which his eyes were greeted by those living personages , as well as their pictured representatives , who had long been the objects of so singular an interest .
He involuntarily paused on the threshold .
They had not perceived his approach .
Walter and Elinor were standing before the portraits , whence the former had just flung back the rich and voluminous folds of the silken curtain , holding its golden tassel with one hand , while the other grasped that of his bride .
The pictures , concealed for months , gleamed forth again in undiminished splendor , appearing to throw a sombre light across the room rather than to be disclosed by a borrowed radiance .
That of Elinor had been almost prophetic .
A pensiveness , and next a gentle sorrow , had successively dwelt upon her countenance , deepening with the lapse of time into a quiet anguish .
A mixture of affright would now have made it the very expression of the portrait .
Walter 's face was moody and dull or animated only by fitful flashes which left a heavier darkness for their momentary illumination .
He looked from Elinor to her portrait , and thence to his own , in the contemplation of which he finally stood absorbed .
The painter seemed to hear the step of Destiny approaching behind him on its progress toward its victims .
A strange thought darted into his mind .
Was not his own the form in which that Destiny had embodied itself , and he a chief agent of the coming evil which he had foreshadowed ?
Still , Walter remained silent before the picture , communing with it as with his own heart and abandoning himself to the spell of evil influence that the painter had cast upon the features .
Gradually his eyes kindled , while as Elinor watched the increasing wildness of his face her own assumed a look of terror ; and when , at last , he turned upon her , the resemblance of both to their portraits was complete .
`` Our fate is upon us ! ''
howled Walter .
`` Die ! ''
Drawing a knife , he sustained her as she was sinking to the ground , and aimed it at her bosom .
In the action and in the look and attitude of each the painter beheld the figures of his sketch .
The picture , with all its tremendous coloring , was finished .
`` Hold , madman ! ''
cried he , sternly .
He had advanced from the door and interposed himself between the wretched beings with the same sense of power to regulate their destiny as to alter a scene upon the canvas .
He stood like a magician controlling the phantoms which he had evoked .
`` What ! ''
muttered Walter Ludlow as he relapsed from fierce excitement into sullen gloom .
`` Does Fate impede its own decree ? ''
`` Wretched lady , '' said the painter , `` did I not warn you ? ''
`` You did , '' replied Elinor , calmly , as her terror gave place to the quiet grief which it had disturbed .
`` But I loved him . ''
Is there not a deep moral in the tale ?
Could the result of one or all our deeds be shadowed forth and set before us , some would call it fate and hurry onward , others be swept along by their passionate desires , and none be turned aside by the prophetic pictures .
DAVID SWAN .
A FANTASY .
We can be but partially acquainted even with the events which actually influence our course through life and our final destiny .
There are innumerable other events , if such they may be called , which come close upon us , yet pass away without actual results or even betraying their near approach by the reflection of any light or shadow across our minds .
Could we know all the vicissitudes of our fortunes , life would be too full of hope and fear , exultation or disappointment , to afford us a single hour of true serenity .
This idea may be illustrated by a page from the secret history of David Swan .
We have nothing to do with David until we find him , at the age of twenty , on the high road from his native place to the city of Boston , where his uncle , a small dealer in the grocery line , was to take him behind the counter .
Be it enough to say that he was a native of New Hampshire , born of respectable parents , and had received an ordinary school education with a classic finish by a year at Gilmanton Academy .
After journeying on foot from sunrise till nearly noon of a summer 's day , his weariness and the increasing heat determined him to sit down in the first convenient shade and await the coming up of the stage-coach .
As if planted on purpose for him , there soon appeared a little tuft of maples with a delightful recess in the midst , and such a fresh bubbling spring that it seemed never to have sparkled for any wayfarer but David Swan .
Virgin or not , he kissed it with his thirsty lips and then flung himself along the brink , pillowing his head upon some shirts and a pair of pantaloons tied up in a striped cotton handkerchief .
The sunbeams could not reach him ; the dust did not yet rise from the road after the heavy rain of yesterday , and his grassy lair suited the young man better than a bed of down .
The spring murmured drowsily beside him ; the branches waved dreamily across the blue sky overhead , and a deep sleep , perchance hiding dreams within its depths , fell upon David Swan .
But we are to relate events which he did not dream of .
While he lay sound asleep in the shade other people were wide awake , and passed to and fro , afoot , on horseback and in all sorts of vehicles , along the sunny road by his bedchamber .
Some looked neither to the right hand nor the left and knew not that he was there ; some merely glanced that way without admitting the slumberer among their busy thoughts ; some laughed to see how soundly he slept , and several whose hearts were brimming full of scorn ejected their venomous superfluity on David Swan .
A middle-aged widow , when nobody else was near , thrust her head a little way into the recess , and vowed that the young fellow looked charming in his sleep .
A temperance lecturer saw him , and wrought poor David into the texture of his evening 's discourse as an awful instance of dead drunkenness by the roadside .
But censure , praise , merriment , scorn and indifference were all one -- or , rather , all nothing -- to David Swan .
He had slept only a few moments when a brown carriage drawn by a handsome pair of horses bowled easily along and was brought to a standstill nearly in front of David 's resting-place .
A linch-pin had fallen out and permitted one of the wheels to slide off .
The damage was slight and occasioned merely a momentary alarm to an elderly merchant and his wife , who were returning to Boston in the carriage .
While the coachman and a servant were replacing the wheel the lady and gentleman sheltered themselves beneath the maple trees , and there espied the bubbling fountain and David Swan asleep beside it .
Impressed with the awe which the humblest sleeper usually sheds around him , the merchant trod as lightly as the gout would allow , and his spouse took good heed not to rustle her silk gown lest David should start up all of a sudden .
`` How soundly he sleeps ! ''
whispered the old gentleman .
`` From what a depth he draws that easy breath !
Such sleep as that , brought on without an opiate , would be worth more to me than half my income , for it would suppose health and an untroubled mind . ''
`` And youth besides , '' said the lady .
`` Healthy and quiet age does not sleep thus .
Our slumber is no more like his than our wakefulness . ''
The longer they looked , the more did this elderly couple feel interested in the unknown youth to whom the wayside and the maple shade were as a secret chamber with the rich gloom of damask curtains brooding over him .
Perceiving that a stray sunbeam glimmered down upon his face , the lady contrived to twist a branch aside so as to intercept it , and , having done this little act of kindness , she began to feel like a mother to him .
`` Providence seems to have laid him here , '' whispered she to her husband , `` and to have brought us hither to find him , after our disappointment in our cousin 's son .
Methinks I can see a likeness to our departed Henry .
Shall we waken him ? ''
`` To what purpose ? ''
said the merchant , hesitating .
`` We know nothing of the youth 's character . ''
`` That open countenance ! ''
replied his wife , in the same hushed voice , yet earnestly .
`` This innocent sleep ! ''
While these whispers were passing , the sleeper 's heart did not throb , nor his breath become agitated , nor his features betray the least token of interest .
Yet Fortune was bending over him , just ready to let fall a burden of gold .
The old merchant had lost his only son , and had no heir to his wealth except a distant relative with whose conduct he was dissatisfied .
In such cases people sometimes do stranger things than to act the magician and awaken a young man to splendor who fell asleep in poverty .
`` Shall we not waken him ? ''
repeated the lady , persuasively .
`` The coach is ready , sir , '' said the servant , behind .
The old couple started , reddened and hurried away , mutually wondering that they should ever have dreamed of doing anything so very ridiculous .
The merchant threw himself back in the carriage and occupied his mind with the plan of a magnificent asylum for unfortunate men of business .
Meanwhile , David Swan enjoyed his nap .
The carriage could not have gone above a mile or two when a pretty young girl came along with a tripping pace which showed precisely how her little heart was dancing in her bosom .
Perhaps it was this merry kind of motion that caused -- is there any harm in saying it ?
-- her garter to slip its knot .
Conscious that the silken girth -- if silk it were -- was relaxing its hold , she turned aside into the shelter of the maple trees , and there found a young man asleep by the spring .
Blushing as red as any rose that she should have intruded into a gentleman 's bedchamber , and for such a purpose too , she was about to make her escape on tiptoe .
But there was peril near the sleeper .
A monster of a bee had been wandering overhead -- buzz , buzz , buzz -- now among the leaves , now flashing through the strips of sunshine , and now lost in the dark shade , till finally he appeared to be settling on the eyelid of David Swan .
The sting of a bee is sometimes deadly .
As free-hearted as she was innocent , the girl attacked the intruder with her handkerchief , brushed him soundly and drove him from beneath the maple shade .
How sweet a picture !
This good deed accomplished , with quickened breath and a deeper blush she stole a glance at the youthful stranger for whom she had been battling with a dragon in the air .
`` He is handsome ! ''
thought she , and blushed redder yet .
How could it be that no dream of bliss grew so strong within him that , shattered by its very strength , it should part asunder and allow him to perceive the girl among its phantoms ?
Why , at least , did no smile of welcome brighten upon his face ?
She was come , the maid whose soul , according to the old and beautiful idea , had been severed from his own , and whom in all his vague but passionate desires he yearned to meet .
Her only could he love with a perfect love , him only could she receive into the depths of her heart , and now her image was faintly blushing in the fountain by his side ; should it pass away , its happy lustre would never gleam upon his life again .
`` How sound he sleeps ! ''
murmured the girl .
She departed , but did not trip along the road so lightly as when she came .
Now , this girl 's father was a thriving country merchant in the neighborhood , and happened at that identical time to be looking out for just such a young man as David Swan .
Had David formed a wayside acquaintance with the daughter , he would have become the father 's clerk , and all else in natural succession .
So here , again , had good fortune -- the best of fortunes -- stolen so near that her garments brushed against him , and he knew nothing of the matter .
The girl was hardly out of sight when two men turned aside beneath the maple shade .
Both had dark faces set off by cloth caps , which were drawn down aslant over their brows .
Their dresses were shabby , yet had a certain smartness .
These were a couple of rascals who got their living by whatever the devil sent them , and now , in the interim of other business , had staked the joint profits of their next piece of villainy on a game of cards which was to have been decided here under the trees .
But , finding David asleep by the spring , one of the rogues whispered to his fellow : `` Hist !
Do you see that bundle under his head ? ''
The other villain nodded , winked and leered .
`` I 'll bet you a horn of brandy , '' said the first , `` that the chap has either a pocketbook or a snug little hoard of small change stowed away amongst his shirts .
And if not there , we will find it in his pantaloons pocket . ''
`` But how if he wakes ? ''
said the other .
His companion thrust aside his waistcoat , pointed to the handle of a dirk and nodded .
`` So be it ! ''
muttered the second villain .
They approached the unconscious David , and , while one pointed the dagger toward his heart , the other began to search the bundle beneath his head .
Their two faces , grim , wrinkled and ghastly with guilt and fear , bent over their victim , looking horrible enough to be mistaken for fiends should he suddenly awake .
Nay , had the villains glanced aside into the spring , even they would hardly have known themselves as reflected there .
But David Swan had never worn a more tranquil aspect , even when asleep on his mother 's breast .
`` I must take away the bundle , '' whispered one .
`` If he stirs , I 'll strike , '' muttered the other .
But at this moment a dog scenting along the ground came in beneath the maple trees and gazed alternately at each of these wicked men and then at the quiet sleeper .
He then lapped out of the fountain .
`` Pshaw ! ''
said one villain .
`` We can do nothing now .
The dog 's master must be close behind . ''
`` Let 's take a drink and be off , '' said the other .
The man with the dagger thrust back the weapon into his bosom and drew forth a pocket-pistol , but not of that kind which kills by a single discharge .
It was a flask of liquor with a block-tin tumbler screwed upon the mouth .
Each drank a comfortable dram , and left the spot with so many jests and such laughter at their unaccomplished wickedness that they might be said to have gone on their way rejoicing .
In a few hours they had forgotten the whole affair , nor once imagined that the recording angel had written down the crime of murder against their souls in letters as durable as eternity .
As for David Swan , he still slept quietly , neither conscious of the shadow of death when it hung over him nor of the glow of renewed life when that shadow was withdrawn .
He slept , but no longer so quietly as at first .
An hour 's repose had snatched from his elastic frame the weariness with which many hours of toil had burdened it .
Now he stirred , now moved his lips without a sound , now talked in an inward tone to the noonday spectres of his dream .
But a noise of wheels came rattling louder and louder along the road , until it dashed through the dispersing mist of David 's slumber ; and there was the stagecoach .
He started up with all his ideas about him .
`` Halloo , driver !
Take a passenger ? ''
shouted he .
`` Room on top ! ''
answered the driver .
Up mounted David , and bowled away merrily toward Boston without so much as a parting glance at that fountain of dreamlike vicissitude .
He knew not that a phantom of Wealth had thrown a golden hue upon its waters , nor that one of Love had sighed softly to their murmur , nor that one of Death had threatened to crimson them with his blood , all in the brief hour since he lay down to sleep .
Sleeping or waking , we hear not the airy footsteps of the strange things that almost happen .
Does it not argue a superintending Providence that , while viewless and unexpected events thrust themselves continually athwart our path , there should still be regularity enough in mortal life to render foresight even partially available ?
SIGHTS FROM A STEEPLE .
So !
I have climbed high , and my reward is small .
Here I stand with wearied knees -- earth , indeed , at a dizzy depth below , but heaven far , far beyond me still .
Oh that I could soar up into the very zenith , where man never breathed nor eagle ever flew , and where the ethereal azure melts away from the eye and appears only a deepened shade of nothingness !
And yet I shiver at that cold and solitary thought .
What clouds are gathering in the golden west with direful intent against the brightness and the warmth of this summer afternoon ?
They are ponderous air-ships , black as death and freighted with the tempest , and at intervals their thunder -- the signal-guns of that unearthly squadron -- rolls distant along the deep of heaven .
These nearer heaps of fleecy vapor -- methinks I could roll and toss upon them the whole day long -- seem scattered here and there for the repose of tired pilgrims through the sky .
Perhaps -- for who can tell ?
-- beautiful spirits are disporting themselves there , and will bless my mortal eye with the brief appearance of their curly locks of golden light and laughing faces fair and faint as the people of a rosy dream .
Or where the floating mass so imperfectly obstructs the color of the firmament a slender foot and fairy limb resting too heavily upon the frail support may be thrust through and suddenly withdrawn , while longing fancy follows them in vain .
Yonder , again , is an airy archipelago where the sunbeams love to linger in their journeyings through space .
Every one of those little clouds has been dipped and steeped in radiance which the slightest pressure might disengage in silvery profusion like water wrung from a sea-maid 's hair .
Bright they are as a young man 's visions , and , like them , would be realized in dullness , obscurity and tears .
I will look on them no more .
In three parts of the visible circle whose centre is this spire I discern cultivated fields , villages , white country-seats , the waving lines of rivulets , little placid lakes , and here and there a rising ground that would fain be termed a hill .
On the fourth side is the sea , stretching away toward a viewless boundary , blue and calm except where the passing anger of a shadow flits across its surface and is gone .
Hitherward a broad inlet penetrates far into the land ; on the verge of the harbor formed by its extremity is a town , and over it am I , a watchman , all-heeding and unheeded .
Oh that the multitude of chimneys could speak , like those of Madrid , and betray in smoky whispers the secrets of all who since their first foundation have assembled at the hearths within !
Oh that the Limping Devil of Le Sage would perch beside me here , extend his wand over this contiguity of roofs , uncover every chamber and make me familiar with their inhabitants !
The most desirable mode of existence might be that of a spiritualized Paul Pry hovering invisible round man and woman , witnessing their deeds , searching into their hearts , borrowing brightness from their felicity and shade from their sorrow , and retaining no emotion peculiar to himself .
But none of these things are possible ; and if I would know the interior of brick walls or the mystery of human bosoms , I can but guess .
Yonder is a fair street extending north and south .
The stately mansions are placed each on its carpet of verdant grass , and a long flight of steps descends from every door to the pavement .
Ornamental trees -- the broadleafed horse-chestnut , the elm so lofty and bending , the graceful but infrequent willow , and others whereof I know not the names -- grow thrivingly among brick and stone .
The oblique rays of the sun are intercepted by these green citizens and by the houses , so that one side of the street is a shaded and pleasant walk .
On its whole extent there is now but a single passenger , advancing from the upper end , and he , unless distance and the medium of a pocket spyglass do him more than justice , is a fine young man of twenty .
He saunters slowly forward , slapping his left hand with his folded gloves , bending his eyes upon the pavement , and sometimes raising them to throw a glance before him .
Certainly he has a pensive air .
Is he in doubt or in debt ?
Is he -- if the question be allowable -- in love ?
Does he strive to be melancholy and gentlemanlike , or is he merely overcome by the heat ?
But I bid him farewell for the present .
The door of one of the houses -- an aristocratic edifice with curtains of purple and gold waving from the windows -- is now opened , and down the steps come two ladies swinging their parasols and lightly arrayed for a summer ramble .
Both are young , both are pretty ; but methinks the left-hand lass is the fairer of the twain , and , though she be so serious at this moment , I could swear that there is a treasure of gentle fun within her .
They stand talking a little while upon the steps , and finally proceed up the street .
Meantime , as their faces are now turned from me , I may look elsewhere .
Upon that wharf and down the corresponding street is a busy contrast to the quiet scene which I have just noticed .
Business evidently has its centre there , and many a man is wasting the summer afternoon in labor and anxiety , in losing riches or in gaining them , when he would be wiser to flee away to some pleasant country village or shaded lake in the forest or wild and cool sea-beach .
I see vessels unlading at the wharf and precious merchandise strown upon the ground abundantly as at the bottom of the sea -- that market whence no goods return , and where there is no captain nor supercargo to render an account of sales .
Here the clerks are diligent with their paper and pencils and sailors ply the block and tackle that hang over the hold , accompanying their toil with cries long-drawn and roughly melodious till the bales and puncheons ascend to upper air .
At a little distance a group of gentlemen are assembled round the door of a warehouse .
Grave seniors be they , and I would wager -- if it were safe , in these times , to be responsible for any one -- that the least eminent among them might vie with old Vincentio , that incomparable trafficker of Pisa .
I can even select the wealthiest of the company .
It is the elderly personage in somewhat rusty black , with powdered hair the superfluous whiteness of which is visible upon the cape of his coat .
His twenty ships are wafted on some of their many courses by every breeze that blows , and his name , I will venture to say , though I know it not , is a familiar sound among the far-separated merchants of Europe and the Indies .
But I bestow too much of my attention in this quarter .
On looking again to the long and shady walk I perceive that the two fair girls have encountered the young man .
After a sort of shyness in the recognition , he turns back with them .
Moreover , he has sanctioned my taste in regard to his companions by placing himself on the inner side of the pavement , nearest the Venus to whom I , enacting on a steeple-top the part of Paris on the top of Ida , adjudged the golden apple .
In two streets converging at right angles toward my watch-tower I distinguish three different processions .
One is a proud array of voluntary soldiers in bright uniform , resembling , from the height whence I look down , the painted veterans that garrison the windows of a toy-shop .
And yet it stirs my heart .
Their regular advance , their nodding plumes , the sun-flash on their bayonets and musket-barrels , the roll of their drums ascending past me , and the fife ever and anon piercing through , -- these things have wakened a warlike fire , peaceful though I be .
Close to their rear marches a battalion of schoolboys ranged in crooked and irregular platoons , shouldering sticks , thumping a harsh and unripe clatter from an instrument of tin and ridiculously aping the intricate manoeuvres of the foremost band .
Nevertheless , as slight differences are scarcely perceptible from a church-spire , one might be tempted to ask , `` Which are the boys ? ''
or , rather , `` Which the men ? ''
But , leaving these , let us turn to the third procession , which , though sadder in outward show , may excite identical reflections in the thoughtful mind .
It is a funeral -- a hearse drawn by a black and bony steed and covered by a dusty pall , two or three coaches rumbling over the stones , their drivers half asleep , a dozen couple of careless mourners in their every-day attire .
Such was not the fashion of our fathers when they carried a friend to his grave .
There is now no doleful clang of the bell to proclaim sorrow to the town .
Was the King of Terrors more awful in those days than in our own , that wisdom and philosophy have been able to produce this change ?
Not so .
Here is a proof that he retains his proper majesty .
The military men and the military boys are wheeling round the corner , and meet the funeral full in the face .
Immediately the drum is silent , all but the tap that regulates each simultaneous footfall .
The soldiers yield the path to the dusty hearse and unpretending train , and the children quit their ranks and cluster on the sidewalks with timorous and instinctive curiosity .
The mourners enter the churchyard at the base of the steeple and pause by an open grave among the burial-stones ; the lightning glimmers on them as they lower down the coffin , and the thunder rattles heavily while they throw the earth upon its lid .
Verily , the shower is near , and I tremble for the young man and the girls , who have now disappeared from the long and shady street .
How various are the situations of the people covered by the roofs beneath me , and how diversified are the events at this moment befalling them !
The new-born , the aged , the dying , the strong in life and the recent dead are in the chambers of these many mansions .
The full of hope , the happy , the miserable and the desperate dwell together within the circle of my glance .
In some of the houses over which my eyes roam so coldly guilt is entering into hearts that are still tenanted by a debased and trodden virtue ; guilt is on the very edge of commission , and the impending deed might be averted ; guilt is done , and the criminal wonders if it be irrevocable .
There are broad thoughts struggling in my mind , and , were I able to give them distinctness , they would make their way in eloquence .
Lo !
the raindrops are descending .
The clouds within a little time have gathered over all the sky , hanging heavily , as if about to drop in one unbroken mass upon the earth .
At intervals the lightning flashes from their brooding hearts , quivers , disappears , and then comes the thunder , travelling slowly after its twin-born flame .
A strong wind has sprung up , howls through the darkened streets , and raises the dust in dense bodies to rebel against the approaching storm .
The disbanded soldiers fly , the funeral has already vanished like its dead , and all people hurry homeward -- all that have a home -- while a few lounge by the corners or trudge on desperately at their leisure .
In a narrow lane which communicates with the shady street I discern the rich old merchant putting himself to the top of his speed lest the rain should convert his hair-powder to a paste .
Unhappy gentleman !
By the slow vehemence and painful moderation wherewith he journeys , it is but too evident that Podagra has left its thrilling tenderness in his great toe .
But yonder , at a far more rapid pace , come three other of my acquaintance , the two pretty girls and the young man unseasonably interrupted in their walk .
Their footsteps are supported by the risen dust , the wind lends them its velocity , they fly like three sea-birds driven landward by the tempestuous breeze .
The ladies would not thus rival Atalanta if they but knew that any one were at leisure to observe them .
Ah !
as they hasten onward , laughing in the angry face of nature , a sudden catastrophe has chanced .
At the corner where the narrow lane enters into the street they come plump against the old merchant , whose tortoise-motion has just brought him to that point .
He likes not the sweet encounter ; the darkness of the whole air gathers speedily upon his visage , and there is a pause on both sides .
Finally he thrusts aside the youth with little courtesy , seizes an arm of each of the two girls , and plods onward like a magician with a prize of captive fairies .
All this is easy to be understood .
How disconsolate the poor lover stands , regardless of the rain that threatens an exceeding damage to his well-fashioned habiliments , till he catches a backward glance of mirth from a bright eye , and turns away with whatever comfort it conveys !
The old man and his daughters are safely housed , and now the storm lets loose its fury .
In every dwelling I perceive the faces of the chambermaids as they shut down the windows , excluding the impetuous shower and shrinking away from the quick fiery glare .
The large drops descend with force upon the slated roofs and rise again in smoke .
There is a rush and roar as of a river through the air , and muddy streams bubble majestically along the pavement , whirl their dusky foam into the kennel , and disappear beneath iron grates .
Thus did Arethusa sink .
I love not my station here aloft in the midst of the tumult which I am powerless to direct or quell , with the blue lightning wrinkling on my brow and the thunder muttering its first awful syllables in my ear .
I will descend .
Yet let me give another glance to the sea , where the foam breaks out in long white lines upon a broad expanse of blackness or boils up in far-distant points like snowy mountain-tops in the eddies of a flood ; and let me look once more at the green plain and little hills of the country , over which the giant of the storm is striding in robes of mist , and at the town whose obscured and desolate streets might beseem a city of the dead ; and , turning a single moment to the sky , now gloomy as an author 's prospects , I prepare to resume my station on lower earth .
But stay !
A little speck of azure has widened in the western heavens ; the sunbeams find a passage and go rejoicing through the tempest , and on yonder darkest cloud , born like hallowed hopes of the glory of another world and the trouble and tears of this , brightens forth the rainbow .
THE HOLLOW OF THE THREE HILLS .
In those strange old times when fantastic dreams and madmen 's reveries were realized among the actual circumstances of life , two persons met together at an appointed hour and place .
One was a lady graceful in form and fair of feature , though pale and troubled and smitten with an untimely blight in what should have been the fullest bloom of her years ; the other was an ancient and meanly-dressed woman of ill-favored aspect , and so withered , shrunken and decrepit that even the space since she began to decay must have exceeded the ordinary term of human existence .
In the spot where they encountered no mortal could observe them .
Three little hills stood near each other , and down in the midst of them sunk a hollow basin almost mathematically circular , two or three hundred feet in breadth and of such depth that a stately cedar might but just be visible above the sides .
Dwarf pines were numerous upon the hills and partly fringed the outer verge of the intermediate hollow , within which there was nothing but the brown grass of October and here and there a tree-trunk that had fallen long ago and lay mouldering with no green successor from its roots .
One of these masses of decaying wood , formerly a majestic oak , rested close beside a pool of green and sluggish water at the bottom of the basin .
Such scenes as this -LRB- so gray tradition tells -RRB- were once the resort of a power of evil and his plighted subjects , and here at midnight or on the dim verge of evening they were said to stand round the mantling pool disturbing its putrid waters in the performance of an impious baptismal rite .
The chill beauty of an autumnal sunset was now gilding the three hill-tops , whence a paler tint stole down their sides into the hollow .
`` Here is our pleasant meeting come to pass , '' said the aged crone , `` according as thou hast desired .
Say quickly what thou wouldst have of me , for there is but a short hour that we may tarry here . ''
As the old withered woman spoke a smile glimmered on her countenance like lamplight on the wall of a sepulchre .
The lady trembled and cast her eyes upward to the verge of the basin , as if meditating to return with her purpose unaccomplished .
But it was not so ordained .
`` I am stranger in this land , as you know , '' said she , at length .
`` Whence I come it matters not , but I have left those behind me with whom my fate was intimately bound , and from whom I am cut off for ever .
There is a weight in my bosom that I can not away with , and I have come hither to inquire of their welfare . ''
`` And who is there by this green pool that can bring thee news from the ends of the earth ? ''
cried the old woman , peering into the lady 's face .
`` Not from my lips mayst thou hear these tidings ; yet be thou bold , and the daylight shall not pass away from yonder hilltop before thy wish be granted . ''
`` I will do your bidding though I die , '' replied the lady , desperately .
The old woman seated herself on the trunk of the fallen tree , threw aside the hood that shrouded her gray locks and beckoned her companion to draw near .
`` Kneel down , '' she said , `` and lay your forehead on my knees . ''
She hesitated a moment , but the anxiety that had long been kindling burned fiercely up within her .
As she knelt down the border of her garment was dipped into the pool ; she laid her forehead on the old woman 's knees , and the latter drew a cloak about the lady 's face , so that she was in darkness .
Then she heard the muttered words of prayer , in the midst of which she started and would have arisen .
`` Let me flee !
Let me flee and hide myself , that they may not look upon me ! ''
she cried .
But , with returning recollection , she hushed herself and was still as death , for it seemed as if other voices , familiar in infancy and unforgotten through many wanderings and in all the vicissitudes of her heart and fortune , were mingling with the accents of the prayer .
At first the words were faint and indistinct -- not rendered so by distance , but rather resembling the dim pages of a book which we strive to read by an imperfect and gradually brightening light .
In such a manner , as the prayer proceeded , did those voices strengthen upon the ear , till at length the petition ended , and the conversation of an aged man and of a woman broken and decayed like himself became distinctly audible to the lady as she knelt .
But those strangers appeared not to stand in the hollow depth between the three hills .
Their voices were encompassed and re-echoed by the walls of a chamber the windows of which were rattling in the breeze ; the regular vibration of a clock , the crackling of a fire and the tinkling of the embers as they fell among the ashes rendered the scene almost as vivid as if painted to the eye .
By a melancholy hearth sat these two old people , the man calmly despondent , the woman querulous and tearful , and their words were all of sorrow .
They spoke of a daughter , a wanderer they knew not where , bearing dishonor along with her and leaving shame and affliction to bring their gray heads to the grave .
They alluded also to other and more recent woe , but in the midst of their talk their voices seemed to melt into the sound of the wind sweeping mournfully among the autumn leaves ; and when the lady lifted her eyes , there was she kneeling in the hollow between three hills .
`` A weary and lonesome time yonder old couple have of it , '' remarked the old woman , smiling in the lady 's face .
`` And did you also hear them ? ''
exclaimed she , a sense of intolerable humiliation triumphing over her agony and fear .
`` Yea , and we have yet more to hear , '' replied the old woman , `` wherefore cover thy face quickly . ''
Again the withered hag poured forth the monotonous words of a prayer that was not meant to be acceptable in heaven , and soon in the pauses of her breath strange murmurings began to thicken , gradually increasing , so as to drown and overpower the charm by which they grew .
Shrieks pierced through the obscurity of sound and were succeeded by the singing of sweet female voices , which in their turn gave way to a wild roar of laughter broken suddenly by groanings and sobs , forming altogether a ghastly confusion of terror and mourning and mirth .
Chains were rattling , fierce and stern voices uttered threats and the scourge resounded at their command .
All these noises deepened and became substantial to the listener 's ear , till she could distinguish every soft and dreamy accent of the love-songs that died causelessly into funeral-hymns .
She shuddered at the unprovoked wrath which blazed up like the spontaneous kindling of flume , and she grew faint at the fearful merriment raging miserably around her .
In the midst of this wild scene , where unbound passions jostled each other in a drunken career , there was one solemn voice of a man , and a manly and melodious voice it might once have been .
He went to and fro continually , and his feet sounded upon the floor .
In each member of that frenzied company whose own burning thoughts had become their exclusive world he sought an auditor for the story of his individual wrong , and interpreted their laughter and tears as his reward of scorn or pity .
He spoke of woman 's perfidy , of a wife who had broken her holiest vows , of a home and heart made desolate .
Even as he went on , the shout , the laugh , the shriek , the sob , rose up in unison , till they changed into the hollow , fitful and uneven sound of the wind as it fought among the pine trees on those three lonely hills .
The lady looked up , and there was the withered woman smiling in her face .
`` Couldst thou have thought there were such merry times in a mad-house ? ''
inquired the latter .
`` True , true ! ''
said the lady to herself ; `` there is mirth within its walls , but misery , misery without . ''
`` Wouldst thou hear more ? ''
demanded the old woman .
`` There is one other voice I would fain listen to again , '' replied the lady , faintly .
`` Then lay down thy head speedily upon my knees , that thou mayst get thee hence before the hour be past . ''
The golden skirts of day were yet lingering upon the hills , but deep shades obscured the hollow and the pool , as if sombre night wore rising thence to overspread the world .
Again that evil woman began to weave her spell .
Long did it proceed unanswered , till the knolling of a bell stole in among the intervals of her words like a clang that had travelled far over valley and rising ground and was just ready to die in the air .
The lady shook upon her companion 's knees as she heard that boding sound .
Stronger it grew , and sadder , and deepened into the tone of a death-bell , knolling dolefully from some ivy-mantled tower and bearing tidings of mortality and woe to the cottage , to the hall and to the solitary wayfarer , that all might weep for the doom appointed in turn to them .
Then came a measured tread , passing slowly , slowly on , as of mourners with a coffin , their garments trailing on the ground , so that the ear could measure the length of their melancholy array .
Before them went the priest , reading the burial-service , while the leaves of his book were rustling in the breeze .
And though no voice but his was heard to speak aloud , still there were revilings and anathemas , whispered but distinct , from women and from men , breathed against the daughter who had wrung the aged hearts of her parents , the wife who had betrayed the trusting fondness of her husband , the mother who had sinned against natural affection and left her child to die .
The sweeping sound of the funeral train faded away like a thin vapor , and the wind , that just before had seemed to shake the coffin-pall , moaned sadly round the verge of the hollow between three hills .
But when the old woman stirred the kneeling lady , she lifted not her head .
`` Here has been a sweet hour 's sport ! ''
said the withered crone , chuckling to herself .
THE TOLL-GATHERER 'S DAY .
A SKETCH OF TRANSITORY LIFE .
Methinks , for a person whose instinct bids him rather to pore over the current of life than to plunge into its tumultuous waves , no undesirable retreat were a toll-house beside some thronged thoroughfare of the land .
In youth , perhaps , it is good for the observer to run about the earth , to leave the track of his footsteps far and wide , to mingle himself with the action of numberless vicissitudes , and , finally , in some calm solitude to feed a musing spirit on all that he has seen and felt .
But there are natures too indolent or too sensitive to endure the dust , the sunshine or the rain , the turmoil of moral and physical elements , to which all the wayfarers of the world expose themselves .
For such a man how pleasant a miracle could life be made to roll its variegated length by the threshold of his own hermitage , and the great globe , as it were , perform its revolutions and shift its thousand scenes before his eyes without whirling him onward in its course !
If any mortal be favored with a lot analogous to this , it is the toll-gatherer .
So , at least , have I often fancied while lounging on a bench at the door of a small square edifice which stands between shore and shore in the midst of a long bridge .
Beneath the timbers ebbs and flows an arm of the sea , while above , like the life-blood through a great artery , the travel of the north and east is continually throbbing .
Sitting on the aforesaid bench , I amuse myself with a conception , illustrated by numerous pencil-sketches in the air , of the toll-gatherer 's day .
In the morning -- dim , gray , dewy summer 's morn -- the distant roll of ponderous wheels begins to mingle with my old friend 's slumbers , creaking more and more harshly through the midst of his dream and gradually replacing it with realities .
Hardly conscious of the change from sleep to wakefulness , he finds himself partly clad and throwing wide the toll-gates for the passage of a fragrant load of hay .
The timbers groan beneath the slow-revolving wheels ; one sturdy yeoman stalks beside the oxen , and , peering from the summit of the hay , by the glimmer of the half-extinguished lantern over the toll-house is seen the drowsy visage of his comrade , who has enjoyed a nap some ten miles long .
The toll is paid ; creak , creak , again go the wheels , and the huge hay-mow vanishes into the morning mist .
As yet nature is but half awake , and familiar objects appear visionary .
But yonder , dashing from the shore with a rattling thunder of the wheels and a confused clatter of hoofs , comes the never-tiring mail , which has hurried onward at the same headlong , restless rate all through the quiet night .
The bridge resounds in one continued peal as the coach rolls on without a pause , merely affording the toll-gatherer a glimpse at the sleepy passengers , who now bestir their torpid limbs and snuff a cordial in the briny air .
The morn breathes upon them and blushes , and they forget how wearily the darkness toiled away .
And behold now the fervid day in his bright chariot , glittering aslant over the waves , nor scorning to throw a tribute of his golden beams on the toll-gatherer 's little hermitage .
The old man looks eastward , and -LRB- for he is a moralizer -RRB- frames a simile of the stage-coach and the sun .
While the world is rousing itself we may glance slightly at the scene of our sketch .
It sits above the bosom of the broad flood -- a spot not of earth , but in the midst of waters which rush with a murmuring sound among the massive beams beneath .
Over the door is a weatherbeaten board inscribed with the rates of toll in letters so nearly effaced that the gilding of the sunshine can hardly make them legible .
Beneath the window is a wooden bench on which a long succession of weary wayfarers have reposed themselves .
Peeping within-doors , we perceive the whitewashed walls bedecked with sundry lithographic prints and advertisements of various import and the immense show-bill of a wandering caravan .
And there sits our good old toll-gatherer , glorified by the early sunbeams .
He is a man , as his aspect may announce , of quiet soul and thoughtful , shrewd , yet simple mind , who of the wisdom which the passing world scatters along the wayside has gathered a reasonable store .
Now the sun smiles upon the landscape and earth smiles back again upon the sky .
Frequent now are the travellers .
The toll-gatherer 's practised ear can distinguish the weight of every vehicle , the number of its wheels and how many horses beat the resounding timbers with their iron tramp .
Here , in a substantial family chaise , setting forth betimes to take advantage of the dewy road , come a gentleman and his wife with their rosy-cheeked little girl sitting gladsomely between them .
The bottom of the chaise is heaped with multifarious bandboxes and carpet-bags , and beneath the axle swings a leathern trunk dusty with yesterday 's journey .
Next appears a four-wheeled carryall peopled with a round half dozen of pretty girls , all drawn by a single horse and driven by a single gentleman .
Luckless wight doomed through a whole summer day to be the butt of mirth and mischief among the frolicsome maidens !
Bolt upright in a sulky rides a thin , sour-visaged man who as he pays his toll hands the toll-gatherer a printed card to stick upon the wall .
The vinegar-faced traveller proves to be a manufacturer of pickles .
Now paces slowly from timber to timber a horseman clad in black , with a meditative brow , as of one who , whithersoever his steed might bear him , would still journey through a mist of brooding thought .
He is a country preacher going to labor at a protracted meeting .
The next object passing townward is a butcher 's cart canopied with its arch of snow-white cotton .
Behind comes a `` sauceman '' driving a wagon full of new potatoes , green ears of corn , beets , carrots , turnips and summer squashes , and next two wrinkled , withered witch-looking old gossips in an antediluvian chaise drawn by a horse of former generations and going to peddle out a lot of huckleberries .
See , there , a man trundling a wheelbarrow-load of lobsters .
And now a milk-cart rattles briskly onward , covered with green canvas and conveying the contributions of a whole herd of cows , in large tin canisters .
But let all these pay their toll and pass .
Here comes a spectacle that causes the old toll-gatherer to smile benignantly , as if the travellers brought sunshine with them and lavished its gladsome influence all along the road .
It is a barouche of the newest style , the varnished panels of which reflect the whole moving panorama of the landscape , and show a picture , likewise , of our friend with his visage broadened , so that his meditative smile is transformed to grotesque merriment .
Within sits a youth fresh as the summer morn , and beside him a young lady in white with white gloves upon her slender hands and a white veil flowing down over her face .
But methinks her blushing cheek burns through the snowy veil .
Another white-robed virgin sits in front .
And who are these on whom , and on all that appertains to them , the dust of earth seems never to have settled ?
Two lovers whom the priest has blessed this blessed morn and sent them forth , with one of the bride-maids , on the matrimonial tour .
-- Take my blessing too , ye happy ones !
May the sky not frown upon you nor clouds bedew you with their chill and sullen rain !
May the hot sun kindle no fever in your hearts !
May your whole life 's pilgrimage be as blissful as this first day 's journey , and its close be gladdened with even brighter anticipations than those which hallow your bridal-night !
They pass , and ere the reflection of their joy has faded from his face another spectacle throws a melancholy shadow over the spirit of the observing man .
In a close carriage sits a fragile figure muffled carefully and shrinking even from the mild breath of summer .
She leans against a manly form , and his arm enfolds her as if to guard his treasure from some enemy .
Let but a few weeks pass , and when he shall strive to embrace that loved one , he will press only desolation to his heart .
And now has Morning gathered up her dewy pearls and fled away .
The sun rolls blazing through the sky , and can not find a cloud to cool his face with .
The horses toil sluggishly along the bridge , and heave their glistening sides in short quick pantings when the reins are tightened at the toll-house .
Glisten , too , the faces of the travellers .
Their garments are thickly bestrewn with dust ; their whiskers and hair look hoary ; their throats are choked with the dusty atmosphere which they have left behind them .
No air is stirring on the road .
Nature dares draw no breath lest she should inhale a stifling cloud of dust .
`` A hot and dusty day ! ''
cry the poor pilgrims as they wipe their begrimed foreheads and woo the doubtful breeze which the river bears along with it .
-- `` Awful hot !
Dreadful dusty ! ''
answers the sympathetic toll-gatherer .
They start again to pass through the fiery furnace , while he re-enters his cool hermitage and besprinkles it with a pail of briny water from the stream beneath .
He thinks within himself that the sun is not so fierce here as elsewhere , and that the gentle air doth not forget him in these sultry days .
Yes , old friend , and a quiet heart will make a dog-day temperate .
He hears a weary footstep , and perceives a traveller with pack and staff , who sits down upon the hospitable bench and removes the hat from his wet brow .
The toll-gatherer administers a cup of cold water , and , discovering his guest to be a man of homely sense , he engages him in profitable talk , uttering the maxims of a philosophy which he has found in his own soul , but knows not how it came there .
And as the wayfarer makes ready to resume his journey he tells him a sovereign remedy for blistered feet .
Now comes the noontide hour -- of all the hours , nearest akin to midnight , for each has its own calmness and repose .
Soon , however , the world begins to turn again upon its axis , and it seems the busiest epoch of the day , when an accident impedes the march of sublunary things .
The draw being lifted to permit the passage of a schooner laden with wood from the Eastern forests , she sticks immovably right athwart the bridge .
Meanwhile , on both sides of the chasm a throng of impatient travellers fret and fume .
Here are two sailors in a gig with the top thrown back , both puffing cigars and swearing all sorts of forecastle oaths ; there , in a smart chaise , a dashingly-dressed gentleman and lady , he from a tailor 's shop-board and she from a milliner 's back room -- the aristocrats of a summer afternoon .
And what are the haughtiest of us but the ephemeral aristocrats of a summer 's day ?
Here is a tin-pedler whose glittering ware bedazzles all beholders like a travelling meteor or opposition sun , and on the other side a seller of spruce beer , which brisk liquor is confined in several dozen of stone bottles .
Here conic a party of ladies on horseback , in green ridings habits , and gentlemen attendant , and there a flock of sheep for the market , pattering over the bridge with a multitude nous clatter of their little hoofs ; here a Frenchman with a hand-organ on his shoulder , and there an itinerant Swiss jeweller .
On this side , heralded by a blast of clarions and bugles , appears a train of wagons conveying all the wild beasts of a caravan ; and on that a company of summer soldiers marching from village to village on a festival campaign , attended by the `` brass band . ''
Now look at the scene , and it presents an emblem of the mysterious confusion , the apparently insolvable riddle , in which individuals , or the great world itself , seem often to be involved .
What miracle shall set all things right again ?
But see !
the schooner has thrust her bulky carcase through the chasm ; the draw descends ; horse and foot pass onward and leave the bridge vacant from end to end .
`` And thus , '' muses the toll-gatherer , `` have I found it with all stoppages , even though the universe seemed to be at a stand . ''
The sage old man !
Far westward now the reddening sun throws a broad sheet of splendor across the flood , and to the eyes of distant boatmen gleams brightly among the timbers of the bridge .
Strollers come from the town to quaff the freshening breeze .
One or two let down long lines and haul up flapping flounders or cunners or small cod , or perhaps an eel .
Others , and fair girls among them , with the flush of the hot day still on their cheeks , bend over the railing and watch the heaps of seaweed floating upward with the flowing tide .
The horses now tramp heavily along the bridge and wistfully bethink them of their stables .
-- Rest , rest , thou weary world !
for to-morrow 's round of toil and pleasure will be as wearisome as to-day 's has been , yet both shall bear thee onward a day 's march of eternity .
-- Now the old toll-gatherer looks seaward and discerns the lighthouse kindling on a far island , and the stars , too , kindling in the sky , as if but a little way beyond ; and , mingling reveries of heaven with remembrances of earth , the whole procession of mortal travellers , all the dusty pilgrimage which he has witnessed , seems like a flitting show of phantoms for his thoughtful soul to muse upon .
THE VISION OF THE FOUNTAIN .
At fifteen I became a resident in a country village more than a hundred miles from home .
The morning after my arrival -- a September morning , but warm and bright as any in July -- I rambled into a wood of oaks with a few walnut trees intermixed , forming the closest shade above my head .
The ground was rocky , uneven , overgrown with bushes and clumps of young saplings and traversed only by cattle-paths .
The track which I chanced to follow led me to a crystal spring with a border of grass as freshly green as on May morning , and overshadowed by the limb of a great oak .
One solitary sunbeam found its way down and played like a goldfish in the water .
From my childhood I have loved to gaze into a spring .
The water filled a circular basin , small but deep and set round with stones , some of which were covered with slimy moss , the others naked and of variegated hue -- reddish , white and brown .
The bottom was covered with coarse sand , which sparkled in the lonely sunbeam and seemed to illuminate the spring with an unborrowed light .
In one spot the gush of the water violently agitated the sand , but without obscuring the fountain or breaking the glassiness of its surface .
It appeared as if some living creature were about to emerge -- the naiad of the spring , perhaps , in the shape of a beautiful young woman with a gown of filmy water-moss , a belt of rainbow-drops and a cold , pure , passionless countenance .
How would the beholder shiver , pleasantly yet fearfully , to see her sitting on one of the stones , paddling her white feet in the ripples and throwing up water to sparkle in the sun !
Wherever she laid her hands on grass and flowers , they would immediately be moist , as with morning dew .
Then would she set about her labors , like a careful housewife , to clear the fountain of withered leaves , and bits of slimy wood , and old acorns from the oaks above , and grains of corn left by cattle in drinking , till the bright sand in the bright water were like a treasury of diamonds .
But , should the intruder approach too near , he would find only the drops of a summer shower glistening about the spot where he had seen her .
Reclining on the border of grass where the dewy goddess should have been , I bent forward , and a pair of eyes met mine within the watery mirror .
They were the reflection of my own .
I looked again , and , lo !
another face , deeper in the fountain than my own image , more distinct in all the features , yet faint as thought .
The vision had the aspect of a fair young girl with locks of paly gold .
A mirthful expression laughed in the eyes and dimpled over the whole shadowy countenance , till it seemed just what a fountain would be if , while dancing merrily into the sunshine , it should assume the shape of woman .
Through the dim rosiness of the cheeks I could see the brown leaves , the slimy twigs , the acorns and the sparkling sand .
The solitary sunbeam was diffused among the golden hair , which melted into its faint brightness and became a glory round that head so beautiful .
My description can give no idea how suddenly the fountain was thus tenanted and how soon it was left desolate .
I breathed , and there was the face ; I held my breath , and it was gone .
Had it passed away or faded into nothing ?
I doubted whether it had ever been .
My sweet readers , what a dreamy and delicious hour did I spend where that vision found and left me !
For a long time I sat perfectly still , waiting till it should reappear , and fearful that the slightest motion , or even the flutter of my breath , might frighten it away .
Thus have I often started from a pleasant dream , and then kept quiet in hopes to wile it back .
Deep were my musings as to the race and attributes of that ethereal being .
Had I created her ?
Was she the daughter of my fancy , akin to those strange shapes which peep under the lids of children 's eyes ?
And did her beauty gladden me for that one moment and then die ?
Or was she a water-nymph within the fountain , or fairy or woodland goddess peeping over my shoulder , or the ghost of some forsaken maid who had drowned herself for love ?
Or , in good truth , had a lovely girl with a warm heart and lips that would bear pressure stolen softly behind me and thrown her image into the spring ?
I watched and waited , but no vision came again .
I departed , but with a spell upon me which drew me back that same afternoon to the haunted spring .
There was the water gushing , the sand sparkling and the sunbeam glimmering .
There the vision was not , but only a great frog , the hermit of that solitude , who immediately withdrew his speckled snout and made himself invisible -- all except a pair of long legs -- beneath a stone .
Methought he had a devilish look .
I could have slain him as an enchanter who kept the mysterious beauty imprisoned in the fountain .
Sad and heavy , I was returning to the village .
Between me and the church-spire rose a little hill , and on its summit a group of trees insulated from all the rest of the wood , with their own share of radiance hovering on them from the west and their own solitary shadow falling to the east .
The afternoon being far declined , the sunshine was almost pensive and the shade almost cheerful ; glory and gloom were mingled in the placid light , as if the spirits of the Day and Evening had met in friendship under those trees and found themselves akin .
I was admiring the picture when the shape of a young girl emerged from behind the clump of oaks .
My heart knew her : it was the vision , but so distant and ethereal did she seem , so unmixed with earth , so imbued with the pensive glory of the spot where she was standing , that my spirit sunk within me , sadder than before .
How could I ever reach her ?
While I gazed a sudden shower came pattering down upon the leaves .
In a moment the air was full of brightness , each raindrop catching a portion of sunlight as it fell , and the whole gentle shower appearing like a mist , just substantial enough to bear the burden of radiance .
A rainbow vivid as Niagara 's was painted in the air .
Its southern limb came down before the group of trees and enveloped the fair vision as if the hues of heaven were the only garment for her beauty .
When the rainbow vanished , she who had seemed a part of it was no longer there .
Was her existence absorbed in nature 's loveliest phenomenon , and did her pure frame dissolve away in the varied light ?
Yet I would not despair of her return , for , robed in the rainbow , she was the emblem of Hope .
Thus did the vision leave me , and many a doleful day succeeded to the parting moment .
By the spring and in the wood and on the hill and through the village , at dewy sunrise , burning noon , and at that magic hour of sunset , when she had vanished from my sight , I sought her , but in vain .
Weeks came and went , months rolled away , and she appeared not in them .
I imparted my mystery to none , but wandered to and fro or sat in solitude like one that had caught a glimpse of heaven and could take no more joy on earth .
I withdrew into an inner world where my thoughts lived and breathed , and the vision in the midst of them .
Without intending it , I became at once the author and hero of a romance , conjuring up rivals , imagining events , the actions of others and my own , and experiencing every change of passion , till jealousy and despair had their end in bliss .
Oh , had I the burning fancy of my early youth with manhood 's colder gift , the power of expression , your hearts , sweet ladies , should flutter at my tale .
In the middle of January I was summoned home .
The day before my departure , visiting the spots which had been hallowed by the vision , I found that the spring had a frozen bosom , and nothing but the snow and a glare of winter sunshine on the hill of the rainbow .
`` Let me hope , '' thought I , `` or my heart will be as icy as the fountain and the whole world as desolate as this snowy hill . ''
Most of the day was spent in preparing for the journey , which was to commence at four o'clock the next morning .
About an hour after supper , when all was in readiness , I descended from my chamber to the sitting-room to take leave of the old clergyman and his family with whom I had been an inmate .
A gust of wind blew out my lamp as I passed through the entry .
According to their invariable custom -- so pleasant a one when the fire blazes cheerfully -- the family were sitting in the parlor with no other light than what came from the hearth .
As the good clergyman 's scanty stipend compelled him to use all sorts of economy , the foundation of his fires was always a large heap of tan , or ground bark , which would smoulder away from morning till night with a dull warmth and no flame .
This evening the heap of tan was newly put on and surmounted with three sticks of red oak full of moisture , and a few pieces of dry pine that had not yet kindled .
There was no light except the little that came sullenly from two half-burnt brands , without even glimmering on the andirons .
But I knew the position of the old minister 's arm-chair , and also where his wife sat with her knitting-work , and how to avoid his two daughters -- one a stout country lass , and the other a consumptive girl .
Groping through the gloom , I found my own place next to that of the son , a learned collegian who had come home to keep school in the village during the winter vacation .
I noticed that there was less room than usual to-night between the collegian 's chair and mine .
As people are always taciturn in the dark , not a word was said for some time after my entrance .
Nothing broke the stillness but the regular click of the matron 's knitting-needles .
At times the fire threw out a brief and dusky gleam which twinkled on the old man 's glasses and hovered doubtfully round our circle , but was far too faint to portray the individuals who composed it .
Were we not like ghosts ?
Dreamy as the scene was , might it not be a type of the mode in which departed people who had known and loved each other here would hold communion in eternity ?
We were aware of each other 's presence , not by sight nor sound nor touch , but by an inward consciousness .
Would it not be so among the dead ?
The silence was interrupted by the consumptive daughter addressing a remark to some one in the circle whom she called Rachel .
Her tremulous and decayed accents were answered by a single word , but in a voice that made me start and bend toward the spot whence it had proceeded .
Had I ever heard that sweet , low tone ?
If not , why did it rouse up so many old recollections , or mockeries of such , the shadows of things familiar yet unknown , and fill my mind with confused images of her features who had spoken , though buried in the gloom of the parlor ?
Whom had my heart recognized , that it throbbed so ?
I listened to catch her gentle breathing , and strove by the intensity of my gaze to picture forth a shape where none was visible .
Suddenly the dry pine caught ; the fire blazed up with a ruddy glow , and where the darkness had been , there was she -- the vision of the fountain .
A spirit of radiance only , she had vanished with the rainbow and appeared again in the firelight , perhaps to flicker with the blaze and be gone .
Vet her cheek was rosy and lifelike , and her features , in the bright warmth of the room , were even sweeter and tenderer than my recollection of them .
She knew me .
The mirthful expression that had laughed in her eyes and dimpled over her countenance when I beheld her faint beauty in the fountain was laughing and dimpling there now .
One moment our glance mingled ; the next , down rolled the heap of tan upon the kindled wood , and darkness snatched away that daughter of the light , and gave her back to me no more !
Fair ladies , there is nothing more to tell .
Must the simple mystery be revealed , then , that Rachel was the daughter of the village squire and had left home for a boarding-school the morning after I arrived and returned the day before my departure ?
If I transformed her to an angel , it is what every youthful lover does for his mistress .
Therein consists the essence of my story .
But slight the change , sweet maids , to make angels of yourselves .
FANCY 'S SHOW-BOX .
A MORALITY .
What is guilt ?
A stain upon the soul .
And it is a point of vast interest whether the soul may contract such stains in all their depth and flagrancy from deeds which may have been plotted and resolved upon , but which physically have never had existence .
Must the fleshly hand and visible frame of man set its seal to the evil designs of the soul , in order to give them their entire validity against the sinner ?
Or , while none but crimes perpetrated are cognizable before an earthly tribunal , will guilty thoughts -- of which guilty deeds are no more than shadows , -- will these draw down the full weight of a condemning sentence in the supreme court of eternity ?
In the solitude of a midnight chamber or in a desert afar from men or in a church while the body is kneeling the soul may pollute itself even with those crimes which we are accustomed to deem altogether carnal .
If this be true , it is a fearful truth .
Let us illustrate the subject by an imaginary example .
A venerable gentleman -- one Mr. Smith -- who had long been regarded as a pattern of moral excellence was warming his aged blood with a glass or two of generous wine .
His children being gone forth about their worldly business and his grandchildren at school , he sat alone in a deep luxurious arm-chair with his feet beneath a richly-carved mahogany table .
Some old people have a dread of solitude , and when better company may not be had rejoice even to hear the quiet breathing of a babe asleep upon the carpet .
But Mr. Smith , whose silver hair was the bright symbol of a life unstained except by such spots as are inseparable from human nature -- he had no need of a babe to protect him by its purity , nor of a grown person to stand between him and his own soul .
Nevertheless , either manhood must converse with age , or womanhood must soothe him with gentle cares , or infancy must sport around his chair , or his thoughts will stray into the misty region of the past and the old man be chill and sad .
Wine will not always cheer him .
Such might have been the case with Mr. Smith , when , through the brilliant medium of his glass of old Madeira , he beheld three figures entering the room .
These were Fancy , who had assumed the garb and aspect of an itinerant showman , with a box of pictures on her back ; and Memory , in the likeness of a clerk , with a pen behind her ear , an inkhorn at her buttonhole and a huge manuscript volume beneath her arm ; and lastly , behind the other two , a person shrouded in a dusky mantle which concealed both face and form .
But Mr. Smith had a shrewd idea that it was Conscience .
How kind of Fancy , Memory and Conscience to visit the old gentleman just as he was beginning to imagine that the wine had neither so bright a sparkle nor so excellent a flavor as when himself and the liquor were less aged !
Through the dim length of the apartment , where crimson curtains muffled the glare of sunshine and created a rich obscurity , the three guests drew near the silver-haired old man .
Memory , with a finger between the leaves of her huge volume , placed herself at his right hand ; Conscience , with her face still hidden in the dusky mantle , took her station on the left , so as to be next his heart ; while Fancy set down her picture-box upon the table with the magnifying-glass convenient to his eye .
We can sketch merely the outlines of two or three out of the many pictures which at the pulling of a string successively peopled the box with the semblances of living scenes .
One was a moonlight picture , in the background a lowly dwelling , and in front , partly shadowed by a tree , yet besprinkled with flakes of radiance , two youthful figures , male and female .
The young man stood with folded arms , a haughty smile upon his lip and a gleam of triumph in his eye as he glanced downward at the kneeling girl .
She was almost prostrate at his feet , evidently sinking under a weight of shame and anguish which hardly allowed her to lift her clasped hands in supplication .
Her eyes she could not lift .
But neither her agony , nor the lovely features on which it was depicted , nor the slender grace of the form which it convulsed , appeared to soften the obduracy of the young man .
He was the personification of triumphant scorn .
Now , strange to say , as old Mr. Smith peeped through the magnifying-glass , which made the objects start out from the canvas with magical deception , he began to recognize the farmhouse , the tree and both the figures of the picture .
The young man in times long past had often met his gaze within the looking-glass ; the girl was the very image of his first love -- his cottage-love , his Martha Burroughs .
Mr. Smith was scandalized .
`` Oh , vile and slanderous picture ! ''
he exclaims .
`` When have I triumphed over ruined innocence ?
Was not Martha wedded in her teens to David Tomkins , who won her girlish love and long enjoyed her affection as a wife ?
And ever since his death she has lived a reputable widow ! ''
Meantime , Memory was turning over the leaves of her volume , rustling them to and fro with uncertain fingers , until among the earlier pages she found one which had reference to this picture .
She reads it close to the old gentleman 's ear : it is a record merely of sinful thought which never was embodied in an act , but , while Memory is reading , Conscience unveils her face and strikes a dagger to the heart of Mr. Smith .
Though not a death-blow , the torture was extreme .
The exhibition proceeded .
One after another Fancy displayed her pictures , all of which appeared to have been painted by some malicious artist on purpose to vex Mr. Smith .
Not a shadow of proof could have been adduced in any earthly court that he was guilty of the slightest of those sins which were thus made to stare him in the face .
In one scene there was a table set out , with several bottles and glasses half filled with wine , which threw back the dull ray of an expiring lamp .
There had been mirth and revelry until the hand of the clock stood just at midnight , when Murder stepped between the boon-companions .
A young man had fallen on the floor , and lay stone dead with a ghastly wound crushed into his temple , while over him , with a delirium of mingled rage and horror in his countenance , stood the youthful likeness of Mr. Smith .
The murdered youth wore the features of Edward Spencer .
`` What does this rascal of a painter mean ? ''
cries Mr. Smith , provoked beyond all patience .
`` Edward Spencer was my earliest and dearest friend , true to me as I to him through more than half a century .
Neither I nor any other ever murdered him .
Was he not alive within five years , and did he not , in token of our long friendship , bequeath me his gold-headed cane and a mourning-ring ? ''
Again had Memory been turning over her volume , and fixed at length upon so confused a page that she surely must have scribbled it when she was tipsy .
The purport was , however , that while Mr. Smith and Edward Spencer were heating their young blood with wine a quarrel had flashed up between them , and Mr. Smith , in deadly wrath , had flung a bottle at Spencer 's head .
True , it missed its aim and merely smashed a looking-glass ; and the next morning , when the incident was imperfectly remembered , they had shaken hands with a hearty laugh .
Yet , again , while Memory was reading , Conscience unveiled her face , struck a dagger to the heart of Mr. Smith and quelled his remonstrance with her iron frown .
The pain was quite excruciating .
Some of the pictures had been painted with so doubtful a touch , and in colors so faint and pale , that the subjects could barely be conjectured .
A dull , semi-transparent mist had been thrown over the surface of the canvas , into which the figures seemed to vanish while the eye sought most earnestly to fix them .
But in every scene , however dubiously portrayed , Mr. Smith was invariably haunted by his own lineaments at various ages as in a dusty mirror .
After poring several minutes over one of these blurred and almost indistinguishable pictures , he began to see that the painter had intended to represent him , now in the decline of life , as stripping the clothes from the backs of three half-starved children .
`` Really , this puzzles me ! ''
quoth Mr. Smith , with the irony of conscious rectitude .
`` Asking pardon of the painter , I pronounce him a fool as well as a scandalous knave .
A man of my standing in the world to be robbing little children of their clothes !
Ridiculous ! ''
But while he spoke Memory had searched her fatal volume and found a page which with her sad calm voice she poured into his ear .
It was not altogether inapplicable to the misty scene .
It told how Mr. Smith had been grievously tempted by many devilish sophistries , on the ground of a legal quibble , to commence a lawsuit against three orphan-children , joint-heirs to a considerable estate .
Fortunately , before he was quite decided , his claims had turned out nearly as devoid of law as justice .
As Memory ceased to read Conscience again thrust aside her mantle , and would have struck her victim with the envenomed dagger only that he struggled and clasped his hands before his heart .
Even then , however , he sustained an ugly gash .
Why should we follow Fancy through the whole series of those awful pictures ?
Painted by an artist of wondrous power and terrible acquaintance with the secret soul , they embodied the ghosts of all the never-perpetrated sins that had glided through the lifetime of Mr. Smith .
And could such beings of cloudy fantasy , so near akin to nothingness , give valid evidence against him at the day of judgment ?
Be that the case or not , there is reason to believe that one truly penitential tear would have washed away each hateful picture and left the canvas white as snow .
But Mr. Smith , at a prick of Conscience too keen to be endured , bellowed aloud with impatient agony , and suddenly discovered that his three guests were gone .
There he sat alone , a silver-haired and highly-venerated old man , in the rich gloom of the crimsoned-curtained room , with no box of pictures on the table , but only a decanter of most excellent Madeira .
Yet his heart still seemed to fester with the venom of the dagger .
Nevertheless , the unfortunate old gentleman might have argued the matter with Conscience and alleged many reasons wherefore she should not smite him so pitilessly .
Were we to take up his cause , it should be somewhat in the following fashion .
A scheme of guilt , till it be put in execution , greatly resembles a train of incidents in a projected tale .
The latter , in order to produce a sense of reality in the reader 's mind , must be conceived with such proportionate strength by the author as to seem in the glow of fancy more like truth , past , present or to come , than purely fiction .
The prospective sinner , on the other hand , weaves his plot of crime , but seldom or never feels a perfect certainty that it will be executed .
There is a dreaminess diffused about his thoughts ; in a dream , as it were , he strikes the death-blow into his victim 's heart and starts to find an indelible blood-stain on his hand .
Thus a novel-writer or a dramatist , in creating a villain of romance and fitting him with evil deeds , and the villain of actual life in projecting crimes that will be perpetrated , may almost meet each other halfway between reality and fancy .
It is not until the crime is accomplished that Guilt clenches its gripe upon the guilty heart and claims it for his own .
Then , and not before , sin is actually felt and acknowledged , and , if unaccompanied by repentance , grows a thousandfold more virulent by its self-consciousness .
Be it considered , also , that men often overestimate their capacity for evil .
At a distance , while its attendant circumstances do not press upon their notice and its results are dimly seen , they can bear to contemplate it .
They may take the steps which lead to crime , impelled by the same sort of mental action as in working out a mathematical problem , yet be powerless with compunction at the final moment .
They knew not what deed it was that they deemed themselves resolved to do .
In truth , there is no such thing in man 's nature as a settled and full resolve , either for good or evil , except at the very moment of execution .
Let us hope , therefore , that all the dreadful consequences of sin will not be incurred unless the act have set its seal upon the thought .
Yet , with the slight fancy-work which we have framed , some sad and awful truths are interwoven .
Man must not disclaim his brotherhood even with the guiltiest , since , though his hand be clean , his heart has surely been polluted by the flitting phantoms of iniquity .
He must feel that when he shall knock at the gate of heaven no semblance of an unspotted life can entitle him to entrance there .
Penitence must kneel and Mercy come from the footstool of the throne , or that golden gate will never open .
DR. HEIDEGGER 'S EXPERIMENT .
That very singular man old Dr. Heidegger once invited four venerable friends to meet him in his study .
There were three white-bearded gentlemen -- Mr. Medbourne , Colonel Killigrew and Mr. Gascoigne -- and a withered gentlewoman whose name was the widow Wycherly .
They were all melancholy old creatures who had been unfortunate in life , and whose greatest misfortune it was that they were not long ago in their graves .
Mr. Medbourne , in the vigor of his age , had been a prosperous merchant , but had lost his all by a frantic speculation , and was now little better than a mendicant .
Colonel Killigrew had wasted his best years and his health and substance in the pursuit of sinful pleasures which had given birth to a brood of pains , such as the gout and divers other torments of soul and body .
Mr. Gascoigne was a ruined politician , a man of evil fame -- or , at least , had been so till time had buried him from the knowledge of the present generation and made him obscure instead of infamous .
As for the widow Wycherly , tradition tells us that she was a great beauty in her day , but for a long while past she had lived in deep seclusion on account of certain scandalous stories which had prejudiced the gentry of the town against her .
It is a circumstance worth mentioning that each of these three old gentlemen -- Mr. Medbourne , Colonel Killigrew and Mr. Gascoigne -- were early lovers of the widow Wycherly , and had once been on the point of cutting each other 's throats for her sake .
And before proceeding farther I will merely hint that Dr. Heidegger and all his four guests were sometimes thought to be a little beside themselves , as is not infrequently the case with old people when worried either by present troubles or woeful recollections .
`` My dear old friends , '' said Dr. Heidegger , motioning them to be seated , `` I am desirous of your assistance in one of those little experiments with which I amuse myself here in my study . ''
If all stories were true , Dr. Heidegger 's study must have been a very curious place .
It was a dim , old-fashioned chamber festooned with cobwebs and besprinkled with antique dust .
Around the walls stood several oaken bookcases , the lower shelves of which were filled with rows of gigantic folios and black-letter quartos , and the upper with little parchment-covered duodecimos .
Over the central bookcase was a bronze bust of Hippocrates , with which , according to some authorities , Dr. Heidegger was accustomed to hold consultations in all difficult cases of his practice .
In the obscurest corner of the room stood a tall and narrow oaken closet with its door ajar , within which doubtfully appeared a skeleton .
Between two of the bookcases hung a looking-glass , presenting its high and dusty plate within a tarnished gilt frame .
Among many wonderful stories related of this mirror , it was fabled that the spirits of all the doctor 's deceased patients dwelt within its verge and would stare him in the face whenever he looked thitherward .
The opposite side of the chamber was ornamented with the full-length portrait of a young lady arrayed in the faded magnificence of silk , satin and brocade , and with a visage as faded as her dress .
Above half a century ago Dr. Heidegger had been on the point of marriage with this young lady , but , being affected with some slight disorder , she had swallowed one of her lover 's prescriptions and died on the bridal-evening .
The greatest curiosity of the study remains to be mentioned : it was a ponderous folio volume bound in black leather , with massive silver clasps .
There were no letters on the back , and nobody could tell the title of the book .
But it was well known to be a book of magic , and once , when a chambermaid had lifted it merely to brush away the dust , the skeleton had rattled in its closet , the picture of the young lady had stepped one foot upon the floor and several ghastly faces had peeped forth from the mirror , while the brazen head of Hippocrates frowned and said , `` Forbear ! ''
Such was Dr. Heidegger 's study .
On the summer afternoon of our tale a small round table as black as ebony stood in the centre of the room , sustaining a cut-glass vase of beautiful form and elaborate workmanship .
The sunshine came through the window between the heavy festoons of two faded damask curtains and fell directly across this vase , so that a mild splendor was reflected from it on the ashen visages of the five old people who sat around .
Four champagne-glasses were also on the table .
`` My dear old friends , '' repeated Dr. Heidegger , `` may I reckon on your aid in performing an exceedingly curious experiment ? ''
Now , Dr. Heidegger was a very strange old gentleman whose eccentricity had become the nucleus for a thousand fantastic stories .
Some of these fables -- to my shame be it spoken -- might possibly be traced back to mine own veracious self ; and if any passages of the present tale should startle the reader 's faith , I must be content to bear the stigma of a fiction-monger .
When the doctor 's four guests heard him talk of his proposed experiment , they anticipated nothing more wonderful than the murder of a mouse in an air-pump or the examination of a cobweb by the microscope , or some similar nonsense with which he was constantly in the habit of pestering his intimates .
But without waiting for a reply Dr. Heidegger hobbled across the chamber and returned with the same ponderous folio bound in black leather which common report affirmed to be a book of magic .
Undoing the silver clasps , he opened the volume and took from among its black-letter pages a rose , or what was once a rose , though now the green leaves and crimson petals had assumed one brownish hue and the ancient flower seemed ready to crumble to dust in the doctor 's hands .
`` This rose , '' said Dr. Heidegger , with a sigh -- `` this same withered and crumbling flower -- blossomed five and fifty years ago .
It was given me by Sylvia Ward , whose portrait hangs yonder , and I meant to wear it in my bosom at our wedding .
Five and fifty years it has been treasured between the leaves of this old volume .
Now , would you deem it possible that this rose of half a century could ever bloom again ? ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said the widow Wycherly , with a peevish toss of her head .
`` You might as well ask whether an old woman 's wrinkled face could ever bloom again . ''
`` See ! ''
answered Dr. Heidegger .
He uncovered the vase and threw the faded rose into the water which it contained .
At first it lay lightly on the surface of the fluid , appearing to imbibe none of its moisture .
Soon , however , a singular change began to be visible .
The crushed and dried petals stirred and assumed a deepening tinge of crimson , as if the flower were reviving from a deathlike slumber , the slender stalk and twigs of foliage became green , and there was the rose of half a century , looking as fresh as when Sylvia Ward had first given it to her lover .
It was scarcely full-blown , for some of its delicate red leaves curled modestly around its moist bosom , within which two or three dewdrops were sparkling .
`` That is certainly a very pretty deception , '' said the doctor 's friends -- carelessly , however , for they had witnessed greater miracles at a conjurer 's show .
`` Pray , how was it effected ? ''
`` Did you never hear of the Fountain of Youth ? ''
asked Dr. Heidegger , `` which Ponce de Leon , the Spanish adventurer , went in search of two or three centuries ago ? ''
`` But did Ponce de Leon ever find it ? ''
said the widow Wycherly .
`` No , '' answered Dr. Heidegger , `` for he never sought it in the right place .
The famous Fountain of Youth , if I am rightly informed , is situated in the southern part of the Floridian peninsula , not far from Lake Macaco .
Its source is overshadowed by several gigantic magnolias which , though numberless centuries old , have been kept as fresh as violets by the virtues of this wonderful water .
An acquaintance of mine , knowing my curiosity in such matters , has sent me what you see in the vase . ''
`` Ahem ! ''
said Colonel Killigrew , who believed not a word of the doctor 's story ; `` and what may be the effect of this fluid on the human frame ? ''
`` You shall judge for yourself , my dear colonel , '' replied Dr. Heidegger .
-- `` And all of you , my respected friends , are welcome to so much of this admirable fluid as may restore to you the bloom of youth .
For my own part , having had much trouble in growing old , I am in no hurry to grow young again .
With your permission , therefore , I will merely watch the progress of the experiment . ''
While he spoke Dr. Heidegger had been filling the four champagne-glasses with the water of the Fountain of Youth .
It was apparently impregnated with an effervescent gas , for little bubbles were continually ascending from the depths of the glasses and bursting in silvery spray at the surface .
As the liquor diffused a pleasant perfume , the old people doubted not that it possessed cordial and comfortable properties , and , though utter sceptics as to its rejuvenescent power , they were inclined to swallow it at once .
But Dr. Heidegger besought them to stay a moment .
`` Before you drink , my respectable old friends , '' said he , `` it would be well that , with the experience of a lifetime to direct you , you should draw up a few general rules for your guidance in passing a second time through the perils of youth .
Think what a sin and shame it would be if , with your peculiar advantages , you should not become patterns of virtue and wisdom to all the young people of the age ! ''
The doctor 's four venerable friends made him no answer except by a feeble and tremulous laugh , so very ridiculous was the idea that , knowing how closely Repentance treads behind the steps of Error , they should ever go astray again .
`` Drink , then , '' said the doctor , bowing ; `` I rejoice that I have so well selected the subjects of my experiment . ''
With palsied hands they raised the glasses to their lips .
The liquor , if it really possessed such virtues as Dr. Heidegger imputed to it , could not have been bestowed on four human beings who needed it more woefully .
They looked as if they had never known what youth or pleasure was , but had been the offspring of Nature 's dotage , and always the gray , decrepit , sapless , miserable creatures who now sat stooping round the doctor 's table without life enough in their souls or bodies to be animated even by the prospect of growing young again .
They drank off the water and replaced their glasses on the table .
Assuredly , there was an almost immediate improvement in the aspect of the party -- not unlike what might have been produced by a glass of generous wine -- together with a sudden glow of cheerful sunshine , brightening over all their visages at once .
There was a healthful suffusion on their cheeks instead of the ashen hue that had made them look so corpse-like .
They gazed at one another , and fancied that some magic power had really begun to smooth away the deep and sad inscriptions which Father Time had been so long engraving on their brows .
The widow Wycherly adjusted her cap , for she felt almost like a woman again .
`` Give us more of this wondrous water , '' cried they , eagerly .
`` We are younger , but we are still too old .
Quick !
give us more ! ''
`` Patience , patience ! ''
quoth Dr. Heidegger , who sat , watching the experiment with philosophic coolness .
`` You have been a long time growing old ; surely you might be content to grow young in half an hour .
But the water is at your service . ''
Again he filled their glasses with the liquor of youth , enough of which still remained in the vase to turn half the old people in the city to the age of their own grandchildren .
While the bubbles were yet sparkling on the brim the doctor 's four guests snatched their glasses from the table and swallowed the contents at a single gulp .
Was it delusion ?
Even while the draught was passing down their throats it seemed to have wrought a change on their whole systems .
Their eyes grew clear and bright ; a dark shade deepened among their silvery locks : they sat around the table three gentlemen of middle age and a woman hardly beyond her buxom prime .
`` My dear widow , you are charming ! ''
cried Colonel Killigrew , whose eyes had been fixed upon her face while the shadows of age were flitting from it like darkness from the crimson daybreak .
The fair widow knew of old that Colonel Killigrew 's compliments were not always measured by sober truth ; so she started up and ran to the mirror , still dreading that the ugly visage of an old woman would meet her gaze .
Meanwhile , the three gentlemen behaved in such a manner as proved that the water of the Fountain of Youth possessed some intoxicating qualities -- unless , indeed , their exhilaration of spirits were merely a lightsome dizziness caused by the sudden removal of the weight of years .
Mr. Gascoigne 's mind seemed to run on political topics , but whether relating to the past , present or future could not easily be determined , since the same ideas and phrases have been in vogue these fifty years .
Now he rattled forth full-throated sentences about patriotism , national glory and the people 's right ; now he muttered some perilous stuff or other in a sly and doubtful whisper , so cautiously that even his own conscience could scarcely catch the secret ; and now , again , he spoke in measured accents and a deeply-deferential tone , as if a royal ear were listening to his well-turned periods .
Colonel Killigrew all this time had been trolling forth a jolly bottle-song and ringing his glass in symphony with the chorus , while his eyes wandered toward the buxom figure of the widow Wycherly .
On the other side of the table , Mr. Medbourne was involved in a calculation of dollars and cents with which was strangely intermingled a project for supplying the East Indies with ice by harnessing a team of whales to the polar icebergs .
As for the widow Wycherly , she stood before the mirror courtesying and simpering to her own image and greeting it as the friend whom she loved better than all the world besides .
She thrust her face close to the glass to see whether some long-remembered wrinkle or crow 's - foot had indeed vanished ; she examined whether the snow had so entirely melted from her hair that the venerable cap could be safely thrown aside .
At last , turning briskly away , she came with a sort of dancing step to the table .
`` My dear old doctor , '' cried she , `` pray favor me with another glass . ''
`` Certainly , my dear madam -- certainly , '' replied the complaisant doctor .
`` See !
I have already filled the glasses . ''
There , in fact , stood the four glasses brimful of this wonderful water , the delicate spray of which , as it effervesced from the surface , resembled the tremulous glitter of diamonds .
It was now so nearly sunset that the chamber had grown duskier than ever , but a mild and moonlike splendor gleamed from within the vase and rested alike on the four guests and on the doctor 's venerable figure .
He sat in a high-backed , elaborately-carved oaken arm-chair with a gray dignity of aspect that might have well befitted that very Father Time whose power had never been disputed save by this fortunate company .
Even while quaffing the third draught of the Fountain of Youth , they were almost awed by the expression of his mysterious visage .
But the next moment the exhilarating gush of young life shot through their veins .
They were now in the happy prime of youth .
Age , with its miserable train of cares and sorrows and diseases , was remembered only as the trouble of a dream from which they had joyously awoke .
The fresh gloss of the soul , so early lost and without which the world 's successive scenes had been but a gallery of faded pictures , again threw its enchantment over all their prospects .
They felt like new-created beings in a new-created universe .
`` We are young !
We are young ! ''
they cried , exultingly .
Youth , like the extremity of age , had effaced the strongly-marked characteristics of middle life and mutually assimilated them all .
They were a group of merry youngsters almost maddened with the exuberant frolicsomeness of their years .
The most singular effect of their gayety was an impulse to mock the infirmity and decrepitude of which they had so lately been the victims .
They laughed loudly at their old-fashioned attire -- the wide-skirted coats and flapped waistcoats of the young men and the ancient cap and gown of the blooming girl .
One limped across the floor like a gouty grandfather ; one set a pair of spectacles astride of his nose and pretended to pore over the black-letter pages of the book of magic ; a third seated himself in an arm-chair and strove to imitate the venerable dignity of Dr. Heidegger .
Then all shouted mirthfully and leaped about the room .
The widow Wycherly -- if so fresh a damsel could be called a widow -- tripped up to the doctor 's chair with a mischievous merriment in her rosy face .
`` Doctor , you dear old soul , '' cried she , `` get up and dance with me ; '' and then the four young people laughed louder than ever to think what a queer figure the poor old doctor would cut .
`` Pray excuse me , '' answered the doctor , quietly .
`` I am old and rheumatic , and my dancing-days were over long ago .
But either of these gay young gentlemen will be glad of so pretty a partner . ''
`` Dance with me , Clara , '' cried Colonel Killigrew .
`` No , no !
I will be her partner , '' shouted Mr. Gascoigne .
`` She promised me her hand fifty years ago , '' exclaimed Mr. Medbourne .
They all gathered round her .
One caught both her hands in his passionate grasp , another threw his arm about her waist , the third buried his hand among the glossy curls that clustered beneath the widow 's cap .
Blushing , panting , struggling , chiding , laughing , her warm breath fanning each of their faces by turns , she strove to disengage herself , yet still remained in their triple embrace .
Never was there a livelier picture of youthful rivalship , with bewitching beauty for the prize .
Yet , by a strange deception , owing to the duskiness of the chamber and the antique dresses which they still wore , the tall mirror is said to have reflected the figures of the three old , gray , withered grand-sires ridiculously contending for the skinny ugliness of a shrivelled grandam .
But they were young : their burning passions proved them so .
Inflamed to madness by the coquetry of the girl-widow , who neither granted nor quite withheld her favors , the three rivals began to interchange threatening glances .
Still keeping hold of the fair prize , they grappled fiercely at one another 's throats .
As they struggled to and fro the table was overturned and the vase dashed into a thousand fragments .
The precious Water of Youth flowed in a bright stream across the floor , moistening the wings of a butterfly which , grown old in the decline of summer , had alighted there to die .
The insect fluttered lightly through the chamber and settled on the snowy head of Dr. Heidegger .
`` Come , come , gentlemen !
Come , Madam Wycherly ! ''
exclaimed the doctor .
`` I really must protest against this riot . ''
They stood still and shivered , for it seemed as if gray Time were calling them back from their sunny youth far down into the chill and darksome vale of years .
They looked at old Dr. Heidegger , who sat in his carved armchair holding the rose of half a century , which he had rescued from among the fragments of the shattered vase .
At the motion of his hand the four rioters resumed their seats -- the more readily because their violent exertions had wearied them , youthful though they were .
`` My poor Sylvia 's rose ! ''
ejaculated Dr. Heidegger , holding it in the light of the sunset clouds .
`` It appears to be fading again . ''
And so it was .
Even while the party were looking at it the flower continued to shrivel up , till it became as dry and fragile as when the doctor had first thrown it into the vase .
He shook off the few drops of moisture which clung to its petals .
`` I love it as well thus as in its dewy freshness , '' observed he , pressing the withered rose to his withered lips .
While he spoke the butterfly fluttered down from the doctor 's snowy head and fell upon the floor .
His guests shivered again .
A strange dullness -- whether of the body or spirit they could not tell -- was creeping gradually over them all .
They gazed at one another , and fancied that each fleeting moment snatched away a charm and left a deepening furrow where none had been before .
Was it an illusion ?
Had the changes of a lifetime been crowded into so brief a space , and were they now four aged people sitting with their old friend Dr. Heidegger ?
`` Are we grown old again so soon ? ''
cried they , dolefully .
In truth , they had .
The Water of Youth possessed merely a virtue more transient than that of wine ; the delirium which it created had effervesced away .
Yes , they were old again .
With a shuddering impulse that showed her a woman still , the widow clasped her skinny hands before her face and wished that the coffin-lid were over it , since it could be no longer beautiful .
`` Yes , friends , ye are old again , '' said Dr. Heidegger , `` and , lo !
the Water of Youth is all lavished on the ground .
Well , I bemoan it not ; for if the fountain gushed at my very doorstep , I would not stoop to bathe my lips in it -- no , though its delirium were for years instead of moments .
Such is the lesson ye have taught me . ''
But the doctor 's four friends had taught no such lesson to themselves .
They resolved forthwith to make a pilgrimage to Florida and quaff at morning , noon and night from the Fountain of Youth .
LEGENDS OF THE PROVINCE-HOUSE .
I. -- HOWE 'S MASQUERADE .
II .
-- EDWARD RANDOLPH 'S PORTRAIT .
III .
-- LADY ELEANORE 'S MANTLE .
IV .
-- OLD ESTHER DUDLEY .
I. HOWE 'S MASQUERADE .
One afternoon last summer , while walking along Washington street , my eye was attracted by a sign-board protruding over a narrow archway nearly opposite the Old South Church .
The sign represented the front of a stately edifice which was designated as the `` OLD PROVINCE HOUSE , kept by Thomas Waite . ''
I was glad to be thus reminded of a purpose , long entertained , of visiting and rambling over the mansion of the old royal governors of Massachusetts , and , entering the arched passage which penetrated through the middle of a brick row of shops , a few steps transported me from the busy heart of modern Boston into a small and secluded court-yard .
One side of this space was occupied by the square front of the Province House , three stories high and surmounted by a cupola , on the top of which a gilded Indian was discernible , with his bow bent and his arrow on the string , as if aiming at the weathercock on the spire of the Old South .
The figure has kept this attitude for seventy years or more , ever since good Deacon Drowne , a cunning carver of wood , first stationed him on his long sentinel 's watch over the city .
The Province House is constructed of brick , which seems recently to have been overlaid with a coat of light-colored paint .
A flight of red freestone steps fenced in by a balustrade of curiously wrought iron ascends from the court-yard to the spacious porch , over which is a balcony with an iron balustrade of similar pattern and workmanship to that beneath .
These letters and figures -- `` 16 P.S. 79 '' -- are wrought into the ironwork of the balcony , and probably express the date of the edifice , with the initials of its founder 's name .
A wide door with double leaves admitted me into the hall or entry , on the right of which is the entrance to the bar-room .
It was in this apartment , I presume , that the ancient governors held their levees with vice-regal pomp , surrounded by the military men , the counsellors , the judges , and other officers of the Crown , while all the loyalty of the province thronged to do them honor .
But the room in its present condition can not boast even of faded magnificence .
The panelled wainscot is covered with dingy paint and acquires a duskier hue from the deep shadow into which the Province House is thrown by the brick block that shuts it in from Washington street .
A ray of sunshine never visits this apartment any more than the glare of the festal torches which have been extinguished from the era of the Revolution .
The most venerable and ornamental object is a chimney-piece set round with Dutch tiles of blue-figured china , representing scenes from Scripture , and , for aught I know , the lady of Pownall or Bernard may have sat beside this fireplace and told her children the story of each blue tile .
A bar in modern style , well replenished with decanters , bottles , cigar-boxes and network bags of lemons , and provided with a beer-pump and a soda-fount , extends along one side of the room .
At my entrance an elderly person was smacking his lips with a zest which satisfied me that the cellars of the Province House still hold good liquor , though doubtless of other vintages than were quaffed by the old governors .
After sipping a glass of port-sangaree prepared by the skilful hands of Mr. Thomas Waite , I besought that worthy successor and representative of so many historic personages to conduct me over their time-honored mansion .
He readily complied , but , to confess the truth , I was forced to draw strenuously upon my imagination in order to find aught that was interesting in a house which , without its historic associations , would have seemed merely such a tavern as is usually favored by the custom of decent city boarders and old-fashioned country gentlemen .
The chambers , which were probably spacious in former times , are now cut up by partitions and subdivided into little nooks , each affording scanty room for the narrow bed and chair and dressing-table of a single lodger : The great staircase , however , may be termed , without much hyperbole , a feature of grandeur and magnificence .
It winds through the midst of the house by flights of broad steps , each flight terminating in a square landing-place , whence the ascent is continued toward the cupola .
A carved balustrade , freshly painted in the lower stories , but growing dingier as we ascend , borders the staircase with its quaintly twisted and intertwined pillars , from top to bottom .
Up these stairs the military boots , or perchance the gouty shoes , of many a governor have trodden as the wearers mounted to the cupola which afforded them so wide a view over their metropolis and the surrounding country .
The cupola is an octagon with several windows , and a door opening upon the roof .
From this station , as I pleased myself with imagining , Gage may have beheld his disastrous victory on Bunker Hill -LRB- unless one of the tri-mountains intervened -RRB- , and Howe have marked the approaches of Washington 's besieging army , although the buildings since erected in the vicinity have shut out almost every object save the steeple of the Old South , which seems almost within arm 's length .
Descending from the cupola , I paused in the garret to observe the ponderous white-oak framework , so much more massive than the frames of modern houses , and thereby resembling an antique skeleton .
The brick walls , the materials of which were imported from Holland , and the timbers of the mansion , are still as sound as ever , but , the floors and other interior parts being greatly decayed , it is contemplated to gut the whole and build a new house within the ancient frame-and brickwork .
Among other inconveniences of the present edifice , mine host mentioned that any jar or motion was apt to shake down the dust of ages out of the ceiling of one chamber upon the floor of that beneath it .
We stepped forth from the great front window into the balcony where in old times it was doubtless the custom of the king 's representative to show himself to a loyal populace , requiting their huzzas and tossed-up hats with stately bendings of his dignified person .
In those days the front of the Province House looked upon the street , and the whole site now occupied by the brick range of stores , as well as the present court-yard , was laid out in grass-plats overshadowed by trees and bordered by a wrought-iron fence .
Now the old aristocratic edifice hides its time-worn visage behind an upstart modern building ; at one of the back windows I observed some pretty tailoresses sewing and chatting and laughing , with now and then a careless glance toward the balcony .
Descending thence , we again entered the bar-room , where the elderly gentleman above mentioned -- the smack of whose lips had spoken so favorably for Mr. Waite 's good liquor -- was still lounging in his chair .
He seemed to be , if not a lodger , at least a familiar visitor of the house who might be supposed to have his regular score at the bar , his summer seat at the open window and his prescriptive corner at the winter 's fireside .
Being of a sociable aspect , I ventured to address him with a remark calculated to draw forth his historical reminiscences , if any such were in his mind , and it gratified me to discover that , between memory and tradition , the old gentleman was really possessed of some very pleasant gossip about the Province House .
The portion of his talk which chiefly interested me was the outline of the following legend .
He professed to have received it at one or two removes from an eye-witness , but this derivation , together with the lapse of time , must have afforded opportunities for many variations of the narrative ; so that , despairing of literal and absolute truth , I have not scrupled to make such further changes as seemed conducive to the reader 's profit and delight .
* * * * * At one of the entertainments given at the province-house during the latter part of the siege of Boston there passed a scene which has never yet been satisfactorily explained .
The officers of the British army and the loyal gentry of the province , most of whom were collected within the beleaguered town , had been invited to a masqued ball , for it was the policy for Sir William Howe to hide the distress and danger of the period and the desperate aspect of the siege under an ostentation of festivity .
The spectacle of this evening , if the oldest members of the provincial court circle might be believed , was the most gay and gorgeous affair that had occurred in the annals of the government .
The brilliantly-lighted apartments were thronged with figures that seemed to have stepped from the dark canvas of historic portraits or to have flitted forth from the magic pages of romance , or at least to have flown hither from one of the London theatres without a change of garments .
Steeled knights of the Conquest , bearded statesmen of Queen Elizabeth and high-ruffed ladies of her court were mingled with characters of comedy , such as a parti-colored Merry Andrew jingling his cap and bells , a Falstaff almost as provocative of laughter as his prototype , and a Don Quixote with a bean-pole for a lance and a pot-lid for a shield .
But the broadest merriment was excited by a group of figures ridiculously dressed in old regimentals which seemed to have been purchased at a military rag-fair or pilfered from some receptacle of the cast-off clothes of both the French and British armies .
Portions of their attire had probably been worn at the siege of Louisburg , and the coats of most recent cut might have been rent and tattered by sword , ball or bayonet as long ago as Wolfe 's victory .
One of these worthies -- a tall , lank figure brandishing a rusty sword of immense longitude -- purported to be no less a personage than General George Washington , and the other principal officers of the American army , such as Gates , Lee , Putnam , Schuyler , Ward and Heath , were represented by similar scarecrows .
An interview in the mock-heroic style between the rebel warriors and the British commander-in-chief was received with immense applause , which came loudest of all from the loyalists of the colony .
There was one of the guests , however , who stood apart , eying these antics sternly and scornfully at once with a frown and a bitter smile .
It was an old man formerly of high station and great repute in the province , and who had been a very famous soldier in his day .
Some surprise had been expressed that a person of Colonel Joliffe 's known Whig principles , though now too old to take an active part in the contest , should have remained in Boston during the siege , and especially that he should consent to show himself in the mansion of Sir William Howe .
But thither he had come with a fair granddaughter under his arm , and there , amid all the mirth and buffoonery , stood this stern old figure , the best-sustained character in the masquerade , because so well representing the antique spirit of his native land .
The other guests affirmed that Colonel Joliffe 's black puritanical scowl threw a shadow round about him , although , in spite of his sombre influence , their gayety continued to blaze higher , like -- an ominous comparison -- the flickering brilliancy of a lamp which has but a little while to burn .
Eleven strokes full half an hour ago had pealed from the clock of the Old South , when a rumor was circulated among the company that some new spectacle or pageant was about to be exhibited which should put a fitting close to the splendid festivities of the night .
`` What new jest has Your Excellency in hand ? ''
asked the Reverend Mather Byles , whose Presbyterian scruples had not kept him from the entertainment .
`` Trust me , sir , I have already laughed more than beseems my cloth at your Homeric confabulation with yonder ragamuffin general of the rebels .
One other such fit of merriment , and I must throw off my clerical wig and band . ''
`` Not so , good Dr. Byles , '' answered Sir William Howe ; `` if mirth were a crime , you had never gained your doctorate in divinity .
As to this new foolery , I know no more about it than yourself -- perhaps not so much .
Honestly , now , doctor , have you not stirred up the sober brains of some of your countrymen to enact a scene in our masquerade ? ''
`` Perhaps , '' slyly remarked the granddaughter of Colonel Joliffe , whose high spirit had been stung by many taunts against New England -- `` perhaps we are to have a masque of allegorical figures -- Victory with trophies from Lexington and Bunker Hill , Plenty with her overflowing horn to typify the present abundance in this good town , and Glory with a wreath for His Excellency 's brow . ''
Sir William Howe smiled at words which he would have answered with one of his darkest frowns had they been uttered by lips that wore a beard .
He was spared the necessity of a retort by a singular interruption .
A sound of music was heard without the house , as if proceeding from a full band of military instruments stationed in the street , playing , not such a festal strain as was suited to the occasion , but a slow funeral-march .
The drums appeared to be muffled , and the trumpets poured forth a wailing breath which at once hushed the merriment of the auditors , filling all with wonder and some with apprehension .
The idea occurred to many that either the funeral procession of some great personage had halted in front of the province-house , or that a corpse in a velvet-covered and gorgeously-decorated coffin was about to be borne from the portal .
After listening a moment , Sir William Howe called in a stern voice to the leader of the musicians , who had hitherto enlivened the entertainment with gay and lightsome melodies .
The man was drum-major to one of the British regiments .
`` Dighton , '' demanded the general , `` what means this foolery ?
Bid your band silence that dead march , or , by my word , they shall have sufficient cause for their lugubrious strains .
Silence it , sirrah ! ''
`` Please , Your Honor , '' answered the drum-major , whose rubicund visage had lost all its color , `` the fault is none of mine .
I and my band are all here together , and I question whether there be a man of us that could play that march without book .
I never heard it but once before , and that was at the funeral of his late Majesty , King George II . ''
`` Well , well ! ''
said Sir William Howe , recovering his composure ; `` it is the prelude to some masquerading antic .
Let it pass . ''
A figure now presented itself , but among the many fantastic masks that were dispersed through the apartments none could tell precisely from whence it came .
It was a man in an old-fashioned dress of black serge and having the aspect of a steward or principal domestic in the household of a nobleman or great English landholder .
This figure advanced to the outer door of the mansion , and , throwing both its leaves wide open , withdrew a little to one side and looked back toward the grand staircase , as if expecting some person to descend .
At the same time , the music in the street sounded a loud and doleful summons .
The eyes of Sir William Howe and his guests being directed to the staircase , there appeared on the uppermost landing-place , that was discernible from the bottom , several personages descending toward the door .
The foremost was a man of stern visage , wearing a steeple-crowned hat and a skull-cap beneath it , a dark cloak and huge wrinkled boots that came halfway up his legs .
Under his arm was a rolled-up banner which seemed to be the banner of England , but strangely rent and torn ; he had a sword in his right hand and grasped a Bible in his left .
The next figure was of milder aspect , yet full of dignity , wearing a broad ruff , over which descended a beard , a gown of wrought velvet and a doublet and hose of black satin ; he carried a roll of manuscript in his hand .
Close behind these two came a young man of very striking countenance and demeanor with deep thought and contemplation on his brow , and perhaps a flash of enthusiasm in his eye ; his garb , like that of his predecessors , was of an antique fashion , and there was a stain of blood upon his ruff .
In the same group with these were three or four others , all men of dignity and evident command , and bearing themselves like personages who were accustomed to the gaze of the multitude .
It was the idea of the beholders that these figures went to join the mysterious funeral that had halted in front of the province-house , yet that supposition seemed to be contradicted by the air of triumph with which they waved their hands as they crossed the threshold and vanished through the portal .
`` In the devil 's name , what is this ? ''
muttered Sir William Howe to a gentleman beside him .
`` A procession of the regicide judges of King Charles the martyr ? ''
`` These , '' said Colonel Joliffe , breaking silence almost for the first time that evening -- `` these , if I interpret them aright , are the Puritan governors , the rulers of the old original democracy of Massachusetts -- Endicott with the banner from which he had torn the symbol of subjection , and Winthrop and Sir Henry Vane and Dudley , Haynes , Bellingham and Leverett . ''
`` Why had that young man a stain of blood upon his ruff ? ''
asked Miss Joliffe .
`` Because in after-years , '' answered her grandfather , `` he laid down the wisest head in England upon the block for the principles of liberty . ''
`` Will not Your Excellency order out the guard ? ''
whispered Lord Percy , who , with other British officers , had now assembled round the general .
`` There may be a plot under this mummery . ''
`` Tush !
we have nothing to fear , '' carelessly replied Sir William Howe .
`` There can be no worse treason in the matter than a jest , and that somewhat of the dullest .
Even were it a sharp and bitter one , our best policy would be to laugh it off .
See !
here come more of these gentry . ''
Another group of characters had now partly descended the staircase .
The first was a venerable and white-bearded patriarch who cautiously felt his way downward with a staff .
Treading hastily behind him , and stretching forth his gauntleted hand as if to grasp the old man 's shoulder , came a tall soldier-like figure equipped with a plumed cap of steel , a bright breastplate and a long sword , which rattled against the stairs .
Next was seen a stout man dressed in rich and courtly attire , but not of courtly demeanor ; his gait had the swinging motion of a seaman 's walk , and , chancing to stumble on the staircase , he suddenly grew wrathful and was heard to mutter an oath .
He was followed by a noble-looking personage in a curled wig such as are represented in the portraits of Queen Anne 's time and earlier , and the breast of his coat was decorated with an embroidered star .
While advancing to the door he bowed to the right hand and to the left in a very gracious and insinuating style , but as he crossed the threshold , unlike the early Puritan governors , he seemed to wring his hands with sorrow .
`` Prithee , play the part of a chorus , good Dr. Byles , '' said Sir William Howe .
`` What worthies are these ? ''
`` If it please Your Excellency , they lived somewhat before my day , '' answered the doctor ; `` but doubtless our friend the colonel has been hand and glove with them . ''
`` Their living faces I never looked upon , '' said Colonel Joliffe , gravely ; `` although I have spoken face to face with many rulers of this land , and shall greet yet another with an old man 's blessing ere I die .
But we talk of these figures .
I take the venerable patriarch to be Bradstreet , the last of the Puritans , who was governor at ninety or thereabouts .
The next is Sir Edmund Andros , a tyrant , as any New England schoolboy will tell you , and therefore the people cast him down from his high seat into a dungeon .
Then comes Sir William Phipps , shepherd , cooper , sea-captain and governor .
May many of his countrymen rise as high from as low an origin !
Lastly , you saw the gracious earl of Bellamont , who ruled us under King William . ''
`` But what is the meaning of it all ? ''
asked Lord Percy .
`` Now , were I a rebel , '' said Miss Joliffe , half aloud , `` I might fancy that the ghosts of these ancient governors had been summoned to form the funeral procession of royal authority in New England . ''
Several other figures were now seen at the turn of the staircase .
The one in advance had a thoughtful , anxious and somewhat crafty expression of face , and in spite of his loftiness of manner , which was evidently the result both of an ambitious spirit and of long continuance in high stations , he seemed not incapable of cringing to a greater than himself .
A few steps behind came an officer in a scarlet and embroidered uniform cut in a fashion old enough to have been worn by the duke of Marlborough .
His nose had a rubicund tinge , which , together with the twinkle of his eye , might have marked him as a lover of the wine-cup and good-fellowship ; notwithstanding which tokens , he appeared ill at ease , and often glanced around him as if apprehensive of some secret mischief .
Next came a portly gentleman wearing a coat of shaggy cloth lined with silken velvet ; he had sense , shrewdness and humor in his face and a folio volume under his arm , but his aspect was that of a man vexed and tormented beyond all patience and harassed almost to death .
He went hastily down , and was followed by a dignified person dressed in a purple velvet suit with very rich embroidery ; his demeanor would have possessed much stateliness , only that a grievous fit of the gout compelled him to hobble from stair to stair with contortions of face and body .
When Dr. Byles beheld this figure on the staircase , he shivered as with an ague , but continued to watch him steadfastly until the gouty gentleman had reached the threshold , made a gesture of anguish and despair and vanished into the outer gloom , whither the funeral music summoned him .
`` Governor Belcher -- my old patron -- in his very shape and dress ! ''
gasped Dr. Byles .
`` This is an awful mockery . ''
`` A tedious foolery , rather , '' said Sir William Howe , with an air of indifference .
`` But who were the three that preceded him ? ''
`` Governor Dudley , a cunning politician ; yet his craft once brought him to a prison , '' replied Colonel Joliffe .
`` Governor Shute , formerly a colonel under Marlborough , and whom the people frightened out of the province , and learned Governor Burnett , whom the legislature tormented into a mortal fever . ''
`` Methinks they were miserable men -- these royal governors of Massachusetts , '' observed Miss Joliffe .
`` Heavens !
how dim the light grows ! ''
It was certainly a fact that the large lamp which illuminated the staircase now burned dim and duskily ; so that several figures which passed hastily down the stairs and went forth from the porch appeared rather like shadows than persons of fleshly substance .
Sir William Howe and his guests stood at the doors of the contiguous apartments watching the progress of this singular pageant with various emotions of anger , contempt or half-acknowledged fear , but still with an anxious curiosity .
The shapes which now seemed hastening to join the mysterious procession were recognized rather by striking peculiarities of dress or broad characteristics of manner than by any perceptible resemblance of features to their prototypes .
Their faces , indeed , were invariably kept in deep shadow , but Dr. Byles and other gentlemen who had long been familiar with the successive rulers of the province were heard to whisper the names of Shirley , of Pownall , of Sir Francis Bernard and of the well-remembered Hutchinson , thereby confessing that the actors , whoever they might be , in this spectral march of governors had succeeded in putting on some distant portraiture of the real personages .
As they vanished from the door , still did these shadows toss their arms into the gloom of night with a dread expression of woe .
Following the mimic representative of Hutchinson came a military figure holding before his face the cocked hat which he had taken from his powdered head , but his epaulettes and other insignia of rank were those of a general officer , and something in his mien reminded the beholders of one who had recently been master of the province-house and chief of all the land .
`` The shape of Gage , as true as in a looking-glass ! ''
exclaimed Lord Percy , turning pale .
`` No , surely , '' cried Miss Joliffe , laughing hysterically ; `` it could not be Gage , or Sir William would have greeted his old comrade in arms .
Perhaps he will not suffer the next to pass unchallenged . ''
`` Of that be assured , young lady , '' answered Sir William Howe , fixing his eyes with a very marked expression upon the immovable visage of her grandfather .
`` I have long enough delayed to pay the ceremonies of a host to these departing guests ; the next that takes his leave shall receive due courtesy . ''
A wild and dreary burst of music came through the open door .
It seemed as it the procession , which had been gradually filling up its ranks , were now about to move , and that this loud peal of the wailing trumpets and roll of the muffled drums were a call to some loiterer to make haste .
Many eyes , by an irresistible impulse , were turned upon Sir William Howe , as if it were he whom the dreary music summoned to the funeral of departed power .
`` See !
here comes the last , '' whispered Miss Joliffe , pointing her tremulous finger to the staircase .
A figure had come into view as if descending the stairs , although so dusky was the region whence it emerged some of the spectators fancied that they had seen this human shape suddenly moulding itself amid the gloom .
Downward the figure came with a stately and martial tread , and , reaching the lowest stair , was observed to be a tall man booted and wrapped in a military cloak , which was drawn up around the face so as to meet the napped brim of a laced hat ; the features , therefore , were completely hidden .
But the British officers deemed that they had seen that military cloak before , and even recognized the frayed embroidery on the collar , as well as the gilded scabbard of a sword which protruded from the folds of the cloak and glittered in a vivid gleam of light .
Apart from these trifling particulars there were characteristics of gait and bearing which impelled the wondering guests to glance from the shrouded figure to Sir William Howe , as if to satisfy themselves that their host had not suddenly vanished from the midst of them .
With a dark flush of wrath upon his brow , they saw the general draw his sword and advance to meet the figure in the cloak before the latter had stepped one pace upon the floor .
`` Villain , unmuffle yourself ! ''
cried he .
`` You pass no farther . ''
The figure , without blenching a hair 's - breadth from the sword which was pointed at his breast , made a solemn pause and lowered the cape of the cloak from about his face , yet not sufficiently for the spectators to catch a glimpse of it .
But Sir William Howe had evidently seen enough .
The sternness of his countenance gave place to a look of wild amazement , if not horror , while he recoiled several steps from the figure and let fall his sword upon the floor .
The martial shape again drew the cloak about his features and passed on , but , reaching the threshold with his back toward the spectators , he was seen to stamp his foot and shake his clenched hands in the air .
It was afterward affirmed that Sir William Howe had repeated that selfsame gesture of rage and sorrow when for the last time , and as the last royal governor , he passed through the portal of the province-house .
`` Hark !
The procession moves , '' said Miss Joliffe .
The music was dying away along the street , and its dismal strains were mingled with the knell of midnight from the steeple of the Old South and with the roar of artillery which announced that the beleaguered army of Washington had intrenched itself upon a nearer height than before .
As the deep boom of the cannon smote upon his ear Colonel Joliffe raised himself to the full height of his aged form and smiled sternly on the British general .
`` Would Your Excellency inquire further into the mystery of the pageant ? ''
said he .
`` Take care of your gray head ! ''
cried Sir William Howe , fiercely , though with a quivering lip .
`` It has stood too long on a traitor 's shoulders . ''
`` You must make haste to chop it off , then , '' calmly replied the colonel , `` for a few hours longer , and not all the power of Sir William Howe , nor of his master , shall cause one of these gray hairs to fall .
The empire of Britain in this ancient province is at its last gasp to-night ; almost while I speak it is a dead corpse , and methinks the shadows of the old governors are fit mourners at its funeral . ''
With these words Colonel Joliffe threw on his cloak , and , drawing his granddaughter 's arm within his own , retired from the last festival that a British ruler ever held in the old province of Massachusetts Bay .
It was supposed that the colonel and the young lady possessed some secret intelligence in regard to the mysterious pageant of that night .
However this might be , such knowledge has never become general .
The actors in the scene have vanished into deeper obscurity than even that wild Indian hand who scattered the cargoes of the tea-ships on the waves and gained a place in history , yet left no names .
But superstition , among other legends of this mansion , repeats the wondrous tale that on the anniversary night of Britain 's discomfiture the ghosts of the ancient governors of Massachusetts still glide through the portal of the Province House .
And last of all comes a figure shrouded in a military cloak , tossing his clenched hands into the air and stamping his iron-shod boots upon the broad freestone steps with a semblance of feverish despair , but without the sound of a foot-tramp .
* * * * * When the truth-telling accents of the elderly gentleman were hushed , I drew a long breath and looked round the room , striving with the best energy of my imagination to throw a tinge of romance and historic grandeur over the realities of the scene .
But my nostrils snuffed up a scent of cigar-smoke , clouds of which the narrator had emitted by way of visible emblem , I suppose , of the nebulous obscurity of his tale .
Moreover , my gorgeous fantasies were woefully disturbed by the rattling of the spoon in a tumbler of whiskey-punch which Mr. Thomas Waite was mingling for a customer .
Nor did it add to the picturesque appearance of the panelled walls that the slate of the Brookline stage was suspended against them , instead of the armorial escutcheon of some far-descended governor .
A stage-driver sat at one of the windows reading a penny paper of the day -- the Boston Times -- and presenting a figure which could nowise be brought into any picture of `` Times in Boston '' seventy or a hundred years ago .
On the window-seat lay a bundle neatly done up in brown paper , the direction of which I had the idle curiosity to read : `` MISS SUSAN HUGGINS , at the PROVINCE HOUSE . ''
A pretty chambermaid , no doubt .
In truth , it is desperately hard work when we attempt to throw the spell of hoar antiquity over localities with which the living world and the day that is passing over us have aught to do .
Yet , as I glanced at the stately staircase down which the procession of the old governors had descended , and as I emerged through the venerable portal whence their figures had preceded me , it gladdened me to be conscious of a thrill of awe .
Then , diving through the narrow archway , a few strides transported me into the densest throng of Washington street .
II .
EDWARD RANDOLPH 'S PORTRAIT .
The old legendary guest of the Province House abode in my remembrance from midsummer till January .
One idle evening last winter , confident that he would be found in the snuggest corner of the bar-room , I resolved to pay him another visit , hoping to deserve well of my country by snatching from oblivion some else unheard-of fact of history .
The night was chill and raw , and rendered boisterous by almost a gale of wind which whistled along Washington street , causing the gaslights to flare and flicker within the lamps .
As I hurried onward my fancy was busy with a comparison between the present aspect of the street and that which it probably wore when the British governors inhabited the mansion whither I was now going .
Brick edifices in those times were few till a succession of destructive fires had swept , and swept again , the wooden dwellings and warehouses from the most populous quarters of the town .
The buildings stood insulated and independent , not , as now , merging their separate existences into connected ranges with a front of tiresome identity , but each possessing features of its own , as if the owner 's individual taste had shaped it , and the whole presenting a picturesque irregularity the absence of which is hardly compensated by any beauties of our modern architecture .
Such a scene , dimly vanishing from the eye by the ray of here and there a tallow candle glimmering through the small panes of scattered windows , would form a sombre contrast to the street as I beheld it with the gaslights blazing from corner to corner , flaming within the shops and throwing a noonday brightness through the huge plates of glass .
But the black , lowering sky , as I turned my eyes upward , wore , doubtless , the same visage as when it frowned upon the ante-Revolutionary New Englanders .
The wintry blast had the same shriek that was familiar to their ears .
The Old South Church , too , still pointed its antique spire into the darkness and was lost between earth and heaven , and , as I passed , its clock , which had warned so many generations how transitory was their lifetime , spoke heavily and slow the same unregarded moral to myself .
`` Only seven o'clock ! ''
thought I. `` My old friend 's legends will scarcely kill the hours ` twixt this and bedtime . ''
Passing through the narrow arch , I crossed the courtyard , the confined precincts of which were made visible by a lantern over the portal of the Province House .
On entering the bar-room , I found , as I expected , the old tradition-monger seated by a special good fire of anthracite , compelling clouds of smoke from a corpulent cigar .
He recognized me with evident pleasure , for my rare properties as a patient listener invariably make me a favorite with elderly gentlemen and ladies of narrative propensites .
Drawing a chair to the fire , I desired mine host to favor us with a glass apiece of whiskey-punch , which was speedily prepared , steaming hot , with a slice of lemon at the bottom , a dark-red stratum of port wine upon the surface and a sprinkling of nutmeg strewn over all .
As we touched our glasses together , my legendary friend made himself known to me as Mr. Bela Tiffany , and I rejoiced at the oddity of the name , because it gave his image and character a sort of individuality in my conception .
The old gentleman 's draught acted as a solvent upon his memory , so that it overflowed with tales , traditions , anecdotes of famous dead people and traits of ancient manners , some of which were childish as a nurse 's lullaby , while others might have been worth the notice of the grave historian .
Nothing impressed me more than a story of a black mysterious picture which used to hang in one of the chambers of the Province House , directly above the room where we were now sitting .
The following is as correct a version of the fact as the reader would be likely to obtain from any other source , although , assuredly , it has a tinge of romance approaching to the marvellous .
* * * * * In one of the apartments of the province-house there was long preserved an ancient picture the frame of which was as black as ebony , and the canvas itself so dark with age , damp and smoke that not a touch of the painter 's art could be discerned .
Time had thrown an impenetrable veil over it and left to tradition and fable and conjecture to say what had once been there portrayed .
During the rule of many successive governors it had hung , by prescriptive and undisputed right , over the mantel piece of the same chamber , and it still kept its place when Lieutenant-governor Hutchinson assumed the administration of the province on the departure of Sir Francis Bernard .
The lieutenant-governor sat one afternoon resting his head against the carved back of his stately arm-chair and gazing up thoughtfully at the void blackness of the picture .
It was scarcely a time for such inactive musing , when affairs of the deepest moment required the ruler 's decision ; for within that very hour Hutchinson had received intelligence of the arrival of a British fleet bringing three regiments from Halifax to overawe the insubordination of the people .
These troops awaited his permission to occupy the fortress of Castle William and the town itself , yet , instead of affixing his signature to an official order , there sat the lieutenant-governor so carefully scrutinizing the black waste of canvas that his demeanor attracted the notice of two young persons who attended him .
One , wearing a military dress of buff , was his kinsman , Francis Lincoln , the provincial captain of Castle William ; the other , who sat on a low stool beside his chair , was Alice Vane , his favorite niece .
She was clad entirely in white -- a pale , ethereal creature who , though a native of New England , had been educated abroad and seemed not merely a stranger from another clime , but almost a being from another world .
For several years , until left an orphan , she had dwelt with her father in sunny Italy , and there had acquired a taste and enthusiasm for sculpture and painting which she found few opportunities of gratifying in the undecorated dwellings of the colonial gentry .
It was said that the early productions of her own pencil exhibited no inferior genius , though perhaps the rude atmosphere of New England had cramped her hand and dimmed the glowing colors of her fancy .
But , observing her uncle 's steadfast gaze , which appeared to search through the mist of years to discover the subject of the picture , her curiosity was excited .
`` Is it known , my dear uncle , '' inquired she , `` what this old picture once represented ?
Possibly , could it be made visible , it might prove a masterpiece of some great artist ; else why has it so long held such a conspicuous place ? ''
As her uncle , contrary to his usual custom -- for he was as attentive to all the humors and caprices of Alice as if she had been his own best-beloved child -- did not immediately reply , the young captain of Castle William took that office upon himself .
`` This dark old square of canvas , my fair cousin , '' said he , `` has been an heirloom in the province-house from time immemorial .
As to the painter , I can tell you nothing ; but if half the stories told of it be true , not one of the great Italian masters has ever produced so marvellous a piece of work as that before you . ''
Captain Lincoln proceeded to relate some of the strange fables and fantasies which , as it was impossible to refute them by ocular demonstration , had grown to be articles of popular belief in reference to this old picture .
One of the wildest , and at the same time the best-accredited , accounts stated it to be an original and authentic portrait of the evil one , taken at a witch-meeting near Salem , and that its strong and terrible resemblance had been confirmed by several of the confessing wizards and witches at their trial in open court .
It was likewise affirmed that a familiar spirit or demon abode behind the blackness of the picture , and had shown himself at seasons of public calamity to more than one of the royal governors .
Shirley , for instance , had beheld this ominous apparition on the eve of General Abercrombie 's shameful and bloody defeat under the walls of Ticonderoga .
Many of the servants of the province-house had caught glimpses of a visage frowning down upon them at morning or evening twilight , or in the depths of night while raking up the fire that glimmered on the hearth beneath , although , if any were , bold enough to hold a torch before the picture , it would appear as black and undistinguishable as ever .
The oldest inhabitant of Boston recollected that his father -- in whose days the portrait had not wholly faded out of sight -- had once looked upon it , but would never suffer himself to be questioned as to the face which was there represented .
In connection with such stories , it was remarkable that over the top of the frame there were some ragged remnants of black silk , indicating that a veil had formerly hung down before the picture until the duskiness of time had so effectually concealed it .
But , after all , it was the most singular part of the affair that so many of the pompous governors of Massachusetts had allowed the obliterated picture to remain in the state-chamber of the province-house .
`` Some of these fables are really awful , '' observed Alice Vane , who had occasionally shuddered as well as smiled while her cousin spoke .
`` It would be almost worth while to wipe away the black surface of the canvas , since the original picture can hardly be so formidable as those which fancy paints instead of it . ''
`` But would it be possible , '' inquired her cousin , '' to restore this dark picture to its pristine hues ? ''
`` Such arts are known in Italy , '' said Alice .
The lieutenant-governor had roused himself from his abstracted mood , and listened with a smile to the conversation of his young relatives .
Yet his voice had something peculiar in its tones when he undertook the explanation of the mystery .
`` I am sorry , Alice , to destroy your faith in the legends of which you are so fond , '' remarked he , `` but my antiquarian researches have long since made me acquainted with the subject of this picture -- if picture it can be called -- which is no more visible , nor ever will be , than the face of the long-buried man whom it once represented .
It was the portrait of Edward Randolph , the founder of this house , a person famous in the history of New England . ''
`` Of that Edward Randolph , '' exclaimed Captain Lincoln , `` who obtained the repeal of the first provincial charter , under which our forefathers had enjoyed almost democratic privileges -- he that was styled the arch-enemy of New England , and whose memory is still held in detestation as the destroyer of our liberties ? ''
`` It was the same Randolph , '' answered Hutchinson , moving uneasily in his chair .
`` It was his lot to taste the bitterness of popular odium . ''
`` Our annals tell us , '' continued the captain of Castle William , `` that the curse of the people followed this Randolph where he went and wrought evil in all the subsequent events of his life , and that its effect was seen , likewise , in the manner of his death .
They say , too , that the inward misery of that curse worked itself outward and was visible on the wretched man 's countenance , making it too horrible to be looked upon .
If so , and if this picture truly represented his aspect , it was in mercy that the cloud of blackness has gathered over it . ''
`` These traditions are folly to one who has proved , as I have , how little of historic truth lies at the bottom , '' said the lieutenant-governor .
`` As regards the life and character of Edward Randolph , too implicit credence has been given to Dr. Cotton Mather , who -- I must say it , though some of his blood runs in my veins -- has filled our early history with old women 's tales as fanciful and extravagant as those of Greece or Rome . ''
`` And yet , '' whispered Alice Vane , `` may not such fables have a moral ?
And methinks , if the visage of this portrait be so dreadful , it is not without a cause that it has hung so long in a chamber of the province-house .
When the rulers feel themselves irresponsible , it were well that they should be reminded of the awful weight of a people 's curse . ''
The lieutenant-governor started and gazed for a moment at his niece , as if her girlish fantasies had struck upon some feeling in his own breast which all his policy or principles could not entirely subdue .
He knew , indeed , that Alice , in spite of her foreign education , retained the native sympathies of a New England girl .
`` Peace , silly child ! ''
cried he , at last , more harshly than he had ever before addressed the gentle Alice .
`` The rebuke of a king ; is more to be dreaded than the clamor of a wild , misguided multitude .
-- Captain Lincoln , it is decided : the fortress of Castle William must be occupied by the royal troops .
The two remaining regiments shall be billeted in the town or encamped upon the Common .
It is time , after years of tumult , and almost rebellion , that His Majesty 's government should have a wall of strength about it . ''
`` Trust , sir -- trust yet a while to the loyalty of the people , '' said Captain Lincoln , `` nor teach them that they can ever be on other terms with British soldiers than those of brotherhood , as when they fought side by side through the French war .
Do not convert the streets of your native town into a camp .
Think twice before you give up old Castle William , the key of the province , into other keeping than that of true-born New Englanders . ''
`` Young man , it is decided , '' repeated Hutchinson , rising from his chair .
`` A British officer will be in attendance this evening to receive the necessary instructions for the disposal of the troops .
Your presence also will be required .
Till then , farewell . ''
With these words the lieutenant-governor hastily left the room , while Alice and her cousin more slowly followed , whispering together , and once pausing to glance back at the mysterious picture .
The captain of Castle William fancied that the girl 's air and mien were such as might have belonged to one of those spirits of fable -- fairies or creatures of a more antique mythology -- who sometimes mingled their agency with mortal affairs , half in caprice , yet with a sensibility to human weal or woe .
As he held the door for her to pass Alice beckoned to the picture and smiled .
`` Come forth , dark and evil shape ! ''
cried she .
`` It is thine hour . ''
In the evening Lieutenant-governor Hutchinson sat in the same chamber where the foregoing scene had occurred , surrounded by several persons whose various interests had summoned them together .
There were the selectmen of Boston -- plain patriarchal fathers of the people , excellent representatives of the old puritanical founders whose sombre strength had stamped so deep an impress upon the New England character .
Contrasting with these were one or two members of council , richly dressed in the white wigs , the embroidered waistcoats and other magnificence of the time , and making a somewhat ostentatious display of courtier-like ceremonial .
In attendance , likewise , was a major of the British army , awaiting the lieutenant-governor 's orders for the landing of the troops , which still remained on board the transports .
The captain of Castle William stood beside Hutchinson 's chair , with folded arms , glancing rather haughtily at the British officer by whom he was soon to be superseded in his command .
On a table in the centre of the chamber stood a branched silver candlestick , throwing down the glow of half a dozen waxlights upon a paper apparently ready for the lieutenant-governor 's signature .
Partly shrouded in the voluminous folds of one of the window-curtains , which fell from the ceiling to the floor , was seen the white drapery of a lady 's robe .
It may appear strange that Alice Vane should have been there at such a time , but there was something so childlike , so wayward , in her singular character , so apart from ordinary rules , that her presence did not surprise the few who noticed it .
Meantime , the chairman of the selectmen was addressing to the lieutenant-governor a long and solemn protest against the reception of the British troops into the town .
`` And if Your Honor , '' concluded this excellent but somewhat prosy old gentleman , `` shall see fit to persist in bringing these mercenary sworders and musketeers into our quiet streets , not on our heads be the responsibility .
Think , sir , while there is yet time , that if one drop of blood be shed , that blood shall be an eternal stain upon Your Honor 's memory .
You , sir , have written with an able pen the deeds of our forefathers ; the more to be desired is it , therefore , that yourself should deserve honorable mention as a true patriot and upright ruler when your own doings shall be written down in history . ''
`` I am not insensible , my good sir , to the natural desire to stand well in the annals of my country , '' replied Hutchinson , controlling his impatience into courtesy , `` nor know I any better method of attaining that end than by withstanding the merely temporary spirit of mischief which , with your pardon , seems to have infected older men than myself .
Would you have me wait till the mob shall sack the province-house as they did my private mansion ?
Trust me , sir , the time may come when you will be glad to flee for protection to the king 's banner , the raising of which is now so distasteful to you . ''
`` Yes , '' said the British major , who was impatiently expecting the lieutenant-governor 's orders .
`` The demagogues of this province have raised the devil , and can not lay him again .
We will exorcise him in God 's name and the king 's . ''
`` If you meddle with the devil , take care of his claws , '' answered the captain of Castle William , stirred by the taunt against his countrymen .
`` Craving your pardon , young sir , '' said the venerable selectman , `` let not an evil spirit enter into your words .
We will strive against the oppressor with prayer and fasting , as our forefathers would have done .
Like them , moreover , we will submit to whatever lot a wise Providence may send us -- always after our own best exertions to amend it . ''
`` And there peep forth the devil 's claws ! ''
muttered Hutchinson , who well understood the nature of Puritan submission .
`` This matter shall be expedited forthwith .
When there shall be a sentinel at every corner and a court of guard before the town-house , a loyal gentleman may venture to walk abroad .
What to me is the outcry of a mob in this remote province of the realm ?
The king is my master , and England is my country ; upheld by their armed strength , I set my foot upon the rabble and defy them . ''
He snatched a pen and was about to affix his signature to the paper that lay on the table , when the captain of Castle William placed his hand upon his shoulder .
The freedom of the action , so contrary to the ceremonious respect which was then considered due to rank and dignity , awakened general surprise , and in none more than in the lieutenant-governor himself .
Looking angrily up , he perceived that his young relative was pointing his finger to the opposite wall .
Hutchinson 's eye followed the signal , and he saw what had hitherto been unobserved -- that a black silk curtain was suspended before the mysterious picture , so as completely to conceal it .
His thoughts immediately recurred to the scene of the preceding afternoon , and in his surprise , confused by indistinct emotions , yet sensible that his niece must have had an agency in this phenomenon , he called loudly upon her : `` Alice !
Come hither , Alice ! ''
No sooner had he spoken than Alice Vane glided from her station , and , pressing one hand across her eyes , with the other snatched away the sable curtain that concealed the portrait .
An exclamation of surprise burst from every beholder , but the lieutenant-governor 's voice had a tone of horror .
`` By Heaven ! ''
said he , in a low inward murmur , speaking rather to himself than to those around him ; `` if the spirit of Edward Randolph were to appear among us from the place of torment , he could not wear more of the terrors of hell upon his face . ''
`` For some wise end , '' said the aged selectman , solemnly , `` hath Providence scattered away the mist of years that had so long hid this dreadful effigy .
Until this hour no living man hath seen what we behold . ''
Within the antique frame which so recently had enclosed a sable waste of canvas now appeared a visible picture-still dark , indeed , in its hues and shadings , but thrown forward in strong relief .
It was a half-length figure of a gentleman in a rich but very old-fashioned dress of embroidered velvet , with a broad ruff and a beard , and wearing a hat the brim of which overshadowed his forehead .
Beneath this cloud the eyes had a peculiar glare which was almost lifelike .
The whole portrait started so distinctly out of the background that it had the effect of a person looking down from the wall at the astonished and awe-stricken spectators .
The expression of the face , if any words can convey an idea of it , was that of a wretch detected in some hideous guilt and exposed to the bitter hatred and laughter and withering scorn of a vast surrounding multitude .
There was the struggle of defiance , beaten down and overwhelmed by the crushing weight of ignominy .
The torture of the soul had come forth upon the countenance .
It seemed as if the picture , while hidden behind the cloud of immemorial years , had been all the time acquiring an intenser depth and darkness of expression , till now it gloomed forth again and threw its evil omen over the present hour .
Such , if the wild legend may be credited , was the portrait of Edward Randolph as he appeared when a people 's curse had wrought its influence upon his nature . ''
` Twould drive me mad , that awful face , '' said Hutchinson , who seemed fascinated by the contemplation of it .
`` Be warned , then , '' whispered Alice .
`` He trampled on a people 's rights .
Behold his punishment , and avoid a crime like his . ''
The lieutenant-governor actually trembled for an instant , but , exerting his energy -- which was not , however , his most characteristic feature -- he strove to shake off the spell of Randolph 's countenance .
`` Girl , '' cried he , laughing bitterly , as he turned to Alice , `` have you brought hither your painter 's art , your Italian spirit of intrigue , your tricks of stage-effect , and think to influence the councils of rulers and the affairs of nations by such shallow contrivances ?
See here ! ''
`` Stay yet a while , '' said the selectman as Hutchinson again snatched the pen ; `` for if ever mortal man received a warning from a tormented soul , Your Honor is that man . ''
`` Away ! ''
answered Hutchinson , fiercely .
`` Though yonder senseless picture cried ` Forbear ! '
it should not move me ! ''
Casting a scowl of defiance at the pictured face -- which seemed at that moment to intensify the horror of its miserable and wicked look -- he scrawled on the paper , in characters that betokened it a deed of desperation , the name of Thomas Hutchinson .
Then , it is said , he shuddered , as if that signature had granted away his salvation .
`` It is done , '' said he , and placed his hand upon his brow .
`` May Heaven forgive the deed ! ''
said the soft , sad accents of Alice Vane , like the voice of a good spirit flitting away .
When morning came , there was a stifled whisper through the household , and spreading thence about the town , that the dark mysterious picture had started from the wall and spoken face to face with Lieutenant-governor Hutchinson .
If such a miracle had been wrought , however , no traces of it remained behind ; for within the antique frame nothing could be discerned save the impenetrable cloud which had covered the canvas since the memory of man .
If the figure had , indeed , stepped forth , it had fled back , spirit-like , at the day-dawn , and hidden itself behind a century 's obscurity .
The truth probably was that Alice Vane 's secret for restoring the hues of the picture had merely effected a temporary renovation .
But those who in that brief interval had beheld the awful visage of Edward Randolph desired no second glance , and ever afterward trembled at the recollection of the scene , as if an evil spirit had appeared visibly among them .
And , as for Hutchinson , when , far over the ocean , his dying-hour drew on , he gasped for breath and complained that he was choking with the blood of the Boston Massacre , and Francis Lincoln , the former captain of Castle William , who was standing at his bedside , perceived a likeness in his frenzied look to that of Edward Randolph .
Did his broken spirit feel at that dread hour the tremendous burden of a people 's curse ?
* * * * * At the conclusion of this miraculous legend I inquired of mine host whether the picture still remained in the chamber over our heads , but Mr. Tiffany informed me that it had long since been removed , and was supposed to be hidden in some out-of-the-way corner of the New England Museum .
Perchance some curious antiquary may light upon it there , and , with the assistance of Mr. Howorth , the picture-cleaner , may supply a not unnecessary proof of the authenticity of the facts here set down .
During the progress of the story a storm had been gathering abroad and raging and rattling so loudly in the upper regions of the Province House that it seemed as if all the old governors and great men were running riot above stairs while Mr. Bela Tiffany babbled of them below .
In the course of generations , when many people have lived and died in an ancient house , the whistling of the wind through its crannies and the creaking of its beams and rafters become strangely like the tones of the human voice , or thundering laughter , or heavy footsteps treading the deserted chambers .
It is as if the echoes of half a century were revived .
Such were the ghostly sounds that roared and murmured in our ears when I took leave of the circle round the fireside of the Province House and , plunging down the doorsteps , fought my way homeward against a drifting snow-storm .
III .
LADY ELEANORE 'S MANTLE .
Mine excellent friend the landlord of the Province House was pleased the other evening to invite Mr. Tiffany and myself to an oyster-supper .
This slight mark of respect and gratitude , as he handsomely observed , was far less than the ingenious tale-teller , and I , the humble note-taker of his narratives , had fairly earned by the public notice which our joint lucubrations had attracted to his establishment .
Many a cigar had been smoked within his premises , many a glass of wine or more potent aqua vit had been quaffed , many a dinner had been eaten , by curious strangers who , save for the fortunate conjunction of Mr. Tiffany and me , would never have ventured through that darksome avenue which gives access to the historic precincts of the Province House .
In short , if any credit be due to the courteous assurances of Mr. Thomas Waite , we had brought his forgotten mansion almost as effectually into public view as if we had thrown down the vulgar range of shoe-shops and dry-good stores which hides its aristocratic front from Washington street .
It may be unadvisable , however , to speak too loudly of the increased custom of the house , lest Mr. Waite should find it difficult to renew the lease on so favorable terms as heretofore .
Being thus welcomed as benefactors , neither Mr. Tiffany nor myself felt any scruple in doing full justice to the good things that were set before us .
If the feast were less magnificent than those same panelled walls had witnessed in a bygone century ; if mine host presided with somewhat less of state than might have befitted a successor of the royal governors ; if the guests made a less imposing show than the bewigged and powdered and embroidered dignitaries who erst banqueted at the gubernatorial table and now sleep within their armorial tombs on Copp 's Hill or round King 's Chapel , -- yet never , I may boldly say , did a more comfortable little party assemble in the province-house from Queen Anne 's days to the Revolution .
The occasion was rendered more interesting by the presence of a venerable personage whose own actual reminiscences went back to the epoch of Gage and Howe , and even supplied him with a doubtful anecdote or two of Hutchinson .
He was one of that small , and now all but extinguished , class whose attachment to royalty , and to the colonial institutions and customs that were connected with it , had never yielded to the democratic heresies of after-times .
The young queen of Britain has not a more loyal subject in her realm -- perhaps not one who would kneel before her throne with such reverential love -- as this old grandsire whose head has whitened beneath the mild sway of the republic which still in his mellower moments he terms a usurpation .
Yet prejudices so obstinate have not made him an ungentle or impracticable companion .
If the truth must be told , the life of the aged loyalist has been of such a scrambling and unsettled character -- he has had so little choice of friends and been so often destitute of any -- that I doubt whether he would refuse a cup of kindness with either Oliver Cromwell or John Hancock , to say nothing of any democrat now upon the stage .
In another paper of this series I may perhaps give the reader a closer glimpse of his portrait .
Our host in due season uncorked a bottle of Madeira of such exquisite perfume and admirable flavor that he surely must have discovered it in an ancient bin down deep beneath the deepest cellar where some jolly old butler stored away the governor 's choicest wine and forgot to reveal the secret on his death-bed .
Peace to his red-nosed ghost and a libation to his memory !
This precious liquor was imbibed by Mr. Tiffany with peculiar zest , and after sipping the third glass it was his pleasure to give us one of the oddest legends which he had yet raked from the storehouse where he keeps such matters .
With some suitable adornments from my own fancy , it ran pretty much as follows .
* * * * * Not long after Colonel Shute had assumed the government of Massachusetts Bay -- now nearly a hundred and twenty years ago -- a young lady of rank and fortune arrived from England to claim his protection as her guardian .
He was her distant relative , but the nearest who had survived the gradual extinction of her family ; so that no more eligible shelter could be found for the rich and high-born Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe than within the province-house of a Transatlantic colony .
The consort of Governor Shute , moreover , had been as a mother to her childhood , and was now anxious to receive her in the hope that a beautiful young woman would be exposed to infinitely less peril from the primitive society of New England than amid the artifices and corruptions of a court .
If either the governor or his lady had especially consulted their own comfort , they would probably have sought to devolve the responsibility on other hands , since with some noble and splendid traits of character Lady Eleanore was remarkable for a harsh , unyielding pride , a haughty consciousness of her hereditary and personal advantages , which made her almost incapable of control .
Judging from many traditionary anecdotes , this peculiar temper was hardly less than a monomania ; or if the acts which it inspired were those of a sane person , it seemed due from Providence that pride so sinful should be followed by as severe a retribution .
That tinge of the marvellous which is thrown over so many of these half-forgotten legends has probably imparted an additional wildness to the strange story of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe .
The ship in which she came passenger had arrived at Newport , whence Lady Eleanore was conveyed to Boston in the governor 's coach , attended by a small escort of gentlemen on horseback .
The ponderous equipage , with its four black horses , attracted much notice as it rumbled through Cornhill surrounded by the prancing steeds of half a dozen cavaliers with swords dangling to their stirrups and pistols at their holsters .
Through the large glass windows of the coach , as it rolled along , the people could discern the figure of Lady Eleanore , strangely combining an almost queenly stateliness with the grace and beauty of a maiden in her teens .
A singular tale had gone abroad among the ladies of the province that their fair rival was indebted for much of the irresistible charm of her appearance to a certain article of dress -- an embroidered mantle -- which had been wrought by the most skilful artist in London , and possessed even magical properties of adornment .
On the present occasion , however , she owed nothing to the witchery of dress , being clad in a riding-habit of velvet which would have appeared stiff and ungraceful on any other form .
The coachman reined in his four black steeds , and the whole cavalcade came to a pause in front of the contorted iron balustrade that fenced the province-house from the public street .
It was an awkward coincidence that the bell of the Old South was just then tolling for a funeral ; so that , instead of a gladsome peal with which it was customary to announce the arrival of distinguished strangers , Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe was ushered by a doleful clang , as if calamity had come embodied in her beautiful person .
`` A very great disrespect ! ''
exclaimed Captain Langford , an English officer who had recently brought despatches to Governor Shute .
`` The funeral should have been deferred lest Lady Eleanore 's spirits be affected by such a dismal welcome . ''
`` With your pardon , sir , '' replied Dr. Clarke , a physician and a famous champion of the popular party , `` whatever the heralds may pretend , a dead beggar must have precedence of a living queen .
King Death confers high privileges . ''
These remarks-were interchanged while the speakers waited a passage through the crowd which had gathered on each side of the gateway , leaving an open avenue to the portal of the province-house .
A black slave in livery now leaped from behind the coach and threw open the door , while at the same moment Governor Shute descended the flight of steps from his mansion to assist Lady Eleanore in alighting .
But the governor 's stately approach was anticipated in a manner that excited general astonishment .
A pale young man with his black hair all in disorder rushed from the throng and prostrated himself beside the coach , thus offering his person as a footstool for Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe to tread upon .
She held back an instant , yet with an expression as if doubting whether the young man were worthy to bear the weight of her footstep rather than dissatisfied to receive such awful reverence from a fellow-mortal .
`` Up , sir ! ''
said the governor , sternly , at the same time lifting his cane over the intruder .
`` What means the Bedlamite by this freak ? ''
`` Nay , '' answered Lady Eleanore , playfully , but with more scorn than pity in her tone ; `` Your Excellency shall not strike him .
When men seek only to be trampled upon , it were a pity to deny them a favor so easily granted -- and so well deserved ! ''
Then , though as lightly as a sunbeam on a cloud , she placed her foot upon the cowering form and extended her hand to meet that of the governor .
There was a brief interval during which Lady Eleanore retained this attitude , and never , surely , was there an apter emblem of aristocracy and hereditary pride trampling on human sympathies and the kindred of nature than these two figures presented at that moment .
Yet the spectators were so smitten with her beauty , and so essential did pride seem to the existence of such a creature , that they gave a simultaneous acclamation of applause .
`` Who is this insolent young fellow ? ''
inquired Captain Langford , who still remained beside Dr. Clarke .
`` If he be in his senses , his impertinence demands the bastinado ; if mad , Lady Eleanore should be secured from further inconvenience by his confinement . ''
`` His name is Jervase Helwyse , '' answered the doctor -- `` a youth of no birth or fortune , or other advantages save the mind and soul that nature gave him ; and , being secretary to our colonial agent in London , it was his misfortune to meet this Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe .
He loved her , and her scorn has driven him mad . ''
`` He was mad so to aspire , '' observed the English officer .
`` It may be so , '' said Dr. Clarke , frowning as he spoke ; `` but I tell you , sir , I could wellnigh doubt the justice of the Heaven above us if no signal humiliation overtake this lady who now treads so haughtily into yonder mansion .
She seeks to place herself above the sympathies of our common nature , which envelops all human souls ; see if that nature do not assert its claim over her in some mode that shall bring her level with the lowest . ''
`` Never ! ''
cried Captain Langford , indignantly -- `` neither in life nor when they lay her with her ancestors . ''
Not many days afterward the governor gave a ball in honor of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe .
The principal gentry of the colony received invitations , which were distributed to their residences far and near by messengers on horseback bearing missives sealed with all the formality of official despatches .
In obedience to the summons , there was a general gathering of rank , wealth and beauty , and the wide door of the province-house had seldom given admittance to more numerous and honorable guests than on the evening of Lady Eleanore 's ball .
Without much extravagance of eulogy , the spectacle might even be termed splendid , for , according to the fashion of the times , the ladies shone in rich silks and satins outspread over wide-projecting hoops , and the gentlemen glittered in gold embroidery laid unsparingly upon the purple or scarlet or sky-blue velvet which was the material of their coats and waistcoats .
The latter article of dress was of great importance , since it enveloped the wearer 's body nearly to the knees and was perhaps bedizened with the amount of his whole year 's income in golden flowers and foliage .
The altered taste of the present day -- a taste symbolic of a deep change in the whole system of society -- would look upon almost any of those gorgeous figures as ridiculous , although that evening the guests sought their reflections in the pier-glasses and rejoiced to catch their own glitter amid the glittering crowd .
What a pity that one of the stately mirrors has not preserved a picture of the scene which by the very traits that were so transitory might have taught us much that would be worth knowing and remembering !
Would , at least , that either painter or mirror could convey to us some faint idea of a garment already noticed in this legend -- the Lady Eleanore 's embroidered mantle , which the gossips whispered was invested with magic properties , so as to lend a new and untried grace to her figure each time that she put it on !
Idle fancy as it is , this mysterious mantle has thrown an awe around my image of her , partly from its fabled virtues and partly because it was the handiwork of a dying woman , and perchance owed the fantastic grace of its conception to the delirium of approaching death .
After the ceremonial greetings had been paid , Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe stood apart from the mob of guests , insulating herself within a small and distinguished circle to whom she accorded a more cordial favor than to the general throng .
The waxen torches threw their radiance vividly over the scene , bringing out its brilliant points in strong relief , but she gazed carelessly , and with now and then an expression of weariness or scorn tempered with such feminine grace that her auditors scarcely perceived the moral deformity of which it was the utterance .
She beheld the spectacle not with vulgar ridicule , as disdaining to be pleased with the provincial mockery of a court-festival , but with the deeper scorn of one whose spirit held itself too high to participate in the enjoyment of other human souls .
Whether or no the recollections of those who saw her that evening were influenced by the strange events with which she was subsequently connected , so it was that her figure ever after recurred to them as marked by something wild and unnatural , although at the time the general whisper was of her exceeding beauty and of the indescribable charm which her mantle threw around her .
Some close observers , indeed , detected a feverish flush and alternate paleness of countenance , with a corresponding flow and revulsion of spirits , and once or twice a painful and helpless betrayal of lassitude , as if she were on the point of sinking to the ground .
Then , with a nervous shudder , she seemed to arouse her energies , and threw some bright and playful yet half-wicked sarcasm into the conversation .
There was so strange a characteristic in her manners and sentiments that it astonished every right-minded listener , till , looking in her face , a lurking and incomprehensible glance and smile perplexed them with doubts both as to her seriousness and sanity .
Gradually , Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe 's circle grew smaller , till only four gentlemen remained in it .
These were Captain Langford , the English officer before mentioned ; a Virginian planter who had come to Massachusetts on some political errand ; a young Episcopal clergyman , the grandson of a British earl ; and , lastly , the private secretary of Governor Shute , whose obsequiousness had won a sort of tolerance from Lady Eleanore .
At different periods of the evening the liveried servants of the province-house passed among the guests bearing huge trays of refreshments and French and Spanish wines .
Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe , who refused to wet her beautiful lips even with a bubble of champagne , had sunk back into a large damask chair , apparently overwearied either with the excitement of the scene or its tedium ; and while , for an instant , she was unconscious of voices , laughter and music , a young man stole forward and knelt down at her feet .
He bore a salver in his hand on which was a chased silver goblet filled to the brim with wine , which he offered as reverentially as to a crowned queen -- or , rather , with the awful devotion of a priest doing sacrifice to his idol .
Conscious that some one touched her robe , Lady Eleanore started , and unclosed her eyes upon the pale , wild features and dishevelled hair of Jervase Helwyse .
`` Why do you haunt me thus ? ''
said she , in a languid tone , but with a kindlier feeling than she ordinarily permitted herself to express .
`` They tell me that I have done you harm . ''
`` Heaven knows if that be so , '' replied the young man , solemnly .
`` But , Lady Eleanore , in requital of that harm , if such there be , and for your own earthly and heavenly welfare , I pray you to take one sip of this holy wine and then to pass the goblet round among the guests .
And this shall be a symbol that you have not sought to withdraw yourself from the chain of human sympathies , which whoso would shake off must keep company with fallen angels . ''
`` Where has this mad fellow stolen that sacramental vessel ? ''
exclaimed the Episcopal clergyman .
This question drew the notice of the guests to the silver cup , which was recognized as appertaining to the communion-plate of the Old South Church , and , for aught that could be known , it was brimming over with the consecrated wine .
`` Perhaps it is poisoned , '' half whispered the governor 's secretary .
`` Pour it down the villain 's throat ! ''
cried the Virginian , fiercely .
`` Turn him out of the house ! ''
cried Captain Langford , seizing Jervase Helwyse so roughly by the shoulder that the sacramental cup was overturned and its contents sprinkled upon Lady Eleanore 's mantle .
`` Whether knave , fool or Bedlamite , it is intolerable that the fellow should go at large . ''
`` Pray , gentlemen , do my poor admirer no harm , '' said Lady Eleanore , with a faint and weary smile .
`` Take him out of my sight , if such be your pleasure , for I can find in my heart to do nothing but laugh at him , whereas , in all decency and conscience , it would become me to weep for the mischief I have wrought . ''
But while the bystanders were attempting to lead away the unfortunate young man he broke from them and with a wild , impassioned earnestness offered a new and equally strange petition to Lady Eleanore .
It was no other than that she should throw off the mantle , which while he pressed the silver cup of wine upon her she had drawn more closely around her form , so as almost to shroud herself within it .
`` Cast it from you , '' exclaimed Jervase Helwyse , clasping his hands in an agony of entreaty .
`` It may not yet be too late .
Give the accursed garment to the flames . ''
But Lady Eleanore , with a laugh of scorn , drew the rich folds of the embroidered mantle over her head in such a fashion as to give a completely new aspect to her beautiful face , which , half hidden , half revealed , seemed to belong to some being of mysterious character and purposes .
`` Farewell , Jervase Helwyse ! ''
said she .
`` Keep my image in your remembrance as you behold it now . ''
`` Alas , lady ! ''
he replied , in a tone no longer wild , but sad as a funeral-bell ; `` we must meet shortly when your face may wear another aspect , and that shall be the image that must abide within me . ''
He made no more resistance to the violent efforts of the gentlemen and servants who almost dragged him out of the apartment and dismissed him roughly from the iron gate of the province-house .
Captain Langford , who had been very active in this affair , was returning to the presence of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe , when he encountered the physician , Dr. Clarke , with whom he had held some casual talk on the day of her arrival .
The doctor stood apart , separated from Lady Eleanore by the width of the room , but eying her with such keen sagacity that Captain Langford involuntarily gave him credit for the discovery of some deep secret .
`` You appear to be smitten , after all , with the charms of this queenly maiden , '' said he , hoping thus to draw forth the physician 's hidden knowledge .
`` God forbid ! ''
answered Dr. Clarke , with a grave smile ; `` and if you be wise , you will put up the same prayer for yourself .
Woe to those who shall be smitten by this beautiful Lady Eleanore !
But yonder stands the governor , and I have a word or two for his private ear .
Good-night ! ''
He accordingly advanced to Governor Shute and addressed him in so low a tone that none of the bystanders could catch a word of what he said , although the sudden change of His Excellency 's hitherto cheerful visage betokened that the communication could be of no agreeable import .
A very few moments afterward it was announced to the guests that an unforeseen circumstance rendered it necessary to put a premature close to the festival .
The ball at the province-house supplied a topic of conversation for the colonial metropolis for some days after its occurrence , and might still longer have been the general theme , only that a subject of all-engrossing interest thrust it for a time from the public recollection .
This was the appearance of a dreadful epidemic which in that age , and long before and afterward , was wont to slay its hundreds and thousands on both sides of the Atlantic .
On the occasion of which we speak it was distinguished by a peculiar virulence , insomuch that it has left its traces -- its pitmarks , to use an appropriate figure -- on the history of the country , the affairs of which were thrown into confusion by its ravages .
At first , unlike its ordinary course , the disease seemed to confine itself to the higher circles of society , selecting its victims from among the proud , the well-born and the wealthy , entering unabashed into stately chambers and lying down with the slumberers in silken beds .
Some of the most distinguished guests of the province-house -- even those whom the haughty Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe had deemed not unworthy of her favor -- were stricken by this fatal scourge .
It was noticed with an ungenerous bitterness of feeling that the four gentlemen -- the Virginian , the British officer , the young clergyman and the governor 's secretary -- who had been her most devoted attendants on the evening of the ball were the foremost on whom the plague-stroke fell .
But the disease , pursuing its onward progress , soon ceased to be exclusively a prerogative of aristocracy .
Its red brand was no longer conferred like a noble 's star or an order of knighthood .
It threaded its way through the narrow and crooked streets , and entered the low , mean , darksome dwellings and laid its hand of death upon the artisans and laboring classes of the town .
It compelled rich and poor to feel themselves brethren then , and stalking to and fro across the Three Hills with a fierceness which made it almost a new pestilence , there was that mighty conqueror -- that scourge and horror of our forefathers -- the small-pox .
We can not estimate the affright which this plague inspired of yore by contemplating it as the fangless monster of the present day .
We must remember , rather , with what awe we watched the gigantic footsteps of the Asiatic cholera striding from shore to shore of the Atlantic and marching like Destiny upon cities far remote which flight had already half depopulated .
There is no other fear so horrible and unhumanizing as that which makes man dread to breathe heaven 's vital air lest it be poison , or to grasp the hand of a brother or friend lest the grip of the pestilence should clutch him .
Such was the dismay that now followed in the track of the disease or ran before it throughout the town .
Graves were hastily dug and the pestilential relics as hastily covered , because the dead were enemies of the living and strove to draw them headlong , as it were , into their own dismal pit .
The public councils were suspended , as if mortal wisdom might relinquish its devices now that an unearthly usurper had found his way into the ruler 's mansion .
Had an enemy 's fleet been hovering on the coast or his armies trampling on our soil , the people would probably have committed their defence to that same direful conqueror who had wrought their own calamity and would permit no interference with his sway .
This conqueror had a symbol of his triumphs : it was a blood-red flag that fluttered in the tainted air over the door of every dwelling into which the small-pox had entered .
Such a banner was long since waving over the portal of the province-house , for thence , as was proved by tracking its footsteps back , had all this dreadful mischief issued .
It had been traced back to a lady 's luxurious chamber , to the proudest of the proud , to her that was so delicate and hardly owned herself of earthly mould , to the haughty one who took her stand above human sympathies -- to Lady Eleanore .
There remained no room for doubt that the contagion had lurked in that gorgeous mantle which threw so strange a grace around her at the festival .
Its fantastic splendor had been conceived in the delirious brain of a woman on her death-bed and was the last toil of her stiffening fingers , which had interwoven fate and misery with its golden threads .
This dark tale , whispered at first , was now bruited far and wide .
The people raved against the Lady Eleanore and cried out that her pride and scorn had evoked a fiend , and that between them both this monstrous evil had been born .
At times their rage and despair took the semblance of grinning mirth ; and whenever the red flag of the pestilence was hoisted over another and yet another door , they clapped their hands and shouted through the streets in bitter mockery : `` Behold a new triumph for the Lady Eleanore ! ''
One day in the midst of these dismal times a wild figure approached the portal of the province-house , and , folding his arms , stood contemplating the scarlet banner , which a passing breeze shook fitfully , as if to fling abroad the contagion that it typified .
At length , climbing one of the pillars by means of the iron balustrade , he took down the flag , and entered the mansion waving it above his head .
At the foot of the staircase he met the governor , booted and spurred , with his cloak drawn around him , evidently on the point of setting forth upon a journey .
`` Wretched lunatic , what do you seek here ? ''
exclaimed Shute , extending his cane to guard himself from contact .
`` There is nothing here but Death ; back , or you will meet him . ''
`` Death will not touch me , the banner-bearer of the pestilence , '' cried Jervase Helwyse , shaking the red flag aloft .
`` Death and the pestilence , who wears the aspect of the Lady Eleanore , will walk through the streets to-night , and I must march before them with this banner . ''
`` Why do I waste words on the fellow ? ''
muttered the governor , drawing his cloak across his mouth .
`` What matters his miserable life , when none of us are sure of twelve hours ' breath ?
-- On , fool , to your own destruction ! ''
He made way for Jervase Helwyse , who immediately ascended the staircase , but on the first landing-place was arrested by the firm grasp of a hand upon his shoulder .
Looking fiercely up with a madman 's impulse to struggle with and rend asunder his opponent , he found himself powerless beneath a calm , stern eye which possessed the mysterious property of quelling frenzy at its height .
The person whom he had now encountered was the physician , Dr. Clarke , the duties of whose sad profession had led him to the province-house , where he was an infrequent guest in more prosperous times .
`` Young man , what is your purpose ? ''
demanded he .
`` I seek the Lady Eleanore , '' answered Jervase Helwyse , submissively .
`` All have fled from her , '' said the physician .
`` Why do you seek her now ?
I tell you , youth , her nurse fell death-stricken on the threshold of that fatal chamber .
Know ye not that never came such a curse to our shores as this lovely Lady Eleanore , that her breath has filled the air with poison , that she has shaken pestilence and death upon the land from the folds of her accursed mantle ? ''
`` Let me look upon her , '' rejoined the mad youth , more wildly .
`` Let me behold her in her awful beauty , clad in the regal garments of the pestilence .
She and Death sit on a throne together ; let me kneel down before them . ''
`` Poor youth ! ''
said Dr. Clarke , and , moved by a deep sense of human weakness , a smile of caustic humor curled his lip even then .
`` Wilt thou still worship the destroyer and surround her image with fantasies the more magnificent the more evil she has wrought ?
Thus man doth ever to his tyrants .
Approach , then .
Madness , as I have noted , has that good efficacy that it will guard you from contagion , and perhaps its own cure may be found in yonder chamber . ''
Ascending another flight of stairs , he threw open a door and signed to Jervase Helwyse that he should enter .
The poor lunatic , it seems probable , had cherished a delusion that his haughty mistress sat in state , unharmed herself by the pestilential influence which as by enchantment she scattered round about her .
He dreamed , no doubt , that her beauty was not dimmed , but brightened into superhuman splendor .
With such anticipations he stole reverentially to the door at which the physician stood , but paused upon the threshold , gazing fearfully into the gloom of the darkened chamber .
`` Where is the Lady Eleanore ? ''
whispered he .
`` Call her , '' replied the physician .
`` Lady Eleanore !
princess !
queen of Death ! ''
cried Jervase Helwyse , advancing three steps into the chamber .
`` She is not here .
There , on yonder table , I behold the sparkle of a diamond which once she wore upon her bosom .
There '' -- and he shuddered -- `` there hangs her mantle , on which a dead woman embroidered a spell of dreadful potency .
But where is the Lady Eleanore ? ''
Something stirred within the silken curtains of a canopied bed and a low moan was uttered , which , listening intently , Jervase Helwyse began to distinguish as a woman 's voice complaining dolefully of thirst .
He fancied , even , that he recognized its tones .
`` My throat !
My throat is scorched , '' murmured the voice .
`` A drop of water ! ''
`` What thing art thou ? ''
said the brain-stricken youth , drawing near the bed and tearing asunder its curtains .
`` Whose voice hast thou stolen for thy murmurs and miserable petitions , as if Lady Eleanore could be conscious of mortal infirmity ?
Fie !
Heap of diseased mortality , why lurkest thou in my lady 's chamber ? ''
`` Oh , Jervase Helwyse , '' said the voice -- and as it spoke the figure contorted itself , struggling to hide its blasted face -- `` look not now on the woman you once loved .
The curse of Heaven hath stricken me because I would not call man my brother nor woman sister .
I wrapped myself in pride as in a mantle and scorned the sympathies of nature , and therefore has Nature made this wretched body the medium of a dreadful sympathy .
You are avenged , they are all avenged , Nature is avenged ; for I am Eleanore Rochcliffe . ''
The malice of his mental disease , the bitterness lurking at the bottom of his heart , mad as he was , for a blighted and ruined life and love that had been paid with cruel scorn , awoke within the breast of Jervase Helwyse .
He shook his finger at the wretched girl , and the chamber echoed , the curtains of the bed were shaken , with his outburst of insane merriment .
`` Another triumph for the Lady Eleanore ! ''
he cried .
`` All have been her victims ; who so worthy to be the final victim as herself ? ''
Impelled by some new fantasy of his crazed intellect , he snatched the fatal mantle and rushed from the chamber and the house .
That night a procession passed by torchlight through the streets , bearing in the midst the figure of a woman enveloped with a richly-embroidered mantle , while in advance stalked Jervase Helwyse waving the red flag of the pestilence .
Arriving opposite the province-house , the mob burned the effigy , and a strong wind came and swept away the ashes .
It was said that from that very hour the pestilence abated , as if its sway had some mysterious connection , from the first plague-stroke to the last , with Lady Elcanore 's mantle .
A remarkable uncertainty broods over that unhappy lady 's fate .
There is a belief , however , that in a certain chamber of this mansion a female form may sometimes be duskily discerned shrinking into the darkest corner and muffling her face within an embroidered mantle .
Supposing the legend true , can this be other than the once proud Lady Eleanore ?
* * * * * Mine host and the old loyalist and I bestowed no little Warmth of applause upon this narrative , in which we had all been deeply interested ; for the reader can scarcely conceive how unspeakably the effect of such a tale is heightened when , as in the present case , we may repose perfect confidence in the veracity of him who tells it .
For my own part , knowing how scrupulous is Mr. Tiffany to settle the foundation of his facts , I could not have believed him one whit the more faithfully had he professed himself an eyewitness of the doings and sufferings of poor Lady Eleanore .
Some sceptics , it is true , might demand documentary evidence , or even require him to produce the embroidered mantle , forgetting that -- Heaven be praised !
-- it was consumed to ashes .
But now the old loyalist , whose blood was warmed by the good cheer , began to talk , in his turn , about the traditions of the Province House , and hinted that he , if it were agreeable , might add a few reminiscences to our legendary stock .
Mr. Tiffany , having no cause to dread a rival , immediately besought him to favor us with a specimen ; my own entreaties , of course , were urged to the same effect ; and our venerable guest , well pleased to find willing auditors , awaited only the return of Mr. Thomas Waite , who had been summoned forth to provide accommodations for several new arrivals .
Perchance the public -- but be this as its own caprice and ours shall settle the matter -- may read the result in another tale of the Province House .
IV .
OLD ESTHER DUDLEY .
Our host having resumed the chair , he as well as Mr. Tiffany and myself expressed much eagerness to be made acquainted with the story to which the loyalist had alluded .
That venerable man first of all saw lit to moisten his throat with another glass of wine , and then , turning his face toward our coal-fire , looked steadfastly for a few moments into the depths of its cheerful glow .
Finally he poured forth a great fluency of speech .
The generous liquid that he had imbibed , while it warmed his age-chilled blood , likewise took off the chill from his heart and mind , and gave him an energy to think and feel which we could hardly have expected to find beneath the snows of fourscore winters .
His feelings , indeed , appeared to me more excitable than those of a younger man -- or , at least , the same degree of feeling manifested itself by more visible effects than if his judgment and will had possessed the potency of meridian life .
At the pathetic passages of his narrative he readily melted into tears .
When a breath of indignation swept across his spirit , the blood flushed his withered visage even to the roots of his white hair , and he shook his clinched fist at the trio of peaceful auditors , seeming to fancy enemies in those who felt very kindly toward the desolate old soul .
But ever and anon , sometimes in the midst of his most earnest talk , this ancient person 's intellect would wander vaguely , losing its hold of the matter in hand and groping for it amid misty shadows .
Then would he cackle forth a feeble laugh and express a doubt whether his wits -- for by that phrase it pleased our ancient friend to signify his mental powers -- were not getting a little the worse for wear .
Under these disadvantages , the old loyalist 's story required more revision to render it fit for the public eye than those of the series which have preceded it ; nor should it be concealed that the sentiment and tone of the affair may have undergone some slight -- or perchance more than slight -- metamorphosis in its transmission to the reader through the medium of a thoroughgoing democrat .
The tale itself is a mere sketch with no involution of plot nor any great interest of events , yet possessing , if I have rehearsed it aright , that pensive influence over the mind which the shadow of the old Province House flings upon the loiterer in its court-yard .
* * * * * The hour had come -- the hour of defeat and humiliation -- when Sir William Howe was to pass over the threshold of the province-house and embark , with no such triumphal ceremonies as he once promised himself , on board the British fleet .
He bade his servants and military attendants go before him , and lingered a moment in the loneliness of the mansion to quell the fierce emotions that struggled in his bosom as with a death-throb .
Preferable then would he have deemed his fate had a warrior 's death left him a claim to the narrow territory of a grave within the soil which the king had given him to defend .
With an ominous perception that as his departing footsteps echoed adown the staircase the sway of Britain was passing for ever from New England , he smote his clenched hand on his brow and cursed the destiny that had flung the shame of a dismembered empire upon him .
`` Would to God , '' cried he , hardly repressing his tears of rage , `` that the rebels were even now at the doorstep !
A blood-stain upon the floor should then bear testimony that the last British ruler was faithful to his trust . ''
The tremulous voice of a woman replied to his exclamation .
`` Heaven 's cause and the king 's are one , '' it said .
`` Go forth , Sir William Howe , and trust in Heaven to bring back a royal governor in triumph . ''
Subduing at once the passion to which he had yielded only in the faith that it was unwitnessed , Sir William Howe became conscious that an aged woman leaning on a gold-headed staff was standing betwixt him and the door .
It was old Esther Dudley , who had dwelt almost immemorial years in this mansion , until her presence seemed as inseparable from it as the recollections of its history .
She was the daughter of an ancient and once eminent family which had fallen into poverty and decay and left its last descendant no resource save the bounty of the king , nor any shelter except within the walls of the province-house .
An office in the household with merely nominal duties had been assigned to her as a pretext for the payment of a small pension , the greater part of which she expended in adorning herself with an antique magnificence of attire .
The claims of Esther Dudley 's gentle blood were acknowledged by all the successive governors , and they treated her with the punctilious courtesy which it was her foible to demand , not always with success , from a neglectful world .
The only actual share which she assumed in the business of the mansion was to glide through its passages and public chambers late at night to see that the servants had dropped no fire from their flaring torches nor left embers crackling and blazing on the hearths .
Perhaps it was this invariable custom of walking her rounds in the hush of midnight that caused the superstition of the times to invest the old woman with attributes of awe and mystery , fabling that she had entered the portal of the province-house -- none knew whence -- in the train of the first royal governor , and that it was her fate to dwell there till the last should have departed .
But Sir William Howe , if he ever heard this legend , had forgotten it .
`` Mistress Dudley , why are you loitering here ? ''
asked he , with some severity of tone .
`` It is my pleasure to be the last in this mansion of the king . ''
`` Not so , if it please Your Excellency , '' answered the time-stricken woman .
`` This roof has sheltered me long ; I will not pass from it until they bear me to the tomb of my forefathers .
What other shelter is there for old Esther Dudley save the province-house or the grave ? ''
`` Now , Heaven forgive me ! ''
said Sir William Howe to himself .
`` I was about to leave this wretched old creature to starve or beg .
-- Take this , good Mistress Dudley , '' he added , putting a purse into her hands .
`` King George 's head on these golden guineas is sterling yet , and will continue so , I warrant you , even should the rebels crown John Hancock their king .
That purse will buy a better shelter than the province-house can now afford . ''
`` While the burden of life remains upon me I will have no other shelter than this roof , '' persisted Esther Dudley , striking her stuff upon the floor with a gesture that expressed immovable resolve ; `` and when Your Excellency returns in triumph , I will totter into the porch to welcome you . ''
`` My poor old friend ! ''
answered the British general , and all his manly and martial pride could no longer restrain a gush of bitter tears .
`` This is an evil hour for you and me .
The province which the king entrusted to my charge is lost .
I go hence in misfortune -- perchance in disgrace -- to return no more .
And you , whose present being is incorporated with the past , who have seen governor after governor in stately pageantry ascend these steps , whose whole life has been an observance of majestic ceremonies and a worship of the king , -- how will you endure the change ?
Come with us ; bid farewell to a land that has shaken off its allegiance , and live still under a royal government at Halifax . ''
`` Never !
never ! ''
said the pertinacious old dame .
`` Here will I abide , and King George shall still have one true subject in his disloyal province . ''
`` Beshrew the old fool ! ''
muttered Sir William Howe , growing impatient of her obstinacy and ashamed of the emotion into which he had been betrayed .
`` She is the very moral of old-fashioned prejudice , and could exist nowhere but in this musty edifice .
-- Well , then , Mistress Dudley , since you will needs tarry , I give the province-house in charge to you .
Take this key , and keep it safe until myself or some other royal governor shall demand it of you . ''
Smiling bitterly at himself and her , he took the heavy key of the province-house , and , delivering it into the old lady 's hands , drew his clonk around him for departure .
As the general glanced back at Esther Dudley 's antique figure he deemed her well fitted for such a charge , as being so perfect a representative of the decayed past -- of an age gone by , with its manners , opinions , faith and feelings all fallen into oblivion or scorn , of what had once been a reality , but was now merely a vision of faded magnificence .
Then Sir William Howe strode forth , smiting his clenched hands together in the fierce anguish of his spirit , and old Esther Dudley was left to keep watch in the lonely province-house , dwelling there with Memory ; and if Hope ever seemed to flit around her , still it was Memory in disguise .
The total change of affairs that ensued on the departure of the British troops did not drive the venerable lady from her stronghold .
There was not for many years afterward a governor of Massachusetts , and the magistrates who had charge of such matters saw no objection to Esther Dudley 's residence in the province-house , especially as they must otherwise have paid a hireling for taking care of the premises , which with her was a labor of love ; and so they left her the undisturbed mistress of the old historic edifice .
Many and strange were the fables which the gossips whispered about her in all the chimney-corners of the town .
Among the time-worn articles of furniture that had been left in the mansion , there was a tall antique mirror which was well worthy of a tale by itself , and perhaps may hereafter be the theme of one .
The gold of its heavily-wrought frame was tarnished , and its surface so blurred that the old woman 's figure , whenever she paused before it , looked indistinct and ghostlike .
But it was the general belief that Esther could cause the governors of the overthrown dynasty , with the beautiful ladies who had once adorned their festivals , the Indian chiefs who had come up to the province-house to hold council or swear allegiance , the grim provincial warriors , the severe clergymen -- in short , all the pageantry of gone days , all the figures that ever swept across the broad-plate of glass in former times , -- she could cause the whole to reappear and people the inner world of the mirror with shadows of old life .
Such legends as these , together with the singularity of her isolated existence , her age and the infirmity that each added winter flung upon her , made Mistress Dudley the object both of fear and pity , and it was partly the result of either sentiment that , amid all the angry license of the times , neither wrong nor insult ever fell upon her unprotected head .
Indeed , there was so much haughtiness in her demeanor toward intruders -- among whom she reckoned all persons acting under the new authorities -- that it was really an affair of no small nerve to look her in the face .
And , to do the people justice , stern republicans as they had now become , they were well content that the old gentlewoman , in her hoop-petticoat and faded embroidery , should still haunt the palace of ruined pride and overthrown power , the symbol of a departed system , embodying a history in her person .
So Esther Dudley dwelt year after year in the province-house , still reverencing all that others had flung aside , still faithful to her king , who , so long as the venerable dame yet held her post , might be said to retain one true subject in New England and one spot of the empire that had been wrested from him .
And did she dwell there in utter loneliness ?
Rumor said , `` Not so . ''
Whenever her chill and withered heart desired warmth , she was wont to summon a black slave of Governor Shirley 's from the blurred mirror and send him in search of guests who had long ago been familiar in those deserted chambers .
Forth went the sable messenger , with the starlight or the moonshine gleaming through him , and did his errand in the burial-grounds , knocking at the iron doors of tombs or upon the marble slabs that covered them , and whispering to those within , `` My mistress , old Esther Dudley , bids you to the province-house at midnight ; '' and punctually as the clock of the Old South told twelve came the shadows of the Olivers , the Hutchinsons , the Dudleys -- all the grandees of a bygone generation -- gliding beneath the portal into the well-known mansion , where Esther mingled with them as if she likewise were a shade .
Without vouching for the truth of such traditions , it is certain that Mistress Dudley sometimes assembled a few of the stanch though crestfallen old Tories who had lingered in the rebel town during those days of wrath and tribulation .
Out of a cobwebbed bottle containing liquor that a royal governor might have smacked his lips over they quaffed healths to the king and babbled treason to the republic , feeling as if the protecting shadow of the throne were still flung around them .
But , draining the last drops of their liquor , they stole timorously homeward , and answered not again if the rude mob reviled them in the street .
Yet Esther Dudley 's most frequent and favored guests were the children of the town .
Toward them she was never stern .
A kindly and loving nature hindered elsewhere from its free course by a thousand rocky prejudices lavished itself upon these little ones .
By bribes of gingerbread of her own making , stamped with a royal crown , she tempted their sunny sportiveness beneath the gloomy portal of the province-house , and would often beguile them to spend a whole play-day there , sitting in a circle round the verge of her hoop-petticoat , greedily attentive to her stories of a dead world .
And when these little boys and girls stole forth again from the dark , mysterious mansion , they went bewildered , full of old feelings that graver people had long ago forgotten , rubbing their eyes at the world around them as if they had gone astray into ancient times and become children of the past .
At home , when their parents asked where they had loitered such a weary while and with whom they had been at play , the children would talk of all the departed worthies of the province as far back as Governor Belcher and the haughty dame of Sir William Phipps .
It would seem as though they had been sitting on the knees of these famous personages , whom the grave had hidden for half a century , and had toyed with the embroidery of their rich waistcoats or roguishly pulled the long curls of their flowing wigs .
`` But Governor Belcher has been dead this many a year , '' would the mother say to her little boy .
`` And did you really see him at the province-house ? ''
-- `` Oh yes , dear mother -- yes ! ''
the half-dreaming child would answer .
`` But when old Esther had done speaking about him , he faded away out of his chair . ''
Thus , without affrighting her little guests , she led them by the hand into the chambers of her own desolate heart and made childhood 's fancy discern the ghosts that haunted there .
Living so continually in her own circle of ideas , and never regulating her mind by a proper reference to present things , Esther Dudley appears to have grown partially crazed .
It was found that she had no right sense of the progress and true state of the Revolutionary war , but held a constant faith that the armies of Britain were victorious on every field and destined to be ultimately triumphant .
Whenever the town rejoiced for a battle won by Washington or Gates or Morgan or Greene , the news , in passing through the door of the province-house as through the ivory gate of dreams , became metamorphosed into a strange tale of the prowess of Howe , Clinton or Cornwallis .
Sooner or later , it was her invincible belief , the colonies would be prostrate at the footstool of the king .
Sometimes she seemed to take for granted that such was already the case .
On one occasion she startled the townspeople by a brilliant illumination of the province-house with candles at every pane of glass and a transparency of the king 's initials and a crown of light in the great balcony-window .
The figure of the aged woman in the most gorgeous of her mildewed velvets and brocades was seen passing from casement to casement , until she paused before the balcony and flourished a huge key above her head .
Her wrinkled visage actually gleamed with triumph , as if the soul within her were a festal lamp .
`` What means this blaze of light ?
What does old Esther 's joy portend ? ''
whispered a spectator .
`` It is frightful to , see her gliding about the chambers and rejoicing there without a soul to bear her company . ''
`` It is as if she were making merry in a tomb , '' said another .
`` Pshaw !
It is no such mystery , '' observed an old man , after some brief exercise of memory .
`` Mistress Dudley is keeping jubilee for the king of England 's birthday . ''
Then the people laughed aloud , and would have thrown mud against the blazing transparency of the king 's crown and initials , only that they pitied the poor old dame who was so dismally triumphant amid the wreck and ruin of the system to which she appertained .
Oftentimes it was her custom to climb the weary staircase that wound upward to the cupola , and thence strain her dimmed eyesight seaward and countryward , watching for a British fleet or for the march of a grand procession with the king 's banner floating over it .
The passengers in the street below would discern her anxious visage and send up a shout : `` When the golden Indian on the province-house shall shoot his arrow , and when the cock on the Old South spire shall crow , then look for a royal governor again ! ''
for this had grown a by-word through the town .
And at last , after long , long years , old Esther Dudley knew -- or perchance she only dreamed -- that a royal governor was on the eve of returning to the province-house to receive the heavy key which Sir William Howe had committed to her charge .
Now , it was the fact that intelligence bearing some faint analogy to Esther 's version of it was current among the townspeople .
She set the mansion in the best order that her means allowed , and , arraying herself in silks and tarnished gold , stood long before the blurred mirror to admire her own magnificence .
As she gazed the gray and withered lady moved her ashen lips , murmuring half aloud , talking to shapes that she saw within the mirror , to shadows of her own fantasies , to the household friends of memory , and bidding them rejoice with her and come forth to meet the governor .
And while absorbed in this communion Mistress Dudley heard the tramp of many footsteps in the street , and , looking out at the window , beheld what she construed as the royal governor 's arrival .
`` Oh , happy day !
Oh , blessed , blessed hour ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` Let me but bid him welcome within the portal , and my task in the province-house and on earth is done . ''
Then , with tottering feet which age and tremulous joy caused to tread amiss , she hurried down the grand staircase , her silks sweeping and rustling as she went ; so that the sound was as if a train of special courtiers were thronging from the dim mirror .
And Esther Dudley fancied that as soon as the wide door should be flung open all the pomp and splendor of bygone times would pace majestically into the province-house and the gilded tapestry of the past would be brightened by the sunshine of the present .
She turned the key , withdrew it from the lock , unclosed the door and stepped across the threshold .
Advancing up the court-yard appeared a person of most dignified mien , with tokens , as Esther interpreted them , of gentle blood , high rank and long-accustomed authority even in his walk and every gesture .
He was richly dressed , but wore a gouty shoe , which , however , did not lessen the stateliness of his gait .
Around and behind him were people in plain civic dresses and two or three war-worn veterans -- evidently officers of rank -- arrayed in a uniform of blue and buff .
But Esther Dudley , firm in the belief that had fastened its roots about her heart , beheld only the principal personage , and never doubted that this was the long-looked-for governor to whom she was to surrender up her charge .
As he approached she involuntarily sank down on her knees and tremblingly held forth the heavy key .
`` Receive my trust !
Take it quickly , '' cried she , `` for methinks Death is striving to snatch away my triumph .
But he conies too late .
Thank Heaven for this blessed hour !
God save King George ! ''
`` That , madam , is a strange prayer to be offered up at such a moment , '' replied the unknown guest of the province-house , and , courteously removing his hat , he offered his arm to raise the aged woman .
`` Yet , in reverence for your gray hairs and long-kept faith , Heaven forbid that any here should say you nay .
Over the realms which still acknowledge his sceptre , God save King George ! ''
Esther Dudley started to her feet , and , hastily clutching back the key , gazed with fearful earnestness at the stranger , and dimly and doubtfully , as if suddenly awakened from a dream , her bewildered eyes half recognized his face .
Years ago she had known him among the gentry of the province , but the ban of the king had fallen upon him .
How , then , came the doomed victim here ?
Proscribed , excluded from mercy , the monarch 's most dreaded and hated foe , this New England merchant had stood triumphantly against a kingdom 's strength , and his foot now trod upon humbled royalty as he ascended the steps of the province-house , the people 's chosen governor of Massachusetts .
`` Wretch , wretch that I am ! ''
muttered the old woman , with such a heartbroken expression that the tears gushed from the stranger 's eyes .
`` Have I bidden a traitor welcome ?
-- Come , Death !
come quickly ! ''
`` Alas , venerable lady ! ''
said Governor Hancock , lending her his support with all the reverence that a courtier would have shown to a queen , `` your life has been prolonged until the world has changed around you .
You have treasured up all that time has rendered worthless -- the principles , feelings , manners , modes of being and acting which another generation has flung aside -- and you are a symbol of the past .
And I and these around me -- we represent a new race of men , living no longer in the past , scarcely in the present , but projecting our lives forward into the future .
Ceasing to model ourselves on ancestral superstitions , it is our faith and principle to press onward -- onward .
-- Yet , '' continued he , turning to his attendants , `` let us reverence for the last time the stately and gorgeous prejudices of the tottering past . ''
While the republican governor spoke he had continued to support the helpless form of Esther Dudley ; her weight grew heavier against his arm , but at last , with a sudden effort to free herself , the ancient woman sank down beside one of the pillars of the portal .
The key of the province-house fell from her grasp and clanked against the stone .
`` I have been faithful unto death , '' murmured she .
`` God save the king ! ''
`` She hath done her office , '' said Hancock , solemnly .
`` We will follow her reverently to the tomb of her ancestors , and then , my fellow-citizens , onward -- onward .
We are no longer children of the past . ''
As the old loyalist concluded his narrative the enthusiasm which had been fitfully flashing within his sunken eyes and quivering across his wrinkled visage faded away , as if all the lingering fire of his soul were extinguished .
Just then , too , a lamp upon the mantelpiece threw out a dying gleam , which vanished as speedily as it shot upward , compelling our eyes to grope for one another 's features by the dim glow of the hearth .
With such a lingering fire , methought , with such a dying gleam , had the glory of the ancient system vanished from the province-house when the spirit of old Esther Dudley took its flight .
And now , again , the clock of the Old South threw its voice of ages on the breeze , knolling the hourly knell of the past , crying out far and wide through the multitudinous city , and filling our ears , as we sat in the dusky chamber , with its reverberating depth of tone .
In that same mansion -- in that very chamber -- what a volume of history had been told off into hours by the same voice that was now trembling in the air !
Many a governor had heard those midnight accents and longed to exchange his stately cares for slumber .
And , as for mine host and Mr. Bela Tiffany and the old loyalist and me , we had babbled about dreams of the past until we almost fancied that the clock was still striking in a bygone century .
Neither of us would have wondered had a hoop-petticoated phantom of Esther Dudley tottered into the chamber , walking her rounds in the hush of midnight as of yore , and motioned us to quench the fading embers of the fire and leave the historic precincts to herself and her kindred shades .
But , as no such vision was vouchsafed , I retired unbidden , and would advise Mr. Tiffany to lay hold of another auditor , being resolved not to show my face in the Province House for a good while hence -- if ever .
THE HAUNTED MIND .
What a singular moment is the first one , when you have hardly begun to recollect yourself , after starting from midnight slumber !
By unclosing your eyes so suddenly you seem to have surprised the personages of your dream in full convocation round your bed , and catch one broad glance at them before they can flit into obscurity .
Or , to vary the metaphor , you find yourself for a single instant wide awake in that realm of illusions whither sleep has been the passport , and behold its ghostly inhabitants and wondrous scenery with a perception of their strangeness such as you never attain while the dream is undisturbed .
The distant sound of a church-clock is borne faintly on the wind .
You question with yourself , half seriously , whether it has stolen to your waking ear from some gray tower that stood within the precincts of your dream .
While yet in suspense another clock flings its heavy clang over the slumbering town with so full and distinct a sound , and such a long murmur in the neighboring air , that you are certain it must proceed from the steeple at the nearest corner ; You count the strokes -- one , two ; and there they cease with a booming sound like the gathering of a third stroke within the bell .
If you could choose an hour of wakefulness out of the whole night , it would be this .
Since your sober bedtime , at eleven , you have had rest enough to take off the pressure of yesterday 's fatigue , while before you , till the sun comes from `` Far Cathay '' to brighten your window , there is almost the space of a summer night -- one hour to be spent in thought with the mind 's eye half shut , and two in pleasant dreams , and two in that strangest of enjoyments the forgetfulness alike of joy and woe .
The moment of rising belongs to another period of time , and appears so distant that the plunge out of a warm bed into the frosty air can not yet be anticipated with dismay .
Yesterday has already vanished among the shadows of the past ; to-morrow has not yet emerged from the future .
You have found an intermediate space where the business of life does not intrude , where the passing moment lingers and becomes truly the present ; a spot where Father Time , when he thinks nobody is watching him , sits down by the wayside to take breath .
Oh that he would fall asleep and let mortals live on without growing older !
Hitherto you have lain perfectly still , because the slightest motion would dissipate the fragments of your slumber .
Now , being irrevocably awake , you peep through the half-drawn window-curtain , and observe that the glass is ornamented with fanciful devices in frost-work , and that each pane presents something like a frozen dream .
There will be time enough to trace out the analogy while waiting the summons to breakfast .
Seen through the clear portion of the glass where the silvery mountain-peaks of the frost-scenery do not ascend , the most conspicuous object is the steeple , the white spire of which directs you to the wintry lustre of the firmament .
You may almost distinguish the figures on the clock that has just told the hour .
Such a frosty sky and the snow-covered roofs and the long vista of the frozen street , all white , and the distant water hardened into rock , might make you shiver even under four blankets and a woollen comforter .
Yet look at that one glorious star !
Its beams are distinguishable from all the rest , and actually cast the shadow of the casement on the bed with a radiance of deeper hue than moonlight , though not so accurate an outline .
You sink down and muffle your head in the clothes , shivering all the while , but less from bodily chill than the bare idea of a polar atmosphere .
It is too cold even for the thoughts to venture abroad .
You speculate on the luxury of wearing out a whole existence in bed like an oyster in its shell , content with the sluggish ecstasy of inaction , and drowsily conscious of nothing but delicious warmth such as you now feel again .
Ah !
that idea has brought a hideous one in its train .
You think how the dead are lying in their cold shrouds and narrow coffins through the drear winter of the grave , and can not persuade your fancy that they neither shrink nor shiver when the snow is drifting over their little hillocks and the bitter blast howls against the door of the tomb .
That gloomy thought will collect a gloomy multitude and throw its complexion over your wakeful hour .
In the depths of every heart there is a tomb and a dungeon , though the lights , the music and revelry , above may cause us to forget their existence and the buried ones or prisoners whom they hide .
But sometimes , and oftenest at midnight , those dark receptacles are flung wide open .
In an hour like this , when the mind has a passive sensibility , but no active strength -- when the imagination is a mirror imparting vividness to all ideas without the power of selecting or controlling them -- then pray that your griefs may slumber and the brotherhood of remorse not break their chain .
It is too late .
A funeral train comes gliding by your bed in which passion and feeling assume bodily shape and things of the mind become dim spectres to the eye .
There is your earliest sorrow , a pale young mourner wearing a sister 's likeness to first love , sadly beautiful , with a hallowed sweetness in her melancholy features and grace in the flow of her sable robe .
Next appears a shade of ruined loveliness with dust among her golden hair and her bright garments all faded and defaced , stealing from your glance with drooping head , as fearful of reproach : she was your fondest hope , but a delusive one ; so call her Disappointment now .
A sterner form succeeds , with a brow of wrinkles , a look and gesture of iron authority ; there is no name for him unless it be Fatality -- an emblem of the evil influence that rules your fortunes , a demon to whom you subjected yourself by some error at the outset of life , and were bound his slave for ever by once obeying him .
See those fiendish lineaments graven on the darkness , the writhed lip of scorn , the mockery of that living eye , the pointed finger touching the sore place in your heart !
Do you remember any act of enormous folly at which you would blush even in the remotest cavern of the earth ?
Then recognize your shame .
Pass , wretched band !
Well for the wakeful one if , riotously miserable , a fiercer tribe do not surround him -- the devils of a guilty heart that holds its hell within itself .
What if Remorse should assume the features of an injured friend ?
What if the fiend should come in woman 's garments with a pale beauty amid sin and desolation , and lie down by your side ?
What if he should stand at your bed 's foot in the likeness of a corpse with a bloody stain upon the shroud ?
Sufficient without such guilt is this nightmare of the soul , this heavy , heavy sinking of the spirits , this wintry gloom about the heart , this indistinct horror of the mind blending itself with the darkness of the chamber .
By a desperate effort you start upright , breaking from a sort of conscious sleep and gazing wildly round the bed , as if the fiends were anywhere but in your haunted mind .
At the same moment the slumbering embers on the hearth send forth a gleam which palely illuminates the whole outer room and flickers through the door of the bedchamber , but can not quite dispel its obscurity .
Your eye searches for whatever may remind you of the living world .
With eager minuteness you take note of the table near the fireplace , the book with an ivory knife between its leaves , the unfolded letter , the hat and the fallen glove .
Soon the flame vanishes , and with it the whole scene is gone , though its image remains an instant in your mind 's eye when darkness has swallowed the reality .
Throughout the chamber there is the same obscurity as before , but not the same gloom within your breast .
As your head falls back upon the pillow you think -- in a whisper be it spoken -- how pleasant in these night solitudes would be the rise and fall of a softer breathing than your own , the slight pressure of a tenderer bosom , the quiet throb of a purer heart , imparting its peacefulness to your troubled one , as if the fond sleeper were involving you in her dream .
Her influence is over you , though she have no existence but in that momentary image .
You sink down in a flowery spot on the borders of sleep and wakefulness , while your thoughts rise before you in pictures , all disconnected , yet all assimilated by a pervading gladsomeness and beauty .
The wheeling of gorgeous squadrons that glitter in the sun is succeeded by the merriment of children round the door of a schoolhouse beneath the glimmering shadow of old trees at the corner of a rustic lane .
You stand in the sunny rain of a summer shower , and wander among the sunny trees of an autumnal wood , and look upward at the brightest of all rainbows overarching the unbroken sheet of snow on the American side of Niagara .
Your mind struggles pleasantly between the dancing radiance round the hearth of a young man and his recent bride and the twittering flight of birds in spring about their new-made nest .
You feel the merry bounding of a ship before the breeze , and watch the tuneful feet of rosy girls as they twine their last and merriest dance in a splendid ball-room , and find yourself in the brilliant circle of a crowded theatre as the curtain falls over a light and airy scene .
With an involuntary start you seize hold on consciousness , and prove yourself but half awake by running a doubtful parallel between human life and the hour which has now elapsed .
In both you emerge from mystery , pass through a vicissitude that you can but imperfectly control , and are borne onward to another mystery .
Now comes the peal of the distant clock with fainter and fainter strokes as you plunge farther into the wilderness of sleep .
It is the knell of a temporary death .
Your spirit has departed , and strays like a free citizen among the people of a shadowy world , beholding strange sights , yet without wonder or dismay .
So calm , perhaps , will be the final change -- so undisturbed , as if among familiar things , the entrance of the soul to its eternal home .
THE VILLAGE UNCLE .
AN IMAGINARY RETROSPECT .
Come !
another log upon the hearth .
True , our little parlor is comfortable , especially here where the old man sits in his old arm-chair ; but on Thanksgiving-night the blaze should dance higher up the chimney and send a shower of sparks into the outer darkness .
Toss on an armful of those dry oak chips , the last relicts of the Mermaid 's knee-timbers -- the bones of your namesake , Susan .
Higher yet , and clearer , be the blaze , till our cottage windows glow the ruddiest in the village and the light of our household mirth flash far across the bay to Nahant .
And now come , Susan ; come , my children .
Draw your chairs round me , all of you .
There is a dimness over your figures .
You sit quivering indistinctly with each motion of the blaze , which eddies about you like a flood ; so that you all have the look of visions or people that dwell only in the firelight , and will vanish from existence as completely as your own shadows when the flame shall sink among the embers .
Hark !
let me listen for the swell of the surf ; it should be audible a mile inland on a night like this .
Yes ; there I catch the sound , but only an uncertain murmur , as if a good way down over the beach , though by the almanac it is high tide at eight o'clock , and the billows must now be dashing within thirty yards of our door .
Ah !
the old man 's ears are failing him , and so is his eyesight , and perhaps his mind , else you would not all be so shadowy in the blaze of his Thanksgiving fire .
How strangely the past is peeping over the shoulders of the present !
To judge by my recollections , it is but a few moments since I sat in another room .
Yonder model of a vessel was not there , nor the old chest of drawers , nor Susan 's profile and mine in that gilt frame -- nothing , in short , except this same fire , which glimmered on books , papers and a picture , and half discovered my solitary figure in a looking-glass .
But it was paler than my rugged old self , and younger , too , by almost half a century .
Speak to me , Susan ; speak , my beloved ones ; for the scene is glimmering on my sight again , and as it brightens you fade away .
Oh , I should be loth to lose my treasure of past happiness and become once more what I was then -- a hermit in the depths of my own mind , sometimes yawning over drowsy volumes and anon a scribbler of wearier trash than what I read ; a man who had wandered out of the real world and got into its shadow , where his troubles , joys and vicissitudes were of such slight stuff that he hardly knew whether he lived or only dreamed of living .
Thank Heaven I am an old man now and have done with all such vanities !
Still this dimness of mine eyes !
-- Come nearer , Susan , and stand before the fullest blaze of the hearth .
Now I behold you illuminated from head to foot , in your clean cap and decent gown , with the dear lock of gray hair across your forehead and a quiet smile about your mouth , while the eyes alone are concealed by the red gleam of the fire upon your spectacles .
There !
you made me tremble again .
When the flame quivered , my sweet Susan , you quivered with it and grew indistinct , as if melting into the warm light , that my last glimpse of you might be as visionary as the first was , full many a year since .
Do you remember it ?
You stood on the little bridge over the brook that runs across King 's Beach into the sea .
It was twilight , the waves rolling in , the wind sweeping by , the crimson clouds fading in the west and the silver moon brightening above the hill ; and on the bridge were you , fluttering in the breeze like a sea-bird that might skim away at your pleasure .
You seemed a daughter of the viewless wind , a creature of the ocean-foam and the crimson light , whose merry life was spent in dancing on the crests of the billows that threw up their spray to support your footsteps .
As I drew nearer I fancied you akin to the race of mermaids , and thought how pleasant it would be to dwell with you among the quiet coves in the shadow of the cliffs , and to roam along secluded beaches of the purest sand , and , when our Northern shores grew bleak , to haunt the islands , green and lonely , far amid summer seas .
And yet it gladdened me , after all this nonsense , to find you nothing but a pretty young girl sadly perplexed with the rude behavior of the wind about your petticoats .
Thus I did with Susan as with most other things in my earlier days , dipping her image into my mind and coloring it of a thousand fantastic hues before I could see her as she really was .
Now , Susan , for a sober picture of our village .
It was a small collection of dwellings that seemed to have been cast up by the sea with the rock-weed and marine plants that it vomits after a storm , or to have come ashore among the pipe-staves and other lumber which had been washed from the deck of an Eastern schooner .
There was just space for the narrow and sandy street between the beach in front and a precipitous hill that lifted its rocky forehead in the rear among a waste of juniper-bushes and the wild growth of a broken pasture .
The village was picturesque in the variety of its edifices , though all were rude .
Here stood a little old hovel , built , perhaps , of driftwood , there a row of boat-houses , and beyond them a two-story dwelling of dark and weatherbeaten aspect , the whole intermixed with one or two snug cottages painted white , a sufficiency of pig-styes and a shoemaker 's shop .
Two grocery stores stood opposite each other in the centre of the village .
These were the places of resort at their idle hours of a hardy throng of fishermen in red baize shirts , oilcloth trousers and boots of brown leather covering the whole leg -- true seven-league boots , but fitter to wade the ocean than walk the earth .
The wearers seemed amphibious , as if they did but creep out of salt water to sun themselves ; nor would it have been wonderful to see their lower limbs covered with clusters of little shellfish such as cling to rocks and old ship-timber over which the tide ebbs and flows .
When their fleet of boats was weather-bound , the butchers raised their price , and the spit was busier than the frying-pan ; for this was a place of fish , and known as such to all the country round about .
The very air was fishy , being perfumed with dead sculpins , hard-heads and dogfish strewn plentifully on the beach .
-- You see , children , the village is but little changed since your mother and I were young .
How like a dream it was when I bent over a pool of water one pleasant morning and saw that the ocean had dashed its spray over me and made me a fisherman !
There was the tarpaulin , the baize shirt , the oilcloth trousers and seven-league boots , and there my own features , but so reddened with sunburn and sea-breezes that methought I had another face , and on other shoulders too .
The seagulls and the loons and I had now all one trade : we skimmed the crested waves and sought our prey beneath them , the man with as keen enjoyment as the birds .
Always when the east grew purple I launched my dory , my little flat-bottomed skiff , and rowed cross-handed to Point Ledge , the Middle Ledge , or perhaps beyond Egg Rock ; often , too , did I anchor off Dread Ledge -- a spot of peril to ships unpiloted -- and sometimes spread an adventurous sail and tracked across the bay to South Shore , casting my lines in sight of Scituate .
Ere nightfall I hauled my skiff high and dry on the beach , laden with red rock-cod or the white-bellied ones of deep water , haddock bearing the black marks of St. Peter 's fingers near the gills , the long-bearded hake whose liver holds oil enough for a midnight lamp , and now and then a mighty halibut with a back broad as my boat .
In the autumn I toled and caught those lovely fish the mackerel .
When the wind was high , when the whale-boats anchored off the Point nodded their slender masts at each other and the dories pitched and tossed in the surf , when Nahant Beach was thundering three miles off and the spray broke a hundred feet in the air round the distant base of Egg Rock , when the brimful and boisterous sea threatened to tumble over the street of our village , -- then I made a holiday on shore .
Many such a day did I sit snugly in Mr. Bartlett 's store , attentive to the yarns of Uncle Parker -- uncle to the whole village by right of seniority , but of Southern blood , with no kindred in New England .
His figure is before me now enthroned upon a mackerel-barrel -- a lean old man of great height , but bent with years and twisted into an uncouth shape by seven broken limbs ; furrowed , also , and weatherworn , as if every gale for the better part of a century had caught him somewhere on the sea .
He looked like a harbinger of tempest -- a shipmate of the Flying Dutchman .
After innumerable voyages aboard men-of-war and merchantmen , fishing-schooners and chebacco-boats , the old salt had become master of a hand-cart , which he daily trundled about the vicinity , and sometimes blew his fish-horn through the streets of Salem .
One of Uncle Parker 's eyes had been blown out with gunpowder , and the other did but glimmer in its socket .
Turning it upward as he spoke , it was his delight to tell of cruises against the French and battles with his own shipmates , when he and an antagonist used to be seated astride of a sailor 's chest , each fastened down by a spike-nail through his trousers , and there to fight it out .
Sometimes he expatiated on the delicious flavor of the hagden , a greasy and goose-like fowl which the sailors catch with hook and line on the Grand Banks .
He dwelt with rapture on an interminable winter at the Isle of Sables , where he had gladdened himself amid polar snows with the rum and sugar saved from the wreck of a West India schooner .
And wrathfully did he shake his fist as he related how a party of Cape Cod men had robbed him and his companions of their lawful spoils and sailed away with every keg of old Jamaica , leaving him not a drop to drown his sorrow .
Villains they were , and of that wicked brotherhood who are said to tie lanterns to horses ' tails to mislead the mariner along the dangerous shores of the Cape .
Even now I seem to see the group of fishermen with that old salt in the midst .
One fellow sits on the counter , a second bestrides an oil-barrel , a third lolls at his length on a parcel of new cod-lines , and another has planted the tarry seat of his trousers on a heap of salt which will shortly be sprinkled over a lot of fish .
They are a likely set of men .
Some have voyaged to the East Indies or the Pacific , and most of them have sailed in Marblehead schooners to Newfoundland ; a few have been no farther than the Middle Banks , and one or two have always fished along the shore ; but , as Uncle Parker used to say , they have all been christened in salt water and know more than men ever learn in the bushes .
A curious figure , by way of contrast , is a fish-dealer from far up-country listening with eyes wide open to narratives that might startle Sinbad the Sailor .
-- Be it well with you , my brethren !
Ye are all gone -- some to your graves ashore and others to the depths of ocean -- but my faith is strong that ye are happy ; for whenever I behold your forms , whether in dream or vision , each departed friend is puffing his long nine , and a mug of the right blackstrap goes round from lip to lip .
But where was the mermaid in those delightful times ?
At a certain window near the centre of the village appeared a pretty display of gingerbread men and horses , picture-books and ballads , small fish-hooks , pins , needles , sugarplums and brass thimbles -- articles on which the young fishermen used to expend their money from pure gallantry .
What a picture was Susan behind the counter !
A slender maiden , though the child of rugged parents , she had the slimmest of all waists , brown hair curling on her neck , and a complexion rather pale except when the sea-breeze flushed it .
A few freckles became beauty-spots beneath her eyelids .
-- How was it , Susan , that you talked and acted so carelessly , yet always for the best , doing whatever was right in your own eyes , and never once doing wrong in mine , nor shocked a taste that had been morbidly sensitive till now ?
And whence had you that happiest gift of brightening every topic with an unsought gayety , quiet but irresistible , so that even gloomy spirits felt your sunshine and did not shrink from it ?
Nature wrought the charm .
She made you a frank , simple , kind-hearted , sensible and mirthful girl .
Obeying Nature , you did free things without indelicacy , displayed a maiden 's thoughts to every eye , and proved yourself as innocent as naked Eve .
-- It was beautiful to observe how her simple and happy nature mingled itself with mine .
She kindled a domestic fire within my heart and took up her dwelling there , even in that chill and lonesome cavern hung round with glittering icicles of fancy .
She gave me warmth of feeling , while the influence of my mind made her contemplative .
I taught her to love the moonlight hour , when the expanse of the encircled bay was smooth as a great mirror and slept in a transparent shadow , while beyond Nahant the wind rippled the dim ocean into a dreamy brightness which grew faint afar off without becoming gloomier .
I held her hand and pointed to the long surf-wave as it rolled calmly on the beach in an unbroken line of silver ; we were silent together till its deep and peaceful murmur had swept by us .
When the Sabbath sun shone down into the recesses of the cliffs , I led the mermaid thither and told her that those huge gray , shattered rocks , and her native sea that raged for ever like a storm against them , and her own slender beauty in so stern a scene , were all combined into a strain of poetry .
But on the Sabbath-eve , when her mother had gone early to bed and her gentle sister had smiled and left us , as we sat alone by the quiet hearth with household things around , it was her turn to make me feel that here was a deeper poetry , and that this was the dearest hour of all .
Thus went on our wooing , till I had shot wild-fowl enough to feather our bridal-bed , and the daughter of the sea was mine .
I built a cottage for Susan and myself , and made a gateway in the form of a Gothic arch by setting up a whale 's jaw-bones .
We bought a heifer with her first calf , and had a little garden on the hillside to supply us with potatoes and green sauce for our fish .
Our parlor , small and neat , was ornamented with our two profiles in one gilt frame , and with shells and pretty pebbles on the mantelpiece , selected from the sea 's treasury of such things on Nahant Beach .
On the desk , beneath the looking-glass , lay the Bible , which I had begun to read aloud at the book of Genesis , and the singing-book that Susan used for her evening psalm .
Except the almanac , we had no other literature .
All that I heard of books was when an Indian history or tale of shipwreck was sold by a pedler or wandering subscription-man to some one in the village , and read through its owner 's nose to a slumbrous auditory .
Like my brother-fishermen , I grew into the belief that all human erudition was collected in our pedagogue , whose green spectacles and solemn phiz as he passed to his little schoolhouse amid a waste of sand might have gained him a diploma from any college in New England .
In truth , I dreaded him .
-- When our children were old enough to claim his care , you remember , Susan , how I frowned , though you were pleased at this learned man 's encomiums on their proficiency .
I feared to trust them even with the alphabet : it was the key to a fatal treasure .
But I loved to lead them by their little hands along the beach and point to nature in the vast and the minute -- the sky , the sea , the green earth , the pebbles and the shells .
Then did I discourse of the mighty works and coextensive goodness of the Deity with the simple wisdom of a man whose mind had profited by lonely days upon the deep and his heart by the strong and pure affections of his evening home .
Sometimes my voice lost itself in a tremulous depth , for I felt his eye upon me as I spoke .
Once , while my wife and all of us were gazing at ourselves in the mirror left by the tide in a hollow of the sand , I pointed to the pictured heaven below and bade her observe how religion was strewn everywhere in our path , since even a casual pool of water recalled the idea of that home whither we were travelling to rest for ever with our children .
Suddenly your image , Susan , and all the little faces made up of yours and mine , seemed to fade away and vanish around me , leaving a pale visage like my own of former days within the frame of a large looking-glass .
Strange illusion !
My life glided on , the past appearing to mingle with the present and absorb the future , till the whole lies before me at a glance .
My manhood has long been waning with a stanch decay ; my earlier contemporaries , after lives of unbroken health , are all at rest without having known the weariness of later age ; and now with a wrinkled forehead and thin white hair as badges of my dignity I have become the patriarch -- the uncle -- of the village .
I love that name : it widens the circle of my sympathies ; it joins all the youthful to my household in the kindred of affection .
Like Uncle Parker , whose rheumatic bones were dashed against Egg Rock full forty years ago , I am a spinner of long yarns .
Seated on the gunnel of a dory or on the sunny side of a boat-house , where the warmth is grateful to my limbs , or by my own hearth when a friend or two are there , I overflow with talk , and yet am never tedious .
With a broken voice I give utterance to much wisdom .
Such , Heaven be praised !
is the vigor of my faculties that many a forgotten usage , and traditions ancient in my youth , and early adventures of myself or others hitherto effaced by things more recent , acquire new distinctness in my memory .
I remember the happy days when the haddock were more numerous on all the fishing-grounds than sculpins in the surf -- when the deep-water cod swam close in-shore , and the dogfish , with his poisonous horn , had not learnt to take the hook .
I can number every equinoctial storm in which the sea has overwhelmed the street , flooded the cellars of the village and hissed upon our kitchen hearth .
I give the history of the great whale that was landed on Whale Beach , and whose jaws , being now my gateway , will last for ages after my coffin shall have passed beneath them .
Thence it is an easy digression to the halibut -- scarcely smaller than the whale -- which ran out six codlines and hauled my dory to the mouth of Boston harbor before I could touch him with the gaff .
If melancholy accidents be the theme of conversation , I tell how a friend of mine was taken out of his boat by an enormous shark , and the sad , true tale of a young man on the eve of marriage who had been nine days missing , when his drowned body floated into the very pathway on Marble-head Neck that had often led him to the dwelling of his bride , as if the dripping corpse would have come where the mourner was .
With such awful fidelity did that lover return to fulfil his vows !
Another favorite story is of a crazy maiden who conversed with angels and had the gift of prophecy , and whom all the village loved and pitied , though she went from door to door accusing us of sin , exhorting to repentance and foretelling our destruction by flood or earthquake .
If the young men boast their knowledge of the ledges and sunken rocks , I speak of pilots who knew the wind by its scent and the wave by its taste , and could have steered blindfold to any port between Boston and Mount Desert guided only by the rote of the shore -- the peculiar sound of the surf on each island , beach and line of rocks along the coast .
Thus do I talk , and all my auditors grow wise while they deem it pastime .
I recollect no happier portion of my life than this my calm old age .
It is like the sunny and sheltered slope of a valley where late in the autumn the grass is greener than in August , and intermixed with golden dandelions that had not been seen till now since the first warmth of the year .
But with me the verdure and the flowers are not frost-bitten in the midst of winter .
A playfulness has revisited my mind -- a sympathy with the young and gay , an unpainful interest in the business of others , a light and wandering curiosity -- arising , perhaps , from the sense that my toil on earth is ended and the brief hour till bedtime may be spent in play .
Still , I have fancied that there is a depth of feeling and reflection under this superficial levity peculiar to one who has lived long and is soon to die .
Show me anything that would make an infant smile , and you shall behold a gleam of mirth over the hoary ruin of my visage .
I can spend a pleasant hour in the sun watching the sports of the village children on the edge of the surf .
Now they chase the retreating wave far down over the wet sand ; now it steals softly up to kiss their naked feet ; now it comes onward with threatening front , and roars after the laughing crew as they scamper beyond its reach .
Why should not an old man be merry too , when the great sea is at play with those little children ?
I delight , also , to follow in the wake of a pleasure-party of young men and girls strolling along the beach after an early supper at the Point .
Here , with handkerchiefs at nose , they bend over a heap of eel-grass entangled in which is a dead skate so oddly accoutred with two legs and a long tail that they mistake him for a drowned animal .
A few steps farther the ladies scream , and the gentlemen make ready to protect them against a young shark of the dogfish kind rolling with a lifelike motion in the tide that has thrown him up .
Next they are smit with wonder at the black shells of a wagon-load of live lobsters packed in rock-weed for the country-market .
And when they reach the fleet of dories just hauled ashore after the day 's fishing , how do I laugh in my sleeve , and sometimes roar outright , at the simplicity of these young folks and the sly humor of the fishermen !
In winter , when our village is thrown into a bustle by the arrival of perhaps a score of country dealers bargaining for frozen fish to be transported hundreds of miles and eaten fresh in Vermont or Canada , I am a pleased but idle spectator in the throng .
For I launch my boat no more .
When the shore was solitary , I have found a pleasure that seemed even to exalt my mind in observing the sports or contentions of two gulls as they wheeled and hovered about each other with hoarse screams , one moment flapping on the foam of the wave , and then soaring aloft till their white bosoms melted into the upper sunshine .
In the calm of the summer sunset I drag my aged limbs with a little ostentation of activity , because I am so old , up to the rocky brow of the hill .
There I see the white sails of many a vessel outward bound or homeward from afar , and the black trail of a vapor behind the Eastern steamboat ; there , too , is the sun , going down , but not in gloom , and there the illimitable ocean mingling with the sky , to remind me of eternity .
But sweetest of all is the hour of cheerful musing and pleasant talk that comes between the dusk and the lighted candle by my glowing fireside .
And never , even on the first Thanksgiving-night , when Susan and I sat alone with our hopes , nor the second , when a stranger had been sent to gladden us and be the visible image of our affection , did I feel such joy as now .
All that belongs to me are here : Death has taken none , nor Disease kept them away , nor Strife divided them from their parents or each other ; with neither poverty nor riches to disturb them , nor the misery of desires beyond their lot , they have kept New England 's festival round the patriarch 's board .
For I am a patriarch .
Here I sit among my descendants , in my old arm-chair and immemorial corner , while the firelight throws an appropriate glory round my venerable frame .
-- Susan !
My children !
Something whispers me that this happiest hour must be the final one , and that nothing remains but to bless you all and depart with a treasure of recollected joys to heaven .
Will you meet me there ?
Alas !
your figures grow indistinct , fading into pictures on the air , and now to fainter outlines , while the fire is glimmering on the walls of a familiar room , and shows the book that I flung down and the sheet that I left half written some fifty years ago .
I lift my eyes to the looking-glass , and perceive myself alone , unless those be the mermaid 's features retiring into the depths of the mirror with a tender and melancholy smile .
Ah !
One feels a chilliness -- not bodily , but about the heart -- and , moreover , a foolish dread of looking behind him , after these pastimes .
I can imagine precisely how a magician would sit down in gloom and terror after dismissing the shadows that had personated dead or distant people and stripping his cavern of the unreal splendor which had changed it to a palace .
And now for a moral to my reverie .
Shall it be that , since fancy can create so bright a dream of happiness , it were better to dream on from youth to age than to awake and strive doubtfully for something real ?
Oh , the slight tissue of a dream can no more preserve us from the stern reality of misfortune than a robe of cobweb could repel the wintry blast .
Be this the moral , then : In chaste and warm affections , humble wishes and honest toil for some useful end there is health for the mind and quiet for the heart , the prospect of a happy life and the fairest hope of heaven .
THE AMBITIOUS GUEST .
One September night a family had gathered round their hearth and piled it high with the driftwood of mountain-streams , the dry cones of the pine , and the splintered ruins of great trees that had come crashing down the precipice .
Up the chimney roared the fire , and brightened the room with its broad blaze .
The faces of the father and mother had a sober gladness ; the children laughed .
The eldest daughter was the image of Happiness at seventeen , and the aged grandmother , who sat knitting in the warmest place , was the image of Happiness grown old .
They had found the `` herb heart 's - ease '' in the bleakest spot of all New England .
This family were situated in the Notch of the White Hills , where the wind was sharp throughout the year and pitilessly cold in the winter , giving their cottage all its fresh inclemency before it descended on the valley of the Saco .
They dwelt in a cold spot and a dangerous one , for a mountain towered above their heads so steep that the stones would often rumble down its sides and startle them at midnight .
The daughter had just uttered some simple jest that filled them all with mirth , when the wind came through the Notch and seemed to pause before their cottage , rattling the door with a sound of wailing and lamentation before it passed into the valley .
For a moment it saddened them , though there was nothing unusual in the tones .
But the family were glad again when they perceived that the latch was lifted by some traveller whose footsteps had been unheard amid the dreary blast which heralded his approach and wailed as he was entering and went moaning away from the door .
Though they dwelt in such a solitude , these people held daily converse with the world .
The romantic pass of the Notch is a great artery through which the life-blood of internal commerce is continually throbbing between Maine on one side and the Green Mountains and the shores of the St. Lawrence on the other .
The stage-coach always drew up before the door of the cottage .
The wayfarer with no companion but his staff paused here to exchange a word , that the sense of loneliness might not utterly overcome him ere he could pass through the cleft of the mountain or reach the first house in the valley .
And here the teamster on his way to Portland market would put up for the night , and , if a bachelor , might sit an hour beyond the usual bedtime and steal a kiss from the mountain-maid at parting .
It was one of those primitive taverns where the traveller pays only for food and lodging , but meets with a homely kindness beyond all price .
When the footsteps were heard , therefore , between the outer door and the inner one , the whole family rose up , grandmother , children and all , as if about to welcome some one who belonged to them , and whose fate was linked with theirs .
The door was opened by a young man .
His face at first wore the melancholy expression , almost despondency , of one who travels a wild and bleak road at nightfall and alone , but soon brightened up when he saw the kindly warmth of his reception .
He felt his heart spring forward to meet them all , from the old woman who wiped a chair with her apron to the little child that held out its arms to him .
One glance and smile placed the stranger on a footing of innocent familiarity with the eldest daughter .
`` Ah !
this fire is the right thing , '' cried he , `` especially when there is such a pleasant circle round it .
I am quite benumbed , for the Notch is just like the pipe of a great pair of bellows ; it has blown a terrible blast in my face all the way from Bartlett . ''
`` Then you are going toward Vermont ? ''
said the master of the house as he helped to take a light knapsack off the young man 's shoulders .
`` Yes , to Burlington , and far enough beyond , '' replied he .
`` I meant to have been at Ethan Crawford 's to-night , but a pedestrian lingers along such a road as this .
It is no matter ; for when I saw this good fire and all your cheerful faces , I felt as if you had kindled it on purpose for me and were waiting my arrival .
So I shall sit down among you and make myself at home . ''
The frank-hearted stranger had just drawn his chair to the fire when something like a heavy footstep was heard without , rushing down the steep side of the mountain as with long and rapid strides , and taking such a leap in passing the cottage as to strike the opposite precipice .
The family held their breath , because they knew the sound , and their guest held his by instinct .
`` The old mountain has thrown a stone at us for fear we should forget him , '' said the landlord , recovering himself .
`` He sometimes nods his head and threatens to come down , but we are old neighbors , and agree together pretty well , upon the whole .
Besides , we have a sure place of refuge hard by if he should be coming in good earnest . ''
Let us now suppose the stranger to have finished his supper of bear 's meat , and by his natural felicity of manner to have placed himself on a footing of kindness with the whole family ; so that they talked as freely together as if he belonged to their mountain-brood .
He was of a proud yet gentle spirit , haughty and reserved among the rich and great , but ever ready to stoop his head to the lowly cottage door and be like a brother or a son at the poor man 's fireside .
In the household of the Notch he found warmth and simplicity of feeling , the pervading intelligence of New England , and a poetry of native growth which they had gathered when they little thought of it from the mountain-peaks and chasms , and at the very threshold of their romantic and dangerous abode .
He had travelled far and alone ; his whole life , indeed , had been a solitary path , for , with the lofty caution of his nature , he had kept himself apart from those who might otherwise have been his companions .
The family , too , though so kind and hospitable , had that consciousness of unity among themselves and separation from the world at large which in every domestic circle should still keep a holy place where no stranger may intrude .
But this evening a prophetic sympathy impelled the refined and educated youth to pour out his heart before the simple mountaineers , and constrained them to answer him with the same free confidence .
And thus it should have been .
Is not the kindred of a common fate a closer tie than that of birth ?
The secret of the young man 's character was a high and abstracted ambition .
He could have borne to live an undistinguished life , but not to be forgotten in the grave .
Yearning desire had been transformed to hope , and hope , long cherished , had become like certainty that , obscurely as he journeyed now , a glory was to beam on all his pathway , though not , perhaps , while he was treading it .
But when posterity should gaze back into the gloom of what was now the present , they would trace the brightness of his footsteps , brightening as meaner glories faded , and confess that a gifted one had passed from his cradle to his tomb with none to recognize him .
`` As yet , '' cried the stranger , his cheek glowing and his eye flashing with enthusiasm -- `` as yet I have done nothing .
Were I to vanish from the earth to-morrow , none would know so much of me as you -- that a nameless youth came up at nightfall from the valley of the Saco , and opened his heart to you in the evening , and passed through the Notch by sunrise , and was seen no more .
Not a soul would ask , ` Who was he ?
Whither did the wanderer go ? '
But I can not die till I have achieved my destiny .
Then let Death come : I shall have built my monument . ''
There was a continual flow of natural emotion gushing forth amid abstracted reverie which enabled the family to understand this young man 's sentiments , though so foreign from their own .
With quick sensibility of the ludicrous , he blushed at the ardor into which he had been betrayed .
`` You laugh at me , '' said he , taking the eldest daughter 's hand and laughing himself .
`` You think my ambition as nonsensical as if I were to freeze myself to death on the top of Mount Washington only that people might spy at me from the country roundabout .
And truly that would be a noble pedestal for a man 's statue . ''
`` It is better to sit here by this fire , '' answered the girl , blushing , `` and be comfortable and contented , though nobody thinks about us . ''
`` I suppose , '' said her father , after a fit of musing , `` there is something natural in what the young man says ; and if my mind had been turned that way , I might have felt just the same .
-- It is strange , wife , how his talk has set my head running on things that are pretty certain never to come to pass . ''
`` Perhaps they may , '' observed the wife .
`` Is the man thinking what he will do when he is a widower ? ''
`` No , no ! ''
cried he , repelling the idea with reproachful kindness .
`` When I think of your death , Esther , I think of mine too .
But I was wishing we had a good farm in Bartlett or Bethlehem or Littleton , or some other township round the White Mountains , but not where they could tumble on our heads .
I should want to stand well with my neighbors and be called squire and sent to General Court for a term or two ; for a plain , honest man may do as much good there as a lawyer .
And when I should be grown quite an old man , and you an old woman , so as not to be long apart , I might die happy enough in my bed , and leave you all crying around me .
A slate gravestone would suit me as well as a marble one , with just my name and age , and a verse of a hymn , and something to let people know that I lived an honest man and died a Christian . ''
`` There , now ! ''
exclaimed the stranger ; `` it is our nature to desire a monument , be it slate or marble , or a pillar of granite , or a glorious memory in the universal heart of man . ''
`` We 're in a strange way to-night , '' said the wife , with tears in her eyes .
`` They say it 's a sign of something when folks ' minds go a-wandering so .
Hark to the children ! ''
They listened accordingly .
The younger children had been put to bed in another room , but with an open door between ; so that they could be heard talking busily among themselves .
One and all seemed to have caught the infection from the fireside circle , and were outvying each other in wild wishes and childish projects of what they would do when they came to be men and women .
At length a little boy , instead of addressing his brothers and sisters , called out to his mother .
`` I 'll tell you what I wish , mother , '' cried he : `` I want you and father and grandma 'm , and all of us , and the stranger too , to start right away and go and take a drink out of the basin of the Flume . ''
Nobody could help laughing at the child 's notion of leaving a warm bed and dragging them from a cheerful fire to visit the basin of the Flume -- a brook which tumbles over the precipice deep within the Notch .
The boy had hardly spoken , when a wagon rattled along the road and stopped a moment before the door .
It appeared to contain two or three men who were cheering their hearts with the rough chorus of a song which resounded in broken notes between the cliffs , while the singers hesitated whether to continue their journey or put up here for the night .
`` Father , '' said the girl , `` they are calling you by name . ''
But the good man doubted whether they had really called him , and was unwilling to show himself too solicitous of gain by inviting people to patronize his house .
He therefore did not hurry to the door , and , the lash being soon applied , the travellers plunged into the Notch , still singing and laughing , though their music and mirth came back drearily from the heart of the mountain .
`` There , mother ! ''
cried the boy , again ; `` they 'd have given us a ride to the Flume . ''
Again they laughed at the child 's pertinacious fancy for a night-ramble .
But it happened that a light cloud passed over the daughter 's spirit ; she looked gravely into the fire and drew a breath that was almost a sigh .
It forced its way , in spite of a little struggle to repress it .
Then , starting and blushing , she looked quickly around the circle , as if they had caught a glimpse into her bosom .
The stranger asked what she had been thinking of .
`` Nothing , '' answered she , with a downcast smile ; `` only I felt lonesome just then . ''
`` Oh , I have always had a gift of feeling what is in other people 's hearts , '' said he , half seriously .
`` Shall I tell the secrets of yours ?
For I know what to think when a young girl shivers by a warm hearth and complains of lonesomeness at her mother 's side .
Shall I put these feelings into words ? ''
`` They would not be a girl 's feelings any longer if they could be put into words , '' replied the mountain-nymph , laughing , but avoiding his eye .
All this was said apart .
Perhaps a germ of love was springing in their hearts so pure that it might blossom in Paradise , since it could not be matured on earth ; for women worship such gentle dignity as his , and the proud , contemplative , yet kindly , soul is oftenest captivated by simplicity like hers .
But while they spoke softly , and he was watching the happy sadness , the lightsome shadows , the shy yearnings , of a maiden 's nature , the wind through the Notch took a deeper and drearier sound .
It seemed , as the fanciful stranger said , like the choral strain of the spirits of the blast who in old Indian times had their dwelling among these mountains and made their heights and recesses a sacred region .
There was a wail along the road as if a funeral were passing .
To chase away the gloom , the family threw pine-branches on their fire till the dry leaves crackled and the flame arose , discovering once again a scene of peace and humble happiness .
The light hovered about them fondly and caressed them all .
There were the little faces of the children peeping from their bed apart , and here the father 's frame of strength , the mother 's subdued and careful mien , the high-browed youth , the budding girl and the good old grandam , still knitting in the warmest place .
The aged woman looked up from her task , and with fingers ever busy was the next to speak .
`` Old folks have their notions , '' said she , `` as well as young ones .
You 've been wishing and planning and letting your heads run on one thing and another till you 've set my mind a-wandering too .
Now , what should an old woman wish for , when she can go but a step or two before she comes to her grave ?
Children , it will haunt me night and day till I tell you . ''
`` What is it , mother ? ''
cried the husband and wife at once .
Then the old woman , with an air of mystery which drew the circle closer round the fire , informed them that she had provided her grave-clothes some years before -- a nice linen shroud , a cap with a muslin ruff , and everything of a finer sort than she had worn since her wedding-day .
But this evening an old superstition had strangely recurred to her .
It used to be said in her younger days that if anything were amiss with a corpse -- if only the ruff were not smooth or the cap did not set right -- the corpse , in the coffin and beneath the clods , would strive to put up its cold hands and arrange it .
The bare thought made her nervous .
`` Do n't talk so , grandmother , '' said the girl , shuddering .
`` Now , '' continued the old woman , with singular earnestness , yet smiling strangely at her own folly , `` I want one of you , my children , when your mother is dressed and in the coffin , -- I want one of you to hold a looking-glass over my face .
Who knows but I may take a glimpse at myself and see whether all 's right ? ''
`` Old and young , we dream of graves and monuments , '' murmured the stranger-youth .
`` I wonder how mariners feel when the ship is sinking and they , unknown and undistinguished , are to be buried together in the ocean , that wide and nameless sepulchre ? ''
For a moment the old woman 's ghastly conception so engrossed the minds of her hearers that a sound abroad in the night , rising like the roar of a blast , had grown broad , deep and terrible before the fated group were conscious of it .
The house and all within it trembled ; the foundations of the earth seemed to be shaken , as if this awful sound were the peal of the last trump .
Young and old exchanged one wild glance and remained an instant pale , affrighted , without utterance or power to move .
Then the same shriek burst simultaneously from all their lips : `` The slide !
The slide ! ''
The simplest words must intimate , but not portray , the unutterable horror of the catastrophe .
The victims rushed from their cottage and sought refuge in what they deemed a safer spot , where , in contemplation of such an emergency , a sort of barrier had been reared .
Alas !
they had quitted their security and fled right into the pathway of destruction .
Down came the whole side of the mountain in a cataract of ruin .
Just before it reached the house the stream broke into two branches , shivered not a window there , but overwhelmed the whole vicinity , blocked up the road and annihilated everything in its dreadful course .
Long ere the thunder of that great slide had ceased to roar among the mountains the mortal agony had been endured and the victims were at peace .
Their bodies were never found .
The next morning the light smoke was seen stealing from the cottage chimney up the mountain-side .
Within , the fire was yet smouldering on the hearth , and the chairs in a circle round it , as if the inhabitants had but gone forth to view the devastation of the slide and would shortly return to thank Heaven for their miraculous escape .
All had left separate tokens by which those who had known the family were made to shed a tear for each .
Who has not heard their name ?
The story has been told far and wide , and will for ever be a legend of these mountains .
Poets have sung their fate .
There were circumstances which led some to suppose that a stranger had been received into the cottage on this awful night , and had shared the catastrophe of all its inmates ; others denied that there were sufficient grounds for such a conjecture .
Woe for the high-souled youth with his dream of earthly immortality !
His name and person utterly unknown , his history , his way of life , his plans , a mystery never to be solved , his death and his existence equally a doubt , -- whose was the agony of that death-moment ?
THE SISTER-YEARS .
Last night , between eleven and twelve o'clock , when the Old Year was leaving her final footprints on the borders of Time 's empire , she found herself in possession of a few spare moments , and sat down -- of all places in the world -- on the steps of our new city-hall .
The wintry moonlight showed that she looked weary of body and sad of heart , like many another wayfarer of earth .
Her garments , having been exposed to much foul weather and rough usage , were in very ill condition , and , as the hurry of her journey had never before allowed her to take an instant 's rest , her shoes were so worn as to be scarcely worth the mending .
But after trudging only a little distance farther this poor Old Year was destined to enjoy a long , long sleep .
I forgot to mention that when she seated herself on the steps she deposited by her side a very capacious bandbox in which , as is the custom among travellers of her sex , she carried a great deal of valuable property .
Besides this luggage , there was a folio book under her arm very much resembling the annual volume of a newspaper .
Placing this volume across her knees and resting her elbows upon it , with her forehead in her hands , the weary , bedraggled , world-worn Old Year heaved a heavy sigh and appeared to be taking no very pleasant retrospect of her past existence .
While she thus awaited the midnight knell that was to summon her to the innumerable sisterhood of departed years , there came a young maiden treading lightsomely on tip-toe along the street from the direction of the railroad dpt .
She was evidently a stranger , and perhaps had come to town by the evening train of cars .
There was a smiling cheerfulness in this fair maiden 's face which bespoke her fully confident of a kind reception from the multitude of people with whom she was soon to form acquaintance .
Her dress was rather too airy for the season , and was bedizened with fluttering ribbons and other vanities which were likely soon to be rent away by the fierce storms or to fade in the hot sunshine amid which she was to pursue her changeful course .
But still she was a wonderfully pleasant-looking figure , and had so much promise and such an indescribable hopefulness in her aspect that hardly anybody could meet her without anticipating some very desirable thing -- the consummation of some long-sought good -- from her kind offices .
A few dismal characters there may be here and there about the world who have so often been trifled with by young maidens as promising as she that they have now ceased to pin any faith upon the skirts of the New Year .
But , for my own part , I have great faith in her , and , should I live to see fifty more such , still from each of those successive sisters I shall reckon upon receiving something that will be worth living for .
The New Year -- for this young maiden was no less a personage -- carried all her goods and chattels in a basket of no great size or weight , which hung upon her arm .
She greeted the disconsolate Old Year with great affection , and sat down beside her on the steps of the city-hall , waiting for the signal to begin her rambles through the world .
The two were own sisters , being both granddaughters of Time , and , though one looked so much older than the other , it was rather owing to hardships and trouble than to age , since there was but a twelvemonth 's difference between them .
`` Well , my dear sister , '' said the New Year , after the first salutations , `` you look almost tired to death .
What have you been about during your sojourn in this part of infinite space ? ''
`` Oh , I have it all recorded here in my book of chronicles , '' answered the Old Year , in a heavy tone .
`` There is nothing that would amuse you , and you will soon get sufficient knowledge of such matters from your own personal experience .
It is but tiresome reading . ''
Nevertheless , she turned over the leaves of the folio and glanced at them by the light of the moon , feeling an irresistible spell of interest in her own biography , although its incidents were remembered without pleasure .
The volume , though she termed it her book of chronicles , seemed to be neither more nor less than the Salem Gazette for 1838 ; in the accuracy of which journal this sagacious Old Year had so much confidence that she deemed it needless to record her history with her own pen .
`` What have you been doing in the political way ? ''
asked the New Year .
`` Why , my course here in the United States , '' said the Old Year -- `` though perhaps I ought to blush at the confession -- my political course , I must acknowledge , has been rather vacillatory , sometimes inclining toward the Whigs , then causing the administration party to shout for triumph , and now again uplifting what seemed the almost prostrate banner of the opposition ; so that historians will hardly know what to make of me in this respect .
But the Loco-Focos -- '' `` I do not like these party nicknames , '' interrupted her sister , who seemed remarkably touchy about some points .
`` Perhaps we shall part in better humor if we avoid any political discussion . ''
`` With all my heart , '' replied the Old Year , who had already been tormented half to death with squabbles of this kind .
`` I care not if the name of Whig or Tory , with their interminable brawls about banks and the sub-treasury , abolition , Texas , the Florida war , and a million of other topics which you will learn soon enough for your own comfort , -- I care not , I say , if no whisper of these matters ever reaches my ears again .
Yet they have occupied so large a share of my attention that I scarcely know what else to tell you .
There has , indeed been a curious sort of war on the Canada border , where blood has streamed in the names of liberty and patriotism ; but it must remain for some future , perhaps far-distant , year to tell whether or no those holy names have been rightfully invoked .
Nothing so much depresses me in my view of mortal affairs as to see high energies wasted and human life and happiness thrown away for ends that appear oftentimes unwise , and still oftener remain unaccomplished .
But the wisest people and the best keep a steadfast faith that the progress of mankind is onward and upward , and that the toil and anguish of the path serve to wear away the imperfections of the immortal pilgrim , and will be felt no more when they have done their office . ''
`` Perhaps , '' cried the hopeful New Year -- `` perhaps I shall see that happy day . ''
`` I doubt whether it be so close at hand , '' answered the Old Year , gravely smiling .
`` You will soon grow weary of looking for that blessed consummation , and will turn for amusement -- as has frequently been my own practice -- to the affairs of some sober little city like this of Salem .
Here we sit on the steps of the new city-hall which has been completed under my administration , and it would make you laugh to see how the game of politics of which the Capitol at Washington is the great chess-board is here played in miniature .
Burning Ambition finds its fuel here ; here patriotism speaks boldly in the people 's behalf and virtuous economy demands retrenchment in the emoluments of a lamplighter ; here the aldermen range their senatorial dignity around the mayor 's chair of state and the common council feel that they have liberty in charge .
In short , human weakness and strength , passion and policy , man 's tendencies , his aims and modes of pursuing them , his individual character and his character in the mass , may be studied almost as well here as on the theatre of nations , and with this great advantage -- that , be the lesson ever so disastrous , its Liliputian scope still makes the beholder smile . ''
`` Have you done much for the improvement of the city ? ''
asked the New Year .
`` Judging from what little I have seen , it appears to be ancient and time-worn . ''
`` I have opened the railroad , '' said the elder Year , `` and half a dozen times a day you will hear the bell which once summoned the monks of a Spanish convent to their devotions announcing the arrival or departure of the cars .
Old Salem now wears a much livelier expression than when I first beheld her .
Strangers rumble down from Boston by hundreds at a time .
New faces throng in Essex street .
Railroad-hacks and omnibuses rattle over the pavements .
There is a perceptible increase of oyster-shops and other establishments for the accommodation of a transitory diurnal multitude .
But a more important change awaits the venerable town .
An immense accumulation of musty prejudices will be carried off by the free circulation of society .
A peculiarity of character of which the inhabitants themselves are hardly sensible will be rubbed down and worn away by the attrition of foreign substances .
Much of the result will be good ; there will likewise be a few things not so good .
Whether for better or worse , there will be a probable diminution of the moral influence of wealth , and the sway of an aristocratic class which from an era far beyond my memory has held firmer dominion here than in any other New England town . ''
The Old Year , having talked away nearly all of her little remaining breath , now closed her book of chronicles , and was about to take her departure , but her sister detained her a while longer by inquiring the contents of the huge bandbox which she was so painfully lugging along with her .
`` These are merely a few trifles , '' replied the Old Year , `` which I have picked up in my rambles and am going to deposit in the receptacle of things past and forgotten .
We sisterhood of years never carry anything really valuable out of the world with us .
Here are patterns of most of the fashions which I brought into vogue , and which have already lived out their allotted term ; you will supply their place with others equally ephemeral .
Here , put up in little china pots , like rouge , is a considerable lot of beautiful women 's bloom which the disconsolate fair ones owe me a bitter grudge for stealing .
I have likewise a quantity of men 's dark hair , instead of which I have left gray locks or none at all .
The tears of widows and other afflicted mortals who have received comfort during the last twelve months are preserved in some dozens of essence-bottles well corked and sealed .
I have several bundles of love-letters eloquently breathing an eternity of burning passion which grew cold and perished almost before the ink was dry .
Moreover , here is an assortment of many thousand broken promises and other broken ware , all very light and packed into little space .
The heaviest articles in my possession are a large parcel of disappointed hopes which a little while ago were buoyant enough to have inflated Mr. Lauriat 's balloon . ''
`` I have a fine lot of hopes here in my basket , '' remarked the New Year .
`` They are a sweet-smelling flower -- a species of rose . ''
`` They soon lose their perfume , '' replied the sombre Old Year .
`` What else have you brought to insure a welcome from the discontented race of mortals ? ''
`` Why , to say the truth , little or nothing else , '' said her sister , with a smile , `` save a few new Annuals and almanacs , and some New Year 's gifts for the children .
But I heartily wish well to poor mortals , and mean to do all I can for their improvement and happiness . ''
`` It is a good resolution , '' rejoined the Old Year .
`` And , by the way , I have a plentiful assortment of good resolutions which have now grown so stale and musty that I am ashamed to carry them any farther .
Only for fear that the city authorities would send Constable Mansfield with a warrant after me , I should toss them into the street at once .
Many other matters go to make up the contents of my bandbox , but the whole lot would not fetch a single bid even at an auction of worn-out furniture ; and as they are worth nothing either to you or anybody else , I need not trouble you with a longer catalogue . ''
`` And must I also pick up such worthless luggage in my travels ? ''
asked the New Year .
`` Most certainly , and well if you have no heavier load to bear , '' replied the other .
`` And now , my dear sister , I must bid you farewell , earnestly advising and exhorting you to expect no gratitude nor good-will from this peevish , unreasonable , inconsiderate , ill-intending and worse-behaving world .
However warmly its inhabitants may seem to welcome you , yet , do what you may and lavish on them what means of happiness you please , they will still be complaining , still craving what it is not in your power to give , still looking forward to some other year for the accomplishment of projects which ought never to have been formed , and which , if successful , would only provide new occasions of discontent .
If these ridiculous people ever see anything tolerable in you , it will be after you are gone for ever . ''
`` But I , '' cried the fresh-hearted New Year -- `` I shall try to leave men wiser than I find them .
I will offer them freely whatever good gifts Providence permits me to distribute , and will tell them to be thankful for what they have and humbly hopeful for more ; and surely , if they are not absolute fools , they will condescend to be happy , and will allow me to be a happy year .
For my happiness must depend on them . ''
`` Alas for you , then , my poor sister ! ''
said the Old Year , sighing , as she uplifted her burden .
`` We grandchildren of Time are born to trouble .
Happiness , they say , dwells in the mansions of eternity , but we can only lead mortals thither step by step with reluctant murmurings , and ourselves must perish on the threshold .
But hark !
my task is done . ''
The clock in the tall steeple of Dr. Emerson 's church struck twelve ; there was a response from Dr. Flint 's , in the opposite quarter of the city ; and while the strokes were yet dropping into the air the Old Year either flitted or faded away , and not the wisdom and might of angels , to say nothing of the remorseful yearnings of the millions who had used her ill , could have prevailed with that departed year to return one step .
But she , in the company of Time and all her kindred , must hereafter hold a reckoning with mankind .
So shall it be , likewise , with the maidenly New Year , who , as the clock ceased to strike , arose from the steps of the city-hall and set out rather timorously on her earthly course .
`` A happy New Year ! ''
cried a watchman , eying her figure very questionably , but without the least suspicion that he was addressing the New Year in person .
`` Thank you kindly , '' said the New Year ; and she gave the watchman one of the roses of hope from her basket .
`` May this flower keep a sweet smell long after I have bidden you good-bye ! ''
Then she stepped on more briskly through the silent streets , and such as were awake at the moment heard her footfall and said , `` The New Year is come ! ''
Wherever there was a knot of midnight roisterers , they quaffed her health .
She sighed , however , to perceive that the air was tainted -- as the atmosphere of this world must continually be -- with the dying breaths of mortals who had lingered just long enough for her to bury them .
But there were millions left alive to rejoice at her coming , and so she pursued her way with confidence , strewing emblematic flowers on the doorstep of almost every dwelling , which some persons will gather up and wear in their bosoms , and others will trample under foot .
The carrier-boy can only say further that early this morning she filled his basket with New Year 's addresses , assuring him that the whole city , with our new mayor and the aldermen and common council at its head , would make a general rush to secure copies .
Kind patrons , will not you redeem the pledge of the New Year ?
SNOWFLAKES .
There is snow in yonder cold gray sky of the morning , and through the partially-frosted window-panes I love to watch the gradual beginning of the storm .
A few feathery flakes are scattered widely through the air and hover downward with uncertain flight , now almost alighting on the earth , now whirled again aloft into remote regions of the atmosphere .
These are not the big flakes heavy with moisture which melt as they touch the ground and are portentous of a soaking rain .
It is to be in good earnest a wintry storm .
The two or three people visible on the sidewalks have an aspect of endurance , a blue-nosed , frosty fortitude , which is evidently assumed in anticipation of a comfortless and blustering day .
By nightfall -- or , at least , before the sun sheds another glimmering smile upon us -- the street and our little garden will be heaped with mountain snowdrifts .
The soil , already frozen for weeks past , is prepared to sustain whatever burden may be laid upon it , and to a Northern eye the landscape will lose its melancholy bleakness and acquire a beauty of its own when Mother Earth , like her children , shall have put on the fleecy garb of her winter 's wear .
The cloud-spirits are slowly weaving her white mantle .
As yet , indeed , there is barely a rime like hoar-frost over the brown surface of the street ; the withered green of the grass-plat is still discernible , and the slated roofs of the houses do but begin to look gray instead of black .
All the snow that has yet fallen within the circumference of my view , were it heaped up together , would hardly equal the hillock of a grave .
Thus gradually by silent and stealthy influences are great changes wrought .
These little snow-particles which the storm-spirit flings by handfuls through the air will bury the great Earth under their accumulated mass , nor permit her to behold her sister Sky again for dreary months .
We likewise shall lose sight of our mother 's familiar visage , and must content ourselves with looking heavenward the oftener .
Now , leaving the Storm to do his appointed office , let us sit down , pen in hand , by our fireside .
Gloomy as it may seem , there is an influence productive of cheerfulness and favorable to imaginative thought in the atmosphere of a snowy day .
The native of a Southern clime may woo the Muse beneath the heavy shade of summer foliage reclining on banks of turf , while the sound of singing-birds and warbling rivulets chimes in with the music of his soul .
In our brief summer I do not think , but only exist in the vague enjoyment of a dream .
My hour of inspiration -- if that hour ever comes -- is when the green log hisses upon the hearth , and the bright flame , brighter for the gloom of the chamber , rustles high up the chimney , and the coals drop tinkling down among the growing heaps of ashes .
When the casement rattles in the gust and the snowflakes or the sleety raindrops pelt hard against the window-panes , then I spread out my sheet of paper with the certainty that thoughts and fancies will gleam forth upon it like stars at twilight or like violets in May , perhaps to fade as soon .
However transitory their glow , they at least shine amid the darksome shadow which the clouds of the outward sky fling through the room .
Blessed , therefore , and reverently welcomed by me , her true-born son , be New England 's winter , which makes us one and all the nurslings of the storm and sings a familiar lullaby even in the wildest shriek of the December blast .
Now look we forth again and see how much of his task the storm-spirit has done .
Slow and sure !
He has the day -- perchance the week -- before him , and may take his own time to accomplish Nature 's burial in snow .
A smooth mantle is scarcely yet thrown over the withered grass-plat , and the dry stalks of annuals still thrust themselves through the white surface in all parts of the garden .
The leafless rose-bushes stand shivering in a shallow snowdrift , looking , poor things !
as disconsolate as if they possessed a human consciousness of the dreary scene .
This is a sad time for the shrubs that do not perish with the summer .
They neither live nor die ; what they retain of life seems but the chilling sense of death .
Very sad are the flower-shrubs in midwinter .
The roofs of the houses are now all white , save where the eddying wind has kept them bare at the bleak corners .
To discern the real intensity of the storm , we must fix upon some distant object -- as yonder spire -- and observe how the riotous gust fights with the descending snow throughout the intervening space .
Sometimes the entire prospect is obscured ; then , again , we have a distinct but transient glimpse of the tall steeple , like a giant 's ghost ; and now the dense wreaths sweep between , as if demons were flinging snowdrifts at each other in mid-air .
Look next into the street , where we have an amusing parallel to the combat of those fancied demons in the upper regions .
It is a snow-battle of schoolboys .
What a pretty satire on war and military glory might be written in the form of a child 's story by describing the snow-ball fights of two rival schools , the alternate defeats and victories of each , and the final triumph of one party , or perhaps of neither !
What pitched battles worthy to be chanted in Homeric strains !
What storming of fortresses built all of massive snow-blocks !
What feats of individual prowess and embodied onsets of martial enthusiasm !
And when some well-contested and decisive victory had put a period to the war , both armies should unite to build a lofty monument of snow upon the battlefield and crown it with the victor 's statue hewn of the same frozen marble .
In a few days or weeks thereafter the passer-by would observe a shapeless mound upon the level common , and , unmindful of the famous victory , would ask , `` How came it there ?
Who reared it ?
And what means it ? ''
The shattered pedestal of many a battle-monument has provoked these questions when none could answer .
Turn we again to the fireside and sit musing there , lending our ears to the wind till perhaps it shall seem like an articulate voice and dictate wild and airy matter for the pen .
Would it might inspire me to sketch out the personification of a New England winter !
And that idea , if I can seize the snow-wreathed figures that flit before my fancy , shall be the theme of the next page .
How does Winter herald his approach ?
By the shrieking blast of latter autumn which is Nature 's cry of lamentation as the destroyer rushes among the shivering groves where she has lingered and scatters the sear leaves upon the tempest .
When that cry is heard , the people wrap themselves in cloaks and shake their heads disconsolately , saying , `` Winter is at hand . ''
Then the axe of the woodcutter echoes sharp and diligently in the forest ; then the coal-merchants rejoice because each shriek of Nature in her agony adds something to the price of coal per ton ; then the peat-smoke spreads its aromatic fragrance through the atmosphere .
A few days more , and at eventide the children look out of the window and dimly perceive the flaunting of a snowy mantle in the air .
It is stern Winter 's vesture .
They crowd around the hearth and cling to their mother 's gown or press between their father 's knees , affrighted by the hollow roaring voice that bellows adown the wide flue of the chimney .
It is the voice of Winter ; and when parents and children hear it , they shudder and exclaim , `` Winter is come .
Cold Winter has begun his reign already . ''
Now throughout New England each hearth becomes an altar sending up the smoke of a continued sacrifice to the immitigable deity who tyrannizes over forest , country-side and town .
Wrapped in his white mantle , his staff a huge icicle , his beard and hair a wind-tossed snowdrift , he travels over the land in the midst of the northern blast , and woe to the homeless wanderer whom he finds upon his path !
There he lies stark and stiff , a human shape of ice , on the spot where Winter overtook him .
On strides the tyrant over the rushing rivers and broad lakes , which turn to rock beneath his footsteps .
His dreary empire is established ; all around stretches the desolation of the pole .
Yet not ungrateful be his New England children -LRB- for Winter is our sire , though a stern and rough one -RRB- -- not ungrateful even for the severities which have nourished our unyielding strength of character .
And let us thank him , too , for the sleigh-rides cheered by the music of merry bells ; for the crackling and rustling hearth when the ruddy firelight gleams on hardy manhood and the blooming cheek of woman : for all the home-enjoyments and the kindred virtues which flourish in a frozen soil .
Not that we grieve when , after some seven months of storm and bitter frost , Spring , in the guise of a flower-crowned virgin , is seen driving away the hoary despot , pelting him with violets by the handful and strewing green grass on the path behind him .
Often ere he will give up his empire old Winter rushes fiercely buck and hurls a snowdrift at the shrinking form of Spring , yet step by step he is compelled to retreat northward , and spends the summer month within the Arctic circle .
Such fantasies , intermixed among graver toils of mind , have made the winter 's day pass pleasantly .
Meanwhile , the storm has raged without abatement , and now , as the brief afternoon declines , is tossing denser volumes to and fro about the atmosphere .
On the window-sill there is a layer of snow reaching halfway up the lowest pane of glass .
The garden is one unbroken bed .
Along the street are two or three spots of uncovered earth where the gust has whirled away the snow , heaping it elsewhere to the fence-tops or piling huge banks against the doors of houses .
A solitary passenger is seen , now striding mid-leg deep across a drift , now scudding over the bare ground , while his cloak is swollen with the wind .
And now the jingling of bells -- a sluggish sound responsive to the horse 's toilsome progress through the unbroken drifts -- announces the passage of a sleigh with a boy clinging behind and ducking his head to escape detection by the driver .
Next comes a sledge laden with wood for some unthrifty housekeeper whom winter has surprised at a cold hearth .
But what dismal equipage now struggles along the uneven street ?
A sable hearse bestrewn with snow is bearing a dead man through the storm to his frozen bed .
Oh how dreary is a burial in winter , when the bosom of Mother Earth has no warmth for her poor child !
Evening -- the early eve of December -- begins to spread its deepening veil over the comfortless scene .
The firelight gradually brightens and throws my flickering shadow upon the walls and ceiling of the chamber , but still the storm rages and rattles against the windows .
Alas !
I shiver and think it time to be disconsolate , but , taking a farewell glance at dead Nature in her shroud , I perceive a flock of snowbirds skimming lightsomely through the tempest and flitting from drift to drift as sportively as swallows in the delightful prime of summer .
Whence come they ?
Where do they build their nests and seek their food ?
Why , having airy wings , do they not follow summer around the earth , instead of making themselves the playmates of the storm and fluttering on the dreary verge of the winter 's eve ?
I know not whence they come , nor why ; yet my spirit has been cheered by that wandering flock of snow-birds .
THE SEVEN VAGABONDS .
Rambling on foot in the spring of my life and the summer of the year , I came one afternoon to a point which gave me the choice of three directions .
Straight before me the main road extended its dusty length to Boston ; on the left a branch went toward the sea , and would have lengthened my journey a trifle of twenty or thirty miles , while by the right-hand path I might have gone over hills and lakes to Canada , visiting in my way the celebrated town of Stamford .
On a level spot of grass at the foot of the guide-post appeared an object which , though locomotive on a different principle , reminded me of Gulliver 's portable mansion among the Brobdignags .
It was a huge covered wagon -- or , more properly , a small house on wheels -- with a door on one side and a window shaded by green blinds on the other .
Two horses munching provender out of the baskets which muzzled them were fastened near the vehicle .
A delectable sound of music proceeded from the interior , and I immediately conjectured that this was some itinerant show halting at the confluence of the roads to intercept such idle travellers as myself .
A shower had long been climbing up the western sky , and now hung so blackly over my onward path that it was a point of wisdom to seek shelter here .
`` Halloo !
Who stands guard here ?
Is the doorkeeper asleep ? ''
cried I , approaching a ladder of two or three steps which was let down from the wagon .
The music ceased at my summons , and there appeared at the door , not the sort of figure that I had mentally assigned to the wandering showman , but a most respectable old personage whom I was sorry to have addressed in so free a style .
He wore a snuff-colored coat and small-clothes , with white top-boots , and exhibited the mild dignity of aspect and manner which may often be noticed in aged schoolmasters , and sometimes in deacons , selectmen or other potentates of that kind .
A small piece of silver was my passport within his premises , where I found only one other person , hereafter to be described .
`` This is a dull day for business , '' said the old gentleman as he ushered me in ; `` but I merely tarry here to refresh the cattle , being bound for the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Perhaps the movable scene of this narrative is still peregrinating New England , and may enable the reader to test the accuracy of my description .
The spectacle -- for I will not use the unworthy term of `` puppet-show '' -- consisted of a multitude of little people assembled on a miniature stage .
Among them were artisans of every kind in the attitudes of their toil , and a group of fair ladies and gay gentlemen standing ready for the dance ; a company of foot-soldiers formed a line across the stage , looking stern , grim and terrible enough to make it a pleasant consideration that they were but three inches high ; and conspicuous above the whole was seen a Merry Andrew in the pointed cap and motley coat of his profession .
All the inhabitants of this mimic world were motionless , like the figures in a picture , or like that people who one moment were alive in the midst of their business and delights and the next were transformed to statues , preserving an eternal semblance of labor that was ended and pleasure that could be felt no more .
Anon , however , the old gentleman turned the handle of a barrel-organ , the first note of which produced a most enlivening effect upon the figures and awoke them all to their proper occupations and amusements .
By the selfsame impulse the tailor plied his needle , the blacksmith 's hammer descended upon the anvil and the dancers whirled away on feathery tiptoes ; the company of soldiers broke into platoons , retreated from the stage , and were succeeded by a troop of horse , who came prancing onward with such a sound of trumpets and trampling of hoofs as might have startled Don Quixote himself ; while an old toper of inveterate ill-habits uplifted his black bottle and took off a hearty swig .
Meantime , the Merry Andrew began to caper and turn somersets , shaking his sides , nodding his head and winking his eyes in as lifelike a manner as if he were ridiculing the nonsense of all human affairs and making fun of the whole multitude beneath him .
At length the old magician -LRB- for I compared the showman to Prospero entertaining his guests with a masque of shadows -RRB- paused that I might give utterance to my wonder .
`` What an admirable piece of work is this ! ''
exclaimed I , lifting up my hands in astonishment .
Indeed , I liked the spectacle and was tickled with the old man 's gravity as he presided at it , for I had none of that foolish wisdom which reproves every occupation that is not useful in this world of vanities .
If there be a faculty which I possess more perfectly than most men , it is that of throwing myself mentally into situations foreign to my own and detecting with a cheerful eye the desirable circumstances of each .
I could have envied the life of this gray-headed showman , spent as it had been in a course of safe and pleasurable adventure in driving his huge vehicle sometimes through the sands of Cape Cod and sometimes over the rough forest-roads of the north and east , and halting now on the green before a village meeting-house and now in a paved square of the metropolis .
How often must his heart have been gladdened by the delight of children as they viewed these animated figures , or his pride indulged by haranguing learnedly to grown men on the mechanical powers which produced such wonderful effects , or his gallantry brought into play -- for this is an attribute which such grave men do not lack -- by the visits of pretty maidens !
And then with how fresh a feeling must he return at intervals to his own peculiar home !
`` I would I were assured of as happy a life as his , '' thought I. Though the showman 's wagon might have accommodated fifteen or twenty spectators , it now contained only himself and me and a third person , at whom I threw a glance on entering .
He was a neat and trim young man of two or three and twenty ; his drab hat and green frock-coat with velvet collar were smart , though no longer new , while a pair of green spectacles that seemed needless to his brisk little eyes gave him something of a scholar-like and literary air .
After allowing me a sufficient time to inspect the puppets , he advanced with a bow and drew my attention to some books in a corner of the wagon .
These he forthwith began to extol with an amazing volubility of well-sounding words and an ingenuity of praise that won him my heart as being myself one of the most merciful of critics .
Indeed , his stock required some considerable powers of commendation in the salesman .
There were several ancient friends of mine -- the novels of those happy days when my affections wavered between the Scottish Chiefs and Thomas Thumb -- besides a few of later date whose merits had not been acknowledged by the public .
I was glad to find that dear little venerable volume the New England Primer , looking as antique as ever , though in its thousandth new edition ; a bundle of superannuated gilt picture-books made such a child of me that , partly for the glittering covers and partly for the fairy-tales within , I bought the whole , and an assortment of ballads and popular theatrical songs drew largely on my purse .
To balance these expenditures , I meddled neither with sermons nor science nor morality , though volumes of each were there , nor with a Life of Franklin in the coarsest of paper , but so showily bound that it was emblematical of the doctor himself in the court-dress which he refused to wear at Paris , nor with Webster 's spelling-book , nor some of Byron 's minor poems , nor half a dozen little Testaments at twenty-five cents each .
Thus far the collection might have been swept from some great bookstore or picked up at an evening auction-room , but there was one small blue-covered pamphlet which the pedler handed me with so peculiar an air that I purchased it immediately at his own price ; and then for the first time the thought struck me that I had spoken face to face with the veritable author of a printed book .
The literary-man now evinced a great kindness for me , and I ventured to inquire which way he was travelling .
`` Oh , '' said he , `` I keep company with this old gentlemen here , and we are moving now toward the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
He then explained to me that for the present season he had rented a corner of the wagon as a book-store , which , as he wittily observed , was a true circulating library , since there were few parts of the country where it had not gone its rounds .
I approved of the plan exceedingly , and began to sum up within my mind the many uncommon felicities in the life of a book-pedler , especially when his character resembled that of the individual before me .
At a high rate was to be reckoned the daily and hourly enjoyment of such interviews as the present , in which he seized upon the admiration of a passing stranger and made him aware that a man of literary taste , and even of literary achievement , was travelling the country in a showman 's wagon .
A more valuable yet not infrequent triumph might be won in his conversations with some elderly clergyman long vegetating in a rocky , woody , watery back-settlement of New England , who as he recruited his library from the pedler 's stock of sermons would exhort him to seek a college education and become the first scholar in his class .
Sweeter and prouder yet would be his sensations when , talking poetry while he sold spelling-books , he should charm the mind , and haply touch the heart , of a fair country schoolmistress , herself an unhonored poetess , a wearer of blue stockings which none but himself took pains to look at .
But the scene of his completest glory would be when the wagon had halted for the night and his stock of books was transferred to some crowded bar-room .
Then would he recommend to the multifarious company , whether traveller from the city , or teamster from the hills , or neighboring squire , or the landlord himself , or his loutish hostler , works suited to each particular taste and capacity , proving , all the while , by acute criticism and profound remark , that the lore in his books was even exceeded by that in his brain .
Thus happily would he traverse the land , sometimes a herald before the march of Mind , sometimes walking arm in arm with awful Literature , and reaping everywhere a harvest of real and sensible popularity which the secluded bookworms by whose toil he lived could never hope for .
`` If ever I meddle with literature , '' thought I , fixing myself in adamantine resolution , `` it shall be as a travelling bookseller . ''
Though it was still mid-afternoon , the air had now grown dark about us , and a few drops of rain came down upon the roof of our vehicle , pattering like the feet of birds that had flown thither to rest .
A sound of pleasant voices made us listen , and there soon appeared halfway up the ladder the pretty person of a young damsel whose rosy face was so cheerful that even amid the gloomy light it seemed as if the sunbeams were peeping under her bonnet .
We next saw the dark and handsome features of a young man who , with easier gallantry than might have been expected in the heart of Yankee-land , was assisting her into the wagon .
It became immediately evident to us , when the two strangers stood within the door , that they were of a profession kindred to those of my companions , and I was delighted with the more than hospitable -- the even paternal -- kindness of the old showman 's manner as he welcomed them , while the man of literature hastened to lead the merry-eyed girl to a seat on the long bench .
`` You are housed but just in time , my young friends , '' said the master of the wagon ; `` the sky would have been down upon you within five minutes . ''
The young man 's reply marked him as a foreigner -- not by any variation from the idiom and accent of good English , but because he spoke with more caution and accuracy than if perfectly familiar with the language .
`` We knew that a shower was hanging over us , '' said he , `` and consulted whether it were best to enter the house on the top of yonder hill , but , seeing your wagon in the road -- '' `` We agreed to come hither , '' interrupted the girl , with a smile , `` because we should be more at home in a wandering house like this . ''
I , meanwhile , with many a wild and undetermined fantasy was narrowly inspecting these two doves that had flown into our ark .
The young man , tall , agile and athletic , wore a mass of black shining curls clustering round a dark and vivacious countenance which , if it had not greater expression , was at least more active and attracted readier notice , than the quiet faces of our countrymen .
At his first appearance he had been laden with a neat mahogany box of about two feet square , but very light in proportion to its size , which he had immediately unstrapped from his shoulders and deposited on the floor of the wagon .
The girl had nearly as fair a complexion as our own beauties , and a brighter one than most of them ; the lightness of her figure , which seemed calculated to traverse the whole world without weariness , suited well with the glowing cheerfulness of her face , and her gay attire , combining the rainbow hues of crimson , green and a deep orange , was as proper to her lightsome aspect as if she had been born in it .
This gay stranger was appropriately burdened with that mirth-inspiring instrument the fiddle , which her companion took from her hands , and shortly began the process of tuning .
Neither of us the previous company of the wagon needed to inquire their trade , for this could be no mystery to frequenters of brigade-musters , ordinations , cattle-shows , commencements , and other festal meetings in our sober land ; and there is a dear friend of mine who will smile when this page recalls to his memory a chivalrous deed performed by us in rescuing the show-box of such a couple from a mob of great double-fisted countrymen .
`` Come , '' said I to the damsel of gay attire ; `` shall we visit all the wonders of the world together ? ''
She understood the metaphor at once , though , indeed , it would not much have troubled me if she had assented to the literal meaning of my words .
The mahogany box was placed in a proper position , and I peeped in through its small round magnifying-window while the girl sat by my side and gave short descriptive sketches as one after another the pictures were unfolded to my view .
We visited together -- at least , our imaginations did -- full many a famous city in the streets of which I had long yearned to tread .
Once , I remember , we were in the harbor of Barcelona , gazing townward ; next , she bore me through the air to Sicily and bade me look up at blazing tna ; then we took wing to Venice and sat in a gondola beneath the arch of the Rialto , and anon she set me down among the thronged spectators at the coronation of Napoleon .
But there was one scene -- its locality she could not tell -- which charmed my attention longer than all those gorgeous palaces and churches , because the fancy haunted me that I myself the preceding summer had beheld just such a humble meeting-house , in just such a pine-surrounded nook , among our own green mountains .
All these pictures were tolerably executed , though far inferior to the girl 's touches of description ; nor was it easy to comprehend how in so few sentences , and these , as I supposed , in a language foreign to her , she contrived to present an airy copy of each varied scene .
When we had travelled through the vast extent of the mahogany box , I looked into my guide 's face . ''
` Where are you going , my pretty maid ? ' ''
inquired I , in the words of an old song .
`` Ah ! ''
said the gay damsel ; `` you might as well ask where the summer wind is going .
We are wanderers here and there and everywhere .
Wherever there is mirth our merry hearts are drawn to it .
To-day , indeed , the people have told us of a great frolic and festival in these parts ; so perhaps we may be needed at what you call the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Then , in my happy youth , and while her pleasant voice yet sounded in my ears , I sighed ; for none but myself , I thought , should have been her companion in a life which seemed to realize my own wild fancies cherished all through visionary boyhood to that hour .
To these two strangers the world was in its Golden Age -- not that , indeed , it was less dark and sad than ever , but because its weariness and sorrow had no community with their ethereal nature .
Wherever they might appear in their pilgrimage of bliss , Youth would echo back their gladness , care-stricken Maturity would rest a moment from its toil , and Age , tottering among the graves , would smile in withered joy for their sakes .
The lonely cot , the narrow and gloomy street , the sombre shade , would catch a passing gleam like that now shining on ourselves as these bright spirits wandered by .
Blessed pair , whose happy home was throughout all the earth !
I looked at my shoulders , and thought them broad enough to sustain those pictured towns and mountains ; mine , too , was an elastic foot as tireless as the wing of the bird of Paradise ; mine was then an untroubled heart that would have gone singing on its delightful way .
`` Oh , maiden , '' said I aloud , `` why did you not come hither alone ? ''
While the merry girl and myself were busy with the show-box the unceasing rain had driven another wayfarer into the wagon .
He seemed pretty nearly of the old showman 's age , but much smaller , leaner and more withered than he , and less respectably clad in a patched suit of gray ; withal , he had a thin , shrewd countenance and a pair of diminutive gray eyes , which peeped rather too keenly out of their puckered sockets .
This old fellow had been joking with the showman in a manner which intimated previous acquaintance , but , perceiving that the damsel and I had terminated our affairs , he drew forth a folded document and presented it to me .
As I had anticipated , it proved to be a circular , written in a very fair and legible hand and signed by several distinguished gentlemen whom I had never heard of , stating that the bearer had encountered every variety of misfortune and recommending him to the notice of all charitable people .
Previous disbursements had left me no more than a five-dollar bill , out of which , however , I offered to make the beggar a donation provided he would give me change for it .
The object of my beneficence looked keenly in my face , and discerned that I had none of that abominable spirit , characteristic though it be , of a full-blooded Yankee , which takes pleasure in detecting every little harmless piece of knavery .
`` Why , perhaps , '' said the ragged old mendicant , `` if the bank is in good standing , I ca n't say but I may have enough about me to change your bill . ''
`` It is a bill of the Suffolk Bank , '' said I , `` and better than the specie . ''
As the beggar had nothing to object , he now produced a small buff leather bag tied up carefully with a shoe-string .
When this was opened , there appeared a very comfortable treasure of silver coins of all sorts and sizes , and I even fancied that I saw gleaming among them the golden plumage of that rare bird in our currency the American eagle .
In this precious heap was my bank-note deposited , the rate of exchange being considerably against me .
His wants being thus relieved , the destitute man pulled out of his pocket an old pack of greasy cards which had probably contributed to fill the buff leather bag in more ways than one .
`` Come ! ''
said he ; `` I spy a rare fortune in your face , and for twenty-five cents more I 'll tell you what it is . ''
I never refuse to take a glimpse into futurity ; so , after shuffling the cards and when the fair damsel had cut them , I dealt a portion to the prophetic beggar .
Like others of his profession , before predicting the shadowy events that were moving on to meet me he gave proof of his preternatural science by describing scenes through which I had already passed .
Here let me have credit for a sober fact .
When the old man had read a page in his book of fate , he bent his keen gray eyes on mine and proceeded to relate in all its minute particulars what was then the most singular event of my life .
It was one which I had no purpose to disclose till the general unfolding of all secrets , nor would it be a much stranger instance of inscrutable knowledge or fortunate conjecture if the beggar were to meet me in the street today and repeat word for word the page which I have here written .
The fortune-teller , after predicting a destiny which time seems loth to make good , put up his cards , secreted his treasure-bag and began to converse with the other occupants of the wagon .
`` Well , old friend , '' said the showman , `` you have not yet told us which way your face is turned this afternoon . ''
`` I am taking a trip northward this warm weather , '' replied the conjurer , `` across the Connecticut first , and then up through Vermont , and maybe into Canada before the fall .
But I must stop and see the breaking up of the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
I began to think that all the vagrants in New England were converging to the camp-meeting and had made this wagon , their rendezvous by the way .
The showman now proposed that when the shower was over they should pursue the road to Stamford together , it being sometimes the policy of these people to form a sort of league and confederacy .
`` And the young lady too , '' observed the gallant bibliopolist , bowing to her profoundly , `` and this foreign gentleman , as I understand , are on a jaunt of pleasure to the same spot .
It would add incalculably to my own enjoyment , and I presume to that of my colleague and his friend , if they could be prevailed upon to join our party . ''
This arrangement met with approbation on all hands , nor were any of those concerned more sensible of its advantages than myself , who had no title to be included in it .
Having already satisfied myself as to the several modes in which the four others attained felicity , I next set my mind at work to discover what enjoyments were peculiar to the old `` straggler , '' as the people of the country would have termed the wandering mendicant and prophet .
As he pretended to familiarity with the devil , so I fancied that he was fitted to pursue and take delight in his way of life by possessing some of the mental and moral characteristics -- the lighter and more comic ones -- of the devil in popular stories .
Among them might be reckoned a love of deception for its own sake , a shrewd eye and keen relish for human weakness and ridiculous infirmity , and the talent of petty fraud .
Thus to this old man there would be pleasure even in the consciousness -- so insupportable to some minds -- that his whole life was a cheat upon the world , and that , so far as he was concerned with the public , his little cunning had the upper hand of its united wisdom .
Every day would furnish him with a succession of minute and pungent triumphs -- as when , for instance , his importunity wrung a pittance out of the heart of a miser , or when my silly good-nature transferred a part of my slender purse to his plump leather bag , or when some ostentatious gentleman should throw a coin to the ragged beggar who was richer than himself , or when -- though he would not always be so decidedly diabolical -- his pretended wants should make him a sharer in the scanty living of real indigence .
And then what an inexhaustible field of enjoyment , both as enabling him to discern so much folly and achieve such quantities of minor mischief , was opened to his sneering spirit by his pretensions to prophetic knowledge .
All this was a sort of happiness which I could conceive of , though I had little sympathy with it .
Perhaps , had I been then inclined to admit it , I might have found that the roving life was more proper to him than to either of his companions ; for Satan , to whom I had compared the poor man , has delighted , ever since the time of Job , in `` wandering up and down upon the earth , '' and , indeed , a crafty disposition which operates not in deep-laid plans , but in disconnected tricks , could not have an adequate scope , unless naturally impelled to a continual change of scene and society .
My reflections were here interrupted .
`` Another visitor ! ''
exclaimed the old showman .
The door of the wagon had been closed against the tempest , which was roaring and blustering with prodigious fury and commotion and beating violently against our shelter , as if it claimed all those homeless people for its lawful prey , while we , caring little for the displeasure of the elements , sat comfortably talking .
There was now an attempt to open the door , succeeded by a voice uttering some strange , unintelligible gibberish which my companions mistook for Greek and I suspected to be thieves ' Latin .
However , the showman stepped forward and gave admittance to a figure which made me imagine either that our wagon had rolled back two hundred years into past ages or that the forest and its old inhabitants had sprung up around us by enchantment .
It was a red Indian armed with his bow and arrow .
His dress was a sort of cap adorned with a single feather of some wild bird , and a frock of blue cotton girded tight about him ; on his breast , like orders of knighthood , hung a crescent and a circle and other ornaments of silver , while a small crucifix betokened that our father the pope had interposed between the Indian and the Great Spirit whom he had worshipped in his simplicity .
This son of the wilderness and pilgrim of the storm took his place silently in the midst of us .
When the first surprise was over , I rightly conjectured him to be one of the Penobscot tribe , parties of which I had often seen in their summer excursions down our Eastern rivers .
There they paddle their birch canoes among the coasting-schooners , and build their wigwam beside some roaring mill-dam , and drive a little trade in basket-work where their fathers hunted deer .
Our new visitor was probably wandering through the country toward Boston , subsisting on the careless charity of the people while he turned his archery to profitable account by shooting at cents which were to be the prize of his successful aim .
The Indian had not long been seated ere our merry damsel sought to draw him into conversation .
She , indeed , seemed all made up of sunshine in the month of May , for there was nothing so dark and dismal that her pleasant mind could not cast a glow over it ; and the wild man , like a fir tree in his native forest , soon began to brighten into a sort of sombre cheerfulness .
At length she inquired whether his journey had any particular end or purpose .
`` I go shoot at the camp-meeting at Stamford , '' replied the Indian .
`` And here are five more , '' said the girl , `` all aiming at the camp-meeting too .
You shall be one of us , for we travel with light hearts ; and , as for me , I sing merry songs and tell merry tales and am full of merry thoughts , and I dance merrily along the road , so that there is never any sadness among them that keep me company .
But oh , you would find it very dull indeed to go all the way to Stamford alone . ''
My ideas of the aboriginal character led me to fear that the Indian would prefer his own solitary musings to the gay society thus offered him ; on the contrary , the girl 's proposal met with immediate acceptance and seemed to animate him with a misty expectation of enjoyment .
I now gave myself up to a course of thought which , whether it flowed naturally from this combination of events or was drawn forth by a wayward fancy , caused my mind to thrill as if I were listening to deep music .
I saw mankind in this weary old age of the world either enduring a sluggish existence amid the smoke and dust of cities , or , if they breathed a purer air , still lying down at night with no hope but to wear out to-morrow , and all the to-morrows which make up life , among the same dull scenes and in the same wretched toil that had darkened the sunshine of today .
But there were some full of the primeval instinct who preserved the freshness of youth to their latest years by the continual excitement of new objects , new pursuits and new associates , and cared little , though their birthplace might have been here in New England , if the grave should close over them in Central Asia .
Fate was summoning a parliament of these free spirits ; unconscious of the impulse which directed them to a common centre , they had come hither from far and near , and last of all appeared the representatives of those mighty vagrants who had chased the deer during thousands of years , and were chasing it now in the spirit-land .
Wandering down through the waste of ages , the woods had vanished around his path ; his arm had lost somewhat of its strength , his foot of its fleetness , his mien of its wild regality , his heart and mind of their savage virtue and uncultured force , but here , untamable to the routine of artificial life , roving now along the dusty road as of old over the forest-leaves , -- here was the Indian still .
`` Well , '' said the old showman , in the midst of my meditations , `` here is an honest company of us -- one , two , three , four , five , six -- all going to the camp-meeting at Stamford .
Now , hoping no offence , I should like to know where this young gentleman may be going ? ''
I started .
How came I among these wanderers ?
The free mind that preferred its own folly to another 's wisdom , the open spirit that found companions everywhere -- above all , the restless impulse that had so often made me wretched in the midst of enjoyments , -- these were my claims to be of their society .
`` My friends , '' cried I , stepping into the centre of the wagon , `` I am going with you to the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
`` But in what capacity ? ''
asked the old showman , after a moment 's silence .
`` All of us here can get our bread in some creditable way .
Every honest man should have his livelihood .
You , sir , as I take it , are a mere strolling gentleman . ''
I proceeded to inform the company that when Nature gave me a propensity to their way of life she had not left me altogether destitute of qualifications for it , though I could not deny that my talent was less respectable , and might be less profitable , than the meanest of theirs .
My design , in short , was to imitate the story-tellers of whom Oriental travellers have told us , and become an itinerant novelist , reciting my own extemporaneous fictions to such audiences as I could collect .
`` Either this , '' said I , `` is my vocation , or I have been born in vain . ''
The fortune-teller , with a sly wink to the company , proposed to take me as an apprentice to one or other of his professions , either of which undoubtedly would have given full scope to whatever inventive talent I might possess .
The bibliopolist spoke a few words in opposition to my plan -- influenced partly , I suspect , by the jealousy of authorship , and partly by an apprehension that the viv-voce practice would become general among novelists , to the infinite detriment of the book trade .
Dreading a rejection , I solicited the interest of the merry damsel . ''
` Mirth , ' '' cried I , most aptly appropriating the words of L'Allegro , '' ` to thee I sue !
Mirth , admit me of thy crew ! ' ''
`` Let us indulge the poor youth , '' said Mirth , with a kindness which made me love her dearly , though I was no such coxcomb as to misinterpret her motives .
`` I have espied much promise in him .
True , a shadow sometimes flits across his brow , but the sunshine is sure to follow in a moment .
He is never guilty of a sad thought but a merry one is twin-born with it .
We will take him with us , and you shall see that he will set us all a-laughing before we reach the camp-meeting at Stamford . ''
Her voice silenced the scruples of the rest and gained me admittance into the league ; according to the terms of which , without a community of goods or profits , we were to lend each other all the aid and avert all the harm that might be in our power .
This affair settled , a marvellous jollity entered into the whole tribe of us , manifesting itself characteristically in each individual .
The old showman , sitting down to his barrel-organ , stirred up the souls of the pigmy people with one of the quickest tunes in the music-book ; tailors , blacksmiths , gentlemen and ladies all seemed to share in the spirit of the occasion , and the Merry Andrew played his part more facetiously than ever , nodding and winking particularly at me .
The young foreigner flourished his fiddle-bow with a master 's hand , and gave an inspiring echo to the showman 's melody .
The bookish man and the merry damsel started up simultaneously to dance , the former enacting the double shuffle in a style which everybody must have witnessed ere election week was blotted out of time , while the girl , setting her arms akimbo with both hands at her slim waist , displayed such light rapidity of foot and harmony of varying attitude and motion that I could not conceive how she ever was to stop , imagining at the moment that Nature had made her , as the old showman had made his puppets , for no earthly purpose but to dance jigs .
The Indian bellowed forth a succession of most hideous outcries , somewhat affrighting us till we interpreted them as the war-song with which , in imitation of his ancestors , he was prefacing the assault on Stamford .
The conjurer , meanwhile , sat demurely in a corner extracting a sly enjoyment from the whole scene , and , like the facetious Merry Andrew , directing his queer glance particularly at me .
As for myself , with great exhilaration of fancy , I began to arrange and color the incidents of a tale wherewith I proposed to amuse an audience that very evening ; for I saw that my associates were a little ashamed of me , and that no time was to be lost in obtaining a public acknowledgment of my abilities .
`` Come , fellow-laborers , '' at last said the old showman , whom we had elected president ; `` the shower is over , and we must be doing our duty by these poor souls at Stamford . ''
`` We 'll come among them in procession , with music and dancing , '' cried the merry damsel .
Accordingly -- for it must be understood that our pilgrimage was to be performed on foot -- we sallied joyously out of the wagon , each of us , even the old gentleman in his white top-boots , giving a great skip as we came down the ladder .
Above our heads there was such a glory of sunshine and splendor of clouds , and such brightness of verdure below , that , as I modestly remarked at the time , Nature seemed to have washed her face and put on the best of her jewelry and a fresh green gown in honor of our confederation .
Casting our eyes northward , we beheld a horseman approaching leisurely and splashing through the little puddle on the Stamford road .
Onward he came , sticking up in his saddle with rigid perpendicularity , a tall , thin figure in rusty black , whom the showman and the conjurer shortly recognized to be what his aspect sufficiently indicated -- a travelling preacher of great fame among the Methodists .
What puzzled us was the fact that his face appeared turned from , instead of to , the camp-meeting at Stamford .
However , as this new votary of the wandering life drew near the little green space where the guide-post and our wagon were situated , my six fellow-vagabonds and myself rushed forward and surrounded him , crying out with united voices , `` What news ?
What news from the camp-meeting at Stamford ? ''
The missionary looked down in surprise at as singular a knot of people as could have been selected from all his heterogeneous auditors .
Indeed , considering that we might all be classified under the general head of Vagabond , there was great diversity of character among the grave old showman , the sly , prophetic beggar , the fiddling foreigner and his merry damsel , the smart bibliopolist , the sombre Indian and myself , the itinerant novelist , a slender youth of eighteen .
I even fancied that a smile was endeavoring to disturb the iron gravity of the preacher 's mouth .
`` Good people , '' answered he , `` the camp-meeting is broke up . ''
So saying , the Methodist minister switched his steed and rode westward .
Our union being thus nullified by the removal of its object , we were sundered at once to the four winds of heaven .
The fortune-teller , giving a nod to all and a peculiar wink to me , departed on his Northern tour , chuckling within himself as he took the Stamford road .
The old showman and his literary coadjutor were already tackling their horses to the wagon with a design to peregrinate south-west along the sea-coast .
The foreigner and the merry damsel took their laughing leave and pursued the eastern road , which I had that day trodden ; as they passed away the young man played a lively strain and the girl 's happy spirit broke into a dance , and , thus dissolving , as it were , into sunbeams and gay music , that pleasant pair departed from my view .
Finally , with a pensive shadow thrown across my mind , yet emulous of the light philosophy of my late companions , I joined myself to the Penobscot Indian and set forth toward the distant city .
THE WHITE OLD MAID .
The moonbeams came through two deep and narrow windows and showed a spacious chamber richly furnished in an antique fashion .
From one lattice the shadow of the diamond panes was thrown upon the floor ; the ghostly light through the other slept upon a bed , falling between the heavy silken curtains and illuminating the face of a young man .
But how quietly the slumberer lay !
how pale his features !
And how like a shroud the sheet was wound about his frame !
Yes , it was a corpse in its burial-clothes .
Suddenly the fixed features seemed to move with dark emotion .
Strange fantasy !
It was but the shadow of the fringed curtain waving betwixt the dead face and the moonlight as the door of the chamber opened and a girl stole softly to the bedside .
Was there delusion in the moonbeams , or did her gesture and her eye betray a gleam of triumph as she bent over the pale corpse , pale as itself , and pressed her living lips to the cold ones of the dead ?
As she drew back from that long kiss her features writhed as if a proud heart were fighting with its anguish .
Again it seemed that the features of the corpse had moved responsive to her own .
Still an illusion .
The silken curtains had waved a second time betwixt the dead face and the moonlight as another fair young girl unclosed the door and glided ghostlike to the bedside .
There the two maidens stood , both beautiful , with the pale beauty of the dead between them .
But she who had first entered was proud and stately , and the other a soft and fragile thing .
`` Away ! ''
cried the lofty one .
`` Thou hadst him living ; the dead is mine . ''
`` Thine ! ''
returned the other , shuddering .
`` Well hast thou spoken ; the dead is thine . ''
The proud girl started and stared into her face with a ghastly look , but a wild-and mournful expression passed across the features of the gentle one , and , weak and helpless , she sank down on the bed , her head pillowed beside that of the corpse and her hair mingling with his dark locks .
A creature of hope and joy , the first draught of sorrow had bewildered her .
`` Edith ! ''
cried her rival .
Edith groaned as with a sudden compression of the heart , and , removing her cheek from the dead youth 's pillow , she stood upright , fearfully encountering the eyes of the lofty girl .
`` Wilt thou betray me ? ''
said the latter , calmly .
`` Till the dead bid me speak I will be silent , '' answered Edith .
`` Leave us alone together .
Go and live many years , and then return and tell me of thy life .
He too will be here .
Then , if thou tellest of sufferings more than death , we will both forgive thee . ''
`` And what shall be the token ? ''
asked the proud girl , as if her heart acknowledged a meaning in these wild words .
`` This lock of hair , '' said Edith , lifting one of the dark clustering curls that lay heavily on the dead man 's brow .
The two maidens joined their hands over the bosom of the corpse and appointed a day and hour far , far in time to come for their next meeting in that chamber .
The statelier girl gave one deep look at the motionless countenance and departed , yet turned again and trembled ere she closed the door , almost believing that her dead lover frowned upon her .
And Edith , too !
Was not her white form fading into the moonlight ?
Scorning her own weakness , she went forth and perceived that a negro slave was waiting in the passage with a waxlight , which he held between her face and his own and regarded her , as she thought , with an ugly expression of merriment .
Lifting his torch on high , the slave lighted her down the staircase and undid the portal of the mansion .
The young clergyman of the town had just ascended the steps , and , bowing to the lady , passed in without a word .
Years -- many years -- rolled on .
The world seemed new again , so much older was it grown since the night when those pale girls had clasped their hands across the bosom of the corpse .
In the interval a lonely woman had passed from youth to extreme age , and was known by all the town as the `` Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet . ''
A taint of insanity had affected her whole life , but so quiet , sad and gentle , so utterly free from violence , that she was suffered to pursue her harmless fantasies unmolested by the world with whose business or pleasures she had naught to do .
She dwelt alone , and never came into the daylight except to follow funerals .
Whenever a corpse was borne along the street , in sunshine , rain or snow , whether a pompous train of the rich and proud thronged after it or few and humble were the mourners , behind them came the lonely woman in a long white garment which the people called her shroud .
She took no place among the kindred or the friends , but stood at the door to hear the funeral prayer , and walked in the rear of the procession as one whose earthly charge it was to haunt the house of mourning and be the shadow of affliction and see that the dead were duly buried .
So long had this been her custom that the inhabitants of the town deemed her a part of every funeral , as much as the coffin-pall or the very corpse itself , and augured ill of the sinner 's destiny unless the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet came gliding like a ghost behind .
Once , it is said , she affrighted a bridal-party with her pale presence , appearing suddenly in the illuminated hall just as the priest was uniting a false maid to a wealthy man before her lover had been dead a year .
Evil was the omen to that marriage .
Sometimes she stole forth by moonlight and visited the graves of venerable integrity and wedded love and virgin innocence , and every spot where the ashes of a kind and faithful heart were mouldering .
Over the hillocks of those favored dead would she stretch out her arms with a gesture as if she were scattering seeds , and many believed that she brought them from the garden of Paradise , for the graves which she had visited were green beneath the snow and covered with sweet flowers from April to November .
Her blessing was better than a holy verse upon the tombstone .
Thus wore away her long , sad , peaceful and fantastic life till few were so old as she , and the people of later generations wondered how the dead had ever been buried or mourners had endured their grief without the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
Still years went on , and still she followed funerals and was not yet summoned to her own festival of death .
One afternoon the great street of the town was all alive with business and bustle , though the sun now gilded only the upper half of the church-spire , having left the housetops and loftiest trees in shadow .
The scene was cheerful and animated in spite of the sombre shade between the high brick buildings .
Here were pompous merchants in white wigs and laced velvet , the bronzed faces of sea-captains , the foreign garb and air of Spanish Creoles , and the disdainful port of natives of Old England , all contrasted with the rough aspect of one or two back-settlers negotiating sales of timber from forests where axe had never sounded .
Sometimes a lady passed , swelling roundly forth in an embroidered petticoat , balancing her steps in high-heeled shoes and courtesying with lofty grace to the punctilious obeisances of the gentlemen .
The life of the town seemed to have its very centre not far from an old mansion that stood somewhat back from the pavement , surrounded by neglected grass , with a strange air of loneliness rather deepened than dispelled by the throng so near it .
Its site would have been suitably occupied by a magnificent Exchange or a brick block lettered all over with various signs , or the large house itself might have made a noble tavern with the `` King 's Arms '' swinging before it and guests in every chamber , instead of the present solitude .
But , owing to some dispute about the right of inheritance , the mansion had been long without a tenant , decaying from year to year and throwing the stately gloom of its shadow over the busiest part of the town .
Such was the scene , and such the time , when a figure unlike any that have been described was observed at a distance down the street .
`` I espy a strange sail yonder , '' remarked a Liverpool captain -- `` that woman in the long white garment . ''
The sailor seemed much struck by the object , as were several others who at the same moment caught a glimpse of the figure that had attracted his notice .
Almost immediately the various topics of conversation gave place to speculations in an undertone on this unwonted occurrence .
`` Can there be a funeral so late this afternoon ? ''
inquired some .
They looked for the signs of death at every door -- the sexton , the hearse , the assemblage of black-clad relatives , all that makes up the woeful pomp of funerals .
They raised their eyes , also , to the sun-gilt spire of the church , and wondered that no clang proceeded from its bell , which had always tolled till now when this figure appeared in the light of day .
But none had heard that a corpse was to be borne to its home that afternoon , nor was there any token of a funeral except the apparition of the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
`` What may this portend ? ''
asked each man of his neighbor .
All smiled as they put the question , yet with a certain trouble in their eyes , as if pestilence , or some other wide calamity , were prognosticated by the untimely intrusion among the living of one whose presence had always been associated with death and woe .
What a comet is to the earth was that sad woman to the town .
Still she moved on , while the hum of surprise was hushed at her approach , and the proud and the humble stood aside that her white garment might not wave against them .
It was a long , loose robe of spotless purity .
Its wearer appeared very old , pale , emaciated and feeble , yet glided onward without the unsteady pace of extreme age .
At one point of her course a little rosy boy burst forth from a door and ran with open arms toward the ghostly woman , seeming to expect a kiss from her bloodless lips .
She made a slight pause , fixing her eye upon him with an expression of no earthly sweetness , so that the child shivered and stood awestruck rather than affrighted while the Old Maid passed on .
Perhaps her garment might have been polluted even by an infant 's touch ; perhaps her kiss would have been death to the sweet boy within the year .
`` She is but a shadow , '' whispered the superstitious .
`` The child put forth his arms and could not grasp her robe . ''
The wonder was increased when the Old Maid passed beneath the porch of the deserted mansion , ascended the moss-covered steps , lifted the iron knocker and gave three raps .
The people could only conjecture that some old remembrance , troubling her bewildered brain , had impelled the poor woman hither to visit the friends of her youth -- all gone from their home long since and for ever unless their ghosts still haunted it , fit company for the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
An elderly man approached the steps , and , reverently uncovering his gray locks , essayed to explain the matter .
`` None , madam , '' said he , `` have dwelt in this house these fifteen years agone -- no , not since the death of old Colonel Fenwicke , whose funeral you may remember to have followed .
His heirs , being ill-agreed among themselves , have let the mansion-house go to ruin . ''
The Old Maid looked slowly round with a slight gesture of one hand and a finger of the other upon her lip , appearing more shadow-like than ever in the obscurity of the porch .
But again she lifted the hammer , and gave , this time , a single rap .
Could it be that a footstep was now heard coming down the staircase of the old mansion which all conceived to have been so long untenanted ?
Slowly , feebly , yet heavily , like the pace of an aged and infirm person , the step approached , more distinct on every downward stair , till it reached the portal .
The bar fell on the inside ; the door was opened .
One upward glance toward the church-spire , whence the sunshine had just faded , was the last that the people saw of the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
`` Who undid the door ? ''
asked many .
This question , owing to the depth of shadow beneath the porch , no one could satisfactorily answer .
Two or three aged men , while protesting against an inference which might be drawn , affirmed that the person within was a negro and bore a singular resemblance to old Csar , formerly a slave in the house , but freed by death some thirty years before .
`` Her summons has waked up a servant of the old family , '' said one , half seriously .
`` Let us wait here , '' replied another ; `` more guests will knock at the door anon .
But the gate of the graveyard should be thrown open . ''
Twilight had overspread the town before the crowd began to separate or the comments on this incident were exhausted .
One after another was wending his way homeward , when a coach -- no common spectacle in those days -- drove slowly into the street .
It was an old-fashioned equipage , hanging close to the ground , with arms on the panels , a footman behind and a grave , corpulent coachman seated high in front , the whole giving an idea of solemn state and dignity .
There was something awful in the heavy rumbling of the wheels .
The coach rolled down the street , till , coming to the gateway of the deserted mansion , it drew up , and the footman sprang to the ground .
`` Whose grand coach is this ? ''
asked a very inquisitive body .
The footman made no reply , but ascended the steps of the old house , gave three taps with the iron hammer , and returned to open the coach door .
An old man possessed of the heraldic lore so common in that day examined the shield of arms on the panel .
`` Azure , a lion 's head erased , between three flowers de luce , '' said he , then whispered the name of the family to whom these bearings belonged .
The last inheritor of its honors was recently dead , after a long residence amid the splendor of the British court , where his birth and wealth had given him no mean station .
`` He left no child , '' continued the herald , `` and these arms , being in a lozenge , betoken that the coach appertains to his widow . ''
Further disclosures , perhaps , might have been made had not the speaker been suddenly struck dumb by the stern eye of an ancient lady who thrust forth her head from the coach , preparing to descend .
As she emerged the people saw that her dress was magnificent , and her figure dignified in spite of age and infirmity -- a stately ruin , but with a look at once of pride and wretchedness .
Her strong and rigid features had an awe about them unlike that of the white Old Maid , but as of something evil .
She passed up the steps , leaning on a gold-headed cane .
The door swung open as she ascended , and the light of a torch glittered on the embroidery of her dress and gleamed on the pillars of the porch .
After a momentary pause , a glance backward and then a desperate effort , she went in .
The decipherer of the coat-of-arms had ventured up the lower step , and , shrinking back immediately , pale and tremulous , affirmed that the torch was held by the very image of old Csar .
`` But such a hideous grin , '' added he , `` was never seen on the face of mortal man , black or white .
It will haunt me till my dying-day . ''
Meantime , the coach had wheeled round with a prodigious clatter on the pavement and rumbled up the street , disappearing in the twilight , while the ear still tracked its course .
Scarcely was it gone when the people began to question whether the coach and attendants , the ancient lady , the spectre of old Csar and the Old Maid herself were not all a strangely-combined delusion with some dark purport in its mystery .
The whole town was astir , so that , instead of dispersing , the crowd continually increased , and stood gazing up at the windows of the mansion , now silvered by the brightening moon .
The elders , glad to indulge the narrative propensity of age , told of the long-faded splendor of the family , the entertainments they had given and the guests , the greatest of the land , and even titled and noble ones from abroad , who had passed beneath that portal .
These graphic reminiscences seemed to call up the ghosts of those to whom they referred .
So strong was the impression on some of the more imaginative hearers that two or three were seized with trembling fits at one and the same moment , protesting that they had distinctly heard three other raps of the iron knocker .
`` Impossible ! ''
exclaimed others .
`` See !
The moon shines beneath the porch , and shows every part of it except in the narrow shade of that pillar .
There is no one there . ''
`` Did not the door open ? ''
whispered one of these fanciful persons .
`` Didst thou see it too ? ''
said his companion , in a startled tone .
But the general sentiment was opposed to the idea that a third visitant had made application at the door of the deserted house .
A few , however , adhered to this new marvel , and even declared that a red gleam like that of a torch had shone through the great front window , as if the negro were lighting a guest up the staircase .
This too was pronounced a mere fantasy .
But at once the whole multitude started , and each man beheld his own terror painted in the faces of all the rest .
`` What an awful thing is this ! ''
cried they .
A shriek too fearfully distinct for doubt had been heard within the mansion , breaking forth suddenly and succeeded by a deep stillness , as if a heart had burst in giving it utterance .
The people knew not whether to fly from the very sight of the house or to rush trembling in and search out the strange mystery .
Amid their confusion and affright they were somewhat reassured by the appearance of their clergyman , a venerable patriarch , and equally a saint , who had taught them and their fathers the way to heaven for more than the space of an ordinary lifetime .
He was a reverend figure with long white hair upon his shoulders , a white beard upon his breast and a back so bent over his staff that he seemed to be looking downward continually , as if to choose a proper grave for his weary frame .
It was some time before the good old man , being deaf and of impaired intellect , could be made to comprehend such portions of the affair as were comprehensible at all .
But when possessed of the facts , his energies assumed unexpected vigor .
`` Verily , '' said the old gentleman , `` it will be fitting that I enter the mansion-house of the worthy Colonel Fenwicke , lest any harm should have befallen that true Christian woman whom ye call the ` Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet . ' ''
Behold , then , the venerable clergyman ascending the steps of the mansion with a torch-bearer behind him .
It was the elderly man who had spoken to the Old Maid , and the same who had afterward explained the shield of arms and recognized the features of the negro .
Like their predecessors , they gave three raps with the iron hammer .
`` Old Csar cometh not , '' observed the priest .
`` Well , I wot he no longer doth service in this mansion . ''
`` Assuredly , then , it was something worse in old Csar 's likeness , '' said the other adventurer .
`` Be it as God wills , '' answered the clergyman .
`` See !
my strength , though it be much decayed , hath sufficed to open this heavy door .
Let us enter and pass up the staircase . ''
Here occurred a singular exemplification of the dreamy state of a very old man 's mind .
As they ascended the wide flight of stairs the aged clergyman appeared to move with caution , occasionally standing aside , and oftener bending his head , as it were in salutation , thus practising all the gestures of one who makes his way through a throng .
Reaching the head of the staircase , he looked around with sad and solemn benignity , laid aside his staff , bared his hoary locks , and was evidently on the point of commencing a prayer .
`` Reverend sir , '' said his attendant , who conceived this a very suitable prelude to their further search , `` would it not be well that the people join with us in prayer ? ''
`` Well-a-day ! ''
cried the old clergyman , staring strangely around him .
`` Art thou here with me , and none other ?
Verily , past times were present to me , and I deemed that I was to make a funeral prayer , as many a time heretofore , from the head of this staircase .
Of a truth , I saw the shades of many that are gone .
Yea , I have prayed at their burials , one after another , and the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet hath seen them to their graves . ''
Being now more thoroughly awake to their present purpose , he took his staff and struck forcibly on the floor , till there came an echo from each deserted chamber , but no menial to answer their summons .
They therefore walked along the passage , and again paused , opposite to the great front window , through which was seen the crowd in the shadow and partial moonlight of the street beneath .
On their right hand was the open door of a chamber , and a closed one on their left .
The clergyman pointed his cane to the carved oak panel of the latter .
`` Within that chamber , '' observed he , `` a whole lifetime since , did I sit by the death-bed of a goodly young man who , being now at the last gasp -- '' Apparently , there was some powerful excitement in the ideas which had now flashed across his mind .
He snatched the torch from his companion 's hand , and threw open the door with such sudden violence that the flame was extinguished , leaving them no other light than the moonbeams which fell through two windows into the spacious chamber .
It was sufficient to discover all that could be known .
In a high-backed oaken arm-chair , upright , with her hands clasped across her breast and her head thrown back , sat the Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet .
The stately dame had fallen on her knees with her forehead on the holy knees of the Old Maid , one hand upon the floor and the other pressed convulsively against her heart .
It clutched a lock of hair -- once sable , now discolored with a greenish mould .
As the priest and layman advanced into the chamber the Old Maid 's features assumed such a semblance of shifting expression that they trusted to hear the whole mystery explained by a single word .
But it was only the shadow of a tattered curtain waving betwixt the dead face and the moonlight .
`` Both dead ! ''
said the venerable man .
`` Then who shall divulge the secret ?
Methinks it glimmers to and fro in my mind like the light and shadow across the Old Maid 's face .
And now 't is gone ! ''
PETER GOLDTHWAITE 'S TREASURE .
`` And so , Peter , you wo n't even consider of the business ? ''
said Mr. John Brown , buttoning his surtout over the snug rotundity of his person and drawing on his gloves .
`` You positively refuse to let me have this crazy old house , and the land under and adjoining , at the price named ? ''
`` Neither at that , nor treble the sum , '' responded the gaunt , grizzled and threadbare Peter Goldthwaite .
`` The fact is , Mr. Brown , you must find another site for your brick block and be content to leave my estate with the present owner .
Next summer I intend to put a splendid new mansion over the cellar of the old house . ''
`` Pho , Peter ! ''
cried Mr. Brown as he opened the kitchen door ; `` content yourself with building castles in the air , where house-lots are cheaper than on earth , to say nothing of the cost of bricks and mortar .
Such foundations are solid enough for your edifices , while this underneath us is just the thing for mine ; and so we may both be suited .
What say you , again ? ''
`` Precisely what I said before , Mr. Brown , '' answered Peter Goldthwaite .
`` And , as for castles in the air , mine may not be as magnificent as that sort of architecture , but perhaps as substantial , Mr. Brown , as the very respectable brick block with dry-goods stores , tailors ' shops and banking-rooms on the lower floor , and lawyers ' offices in the second story , which you are so anxious to substitute . ''
`` And the cost , Peter ?
Eh ? ''
said Mr. Brown as he withdrew in something of a pet .
`` That , I suppose , will be provided for off-hand by drawing a check on Bubble Bank ? ''
John Brown and Peter Goldthwaite had been jointly known to the commercial world between twenty and thirty years before under the firm of Goldthwaite & Brown ; which copartnership , however , was speedily dissolved by the natural incongruity of its constituent parts .
Since that event , John Brown , with exactly the qualities of a thousand other John Browns , and by just such plodding methods as they used , had prospered wonderfully and become one of the wealthiest John Browns on earth .
Peter Goldthwaite , on the contrary , after innumerable schemes which ought to have collected all the coin and paper currency of the country into his coffers , was as needy a gentleman as ever wore a patch upon his elbow .
The contrast between him and his former partner may be briefly marked , for Brown never reckoned upon luck , yet always had it , while Peter made luck the main condition of his projects , and always missed it .
While the means held out his speculations had been magnificent , but were chiefly confined of late years to such small business as adventures in the lottery .
Once he had gone on a gold-gathering expedition somewhere to the South , and ingeniously contrived to empty his pockets more thoroughly than ever , while others , doubtless , were filling theirs with native bullion by the handful .
More recently he had expended a legacy of a thousand or two of dollars in purchasing Mexican scrip , and thereby became the proprietor of a province ; which , however , so far as Peter could find out , was situated where he might have had an empire for the same money -- in the clouds .
From a search after this valuable real estate Peter returned so gaunt and threadbare that on reaching New England the scarecrows in the corn-fields beckoned to him as he passed by .
`` They did but flutter in the wind , '' quoth Peter Goldthwaite .
No , Peter , they beckoned , for the scarecrows knew their brother .
At the period of our story his whole visible income would not have paid the tax of the old mansion in which we find him .
It was one of those rusty , moss-grown , many-peaked wooden houses which are scattered about the streets of our elder towns , with a beetle-browed second story projecting over the foundation , as if it frowned at the novelty around it .
This old paternal edifice , needy as he was , and though , being centrally situated on the principal street of the town , it would have brought him a handsome sum , the sagacious Peter had his own reasons for never parting with , either by auction or private sale .
There seemed , indeed , to be a fatality that connected him with his birthplace ; for , often as he had stood on the verge of ruin , and standing there even now , he had not yet taken the step beyond it which would have compelled him to surrender the house to his creditors .
So here he dwelt with bad luck till good should come .
Here , then , in his kitchen -- the only room where a spark of fire took off the chill of a November evening -- poor Peter Goldthwaite had just been visited by his rich old partner .
At the close of their interview , Peter , with rather a mortified look , glanced downward at his dress , parts of which appeared as ancient as the days of Goldthwaite & Brown .
His upper garment was a mixed surtout , woefully faded , and patched with newer stuff on each elbow ; beneath this he wore a threadbare black coat , some of the silk buttons of which had been replaced with others of a different pattern ; and , lastly , though he lacked not a pair of gray pantaloons , they were very shabby ones , and had been partially turned brown by the frequent toasting of Peter 's shins before a scanty fire .
Peter 's person was in keeping with his goodly apparel .
Gray-headed , hollow-eyed , pale-cheeked and lean-bodied , he was the perfect picture of a man who had fed on windy schemes and empty hopes till he could neither live on such unwholesome trash nor stomach more substantial food .
But , withal , this Peter Goldthwaite , crack-brained simpleton as , perhaps , he was , might have cut a very brilliant figure in the world had he employed his imagination in the airy business of poetry instead of making it a demon of mischief in mercantile pursuits .
After all , he was no bad fellow , but as harmless as a child , and as honest and honorable , and as much of the gentleman which Nature meant him for , as an irregular life and depressed circumstances will permit any man to be .
As Peter stood on the uneven bricks of his hearth looking round at the disconsolate old kitchen his eyes began to kindle with the illumination of an enthusiasm that never long deserted him .
He raised his hand , clenched it and smote it energetically against the smoky panel over the fireplace .
`` The time is come , '' said he ; `` with such a treasure at command , it were folly to be a poor man any longer .
Tomorrow morning I will begin with the garret , nor desist till I have torn the house down . ''
Deep in the chimney-corner , like a witch in a dark cavern , sat a little old woman mending one of the two pairs of stockings wherewith Peter Goldthwaite kept his toes from being frost-bitten .
As the feet were ragged past all darning , she had cut pieces out of a cast-off flannel petticoat to make new soles .
Tabitha Porter was an old maid upward of sixty years of age , fifty-five of which she had sat in that same chimney-corner , such being the length of time since Peter 's grandfather had taken her from the almshouse .
She had no friend but Peter , nor Peter any friend but Tabitha ; so long as Peter might have a shelter for his own head , Tabitha would know where to shelter hers , or , being homeless elsewhere , she would take her master by the hand and bring him to her native home , the almshouse .
Should it ever be necessary , she loved him well enough to feed him with her last morsel and clothe him with her under-petticoat .
But Tabitha was a queer old woman , and , though never infected with Peter 's flightiness , had become so accustomed to his freaks and follies that she viewed them all as matters of course .
Hearing him threaten to tear the house down , she looked quietly up from her work .
`` Best leave the kitchen till the last , Mr. Peter , '' said she .
`` The sooner we have it all down , the better , '' said Peter Goldthwaite .
`` I am tired to death of living in this cold , dark , windy , smoky , creaking , groaning , dismal old house .
I shall feel like a younger man when we get into my splendid brick mansion , as , please Heaven , we shall by this time next autumn .
You shall have a room on the sunny side , old Tabby , finished and furnished as best may suit your own notions . ''
`` I should like it pretty much such a room as this kitchen , '' answered Tabitha .
`` It will never be like home to me till the chimney-corner gets as black with smoke as this , and that wo n't be these hundred years .
How much do you mean to lay out on the house , Mr. Peter ? ''
`` What is that to the purpose ? ''
exclaimed Peter , loftily .
`` Did not my great-grand-uncle , Peter Goldthwaite , who died seventy years ago , and whose namesake I am , leave treasure enough to build twenty such ? ''
`` I ca n't say but he did , Mr. Peter , '' said Tabitha , threading her needle .
Tabitha well understood that Peter had reference to an immense hoard of the precious metals which was said to exist somewhere in the cellar or walls , or under the floors , or in some concealed closet or other out-of-the-way nook of the old house .
This wealth , according to tradition , had been accumulated by a former Peter Goldthwaite whose character seems to have borne a remarkable similitude to that of the Peter of our story .
Like him , he was a wild projector , seeking to heap up gold by the bushel and the cart-load instead of scraping it together coin by coin .
Like Peter the second , too , his projects had almost invariably failed , and , but for the magnificent success of the final one , would have left him with hardly a coat and pair of breeches to his gaunt and grizzled person .
Reports were various as to the nature of his fortunate speculation , one intimating that the ancient Peter had made the gold by alchemy ; another , that he had conjured it out of people 's pockets by the black art ; and a third -- still more unaccountable -- that the devil had given him free access to the old provincial treasury .
It was affirmed , however , that some secret impediment had debarred him from the enjoyment of his riches , and that he had a motive for concealing them from his heir , or , at any rate , had died without disclosing the place of deposit .
The present Peter 's father had faith enough in the story to cause the cellar to be dug over .
Peter himself chose to consider the legend as an indisputable truth , and amid his many troubles had this one consolation -- that , should all other resources fail , he might build up his fortunes by tearing his house down .
Yet , unless he felt a lurking distrust of the golden tale , it is difficult to account for his permitting the paternal roof to stand so long , since he had never yet seen the moment when his predecessor 's treasure would not have found plenty of room in his own strong-box .
But now was the crisis .
Should he delay the search a little longer , the house would pass from the lineal heir , and with it the vast heap of gold , to remain in its burial-place till the ruin of the aged walls should discover it to strangers of a future generation .
`` Yes , '' cried Peter Goldthwaite , again ; `` to-morrow I will set about it . ''
The deeper he looked at the matter , the more certain of success grew Peter .
His spirits were naturally so elastic that even now , in the blasted autumn of his age , he could often compete with the springtime gayety of other people .
Enlivened by his brightening prospects , he began to caper about the kitchen like a hobgoblin , with the queerest antics of his lean limbs and gesticulations of his starved features .
Nay , in the exuberance of his feelings , he seized both of Tabitha 's hands and danced the old lady across the floor till the oddity of her rheumatic motions set him into a roar of laughter , which was echoed back from the rooms and chambers , as if Peter Goldthwaite were laughing in every one .
Finally , he bounded upward , almost out of sight , into the smoke that clouded the roof of the kitchen , and , alighting safely on the floor again , endeavored to resume his customary gravity .
`` To-morrow , at sunrise , '' he repeated , taking his lamp to retire to bed , `` I 'll see whether this treasure be hid in the wall of the garret . ''
`` And , as we 're out of wood , Mr. Peter , '' said Tabitha , puffing and panting with her late gymnastics , `` as fast as you tear the house down I 'll make a fire with the pieces . ''
Gorgeous that night were the dreams of Peter Goldthwaite .
At one time he was turning a ponderous key in an iron door not unlike the door of a sepulchre , but which , being opened , disclosed a vault heaped up with gold coin as plentifully as golden corn in a granary .
There were chased goblets , also , and tureens , salvers , dinner-dishes and dish-covers of gold or silver-gilt , besides chains and other jewels , incalculably rich , though tarnished with the damps of the vault ; for , of all the wealth that was irrevocably lost to man , whether buried in the earth or sunken in the sea , Peter Goldthwaite had found it in this one treasure-place .
Anon he had returned to the old house as poor as ever , and was received at the door by the gaunt and grizzled figure of a man whom he might have mistaken for himself , only that his garments were of a much elder fashion .
But the house , without losing its former aspect , had been changed into a palace of the precious metals .
The floors , walls and ceilings were of burnished silver ; the doors , the window-frames , the cornices , the balustrades and the steps of the staircase , of pure gold ; and silver , with gold bottoms , were the chairs , and gold , standing on silver legs , the high chests of drawers , and silver the bedsteads , with blankets of woven gold and sheets of silver tissue .
The house had evidently been transmuted by a single touch , for it retained all the marks that Peter remembered , but in gold or silver instead of wood , and the initials of his name -- which when a boy he had cut in the wooden door-post -- remained as deep in the pillar of gold .
A happy man would have been Peter Goldthwaite except for a certain ocular deception which , whenever he glanced backward , caused the house to darken from its glittering magnificence into the sordid gloom of yesterday .
Up betimes rose Peter , seized an axe , hammer and saw which he had placed by his bedside , and hied him to the garret .
It was but scantily lighted up as yet by the frosty fragments of a sunbeam which began to glimmer through the almost opaque bull-eyes of the window .
A moralizer might find abundant themes for his speculative and impracticable wisdom in a garret .
There is the limbo of departed fashions , aged trifles of a day and whatever was valuable only to one generation of men , and which passed to the garret when that generation passed to the grave -- not for safekeeping , but to be out of the way .
Peter saw piles of yellow and musty account-books in parchment covers , wherein creditors long dead and buried had written the names of dead and buried debtors in ink now so faded that their moss-grown tombstones were more legible .
He found old moth-eaten garments , all in rags and tatters , or Peter would have put them on .
Here was a naked and rusty sword -- not a sword of service , but a gentleman 's small French rapier -- which had never left its scabbard till it lost it .
Here were canes of twenty different sorts , but no gold-headed ones , and shoebuckles of various pattern and material , but not silver nor set with precious stones .
Here was a large box full of shoes with high heels and peaked toes .
Here , on a shelf , were a multitude of phials half filled with old apothecary 's stuff which , when the other half had done its business on Peter 's ancestors , had been brought hither from the death-chamber .
Here -- not to give a longer inventory of articles that will never be put up at auction -- was the fragment of a full-length looking-glass which by the dust and dimness of its surface made the picture of these old things look older than the reality .
When Peter , not knowing that there was a mirror there , caught the faint traces of his own figure , he partly imagined that the former Peter Goldthwaite had come back either to assist or impede his search for the hidden wealth .
And at that moment a strange notion glimmered through his brain that he was the identical Peter who had concealed the gold , and ought to know whereabout it lay .
This , however , he had unaccountably forgotten .
`` Well , Mr. Peter ! ''
cried Tabitha , on the garret stairs .
`` Have you torn the house down enough to heat the teakettle ? ''
`` Not yet , old Tabby , '' answered Peter , `` but that 's soon done , as you shall see . ''
With the word in his mouth , he uplifted the axe , and laid about him so vigorously that the dust flew , the boards crashed , and in a twinkling the old woman had an apron full of broken rubbish .
`` We shall get our winter 's wood cheap , '' quoth Tabitha .
The good work being thus commenced , Peter beat down all before him , smiting and hewing at the joints and timbers , unclenching spike-nails , ripping and tearing away boards , with a tremendous racket from morning till night .
He took care , however , to leave the outside shell of the house untouched , so that the neighbors might not suspect what was going on .
Never , in any of his vagaries , though each had made him happy while it lasted , had Peter been happier than now .
Perhaps , after all , there was something in Peter Goldthwaite 's turn of mind which brought him an inward recompense for all the external evil that it caused .
If he were poor , ill-clad , even hungry and exposed , as it were , to be utterly annihilated by a precipice of impending ruin , yet only his body remained in these miserable circumstances , while his aspiring soul enjoyed the sunshine of a bright futurity .
It was his nature to be always young , and the tendency of his mode of life to keep him so .
Gray hairs were nothing -- no , nor wrinkles nor infirmity ; he might look old , indeed , and be somewhat disagreeably connected with a gaunt old figure much the worse for wear , but the true , the essential Peter was a young man of high hopes just entering on the world .
At the kindling of each new fire his burnt-out youth rose afresh from the old embers and ashes .
It rose exulting now .
Having lived thus long -- not too long , but just to the right age -- a susceptible bachelor with warm and tender dreams , he resolved , so soon as the hidden gold should flash to light , to go a-wooing and win the love of the fairest maid in town .
What heart could resist him ?
Happy Peter Goldthwaite !
Every evening -- as Peter had long absented himself from his former lounging-places at insurance offices , news-rooms , and book-stores , and as the honor of his company was seldom requested in private circles -- he and Tabitha used to sit down sociably by the kitchen hearth .
This was always heaped plentifully with the rubbish of his day 's labor .
As the foundation of the fire there would be a goodly-sized back-log of red oak , which after being sheltered from rain or damp above a century still hissed with the heat and distilled streams of water from each end , as if the tree had been cut down within a week or two .
Next there were large sticks , sound , black and heavy , which had lost the principle of decay and were indestructible except by fire , wherein they glowed like red-hot bars of iron .
On this solid basis Tabitha would rear a lighter structure , composed of the splinters of door-panels , ornamented mouldings , and such quick combustibles , which caught like straw and threw a brilliant blaze high up the spacious flue , making its sooty sides visible almost to the chimney-top .
Meantime , the gloom of the old kitchen would be chased out of the cobwebbed corners and away from the dusky cross-beams overhead , and driven nobody could tell whither , while Peter smiled like a gladsome man and Tabitha seemed a picture of comfortable age .
All this , of course , was but an emblem of the bright fortune which the destruction of the house would shed upon its occupants .
While the dry pine was flaming and crackling like an irregular discharge of fairy-musketry , Peter sat looking and listening in a pleasant state of excitement ; but when the brief blaze and uproar were succeeded by the dark-red glow , the substantial heat and the deep singing sound which were to last throughout the evening , his humor became talkative .
One night -- the hundredth time -- he teased Tabitha to tell him something new about his great-granduncle .
`` You have been sitting in that chimney-corner fifty-five years , old Tabby , and must have heard many a tradition about him , '' said Peter .
`` Did not you tell me that when you first came to the house there was an old woman sitting where you sit now who had been housekeeper to the famous Peter Goldthwaite ? ''
`` So there was , Mr. Peter , '' answered Tabitha , `` and she was near about a hundred years old .
She used to say that she and old Peter Goldthwaite had often spent a sociable evening by the kitchen fire -- pretty much as you and I are doing now , Mr. Peter . ''
`` The old fellow must have resembled me in more points than one , '' said Peter , complacently , `` or he never would have grown so rich .
But methinks he might have invested the money better than he did .
No interest !
nothing but good security !
and the house to be torn down to come at it !
What made him hide it so snug , Tabby ? ''
`` Because he could not spend it , '' said Tabitha , `` for as often as he went to unlock the chest the Old Scratch came behind and caught his arm .
The money , they say , was paid Peter out of his purse , and he wanted Peter to give him a deed of this house and land , which Peter swore he would not do . ''
`` Just as I swore to John Brown , my old partner , '' remarked Peter .
`` But this is all nonsense , Tabby ; I do n't believe the story . ''
`` Well , it may not be just the truth , '' said Tabitha , `` for some folks say that Peter did make over the house to the Old Scratch , and that 's the reason it has always been so unlucky to them that lived in it .
And as soon as Peter had given him the deed the chest flew open , and Peter caught up a handful of the gold .
But , lo and behold !
there was nothing in his fist but a parcel of old rags . ''
`` Hold your tongue , you silly old Tabby ! ''
cried Peter , in great wrath .
`` They were as good golden guineas as ever bore the effigies of the king of England .
It seems as if I could recollect the whole circumstance , and how I , or old Peter , or whoever it was , thrust in my hand , or his hand , and drew it out all of a blaze with gold .
Old rags indeed ! ''
But it was not an old woman 's legend that would discourage Peter Goldthwaite .
All night long he slept among pleasant dreams , and awoke at daylight with a joyous throb of the heart which few are fortunate enough to feel beyond their boyhood .
Day after day he labored hard without wasting a moment except at meal-times , when Tabitha summoned him to the pork and cabbage , or such other sustenance as she had picked up or Providence had sent them .
Being a truly pious man , Peter never failed to ask a blessing -- if the food were none of the best , then so much the more earnestly , as it was more needed -- nor to return thanks , if the dinner had been scanty , yet for the good appetite which was better than a sick stomach at a feast .
Then did he hurry back to his toil , and in a moment was lost to sight in a cloud of dust from the old walls , though sufficiently perceptible to the ear by the clatter which he raised in the midst of it .
How enviable is the consciousness of being usefully employed !
Nothing troubled Peter , or nothing but those phantoms of the mind which seem like vague recollections , yet have also the aspect of presentiments .
He often paused with his axe uplifted in the air , and said to himself , `` Peter Goldthwaite , did you never strike this blow before ? ''
or `` Peter , what need of tearing the whole house down ?
Think a little while , and you will remember where the gold is hidden . ''
Days and weeks passed on , however , without any remarkable discovery .
Sometimes , indeed , a lean gray rat peeped forth at the lean gray man , wondering what devil had got into the old house , which had always been so peaceable till now .
And occasionally Peter sympathized with the sorrows of a female mouse who had brought five or six pretty , little , soft and delicate young ones into the world just in time to see them crushed by its ruin .
But as yet no treasure .
By this time , Peter , being as determined as fate and as diligent as time , had made an end with the uppermost regions and got down to the second story , where he was busy in one of the front chambers .
It had formerly been the state-bedchamber , and was honored by tradition as the sleeping-apartment of Governor Dudley and many other eminent guests .
The furniture was gone .
There were remnants of faded and tattered paper-hangings , but larger spaces of bare wall ornamented with charcoal sketches , chiefly of people 's heads in profile .
These being specimens of Peter 's youthful genius , it went more to his heart to obliterate them than if they had been pictures on a church wall by Michael Angelo .
One sketch , however , and that the best one , affected him differently .
It represented a ragged man partly supporting himself on a spade and bending his lean body over a hole in the earth , with one hand extended to grasp something that he had found .
But close behind him , with a fiendish laugh on his features , appeared a figure with horns , a tufted tail and a cloven hoof .
`` Avaunt , Satan ! ''
cried Peter .
`` The man shall have his gold . ''
Uplifting his axe , he hit the horned gentleman such a blow on the head as not only demolished him , but the treasure-seeker also , and caused the whole scene to vanish like magic .
Moreover , his axe broke quite through the plaster and laths and discovered a cavity .
`` Mercy on us , Mr. Peter !
Are you quarrelling with the Old Scratch ? ''
said Tabitha , who was seeking some fuel to put under the dinner-pot .
Without answering the old woman , Peter broke down a further space of the wall , and laid open a small closet or cupboard on one side of the fireplace , about breast-high from the ground .
It contained nothing but a brass lamp covered with verdigris , and a dusty piece of parchment .
While Peter inspected the latter , Tabitha seized the lamp and began to rub it with her apron .
`` There is no use in rubbing it , Tabitha , '' said Peter .
`` It is not Aladdin 's lamp , though I take it to be a token of as much luck .
Look here , Tabby ! ''
Tabitha took the parchment and held it close to her nose , which was saddled with a pair of iron-bound spectacles .
But no sooner had she begun to puzzle over it than she burst into a chuckling laugh , holding both her hands against her sides .
`` You ca n't make a fool of the old woman , '' cried she .
`` This is your own handwriting , Mr. Peter , the same as in the letter you sent me from Mexico . ''
`` There is certainly a considerable resemblance , '' said Peter , again examining the parchment .
`` But you know yourself , Tabby , that this closet must have been plastered up before you came to the house or I came into the world .
No ; this is old Peter Goldthwaite 's writing .
These columns of pounds , shillings and pence are his figures , denoting the amount of the treasure , and this , at the bottom , is doubtless a reference to the place of concealment .
But the ink has either faded or peeled off , so that it is absolutely illegible .
What a pity ! ''
`` Well , this lamp is as good as new .
That 's some comfort , '' said Tabitha .
`` A lamp ! ''
thought Peter .
`` That indicates light on my researches . ''
For the present Peter felt more inclined to ponder on this discovery than to resume his labors .
After Tabitha had gone down stairs he stood poring over the parchment at one of the front windows , which was so obscured with dust that the sun could barely throw an uncertain shadow of the casement across the floor .
Peter forced it open and looked out upon the great street of the town , while the sun looked in at his old house .
The air , though mild , and even warm , thrilled Peter as with a dash of water .
It was the first day of the January thaw .
The snow lay deep upon the housetops , but was rapidly dissolving into millions of water-drops , which sparkled downward through the sunshine with the noise of a summer shower beneath the eaves .
Along the street the trodden snow was as hard and solid as a pavement of white marble , and had not yet grown moist in the spring-like temperature .
But when Peter thrust forth his head , he saw that the inhabitants , if not the town , were already thawed out by this warm day , after two or three weeks of winter weather .
It gladdened him -- a gladness with a sigh breathing through it -- to see the stream of ladies gliding along the slippery sidewalks with their red cheeks set off by quilted hoods , boas and sable capes like roses amidst a new kind of foliage .
The sleigh bells jingled to and fro continually , sometimes announcing the arrival of a sleigh from Vermont laden with the frozen bodies of porkers or sheep , and perhaps a deer or two ; sometimes , of a regular marketman with chickens , geese and turkeys , comprising the whole colony of a barn-yard ; and sometimes , of a farmer and his dame who had come to town partly for the ride , partly to go a-shopping and partly for the sale of some eggs and butter .
This couple rode in an old-fashioned square sleigh which had served them twenty winters and stood twenty summers in the sun beside their door .
Now a gentleman and lady skimmed the snow in an elegant car shaped somewhat like a cockle-shell ; now a stage-sleigh with its cloth curtains thrust aside to admit the sun dashed rapidly down the street , whirling in and out among the vehicles that obstructed its passage ; now came round a corner the similitude of Noah 's ark on runners , being an immense open sleigh with seats for fifty people and drawn by a dozen horses .
This spacious receptacle was populous with merry maids and merry bachelors , merry girls and boys and merry old folks , all alive with fun and grinning to the full width of their mouths .
They kept up a buzz of babbling voices and low laughter , and sometimes burst into a deep , joyous shout which the spectators answered with three cheers , while a gang of roguish boys let drive their snow-balls right among the pleasure-party .
The sleigh passed on , and when concealed by a bend of the street was still audible by a distant cry of merriment .
Never had Peter beheld a livelier scene than was constituted by all these accessories -- the bright sun , the flashing water-drops , the gleaming snow , the cheerful multitude , the variety of rapid vehicles and the jingle-jangle of merry bells which made the heart dance to their music .
Nothing dismal was to be seen except that peaked piece of antiquity Peter Goldthwaite 's house , which might well look sad externally , since such a terrible consumption was preying on its insides .
And Peter 's gaunt figure , half visible in the projecting second story , was worthy of his house .
`` Peter !
How goes it , friend Peter ? ''
cried a voice across the street as Peter was drawing in his head .
`` Look out here , Peter ! ''
Peter looked , and saw his old partner , Mr. John Brown , on the opposite sidewalk , portly and comfortable , with his furred cloak thrown open , disclosing a handsome surtout beneath .
His voice had directed the attention of the whole town to Peter Goldthwaite 's window , and to the dusty scarecrow which appeared at it .
`` I say , Peter ! ''
cried Mr. Brown , again ; `` what the devil are you about there , that I hear such a racket whenever I pass by ?
You are repairing the old house , I suppose , making a new one of it ?
Eh ? ''
`` Too late for that , I am afraid , Mr. Brown , '' replied Peter .
`` If I make it new , it will be new inside and out , from the cellar upward . ''
`` Had not you better let me take the job ? ''
said Mr. Brown , significantly .
`` Not yet , '' answered Peter , hastily shutting the window ; for ever since he had been in search of the treasure he hated to have people stare at him .
As he drew back , ashamed of his outward poverty , yet proud of the secret wealth within his grasp , a haughty smile shone out on Peter 's visage with precisely the effect of the dim sunbeams in the squalid chamber .
He endeavored to assume such a mien as his ancestor had probably worn when he gloried in the building of a strong house for a home to many generations of his posterity .
But the chamber was very dark to his snow-dazzled eyes , and very dismal , too , in contrast with the living scene that he had just looked upon .
His brief glimpse into the street had given him a forcible impression of the manner in which the world kept itself cheerful and prosperous by social pleasures and an intercourse of business , while he in seclusion was pursuing an object that might possibly be a phantasm by a method which most people would call madness .
It is one great advantage of a gregarious mode of life that each person rectifies his mind by other minds and squares his conduct to that of his neighbors , so as seldom to be lost in eccentricity .
Peter Goldthwaite had exposed himself to this influence by merely looking out of the window .
For a while he doubted whether there were any hidden chest of gold , and in that case whether it was so exceedingly wise to tear the house down only to be convinced of its non-existence .
But this was momentary .
Peter the Destroyer resumed the task which Fate had assigned him , nor faltered again till it was accomplished .
In the course of his search he met with many things that are usually found in the ruins of an old house , and also with some that are not .
What seemed most to the purpose was a rusty key which had been thrust into a chink of the wall , with a wooden label appended to the handle , bearing the initials `` P.G. '' Another singular discovery was that of a bottle of wine walled up in an old oven .
A tradition ran in the family that Peter 's grandfather , a jovial officer in the old French war , had set aside many dozens of the precious liquor for the benefit of topers then unborn .
Peter needed no cordial to sustain his hopes , and therefore kept the wine to gladden his success .
Many half-pence did he pick up that had been lost through the cracks of the floor , and some few Spanish coins , and the half of a broken sixpence which had doubtless been a love-token .
There was likewise a silver coronation medal of George III .
But old Peter Goldthwaite 's strong-box fled from one dark corner to another , or otherwise eluded the second Peter 's clutches till , should he seek much farther , he must burrow into the earth .
We will not follow him in his triumphant progress step by step .
Suffice it that Peter worked like a steam-engine and finished in that one winter the job which all the former inhabitants of the house , with time and the elements to aid them , had only half done in a century .
Except the kitchen , every room and chamber was now gutted .
The house was nothing but a shell , the apparition of a house , as unreal as the painted edifices of a theatre .
It was like the perfect rind of a great cheese in which a mouse had dwelt and nibbled till it was a cheese no more .
And Peter was the mouse .
What Peter had torn down , Tabitha had burnt up , for she wisely considered that without a house they should need no wood to warm it , and therefore economy was nonsense .
Thus the whole house might be said to have dissolved in smoke and flown up among the clouds through the great black flue of the kitchen chimney .
It was an admirable parallel to the feat of the man who jumped down his own throat .
On the night between the last day of winter and the first of spring every chink and cranny had been ransacked except within the precincts of the kitchen .
This fated evening was an ugly one .
A snow-storm had set in some hours before , and was still driven and tossed about the atmosphere by a real hurricane which fought against the house as if the prince of the air in person were putting the final stroke to Peter 's labors .
The framework being so much weakened and the inward props removed , it would have been no marvel if in some stronger wrestle of the blast the rotten walls of the edifice and all the peaked roofs had come crashing down upon the owner 's head .
He , however , was careless of the peril , but as wild and restless as the night itself , or as the flame that quivered up the chimney at each roar of the tempestuous wind .
`` The wine , Tabitha , '' he cried -- `` my grandfather 's rich old wine !
We will drink it now . ''
Tabitha arose from her smoke-blackened bench in the chimney-corner and placed the bottle before Peter , close beside the old brass lamp which had likewise been the prize of his researches .
Peter held it before his eyes , and , looking through the liquid medium , beheld the kitchen illuminated with a golden glory which also enveloped Tabitha and gilded her silver hair and converted her mean garments into robes of queenly splendor .
It reminded him of his golden dream .
`` Mr. Peter , '' remarked Tabitha , `` must the wine be drunk before the money is found ? ''
`` The money is found ! ''
exclaimed Peter , with a sort of fierceness .
`` The chest is within my reach ; I will not sleep till I have turned this key in the rusty lock .
But first of all let us drink . ''
There being no corkscrew in the house , he smote the neck of the bottle with old Peter Goldthwaite 's rusty key , and decapitated the sealed cork at a single blow .
He then filled two little china teacups which Tabitha had brought from the cupboard .
So clear and brilliant was this aged wine that it shone within the cups and rendered the sprig of scarlet flowers at the bottom of each more distinctly visible than when there had been no wine there .
Its rich and delicate perfume wasted itself round the kitchen .
`` Drink , Tabitha ! ''
cried Peter .
`` Blessings on the honest old fellow who set aside this good liquor for you and me !
And here 's to Peter Goldthwaite 's memory ! ''
`` And good cause have we to remember him , '' quoth Tabitha as she drank .
How many years , and through what changes of fortune and various calamity , had that bottle hoarded up its effervescent joy , to be quaffed at last by two such boon-companions !
A portion of the happiness of a former age had been kept for them , and was now set free in a crowd of rejoicing visions to sport amid the storm and desolation of the present time .
Until they have finished the bottle we must turn our eyes elsewhere .
It so chanced that on this stormy night Mr. John Brown found himself ill at ease in his wire-cushioned arm-chair by the glowing grate of anthracite which heated his handsome parlor .
He was naturally a good sort of a man , and kind and pitiful whenever the misfortunes of others happened to reach his heart through the padded vest of his own prosperity .
This evening he had thought much about his old partner , Peter Goldthwaite , his strange vagaries and continual ill-luck , the poverty of his dwelling at Mr. Brown 's last visit , and Peter 's crazed and haggard aspect when he had talked with him at the window .
`` Poor fellow ! ''
thought Mr. John Brown .
`` Poor crack-brained Peter Goldthwaite !
For old acquaintance ' sake I ought to have taken care that he was comfortable this rough winter . ''
These feelings grew so powerful that , in spite of the inclement weather , he resolved to visit Peter Goldthwaite immediately .
The strength of the impulse was really singular .
Every shriek of the blast seemed a summons , or would have seemed so had Mr. Brown been accustomed to hear the echoes of his own fancy in the wind .
Much amazed at such active benevolence , he huddled himself in his cloak , muffled his throat and ears in comforters and handkerchiefs , and , thus fortified , bade defiance to the tempest .
But the powers of the air had rather the best of the battle .
Mr. Brown was just weathering the corner by Peter Goldthwaite 's house when the hurricane caught him off his feet , tossed him face downward into a snow-bank and proceeded to bury his protuberant part beneath fresh drifts .
There seemed little hope of his reappearance earlier than the next thaw .
At the same moment his hat was snatched away and whirled aloft into some far-distant region whence no tidings have as yet returned .
Nevertheless Mr. Brown contrived to burrow a passage through the snow-drift , and with his bare head bent against the storm floundered onward to Peter 's door .
There was such a creaking and groaning and rattling , and such an ominous shaking , throughout the crazy edifice that the loudest rap would have been inaudible to those within .
He therefore entered without ceremony , and groped his way to the kitchen .
His intrusion even there was unnoticed .
Peter and Tabitha stood with their backs to the door , stooping over a large chest which apparently they had just dragged from a cavity or concealed closet on the left side of the chimney .
By the lamp in the old woman 's hand Mr. Brown saw that the chest was barred and clamped with iron , strengthened with iron plates and studded with iron nails , so as to be a fit receptacle in which the wealth of one century might be hoarded up for the wants of another .
Peter Goldthwaite was inserting a key into the lock .
`` Oh , Tabitha , '' cried he , with tremulous rapture , `` how shall I endure the effulgence ?
The gold !
-- the bright , bright gold !
Methinks I can remember my last glance at it just as the iron-plated lid fell down .
And ever since , being seventy years , it has been blazing in secret and gathering its splendor against this glorious moment .
It will flash upon us like the noonday sun . ''
`` Then shade your eyes , Mr. Peter ! ''
said Tabitha , with somewhat less patience than usual .
`` But , for mercy 's sake , do turn the key ! ''
And with a strong effort of both hands Peter did force the rusty key through the intricacies of the rusty lock .
Mr. Brown , in the mean time , had drawn near and thrust his eager visage between those of the other two at the instant that Peter threw up the lid .
No sudden blaze illuminated the kitchen .
`` What 's here ? ''
exclaimed Tabitha , adjusting her spectacles and holding the lamp over the open chest .
`` Old Peter Goldthwaite 's hoard of old rags ! ''
`` Pretty much so , Tabby , '' said Mr. Brown , lifting a handful of the treasure .
Oh what a ghost of dead and buried wealth had Peter Goldthwaite raised to scare himself out of his scanty wits withal !
Here was the semblance of an incalculable sum , enough to purchase the whole town and build every street anew , but which , vast as it was , no sane man would have given a solid sixpence for .
What , then , in sober earnest , were the delusive treasures of the chest ?
Why , here were old provincial bills of credit and treasury notes and bills of land-banks , and all other bubbles of the sort , from the first issue -- above a century and a half ago -- down nearly to the Revolution .
Bills of a thousand pounds were intermixed with parchment pennies , and worth no more than they .
`` And this , then , is old Peter Goldthwaite 's treasure ! ''
said John Brown .
`` Your namesake , Peter , was something like yourself ; and when the provincial currency had depreciated fifty or seventy-five per cent , he bought it up in expectation of a rise .
I have heard my grandfather say that old Peter gave his father a mortgage of this very house and land to raise cash for his silly project .
But the currency kept sinking till nobody would take it as a gift , and there was old Peter Goldthwaite , like Peter the second , with thousands in his strong-box and hardly a coat to his back .
He went mad upon the strength of it .
But never mind , Peter ; it is just the sort of capital for building castles in the air . ''
`` The house will be down about our ears , '' cried Tabitha as the wind shook it with increasing violence .
`` Let it fall , '' said Peter , folding his arms , as he seated himself upon the chest .
`` No , no , my old friend Peter ! ''
said John Brown .
`` I have house-room for you and Tabby , and a safe vault for the chest of treasure .
To-morrow we will try to come to an agreement about the sale of this old house ; real estate is well up , and I could afford you a pretty handsome price . ''
`` And I , '' observed Peter Goldthwaite , with reviving spirits , `` have a plan for laying out the cash to great advantage . ''
`` Why , as to that , '' muttered John Brown to himself , `` we must apply to the next court for a guardian to take care of the solid cash ; and if Peter insists upon speculating , he may do it to his heart 's content with old Peter Goldthwaite 's treasure . ''
CHIPPINGS WITH A CHISEL .
Passing a summer several years since at Edgartown , on the island of Martha 's Vineyard , I became acquainted with a certain carver of tombstones who had travelled and voyaged thither from the interior of Massachusetts in search of professional employment .
The speculation had turned out so successful that my friend expected to transmute slate and marble into silver and gold to the amount of at least a thousand dollars during the few months of his sojourn at Nantucket and the Vineyard .
The secluded life and the simple and primitive spirit which still characterizes the inhabitants of those islands , especially of Martha 's Vineyard , insure their dead friends a longer and dearer remembrance than the daily novelty and revolving bustle of the world can elsewhere afford to beings of the past .
Yet , while every family is anxious to erect a memorial to its departed members , the untainted breath of Ocean bestows such health and length of days upon the people of the isles as would cause a melancholy dearth of business to a resident artist in that line .
His own monument , recording his decease by starvation , would probably be an early specimen of his skill .
Gravestones , therefore , have generally been an article of imported merchandise .
In my walks through the burial-ground of Edgartown -- where the dead have lain so long that the soil , once enriched by their decay , has returned to its original barrenness -- in that ancient burial-ground I noticed much variety of monumental sculpture .
The elder stones , dated a century back or more , have borders elaborately carved with flowers and are adorned with a multiplicity of death 's - heads , crossbones , scythes , hour-glasses , and other lugubrious emblems of mortality , with here and there a winged cherub to direct the mourner 's spirit upward .
These productions of Gothic taste must have been quite beyond the colonial skill of the day , and were probably carved in London and brought across the ocean to commemorate the defunct worthies of this lonely isle .
The more recent monuments are mere slabs of slate in the ordinary style , without any superfluous flourishes to set off the bald inscriptions .
But others -- and those far the most impressive both to my taste and feelings -- were roughly hewn from the gray rocks of the island , evidently by the unskilled hands of surviving friends and relatives .
On some there were merely the initials of a name ; some were inscribed with misspelt prose or rhyme , in deep letters which the moss and wintry rain of many years had not been able to obliterate .
These , these were graves where loved ones slept .
It is an old theme of satire , the falsehood and vanity of monumental eulogies ; but when affection and sorrow grave the letters with their own painful labor , then we may be sure that they copy from the record on their hearts .
My acquaintance the sculptor -- he may share that title with Greenough , since the dauber of signs is a painter as well as Raphael -- had found a ready market for all his blank slabs of marble and full occupation in lettering and ornamenting them .
He was an elderly man , a descendant of the old Puritan family of Wigglesworth , with a certain simplicity and singleness both of heart and mind which , methinks , is more rarely found among us Yankees than in any other community of people .
In spite of his gray head and wrinkled brow , he was quite like a child in all matters save what had some reference to his own business ; he seemed , unless my fancy misled me , to view mankind in no other relation than as people in want of tombstones , and his literary attainments evidently comprehended very little either of prose of poetry which had not at one time or other been inscribed on slate or marble .
His sole task and office among the immortal pilgrims of the tomb -- the duty for which Providence had sent the old man into the world , as it were with a chisel in his hand -- was to label the dead bodies , lest their names should be forgotten at the resurrection .
Yet he had not failed , within a narrow scope , to gather a few sprigs of earthly , and more than earthly , wisdom -- the harvest of many a grave .
And , lugubrious as his calling might appear , he was as cheerful an old soul as health and integrity and lack of care could make him , and used to set to work upon one sorrowful inscription or another with that sort of spirit which impels a man to sing at his labor .
On the whole , I found Mr. Wigglesworth an entertaining , and often instructive , if not an interesting , character ; and , partly for the charm of his society , and still more because his work has an invariable attraction for `` man that is born of woman , '' I was accustomed to spend some hours a day at his workshop .
The quaintness of his remarks and their not infrequent truth -- a truth condensed and pointed by the limited sphere of his view -- gave a raciness to his talk which mere worldliness and general cultivation would at once have destroyed .
Sometimes we would discuss the respective merits of the various qualities of marble , numerous slabs of which were resting against the walls of the shop , or sometimes an hour or two would pass quietly without a word on either side while I watched how neatly his chisel struck out letter after letter of the names of the Nortons , the Mayhews , the Luces , the Daggets , and other immemorial families of the Vineyard .
Often with an artist 's pride the good old sculptor would speak of favorite productions of his skill which were scattered throughout the village graveyards of New England .
But my chief and most instructive amusement was to witness his interviews with his customers , who held interminable consultations about the form and fashion of the desired monuments , the buried excellence to be commemorated , the anguish to be expressed , and finally the lowest price in dollars and cents for which a marble transcript of their feelings might be obtained .
Really , my mind received many fresh ideas which perhaps may remain in it even longer than Mr. Wigglesworth 's hardest marble will retain the deepest strokes of his chisel .
An elderly lady came to bespeak a monument for her first love , who had been killed by a whale in the Pacific Ocean no less than forty years before .
It was singular that so strong an impression of early feeling should have survived through the changes of her subsequent life , in the course of which she had been a wife and a mother , and , so far as I could judge , a comfortable and happy woman .
Reflecting within myself , it appeared to me that this lifelong sorrow -- as , in all good faith , she deemed it -- was one of the most fortunate circumstances of her history .
It had given an ideality to her mind ; it had kept her purer and less earthy than she would otherwise have been by drawing a portion of her sympathies apart from earth .
Amid the throng of enjoyments and the pressure of worldly care and all the warm materialism of this life she had communed with a vision , and had been the better for such intercourse .
Faithful to the husband of her maturity , and loving him with a far more real affection than she ever could have felt for this dream of her girlhood , there had still been an imaginative faith to the ocean-buried ; so that an ordinary character had thus been elevated and refined .
Her sighs had been the breath of Heaven to her soul .
The good lady earnestly desired that the proposed monument should be ornamented with a carved border of marine plants interwined with twisted sea-shells , such as were probably waving over her lover 's skeleton or strewn around it in the far depths of the Pacific .
But , Mr. Wigglesworth 's chisel being inadequate to the task , she was forced to content herself with a rose hanging its head from a broken stem .
After her departure I remarked that the symbol was none of the most apt .
`` And yet , '' said my friend the sculptor , embodying in this image the thoughts that had been passing through my own mind , `` that broken rose has shed its sweet smell through forty years of the good woman 's life . ''
It was seldom that I could find such pleasant food for contemplation as in the above instance .
None of the applicants , I think , affected me more disagreeably than an old man who came , with his fourth wife hanging on his arm , to bespeak gravestones for the three former occupants of his marriage-bed .
I watched with some anxiety to see whether his remembrance of either were more affectionate than of the other two , but could discover no symptom of the kind .
The three monuments were all to be of the same material and form , and each decorated in bas-relief with two weeping willows , one of these sympathetic trees bending over its fellow , which was to be broken in the midst and rest upon a sepulchral urn .
This , indeed , was Mr. Wigglesworth 's standing emblem of conjugal bereavement .
I shuddered at the gray polygamist who had so utterly lost the holy sense of individuality in wedlock that methought he was fain to reckon upon his fingers how many women who had once slept by his side were now sleeping in their graves .
There was even -- if I wrong him , it is no great matter -- a glance sidelong at his living spouse , as if he were inclined to drive a thriftier bargain by bespeaking four gravestones in a lot .
I was better pleased with a rough old whaling-captain who gave directions for a broad marble slab divided into two compartments , one of which was to contain an epitaph on his deceased wife and the other to be left vacant till death should engrave his own name there .
As is frequently the case among the whalers of Martha 's Vineyard , so much of this storm-beaten widower 's life had been tossed away on distant seas that out of twenty years of matrimony he had spent scarce three , and those at scattered intervals , beneath his own roof .
Thus the wife of his youth , though she died in his and her declining age , retained the bridal dewdrops fresh around her memory .
My observations gave me the idea , and Mr. Wigglesworth confirmed it , that husbands were more faithful in setting up memorials to their dead wives than widows to their dead husbands .
I was not ill-natured enough to fancy that women less than men feel so sure of their own constancy as to be willing to give a pledge of it in marble .
It is more probably the fact that , while men are able to reflect upon their lost companions as remembrances apart from themselves , women , on the other hand , are conscious that a portion of their being has gone with the departed whithersoever he has gone .
Soul clings to soul , the living dust has a sympathy with the dust of the grave ; and by the very strength of that sympathy the wife of the dead shrinks the more sensitively from reminding the world of its existence .
The link is already strong enough ; it needs no visible symbol .
And , though a shadow walks ever by her side and the touch of a chill hand is on her bosom , yet life , and perchance its natural yearnings , may still be warm within her and inspire her with new hopes of happiness .
Then would she mark out the grave the scent of which would be perceptible on the pillow of the second bridal ?
No , but rather level its green mound with the surrounding earth , as if , when she dug up again her buried heart , the spot had ceased to be a grave .
Yet , in spite of these sentimentalities , I was prodigiously amused by an incident of which I had not the good-fortune to be a witness , but which Mr. Wigglesworth related with considerable humor .
A gentlewoman of the town , receiving news of her husband 's loss at sea , had bespoken a handsome slab of marble , and came daily to watch the progress of my friend 's chisel .
One afternoon , when the good lady and the sculptor were in the very midst of the epitaph -- which the departed spirit might have been greatly comforted to read -- who should walk into the workshop but the deceased himself , in substance as well as spirit !
He had been picked up at sea , and stood in no present need of tombstone or epitaph .
`` And how , '' inquired I , `` did his wife bear the shock of joyful surprise ? ''
`` Why , '' said the old man , deepening the grin of a death 's - head on which his chisel was just then employed , `` I really felt for the poor woman ; it was one of my best pieces of marble -- and to be thrown away on a living man ! ''
A comely woman with a pretty rosebud of a daughter came to select a gravestone for a twin-daughter , who had died a month before .
I was impressed with the different nature of their feelings for the dead .
The mother was calm and woefully resigned , fully conscious of her loss , as of a treasure which she had not always possessed , and therefore had been aware that it might be taken from her ; but the daughter evidently had no real knowledge of what Death 's doings were .
Her thoughts knew , but not her heart .
It seemed to me that by the print and pressure which the dead sister had left upon the survivor 's spirit her feelings were almost the same as if she still stood side by side and arm in arm with the departed , looking at the slabs of marble , and once or twice she glanced around with a sunny smile , which , as its sister-smile had faded for ever , soon grew confusedly overshadowed .
Perchance her consciousness was truer than her reflection ; perchance her dead sister was a closer companion than in life .
The mother and daughter talked a long while with Mr. Wigglesworth about a suitable epitaph , and finally chose an ordinary verse of ill-matched rhymes which had already been inscribed upon innumerable tombstones .
But when we ridicule the triteness of monumental verses , we forget that Sorrow reads far deeper in them than we can , and finds a profound and individual purport in what seems so vague and inexpressive unless interpreted by her .
She makes the epitaph anew , though the selfsame words may have served for a thousand graves .
`` And yet , '' said I afterward to Mr. Wigglesworth , `` they might have made a better choice than this .
While you were discussing the subject I was struck by at least a dozen simple and natural expressions from the lips of both mother and daughter .
One of these would have formed an inscription equally original and appropriate . ''
`` No , no ! ''
replied the sculptor , shaking his head ; `` there is a good deal of comfort to be gathered from these little old scraps of poetry , and so I always recommend them in preference to any new-fangled ones .
And somehow they seem to stretch to suit a great grief and shrink to fit a small one . ''
It was not seldom that ludicrous images were excited by what took place between Mr. Wigglesworth and his customers .
A shrewd gentlewoman who kept a tavern in the town was anxious to obtain two or three gravestones for the deceased members of her family , and to pay for these solemn commodities by taking the sculptor to board .
Hereupon a fantasy arose in my mind of good Mr. Wigglesworth sitting down to dinner at a broad , flat tombstone carving one of his own plump little marble cherubs , gnawing a pair of crossbones and drinking out of a hollow death 's - head or perhaps a lachrymatory vase or sepulchral urn , while his hostess 's dead children waited on him at the ghastly banquet .
On communicating this nonsensical picture to the old man he laughed heartily and pronounced my humor to be of the right sort .
`` I have lived at such a table all my days , '' said he , `` and eaten no small quantity of slate and marble . ''
`` Hard fare , '' rejoined I , smiling , `` but you seemed to have found it excellent of digestion , too . ''
A man of fifty or thereabouts with a harsh , unpleasant countenance ordered a stone for the grave of his bitter enemy , with whom he had waged warfare half a lifetime , to their mutual misery and ruin .
The secret of this phenomenon was that hatred had become the sustenance and enjoyment of the poor wretch 's soul ; it had supplied the place of all kindly affections ; it had been really a bond of sympathy between himself and the man who shared the passion ; and when its object died , the unappeasable foe was the only mourner for the dead .
He expressed a purpose of being buried side by side with his enemy .
`` I doubt whether their dust will mingle , '' remarked the old sculptor to me ; for often there was an earthliness in his conceptions .
`` Oh yes , '' replied I , who had mused long upon the incident ; `` and when they rise again , these bitter foes may find themselves dear friends .
Methinks what they mistook for hatred was but love under a mask . ''
A gentleman of antiquarian propensities provided a memorial for an Indian of Chabbiquidick -- one of the few of untainted blood remaining in that region , and said to be a hereditary chieftain descended from the sachem who welcomed Governor Mayhew to the Vineyard .
Mr. Wiggles-worth exerted his best skill to carve a broken bow and scattered sheaf of arrows in memory of the hunters and warriors whose race was ended here , but he likewise sculptured a cherub , to denote that the poor Indian had shared the Christian 's hope of immortality .
`` Why , '' observed I , taking a perverse view of the winged boy and the bow and arrows , `` it looks more like Cupid 's tomb than an Indian chief 's . ''
`` You talk nonsense , '' said the sculptor , with the offended pride of art .
He then added with his usual good-nature , `` How can Cupid die when there are such pretty maidens in the Vineyard ? ''
`` Very true , '' answered I ; and for the rest of the day I thought of other matters than tombstones .
At our next meeting I found him chiselling an open book upon a marble headstone , and concluded that it was meant to express the erudition of some black-letter clergyman of the Cotton Mather school .
It turned out , however , to be emblematical of the scriptural knowledge of an old woman who had never read anything but her Bible , and the monument was a tribute to her piety and good works from the orthodox church of which she had been a member .
In strange contrast with this Christian woman 's memorial was that of an infidel whose gravestone , by his own direction , bore an avowal of his belief that the spirit within him would be extinguished like a flame , and that the nothingness whence he sprang would receive him again .
Mr. Wigglesworth consulted me as to the propriety of enabling a dead man 's dust to utter this dreadful creed .
`` If I thought , '' said he , `` that a single mortal would read the inscription without a shudder , my chisel should never cut a letter of it .
But when the grave speaks such falsehoods , the soul of man will know the truth by its own horror . ''
`` So it will , '' said I , struck by the idea .
`` The poor infidel may strive to preach blasphemies from his grave , but it will be only another method of impressing the soul with a consciousness of immortality . ''
There was an old man by the name of Norton , noted throughout the island for his great wealth , which he had accumulated by the exercise of strong and shrewd faculties combined with a most penurious disposition .
This wretched miser , conscious that he had not a friend to be mindful of him in his grave , had himself taken the needful precautions for posthumous remembrance by bespeaking an immense slab of white marble with a long epitaph in raised letters , the whole to be as magnificent as Mr. Wigglesworth 's skill could make it .
There was something very characteristic in this contrivance to have his money 's worth even from his own tombstone , which , indeed , afforded him more enjoyment in the few months that he lived thereafter than it probably will in a whole century , now that it is laid over his bones .
This incident reminds me of a young girl -- a pale , slender , feeble creature most unlike the other rosy and healthful damsels of the Vineyard , amid whose brightness she was fading away .
Day after day did the poor maiden come to the sculptor 's shop and pass from one piece of marble to another , till at last she pencilled her name upon a slender slab which , I think , was of a more spotless white than all the rest .
I saw her no more , but soon afterward found Mr. Wigglesworth cutting her virgin-name into the stone which she had chosen .
`` She is dead , poor girl ! ''
said he , interrupting the tune which he was whistling , `` and she chose a good piece of stuff for her headstone .
Now , which of these slabs would you like best to see your own name upon ? ''
`` Why , to tell you the truth , my good Mr. Wigglesworth , '' replied I , after a moment 's pause , for the abruptness of the question had somewhat startled me -- `` to be quite sincere with you , I care little or nothing about a stone for my own grave , and am somewhat inclined to scepticism as to the propriety of erecting monuments at all over the dust that once was human .
The weight of these heavy marbles , though unfelt by the dead corpse or the enfranchised soul , presses drearily upon the spirit of the survivor and causes him to connect the idea of death with the dungeon-like imprisonment of the tomb , instead of with the freedom of the skies .
Every gravestone that you ever made is the visible symbol of a mistaken system .
Our thoughts should soar upward with the butterfly , not linger with the exuvi that confined him .
In truth and reason , neither those whom we call the living , and still less the departed , have anything to do with the grave . ''
`` I never heard anything so heathenish , '' said Mr. Wigglesworth , perplexed and displeased at sentiments which controverted all his notions and feelings and implied the utter waste , and worse , of his whole life 's labor .
`` Would you forget your dead friends the moment they are under the sod ? ''
`` They are not under the sod , '' I rejoined ; `` then why should I mark the spot where there is no treasure hidden ?
Forget them ?
No ; but , to remember them aright , I would forget what they have cast off .
And to gain the truer conception of death I would forget the grave . ''
But still the good old sculptor murmured , and stumbled , as it were , over the gravestones amid which he had walked through life .
Whether he were right or wrong , I had grown the wiser from our companionship and from my observations of nature and character as displayed by those who came , with their old griefs or their new ones , to get them recorded upon his slabs of marble .
And yet with my gain of wisdom I had likewise gained perplexity ; for there was a strange doubt in my mind whether the dark shadowing of this life , the sorrows and regrets , have not as much real comfort in them -- leaving religious influences out of the question -- as what we term life 's joys .
THE SHAKER BRIDAL .
One day , in the sick-chamber of Father Ephraim , who had been forty years the presiding elder over the Shaker settlement at Goshen , there was an assemblage of several of the chief men of the sect .
Individuals had come from the rich establishment at Lebanon , from Canterbury , Harvard and Alfred , and from all the other localities where this strange people have fertilized the rugged hills of New England by their systematic industry .
An elder was likewise there who had made a pilgrimage of a thousand miles from a village of the faithful in Kentucky to visit his spiritual kindred the children of the sainted Mother Ann .
He had partaken of the homely abundance of their tables , had quaffed the far-famed Shaker cider , and had joined in the sacred dance every step of which is believed to alienate the enthusiast from earth and bear him onward to heavenly purity and bliss .
His brethren of the North had now courteously invited him to be present on an occasion when the concurrence of every eminent member of their community was peculiarly desirable .
The venerable Father Ephraim sat in his easy-chair , not only hoary-headed and infirm with age , but worn down by a lingering disease which it was evident would very soon transfer his patriarchal staff to other hands .
At his footstool stood a man and woman , both clad in the Shaker garb .
`` My brethren , '' said Father Ephraim to the surrounding elders , feebly exerting himself to utter these few words , `` here are the son and daughter to whom I would commit the trust of which Providence is about to lighten my weary shoulders .
Read their faces , I pray you , and say whether the inward movement of the spirit hath guided my choice aright . ''
Accordingly , each elder looked at the two candidates with a most scrutinizing gaze .
The man -- whose name was Adam Colburn -- had a face sunburnt with labor in the fields , yet intelligent , thoughtful and traced with cares enough for a whole lifetime , though he had barely reached middle age .
There was something severe in his aspect and a rigidity throughout his person -- characteristics that caused him generally to be taken for a schoolmaster ; which vocation , in fact , he had formerly exercised for several years .
The woman , Martha Pierson , was somewhat above thirty , thin and pale , as a Shaker sister almost invariably is , and not entirely free from that corpse-like appearance which the garb of the sisterhood is so well calculated to impart .
`` This pair are still in the summer of their years , '' observed the elder from Harvard , a shrewd old man .
`` I would like better to see the hoar-frost of autumn on their heads .
Methinks , also , they will be exposed to peculiar temptations on account of the carnal desires which have heretofore subsisted between them . ''
`` Nay , brother , '' said the elder from Canterbury ; `` the hoar-frost and the black frost hath done its work on Brother Adam and Sister Martha , even as we sometimes discern its traces in our cornfields while they are yet green .
And why should we question the wisdom of our venerable Father 's purpose , although this pair in their early youth have loved one another as the world 's people love ?
Are there not many brethren and sisters among us who have lived long together in wedlock , yet , adopting our faith , find their hearts purified from all but spiritual affection ? ''
Whether or no the early loves of Adam and Martha had rendered it inexpedient that they should now preside together over a Shaker village , it was certainly most singular that such should be the final result of many warm and tender hopes .
Children of neighboring families , their affection was older even than their school-days ; it seemed an innate principle interfused among all their sentiments and feelings , and not so much a distinct remembrance as connected with their whole volume of remembrances .
But just as they reached a proper age for their union misfortunes had fallen heavily on both and made it necessary that they should resort to personal labor for a bare subsistence .
Even under these circumstances Martha Pierson would probably have consented to unite her fate with Adam Colburn 's , and , secure of the bliss of mutual love , would patiently have awaited the less important gifts of Fortune .
But Adam , being of a calm and cautious character , was loth to relinquish the advantages which a single man possesses for raising himself in the world .
Year after year , therefore , their marriage had been deferred .
Adam Colburn had followed many vocations , had travelled far and seen much of the world and of life .
Martha had earned her bread sometimes as a sempstress , sometimes as help to a farmer 's wife , sometimes as schoolmistress of the village children , sometimes as a nurse or watcher of the sick , thus acquiring a varied experience the ultimate use of which she little anticipated .
But nothing had gone prosperously with either of the lovers ; at no subsequent moment would matrimony have been so prudent a measure as when they had first parted , in the opening bloom of life , to seek a better fortune .
Still , they had held fast their mutual faith .
Martha might have been the wife of a man who sat among the senators of his native State , and Adam could have won the hand , as he had unintentionally won the heart , of a rich and comely widow .
But neither of them desired good-fortune save to share it with the other .
At length that calm despair which occurs only in a strong and somewhat stubborn character and yields to no second spring of hope settled down on the spirit of Adam Colburn .
He sought an interview with Martha and proposed that they should join the Society of Shakers .
The converts of this sect are oftener driven within its hospitable gates by worldly misfortune than drawn thither by fanaticism , and are received without inquisition as to their motives .
Martha , faithful still , had placed her hand in that of her lover and accompanied him to the Shaker village .
Here the natural capacity of each , cultivated and strengthened by the difficulties of their previous lives , had soon gained them an important rank in the society , whose members are generally below the ordinary standard of intelligence .
Their faith and feelings had in some degree become assimilated to those of their fellow-worshippers .
Adam Colburn gradually acquired reputation not only in the management of the temporal affairs of the society , but as a clear and efficient preacher of their doctrines .
Martha was not less distinguished in the duties proper to her sex .
Finally , when the infirmities of Father Ephraim had admonished him to seek a successor in his patriarchal office , he thought of Adam and Martha , and proposed to renew in their persons the primitive form of Shaker government as established by Mother Ann .
They were to be the father and mother of the village .
The simple ceremony which would constitute them such was now to be performed .
`` Son Adam and daughter Martha , '' said the venerable Father Ephraim , fixing his aged eyes piercingly upon them , `` if ye can conscientiously undertake this charge , speak , that the brethren may not doubt of your fitness . ''
`` Father , '' replied Adam , speaking with the calmness of his character , `` I came to your village a disappointed man , weary of the world , worn out with continual trouble , seeking only a security against evil fortune , as I had no hope of good .
Even my wishes of worldly success were almost dead within me .
I came hither as a man might come to a tomb willing to lie down in its gloom and coldness for the sake of its peace and quiet .
There was but one earthly affection in my breast , and it had grown calmer since my youth ; so that I was satisfied to bring Martha to be my sister in our new abode .
We are brother and sister , nor would I have it otherwise .
And in this peaceful village I have found all that I hope for -- all that I desire .
I will strive with my best strength for the spiritual and temporal good of our community .
My conscience is not doubtful in this matter .
I am ready to receive the trust . ''
`` Thou hast spoken well , son Adam , '' said the father .
`` God will bless thee in the office which I am about to resign . ''
`` But our sister , '' observed the elder from Harvard .
`` Hath she not likewise a gift to declare her sentiments ? ''
Martha started and moved her lips as if she would have made a formal reply to this appeal .
But , had she attempted it , perhaps the old recollections , the long-repressed feelings of childhood , youth and womanhood , might have gushed from her heart in words that it would have been profanation to utter there .
`` Adam has spoken , '' said she , hurriedly ; `` his sentiments are likewise mine . ''
But while speaking these few words Martha grew so pale that she looked fitter to be laid in her coffin than to stand in the presence of Father Ephraim and the elders ; she shuddered , also , as if there were something awful or horrible in her situation and destiny .
It required , indeed , a more than feminine strength of nerve to sustain the fixed observance of men so exalted and famous throughout the Beet as these were .
They had overcome their natural sympathy with human frailties and affections .
One , when he joined the society , had brought with him his wife and children , but never from that hour had spoken a fond word to the former or taken his best-loved child upon his knee .
Another , whose family refused to follow him , had been enabled -- such was his gift of holy fortitude -- to leave them to the mercy of the world .
The youngest of the elders , a man of about fifty , had been bred from infancy in a Shaker village , and was said never to have clasped a woman 's hand in his own , and to have no conception of a closer tie than the cold fraternal one of the sect .
Old Father Ephraim was the most awful character of all .
In his youth he had been a dissolute libertine , but was converted by Mother Ann herself , and had partaken of the wild fanaticism of the early Shakers .
Tradition whispered at the firesides of the village that Mother Ann had been compelled to sear his heart of flesh with a red-hot iron before it could be purified from earthly passions .
However that might be , poor Martha had a woman 's heart , and a tender one , and it quailed within her as she looked round at those strange old men , and from them to the calm features of Adam Colburn .
But , perceiving that the elders eyed her doubtfully , she gasped for breath and again spoke .
`` With what strength is left me by my many troubles , '' said she , `` I am ready to undertake this charge , and to do my best in it . ''
`` My children , join your hands , '' said Father Ephraim .
They did so .
The elders stood up around , and the father feebly raised himself to a more erect position , but continued sitting in his great chair .
`` I have bidden you to join your hands , '' said he , `` not in earthly affection , for ye have cast off its chains for ever , but as brother and sister in spiritual love and helpers of one another in your allotted task .
Teach unto others the faith which ye have received .
Open wide your gates -- I deliver you the keys thereof -- open them wide to all who will give up the iniquities of the world and come hither to lead lives of purity and peace .
Receive the weary ones who have known the vanity of earth ; receive the little children , that they may never learn that miserable lesson .
And a blessing be upon your labors ; so that the time may hasten on when the mission of Mother Ann shall have wrought its full effect , when children shall no more be born and die , and the last survivor of mortal race -- some old and weary man like me -- shall see the sun go down nevermore to rise on a world of sin and sorrow . ''
The aged father sank back exhausted , and the surrounding elders deemed , with good reason , that the hour was come when the new heads of the village must enter on their patriarchal duties .
In their attention to Father Ephraim their eyes were turned from Martha Pierson , who grew paler and paler , unnoticed even by Adam Colburn .
He , indeed , had withdrawn his hand from hers and folded his arms with a sense of satisfied ambition .
But paler and paler grew Martha by his side , till , like a corpse in its burial-clothes , she sank down at the feet of her early lover ; for , after many trials firmly borne , her heart could endure the weight of its desolate agony no longer .
NIGHT-SKETCHES , BENEATH AN UMBRELLA .
Pleasant is a rainy winter 's day within-doors .
The best study for such a day -- or the best amusement : call it what you will -- is a book of travels describing scenes the most unlike that sombre one which is mistily presented through the windows .
I have experienced that Fancy is then most successful in imparting distinct shapes and vivid colors to the objects which the author has spread upon his page , and that his words become magic spells to summon up a thousand varied pictures .
Strange landscapes glimmer through the familiar walls of the room , and outlandish figures thrust themselves almost within the sacred precincts of the hearth .
Small as my chamber is , it has space enough to contain the ocean-like circumference of an Arabian desert , its parched sands tracked by the long line of a caravan with the camels patiently journeying through the heavy sunshine .
Though my ceiling be not lofty , yet I can pile up the mountains of Central Asia beneath it till their summits shine far above the clouds of the middle atmosphere .
And with my humble means -- a wealth that is not taxable -- I can transport hither the magnificent merchandise of an Oriental bazaar , and call a crowd of purchasers from distant countries to pay a fair profit for the precious articles which are displayed on all sides .
True it is , however , that amid the bustle of traffic , or whatever else may seem to be going on around me , the raindrops will occasionally be heard to patter against my window-panes , which look forth upon one of the quietest streets in a New England town .
After a time , too , the visions vanish , and will not appear again at my bidding .
Then , it being nightfall , a gloomy sense of unreality depresses my spirits , and impels me to venture out before the clock shall strike bedtime to satisfy myself that the world is not entirely made up of such shadowy materials as have busied me throughout the day .
A dreamer may dwell so long among fantasies that the things without him will seem as unreal as those within .
When eve has fairly set in , therefore , I sally forth , tightly buttoning my shaggy overcoat and hoisting my umbrella , the silken dome of which immediately resounds with the heavy drumming of the invisible raindrops .
Pausing on the lowest doorstep , I contrast the warmth and cheerfulness of my deserted fireside with the drear obscurity and chill discomfort into which I am about to plunge .
Now come fearful auguries innumerable as the drops of rain .
Did not my manhood cry shame upon me , I should turn back within-doors , resume my elbow-chair , my slippers and my book , pass such an evening of sluggish enjoyment as the day has been , and go to bed inglorious .
The same shivering reluctance , no doubt , has quelled for a moment the adventurous spirit of many a traveller when his feet , which were destined to measure the earth around , were leaving their last tracks in the home-paths .
In my own case poor human nature may be allowed a few misgivings .
I look upward and discern no sky , not even an unfathomable void , but only a black , impenetrable nothingness , as though heaven and all its lights were blotted from the system of the universe .
It is as if Nature were dead and the world had put on black and the clouds were weeping for her .
With their tears upon my cheek I turn my eyes earthward , but find little consolation here below .
A lamp is burning dimly at the distant corner , and throws just enough of light along the street to show , and exaggerate by so faintly showing , the perils and difficulties which beset my path .
Yonder dingily-white remnant of a huge snowbank , which will yet cumber the sidewalk till the latter days of March , over or through that wintry waste must I stride onward .
Beyond lies a certain Slough of Despond , a concoction of mud and liquid filth , ankle-deep , leg-deep , neck-deep -- in a word , of unknown bottom -- on which the lamplight does not even glimmer , but which I have occasionally watched in the gradual growth of its horrors from morn till nightfall .
Should I flounder into its depths , farewell to upper earth !
And hark !
how roughly resounds the roaring of a stream the turbulent career of which is partially reddened by the gleam of the lamp , but elsewhere brawls noisily through the densest gloom !
Oh , should I be swept away in fording that impetuous and unclean torrent , the coroner will have a job with an unfortunate gentleman who would fain end his troubles anywhere but in a mud-puddle .
Pshaw !
I will linger not another instant at arm 's - length from these dim terrors , which grow more obscurely formidable the longer I delay to grapple with them .
Now for the onset , and , lo !
with little damage save a dash of rain in the face and breast , a splash of mud high up the pantaloons and the left boot full of ice-cold water , behold me at the corner of the street .
The lamp throws down a circle of red light around me , and twinkling onward from corner to corner I discern other beacons , marshalling my way to a brighter scene .
But this is a lonesome and dreary spot .
The tall edifices bid gloomy defiance to the storm with their blinds all closed , even as a man winks when he faces a spattering gust .
How loudly tinkles the collected rain down the tin spouts !
The puffs of wind are boisterous , and seem to assail me from various quarters at once .
I have often observed that this corner is a haunt and loitering-place for those winds which have no work to do upon the deep dashing ships against our iron-bound shores , nor in the forest tearing up the sylvan giants with half a rood of soil at their vast roots .
Here they amuse themselves with lesser freaks of mischief .
See , at this moment , how they assail yonder poor woman who is passing just within the verge of the lamplight !
One blast struggles for her umbrella and turns it wrong side outward , another whisks the cape of her cloak across her eyes , while a third takes most unwarrantable liberties with the lower part of her attire .
Happily , the good dame is no gossamer , but a figure of rotundity and fleshly substance ; else would these aerial tormentors whirl her aloft like a witch upon a broomstick , and set her down , doubtless , in the filthiest kennel hereabout .
From hence I tread upon firm pavements into the centre of the town .
Here there is almost as brilliant an illumination as when some great victory has been won either on the battlefield or at the polls .
Two rows of shops with windows down nearly to the ground cast a glow from side to side , while the black night hangs overhead like a canopy , and thus keeps the splendor from diffusing itself away .
The wet sidewalks gleam with a broad sheet of red light .
The raindrops glitter as if the sky were pouring down rubies .
The spouts gush with fire .
Methinks the scene is an emblem of the deceptive glare which mortals throw around their footsteps in the moral world , thus bedazzling themselves till they forget the impenetrable obscurity that hems them in , and that can be dispelled only by radiance from above .
And , after all , it is a cheerless scene , and cheerless are the wanderers in it .
Here comes one who has so long been familiar with tempestuous weather that he takes the bluster of the storm for a friendly greeting , as if it should say , `` How fare ye , brother ? ''
He is a retired sea-captain wrapped in some nameless garment of the pea-jacket order , and is now laying his course toward the marine-insurance office , there to spin yarns of gale and shipwreck with a crew of old seadogs like himself .
The blast will put in its word among their hoarse voices , and be understood by all of them .
Next I meet an unhappy slipshod gentleman with a cloak flung hastily over his shoulders , running a race with boisterous winds and striving to glide between the drops of rain .
Some domestic emergency or other has blown this miserable man from his warm fireside in quest of a doctor .
See that little vagabond !
How carelessly he has taken his stand right underneath a spout while staring at some object of curiosity in a shop-window !
Surely the rain is his native element ; he must have fallen with it from the clouds , as frogs are supposed to do .
Here is a picture , and a pretty one -- a young man and a girl , both enveloped in cloaks and huddled beneath the scanty protection of a cotton umbrella .
She wears rubber overshoes , but he is in his dancing-pumps , and they are on their way no doubt , to some cotillon-party or subscription-ball at a dollar a head , refreshments included .
Thus they struggle against the gloomy tempest , lured onward by a vision of festal splendor .
But ah !
a most lamentable disaster !
Bewildered by the red , blue and yellow meteors in an apothecary 's window , they have stepped upon a slippery remnant of ice , and are precipitated into a confluence of swollen floods at the corner of two streets .
Luckless lovers !
Were it my nature to be other than a looker-on in life , I would attempt your rescue .
Since that may not be , I vow , should you be drowned , to weave such a pathetic story of your fate as shall call forth tears enough to drown you both anew .
Do ye touch bottom , my young friends ?
Yes ; they emerge like a water-nymph and a river-deity , and paddle hand in hand out of the depths of the dark pool .
They hurry homeward , dripping , disconsolate , abashed , but with love too warm to be chilled by the cold water .
They have stood a test which proves too strong for many .
Faithful though over head and ears in trouble !
Onward I go , deriving a sympathetic joy or sorrow from the varied aspect of mortal affairs even as my figure catches a gleam from the lighted windows or is blackened by an interval of darkness .
Not that mine is altogether a chameleon spirit with no hue of its own .
Now I pass into a more retired street where the dwellings of wealth and poverty are intermingled , presenting a range of strongly-contrasted pictures .
Here , too , may be found the golden mean .
Through yonder casement I discern a family circle -- the grandmother , the parents and the children -- all flickering , shadow-like , in the glow of a wood-fire .
-- Bluster , fierce blast , and beat , thou wintry rain , against the window-panes !
Ye can not damp the enjoyment of that fireside .
-- Surely my fate is hard that I should be wandering homeless here , taking to my bosom night and storm and solitude instead of wife and children .
Peace , murmurer !
Doubt not that darker guests are sitting round the hearth , though the warm blaze hides all but blissful images .
Well , here is still a brighter scene -- a stately mansion illuminated for a ball , with cut-glass chandeliers and alabaster lamps in every room , and sunny landscapes hanging round the walls .
See !
a coach has stopped , whence emerges a slender beauty who , canopied by two umbrellas , glides within the portal and vanishes amid lightsome thrills of music .
Will she ever feel the night-wind and the rain ?
Perhaps -- perhaps !
And will Death and Sorrow ever enter that proud mansion ?
As surely as the dancers will be gay within its halls to-night .
Such thoughts sadden yet satisfy my heart , for they teach me that the poor man in this mean , weatherbeaten hovel , without a fire to cheer him , may call the rich his brother -- brethren by Sorrow , who must be an inmate of both their households ; brethren by Death , who will lead them both to other homes .
Onward , still onward , I plunge into the night .
Now have I reached the utmost limits of the town , where the last lamp struggles feebly with the darkness like the farthest star that stands sentinel on the borders of uncreated space .
It is strange what sensations of sublimity may spring from a very humble source .
Such are suggested by this hollow roar of a subterranean cataract where the mighty stream of a kennel precipitates itself beneath an iron grate and is seen no more on earth .
Listen a while to its voice of mystery , and Fancy will magnify it till you start and smile at the illusion .
And now another sound -- the rumbling of wheels as the mail-coach , outward bound , rolls heavily off the pavements and splashes through the mud and water of the road .
All night long the poor passengers will be tossed to and fro between drowsy watch and troubled sleep , and will dream of their own quiet beds and awake to find themselves still jolting onward .
Happier my lot , who will straightway hie me to my familiar room and toast myself comfortably before the fire , musing and fitfully dozing and fancying a strangeness in such sights as all may see .
But first let me gaze at this solitary figure who comes hitherward with a tin lantern which throws the circular pattern of its punched holes on the ground about him .
He passes fearlessly into the unknown gloom , whither I will not follow him .
This figure shall supply me with a moral wherewith , for lack of a more appropriate one , I may wind up my sketch .
He fears not to tread the dreary path before him , because his lantern , which was kindled at the fireside of his home , will light him back to that same fireside again .
And thus we , night-wanderers through a stormy and dismal world , if we bear the lamp of Faith enkindled at a celestial fire , it will surely lead us home to that heaven whence its radiance was borrowed .
ENDICOTT AND THE RED CROSS .
At noon of an autumnal day more than two centuries ago the English colors were displayed by the standard bearer of the Salem train-band , which had mustered for martial exercise under the orders of John Endicott .
It was a period when the religious exiles were accustomed often to buckle on their armor and practise the handling of their weapons of war .
Since the first settlement of New England its prospects had never been so dismal .
The dissensions between Charles I. and his subjects were then , and for several years afterward , confined to the floor of Parliament .
The measures of the king and ministry were rendered more tyrannically violent by an opposition which had not yet acquired sufficient confidence in its own strength to resist royal injustice with the sword .
The bigoted and haughty primate Laud , archbishop of Canterbury , controlled the religious affairs of the realm , and was consequently invested with powers which might have wrought the utter ruin of the two Puritan colonies , Plymouth and Massachusetts .
There is evidence on record that our forefathers perceived their danger , but were resolved that their infant country should not fall without a struggle , even beneath the giant strength of the king 's right arm .
Such was the aspect of the times when the folds of the English banner with the red cross in its field were flung out over a company of Puritans .
Their leader , the famous Endicott , was a man of stern and resolute countenance , the effect of which was heightened by a grizzled beard that swept the upper portion of his breastplate .
This piece of armor was so highly polished that the whole surrounding scene had its image in the glittering steel .
The central object in the mirrored picture was an edifice of humble architecture with neither steeple nor bell to proclaim it -- what , nevertheless , it was -- the house of prayer .
A token of the perils of the wilderness was seen in the grim head of a wolf which had just been slain within the precincts of the town , and , according to the regular mode of claiming the bounty , was nailed on the porch of the meeting-house .
The blood was still plashing on the doorstep .
There happened to be visible at the same noontide hour so many other characteristics of the times and manners of the Puritans that we must endeavor to represent them in a sketch , though far less vividly than they were reflected in the polished breastplate of John Endicott .
In close vicinity to the sacred edifice appeared that important engine of Puritanic authority the whipping-post , with the soil around it well trodden by the feet of evil-doers who had there been disciplined .
At one corner of the meeting-house was the pillory and at the other the stocks , and , by a singular good fortune for our sketch , the head of an Episcopalian and suspected Catholic was grotesquely encased in the former machine , while a fellow-criminal who had boisterously quaffed a health to the king was confined by the legs in the latter .
Side by side on the meeting-house steps stood a male and a female figure .
The man was a tall , lean , haggard personification of fanaticism , bearing on his breast this label , `` A WANTON GOSPELLER , '' which betokened that he had dared to give interpretations of Holy Writ unsanctioned by the infallible judgment of the civil and religious rulers .
His aspect showed no lack of zeal to maintain his heterodoxies even at the stake .
The woman wore a cleft stick on her tongue , in appropriate retribution for having wagged that unruly member against the elders of the church , and her countenance and gestures gave much cause to apprehend that the moment the stick should be removed a repetition of the offence would demand new ingenuity in chastising it .
The above-mentioned individuals had been sentenced to undergo their various modes of ignominy for the space of one hour at noonday .
But among the crowd were several whose punishment would be lifelong -- some whose ears had been cropped like those of puppy-dogs , others whose cheeks had been branded with the initials of their misdemeanors ; one with his nostrils slit and seared , and another with a halter about his neck , which he was forbidden ever to take off or to conceal beneath his garments .
Methinks he must have been grievously tempted to affix the other end of the rope to some convenient beam or bough .
There was likewise a young woman with no mean share of beauty whose doom it was to wear the letter A on the breast of her gown in the eyes of all the world and her own children .
And even her own children knew what that initial signified .
Sporting with her infamy , the lost and desperate creature had embroidered the fatal token in scarlet cloth with golden thread and the nicest art of needlework ; so that the capital A might have been thought to mean `` Admirable , '' or anything rather than `` Adulteress . ''
Let not the reader argue from any of these evidences of iniquity that the times of the Puritans were more vicious than our own , when as we pass along the very street of this sketch we discern no badge of infamy on man or woman .
It was the policy of our ancestors to search out even the most secret sins and expose them to shame , without fear or favor , in the broadest light of the noonday sun .
Were such the custom now , perchance we might find materials for a no less piquant sketch than the above .
Except the malefactors whom we have described and the diseased or infirm persons , the whole male population of the town , between sixteen years and sixty were seen in the ranks of the train-band .
A few stately savages in all the pomp and dignity of the primeval Indian stood gazing at the spectacle .
Their flint-headed arrows were but childish weapons , compared with the matchlocks of the Puritans , and would have rattled harmlessly against the steel caps and hammered iron breastplates which enclosed each soldier in an individual fortress .
The valiant John Endicott glanced with an eye of pride at his sturdy followers , and prepared to renew the martial toils of the day .
`` Come , my stout hearts ! ''
quoth he , drawing his sword .
`` Let us show these poor heathen that we can handle our weapons like men of might .
Well for them if they put us not to prove it in earnest ! ''
The iron-breasted company straightened their line , and each man drew the heavy butt of his matchlock close to his left foot , thus awaiting the orders of the captain .
But as Endicott glanced right and left along the front he discovered a personage at some little distance with whom it behoved him to hold a parley .
It was an elderly gentleman wearing a black cloak and band and a high-crowned hat beneath which was a velvet skull-cap , the whole being the garb of a Puritan minister .
This reverend person bore a staff which seemed to have been recently cut in the forest , and his shoes were bemired , as if he had been travelling on foot through the swamps of the wilderness .
His aspect was perfectly that of a pilgrim , heightened also by an apostolic dignity .
Just as Endicott perceived him he laid aside his staff and stooped to drink at a bubbling fountain which gushed into the sunshine about a score of yards from the corner of the meeting-house .
But ere the good man drank he turned his face heavenward in thankfulness , and then , holding back his gray beard with one hand , he scooped up his simple draught in the hollow of the other .
`` What ho , good Mr. Williams ! ''
shouted Endicott .
`` You are welcome back again to our town of peace .
How does our worthy Governor Winthrop ?
And what news from Boston ? ''
`` The governor hath his health , worshipful sir , '' answered Roger Williams , now resuming his staff and drawing near .
`` And , for the news , here is a letter which , knowing I was to travel hitherward to-day , His Excellency committed to my charge .
Belike it contains tidings of much import , for a ship arrived yesterday from England . ''
Mr. Williams , the minister of Salem , and of course known to all the spectators , had now reached the spot where Endicott was standing under the banner of his company , and put the governor 's epistle into his hand .
The broad seal was impressed with Winthrop 's coat-of-arms .
Endicott hastily unclosed the letter and began to read , while , as his eye passed down the page , a wrathful change came over his manly countenance .
The blood glowed through it till it seemed to be kindling with an internal heat , nor was it unnatural to suppose that his breastplate would likewise become red hot with the angry fire of the bosom which it covered .
Arriving at the conclusion , he shook the letter fiercely in his hand , so that it rustled as loud as the flag above his head .
`` Black tidings these , Mr. Williams , '' said he ; `` blacker never came to New England .
Doubtless you know their purport ? ''
`` Yea , truly , '' replied Roger Williams , `` for the governor consulted respecting this matter with my brethren in the ministry at Boston , and my opinion was likewise asked .
And His Excellency entreats you by me that the news be not suddenly noised abroad , lest the people be stirred up unto some outbreak , and thereby give the king and the archbishop a handle against us . ''
`` The governor is a wise man -- a wise man , and a meek and moderate , '' said Endicott , setting his teeth grimly .
`` Nevertheless , I must do according to my own best judgment .
There is neither man , woman nor child in New England but has a concern as dear as life in these tidings ; and if John Endicott 's voice be loud enough , man , woman and child shall hear them .
-- Soldiers , wheel into a hollow square .
-- Ho , good people !
Here are news for one and all of you . ''
The soldiers closed in around their captain , and he and Roger Williams stood together under the banner of the red cross , while the women and the aged men pressed forward and the mothers held up their children to look Endicott in the face .
A few taps of the drum gave signal for silence and attention .
`` Fellow-soldiers , fellow-exiles , '' began Endicott , speaking under strong excitement , yet powerfully restraining it , `` wherefore did ye leave your native country ?
Wherefore , I say , have we left the green and fertile fields , the cottages , or , perchance , the old gray halls , where we were born and bred , the churchyards where our forefathers lie buried ?
Wherefore have we come hither to set up our own tombstones in a wilderness ?
A howling wilderness it is .
The wolf and the bear meet us within halloo of our dwellings .
The savage lieth in wait for us in the dismal shadow of the woods .
The stubborn roots of the trees break our ploughshares when we would till the earth .
Our children cry for bread , and we must dig in the sands of the seashore to satisfy them .
Wherefore , I say again , have we sought this country of a rugged soil and wintry sky ?
Was it not for the enjoyment of our civil rights ?
Was it not for liberty to worship God according to our conscience ? ''
`` Call you this liberty of conscience ? ''
interrupted a voice on the steps of the meeting-house .
It was the wanton gospeller .
A sad and quiet smile flitted across the mild visage of Roger Williams , but Endicott , in the excitement of the moment , shook his sword wrathfully at the culprit -- an ominous gesture from a man like him .
`` What hast thou to do with conscience , thou knave ? ''
cried he .
`` I said liberty to worship God , not license to profane and ridicule him .
Break not in upon my speech , or I will lay thee neck and heels till this time to-morrow .
-- Hearken to me , friends , nor heed that accursed rhapsodist .
As I was saying , we have sacrificed all things , and have come to a land whereof the Old World hath scarcely heard , that we might make a new world unto ourselves and painfully seek a path from hence to heaven .
But what think ye now ?
This son of a Scotch tyrant -- this grandson of a papistical and adulterous Scotch woman whose death proved that a golden crown doth not always save an anointed head from the block -- '' `` Nay , brother , nay , '' interposed Mr. Williams ; `` thy words are not meet for a secret chamber , far less for a public street . ''
`` Hold thy peace , Roger Williams ! ''
answered Endicott , imperiously .
`` My spirit is wiser than thine for the business now in hand .
-- I tell ye , fellow-exiles , that Charles of England and Laud , our bitterest persecutor , arch-priest of Canterbury , are resolute to pursue us even hither .
They are taking counsel , saith this letter , to send over a governor-general in whose breast shall be deposited all the law and equity of the land .
They are minded , also , to establish the idolatrous forms of English episcopacy ; so that when Laud shall kiss the pope 's toe as cardinal of Rome he may deliver New England , bound hand and foot , into the power of his master . ''
A deep groan from the auditors -- a sound of wrath as well as fear and sorrow -- responded to this intelligence .
`` Look ye to it , brethren , '' resumed Endicott , with increasing energy .
`` If this king and this arch-prelate have their will , we shall briefly behold a cross on the spire of this tabernacle which we have builded , and a high altar within its walls , with wax tapers burning round it at noon-day .
We shall hear the sacring-bell and the voices of the Romish priests saying the mass .
But think ye , Christian men , that these abominations may be suffered without a sword drawn , without a shot fired , without blood spilt -- yea , on the very stairs of the pulpit ?
No !
Be ye strong of hand and stout of heart .
Here we stand on our own soil , which we have bought with our goods , which we have won with our swords , which we have cleared with our axes , which we have tilled with the sweat of our brows , which we have sanctified with our prayers to the God that brought us hither !
Who shall enslave us here ?
What have we to do with this mitred prelate -- with this crowned king ?
What have we to do with England ? ''
Endicott gazed round at the excited countenances of the people , now full of his own spirit , and then turned suddenly to the standard-bearer , who stood close behind him .
`` Officer , lower your banner , '' said he .
The officer obeyed , and , brandishing his sword , Endicott thrust it through the cloth and with his left hand rent the red cross completely out of the banner .
He then waved the tattered ensign above his head .
`` Sacrilegious wretch ! ''
cried the high-churchman in the pillory , unable longer to restrain himself ; `` thou hast rejected the symbol of our holy religion . ''
`` Treason !
treason ! ''
roared the royalist in the stocks .
`` He hath defaced the king 's banner ! ''
`` Before God and man I will avouch the deed , '' answered Endicott .
-- `` Beat a flourish , drummer -- shout , soldiers and people -- in honor of the ensign of New England .
Neither pope nor tyrant hath part in it now . ''
With a cry of triumph the people gave their sanction to one of the boldest exploits which our history records .
And for ever honored be the name of Endicott !
We look back through the mist of ages , and recognize in the rending of the red cross from New England 's banner the first omen of that deliverance which our fathers consummated after the bones of the stern Puritan had lain more than a century in the dust .
THE LILY 'S QUEST .
AN APOLOGUE .
Two lovers once upon a time had planned a little summer-house in the form of an antique temple which it was their purpose to consecrate to all manner of refined and innocent enjoyments .
There they would hold pleasant intercourse with one another and the circle of their familiar friends ; there they would give festivals of delicious fruit ; there they would hear lightsome music intermingled with the strains of pathos which make joy more sweet ; there they would read poetry and fiction and permit their own minds to flit away in day-dreams and romance ; there , in short -- for why should we shape out the vague sunshine of their hopes ?
-- there all pure delights were to cluster like roses among the pillars of the edifice and blossom ever new and spontaneously .
So one breezy and cloudless afternoon Adam Forrester and Lilias Fay set out upon a ramble over the wide estate which they were to possess together , seeking a proper site for their temple of happiness .
They were themselves a fair and happy spectacle , fit priest and priestess for such a shrine , although , making poetry of the pretty name of Lilias , Adam Forrester was wont to call her `` Lily '' because her form was as fragile and her cheek almost as pale .
As they passed hand in hand down the avenue of drooping elms that led from the portal of Lilias Fay 's paternal mansion they seemed to glance like winged creatures through the strips of sunshine , and to scatter brightness where the deep shadows fell .
But , setting forth at the same time with this youthful pair , there was a dismal figure wrapped in a black velvet cloak that might have been made of a coffin-pall , and with a sombre hat such as mourners wear drooping its broad brim over his heavy brows .
Glancing behind them , the lovers well knew who it was that followed , but wished from their hearts that he had been elsewhere , as being a companion so strangely unsuited to their joyous errand .
It was a near relative of Lilias Fay , an old man by the name of Walter Gascoigne , who had long labored under the burden of a melancholy spirit which was sometimes maddened into absolute insanity and always had a tinge of it .
What a contrast between the young pilgrims of bliss and their unbidden associate !
They looked as if moulded of heaven 's sunshine and he of earth 's gloomiest shade ; they flitted along like Hope and Joy roaming hand in hand through life , while his darksome figure stalked behind , a type of all the woeful influences which life could fling upon them .
But the three had not gone far when they reached a spot that pleased the gentle Lily , and she paused .
`` What sweeter place shall we find than this ? ''
said she .
`` Why should we seek farther for the site of our temple ? ''
It was indeed a delightful spot of earth , though undistinguished by any very prominent beauties , being merely a nook in the shelter of a hill , with the prospect of a distant lake in one direction and of a church-spire in another .
There were vistas and pathways leading onward and onward into the green woodlands and vanishing away in the glimmering shade .
The temple , if erected here , would look toward the west ; so that the lovers could shape all sorts of magnificent dreams out of the purple , violet and gold of the sunset sky , and few of their anticipated pleasures were dearer than this sport of fantasy .
`` Yes , '' said Adam Forrester ; `` we might seek all day and find no lovelier spot .
We will build our temple here . ''
But their sad old companion , who had taken his stand on the very site which they proposed to cover with a marble floor , shook his head and frowned , and the young man and the Lily deemed it almost enough to blight the spot and desecrate it for their airy temple that his dismal figure had thrown its shadow there .
He pointed to some scattered stones , the remnants of a former structure , and to flowers such as young girls delight to nurse in their gardens , but which had now relapsed into the wild simplicity of nature .
`` Not here , '' cried old Walter Gascoigne .
`` Here , long ago , other mortals built their temple of happiness ; seek another site for yours . ''
`` What ! ''
exclaimed Lilias Fay .
`` Have any ever planned such a temple save ourselves ? ''
`` Poor child ! ''
said her gloomy kinsman .
`` In one shape or other every mortal has dreamed your dream . ''
Then he told the lovers , how -- not , indeed , an antique temple , but a dwelling -- had once stood there , and that a dark-clad guest had dwelt among its inmates , sitting for ever at the fireside and poisoning all their household mirth .
Under this type Adam Forrester and Lilias saw that the old man spake of sorrow .
He told of nothing that might not be recorded in the history of almost every household , and yet his hearers felt as if no sunshine ought to fall upon a spot where human grief had left so deep a stain -- or , at least , that no joyous temple should be built there .
`` This is very sad , '' said the Lily , sighing .
`` Well , there are lovelier spots than this , '' said Adam Forrester , soothingly -- `` spots which sorrow has not blighted . ''
So they hastened away , and the melancholy Gascoigne followed them , looking as if he had gathered up all the gloom of the deserted spot and was bearing it as a burden of inestimable treasure .
But still they rambled on , and soon found themselves in a rocky dell through the midst of which ran a streamlet with ripple and foam and a continual voice of inarticulate joy .
It was a wild retreat walled on either side with gray precipices which would have frowned somewhat too sternly had not a profusion of green shrubbery rooted itself into their crevices and wreathed gladsome foliage around their solemn brows .
But the chief joy of the dell was in the little stream which seemed like the presence of a blissful child with nothing earthly to do save to babble merrily and disport itself , and make every living soul its playfellow , and throw the sunny gleams of its spirit upon all .
`` Here , here is the spot ! ''
cried the two lovers , with one voice , as they reached a level space on the brink of a small cascade .
`` This glen was made on purpose for our temple . ''
`` And the glad song of the brook will be always in our ears , '' said Lilias Fay .
`` And its long melody shall sing the bliss of our lifetime , '' said Adam Forrester .
`` Ye must build no temple here , '' murmured their dismal companion .
And there again was the old lunatic standing just on the spot where they meant to rear their lightsome dome , and looking like the embodied symbol of some great woe that in forgotten days had happened there .
And , alas !
there had been woe , nor that alone .
A young man more than a hundred years before had lured hither a girl that loved him , and on this spot had murdered her and washed his bloody hands in the stream which sang so merrily , and ever since the victim 's death-shrieks were often heard to echo between the cliffs .
`` And see ! ''
cried old Gascoigne ; `` is the stream yet pure from the stain of the murderer 's hands ? ''
`` Methinks it has a tinge of blood , '' faintly answered the Lily ; and , being as slight as the gossamer , she trembled and clung to her lover 's arm , whispering , `` Let us flee from this dreadful vale . ''
`` Come , then , '' said Adam Forrester as cheerily as he could ; `` we shall soon find a happier spot . ''
They set forth again , young pilgrims on that quest which millions -- which every child of earth -- has tried in turn .
And were the Lily and her lover to be more fortunate than all those millions ?
For a long time it seemed not so .
The dismal shape of the old lunatic still glided behind them , and for every spot that looked lovely in their eyes he had some legend of human wrong or suffering so miserably sad that his auditors could never afterward connect the idea of joy with the place where it had happened .
Here a heartbroken woman kneeling to her child had been spurned from his feet ; here a desolate old creature had prayed to the evil one , and had received a fiendish malignity of soul in answer to her prayer ; here a new-born infant , sweet blossom of life , had been found dead with the impress of its mother 's fingers round its throat ; and here , under a shattered oak , two lovers had been stricken by lightning and fell blackened corpses in each other 's arms .
The dreary Gascoigne had a gift to know whatever evil and lamentable thing had stained the bosom of Mother Earth ; and when his funereal voice had told the tale , it appeared like a prophecy of future woe as well as a tradition of the past .
And now , by their sad demeanor , you would have fancied that the pilgrim-lovers were seeking , not a temple of earthly joy , but a tomb for themselves and their posterity .
`` Where in this world , '' exclaimed Adam Forrester , despondingly , `` shall we build our temple of happiness ? ''
`` Where in this world , indeed ? ''
repeated Lilias Fay ; and , being faint and weary -- the more so by the heaviness of her heart -- the Lily drooped her head and sat down on the summit of a knoll , repeating , `` Where in this world shall we build our temple ? ''
`` Ah !
have you already asked yourselves that question ? ''
said their companion , his shaded features growing even gloomier with the smile that dwelt on them .
`` Yet there is a place even in this world where ye may build it . ''
While the old man spoke Adam Forrester and Lilias had carelessly thrown their eyes around , and perceived that the spot where they had chanced to pause possessed a quiet charm which was well enough adapted to their present mood of mind .
It was a small rise of ground with a certain regularity of shape that had perhaps been bestowed by art , and a group of trees which almost surrounded it threw their pensive shadows across and far beyond , although some softened glory of the sunshine found its way there .
The ancestral mansion wherein the lovers would dwell together appeared on one side , and the ivied church where they were to worship on another .
Happening to cast their eyes on the ground , they smiled , yet with a sense of wonder , to see that a pale lily was growing at their feet .
`` We will build our temple here , '' said they , simultaneously , and with an indescribable conviction that they had at last found the very spot .
Yet while they uttered this exclamation the young man and the Lily turned an apprehensive glance at their dreary associate , deeming it hardly possible that some tale of earthly affliction should not make those precincts loathsome , as in every former case .
The old man stood just behind them , so as to form the chief figure in the group , with his sable cloak muffling the lower part of his visage and his sombre hat overshadowing his brows .
But he gave no word of dissent from their purpose , and an inscrutable smile was accepted by the lovers as a token that here had been no footprint of guilt or sorrow to desecrate the site of their temple of happiness .
In a little time longer , while summer was still in its prime , the fairy-structure of the temple arose on the summit of the knoll amid the solemn shadows of the trees , yet often gladdened with bright sunshine .
It was built of white marble , with slender and graceful pillars supporting a vaulted dome , and beneath the centre of this dome , upon a pedestal , was a slab of dark-veined marble on which books and music might be strewn .
But there was a fantasy among the people of the neighborhood that the edifice was planned after an ancient mausoleum and was intended for a tomb , and that the central slab of dark-veined marble was to be inscribed with the names of buried ones .
They doubted , too , whether the form of Lilias Fay could appertain to a creature of this earth , being so very delicate and growing every day more fragile , so that she looked as if the summer breeze should snatch her up and waft her heavenward .
But still she watched the daily growth of the temple , and so did old Walter Gascoigne , who now made that spot his continual haunt , leaning whole hours together on his staff and giving as deep attention to the work as though it had been indeed a tomb .
In due time it was finished and a day appointed for a simple rite of dedication .
On the preceding evening , after Adam Forrester had taken leave of his mistress , he looked back toward the portal of her dwelling and felt a strange thrill of fear , for he imagined that as the setting sunbeams faded from her figure she was exhaling away , and that something of her ethereal substance was withdrawn with each lessening gleam of light .
With his farewell glance a shadow had fallen over the portal , and Lilias was invisible .
His foreboding spirit deemed it an omen at the time , and so it proved ; for the sweet earthly form by which the Lily had been manifested to the world was found lifeless the next morning in the temple with her head resting on her arms , which were folded upon the slab of dark-veined marble .
The chill winds of the earth had long since breathed a blight into this beautiful flower ; so that a loving hand had now transplanted it to blossom brightly in the garden of Paradise .
But alas for the temple of happiness !
In his unutterable grief Adam Forrester had no purpose more at heart than to convert this temple of many delightful hopes into a tomb and bury his dead mistress there .
And , lo !
a wonder !
Digging a grave beneath the temple 's marble floor , the sexton found no virgin earth such as was meet to receive the maiden 's dust , but an ancient sepulchre in which were treasured up the bones of generations that had died long ago .
Among those forgotten ancestors was the Lily to be laid ; and when the funeral procession brought Lilias thither in her coffin , they beheld old Walter Gascoigne standing beneath the dome of the temple with his cloak of pall and face of darkest gloom , and wherever that figure might take its stand the spot would seem a sepulchre .
He watched the mourners as they lowered the coffin down .
`` And so , '' said he to Adam Forrester , with the strange smile in which his insanity was wont to gleam forth , `` you have found no better foundation for your happiness than on a grave ? ''
But as the shadow of Affliction spoke a vision of hope and joy had its birth in Adam 's mind even from the old man 's taunting words , for then he knew what was betokened by the parable in which the Lily and himself had acted , and the mystery of life and death was opened to him .
`` Joy !
joy ! ''
he cried , throwing his arms toward heaven .
`` On a grave be the site of our temple , and now our happiness is for eternity . ''
With those words a ray of sunshine broke through the dismal sky and glimmered down into the sepulchre , while at the same moment the shape of old Walter Gascoigne stalked drearily away , because his gloom , symbolic of all earthly sorrow , might no longer abide there now that the darkest riddle of humanity was read .
FOOTPRINTS ON THE SEASHORE .
It must be a spirit much unlike my own which can keep itself in health and vigor without sometimes stealing from the sultry sunshine of the world to plunge into the cool bath of solitude .
At intervals , and not infrequent ones , the forest and the ocean summon me -- one with the roar of its waves , the other with the murmur of its boughs -- forth from the haunts of men .
But I must wander many a mile ere I could stand beneath the shadow of even one primeval tree , much less be lost among the multitude of hoary trunks and hidden from the earth and sky by the mystery of darksome foliage .
Nothing is within my daily reach more like a forest than the acre or two of woodland near some suburban farmhouse .
When , therefore , the yearning for seclusion becomes a necessity within me , I am drawn to the seashore which extends its line of rude rocks and seldom-trodden sands for leagues around our bay .
Setting forth at my last ramble on a September morning , I bound myself with a hermit 's vow to interchange no thoughts with man or woman , to share no social pleasure , but to derive all that day 's enjoyment from shore and sea and sky , from my soul 's communion with these , and from fantasies and recollections or anticipated realities .
Surely here is enough to feed a human spirit for a single day .
-- Farewell , then , busy world !
Till your evening lights shall shine along the street -- till they gleam upon my sea-flushed face as I tread homeward -- free me from your ties and let me be a peaceful outlaw .
Highways and cross-paths are hastily traversed , and , clambering down a crag , I find myself at the extremity of a long beach .
How gladly does the spirit leap forth and suddenly enlarge its sense of being to the full extent of the broad blue , sunny deep !
A greeting and a homage to the sea !
I descend over its margin and dip my hand into the wave that meets me , and bathe my brow .
That far-resounding roar is Ocean 's voice of welcome .
His salt breath brings a blessing along with it .
Now let us pace together -- the reader 's fancy arm in arm with mine -- this noble beach , which extends a mile or more from that craggy promontory to yonder rampart of broken rocks .
In front , the sea ; in the rear , a precipitous bank the grassy verge of which is breaking away year after year , and flings down its tufts of verdure upon the barrenness below .
The beach itself is a broad space of sand , brown and sparkling , with hardly any pebbles intermixed .
Near the water 's edge there is a wet margin which glistens brightly in the sunshine and reflects objects like a mirror , and as we tread along the glistening border a dry spot flashes around each footstep , but grows moist again as we lift our feet .
In some spots the sand receives a complete impression of the sole , square toe and all ; elsewhere it is of such marble firmness that we must stamp heavily to leave a print even of the iron-shod heel .
Along the whole of this extensive beach gambols the surf-wave .
Now it makes a feint of dashing onward in a fury , yet dies away with a meek murmur and does but kiss the strand ; now , after many such abortive efforts , it rears itself up in an unbroken line , heightening as it advances , without a speck of foam on its green crest .
With how fierce a roar it flings itself forward and rushes far up the beach !
As I threw my eyes along the edge of the surf I remember that I was startled , as Robinson Crusoe might have been , by the sense that human life was within the magic circle of my solitude .
Afar off in the remote distance of the beach , appearing like sea-nymphs , or some airier things such as might tread upon the feathery spray , was a group of girls .
Hardly had I beheld them , when they passed into the shadow of the rocks and vanished .
To comfort myself -- for truly I would fain have gazed a while longer -- I made acquaintance with a flock of beach-birds .
These little citizens of the sea and air preceded me by about a stone 's - throw along the strand , seeking , I suppose , for food upon its margin .
Yet , with a philosophy which mankind would do well to imitate , they drew a continual pleasure from their toil for a subsistence .
The sea was each little bird 's great playmate .
They chased it downward as it swept back , and again ran up swiftly before the impending wave , which sometimes overtook them and bore them off their feet .
But they floated as lightly as one of their own feathers on the breaking crest .
In their airy flutterings they seemed to rest on the evanescent spray .
Their images -- long-legged little figures with gray backs and snowy bosoms -- were seen as distinctly as the realities in the mirror of the glistening strand .
As I advanced they flew a score or two of yards , and , again alighting , recommenced their dalliance with the surf-wave ; and thus they bore me company along the beach , the types of pleasant fantasies , till at its extremity they took wing over the ocean and were gone .
After forming a friendship with these small surf-spirits , it is really worth a sigh to find no memorial of them save their multitudinous little tracks in the sand .
When we have paced the length of the beach , it is pleasant and not unprofitable to retrace our steps and recall the whole mood and occupation of the mind during the former passage .
Our tracks , being all discernible , will guide us with an observing consciousness through every unconscious wandering of thought and fancy .
Here we followed the surf in its reflux to pick up a shell which the sea seemed loth to relinquish .
Here we found a seaweed with an immense brown leaf , and trailed it behind us by its long snake-like stalk .
Here we seized a live horseshoe by the tail , and counted the many claws of that queer monster .
Here we dug into the sand for pebbles , and skipped them upon the surface of the water .
Here we wet our feet while examining a jelly-fish which the waves , having just tossed it up , now sought to snatch away again .
Here we trod along the brink of a fresh-water brooklet which flows across the beach , becoming shallower and more shallow , till at last it sinks into the sand and perishes in the effort to bear its little tribute to the main .
Here some vagary appears to have bewildered us , for our tracks go round and round and are confusedly intermingled , as if we had found a labyrinth upon the level beach .
And here amid our idle pastime we sat down upon almost the only stone that breaks the surface of the sand , and were lost in an unlooked-for and overpowering conception of the majesty and awfulness of the great deep .
Thus by tracking our footprints in the sand we track our own nature in its wayward course , and steal a glance upon it when it never dreams of being so observed .
Such glances always make us wiser .
This extensive beach affords room for another pleasant pastime .
With your staff you may write verses -- love-verses if they please you best -- and consecrate them with a woman 's name .
Here , too , may be inscribed thoughts , feelings , desires , warm outgushings from the heart 's secret places , which you would not pour upon the sand without the certainty that almost ere the sky has looked upon them the sea will wash them out .
Stir not hence till the record be effaced .
Now -LRB- for there is room enough on your canvas -RRB- draw huge faces -- huge as that of the Sphynx on Egyptian sands -- and fit them with bodies of corresponding immensity and legs which might stride halfway to yonder island .
Child 's - play becomes magnificent on so grand a scale .
But , after all , the most fascinating employment is simply to write your name in the sand .
Draw the letters gigantic , so that two strides may barely measure them , and three for the long strokes ; cut deep , that the record may be permanent .
Statesmen and warriors and poets have spent their strength in no better cause than this .
Is it accomplished ?
Return , then , in an hour or two , and seek for this mighty record of a name .
The sea will have swept over it , even as time rolls its effacing waves over the names of statesmen and warriors and poets .
Hark !
the surf-wave laughs at you .
Passing from the beach , I begin to clamber over the crags , making my difficult way among the ruins of a rampart shattered and broken by the assaults of a fierce enemy .
The rocks rise in every variety of attitude .
Some of them have their feet in the foam and are shagged halfway upward with seaweed ; some have been hollowed almost into caverns by the unwearied toil of the sea , which can afford to spend centuries in wearing away a rock , or even polishing a pebble .
One huge rock ascends in monumental shape , with a face like a giant 's tombstone , on which the veins resemble inscriptions , but in an unknown tongue .
We will fancy them the forgotten characters of an antediluvian race , or else that Nature 's own hand has here recorded a mystery which , could I read her language , would make mankind the wiser and the happier .
How many a thing has troubled me with that same idea !
Pass on and leave it unexplained .
Here is a narrow avenue which might seem to have been hewn through the very heart of an enormous crag , affording passage for the rising sea to thunder back and forth , filling it with tumultuous foam and then leaving its floor of black pebbles bare and glistening .
In this chasm there was once an intersecting vein of softer stone , which the waves have gnawed away piecemeal , while the granite walls remain entire on either side .
How sharply and with what harsh clamor does the sea rake back the pebbles as it momentarily withdraws into its own depths !
At intervals the floor of the chasm is left nearly dry , but anon , at the outlet , two or three great waves are seen struggling to get in at once ; two hit the walls athwart , while one rushes straight through , and all three thunder as if with rage and triumph .
They heap the chasm with a snow-drift of foam and spray .
While watching this scene I can never rid myself of the idea that a monster endowed with life and fierce energy is striving to burst his way through the narrow pass .
And what a contrast to look through the stormy chasm and catch a glimpse of the calm bright sea beyond !
Many interesting discoveries may be made among these broken cliffs .
Once , for example , I found a dead seal which a recent tempest had tossed into the nook of the rocks , where his shaggy carcase lay rolled in a heap of eel-grass as if the sea-monster sought to hide himself from my eye .
Another time a shark seemed on the point of leaping from the surf to swallow me , nor did I wholly without dread approach near enough to ascertain that the man-eater had already met his own death from some fisherman in the bay .
In the same ramble I encountered a bird -- a large gray bird -- but whether a loon or a wild goose or the identical albatross of the Ancient Mariner was beyond my ornithology to decide .
It reposed so naturally on a bed of dry seaweed , with its head beside its wing , that I almost fancied it alive , and trod softly lest it should suddenly spread its wings skyward .
But the sea-bird would soar among the clouds no more , nor ride upon its native waves ; so I drew near and pulled out one of its mottled tail-feathers for a remembrance .
Another day I discovered an immense bone wedged into a chasm of the rocks ; it was at least ten feet long , curved like a scymitar , bejewelled with barnacles and small shellfish and partly covered with a growth of seaweed .
Some leviathan of former ages had used this ponderous mass as a jaw-bone .
Curiosities of a minuter order may be observed in a deep reservoir which is replenished with water at every tide , but becomes a lake among the crags save when the sea is at its height .
At the bottom of this rocky basin grow marine plants , some of which tower high beneath the water and cast a shadow in the sunshine .
Small fishes dart to and fro and hide themselves among the seaweed ; there is also a solitary crab who appears to lead the life of a hermit , communing with none of the other denizens of the place , and likewise several five-fingers ; for I know no other name than that which children give them .
If your imagination be at all accustomed to such freaks , you may look down into the depths of this pool and fancy it the mysterious depth of ocean .
But where are the hulks and scattered timbers of sunken ships ?
where the treasures that old Ocean hoards ?
where the corroded cannon ?
where the corpses and skeletons of seamen who went down in storm and battle ?
On the day of my last ramble -- it was a September day , yet as warm as summer -- what should I behold as I approached the above-described basin but three girls sitting on its margin and -- yes , it is veritably so -- laving their snowy feet in the sunny water ?
These , these are the warm realities of those three visionary shapes that flitted from me on the beach .
Hark their merry voices as they toss up the water with their feet !
They have not seen me .
I must shrink behind this rock and steal away again .
In honest truth , vowed to solitude as I am , there is something in this encounter that makes the heart flutter with a strangely pleasant sensation .
I know these girls to be realities of flesh and blood , yet , glancing at them so briefly , they mingle like kindred creatures with the ideal beings of my mind .
It is pleasant , likewise , to gaze down from some high crag and watch a group of children gathering pebbles and pearly shells and playing with the surf as with old Ocean 's hoary beard .
Nor does it infringe upon my seclusion to see yonder boat at anchor off the shore swinging dreamily to and fro and rising and sinking with the alternate swell , while the crew -- four gentlemen in roundabout jackets -- are busy with their fishing-lines .
But with an inward antipathy and a headlong flight do I eschew the presence of any meditative stroller like myself , known by his pilgrim-staff , his sauntering step , his shy demeanor , his observant yet abstracted eye .
From such a man as if another self had scared me I scramble hastily over the rocks , and take refuge in a nook which many a secret hour has given me a right to call my own .
I would do battle for it even with the churl that should produce the title-deeds .
Have not my musings melted into its rocky walls and sandy floor and made them a portion of myself ?
It is a recess in the line of cliffs , walled round by a rough , high precipice which almost encircles and shuts in a little space of sand .
In front the sea appears as between the pillars of a portal ; in the rear the precipice is broken and intermixed with earth which gives nourishment not only to clinging and twining shrubs , but to trees that grip the rock with their naked roots and seem to struggle hard for footing and for soil enough to live upon .
These are fir trees , but oaks hang their heavy branches from above , and throw down acorns on the beach , and shed their withering foliage upon the waves .
At this autumnal season the precipice is decked with variegated splendor .
Trailing wreaths of scarlet flaunt from the summit downward ; tufts of yellow-flowering shrubs and rose-bushes , with their reddened leaves and glossy seed-berries , sprout from each crevice ; at every glance I detect some new light or shade of beauty , all contrasting with the stern gray rock .
A rill of water trickles down the cliff and fills a little cistern near the base .
I drain it at a draught , and find it fresh and pure .
This recess shall be my dining-hall .
And what the feast ?
A few biscuits made savory by soaking them in sea-water , a tuft of samphire gathered from the beach , and an apple for the dessert .
By this time the little rill has filled its reservoir again , and as I quaff it I thank God more heartily than for a civic banquet that he gives me the healthful appetite to make a feast of bread and water .
Dinner being over , I throw myself at length upon the sand and , basking in the sunshine , let my mind disport itself at will .
The walls of this my hermitage have no tongue to tell my follies , though I sometimes fancy that they have ears to hear them and a soul to sympathize .
There is a magic in this spot .
Dreams haunt its precincts and flit around me in broad sunlight , nor require that sleep shall blindfold me to real objects ere these be visible .
Here can I frame a story of two lovers , and make their shadows live before me and be mirrored in the tranquil water as they tread along the sand , leaving no footprints .
Here , should I will it , I can summon up a single shade and be myself her lover .
-- Yes , dreamer , but your lonely heart will be the colder for such fancies .
-- Sometimes , too , the Past comes back , and finds me here , and in her train come faces which were gladsome when I knew them , yet seem not gladsome now .
Would that my hiding-place were lonelier , so that the Past might not find me !
-- Get ye all gone , old friends , and let me listen to the murmur of the sea -- a melancholy voice , but less sad than yours .
Of what mysteries is it telling ?
Of sunken ships and whereabouts they lie ?
Of islands afar and undiscovered whose tawny children are unconscious of other islands and of continents , and deem the stars of heaven their nearest neighbors ?
Nothing of all this .
What , then ?
Has it talked for so many ages and meant nothing all the while ?
No ; for those ages find utterance in the sea 's unchanging voice , and warn the listener to withdraw his interest from mortal vicissitudes and let the infinite idea of eternity pervade his soul .
This is wisdom , and therefore will I spend the next half-hour in shaping little boats of driftwood and launching them on voyages across the cove , with the feather of a sea-gull for a sail .
If the voice of ages tell me true , this is as wise an occupation as to build ships of five hundred tons and launch them forth upon the main , bound to `` Far Cathay . ''
Yet how would the merchant sneer at me !
And , after all , can such philosophy be true ?
Methinks I could find a thousand arguments against it .
Well , then , let yonder shaggy rock mid-deep in the surf -- see !
he is somewhat wrathful : he rages and roars and foams , -- let that tall rock be my antagonist , and let me exercise my oratory like him of Athens who bandied words with an angry sea and got the victory .
My maiden-speech is a triumphant one , for the gentleman in seaweed has nothing to offer in reply save an immitigable roaring .
His voice , indeed , will be heard a long while after mine is hushed .
Once more I shout and the cliffs reverberate the sound .
Oh what joy for a shy man to feel himself so solitary that he may lift his voice to its highest pitch without hazard of a listener !
-- But hush !
Be silent , my good friend !
Whence comes that stifled laughter ?
It was musical , but how should there be such music in my solitude ?
Looking upward , I catch a glimpse of three faces peeping from the summit of the cliff like angels between me and their native sky .
-- Ah , fair girls !
you may make yourself merry at my eloquence , but it was my turn to smile when I saw your white feet in the pool .
Let us keep each other 's secrets .
The sunshine has now passed from my hermitage , except a gleam upon the sand just where it meets the sea .
A crowd of gloomy fantasies will come and haunt me if I tarry longer here in the darkening twilight of these gray rocks .
This is a dismal place in some moods of the mind .
Climb we , therefore , the precipice , and pause a moment on the brink gazing down into that hollow chamber by the deep where we have been what few can be -- sufficient to our own pastime .
Yes , say the word outright : self-sufficient to our own happiness .
How lonesome looks the recess now , and dreary too , like all other spots where happiness has been !
There lies my shadow in the departing sunshine with its head upon the sea .
I will pelt it with pebbles .
A hit !
a hit !
I clap my hands in triumph , and see my shadow clapping its unreal hands and claiming the triumph for itself .
What a simpleton must I have been all day , since my own shadow makes a mock of my fooleries !
Homeward !
homeward !
It is time to hasten home .
It is time -- it is time ; for as the sun sinks over the western wave the sea grows melancholy and the surf has a saddened tone .
The distant sails appear astray and not of earth in their remoteness amid the desolate waste .
My spirit wanders forth afar , but finds no resting-place and comes shivering back .
It is time that I were hence .
But grudge me not the day that has been spent in seclusion which yet was not solitude , since the great sea has been my companion , and the little sea-birds my friends , and the wind has told me his secrets , and airy shapes have flitted around me in my hermitage .
Such companionship works an effect upon a man 's character as if he had been admitted to the society of creatures that are not mortal .
And when , at noontide , I tread the crowded streets , the influence of this day will still be felt ; so that I shall walk among men kindly and as a brother , with affection and sympathy , but yet shall not melt into the indistinguishable mass of humankind .
I shall think my own thoughts and feel my own emotions and possess my individuality unviolated .
But it is good at the eve of such a day to feel and know that there are men and women in the world .
That feeling and that knowledge are mine at this moment , for on the shore , far below me , the fishing-party have landed from their skiff and are cooking their scaly prey by a fire of driftwood kindled in the angle of two rude rocks .
The three visionary girls are likewise there .
In the deepening twilight , while the surf is dashing near their hearth , the ruddy gleam of the fire throws a strange air of comfort over the wild cove , bestrewn as it is with pebbles and seaweed and exposed to the `` melancholy main . ''
Moreover , as the smoke climbs up the precipice , it brings with it a savory smell from a pan of fried fish and a black kettle of chowder , and reminds me that my dinner was nothing but bread and water and a tuft of samphire and an apple .
Methinks the party might find room for another guest at that flat rock which serves them for a table ; and if spoons be scarce , I could pick up a clam-shell on the beach .
They see me now ; and -- the blessing of a hungry man upon him !
-- one of them sends up a hospitable shout : `` Halloo , Sir Solitary !
Come down and sup with us ! ''
The ladies wave their handkerchiefs .
Can I decline ?
No ; and be it owned , after all my solitary joys , that this is the sweetest moment of a day by the seashore .
EDWARD FANE 'S ROSEBUD .
There is hardly a more difficult exercise of fancy than , while gazing at a figure of melancholy age , to recreate its youth , and without entirely obliterating the identity of form and features to restore those graces which Time has snatched away .
Some old people -- especially women -- so age-worn and woeful are they , seem never to have been young and gay .
It is easier to conceive that such gloomy phantoms were sent into the world as withered and decrepit as we behold them now , with sympathies only for pain and grief , to watch at death-beds and weep at funerals .
Even the sable garments of their widowhood appear essential to their existence ; all their attributes combine to render them darksome shadows creeping strangely amid the sunshine of human life .
Yet it is no unprofitable task to take one of these doleful creatures and set Fancy resolutely at work to brighten the dim eye , and darken the silvery locks , and paint the ashen cheek with rose-color , and repair the shrunken and crazy form , till a dewy maiden shall be seen in the old matron 's elbow-chair .
The miracle being wrought , then let the years roll back again , each sadder than the last , and the whole weight of age and sorrow settle down upon the youthful figure .
Wrinkles and furrows , the handwriting of Time , may thus be deciphered and found to contain deep lessons of thought and feeling .
Such profit might be derived by a skilful observer from my much-respected friend the Widow Toothaker , a nurse of great repute who has breathed the atmosphere of sick-chambers and dying-breaths these forty years .
See !
she sits cowering over her lonesome hearth with her gown and upper petticoat drawn upward , gathering thriftily into her person the whole warmth of the fire which now at nightfall begins to dissipate the autumnal chill of her chamber .
The blaze quivers capriciously in front , alternately glimmering into the deepest chasms of her wrinkled visage , and then permitting a ghostly dimness to mar the outlines of her venerable figure .
And Nurse Toothaker holds a teaspoon in her right hand with which to stir up the contents of a tumbler in her left , whence steams a vapory fragrance abhorred of temperance societies .
Now she sips , now stirs , now sips again .
Her sad old heart has need to be revived by the rich infusion of Geneva which is mixed half and half with hot water in the tumbler .
All day long she has been sitting by a death-pillow , and quitted it for her home only when the spirit of her patient left the clay and went homeward too .
But now are her melancholy meditations cheered and her torpid blood warmed and her shoulders lightened of at least twenty ponderous years by a draught from the true fountain of youth in a case-bottle .
It is strange that men should deem that fount a fable , when its liquor fills more bottles than the Congress-water .
-- Sip it again , good nurse , and see whether a second draught will not take off another score of years , and perhaps ten more , and show us in your high-backed chair the blooming damsel who plighted troths with Edward Fane .
-- Get you gone , Age and Widowhood !
-- Come back , unwedded Youth !
-- But , alas !
the charm will not work .
In spite of Fancy 's most potent spell , I can see only an old dame cowering over the fire , a picture of decay and desolation , while the November blast roars at her in the chimney and fitful showers rush suddenly against the window .
Yet there was a time when Rose Grafton -- such was the pretty maiden-name of Nurse Toothaker -- possessed beauty that would have gladdened this dim and dismal chamber as with sunshine .
It won for her the heart of Edward Fane , who has since made so great a figure in the world and is now a grand old gentleman with powdered hair and as gouty as a lord .
These early lovers thought to have walked hand in hand through life .
They had wept together for Edward 's little sister Mary , whom Rose tended in her sickness -- partly because she was the sweetest child that ever lived or died , but more for love of him .
She was but three years old .
Being such an infant , Death could not embody his terrors in her little corpse ; nor did Rose fear to touch the dead child 's brow , though chill , as she curled the silken hair around it , nor to take her tiny hand and clasp a flower within its fingers .
Afterward , when she looked through the pane of glass in the coffin-lid and beheld Mary 's face , it seemed not so much like death or life as like a wax-work wrought into the perfect image of a child asleep and dreaming of its mother 's smile .
Rose thought her too fair a thing to be hidden in the grave , and wondered that an angel did not snatch up little Mary 's coffin and bear the slumbering babe to heaven and bid her wake immortal .
But when the sods were laid on little Mary , the heart of Rose was troubled .
She shuddered at the fantasy that in grasping the child 's cold fingers her virgin hand had exchanged a first greeting with mortality and could never lose the earthy taint .
How many a greeting since !
But as yet she was a fair young girl with the dewdrops of fresh feeling in her bosom , and , instead of `` Rose '' -- which seemed too mature a name for her half-opened beauty -- her lover called her `` Rosebud . ''
The rosebud was destined never to bloom for Edward Fane .
His mother was a rich and haughty dame with all the aristocratic prejudices of colonial times .
She scorned Rose Grafton 's humble parentage and caused her son to break his faith , though , had she let him choose , he would have prized his Rosebud above the richest diamond .
The lovers parted , and have seldom met again .
Both may have visited the same mansions , but not at the same time , for one was bidden to the festal hall and the other to the sick-chamber ; he was the guest of Pleasure and Prosperity , and she of Anguish .
Rose , after their separation , was long secluded within the dwelling of Mr. Toothaker , whom she married with the revengeful hope of breaking her false lover 's heart .
She went to her bridegroom 's arms with bitterer tears , they say , than young girls ought to shed at the threshold of the bridal-chamber .
Yet , though her husband 's head was getting gray and his heart had been chilled with an autumnal frost , Rose soon began to love him , and wondered at her own conjugal affection .
He was all she had to love ; there were no children .
In a year or two poor Mr. Toothaker was visited with a wearisome infirmity which settled in his joints and made him weaker than a child .
He crept forth about his business , and came home at dinner-time and eventide , not with the manly tread that gladdens a wife 's heart , but slowly , feebly , jotting down each dull footstep with a melancholy dub of his staff .
We must pardon his pretty wife if she sometimes blushed to own him .
Her visitors , when they heard him coming , looked for the appearance of some old , old man , but he dragged his nerveless limbs into the parlor -- and there was Mr. Toothaker !
The disease increasing , he never went into the sunshine save with a staff in his right hand and his left on his wife 's shoulder , bearing heavily downward like a dead man 's hand .
Thus , a slender woman still looking maiden-like , she supported his tall , broad-chested frame along the pathway of their little garden , and plucked the roses for her gray-haired husband , and spoke soothingly as to an infant .
His mind was palsied with his body ; its utmost energy was peevishness .
In a few months more she helped him up the staircase with a pause at every step , and a longer one upon the landing-place , and a heavy glance behind as he crossed the threshold of his chamber .
He knew , poor man !
that the precincts of those four walls would thenceforth be his world -- his world , his home , his tomb , at once a dwelling-and a burial-place -- till he were borne to a darker and a narrower one .
But Rose was with him in the tomb .
He leaned upon her in his daily passage from the bed to the chair by the fireside , and back again from the weary chair to the joyless bed -- his bed and hers , their marriage-bed -- till even this short journey ceased and his head lay all day upon the pillow and hers all night beside it .
How long poor Mr. Toothaker was kept in misery !
Death seemed to draw near the door , and often to lift the latch , and sometimes to thrust his ugly skull into the chamber , nodding to Rose and pointing at her husband , but still delayed to enter .
`` This bedridden wretch can not escape me , '' quoth Death .
`` I will go forth and run a race with the swift and fight a battle with the strong , and come back for Toothaker at my leisure . ''
Oh , when the deliverer came so near , in the dull anguish of her worn-out sympathies did she never long to cry , `` Death , come in '' ?
But no ; we have no right to ascribe such a wish to our friend Rose .
She never failed in a wife 's duty to her poor sick husband .
She murmured not though a glimpse of the sunny sky was as strange to her as him , nor answered peevishly though his complaining accents roused her from sweetest dream only to share his wretchedness .
He knew her faith , yet nourished a cankered jealousy ; and when the slow disease had chilled all his heart save one lukewarm spot which Death 's frozen fingers were searching for , his last words were , `` What would my Rose have done for her first love , if she has been so true and kind to a sick old man like me ? ''
And then his poor soul crept away and left the body lifeless , though hardly more so than for years before , and Rose a widow , though in truth it was the wedding-night that widowed her .
She felt glad , it must be owned , when Mr. Toothaker was buried , because his corpse had retained such a likeness to the man half alive that she hearkened for the sad murmur of his voice bidding her shift his pillow .
But all through the next winter , though the grave had held him many a month , she fancied him calling from that cold bed , `` Rose , Rose !
Come put a blanket on my feet ! ''
So now the Rosebud was the widow Toothaker .
Her troubles had come early , and , tedious as they seemed , had passed before all her bloom was fled .
She was still fair enough to captivate a bachelor , or with a widow 's cheerful gravity she might have won a widower , stealing into his heart in the very guise of his dead wife .
But the widow Toothaker had no such projects .
By her watchings and continual cares her heart had become knit to her first husband with a constancy which changed its very nature and made her love him for his infirmities , and infirmity for his sake .
When the palsied old man was gone , even her early lover could not have supplied his place .
She had dwelt in a sick-chamber and been the companion of a half-dead wretch till she could scarcely breathe in a free air and felt ill at ease with the healthy and the happy .
She missed the fragrance of the doctor 's stuff .
She walked the chamber with a noiseless footfall .
If visitors came in , she spoke in soft and soothing accents , and was startled and shocked by their loud voices .
Often in the lonesome evening she looked timorously from the fireside to the bed , with almost a hope of recognizing a ghastly face upon the pillow .
Then went her thoughts sadly to her husband 's grave .
If one impatient throb had wronged him in his lifetime , if she had secretly repined because her buoyant youth was imprisoned with his torpid age , if ever while slumbering beside him a treacherous dream had admitted another into her heart , -- yet the sick man had been preparing a revenge which the dead now claimed .
On his painful pillow he had cast a spell around her ; his groans and misery had proved more captivating charms than gayety and youthful grace ; in his semblance Disease itself had won the Rosebud for a bride , nor could his death dissolve the nuptials .
By that indissoluble bond she had gained a home in every sick-chamber , and nowhere else ; there were her brethren and sisters ; thither her husband summoned her with that voice which had seemed to issue from the grave of Toothaker .
At length she recognized her destiny .
We have beheld her as the maid , the wife , the widow ; now we see her in a separate and insulated character : she was in all her attributes Nurse Toothaker .
And Nurse Toothaker alone , with her own shrivelled lips , could make known her experience in that capacity .
What a history might she record of the great sicknesses in which she has gone hand in hand with the exterminating angel !
She remembers when the small-pox hoisted a red banner on almost every house along the street .
She has witnessed when the typhus fever swept off a whole household , young and old , all but a lonely mother , who vainly shrieked to follow her last loved one .
Where would be Death 's triumph if none lived to weep ?
She can speak of strange maladies that have broken out as if spontaneously , but were found to have been imported from foreign lands with rich silks and other merchandise , the costliest portion of the cargo .
And once , she recollects , the people died of what was considered a new pestilence , till the doctors traced it to the ancient grave of a young girl who thus caused many deaths a hundred years after her own burial .
Strange that such black mischief should lurk in a maiden 's grave !
She loves to tell how strong men fight with fiery fevers , utterly refusing to give up their breath , and how consumptive virgins fade out of the world , scarcely reluctant , as if their lovers were wooing them to a far country .
-- Tell us , thou fearful woman ; tell us the death-secrets .
Fain would I search out the meaning of words faintly gasped with intermingled sobs and broken sentences half-audibly spoken between earth and the judgment-seat .
An awful woman !
She is the patron-saint of young physicians and the bosom-friend of old ones .
In the mansions where she enters the inmates provide themselves black garments ; the coffin-maker follows her , and the bell tolls as she comes away from the threshold .
Death himself has met her at so many a bedside that he puts forth his bony hand to greet Nurse Toothaker .
She is an awful woman .
And oh , is it conceivable that this handmaid of human infirmity and affliction -- so darkly stained , so thoroughly imbued with all that is saddest in the doom of mortals -- can ever again be bright and gladsome even though bathed in the sunshine of eternity ?
By her long communion with woe has she not forfeited her inheritance of immortal joy ?
Does any germ of bliss survive within her ?
Hark !
an eager knocking st Nurse Toothaker 's door .
She starts from her drowsy reverie , sets aside the empty tumbler and teaspoon , and lights a lamp at the dim embers of the fire .
`` Rap , rap , rap ! ''
again , and she hurries adown the staircase , wondering which of her friends can be at death 's door now , since there is such an earnest messenger at Nurse Toothaker 's .
Again the peal resounds just as her hand is on the lock .
`` Be quick , Nurse Toothaker ! ''
cries a man on the doorstep .
`` Old General Fane is taken with the gout in his stomach and has sent for you to watch by his death-bed .
Make haste , for there is no time to lose . ''
-- `` Fane !
Edward Fane !
And has he sent for me at last ?
I am ready .
I will get on my cloak and begone .
So , '' adds the sable-gowned , ashen-visaged , funereal old figure , `` Edward Fane remembers his Rosebud . ''
Our question is answered .
There is a germ of bliss within her .
Her long-hoarded constancy , her memory of the bliss that was remaining amid the gloom of her after-life like a sweet-smelling flower in a coffin , is a symbol that all may be renewed .
In some happier clime the Rosebud may revive again with all the dewdrops in its bosom .
THE THREEFOLD DESTINY .
A FARY LEGEND .
I have sometimes produced a singular and not unpleasing effect , so far as my own mind was concerned , by imagining a train of incidents in which the spirit and mechanism of the fary legend should be combined with the characters and manners of familiar life .
In the little tale which follows a subdued tinge of the wild and wonderful is thrown over a sketch of New England personages and scenery , yet , it is hoped , without entirely obliterating the sober hues of nature .
Rather than a story of events claiming to be real , it may be considered as an allegory such as the writers of the last century would have expressed in the shape of an Eastern tale , but to which I have endeavored to give a more lifelike warmth than could be infused into those fanciful productions .
In the twilight of a summer eve a tall dark figure over which long and remote travel had thrown an outlandish aspect was entering a village not in `` fary londe , '' but within our own familiar boundaries .
The staff on which this traveller leaned had been his companion from the spot where it grew in the jungles of Hindostan ; the hat that overshadowed his sombre brow , had shielded him from the suns of Spain ; but his cheek had been blackened by the red-hot wind of an Arabian desert and had felt the frozen breath of an Arctic region .
Long sojourning amid wild and dangerous men , he still wore beneath his vest the ataghan which he had once struck into the throat of a Turkish robber .
In every foreign clime he had lost something of his New England characteristics , and perhaps from every people he had unconsciously borrowed a new peculiarity ; so that when the world-wanderer again trod the street of his native village it is no wonder that he passed unrecognized , though exciting the gaze and curiosity of all .
Yet , as his arm casually touched that of a young woman who was wending her way to an evening lecture , she started and almost uttered a cry .
`` Ralph Cranfield ! ''
was the name that she half articulated .
`` Can that be my old playmate Faith Egerton ? ''
thought the traveller , looking round at her figure , but without pausing .
Ralph Cranfield from his youth upward had felt himself marked out for a high destiny .
He had imbibed the idea -- we say not whether it were revealed to him by witchcraft or in a dream of prophecy , or that his brooding fancy had palmed its own dictates upon him as the oracles of a sybil , but he had imbibed the idea , and held it firmest among his articles of faith -- that three marvellous events of his life were to be confirmed to him by three signs .
The first of these three fatalities , and perhaps the one on which his youthful imagination had dwelt most fondly , was the discovery of the maid who alone of all the maids on earth could make him happy by her love .
He was to roam around the world till he should meet a beautiful woman wearing on her bosom a jewel in the shape of a heart -- whether of pearl or ruby or emerald or carbuncle or a changeful opal , or perhaps a priceless diamond , Ralph Cranfield little cared , so long as it were a heart of one peculiar shape .
On encountering this lovely stranger he was bound to address her thus : `` Maiden , I have brought you a heavy heart .
May I rest its weight on you ? ''
And if she were his fated bride -- if their kindred souls were destined to form a union here below which all eternity should only bind more closely -- she would reply , with her finger on the heart-shaped jewel , `` This token which I have worn so long is the assurance that you may . ''
And , secondly , Ralph Cranfield had a firm belief that there was a mighty treasure hidden somewhere in the earth of which the burial-place would be revealed to none but him .
When his feet should press upon the mysterious spot , there would be a hand before him pointing downward -- whether carved of marble or hewn in gigantic dimensions on the side of a rocky precipice , or perchance a hand of flame in empty air , he could not tell , but at least he would discern a hand , the forefinger pointing downward , and beneath it the Latin word '' Effode '' -- `` Dig ! ''
And , digging thereabouts , the gold in coin or ingots , the precious stones , or of whatever else the treasure might consist , would be certain to reward his toil .
The third and last of the miraculous events in the life of this high-destined man was to be the attainment of extensive influence and sway over his fellow-creatures .
Whether he were to be a king and founder of a hereditary throne , or the victorious leader of a people contending for their freedom , or the apostle of a purified and regenerated faith , was left for futurity to show .
As messengers of the sign by which Ralph Cranfield might recognize the summons , three venerable men were to claim audience of him .
The chief among them -- a dignified and majestic person arrayed , it may be supposed , in the flowing garments of an ancient sage -- would be the bearer of a wand or prophet 's rod .
With this wand or rod or staff the venerable sage would trace a certain figure in the air , and then proceed to make known his Heaven-instructed message , which , if obeyed , must lead to glorious results .
With this proud fate before him , in the flush of his imaginative youth Ralph Cranfield had set forth to seek the maid , the treasure , and the venerable sage with his gift of extended empire .
And had he found them ?
Alas !
it was not with the aspect of a triumphant man who had achieved a nobler destiny than all his fellows , but rather with the gloom of one struggling against peculiar and continual adversity , that he now passed homeward to his mother 's cottage .
He had come back , but only for a time , to lay aside the pilgrim 's staff , trusting that his weary manhood would regain somewhat of the elasticity of youth in the spot where his threefold fate had been foreshown him .
There had been few changes in the village , for it was not one of those thriving places where a year 's prosperity makes more than the havoc of a century 's decay , but , like a gray hair in a young man 's head , an antiquated little town full of old maids and aged elms and moss-grown dwellings .
Few seemed to be the changes here .
The drooping elms , indeed , had a more majestic spread , the weather-blackened houses were adorned with a denser thatch of verdant moss , and doubtless there were a few more gravestones in the burial-ground inscribed with names that had once been familiar in the village street ; yet , summing up all the mischief that ten years had wrought , it seemed scarcely more than if Ralph Cranfield had gone forth that very morning and dreamed a day-dream till the twilight , and then turned back again .
But his heart grew cold because the village did not remember him as he remembered the village .
`` Here is the change , '' sighed he , striking his hand upon his breast .
`` Who is this man of thought and care , weary with world-wandering and heavy with disappointed hopes ?
The youth returns not who went forth so joyously . ''
And now Ralph Cranfield was at his mother 's gate , in front of the small house where the old lady , with slender but sufficient means , had kept herself comfortable during her son 's long absence .
Admitting himself within the enclosure , he leaned against a great old tree , trifling with his own impatience as people often do in those intervals when years are summed into a moment .
He took a minute survey of the dwelling -- its windows brightened with the sky-gleam , its doorway with the half of a millstone for a step , and the faintly-traced path waving thence to the gate .
He made friends again with his childhood 's friend -- the old tree against which he leaned -- and , glancing his eye down its trunk , beheld something that excited a melancholy smile .
It was a half-obliterated inscription -- the Latin word '' Effode '' -- which he remembered to have carved in the bark of the tree with a whole day 's toil when he had first begun to muse about his exalted destiny .
It might be accounted a rather singular coincidence that the bark just above the inscription had put forth an excrescence shaped not unlike a hand , with the forefinger pointing obliquely at the word of fate .
Such , at least , was its appearance in the dusky light .
`` Now , a credulous man , '' said Ralph Cranfield , carelessly , to himself , `` might suppose that the treasure which I have sought round the world lies buried , after all , at the very door of my mother 's dwelling .
That would be a jest indeed . ''
More he thought not about the matter , for now the door was opened and an elderly woman appeared on the threshold , peering into the dusk to discover who it might be that had intruded on her premises and was standing in the shadow of her tree .
It was Ralph Cranfield 's mother .
Pass we over their greeting , and leave the one to her joy and the other to his rest -- if quiet rest he found .
But when morning broke , he arose with a troubled brow , for his sleep and his wakefulness had alike been full of dreams .
All the fervor was rekindled with which he had burned of yore to unravel the threefold mystery of his fate .
The crowd of his early visions seemed to have awaited him beneath his mother 's roof and thronged riotously around to welcome his return .
In the well-remembered chamber , on the pillow where his infancy had slumbered , he had passed a wilder night than ever in an Arab tent or when he had reposed his head in the ghastly shades of a haunted forest .
A shadowy maid had stolen to his bedside and laid her finger on the scintillating heart ; a hand of flame had glowed amid the darkness , pointing downward to a mystery within the earth ; a hoary sage had waved his prophetic wand and beckoned the dreamer onward to a chair of state .
The same phantoms , though fainter in the daylight , still flitted about , the cottage and mingled among the crowd of familiar faces that were drawn thither by the news of Ralph Cranfield 's return to bid him welcome for his mother 's sake .
There they found him , a tall , dark , stately man of foreign aspect , courteous in demeanor and mild of speech , yet with an abstracted eye which seemed often to snatch a glance at the invisible .
Meantime , the widow Cranfield went bustling about the house full of joy that she again had somebody to love and be careful of , and for whom she might vex and tease herself with the petty troubles of daily life .
It was nearly noon when she looked forth from the door and descried three personages of note coming along the street through the hot sunshine and the masses of elm-tree shade .
At length they reached her gate and undid the latch .
`` See , Ralph ! ''
exclaimed she , with maternal pride ; `` here is Squire Hawkwood and the two other selectmen coming on purpose to see you .
Now , do tell them a good long story about what you have seen in foreign parts . ''
The foremost of the three visitors , Squire Hawkwood , was a very pompous but excellent old gentleman , the head and prime-mover in all the affairs of the village , and universally acknowledged to be one of the sagest men on earth .
He wore , according to a fashion even then becoming antiquated , a three-cornered hat , and carried a silver-headed cane the use of which seemed to be rather for flourishing in the air than for assisting the progress of his legs .
His two companions were elderly and respectable yeomen who , retaining an ante-Revolutionary reverence for rank and hereditary wealth , kept a little in the squire 's rear .
As they approached along the pathway Ralph Cranfield sat in an oaken elbow-chair half unconsciously gazing at the three visitors and enveloping their homely figures in the misty romance that pervaded his mental world .
`` Here , '' thought he , smiling at the conceit -- `` here come three elderly personages , and the first of the three is a venerable sage with a staff .
What if this embassy should bring me the message of my fate ? ''
While Squire Hawkwood and his colleagues entered , Ralph rose from his seat and advanced a few steps to receive them , and his stately figure and dark countenance as he bent courteously toward his guests had a natural dignity contrasting well with the bustling importance of the squire .
The old gentleman , according to invariable custom , gave an elaborate preliminary flourish with his cane in the air , then removed his three-cornered hat in order to wipe his brow , and finally proceeded to make known his errand .
`` My colleagues and myself , '' began the squire , `` are burdened with momentous duties , being jointly selectmen of this village .
Our minds for the space of three days past have been laboriously bent on the selection of a suitable person to fill a most important office and take upon himself a charge and rule which , wisely considered , may be ranked no lower than those of kings and potentates .
And whereas you , our native townsman , are of good natural intellect and well cultivated by foreign travel , and that certain vagaries and fantasies of your youth are doubtless long ago corrected , -- taking all these matters , I say , into due consideration , we are of opinion that Providence hath sent you hither at this juncture for our very purpose . ''
During this harangue Cranfield gazed fixedly at the speaker , as if he beheld something mysterious and unearthly in his pompous little figure , and as if the squire had worn the flowing robes of an ancient sage instead of a square-skirted coat , flapped waistcoat , velvet breeches and silk stockings .
Nor was his wonder without sufficient cause , for the flourish of the squire 's staff , marvellous to relate , had described precisely the signal in the air which was to ratify the message of the prophetic sage whom Cranfield had sought around the world .
`` And what , '' inquired Ralph Cranfield , with a tremor in his voice -- `` what may this office be which is to equal me with kings and potentates ? ''
`` No less than instructor of our village school , '' answered Squire Hawkwood , `` the office being now vacant by the death of the venerable Master Whitaker after a fifty years ' incumbency . ''
`` I will consider of your proposal , '' replied Ralph Cranfield , hurriedly , `` and will make known my decision within three days . ''
After a few more words the village dignitary and his companions took their leave .
But to Cranfield 's fancy their images were still present , and became more and more invested with the dim awfulness of figures which had first appeared to him in a dream , and afterward had shown themselves in his waking moments , assuming homely aspects among familiar things .
His mind dwelt upon the features of the squire till they grew confused with those of the visionary sage and one appeared but the shadow of the other .
The same visage , he now thought , had looked forth upon him from the Pyramid of Cheops ; the same form had beckoned to him among the colonnades of the Alhambra ; the same figure had mistily revealed itself through the ascending steam of the Great Geyser .
At every effort of his memory he recognized some trait of the dreamy messenger of destiny in this pompous , bustling , self-important , little-great man of the village .
Amid such musings Ralph Cranfield sat all day in the cottage , scarcely hearing and vaguely answering his mother 's thousand questions about his travels and adventures .
At sunset he roused himself to take a stroll , and , passing the aged elm tree , his eye was again caught by the semblance of a hand pointing downward at the half-obliterated inscription .
As Cranfield walked down the street of the village the level sunbeams threw his shadow far before him , and he fancied that , as his shadow walked among distant objects , so had there been a presentiment stalking in advance of him throughout his life .
And when he drew near each object over which his tall shadow had preceded him , still it proved to be one of the familiar recollections of his infancy and youth .
Every crook in the pathway was remembered .
Even the more transitory characteristics of the scene were the same as in by-gone days .
A company of cows were grazing on the grassy roadside , and refreshed him with their fragrant breath .
`` It is sweeter , '' thought he , `` than the perfume which was wafted to our ship from the Spice Islands . ''
The round little figure of a child rolled from a doorway and lay laughing almost beneath Cranfield 's feet .
The dark and stately man stooped down , and , lifting the infant , restored him to his mother 's arms .
`` The children , '' said he to himself , and sighed and smiled -- `` the children are to be my charge . ''
And while a flow of natural feeling gushed like a well-spring in his heart he came to a dwelling which he could nowise forbear to enter .
A sweet voice which seemed to come from a deep and tender soul was warbling a plaintive little air within .
He bent his head and passed through the lowly door .
As his foot sounded upon the threshold a young woman advanced from the dusky interior of the house , at first hastily , and then with a more uncertain step , till they met face to face .
There was a singular contrast in their two figures -- he dark and picturesque , one who had battled with the world , whom all suns had shone upon and whom all winds had blown on a varied course ; she neat , comely and quiet -- quiet even in her agitation -- as if all her emotions had been subdued to the peaceful tenor of her life .
Yet their faces , all unlike as they were , had an expression that seemed not so alien -- a glow of kindred feeling flashing upward anew from half-extinguished embers .
`` You are welcome home , '' said Faith Egerton .
But Cranfield did not immediately answer , for his eye had , been caught by an ornament in the shape of a heart which Faith wore as a brooch upon her bosom .
The material was the ordinary white quartz , and he recollected having himself shaped it out of one of those Indian arrowheads which are so often found in the ancient haunts of the red men .
It was precisely on the pattern of that worn by the visionary maid .
When Cranfield departed on his shadowy search , he had bestowed this brooch , in a gold setting , as a parting gift to Faith Egerton .
`` So , Faith , you have kept the heart ? ''
said he , at length .
`` Yes , '' said she , blushing deeply ; then , more gayly , `` And what else have you brought me from beyond the sea ? ''
`` Faith , '' replied Ralph Cranfield , uttering the fated words by an uncontrollable impulse , `` I have brought you nothing but a heavy heart .
May I rest its weight on you ? ''
`` This token which I have worn so long , '' said Faith , laying her tremulous finger on the heart , `` is the assurance that you may . ''
`` Faith , Faith ! ''
cried Cranfield , clasping her in his arms ; `` you have interpreted my wild and weary dream ! ''
Yes , the wild dreamer was awake at last .
To find the mysterious treasure he was to till the earth around his mother 's dwelling and reap its products ; instead of warlike command or regal or religious sway , he was to rule over the village children ; and now the visionary maid had faded from his fancy , and in her place he saw the playmate of his childhood .
Would all who cherish such wild wishes but look around them , they would oftenest find their sphere of duty , of prosperity and happiness , within those precincts and in that station where Providence itself has cast their lot .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Oscar_Wilde___The_Happy_Prince_and_Other_Tales.txt.out
High above the city , on a tall column , stood the statue of the Happy Prince .
He was gilded all over with thin leaves of fine gold , for eyes he had two bright sapphires , and a large red ruby glowed on his sword-hilt .
He was very much admired indeed .
`` He is as beautiful as a weathercock , '' remarked one of the Town Councillors who wished to gain a reputation for having artistic tastes ; `` only not quite so useful , '' he added , fearing lest people should think him unpractical , which he really was not .
`` Why ca n't you be like the Happy Prince ? ''
asked a sensible mother of her little boy who was crying for the moon .
`` The Happy Prince never dreams of crying for anything . ''
`` I am glad there is some one in the world who is quite happy , '' muttered a disappointed man as he gazed at the wonderful statue .
`` He looks just like an angel , '' said the Charity Children as they came out of the cathedral in their bright scarlet cloaks and their clean white pinafores .
`` How do you know ? ''
said the Mathematical Master , `` you have never seen one . ''
`` Ah !
but we have , in our dreams , '' answered the children ; and the Mathematical Master frowned and looked very severe , for he did not approve of children dreaming .
One night there flew over the city a little Swallow .
His friends had gone away to Egypt six weeks before , but he had stayed behind , for he was in love with the most beautiful Reed .
He had met her early in the spring as he was flying down the river after a big yellow moth , and had been so attracted by her slender waist that he had stopped to talk to her .
`` Shall I love you ? ''
said the Swallow , who liked to come to the point at once , and the Reed made him a low bow .
So he flew round and round her , touching the water with his wings , and making silver ripples .
This was his courtship , and it lasted all through the summer .
`` It is a ridiculous attachment , '' twittered the other Swallows ; `` she has no money , and far too many relations '' ; and indeed the river was quite full of Reeds .
Then , when the autumn came they all flew away .
After they had gone he felt lonely , and began to tire of his lady - love .
`` She has no conversation , '' he said , `` and I am afraid that she is a coquette , for she is always flirting with the wind . ''
And certainly , whenever the wind blew , the Reed made the most graceful curtseys .
`` I admit that she is domestic , '' he continued , `` but I love travelling , and my wife , consequently , should love travelling also . ''
`` Will you come away with me ? ''
he said finally to her ; but the Reed shook her head , she was so attached to her home .
`` You have been trifling with me , '' he cried .
`` I am off to the Pyramids .
Good-bye ! ''
and he flew away .
All day long he flew , and at night-time he arrived at the city .
`` Where shall I put up ? ''
he said ; `` I hope the town has made preparations . ''
Then he saw the statue on the tall column .
`` I will put up there , '' he cried ; `` it is a fine position , with plenty of fresh air . ''
So he alighted just between the feet of the Happy Prince .
`` I have a golden bedroom , '' he said softly to himself as he looked round , and he prepared to go to sleep ; but just as he was putting his head under his wing a large drop of water fell on him .
`` What a curious thing ! ''
he cried ; `` there is not a single cloud in the sky , the stars are quite clear and bright , and yet it is raining .
The climate in the north of Europe is really dreadful .
The Reed used to like the rain , but that was merely her selfishness . ''
Then another drop fell .
`` What is the use of a statue if it can not keep the rain off ? ''
he said ; `` I must look for a good chimney-pot , '' and he determined to fly away .
But before he had opened his wings , a third drop fell , and he looked up , and saw -- Ah !
what did he see ?
The eyes of the Happy Prince were filled with tears , and tears were running down his golden cheeks .
His face was so beautiful in the moonlight that the little Swallow was filled with pity .
`` Who are you ? ''
he said .
`` I am the Happy Prince . ''
`` Why are you weeping then ? ''
asked the Swallow ; `` you have quite drenched me . ''
`` When I was alive and had a human heart , '' answered the statue , `` I did not know what tears were , for I lived in the Palace of Sans - Souci , where sorrow is not allowed to enter .
In the daytime I played with my companions in the garden , and in the evening I led the dance in the Great Hall .
Round the garden ran a very lofty wall , but I never cared to ask what lay beyond it , everything about me was so beautiful .
My courtiers called me the Happy Prince , and happy indeed I was , if pleasure be happiness .
So I lived , and so I died .
And now that I am dead they have set me up here so high that I can see all the ugliness and all the misery of my city , and though my heart is made of lead yet I can not chose but weep . ''
`` What !
is he not solid gold ? ''
said the Swallow to himself .
He was too polite to make any personal remarks out loud .
`` Far away , '' continued the statue in a low musical voice , `` far away in a little street there is a poor house .
One of the windows is open , and through it I can see a woman seated at a table .
Her face is thin and worn , and she has coarse , red hands , all pricked by the needle , for she is a seamstress .
She is embroidering passion - flowers on a satin gown for the loveliest of the Queen 's maids-of - honour to wear at the next Court-ball .
In a bed in the corner of the room her little boy is lying ill .
He has a fever , and is asking for oranges .
His mother has nothing to give him but river water , so he is crying .
Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , will you not bring her the ruby out of my sword-hilt ?
My feet are fastened to this pedestal and I can not move . ''
`` I am waited for in Egypt , '' said the Swallow .
`` My friends are flying up and down the Nile , and talking to the large lotus - flowers .
Soon they will go to sleep in the tomb of the great King .
The King is there himself in his painted coffin .
He is wrapped in yellow linen , and embalmed with spices .
Round his neck is a chain of pale green jade , and his hands are like withered leaves . ''
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` will you not stay with me for one night , and be my messenger ?
The boy is so thirsty , and the mother so sad . ''
`` I do n't think I like boys , '' answered the Swallow .
`` Last summer , when I was staying on the river , there were two rude boys , the miller 's sons , who were always throwing stones at me .
They never hit me , of course ; we swallows fly far too well for that , and besides , I come of a family famous for its agility ; but still , it was a mark of disrespect . ''
But the Happy Prince looked so sad that the little Swallow was sorry .
`` It is very cold here , '' he said ; `` but I will stay with you for one night , and be your messenger . ''
`` Thank you , little Swallow , '' said the Prince .
So the Swallow picked out the great ruby from the Prince 's sword , and flew away with it in his beak over the roofs of the town .
He passed by the cathedral tower , where the white marble angels were sculptured .
He passed by the palace and heard the sound of dancing .
A beautiful girl came out on the balcony with her lover .
`` How wonderful the stars are , '' he said to her , `` and how wonderful is the power of love ! ''
`` I hope my dress will be ready in time for the State-ball , '' she answered ; `` I have ordered passion-flowers to be embroidered on it ; but the seamstresses are so lazy . ''
He passed over the river , and saw the lanterns hanging to the masts of the ships .
He passed over the Ghetto , and saw the old Jews bargaining with each other , and weighing out money in copper scales .
At last he came to the poor house and looked in .
The boy was tossing feverishly on his bed , and the mother had fallen asleep , she was so tired .
In he hopped , and laid the great ruby on the table beside the woman 's thimble .
Then he flew gently round the bed , fanning the boy 's forehead with his wings .
`` How cool I feel , '' said the boy , `` I must be getting better '' ; and he sank into a delicious slumber .
Then the Swallow flew back to the Happy Prince , and told him what he had done .
`` It is curious , '' he remarked , `` but I feel quite warm now , although it is so cold . ''
`` That is because you have done a good action , '' said the Prince .
And the little Swallow began to think , and then he fell asleep .
Thinking always made him sleepy .
When day broke he flew down to the river and had a bath .
`` What a remarkable phenomenon , '' said the Professor of Ornithology as he was passing over the bridge .
`` A swallow in winter ! ''
And he wrote a long letter about it to the local newspaper .
Every one quoted it , it was full of so many words that they could not understand .
`` To-night I go to Egypt , '' said the Swallow , and he was in high spirits at the prospect .
He visited all the public monuments , and sat a long time on top of the church steeple .
Wherever he went the Sparrows chirruped , and said to each other , `` What a distinguished stranger ! ''
so he enjoyed himself very much .
When the moon rose he flew back to the Happy Prince .
`` Have you any commissions for Egypt ? ''
he cried ; `` I am just starting . ''
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` will you not stay with me one night longer ? ''
`` I am waited for in Egypt , '' answered the Swallow .
`` To-morrow my friends will fly up to the Second Cataract .
The river-horse couches there among the bulrushes , and on a great granite throne sits the God Memnon .
All night long he watches the stars , and when the morning star shines he utters one cry of joy , and then he is silent .
At noon the yellow lions come down to the water 's edge to drink .
They have eyes like green beryls , and their roar is louder than the roar of the cataract .
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` far away across the city I see a young man in a garret .
He is leaning over a desk covered with papers , and in a tumbler by his side there is a bunch of withered violets .
His hair is brown and crisp , and his lips are red as a pomegranate , and he has large and dreamy eyes .
He is trying to finish a play for the Director of the Theatre , but he is too cold to write any more .
There is no fire in the grate , and hunger has made him faint . ''
`` I will wait with you one night longer , '' said the Swallow , who really had a good heart .
`` Shall I take him another ruby ? ''
`` Alas !
I have no ruby now , '' said the Prince ; `` my eyes are all that I have left .
They are made of rare sapphires , which were brought out of India a thousand years ago .
Pluck out one of them and take it to him .
He will sell it to the jeweller , and buy food and firewood , and finish his play . ''
`` Dear Prince , '' said the Swallow , `` I can not do that '' ; and he began to weep .
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` do as I command you . ''
So the Swallow plucked out the Prince 's eye , and flew away to the student 's garret .
It was easy enough to get in , as there was a hole in the roof .
Through this he darted , and came into the room .
The young man had his head buried in his hands , so he did not hear the flutter of the bird 's wings , and when he looked up he found the beautiful sapphire lying on the withered violets .
`` I am beginning to be appreciated , '' he cried ; `` this is from some great admirer .
Now I can finish my play , '' and he looked quite happy .
The next day the Swallow flew down to the harbour .
He sat on the mast of a large vessel and watched the sailors hauling big chests out of the hold with ropes .
`` Heave a-hoy ! ''
they shouted as each chest came up .
`` I am going to Egypt '' !
cried the Swallow , but nobody minded , and when the moon rose he flew back to the Happy Prince .
`` I am come to bid you good-bye , '' he cried .
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` will you not stay with me one night longer ? ''
`` It is winter , '' answered the Swallow , `` and the chill snow will soon be here .
In Egypt the sun is warm on the green palm-trees , and the crocodiles lie in the mud and look lazily about them .
My companions are building a nest in the Temple of Baalbec , and the pink and white doves are watching them , and cooing to each other .
Dear Prince , I must leave you , but I will never forget you , and next spring I will bring you back two beautiful jewels in place of those you have given away .
The ruby shall be redder than a red rose , and the sapphire shall be as blue as the great sea . ''
`` In the square below , '' said the Happy Prince , `` there stands a little match-girl .
She has let her matches fall in the gutter , and they are all spoiled .
Her father will beat her if she does not bring home some money , and she is crying .
She has no shoes or stockings , and her little head is bare .
Pluck out my other eye , and give it to her , and her father will not beat her . ''
`` I will stay with you one night longer , '' said the Swallow , `` but I can not pluck out your eye .
You would be quite blind then . ''
`` Swallow , Swallow , little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` do as I command you . ''
So he plucked out the Prince 's other eye , and darted down with it .
He swooped past the match-girl , and slipped the jewel into the palm of her hand .
`` What a lovely bit of glass , '' cried the little girl ; and she ran home , laughing .
Then the Swallow came back to the Prince .
`` You are blind now , '' he said , `` so I will stay with you always . ''
`` No , little Swallow , '' said the poor Prince , `` you must go away to Egypt . ''
`` I will stay with you always , '' said the Swallow , and he slept at the Prince 's feet .
All the next day he sat on the Prince 's shoulder , and told him stories of what he had seen in strange lands .
He told him of the red ibises , who stand in long rows on the banks of the Nile , and catch gold-fish in their beaks ; of the Sphinx , who is as old as the world itself , and lives in the desert , and knows everything ; of the merchants , who walk slowly by the side of their camels , and carry amber beads in their hands ; of the King of the Mountains of the Moon , who is as black as ebony , and worships a large crystal ; of the great green snake that sleeps in a palm-tree , and has twenty priests to feed it with honey-cakes ; and of the pygmies who sail over a big lake on large flat leaves , and are always at war with the butterflies .
`` Dear little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` you tell me of marvellous things , but more marvellous than anything is the suffering of men and of women .
There is no Mystery so great as Misery .
Fly over my city , little Swallow , and tell me what you see there . ''
So the Swallow flew over the great city , and saw the rich making merry in their beautiful houses , while the beggars were sitting at the gates .
He flew into dark lanes , and saw the white faces of starving children looking out listlessly at the black streets .
Under the archway of a bridge two little boys were lying in one another 's arms to try and keep themselves warm .
`` How hungry we are ! ''
they said .
`` You must not lie here , '' shouted the Watchman , and they wandered out into the rain .
Then he flew back and told the Prince what he had seen .
`` I am covered with fine gold , '' said the Prince , `` you must take it off , leaf by leaf , and give it to my poor ; the living always think that gold can make them happy . ''
Leaf after leaf of the fine gold the Swallow picked off , till the Happy Prince looked quite dull and grey .
Leaf after leaf of the fine gold he brought to the poor , and the children 's faces grew rosier , and they laughed and played games in the street .
`` We have bread now ! ''
they cried .
Then the snow came , and after the snow came the frost .
The streets looked as if they were made of silver , they were so bright and glistening ; long icicles like crystal daggers hung down from the eaves of the houses , everybody went about in furs , and the little boys wore scarlet caps and skated on the ice .
The poor little Swallow grew colder and colder , but he would not leave the Prince , he loved him too well .
He picked up crumbs outside the baker 's door when the baker was not looking and tried to keep himself warm by flapping his wings .
But at last he knew that he was going to die .
He had just strength to fly up to the Prince 's shoulder once more .
`` Good-bye , dear Prince ! ''
he murmured , `` will you let me kiss your hand ? ''
`` I am glad that you are going to Egypt at last , little Swallow , '' said the Prince , `` you have stayed too long here ; but you must kiss me on the lips , for I love you . ''
`` It is not to Egypt that I am going , '' said the Swallow .
`` I am going to the House of Death .
Death is the brother of Sleep , is he not ? ''
And he kissed the Happy Prince on the lips , and fell down dead at his feet .
At that moment a curious crack sounded inside the statue , as if something had broken .
The fact is that the leaden heart had snapped right in two .
It certainly was a dreadfully hard frost .
Early the next morning the Mayor was walking in the square below in company with the Town Councillors .
As they passed the column he looked up at the statue : `` Dear me !
how shabby the Happy Prince looks ! ''
he said .
`` How shabby indeed ! ''
cried the Town Councillors , who always agreed with the Mayor ; and they went up to look at it .
`` The ruby has fallen out of his sword , his eyes are gone , and he is golden no longer , '' said the Mayor in fact , `` he is litttle beter than a beggar ! ''
`` Little better than a beggar , '' said the Town Councillors .
`` And here is actually a dead bird at his feet ! ''
continued the Mayor .
`` We must really issue a proclamation that birds are not to be allowed to die here . ''
And the Town Clerk made a note of the suggestion .
So they pulled down the statue of the Happy Prince .
`` As he is no longer beautiful he is no longer useful , '' said the Art Professor at the University .
Then they melted the statue in a furnace , and the Mayor held a meeting of the Corporation to decide what was to be done with the metal .
`` We must have another statue , of course , '' he said , `` and it shall be a statue of myself . ''
`` Of myself , '' said each of the Town Councillors , and they quarrelled .
When I last heard of them they were quarrelling still .
`` What a strange thing ! ''
said the overseer of the workmen at the foundry .
`` This broken lead heart will not melt in the furnace .
We must throw it away . ''
So they threw it on a dust-heap where the dead Swallow was also lying .
`` Bring me the two most precious things in the city , '' said God to one of His Angels ; and the Angel brought Him the leaden heart and the dead bird .
`` You have rightly chosen , '' said God , `` for in my garden of Paradise this little bird shall sing for evermore , and in my city of gold the Happy Prince shall praise me . ''
THE NIGHTINGALE AND THE ROSE `` She said that she would dance with me if I brought her red roses , '' cried the young Student ; `` but in all my garden there is no red rose . ''
From her nest in the holm-oak tree the Nightingale heard him , and she looked out through the leaves , and wondered .
`` No red rose in all my garden ! ''
he cried , and his beautiful eyes filled with tears .
`` Ah , on what little things does happiness depend !
I have read all that the wise men have written , and all the secrets of philosophy are mine , yet for want of a red rose is my life made wretched . ''
`` Here at last is a true lover , '' said the Nightingale .
`` Night after night have I sung of him , though I knew him not : night after night have I told his story to the stars , and now I see him .
His hair is dark as the hyacinth-blossom , and his lips are red as the rose of his desire ; but passion has made his face like pale ivory , and sorrow has set her seal upon his brow . ''
`` The Prince gives a ball to-morrow night , '' murmured the young Student , `` and my love will be of the company .
If I bring her a red rose she will dance with me till dawn .
If I bring her a red rose , I shall hold her in my arms , and she will lean her head upon my shoulder , and her hand will be clasped in mine .
But there is no red rose in my garden , so I shall sit lonely , and she will pass me by .
She will have no heed of me , and my heart will break . ''
`` Here indeed is the true lover , '' said the Nightingale .
`` What I sing of , he suffers -- what is joy to me , to him is pain .
Surely Love is a wonderful thing .
It is more precious than emeralds , and dearer than fine opals .
Pearls and pomegranates can not buy it , nor is it set forth in the marketplace .
It may not be purchased of the merchants , nor can it be weighed out in the balance for gold . ''
`` The musicians will sit in their gallery , '' said the young Student , `` and play upon their stringed instruments , and my love will dance to the sound of the harp and the violin .
She will dance so lightly that her feet will not touch the floor , and the courtiers in their gay dresses will throng round her .
But with me she will not dance , for I have no red rose to give her '' ; and he flung himself down on the grass , and buried his face in his hands , and wept .
`` Why is he weeping ? ''
asked a little Green Lizard , as he ran past him with his tail in the air .
`` Why , indeed ? ''
said a Butterfly , who was fluttering about after a sunbeam .
`` Why , indeed ? ''
whispered a Daisy to his neighbour , in a soft , low voice .
`` He is weeping for a red rose , '' said the Nightingale .
`` For a red rose ? ''
they cried ; `` how very ridiculous ! ''
and the little Lizard , who was something of a cynic , laughed outright .
But the Nightingale understood the secret of the Student 's sorrow , and she sat silent in the oak-tree , and thought about the mystery of Love .
Suddenly she spread her brown wings for flight , and soared into the air .
She passed through the grove like a shadow , and like a shadow she sailed across the garden .
In the centre of the grass-plot was standing a beautiful Rose-tree , and when she saw it she flew over to it , and lit upon a spray .
`` Give me a red rose , '' she cried , `` and I will sing you my sweetest song . ''
But the Tree shook its head .
`` My roses are white , '' it answered ; `` as white as the foam of the sea , and whiter than the snow upon the mountain .
But go to my brother who grows round the old sun-dial , and perhaps he will give you what you want . ''
So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing round the old sun-dial .
`` Give me a red rose , '' she cried , `` and I will sing you my sweetest song . ''
But the Tree shook its head .
`` My roses are yellow , '' it answered ; `` as yellow as the hair of the mermaiden who sits upon an amber throne , and yellower than the daffodil that blooms in the meadow before the mower comes with his scythe .
But go to my brother who grows beneath the Student 's window , and perhaps he will give you what you want . ''
So the Nightingale flew over to the Rose-tree that was growing beneath the Student 's window .
`` Give me a red rose , '' she cried , `` and I will sing you my sweetest song . ''
But the Tree shook its head .
`` My roses are red , '' it answered , `` as red as the feet of the dove , and redder than the great fans of coral that wave and wave in the ocean-cavern .
But the winter has chilled my veins , and the frost has nipped my buds , and the storm has broken my branches , and I shall have no roses at all this year . ''
`` One red rose is all I want , '' cried the Nightingale , `` only one red rose !
Is there no way by which I can get it ? ''
`` There is away , '' answered the Tree ; `` but it is so terrible that I dare not tell it to you . ''
`` Tell it to me , '' said the Nightingale , `` I am not afraid . ''
`` If you want a red rose , '' said the Tree , `` you must build it out of music by moonlight , and stain it with your own heart 's - blood .
You must sing to me with your breast against a thorn .
All night long you must sing to me , and the thorn must pierce your heart , and your life-blood must flow into my veins , and become mine . ''
`` Death is a great price to pay for a red rose , '' cried the Nightingale , `` and Life is very dear to all .
It is pleasant to sit in the green wood , and to watch the Sun in his chariot of gold , and the Moon in her chariot of pearl .
Sweet is the scent of the hawthorn , and sweet are the bluebells that hide in the valley , and the heather that blows on the hill .
Yet Love is better than Life , and what is the heart of a bird compared to the heart of a man ? ''
So she spread her brown wings for flight , and soared into the air .
She swept over the garden like a shadow , and like a shadow she sailed through the grove .
The young Student was still lying on the grass , where she had left him , and the tears were not yet dry in his beautiful eyes .
`` Be happy , '' cried the Nightingale , `` be happy ; you shall have your red rose .
I will build it out of music by moonlight , and stain it with my own heart 's - blood .
All that I ask of you in return is that you will be a true lover , for Love is wiser than Philosophy , though she is wise , and mightier than Power , though he is mighty .
Flame - coloured are his wings , and coloured like flame is his body .
His lips are sweet as honey , and his breath is like frankincense . ''
The Student looked up from the grass , and listened , but he could not understand what the Nightingale was saying to him , for he only knew the things that are written down in books .
But the Oak-tree understood , and felt sad , for he was very fond of the little Nightingale who had built her nest in his branches .
`` Sing me one last song , '' he whispered ; `` I shall feel very lonely when you are gone . ''
So the Nightingale sang to the Oak-tree , and her voice was like water bubbling from a silver jar .
When she had finished her song the Student got up , and pulled a note-book and a lead-pencil out of his pocket .
`` She has form , '' he said to himself , as he walked away through the grove -- `` that can not be denied to her ; but has she got feeling ?
I am afraid not .
In fact , she is like most artists ; she is all style , without any sincerity .
She would not sacrifice herself for others .
She thinks merely of music , and everybody knows that the arts are selfish .
Still , it must be admitted that she has some beautiful notes in her voice .
What a pity it is that they do not mean anything , or do any practical good . ''
And he went into his room , and lay down on his little pallet-bed , and began to think of his love ; and , after a time , he fell asleep .
And when the Moon shone in the heavens the Nightingale flew to the Rose-tree , and set her breast against the thorn .
All night long she sang with her breast against the thorn , and the cold crystal Moon leaned down and listened .
All night long she sang , and the thorn went deeper and deeper into her breast , and her life-blood ebbed away from her .
She sang first of the birth of love in the heart of a boy and a girl .
And on the top-most spray of the Rose-tree there blossomed a marvellous rose , petal following petal , as song followed song .
Pale was it , at first , as the mist that hangs over the river -- pale as the feet of the morning , and silver as the wings of the dawn .
As the shadow of a rose in a mirror of silver , as the shadow of a rose in a water-pool , so was the rose that blossomed on the topmost spray of the Tree .
But the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn .
`` Press closer , little Nightingale , '' cried the Tree , `` or the Day will come before the rose is finished . ''
So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn , and louder and louder grew her song , for she sang of the birth of passion in the soul of a man and a maid .
And a delicate flush of pink came into the leaves of the rose , like the flush in the face of the bridegroom when he kisses the lips of the bride .
But the thorn had not yet reached her heart , so the rose 's heart remained white , for only a Nightingale 's heart 's - blood can crimson the heart of a rose .
And the Tree cried to the Nightingale to press closer against the thorn .
`` Press closer , little Nightingale , '' cried the Tree , `` or the Day will come before the rose is finished . ''
So the Nightingale pressed closer against the thorn , and the thorn touched her heart , and a fierce pang of pain shot through her .
Bitter , bitter was the pain , and wilder and wilder grew her song , for she sang of the Love that is perfected by Death , of the Love that dies not in the tomb .
And the marvellous rose became crimson , like the rose of the eastern sky .
Crimson was the girdle of petals , and crimson as a ruby was the heart .
But the Nightingale 's voice grew fainter , and her little wings began to beat , and a film came over her eyes .
Fainter and fainter grew her song , and she felt something choking her in her throat .
Then she gave one last burst of music .
The white Moon heard it , and she forgot the dawn , and lingered on in the sky .
The red rose heard it , and it trembled all over with ecstasy , and opened its petals to the cold morning air .
Echo bore it to her purple cavern in the hills , and woke the sleeping shepherds from their dreams .
It floated through the reeds of the river , and they carried its message to the sea .
`` Look , look ! ''
cried the Tree , `` the rose is finished now '' ; but the Nightingale made no answer , for she was lying dead in the long grass , with the thorn in her heart .
And at noon the Student opened his window and looked out .
`` Why , what a wonderful piece of luck ! ''
he cried ; `` here is a red rose !
I have never seen any rose like it in all my life .
It is so beautiful that I am sure it has a long Latin name '' ; and he leaned down and plucked it .
Then he put on his hat , and ran up to the Professor 's house with the rose in his hand .
The daughter of the Professor was sitting in the doorway winding blue silk on a reel , and her little dog was lying at her feet .
`` You said that you would dance with me if I brought you a red rose , '' cried the Student .
`` Here is the reddest rose in all the world .
You will wear it to-night next your heart , and as we dance together it will tell you how I love you . ''
But the girl frowned .
`` I am afraid it will not go with my dress , '' she answered ; `` and , besides , the Chamberlain 's nephew has sent me some real jewels , and everybody knows that jewels cost far more than flowers . ''
`` Well , upon my word , you are very ungrateful , '' said the Student angrily ; and he threw the rose into the street , where it fell into the gutter , and a cart-wheel went over it .
`` Ungrateful ! ''
said the girl .
`` I tell you what , you are very rude ; and , after all , who are you ?
Only a Student .
Why , I do n't believe you have even got silver buckles to your shoes as the Chamberlain 's nephew has '' ; and she got up from her chair and went into the house .
`` What I a silly thing Love is , '' said the Student as he walked away .
`` It is not half as useful as Logic , for it does not prove anything , and it is always telling one of things that are not going to happen , and making one believe things that are not true .
In fact , it is quite unpractical , and , as in this age to be practical is everything , I shall go back to Philosophy and study Metaphysics . ''
So he returned to his room and pulled out a great dusty book , and began to read .
THE SELFISH GIANT Every afternoon , as they were coming from school , the children used to go and play in the Giant 's garden .
It was a large lovely garden , with soft green grass .
Here and there over the grass stood beautiful flowers like stars , and there were twelve peach-trees that in the spring-time broke out into delicate blossoms of pink and pearl , and in the autumn bore rich fruit .
The birds sat on the trees and sang so sweetly that the children used to stop their games in order to listen to them .
`` How happy we are here ! ''
they cried to each other .
One day the Giant came back .
He had been to visit his friend the Cornish ogre , and had stayed with him for seven years .
After the seven years were over he had said all that he had to say , for his conversation was limited , and he determined to return to his own castle .
When he arrived he saw the children playing in the garden .
`` What are you doing here ? ''
he cried in a very gruff voice , and the children ran away .
`` My own garden is my own garden , '' said the Giant ; `` any one can understand that , and I will allow nobody to play in it but myself . ''
So he built a high wall all round it , and put up a notice-board .
TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTED He was a very selfish Giant .
The poor children had now nowhere to play .
They tried to play on the road , but the road was very dusty and full of hard stones , and they did not like it .
They used to wander round the high wall when their lessons were over , and talk about the beautiful garden inside .
`` How happy we were there , '' they said to each other .
Then the Spring came , and all over the country there were little blossoms and little birds .
Only in the garden of the Selfish Giant it was still winter .
The birds did not care to sing in it as there were no children , and the trees forgot to blossom .
Once a beautiful flower put its head out from the grass , but when it saw the notice-board it was so sorry for the children that it slipped back into the ground again , and went off to sleep .
The only people who were pleased were the Snow and the Frost .
`` Spring has forgotten this garden , '' they cried , `` so we will live here all the year round . ''
The Snow covered up the grass with her great white cloak , and the Frost painted all the trees silver .
Then they invited the North Wind to stay with them , and he came .
He was wrapped in furs , and he roared all day about the garden , and blew the chimney-pots down .
`` This is a delightful spot , '' he said , `` we must ask the Hail on a visit . ''
So the Hail came .
Every day for three hours he rattled on the roof of the castle till he broke most of the slates , and then he ran round and round the garden as fast as he could go .
He was dressed in grey , and his breath was like ice .
`` I can not understand why the Spring is so late in coming , '' said the Selfish Giant , as he sat at the window and looked out at his cold white garden ; `` I hope there will be a change in the weather . ''
But the Spring never came , nor the Summer .
The Autumn gave golden fruit to every garden , but to the Giant 's garden she gave none .
`` He is too selfish , '' she said .
So it was always Winter there , and the North Wind , and the Hail , and the Frost , and the Snow danced about through the trees .
One morning the Giant was lying awake in bed when he heard some lovely music .
It sounded so sweet to his ears that he thought it must be the King 's musicians passing by .
It was really only a little linnet singing outside his window , but it was so long since he had heard a bird sing in his garden that it seemed to him to be the most beautiful music in the world .
Then the Hail stopped dancing over his head , and the North Wind ceased roaring , and a delicious perfume came to him through the open casement .
`` I believe the Spring has come at last , '' said the Giant ; and he jumped out of bed and looked out .
What did he see ?
He saw a most wonderful sight .
Through a little hole in the wall the children had crept in , and they were sitting in the branches of the trees .
In every tree that he could see there was a little child .
And the trees were so glad to have the children back again that they had covered themselves with blossoms , and were waving their arms gently above the children 's heads .
The birds were flying about and twittering with delight , and the flowers were looking up through the green grass and laughing .
It was a lovely scene , only in one corner it was still winter .
It was the farthest corner of the garden , and in it was standing a little boy .
He was so small that he could not reach up to the branches of the tree , and he was wandering all round it , crying bitterly .
The poor tree was still quite covered with frost and snow , and the North Wind was blowing and roaring above it .
`` Climb up !
little boy , '' said the Tree , and it bent its branches down as low as it could ; but the boy was too tiny .
And the Giant 's heart melted as he looked out .
`` How selfish I have been ! ''
he said ; `` now I know why the Spring would not come here .
I will put that poor little boy on the top of the tree , and then I will knock down the wall , and my garden shall be the children 's playground for ever and ever . ''
He was really very sorry for what he had done .
So he crept downstairs and opened the front door quite softly , and went out into the garden .
But when the children saw him they were so frightened that they all ran away , and the garden became winter again .
Only the little boy did not run , for his eyes were so full of tears that he did not see the Giant coming .
And the Giant stole up behind him and took him gently in his hand , and put him up into the tree .
And the tree broke at once into blossom , and the birds came and sang on it , and the little boy stretched out his two arms and flung them round the Giant 's neck , and kissed him .
And the other children , when they saw that the Giant was not wicked any longer , came running back , and with them came the Spring .
`` It is your garden now , little children , '' said the Giant , and he took a great axe and knocked down the wall .
And when the people were going to market at twelve o'clock they found the Giant playing with the children in the most beautiful garden they had ever seen .
All day long they played , and in the evening they came to the Giant to bid him good-bye .
`` But where is your little companion ? ''
he said : `` the boy I put into the tree . ''
The Giant loved him the best because he had kissed him .
`` We do n't know , '' answered the children ; `` he has gone away . ''
`` You must tell him to be sure and come here to-morrow , '' said the Giant .
But the children said that they did not know where he lived , and had never seen him before ; and the Giant felt very sad .
Every afternoon , when school was over , the children came and played with the Giant .
But the little boy whom the Giant loved was never seen again .
The Giant was very kind to all the children , yet he longed for his first little friend , and often spoke of him .
`` How I would like to see him ! ''
he used to say .
Years went over , and the Giant grew very old and feeble .
He could not play about any more , so he sat in a huge armchair , and watched the children at their games , and admired his garden .
`` I have many beautiful flowers , '' he said ; `` but the children are the most beautiful flowers of all . ''
One winter morning he looked out of his window as he was dressing .
He did not hate the Winter now , for he knew that it was merely the Spring asleep , and that the flowers were resting .
Suddenly he rubbed his eyes in wonder , and looked and looked .
It certainly was a marvellous sight .
In the farthest corner of the garden was a tree quite covered with lovely white blossoms .
Its branches were all golden , and silver fruit hung down from them , and underneath it stood the little boy he had loved .
Downstairs ran the Giant in great joy , and out into the garden .
He hastened across the grass , and came near to the child .
And when he came quite close his face grew red with anger , and he said , `` Who hath dared to wound thee ? ''
For on the palms of the child 's hands were the prints of two nails , and the prints of two nails were on the little feet .
`` Who hath dared to wound thee ? ''
cried the Giant ; `` tell me , that I may take my big sword and slay him . ''
`` Nay ! ''
answered the child ; `` but these are the wounds of Love . ''
`` Who art thou ? ''
said the Giant , and a strange awe fell on him , and he knelt before the little child .
And the child smiled on the Giant , and said to him , `` You let me play once in your garden , to-day you shall come with me to my garden , which is Paradise . ''
And when the children ran in that afternoon , they found the Giant lying dead under the tree , all covered with white blossoms .
THE DEVOTED FRIEND One morning the old Water-rat put his head out of his hole .
He had bright beady eyes and stiff grey whiskers and his tail was like a long bit of black india-rubber .
The little ducks were swimming about in the pond , looking just like a lot of yellow canaries , and their mother , who was pure white with real red legs , was trying to teach them how to stand on their heads in the water .
`` You will never be in the best society unless you can stand on your heads , '' she kept saying to them ; and every now and then she showed them how it was done .
But the little ducks paid no attention to her .
They were so young that they did not know what an advantage it is to be in society at all .
`` What disobedient children ! ''
cried the old Water-rat ; `` they really deserve to be drowned . ''
`` Nothing of the kind , '' answered the Duck , `` every one must make a beginning , and parents can not be too patient . ''
`` Ah !
I know nothing about the feelings of parents , '' said the Water - rat ; `` I am not a family man .
In fact , I have never been married , and I never intend to be .
Love is all very well in its way , but friendship is much higher .
Indeed , I know of nothing in the world that is either nobler or rarer than a devoted friendship . ''
`` And what , pray , is your idea of the duties of a devoted friend ? ''
asked a Green Linnet , who was sitting in a willow-tree hard by , and had overheard the conversation .
`` Yes , that is just what I want to know , '' said the Duck ; and she swam away to the end of the pond , and stood upon her head , in order to give her children a good example .
`` What a silly question ! ''
cried the Water-rat .
`` I should expect my devoted friend to be devoted to me , of course . ''
`` And what would you do in return ? ''
said the little bird , swinging upon a silver spray , and flapping his tiny wings .
`` I do n't understand you , '' answered the Water-rat .
`` Let me tell you a story on the subject , '' said the Linnet .
`` Is the story about me ? ''
asked the Water-rat .
`` If so , I will listen to it , for I am extremely fond of fiction . ''
`` It is applicable to you , '' answered the Linnet ; and he flew down , and alighting upon the bank , he told the story of The Devoted Friend .
`` Once upon a time , '' said the Linnet , `` there was an honest little fellow named Hans . ''
`` Was he very distinguished ? ''
asked the Water-rat .
`` No , '' answered the Linnet , `` I do n't think he was distinguished at all , except for his kind heart , and his funny round good-humoured face .
He lived in a tiny cottage all by himself , and every day he worked in his garden .
In all the country-side there was no garden so lovely as his .
Sweet-william grew there , and Gilly-flowers , and Shepherds ' - purses , and Fair-maids of France .
There were damask Roses , and yellow Roses , lilac Crocuses , and gold , purple Violets and white .
Columbine and Ladysmock , Marjoram and Wild Basil , the Cowslip and the Flower-de-luce , the Daffodil and the Clove-Pink bloomed or blossomed in their proper order as the months went by , one flower taking another flower 's place , so that there were always beautiful things to look at , and pleasant odours to smell .
`` Little Hans had a great many friends , but the most devoted friend of all was big Hugh the Miller .
Indeed , so devoted was the rich Miller to little Hans , that be would never go by his garden without leaning over the wall and plucking a large nosegay , or a handful of sweet herbs , or filling his pockets with plums and cherries if it was the fruit season . ''
` Real friends should have everything in common , ' the Miller used to say , and little Hans nodded and smiled , and felt very proud of having a friend with such noble ideas .
`` Sometimes , indeed , the neighbours thought it strange that the rich Miller never gave little Hans anything in return , though he had a hundred sacks of flour stored away in his mill , and six milch cows , and a large flock of woolly sheep ; but Hans never troubled his head about these things , and nothing gave him greater pleasure than to listen to all the wonderful things the Miller used to say about the unselfishness of true friendship .
`` So little Hans worked away in his garden .
During the spring , the summer , and the autumn he was very happy , but when the winter came , and he had no fruit or flowers to bring to the market , he suffered a good deal from cold and hunger , and often had to go to bed without any supper but a few dried pears or some hard nuts .
In the winter , also , he was extremely lonely , as the Miller never came to see him then . ''
` There is no good in my going to see little Hans as long as the snow lasts , ' the Miller used to say to his wife , ` for when people are in trouble they should be left alone , and not be bothered by visitors .
That at least is my idea about friendship , and I am sure I am right .
So I shall wait till the spring comes , and then I shall pay him a visit , and he will be able to give me a large basket of primroses and that will make him so happy . ' ''
` You are certainly very thoughtful about others , ' answered the Wife , as she sat in her comfortable armchair by the big pinewood fire ; ` very thoughtful indeed .
It is quite a treat to hear you talk about friendship .
I am sure the clergyman himself could not say such beautiful things as you do , though he does live in a three-storied house , and wear a gold ring on his little finger . ' ''
` But could we not ask little Hans up here ? '
said the Miller 's youngest son .
` If poor Hans is in trouble I will give him half my porridge , and show him my white rabbits . ' ''
` What a silly boy you are ' !
cried the Miller ; ' I really do n't know what is the use of sending you to school .
You seem not to learn anything .
Why , if little Hans came up here , and saw our warm fire , and our good supper , and our great cask of red wine , he might get envious , and envy is a most terrible thing , and would spoil anybody 's nature .
I certainly will not allow Hans ' nature to be spoiled .
I am his best friend , and I will always watch over him , and see that he is not led into any temptations .
Besides , if Hans came here , he might ask me to let him have some flour on credit , and that I could not do .
Flour is one thing , and friendship is another , and they should not be confused .
Why , the words are spelt differently , and mean quite different things .
Everybody can see that . ' ''
` How well you talk ' !
said the Miller 's Wife , pouring herself out a large glass of warm ale ; ` really I feel quite drowsy .
It is just like being in church . ' ''
` Lots of people act well , ' answered the Miller ; ` but very few people talk well , which shows that talking is much the more difficult thing of the two , and much the finer thing also ' ; and he looked sternly across the table at his little son , who felt so ashamed of himself that he hung his head down , and grew quite scarlet , and began to cry into his tea .
However , he was so young that you must excuse him . ''
`` Is that the end of the story ? ''
asked the Water-rat .
`` Certainly not , '' answered the Linnet , `` that is the beginning . ''
`` Then you are quite behind the age , '' said the Water-rat .
`` Every good story-teller nowadays starts with the end , and then goes on to the beginning , and concludes with the middle .
That is the new method .
I heard all about it the other day from a critic who was walking round the pond with a young man .
He spoke of the matter at great length , and I am sure he must have been right , for he had blue spectacles and a bald head , and whenever the young man made any remark , he always answered ` Pooh ! '
But pray go on with your story .
I like the Miller immensely .
I have all kinds of beautiful sentiments myself , so there is a great sympathy between us . ''
`` Well , '' said the Linnet , hopping now on one leg and now on the other , `` as soon as the winter was over , and the primroses began to open their pale yellow stars , the Miller said to his wife that he would go down and see little Hans . ''
` Why , what a good heart you have ' !
cried his Wife ; ` you are always thinking of others .
And mind you take the big basket with you for the flowers . '
`` So the Miller tied the sails of the windmill together with a strong iron chain , and went down the hill with the basket on his arm . ''
` Good morning , little Hans , ' said the Miller . ''
` Good morning , ' said Hans , leaning on his spade , and smiling from ear to ear . ''
` And how have you been all the winter ? '
said the Miller . ''
` Well , really , ' cried Hans , ` it is very good of you to ask , very good indeed .
I am afraid I had rather a hard time of it , but now the spring has come , and I am quite happy , and all my flowers are doing well . ' ''
` We often talked of you during the winter , Hans , ' said the Miller , ` and wondered how you were getting on . ' ''
` That was kind of you , ' said Hans ; ' I was half afraid you had forgotten me . ' ''
` Hans , I am surprised at you , ' said the Miller ; ` friendship never forgets .
That is the wonderful thing about it , but I am afraid you do n't understand the poetry of life .
How lovely your primroses are looking , by-the-bye '' ! ''
` They are certainly very lovely , ' said Hans , ` and it is a most lucky thing for me that I have so many .
I am going to bring them into the market and sell them to the Burgomaster 's daughter , and buy back my wheelbarrow with the money . ' ''
` Buy back your wheelbarrow ?
You do n't mean to say you have sold it ?
What a very stupid thing to do ' ! ''
` Well , the fact is , ' said Hans , ` that I was obliged to .
You see the winter was a very bad time for me , and I really had no money at all to buy bread with .
So I first sold the silver buttons off my Sunday coat , and then I sold my silver chain , and then I sold my big pipe , and at last I sold my wheelbarrow .
But I am going to buy them all back again now . ' ''
` Hans , ' said the Miller , ' I will give you my wheelbarrow .
It is not in very good repair ; indeed , one side is gone , and there is something wrong with the wheel-spokes ; but in spite of that I will give it to you .
I know it is very generous of me , and a great many people would think me extremely foolish for parting with it , but I am not like the rest of the world .
I think that generosity is the essence of friendship , and , besides , I have got a new wheelbarrow for myself .
Yes , you may set your mind at ease , I will give you my wheelbarrow . ' ''
` Well , really , that is generous of you , ' said little Hans , and his funny round face glowed all over with pleasure . '
I can easily put it in repair , as I have a plank of wood in the house . ' '' '
A plank of wood ' !
said the Miller ; ` why , that is just what I want for the roof of my barn .
There is a very large hole in it , and the corn will all get damp if I do n't stop it up .
How lucky you mentioned it !
It is quite remarkable how one good action always breeds another .
I have given you my wheelbarrow , and now you are going to give me your plank .
Of course , the wheelbarrow is worth far more than the plank , but true , friendship never notices things like that .
Pray get it at once , and I will set to work at my barn this very day . ' ''
` Certainly , ' cried little Hans , and he ran into the shed and dragged the plank out . ''
` It is not a very big plank , ' said the Miller , looking at it , ` and I am afraid that after I have mended my barn-roof there wo n't be any left for you to mend the wheelbarrow with ; but , of course , that is not my fault .
And now , as I have given you my wheelbarrow , I am sure you would like to give me some flowers in return .
Here is the basket , and mind you fill it quite full . ' ''
` Quite full ? '
said little Hans , rather sorrowfully , for it was really a very big basket , and he knew that if he filled it he would have no flowers left for the market and he was very anxious to get his silver buttons back . ''
` Well , really , ' answered the Miller , ` as I have given you my wheelbarrow , I do n't think that it is much to ask you for a few flowers .
I may be wrong , but I should have thought that friendship , true friendship , was quite free from selfishness of any kind . ' ''
` My dear friend , my best friend , ' cried little Hans , ` you are welcome to all the flowers in my garden .
I would much sooner have your good opinion than my silver buttons , any day ' ; and he ran and plucked all his pretty primroses , and filled the Miller 's basket . ''
` Good-bye , little Hans , ' said the Miller , as he went up the hill with the plank on his shoulder , and the big basket in his hand . ''
` Good-bye , ' said little Hans , and he began to dig away quite merrily , he was so pleased about the wheelbarrow .
`` The next day he was nailing up some honeysuckle against the porch , when he heard the Miller 's voice calling to him from the road .
So he jumped off the ladder , and ran down the garden , and looked over the wall .
`` There was the Miller with a large sack of flour on his back . ''
` Dear little Hans , ' said the Miller , ` would you mind carrying this sack of flour for me to market ? ' ''
` Oh , I am so sorry , ' said Hans , ` but I am really very busy to-day .
I have got all my creepers to nail up , and all my flowers to water , and all my grass to roll . ' ''
` Well , really , ' said the Miller , ' I think that , considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow , it is rather unfriendly of you to refuse . ' ''
` Oh , do n't say that , ' cried little Hans , ' I would n't be unfriendly for the whole world ' ; and he ran in for his cap , and trudged off with the big sack on his shoulders .
`` It was a very hot day , and the road was terribly dusty , and before Hans had reached the sixth milestone he was so tired that he had to sit down and rest .
However , he went on bravely , and as last he reached the market .
After he had waited there some time , he sold the sack of flour for a very good price , and then he returned home at once , for he was afraid that if he stopped too late he might meet some robbers on the way . ''
` It has certainly been a hard day , ' said little Hans to himself as he was going to bed , ` but I am glad I did not refuse the Miller , for he is my best friend , and , besides , he is going to give me his wheelbarrow . '
`` Early the next morning the Miller came down to get the money for his sack of flour , but little Hans was so tired that he was still in bed . ''
` Upon my word , ' said the Miller , ` you are very lazy .
Really , considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow , I think you might work harder .
Idleness is a great sin , and I certainly do n't like any of my friends to be idle or sluggish .
You must not mind my speaking quite plainly to you .
Of course I should not dream of doing so if I were not your friend .
But what is the good of friendship if one can not say exactly what one means ?
Anybody can say charming things and try to please and to flatter , but a true friend always says unpleasant things , and does not mind giving pain .
Indeed , if he is a really true friend he prefers it , for he knows that then he is doing good . ' '' '
I am very sorry , ' said little Hans , rubbing his eyes and pulling off his night-cap , ` but I was so tired that I thought I would lie in bed for a little time , and listen to the birds singing .
Do you know that I always work better after hearing the birds sing ? ' ''
` Well , I am glad of that , ' said the Miller , clapping little Hans on the back , ` for I want you to come up to the mill as soon as you are dressed , and mend my barn-roof for me . '
`` Poor little Hans was very anxious to go and work in his garden , for his flowers had not been watered for two days , but he did not like to refuse the Miller , as he was such a good friend to him . ''
` Do you think it would be unfriendly of me if I said I was busy ? '
he inquired in a shy and timid voice . ''
` Well , really , ' answered the Miller , ' I do not think it is much to ask of you , considering that I am going to give you my wheelbarrow ; but of course if you refuse I will go and do it myself . ' ''
` Oh !
on no account , ' cried little Hans and he jumped out of bed , and dressed himself , and went up to the barn .
`` He worked there all day long , till sunset , and at sunset the Miller came to see how he was getting on . ''
` Have you mended the hole in the roof yet , little Hans ? '
cried the Miller in a cheery voice . ''
` It is quite mended , ' answered little Hans , coming down the ladder . ''
` Ah ' !
said the Miller , ` there is no work so delightful as the work one does for others . ' ''
` It is certainly a great privilege to hear you talk , ' answered little Hans , sitting down , and wiping his forehead , ' a very great privilege .
But I am afraid I shall never have such beautiful ideas as you have . ' ''
` Oh !
they will come to you , ' said the Miller , ` but you must take more pains .
At present you have only the practice of friendship ; some day you will have the theory also . ' ''
` Do you really think I shall ? '
asked little Hans . '' '
I have no doubt of it , ' answered the Miller , ` but now that you have mended the roof , you had better go home and rest , for I want you to drive my sheep to the mountain to-morrow . '
`` Poor little Hans was afraid to say anything to this , and early the next morning the Miller brought his sheep round to the cottage , and Hans started off with them to the mountain .
It took him the whole day to get there and back ; and when he returned he was so tired that he went off to sleep in his chair , and did not wake up till it was broad daylight . ''
` What a delightful time I shall have in my garden , ' he said , and he went to work at once .
`` But somehow he was never able to look after his flowers at all , for his friend the Miller was always coming round and sending him off on long errands , or getting him to help at the mill .
Little Hans was very much distressed at times , as he was afraid his flowers would think he had forgotten them , but he consoled himself by the reflection that the Miller was his best friend .
` Besides , ' he used to say , ` he is going to give me his wheelbarrow , and that is an act of pure generosity . '
`` So little Hans worked away for the Miller , and the Miller said all kinds of beautiful things about friendship , which Hans took down in a note-book , and used to read over at night , for he was a very good scholar .
`` Now it happened that one evening little Hans was sitting by his fireside when a loud rap came at the door .
It was a very wild night , and the wind was blowing and roaring round the house so terribly that at first he thought it was merely the storm .
But a second rap came , and then a third , louder than any of the others . ''
` It is some poor traveller , ' said little Hans to himself , and he ran to the door .
`` There stood the Miller with a lantern in one hand and a big stick in the other . ''
` Dear little Hans , ' cried the Miller , ' I am in great trouble .
My little boy has fallen off a ladder and hurt himself , and I am going for the Doctor .
But he lives so far away , and it is such a bad night , that it has just occurred to me that it would be much better if you went instead of me .
You know I am going to give you my wheelbarrow , and so , it is only fair that you should do something for me in return . ' ''
` Certainly , ' cried little Hans , ' I take it quite as a compliment your coming to me , and I will start off at once .
But you must lend me your lantern , as the night is so dark that I am afraid I might fall into the ditch . ' '' '
I am very sorry , ' answered the Miller , ` but it is my new lantern , and it would be a great loss to me if anything happened to it . ' ''
` Well , never mind , I will do without it , ' cried little Hans , and he took down his great fur coat , and his warm scarlet cap , and tied a muffler round his throat , and started off .
`` What a dreadful storm it was !
The night was so black that little Hans could hardly see , and the wind was so strong that he could scarcely stand .
However , he was very courageous , and after he had been walking about three hours , he arrived at the Doctor 's house , and knocked at the door . ''
` Who is there ? '
cried the Doctor , putting his head out of his bedroom window . ''
` Little Hans , Doctor . ' ''
` What do you want , little Hans ? ' ''
` The Miller 's son has fallen from a ladder , and has hurt himself , and the Miller wants you to come at once . ' ''
` All right ! '
said the Doctor ; and he ordered his horse , and his big boots , and his lantern , and came downstairs , and rode off in the direction of the Miller 's house , little Hans trudging behind him .
`` But the storm grew worse and worse , and the rain fell in torrents , and little Hans could not see where he was going , or keep up with the horse .
At last he lost his way , and wandered off on the moor , which was a very dangerous place , as it was full of deep holes , and there poor little Hans was drowned .
His body was found the next day by some goatherds , floating in a great pool of water , and was brought back by them to the cottage .
`` Everybody went to little Hans ' funeral , as he was so popular , and the Miller was the chief mourner . ''
` As I was his best friend , ' said the Miller , ` it is only fair that I should have the best place ' ; so he walked at the head of the procession in a long black cloak , and every now and then he wiped his eyes with a big pocket-handkerchief . ''
` Little Hans is certainly a great loss to every one , ' said the Blacksmith , when the funeral was over , and they were all seated comfortably in the inn , drinking spiced wine and eating sweet cakes . '' '
A great loss to me at any rate , ' answered the Miller ; ` why , I had as good as given him my wheelbarrow , and now I really do n't know what to do with it .
It is very much in my way at home , and it is in such bad repair that I could not get anything for it if I sold it .
I will certainly take care not to give away anything again .
One always suffers for being generous . ' ''
`` Well ? ''
said the Water-rat , after a long pause .
`` Well , that is the end , '' said the Linnet .
`` But what became of the Miller ? ''
asked the Water-rat .
`` Oh !
I really do n't know , '' replied the Linnet ; `` and I am sure that I do n't care . ''
`` It is quite evident then that you have no sympathy in your nature , '' said the Water-rat .
`` I am afraid you do n't quite see the moral of the story , '' remarked the Linnet .
`` The what ? ''
screamed the Water-rat .
`` The moral . ''
`` Do you mean to say that the story has a moral ? ''
`` Certainly , '' said the Linnet .
`` Well , really , '' said the Water-rat , in a very angry manner , `` I think you should have told me that before you began .
If you had done so , I certainly would not have listened to you ; in fact , I should have said ` Pooh , ' like the critic .
However , I can say it now '' ; so he shouted out `` Pooh '' at the top of his voice , gave a whisk with his tail , and went back into his hole .
`` And how do you like the Water-rat ? ''
asked the Duck , who came paddling up some minutes afterwards .
`` He has a great many good points , but for my own part I have a mother 's feelings , and I can never look at a confirmed bachelor without the tears coming into my eyes . ''
`` I am rather afraid that I have annoyed him , '' answered the Linnet .
`` The fact is , that I told him a story with a moral . ''
`` Ah !
that is always a very dangerous thing to do , '' said the Duck .
And I quite agree with her .
THE REMARKABLE ROCKET The King 's son was going to be married , so there were general rejoicings .
He had waited a whole year for his bride , and at last she had arrived .
She was a Russian Princess , and had driven all the way from Finland in a sledge drawn by six reindeer .
The sledge was shaped like a great golden swan , and between the swan 's wings lay the little Princess herself .
Her long ermine-cloak reached right down to her feet , on her head was a tiny cap of silver tissue , and she was as pale as the Snow Palace in which she had always lived .
So pale was she that as she drove through the streets all the people wondered .
`` She is like a white rose ! ''
they cried , and they threw down flowers on her from the balconies .
At the gate of the Castle the Prince was waiting to receive her .
He had dreamy violet eyes , and his hair was like fine gold .
When he saw her he sank upon one knee , and kissed her hand .
`` Your picture was beautiful , '' he murmured , `` but you are more beautiful than your picture '' ; and the little Princess blushed .
`` She was like a white rose before , '' said a young Page to his neighbour , `` but she is like a red rose now '' ; and the whole Court was delighted .
For the next three days everybody went about saying , `` White rose , Red rose , Red rose , White rose '' ; and the King gave orders that the Page 's salary was to be doubled .
As he received no salary at all this was not of much use to him , but it was considered a great honour , and was duly published in the Court Gazette .
When the three days were over the marriage was celebrated .
It was a magnificent ceremony , and the bride and bridegroom walked hand in hand under a canopy of purple velvet embroidered with little pearls .
Then there was a State Banquet , which lasted for five hours .
The Prince and Princess sat at the top of the Great Hall and drank out of a cup of clear crystal .
Only true lovers could drink out of this cup , for if false lips touched it , it grew grey and dull and cloudy .
`` It 's quite clear that they love each other , '' said the little Page , `` as clear as crystal ! ''
and the King doubled his salary a second time .
`` What an honour ! ''
cried all the courtiers .
After the banquet there was to be a Ball .
The bride and bridegroom were to dance the Rose-dance together , and the King had promised to play the flute .
He played very badly , but no one had ever dared to tell him so , because he was the King .
Indeed , he knew only two airs , and was never quite certain which one he was playing ; but it made no matter , for , whatever he did , everybody cried out , `` Charming !
charming ! ''
The last item on the programme was a grand display of fireworks , to be let off exactly at midnight .
The little Princess had never seen a firework in her life , so the King had given orders that the Royal Pyrotechnist should be in attendance on the day of her marriage .
`` What are fireworks like ? ''
she had asked the Prince , one morning , as she was walking on the terrace .
`` They are like the Aurora Borealis , '' said the King , who always answered questions that were addressed to other people , `` only much more natural .
I prefer them to stars myself , as you always know when they are going to appear , and they are as delightful as my own flute-playing .
You must certainly see them . ''
So at the end of the King 's garden a great stand had been set up , and as soon as the Royal Pyrotechnist had put everything in its proper place , the fireworks began to talk to each other .
`` The world is certainly very beautiful , '' cried a little Squib .
`` Just look at those yellow tulips .
Why !
if they were real crackers they could not be lovelier .
I am very glad I have travelled .
Travel improves the mind wonderfully , and does away with all one 's prejudices . ''
`` The King 's garden is not the world , you foolish squib , '' said a big Roman Candle ; `` the world is an enormous place , and it would take you three days to see it thoroughly . ''
`` Any place you love is the world to you , '' exclaimed a pensive Catherine Wheel , who had been attached to an old deal box in early life , and prided herself on her broken heart ; `` but love is not fashionable any more , the poets have killed it .
They wrote so much about it that nobody believed them , and I am not surprised .
True love suffers , and is silent .
I remember myself once -- But it is no matter now .
Romance is a thing of the past . ''
`` Nonsense ! ''
said the Roman Candle , `` Romance never dies .
It is like the moon , and lives for ever .
The bride and bridegroom , for instance , love each other very dearly .
I heard all about them this morning from a brown-paper cartridge , who happened to be staying in the same drawer as myself , and knew the latest Court news . ''
But the Catherine Wheel shook her head .
`` Romance is dead , Romance is dead , Romance is dead , '' she murmured .
She was one of those people who think that , if you say the same thing over and over a great many times , it becomes true in the end .
Suddenly , a sharp , dry cough was heard , and they all looked round .
It came from a tall , supercilious-looking Rocket , who was tied to the end of a long stick .
He always coughed before he made any observation , so as to attract attention .
`` Ahem !
ahem ! ''
he said , and everybody listened except the poor Catherine Wheel , who was still shaking her head , and murmuring , `` Romance is dead . ''
`` Order !
order ! ''
cried out a Cracker .
He was something of a politician , and had always taken a prominent part in the local elections , so he knew the proper Parliamentary expressions to use .
`` Quite dead , '' whispered the Catherine Wheel , and she went off to sleep .
As soon as there was perfect silence , the Rocket coughed a third time and began .
He spoke with a very slow , distinct voice , as if he was dictating his memoirs , and always looked over the shoulder of the person to whom he was talking .
In fact , he had a most distinguished manner .
`` How fortunate it is for the King 's son , '' he remarked , `` that he is to be married on the very day on which I am to be let off .
Really , if it had been arranged beforehand , it could not have turned out better for him ; but , Princes are always lucky . ''
`` Dear me ! ''
said the little Squib , `` I thought it was quite the other way , and that we were to be let off in the Prince 's honour . ''
`` It may be so with you , '' he answered ; `` indeed , I have no doubt that it is , but with me it is different .
I am a very remarkable Rocket , and come of remarkable parents .
My mother was the most celebrated Catherine Wheel of her day , and was renowned for her graceful dancing .
When she made her great public appearance she spun round nineteen times before she went out , and each time that she did so she threw into the air seven pink stars .
She was three feet and a half in diameter , and made of the very best gunpowder .
My father was a Rocket like myself , and of French extraction .
He flew so high that the people were afraid that he would never come down again .
He did , though , for he was of a kindly disposition , and he made a most brilliant descent in a shower of golden rain .
The newspapers wrote about his performance in very flattering terms .
Indeed , the Court Gazette called him a triumph of Pylotechnic art . ''
`` Pyrotechnic , Pyrotechnic , you mean , '' said a Bengal Light ; `` I know it is Pyrotechnic , for I saw it written on my own canister . ''
`` Well , I said Pylotechnic , '' answered the Rocket , in a severe tone of voice , and the Bengal Light felt so crushed that he began at once to bully the little squibs , in order to show that he was still a person of some importance .
`` I was saying , '' continued the Rocket , `` I was saying -- What was I saying ? ''
`` You were talking about yourself , '' replied the Roman Candle .
`` Of course ; I knew I was discussing some interesting subject when I was so rudely interrupted .
I hate rudeness and bad manners of every kind , for I am extremely sensitive .
No one in the whole world is so sensitive as I am , I am quite sure of that . ''
`` What is a sensitive person ? ''
said the Cracker to the Roman Candle .
`` A person who , because he has corns himself , always treads on other people 's toes , '' answered the Roman Candle in a low whisper ; and the Cracker nearly exploded with laughter .
`` Pray , what are you laughing at ? ''
inquired the Rocket ; `` I am not laughing . ''
`` I am laughing because I am happy , '' replied the Cracker .
`` That is a very selfish reason , '' said the Rocket angrily .
`` What right have you to be happy ?
You should be thinking about others .
In fact , you should be thinking about me .
I am always thinking about myself , and I expect everybody else to do the same .
That is what is called sympathy .
It is a beautiful virtue , and I possess it in a high degree .
Suppose , for instance , anything happened to me to-night , what a misfortune that would be for every one !
The Prince and Princess would never be happy again , their whole married life would be spoiled ; and as for the King , I know he would not get over it .
Really , when I begin to reflect on the importance of my position , I am almost moved to tears . ''
`` If you want to give pleasure to others , '' cried the Roman Candle , `` you had better keep yourself dry . ''
`` Certainly , '' exclaimed the Bengal Light , who was now in better spirits ; `` that is only common sense . ''
`` Common sense , indeed ! ''
said the Rocket indignantly ; `` you forget that I am very uncommon , and very remarkable .
Why , anybody can have common sense , provided that they have no imagination .
But I have imagination , for I never think of things as they really are ; I always think of them as being quite different .
As for keeping myself dry , there is evidently no one here who can at all appreciate an emotional nature .
Fortunately for myself , I do n't care .
The only thing that sustains one through life is the consciousness of the immense inferiority of everybody else , and this is a feeling that I have always cultivated .
But none of you have any hearts .
Here you are laughing and making merry just as if the Prince and Princess had not just been married . ''
`` Well , really , '' exclaimed a small Fire-balloon , `` why not ?
It is a most joyful occasion , and when I soar up into the air I intend to tell the stars all about it .
You will see them twinkle when I talk to them about the pretty bride . ''
`` Ah !
what a trivial view of life ! ''
said the Rocket ; `` but it is only what I expected .
There is nothing in you ; you are hollow and empty .
Why , perhaps the Prince and Princess may go to live in a country where there is a deep river , and perhaps they may have one only son , a little fair-haired boy with violet eyes like the Prince himself ; and perhaps some day he may go out to walk with his nurse ; and perhaps the nurse may go to sleep under a great elder-tree ; and perhaps the little boy may fall into the deep river and be drowned .
What a terrible misfortune !
Poor people , to lose their only son !
It is really too dreadful !
I shall never get over it . ''
`` But they have not lost their only son , '' said the Roman Candle ; `` no misfortune has happened to them at all . ''
`` I never said that they had , '' replied the Rocket ; `` I said that they might .
If they had lost their only son there would be no use in saying anything more about the matter .
I hate people who cry over spilt milk .
But when I think that they might lose their only son , I certainly am very much affected . ''
`` You certainly are ! ''
cried the Bengal Light .
`` In fact , you are the most affected person I ever met . ''
`` You are the rudest person I ever met , '' said the Rocket , `` and you can not understand my friendship for the Prince . ''
`` Why , you do n't even know him , '' growled the Roman Candle .
`` I never said I knew him , '' answered the Rocket .
`` I dare say that if I knew him I should not be his friend at all .
It is a very dangerous thing to know one 's friends . ''
`` You had really better keep yourself dry , '' said the Fire-balloon .
`` That is the important thing . ''
`` Very important for you , I have no doubt , '' answered the Rocket , `` but I shall weep if I choose '' ; and he actually burst into real tears , which flowed down his stick like rain-drops , and nearly drowned two little beetles , who were just thinking of setting up house together , and were looking for a nice dry spot to live in .
`` He must have a truly romantic nature , '' said the Catherine Wheel , `` for he weeps when there is nothing at all to weep about '' ; and she heaved a deep sigh , and thought about the deal box .
But the Roman Candle and the Bengal Light were quite indignant , and kept saying , `` Humbug !
humbug ! ''
at the top of their voices .
They were extremely practical , and whenever they objected to anything they called it humbug .
Then the moon rose like a wonderful silver shield ; and the stars began to shine , and a sound of music came from the palace .
The Prince and Princess were leading the dance .
They danced so beautifully that the tall white lilies peeped in at the window and watched them , and the great red poppies nodded their heads and beat time .
Then ten o'clock struck , and then eleven , and then twelve , and at the last stroke of midnight every one came out on the terrace , and the King sent for the Royal Pyrotechnist .
`` Let the fireworks begin , '' said the King ; and the Royal Pyrotechnist made a low bow , and marched down to the end of the garden .
He had six attendants with him , each of whom carried a lighted torch at the end of a long pole .
It was certainly a magnificent display .
Whizz !
Whizz !
went the Catherine Wheel , as she spun round and round .
Boom !
Boom !
went the Roman Candle .
Then the Squibs danced all over the place , and the Bengal Lights made everything look scarlet .
`` Good-bye , '' cried the Fire-balloon , as he soared away , dropping tiny blue sparks .
Bang !
Bang !
answered the Crackers , who were enjoying themselves immensely .
Every one was a great success except the Remarkable Rocket .
He was so damp with crying that he could not go off at all .
The best thing in him was the gunpowder , and that was so wet with tears that it was of no use .
All his poor relations , to whom he would never speak , except with a sneer , shot up into the sky like wonderful golden flowers with blossoms of fire .
Huzza !
Huzza !
cried the Court ; and the little Princess laughed with pleasure .
`` I suppose they are reserving me for some grand occasion , '' said the Rocket ; `` no doubt that is what it means , '' and he looked more supercilious than ever .
The next day the workmen came to put everything tidy .
`` This is evidently a deputation , '' said the Rocket ; `` I will receive them with becoming dignity '' so he put his nose in the air , and began to frown severely as if he were thinking about some very important subject .
But they took no notice of him at all till they were just going away .
Then one of them caught sight of him .
`` Hallo ! ''
he cried , `` what a bad rocket ! ''
and he threw him over the wall into the ditch .
`` BAD Rocket ?
BAD Rocket ? ''
he said , as he whirled through the air ; `` impossible !
GRAND Rocket , that is what the man said .
BAD and GRAND sound very much the same , indeed they often are the same '' ; and he fell into the mud .
`` It is not comfortable here , '' he remarked , `` but no doubt it is some fashionable watering-place , and they have sent me away to recruit my health .
My nerves are certainly very much shattered , and I require rest . ''
Then a little Frog , with bright jewelled eyes , and a green mottled coat , swam up to him .
`` A new arrival , I see ! ''
said the Frog .
`` Well , after all there is nothing like mud .
Give me rainy weather and a ditch , and I am quite happy .
Do you think it will be a wet afternoon ?
I am sure I hope so , but the sky is quite blue and cloudless .
What a pity ! ''
`` Ahem !
ahem ! ''
said the Rocket , and he began to cough .
`` What a delightful voice you have ! ''
cried the Frog .
`` Really it is quite like a croak , and croaking is of course the most musical sound in the world .
You will hear our glee-club this evening .
We sit in the old duck pond close by the farmer 's house , and as soon as the moon rises we begin .
It is so entrancing that everybody lies awake to listen to us .
In fact , it was only yesterday that I heard the farmer 's wife say to her mother that she could not get a wink of sleep at night on account of us .
It is most gratifying to find oneself so popular . ''
`` Ahem !
ahem ! ''
said the Rocket angrily .
He was very much annoyed that he could not get a word in .
`` A delightful voice , certainly , '' continued the Frog ; `` I hope you will come over to the duck-pond .
I am off to look for my daughters .
I have six beautiful daughters , and I am so afraid the Pike may meet them .
He is a perfect monster , and would have no hesitation in breakfasting off them .
Well , good-bye : I have enjoyed our conversation very much , I assure you . ''
`` Conversation , indeed ! ''
said the Rocket .
`` You have talked the whole time yourself .
That is not conversation . ''
`` Somebody must listen , '' answered the Frog , `` and I like to do all the talking myself .
It saves time , and prevents arguments . ''
`` But I like arguments , '' said the Rocket .
`` I hope not , '' said the Frog complacently .
`` Arguments are extremely vulgar , for everybody in good society holds exactly the same opinions .
Good-bye a second time ; I see my daughters in the distance and the little Frog swam away .
`` You are a very irritating person , '' said the Rocket , `` and very ill - bred .
I hate people who talk about themselves , as you do , when one wants to talk about oneself , as I do .
It is what I call selfishness , and selfishness is a most detestable thing , especially to any one of my temperament , for I am well known for my sympathetic nature .
In fact , you should take example by me ; you could not possibly have a better model .
Now that you have the chance you had better avail yourself of it , for I am going back to Court almost immediately .
I am a great favourite at Court ; in fact , the Prince and Princess were married yesterday in my honour .
Of course you know nothing of these matters , for you are a provincial . ''
`` There is no good talking to him , '' said a Dragon-fly , who was sitting on the top of a large brown bulrush ; `` no good at all , for he has gone away . ''
`` Well , that is his loss , not mine , '' answered the Rocket .
`` I am not going to stop talking to him merely because he pays no attention .
I like hearing myself talk .
It is one of my greatest pleasures .
I often have long conversations all by myself , and I am so clever that sometimes I do n't understand a single word of what I am saying . ''
`` Then you should certainly lecture on Philosophy , '' said the Dragon - fly ; and he spread a pair of lovely gauze wings and soared away into the sky .
`` How very silly of him not to stay here ! ''
said the Rocket .
`` I am sure that he has not often got such a chance of improving his mind .
However , I do n't care a bit .
Genius like mine is sure to be appreciated some day '' ; and he sank down a little deeper into the mud .
After some time a large White Duck swam up to him .
She had yellow legs , and webbed feet , and was considered a great beauty on account of her waddle .
`` Quack , quack , quack , '' she said .
`` What a curious shape you are !
May I ask were you born like that , or is it the result of an accident ? ''
`` It is quite evident that you have always lived in the country , '' answered the Rocket , `` otherwise you would know who I am .
However , I excuse your ignorance .
It would be unfair to expect other people to be as remarkable as oneself .
You will no doubt be surprised to hear that I can fly up into the sky , and come down in a shower of golden rain . ''
`` I do n't think much of that , '' said the Duck , `` as I can not see what use it is to any one .
Now , if you could plough the fields like the ox , or draw a cart like the horse , or look after the sheep like the collie-dog , that would be something . ''
`` My good creature , '' cried the Rocket in a very haughty tone of voice , `` I see that you belong to the lower orders .
A person of my position is never useful .
We have certain accomplishments , and that is more than sufficient .
I have no sympathy myself with industry of any kind , least of all with such industries as you seem to recommend .
Indeed , I have always been of opinion that hard work is simply the refuge of people who have nothing whatever to do . ''
`` Well , well , '' said the Duck , who was of a very peaceable disposition , and never quarrelled with any one , `` everybody has different tastes .
I hope , at any rate , that you are going to take up your residence here . ''
`` Oh !
dear no , '' cried the Rocket .
`` I am merely a visitor , a distinguished visitor .
The fact is that I find this place rather tedious .
There is neither society here , nor solitude .
In fact , it is essentially suburban .
I shall probably go back to Court , for I know that I am destined to make a sensation in the world . ''
`` I had thoughts of entering public life once myself , '' remarked the Duck ; `` there are so many things that need reforming .
Indeed , I took the chair at a meeting some time ago , and we passed resolutions condemning everything that we did not like .
However , they did not seem to have much effect .
Now I go in for domesticity , and look after my family . ''
`` I am made for public life , '' said the Rocket , `` and so are all my relations , even the humblest of them .
Whenever we appear we excite great attention .
I have not actually appeared myself , but when I do so it will be a magnificent sight .
As for domesticity , it ages one rapidly , and distracts one 's mind from higher things . ''
`` Ah !
the higher things of life , how fine they are ! ''
said the Duck ; `` and that reminds me how hungry I feel '' : and she swam away down the stream , saying , `` Quack , quack , quack . ''
`` Come back !
come back ! ''
screamed the Rocket , `` I have a great deal to say to you '' ; but the Duck paid no attention to him .
`` I am glad that she has gone , '' he said to himself , `` she has a decidedly middle-class mind '' ; and he sank a little deeper still into the mud , and began to think about the loneliness of genius , when suddenly two little boys in white smocks came running down the bank , with a kettle and some faggots .
`` This must be the deputation , '' said the Rocket , and he tried to look very dignified .
`` Hallo ! ''
cried one of the boys , `` look at this old stick !
I wonder how it came here '' ; and he picked the rocket out of the ditch .
`` OLD Stick ! ''
said the Rocket , `` impossible !
GOLD Stick , that is what he said .
Gold Stick is very complimentary .
In fact , he mistakes me for one of the Court dignitaries ! ''
`` Let us put it into the fire ! ''
said the other boy , `` it will help to boil the kettle . ''
So they piled the faggots together , and put the Rocket on top , and lit the fire .
`` This is magnificent , '' cried the Rocket , `` they are going to let me off in broad day-light , so that every one can see me . ''
`` We will go to sleep now , '' they said , `` and when we wake up the kettle will be boiled '' ; and they lay down on the grass , and shut their eyes .
The Rocket was very damp , so he took a long time to burn .
At last , however , the fire caught him .
`` Now I am going off ! ''
he cried , and he made himself very stiff and straight .
`` I know I shall go much higher than the stars , much higher than the moon , much higher than the sun .
In fact , I shall go so high that -- '' Fizz !
Fizz !
Fizz !
and he went straight up into the air .
`` Delightful ! ''
he cried , `` I shall go on like this for ever .
What a success I am ! ''
But nobody saw him .
Then he began to feel a curious tingling sensation all over him .
`` Now I am going to explode , '' he cried .
`` I shall set the whole world on fire , and make such a noise that nobody will talk about anything else for a whole year . ''
And he certainly did explode .
Bang !
Bang !
Bang !
went the gunpowder .
There was no doubt about it .
But nobody heard him , not even the two little boys , for they were sound asleep .
Then all that was left of him was the stick , and this fell down on the back of a Goose who was taking a walk by the side of the ditch .
`` Good heavens ! ''
cried the Goose .
`` It is going to rain sticks '' ; and she rushed into the water .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Robert_Louis_Stevenson___Kidnapped.txt.out
CHAPTER I I SET OFF UPON MY JOURNEY TO THE HOUSE OF SHAWS I will begin the story of my adventures with a certain morning early in the month of June , the year of grace 1751 , when I took the key for the last time out of the door of my father 's house .
The sun began to shine upon the summit of the hills as I went down the road ; and by the time I had come as far as the manse , the blackbirds were whistling in the garden lilacs , and the mist that hung around the valley in the time of the dawn was beginning to arise and die away .
Mr. Campbell , the minister of Essendean , was waiting for me by the garden gate , good man !
He asked me if I had breakfasted ; and hearing that I lacked for nothing , he took my hand in both of his and clapped it kindly under his arm .
`` Well , Davie , lad , '' said he , `` I will go with you as far as the ford , to set you on the way . ''
And we began to walk forward in silence .
`` Are ye sorry to leave Essendean ? ''
said he , after awhile .
`` Why , sir , '' said I , `` if I knew where I was going , or what was likely to become of me , I would tell you candidly .
Essendean is a good place indeed , and I have been very happy there ; but then I have never been anywhere else .
My father and mother , since they are both dead , I shall be no nearer to in Essendean than in the Kingdom of Hungary , and , to speak truth , if I thought I had a chance to better myself where I was going I would go with a good will . ''
`` Ay ? ''
said Mr. Campbell .
`` Very well , Davie .
Then it behoves me to tell your fortune ; or so far as I may .
When your mother was gone , and your father -LRB- the worthy , Christian man -RRB- began to sicken for his end , he gave me in charge a certain letter , which he said was your inheritance .
` So soon , ' says he , ` as I am gone , and the house is redd up and the gear disposed of ' -LRB- all which , Davie , hath been done -RRB- , ` give my boy this letter into his hand , and start him off to the house of Shaws , not far from Cramond .
That is the place I came from , ' he said , ` and it 's where it befits that my boy should return .
He is a steady lad , ' your father said , ` and a canny goer ; and I doubt not he will come safe , and be well lived where he goes . ' ''
`` The house of Shaws ! ''
I cried .
`` What had my poor father to do with the house of Shaws ? ''
`` Nay , '' said Mr. Campbell , `` who can tell that for a surety ?
But the name of that family , Davie , boy , is the name you bear -- Balfours of Shaws : an ancient , honest , reputable house , peradventure in these latter days decayed .
Your father , too , was a man of learning as befitted his position ; no man more plausibly conducted school ; nor had he the manner or the speech of a common dominie ; but -LRB- as ye will yourself remember -RRB- I took aye a pleasure to have him to the manse to meet the gentry ; and those of my own house , Campbell of Kilrennet , Campbell of Dunswire , Campbell of Minch , and others , all well-kenned gentlemen , had pleasure in his society .
Lastly , to put all the elements of this affair before you , here is the testamentary letter itself , superscrived by the own hand of our departed brother . ''
He gave me the letter , which was addressed in these words : `` To the hands of Ebenezer Balfour , Esquire , of Shaws , in his house of Shaws , these will be delivered by my son , David Balfour . ''
My heart was beating hard at this great prospect now suddenly opening before a lad of seventeen years of age , the son of a poor country dominie in the Forest of Ettrick .
`` Mr. Campbell , '' I stammered , `` and if you were in my shoes , would you go ? ''
`` Of a surety , '' said the minister , `` that would I , and without pause .
A pretty lad like you should get to Cramond -LRB- which is near in by Edinburgh -RRB- in two days of walk .
If the worst came to the worst , and your high relations -LRB- as I can not but suppose them to be somewhat of your blood -RRB- should put you to the door , ye can but walk the two days back again and risp at the manse door .
But I would rather hope that ye shall be well received , as your poor father forecast for you , and for anything that I ken come to be a great man in time .
And here , Davie , laddie , '' he resumed , `` it lies near upon my conscience to improve this parting , and set you on the right guard against the dangers of the world . ''
Here he cast about for a comfortable seat , lighted on a big boulder under a birch by the trackside , sate down upon it with a very long , serious upper lip , and the sun now shining in upon us between two peaks , put his pocket-handkerchief over his cocked hat to shelter him .
There , then , with uplifted forefinger , he first put me on my guard against a considerable number of heresies , to which I had no temptation , and urged upon me to be instant in my prayers and reading of the Bible .
That done , he drew a picture of the great house that I was bound to , and how I should conduct myself with its inhabitants .
`` Be soople , Davie , in things immaterial , '' said he .
`` Bear ye this in mind , that , though gentle born , ye have had a country rearing .
Dinnae shame us , Davie , dinnae shame us !
In yon great , muckle house , with all these domestics , upper and under , show yourself as nice , as circumspect , as quick at the conception , and as slow of speech as any .
As for the laird -- remember he 's the laird ; I say no more : honour to whom honour .
It 's a pleasure to obey a laird ; or should be , to the young . ''
`` Well , sir , '' said I , `` it may be ; and I 'll promise you I 'll try to make it so . ''
`` Why , very well said , '' replied Mr. Campbell , heartily .
`` And now to come to the material , or -LRB- to make a quibble -RRB- to the immaterial .
I have here a little packet which contains four things . ''
He tugged it , as he spoke , and with some great difficulty , from the skirt pocket of his coat .
`` Of these four things , the first is your legal due : the little pickle money for your father 's books and plenishing , which I have bought -LRB- as I have explained from the first -RRB- in the design of re-selling at a profit to the incoming dominie .
The other three are gifties that Mrs. Campbell and myself would be blithe of your acceptance .
The first , which is round , will likely please ye best at the first off-go ; but , O Davie , laddie , it 's but a drop of water in the sea ; it 'll help you but a step , and vanish like the morning .
The second , which is flat and square and written upon , will stand by you through life , like a good staff for the road , and a good pillow to your head in sickness .
And as for the last , which is cubical , that 'll see you , it 's my prayerful wish , into a better land . ''
With that he got upon his feet , took off his hat , and prayed a little while aloud , and in affecting terms , for a young man setting out into the world ; then suddenly took me in his arms and embraced me very hard ; then held me at arm 's length , looking at me with his face all working with sorrow ; and then whipped about , and crying good-bye to me , set off backward by the way that we had come at a sort of jogging run .
It might have been laughable to another ; but I was in no mind to laugh .
I watched him as long as he was in sight ; and he never stopped hurrying , nor once looked back .
Then it came in upon my mind that this was all his sorrow at my departure ; and my conscience smote me hard and fast , because I , for my part , was overjoyed to get away out of that quiet country-side , and go to a great , busy house , among rich and respected gentlefolk of my own name and blood .
`` Davie , Davie , '' I thought , `` was ever seen such black ingratitude ?
Can you forget old favours and old friends at the mere whistle of a name ?
Fie , fie ; think shame . ''
And I sat down on the boulder the good man had just left , and opened the parcel to see the nature of my gifts .
That which he had called cubical , I had never had much doubt of ; sure enough it was a little Bible , to carry in a plaid-neuk .
That which he had called round , I found to be a shilling piece ; and the third , which was to help me so wonderfully both in health and sickness all the days of my life , was a little piece of coarse yellow paper , written upon thus in red ink : `` TO MAKE LILLY OF THE VALLEY WATER .
-- Take the flowers of lilly of the valley and distil them in sack , and drink a spooneful or two as there is occasion .
It restores speech to those that have the dumb palsey .
It is good against the Gout ; it comforts the heart and strengthens the memory ; and the flowers , put into a Glasse , close stopt , and set into ane hill of ants for a month , then take it out , and you will find a liquor which comes from the flowers , which keep in a vial ; it is good , ill or well , and whether man or woman . ''
And then , in the minister 's own hand , was added : `` Likewise for sprains , rub it in ; and for the cholic , a great spooneful in the hour . ''
To be sure , I laughed over this ; but it was rather tremulous laughter ; and I was glad to get my bundle on my staff 's end and set out over the ford and up the hill upon the farther side ; till , just as I came on the green drove-road running wide through the heather , I took my last look of Kirk Essendean , the trees about the manse , and the big rowans in the kirkyard where my father and my mother lay .
CHAPTER II I COME TO MY JOURNEY 'S END On the forenoon of the second day , coming to the top of a hill , I saw all the country fall away before me down to the sea ; and in the midst of this descent , on a long ridge , the city of Edinburgh smoking like a kiln .
There was a flag upon the castle , and ships moving or lying anchored in the firth ; both of which , for as far away as they were , I could distinguish clearly ; and both brought my country heart into my mouth .
Presently after , I came by a house where a shepherd lived , and got a rough direction for the neighbourhood of Cramond ; and so , from one to another , worked my way to the westward of the capital by Colinton , till I came out upon the Glasgow road .
And there , to my great pleasure and wonder , I beheld a regiment marching to the fifes , every foot in time ; an old red-faced general on a grey horse at the one end , and at the other the company of Grenadiers , with their Pope 's - hats .
The pride of life seemed to mount into my brain at the sight of the red coats and the hearing of that merry music .
A little farther on , and I was told I was in Cramond parish , and began to substitute in my inquiries the name of the house of Shaws .
It was a word that seemed to surprise those of whom I sought my way .
At first I thought the plainness of my appearance , in my country habit , and that all dusty from the road , consorted ill with the greatness of the place to which I was bound .
But after two , or maybe three , had given me the same look and the same answer , I began to take it in my head there was something strange about the Shaws itself .
The better to set this fear at rest , I changed the form of my inquiries ; and spying an honest fellow coming along a lane on the shaft of his cart , I asked him if he had ever heard tell of a house they called the house of Shaws .
He stopped his cart and looked at me , like the others .
`` Ay '' said he .
`` What for ? ''
`` It 's a great house ? ''
I asked .
`` Doubtless , '' says he .
`` The house is a big , muckle house . ''
`` Ay , '' said I , `` but the folk that are in it ? ''
`` Folk ? ''
cried he .
`` Are ye daft ?
There 's nae folk there -- to call folk . ''
`` What ? ''
say I ; `` not Mr. Ebenezer ? ''
`` Ou , ay '' says the man ; `` there 's the laird , to be sure , if it 's him you 're wanting .
What 'll like be your business , mannie ? ''
`` I was led to think that I would get a situation , '' I said , looking as modest as I could .
`` What ? ''
cries the carter , in so sharp a note that his very horse started ; and then , `` Well , mannie , '' he added , `` it 's nane of my affairs ; but ye seem a decent-spoken lad ; and if ye 'll take a word from me , ye 'll keep clear of the Shaws . ''
The next person I came across was a dapper little man in a beautiful white wig , whom I saw to be a barber on his rounds ; and knowing well that barbers were great gossips , I asked him plainly what sort of a man was Mr. Balfour of the Shaws .
`` Hoot , hoot , hoot , '' said the barber , `` nae kind of a man , nae kind of a man at all ; '' and began to ask me very shrewdly what my business was ; but I was more than a match for him at that , and he went on to his next customer no wiser than he came .
I can not well describe the blow this dealt to my illusions .
The more indistinct the accusations were , the less I liked them , for they left the wider field to fancy .
What kind of a great house was this , that all the parish should start and stare to be asked the way to it ?
