Jims had no idea who lived there .
He had asked Aunt Augusta and Aunt Augusta had frowned and told him it did not matter who lived there and that he must never , on any account , mention the next house or its occupant to Uncle Walter .
Jims would never have thought of mentioning them to Uncle Walter .
But the prohibition filled him with an unholy and unsubduable curiosity .
He was devoured by the desire to find out who the folks in that tabooed house were .
And he longed to have the freedom of that garden .
Jims loved gardens .
There had been a garden at the little house but there was none here -- nothing but an old lawn that had been fine once but was now badly run to seed .
Jims had heard Uncle Walter say that he was going to have it attended to but nothing had been done yet .
And meanwhile here was a beautiful garden over the wall which looked as if it should be full of children .
But no children were ever in it -- or anybody else apparently .
And so , in spite of its beauty , it had a lonely look that hurt Jims .
He wanted his Garden of Spices to be full of laughter .
He pictured himself running in it with imaginary playmates -- and there was a mother in it -- or a big sister -- or , at the least , a whole aunt who would let you hug her and would never dream of shutting you up in chilly , shadowy , horrible blue rooms .
`` It seems to me , '' said Jims , flattening his nose against the pane , `` that I must get into that garden or bust . ''
Aunt Augusta would have said icily , `` We do not use such expressions , James , '' but Aunt Augusta was not there to hear .
`` I 'm afraid the Very Handsome Cat is n't coming to-day , '' sighed Jims .
Then he brightened up ; the Very Handsome Cat was coming across the lawn .
He was the only living thing , barring birds and butterflies , that Jims ever saw in the garden .
Jims worshipped that cat .
He was jet black , with white paws and dickey , and he had as much dignity as ten cats .
Jims ' fingers tingled to stroke him .
Jims had never been allowed to have even a kitten because Aunt Augusta had a horror of cats .
And you can not stroke gobblers !
The Very Handsome Cat came through the rose garden paths on his beautiful paws , ambled daintily around the rockery , and sat down in a shady spot under a pine tree , right where Jims could see him , through a gap in the little poplars .
He looked straight up at Jims and winked .
At least , Jims always believed and declared he did .
And that wink said , or seemed to say , plainly : `` Be a sport .
Come down here and play with me .
A fig for your Aunt Augusta ! ''
A wild , daring , absurd idea flashed into Jims ' brain .
Could he ?
He could !
He would !
He knew it would be easy .
He had thought it all out many times , although until now he had never dreamed of really doing it .
To unhook the window and swing it open , to step out on the pine bough and from it to another that hung over the wall and dropped nearly to the ground , to spring from it to the velvet sward under the poplars -- why , it was all the work of a minute .
With a careful , repressed whoop Jims ran towards the Very Handsome Cat .
The cat rose and retreated in deliberate haste ; Jims ran after him .
The cat dodged through the rose paths and eluded Jims ' eager hands , just keeping tantalizingly out of reach .
Jims had forgotten everything except that he must catch the cat .
He was full of a fearful joy , with an elfin delight running through it .
He had escaped from the blue room and its ghosts ; he was in his Garden of Spices ; he had got the better of mean old Aunt Augusta .
But he must catch the cat .
The cat ran over the lawn and Jims pursued it through the green gloom of the thickly clustering trees .
Beyond them came a pool of sunshine in which the old stone house basked like a huge grey cat itself .
More garden was before it and beyond it , wonderful with blossom .
Under a huge spreading beech tree in the centre of it was a little tea table ; sitting by the table reading was a lady in a black dress .
The cat , having lured Jims to where he wanted him , sat down and began to lick his paws .
He was quite willing to be caught now ; but Jims had no longer any idea of catching him .
He stood very still , looking at the lady .
She did not see him then and Jims could only see her profile , which he thought very beautiful .
She had wonderful ropes of blue-black hair wound around her head .
She looked so sweet that Jims ' heart beat .
Then she lifted her head and turned her face and saw him .
Jims felt something of a shock .
She was not pretty after all .
One side of her face was marked by a dreadful red scar .
It quite spoilt her good looks , which Jims thought a great pity ; but nothing could spoil the sweetness of her face or the loveliness of her peculiar soft , grey-blue eyes .
Jims could n't remember his mother and had no idea what she looked like , but the thought came into his head that he would have liked her to have eyes like that .
After the first moment Jims did not mind the scar at all .
But perhaps that first moment had revealed itself in his face , for a look of pain came into the lady 's eyes and , almost involuntarily it seemed , she put her hand up to hide the scar .
Then she pulled it away again and sat looking at Jims half defiantly , half piteously .
Jims thought she must be angry because he had chased her cat .
`` I beg your pardon , '' he said gravely , `` I did n't mean to hurt your cat .
I just wanted to play with him .
He is such a very handsome cat . ''
`` But where did you come from ? ''
said the lady .
`` It is so long since I saw a child in this garden , '' she added , as if to herself .
Her voice was as sweet as her face .
Jims thought he was mistaken in thinking her angry and plucked up heart of grace .
Shyness was no fault of Jims .
`` I came from the house over the wall , '' he said .
`` My name is James Brander Churchill .
Aunt Augusta shut me up in the blue room because I spilled my pudding at dinner .
I hate to be shut up .
And I was to have had a ride this afternoon -- and ice cream -- and maybe a movie .
So I was mad .
And when your Very Handsome Cat came and looked at me I just got out and climbed down . ''
He looked straight at her and smiled .
Jims had a very dear little smile .
It seemed a pity there was no mother alive to revel in it .
The lady smiled back .
`` I think you did right , '' she said . ''
You would n't shut a little boy up if you had one , would you ? ''
said Jims .
`` No -- no , dear heart , I would n't , '' said the lady .
She said it as if something hurt her horribly .
She smiled again gallantly .
`` Will you come here and sit down ? ''
she added , pulling a chair out from the table .
`` Thank you .
I 'd rather sit here , '' said Jims , plumping down on the grass at her feet .
`` Then maybe your cat will come to me . ''
The cat came over promptly and rubbed his head against Jims ' knee .
Jims stroked him delightedly ; how lovely his soft fur felt and his round velvety head .
`` I like cats , '' explained Jims , `` and I have nothing but a gobbler .
This is such a Very Handsome Cat .
What is his name , please ? ''
`` Black Prince .
He loves me , '' said the lady .
`` He always comes to my bed in the morning and wakes me by patting my face with his paw .
He does n't mind my being ugly . ''
She spoke with a bitterness Jims could n't understand .
`` But you are not ugly , '' he said .
`` Oh , I am ugly -- I am ugly , '' she cried .
`` Just look at me -- right at me .
Does n't it hurt you to look at me ? ''
Jims looked at her gravely and dispassionately .
`` No , it does n't , '' he said .
`` Not a bit , '' he added , after some further exploration of his consciousness .
Suddenly the lady laughed beautifully .
A faint rosy flush came into her unscarred cheek .
`` James , I believe you mean it . ''
`` Of course I mean it .
And , if you do n't mind , please call me Jims .
Nobody calls me James but Aunt Augusta .
She is n't my whole aunt .
She is just Uncle Walter 's half-sister .
He is my whole uncle . ''
`` What does he call you ? ''
asked the lady .
She looked away as she asked it .
`` Oh , Jims , when he thinks about me .
He does n't often think about me .
He has too many sick children to think about .
Sick children are all Uncle Walter cares about .
He 's the greatest children 's doctor in the Dominion , Mr. Burroughs says .
But he is a woman-hater . ''
`` How do you know that ? ''
`` Oh , I heard Mr. Burroughs say it .
Mr. Burroughs is my tutor , you know .
I study with him from nine till one .
I 'm not allowed to go to the public school .
I 'd like to , but Uncle Walter thinks I 'm not strong enough yet .
I 'm going next year , though , when I 'm ten .
I have holidays now .
Mr. Burroughs always goes away the first of June . ''
`` How came he to tell you your uncle was a woman-hater ? ''
persisted the lady .
`` Oh , he did n't tell me .
He was talking to a friend of his .
He thought I was reading my book .
So I was -- but I heard it all .
It was more interesting than my book .
Uncle Walter was engaged to a lady , long , long ago , when he was a young man .
She was devilishly pretty . ''
`` Oh , Jims ! ''
`` Mr. Burroughs said so .
I 'm only quoting , '' said Jims easily .
`` And Uncle Walter just worshipped her .
And all at once she just jilted him without a word of explanation , Mr. Burroughs said .
So that is why he hates women .
It is n't any wonder , is it ? ''
`` I suppose not , '' said the lady with a sigh .
`` Jims , are you hungry ? ''
`` Yes , I am .
You see , the pudding was spilled .
But how did you know ? ''
`` Oh , boys always used to be hungry when I knew them long ago .
I thought they had n't changed .
I shall tell Martha to bring out something to eat and we 'll have it here under this tree .
You sit here -- I 'll sit there .
Jims , it 's so long since I talked to a little boy that I 'm not sure that I know how . ''
`` You know how , all right , '' Jims assured her .
`` But what am I to call you , please ? ''
`` My name is Miss Garland , '' said the lady a little hesitatingly .
But she saw the name meant nothing to Jims .
`` I would like you to call me Miss Avery .
Avery is my first name and I never hear it nowadays .
Now for a jamboree !
I ca n't offer you a movie -- and I 'm afraid there is n't any ice cream either .
I could have had some if I 'd known you were coming .
But I think Martha will be able to find something good . ''
A very old woman , who looked at Jims with great amazement , came out to set the table .
Jims thought she must be as old as Methusaleh .
But he did not mind her .
He ran races with Black Prince while tea was being prepared , and rolled the delighted cat over and over in the grass .
And he discovered a fragrant herb-garden in a far corner and was delighted .
Now it was truly a garden of spices .
`` Oh , it is so beautiful here , '' he told Miss Avery , who sat and looked at his revels with a hungry expression in her lovely eyes .
`` I wish I could come often . ''
`` Why ca n't you ? ''
said Miss Avery .
The two looked at each other with sly intelligence .
`` I could come whenever Aunt Augusta shuts me up in the blue room , '' said Jims .
`` Yes , '' said Miss Avery .
Then she laughed and held out her arms .
Jims flew into them .
He put his arms about her neck and kissed her scarred face .
`` Oh , I wish you were my aunt , '' he said .
Miss Avery suddenly pushed him away .
Jims was horribly afraid he had offended her .
But she took his hand .
`` We 'll just be chums , Jims , '' she said .
`` That 's really better than being relations , after all .
Come and have tea . ''
Over that glorious tea-table they became life-long friends .
They had always known each other and always would .
The Black Prince sat between them and was fed tit-bits .
There was such a lot of good things on the table and nobody to say `` You have had enough , James . ''
James ate until he thought he had enough .
Aunt Augusta would have thought he was doomed , could she have seen him .
`` I suppose I must go back , '' said Jims with a sigh .
`` It will be our supper time in half an hour and Aunt Augusta will come to take me out . ''
`` But you 'll come again ? ''
`` Yes , the first time she shuts me up .
And if she does n't shut me up pretty soon I 'll be so bad she 'll have to shut me up . ''
`` I 'll always set a place for you at the tea-table after this , Jims .
And when you 're not here I 'll pretend you are .
And when you ca n't come here write me a letter and bring it when you do come . ''
`` Good-bye , '' said Jims .
He took her hand and kissed it .
He had read of a young knight doing that and had always thought he would like to try it if he ever got a chance .
But who could dream of kissing Aunt Augusta 's hands ?
`` You dear , funny thing , '' said Miss Avery .
`` Have you thought of how you are to get back ?
Can you reach that pine bough from the ground ? ''
`` Maybe I can jump , '' said Jims dubiously .
`` I 'm afraid not .
I 'll give you a stool and you can stand on it .
Just leave it there for future use .
Good-bye , Jims .
Jims , two hours ago I did n't know there was such a person in the world as you -- and now I love you -- I love you . ''
Jims ' heart filled with a great warm gush of gladness .
He had always wanted to be loved .
And no living creature , he felt sure , loved him , except his gobbler -- and a gobbler 's love is not very satisfying , though it is better than nothing .
He was blissfully happy as he carried his stool across the lawn .
He climbed his pine and went in at the window and curled up on the seat in a maze of delight .
The blue room was more shadowy than ever but that did not matter .
Over in the Garden of Spices was friendship and laughter and romance galore .
The whole world was transformed for Jims .
From that time Jims lived a shamelessly double life .
Whenever he was shut in the blue room he escaped to the Garden of Spices -- and he was shut in very often , for , Mr. Burroughs being away , he got into a good deal of what Aunt Augusta called mischief .
Besides , it is a sad truth that Jims did n't try very hard to be good now .
He thought it paid better to be bad and be shut up .
To be sure there was always a fly in the ointment .
He was haunted by a vague fear that Aunt Augusta might relent and come to the blue room before supper time to let him out .
`` And then the fat would be in the fire , '' said Jims .
But he had a glorious summer and throve so well on his new diet of love and companionship that one day Uncle Walter , with fewer sick children to think about than usual , looked at him curiously and said : `` Augusta , that boy seems to be growing much stronger .
He has a good color and his eyes are getting to look more like a boy 's eyes should .
We 'll make a man of you yet , Jims . ''
`` He may be getting stronger but he 's getting naughtier , too , '' said Aunt Augusta , grimly .
`` I am sorry to say , Walter , that he behaves very badly . ''
`` We were all young once , '' said Uncle Walter indulgently .
`` Were you ? ''
asked Jims in blank amazement .
Uncle Walter laughed .
`` Do you think me an antediluvian , Jims ? ''
`` I do n't know what that is .
But your hair is gray and your eyes are tired , '' said Jims uncompromisingly .
Uncle Walter laughed again , tossed Jims a quarter , and went out .
`` Your uncle is only forty-five and in his prime , '' said Aunt Augusta dourly .
Jims deliberately ran across the room to the window and , under pretence of looking out , knocked down a flower pot .
So he was exiled to the blue room and got into his beloved Garden of Spices where Miss Avery 's beautiful eyes looked love into his and the Black Prince was a jolly playmate and old Martha petted and spoiled him to her heart 's content .
Jims never asked questions but he was a wide-awake chap , and , taking one thing with another , he found out a good deal about the occupants of the old stone house .
Miss Avery never went anywhere and no one ever went there .
She lived all alone with two old servants , man and maid .
Except these two and Jims nobody had ever seen her for twenty years .
Jims did n't know why , but he thought it must be because of the scar on her face .
He never referred to it , but one day Miss Avery told him what caused it .
`` I dropped a lamp and my dress caught fire and burned my face , Jims .
It made me hideous .
I was beautiful before that -- very beautiful .
Everybody said so .
Come in and I will show you my picture . ''
She took him into her big parlor and showed him the picture hanging on the wall between the two high windows .
It was of a young girl in white .
She certainly was very lovely , with her rose-leaf skin and laughing eyes .
Jims looked at the pictured face gravely , with his hands in his pockets and his head on one side .
Then he looked at Miss Avery .
`` You were prettier then -- yes , '' he said , judicially , `` but I like your face ever so much better now . ''
`` Oh , Jims , you ca n't , '' she protested .
`` Yes , I do , '' persisted Jims .
`` You look kinder and -- nicer now . ''
It was the nearest Jims could get to expressing what he felt as he looked at the picture .
The young girl was beautiful , but her face was a little hard .
There was pride and vanity and something of the insolence of great beauty in it .
There was nothing of that in Miss Avery 's face now -- nothing but sweetness and tenderness , and a motherly yearning to which every fibre of Jims ' small being responded .
How they loved each other , those two !
And how they understood each other !
To love is easy , and therefore common ; but to understand -- how rare that is !
And oh !
such good times as they had !
They made taffy .
Jims had always longed to make taffy , but Aunt Augusta 's immaculate kitchen and saucepans might not be so desecrated .
They read fairy tales together .
Mr. Burroughs had disapproved of fairy tales .
They blew soap-bubbles out on the lawn and let them float away over the garden and the orchard like fairy balloons .
They had glorious afternoon teas under the beech tree .
They made ice cream themselves .
Jims even slid down the bannisters when he wanted to .
And he could try out a slang word or two occasionally without anybody dying of horror .
Miss Avery did not seem to mind it a bit .
At first Miss Avery always wore dark sombre dresses .
But one day Jims found her in a pretty gown of pale primrose silk .
It was very old and old-fashioned , but Jims did not know that .
He capered round her in delight .
`` You like me better in this ? ''
she asked , wistfully .
`` I like you just as well , no matter what you wear , '' said Jims , `` but that dress is awfully pretty . ''
`` Would you like me to wear bright colors , Jims ? ''
`` You bet I would , '' said Jims emphatically .
After that she always wore them -- pink and primrose and blue and white ; and she let Jims wreathe flowers in her splendid hair .
He had quite a knack of it .
She never wore any jewelry except , always , a little gold ring with a design of two clasped hands .
`` A friend gave that to me long ago when we were boy and girl together at school , '' she told Jims once .
`` I never take it off , night or day .
When I die it is to be buried with me . ''
`` You must n't die till I do , '' said Jims in dismay .
`` Oh , Jims , if we could only live together nothing else would matter , '' she said hungrily .
`` Jims -- Jims -- I see so little of you really -- and some day soon you 'll be going to school -- and I 'll lose you . ''
`` I 've got to think of some way to prevent it , '' cried Jims .
`` I wo n't have it .
I wo n't -- I wo n't . ''
But his heart sank notwithstanding .
One day Jims slipped from the blue room , down the pine and across the lawn with a tear-stained face .
`` Aunt Augusta is going to kill my gobbler , '' he sobbed in Miss Avery 's arms .
`` She says she is n't going to bother with him any longer -- and he 's getting old -- and he 's to be killed .
And that gobbler is the only friend I have in the world except you .
Oh , I ca n't stand it , Miss Avery . ''
Next day Aunt Augusta told him the gobbler had been sold and taken away .
And Jims flew into a passion of tears and protest about it and was promptly incarcerated in the blue room .
A few minutes later a sobbing boy plunged through the trees -- and stopped abruptly .
Miss Avery was reading under the beech and the Black Prince was snoozing on her knee -- and a big , magnificent , bronze turkey was parading about on the lawn , twisting his huge fan of a tail this way and that . ''
My gobbler ! ''
cried Jims .
`` Yes .
Martha went to your uncle 's house and bought him .
Oh , she did n't betray you .
She told Nancy Jane she wanted a gobbler and , having seen one over there , thought perhaps she could get him .
See , here 's your pet , Jims , and here he shall live till he dies of old age .
And I have something else for you -- Edward and Martha went across the river yesterday to the Murray Kennels and got it for you . ''
`` Not a dog ? ''
exclaimed Jims .
`` Yes -- a dear little bull pup .
He shall be your very own , Jims , and I only stipulate that you reconcile the Black Prince to him . ''
It was something of a task but Jims succeeded .
Then followed a month of perfect happiness .
At least three afternoons a week they contrived to be together .
It was all too good to be true , Jims felt .
Something would happen soon to spoil it .
Just suppose Aunt Augusta grew tender-hearted and ceased to punish !
Or suppose she suddenly discovered that he was growing too big to be shut up !
Jims began to stint himself in eating lest he grew too fast .
And then Aunt Augusta worried about his loss of appetite and suggested to Uncle Walter that he should be sent to the country till the hot weather was over .
Jims did n't want to go to the country now because his heart was elsewhere .
He must eat again , if he grew like a weed .
It was all very harassing .
Uncle Walter looked at him keenly .
`` It seems to me you 're looking pretty fit , Jims .
Do you want to go to the country ? ''
`` No , please . ''
`` Are you happy , Jims ? ''
`` Sometimes . ''
`` A boy should be happy all the time , Jims . ''
`` If I had a mother and someone to play with I would be . ''
`` I have tried to be a mother to you , Jims , '' said Aunt Augusta , in an offended tone .
Then she addressed Uncle Walter .
`` A younger woman would probably understand him better .
And I feel that the care of this big place is too much for me .
I would prefer to go to my own old home .
If you had married long ago , as you should , Walter , James would have had a mother and some cousins to play with .
I have always been of this opinion . ''
Uncle Walter frowned and got up .
`` Just because one woman played you false is no good reason for spoiling your life , '' went on Aunt Augusta severely .
`` I have kept silence all these years but now I am going to speak -- and speak plainly .
You should marry , Walter .
You are young enough yet and you owe it to your name . ''
`` Listen , Augusta , '' said Uncle Walter sternly .
`` I loved a woman once .
I believed she loved me .
She sent me back my ring one day and with it a message saying she had ceased to care for me and bidding me never to try to look upon her face again .
Well , I have obeyed her , that is all . ''
`` There was something strange about all that , Walter .
The life she has since led proves that .
So you should not let it embitter you against all women . ''
`` I have n't .
It 's nonsense to say I 'm a woman-hater , Augusta .
But that experience has robbed me of the power to care for another woman . ''
`` Well , this is n't a proper conversation for a child to hear , '' said Aunt Augusta , recollecting herself .
`` Jims , go out . ''
Jims would have given one of his ears to stay and listen with the other .
But he went obediently .
And then , the very next day , the dreaded something happened .
It was the first of August and very , very hot .
Jims was late coming to dinner and Aunt Augusta reproved him and Jims , deliberately , and with malice aforethought , told her he thought she was a nasty old woman .
He had never been saucy to Aunt Augusta before .
But it was three days since he had seen Miss Avery and the Black Prince and Nip and he was desperate .
Aunt Augusta crimsoned with anger and doomed Jims to an afternoon in the blue room for impertinence .
`` And I shall tell your uncle when he comes home , '' she added .
That rankled , for Jims did n't want Uncle Walter to think him impertinent .
But he forgot all his worries as he scampered through the Garden of Spices to the beech tree .
And there Jims stopped as if he had been shot .
Prone on the grass under the beech tree , white and cold and still , lay his Miss Avery -- dead , stone dead !
At least Jims drought she was dead .
He flew into the house like a mad thing , shrieking for Martha .
Nobody answered .
Jims recollected , with a rush of sickening dread , that Miss Avery had told him Martha and Edward were going away that day to visit a sister .
He rushed blindly across the lawn again , through the little side gate he had never passed before and down the street home .
Uncle Walter was just opening the door of his car .
`` Uncle Walter -- come -- come , '' sobbed Jims , clutching frantically at his hand .
`` Miss Avery 's dead -- dead -- oh , come quick . '' ''
Who is dead ? ''
`` Miss Avery -- Miss Avery Garland .
She 's lying on the grass over there in her garden .
And I love her so -- and I 'll die , too -- oh , Uncle Walter , come . ''
Uncle Walter looked as if he wanted to ask some questions , but he said nothing .
With a strange face he hurried after Jims .
Miss Avery was still lying there .
As Uncle Walter bent over her he saw the broad red scar and started back with an exclamation .
`` She is dead ? ''
gasped Jims .
`` No , '' said Uncle Walter , bending down again -- `` no , she has only fainted , Jims -- overcome by the heat , I suppose .
I want help .
Go and call somebody . ''
`` There 's no one home here to-day , '' said Jims , in a spasm of joy so great that it shook him like a leaf .
`` Then go home and telephone over to Mr. Loring 's .
Tell them I want the nurse who is there to come here for a few minutes . ''
Jims did his errand .
Uncle Walter and the nurse carried Miss Avery into the house and then Jims went back to the blue room .
He was so unhappy he did n't care where he went .
He wished something would jump at him out of the bed and put an end to him .
Everything was discovered now and he would never see Miss Avery again .
Jims lay very still on the window seat .
He did not even cry .
He had come to one of the griefs that lie too deep for tears .
`` I think I must have been put under a curse at birth , '' thought poor Jims .
* * * * * Over at the stone house Miss Avery was lying on the couch in her room .
The nurse had gone away and Dr. Walter was sitting looking at her .
He leaned forward and pulled away the hand with which she was hiding the scar on her face .
He looked first at the little gold ring on the hand and then at the scar .
`` Do n't , '' she said piteously .
`` Avery -- why did you do it ?
-- why did you do it ? ''
`` Oh , you know -- you must know now , Walter . ''
`` Avery , did you break my heart and spoil my life -- and your own -- simply because your face was scarred ? ''
`` I could n't bear to have you see me hideous , '' she moaned .
`` You had been so proud of my beauty .
I -- I -- thought you could n't love me any more -- I could n't bear the thought of looking in your eyes and seeing aversion there . ''
Walter Grant leaned forward .
`` Look in my eyes , Avery .
Do you see any aversion ? ''
Avery forced herself to look .
What she saw covered her face with a hot blush .
`` Did you think my love such a poor and superficial thing , Avery , '' he said sternly , `` that it must vanish because a blemish came on your fairness ?
Do you think that would change me ?
Was your own love for me so slight ? ''
`` No -- no , '' she sobbed .
`` I have loved you every moment of my life , Walter .
Oh , do n't look at me so sternly . ''
`` If you had even told me , '' he said .
`` You said I was never to try to look on your face again -- and they told me you had gone away .
You sent me back my ring . ''
`` I kept the old one , '' she interrupted , holding out her hand , `` the first one you ever gave me -- do you remember , Walter ?
When we were boy and girl . ''
`` You robbed me of all that made life worth while , Avery .
Do you wonder that I 've been a bitter man ? ''
`` I was wrong -- I was wrong , '' she sobbed .
`` I should have believed in you .
But do n't you think I 've paid , too ?
Forgive me , Walter -- it 's too late to atone -- but forgive me . '' ''
Is it too late ? ''
he asked gravely .
She pointed to the scar .
`` Could you endure seeing this opposite to you every day at your table ? ''
she asked bitterly .
`` Yes -- if I could see your sweet eyes and your beloved smile with it , Avery , '' he answered passionately .
`` Oh , Avery , it was you I loved -- not your outward favor .
Oh , how foolish you were -- foolish and morbid !
You always put too high a value on beauty , Avery .
If I had dreamed of the true state of the case -- if I had known you were here all these years -- why I heard a rumor long ago that you had married , Avery -- but if I had known I would have come to you and made you be -- sensible . ''
She gave a little laugh at his lame conclusion .
That was so like the old Walter .
Then her eyes filled with tears as he took her in his arms .
* * * * * The door of the blue room opened .
Jims did not look up .
It was Aunt Augusta , of course -- and she had heard the whole story .
`` Jims , boy . ''
Jims lifted his miserable eyes .
It was Uncle Walter -- but a different Uncle Walter -- an Uncle Walter with laughing eyes and a strange radiance of youth about him .
`` Poor , lonely little fellow , '' said Uncle Walter unexpectedly .
`` Jims , would you like Miss Avery to come here -- and live with us always -- and be your real aunt ? ''
`` Great snakes ! ''
said Jims , transformed in a second .
`` Is there any chance of that ? ''
`` There is a certainty , thanks to you , '' said Uncle Walter .
`` You can go over to see her for a little while .
Do n't talk her to death -- she 's weak yet -- and attend to that menagerie of yours over there -- she 's worrying because the bull dog and gobbler were n't fed -- and Jims -- '' But Jims had swung down through the pine and was tearing across the Garden of Spices .
The Girl and the Photograph When I heard that Peter Austin was in Vancouver I hunted him up .
I had met Peter ten years before when I had gone east to visit my father 's people and had spent a few weeks with an uncle in Croyden .
The Austins lived across the street from Uncle Tom , and Peter and I had struck up a friendship , although he was a hobbledehoy of awkward sixteen and I , at twenty-two , was older and wiser and more dignified than I 've ever been since or ever expect to be again .
Peter was a jolly little round freckled chap .
He was all right when no girls were around ; when they were he retired within himself like a misanthropic oyster , and was about as interesting .
This was the one point upon which we always disagreed .
Peter could n't endure girls ; I was devoted to them by the wholesale .
The Croyden girls were pretty and vivacious .
I had a score of flirtations during my brief sojourn among them .
But when I went away the face I carried in my memory was not that of any girl with whom I had walked and driven and played the game of hearts .
It was ten years ago , but I had never been quite able to forget that girl 's face .
Yet I had seen it but once and then only for a moment .
I had gone for a solitary ramble in the woods over the river and , in a lonely little valley dim with pines , where I thought myself alone , I had come suddenly upon her , standing ankle-deep in fern on the bank of a brook , the late evening sunshine falling yellowly on her uncovered dark hair .
She was very young -- no more than sixteen ; yet the face and eyes were already those of a woman .
Such a face !
Beautiful ?
Yes , but I thought of that afterward , when I was alone .
With that face before my eyes I thought only of its purity and sweetness , of the lovely soul and rich mind looking out of the great , greyish-blue eyes which , in the dimness of the pine shadows , looked almost black .
There was something in the face of that child-woman I had never seen before and was destined never to see again in any other face .
Careless boy though I was , it stirred me to the deeps .
I felt that she must have been waiting forever in that pine valley for me and that , in finding her , I had found all of good that life could offer me .
I would have spoken to her , but before I could shape my greeting into words that should not seem rude or presumptuous , she had turned and gone , stepping lightly across the brook and vanishing in the maple copse beyond .
For no more than ten seconds had I gazed into her face , and the soul of her , the real woman behind the fair outwardness , had looked back into my eyes ; but I had never been able to forget it .
When I returned home I questioned my cousins diplomatically as to who she might be .
I felt strangely reluctant to do so -- it seemed in some way sacrilege ; yet only by so doing could I hope to discover her .
They could tell me nothing ; nor did I meet her again during the remainder of my stay in Croyden , although I never went anywhere without looking for her , and haunted the pine valley daily , in the hope of seeing her again .
My disappointment was so bitter that I laughed at myself .
I thought I was a fool to feel thus about a girl I had met for a moment in a chance ramble -- a mere child at that , with her hair still hanging in its long glossy schoolgirl braid .
But when I remembered her eyes , my wisdom forgave me .
Well , that was ten years ago ; in those ten years the memory had , I must confess , grown dimmer .
In our busy western life a man had not much time for sentimental recollections .
Yet I had never been able to care for another woman .
I wanted to ; I wanted to marry and settle down .
I had come to the time of life when a man wearies of drifting and begins to hanker for a calm anchorage in some snug haven of his own .
But , somehow , I shirked the matter .
It seemed rather easier to let things slide .
At this stage Peter came west .
He was something in a bank , and was as round and jolly as ever ; but he had evidently changed his attitude towards girls , for his rooms were full of their photos .
They were stuck around everywhere and they were all pretty .
Either Peter had excellent taste , or the Croyden photographers knew how to flatter .
But there was one on the mantel which attracted my attention especially .
If the photo were to be trusted the girl was quite the prettiest I had ever seen .
`` Peter , what pretty girl 's picture is this on your mantel ? ''
I called out to Peter , who was in his bedroom , donning evening dress for some function .
`` That 's my cousin , Marian Lindsay , '' he answered .
`` She is rather nice-looking , is n't she .
Lives in Croyden now -- used to live up the river at Chiselhurst .
Did n't you ever chance across her when you were in Croyden ? ''
`` No , '' I said .
`` If I had I would n't have forgotten her face . ''
`` Well , she 'd be only a kid then , of course .
She 's twenty-six now .
Marian is a mighty nice girl , but she 's bound to be an old maid .
She 's got notions -- ideals , she calls 'em .
All the Croyden fellows have been in love with her at one time or another but they might as well have made up to a statue .
Marian really has n't a spark of feeling or sentiment in her .
Her looks are the best part of her , although she 's confoundedly clever . ''
Peter spoke rather squiffily .
I suspected that he had been one of the smitten swains himself .
I looked at the photo for a few minutes longer , admiring it more every minute and , when I heard Peter coming out , I did an unjustifiable thing -- I took that photo and put it in my pocket .
I expected Peter would make a fuss when he missed it , but that very night the house in which he lived was burned to the ground .
Peter escaped with the most important of his goods and chattels , but all the counterfeit presentments of his dear divinities went up in smoke .
If he ever thought particularly of Marian Lindsay 's photograph he must have supposed that it shared the fate of the others .
As for me , I propped my ill-gotten treasure up on my mantel and worshipped it for a fortnight .
At the end of that time I went boldly to Peter and told him I wanted him to introduce me by letter to his dear cousin and ask her to agree to a friendly correspondence with me .
Oddly enough , I did not do this without some reluctance , in spite of the fact that I was as much in love with Marian Lindsay as it was possible to be through the medium of a picture .
I thought of the girl I had seen in the pine wood and felt an inward shrinking from a step that might divide me from her forever .
But I rated myself for this nonsense .
It was in the highest degree unlikely that I should ever meet the girl of the pines again .
If she were still living she was probably some other man 's wife .
I would think no more about it .
Peter whistled when he heard what I had to say .
`` Of course I 'll do it , old man , '' he said obligingly .
`` But I warn you I do n't think it will be much use .
Marian is n't the sort of girl to open up a correspondence in such a fashion .
However , I 'll do the best I can for you . ''
`` Do .
Tell her I 'm a respectable fellow with no violent bad habits and all that .
I 'm in earnest , Peter .
I want to make that girl 's acquaintance , and this seems the only way at present .
I ca n't get off just now for a trip east .
Explain all this , and use your cousinly influence in my behalf if you possess any . ''
Peter grinned .
`` It 's not the most graceful job in the world you are putting on me , Curtis , '' he said .
`` I do n't mind owning up now that I was pretty far gone on Marian myself two years ago .
It 's all over now , but it was bad while it lasted .
Perhaps Marian will consider your request more favourably if I put it in the light of a favour to myself .
She must feel that she owes me something for wrecking my life . ''
Peter grinned again and looked at the one photo he had contrived to rescue from the fire .
It was a pretty , snub-nosed little girl .
She would never have consoled me for the loss of Marian Lindsay , but every man to his taste .
In due time Peter sought me out to give me his cousin 's answer .
`` Congratulations , Curtis .
You 've out-Caesared Caesar .
You 've conquered without even going and seeing .
Marian agrees to a friendly correspondence with you .
I am amazed , I admit -- even though I did paint you up as a sort of Sir Galahad and Lancelot combined .
I 'm not used to seeing proud Marian do stunts like that , and it rather takes my breath . ''
I wrote to Marian Lindsay after one farewell dream of the girl under the pines .
When Marian 's letters began to come regularly I forgot the other one altogether .
Such letters -- such witty , sparkling , clever , womanly , delightful letters !
They completed the conquest her picture had begun .
Before we had corresponded six months I was besottedly in love with this woman whom I had never seen .
Finally , I wrote and told her so , and I asked her to be my wife .
A fortnight later her answer came .
She said frankly that she believed she had learned to care for me during our correspondence , but that she thought we should meet in person , before coming to any definite understanding .
Could I not arrange to visit Croyden in the summer ?
Until then we would better continue on our present footing .
I agreed to this , but I considered myself practically engaged , with the personal meeting merely to be regarded as a sop to the Cerberus of conventionality .
I permitted myself to use a decidedly lover-like tone in my letters henceforth , and I hailed it as a favourable omen that I was not rebuked for this , although Marian 's own letters still retained their pleasant , simple friendliness .
Peter had at first tormented me mercilessly about the affair , but when he saw I did not like his chaff he stopped it .
Peter was always a good fellow .
He realized that I regarded the matter seriously , and he saw me off when I left for the east with a grin tempered by honest sympathy and understanding .
`` Good luck to you , '' he said .
`` If you win Marian Lindsay you 'll win a pearl among women .
I have n't been able to grasp her taking to you in this fashion , though .
It 's so unlike Marian .
But , since she undoubtedly has , you are a lucky man . ''
I arrived in Croyden at dusk and went to Uncle Tom 's .
There I found them busy with preparations for a party to be given that night in honour of a girl friend who was visiting my cousin Edna .
I was secretly annoyed , for I wanted to hasten at once to Marian .
But I could n't decently get away , and on second thoughts I was consoled by the reflection that she would probably come to the party .
I knew she belonged to the same social set as Uncle Tom 's girls .
I should , however , have preferred our meeting to have been under different circumstances .
From my stand behind the palms in a corner I eagerly scanned the guests as they arrived .
Suddenly my heart gave a bound .
Marian Lindsay had just come in .
I recognized her at once from her photograph .
It had not flattered her in the least ; indeed , it had not done her justice , for her exquisite colouring of hair and complexion were quite lost in it .
She was , moreover , gowned with a taste and smartness eminently admirable in the future Mrs. Eric Curtis .
I felt a thrill of proprietary pride as I stepped out from behind the palms .
She was talking to Aunt Grace ; but her eyes fell on me .
I expected a little start of recognition , for I had sent her an excellent photograph of myself ; but her gaze was one of blankest unconsciousness .
I felt something like disappointment at her non-recognition , but I consoled myself by the reflection that people often fail to recognize other people whom they have seen only in photographs , no matter how good the likeness may be .
I waylaid Edna , who was passing at that time , and said , `` Edna I want you to introduce me to the girl who is talking to your mother . ''
Edna laughed .
`` So you have succumbed at first sight to our Croyden beauty ?
Of course I 'll introduce you , but I warn you beforehand that she is the most incorrigible flirt in Croyden or out of it .
So take care . ''
It jarred on me to hear Marian called a flirt .
It seemed so out of keeping with her letters and the womanly delicacy and fineness revealed in them .
But I reflected that women sometimes find it hard to forgive another woman who absorbs more than her share of lovers , and generally take their revenge by dubbing her a flirt , whether she deserves the name or not .
We had crossed the room during this reflection .
Marian turned and stood before us , smiling at Edna , but evincing no recognition whatever of myself .
It is a piquant experience to find yourself awaiting an introduction to a girl to whom you are virtually engaged .
`` Dorothy dear , '' said Edna , `` this is my cousin , Mr. Curtis , from Vancouver .
Eric , this is Miss Armstrong . ''
I suppose I bowed .
Habit carries us mechanically through many impossible situations .
I do n't know what I looked like or what I said , if I said anything .
I do n't suppose I betrayed my dire confusion , for Edna went off unconcernedly without another glance at me .
Dorothy Armstrong !
Gracious powers -- who -- where -- why ?
If this girl was Dorothy Armstrong who was Marian Lindsay ?
To whom was I engaged ?
There was some awful mistake somewhere , for it could not be possible that there were two girls in Croyden who looked exactly like the photograph reposing in my valise at that very moment .
I stammered like a schoolboy .
`` I -- oh -- I -- your face seems familiar to me , Miss Armstrong .
I -- I -- think I must have seen your photograph somewhere . ''
`` Probably in Peter Austin 's collection , '' smiled Miss Armstrong .
`` He had one of mine before he was burned out .
How is he ? ''
`` Peter ?
Oh , he 's well , '' I replied vaguely .
I was thinking a hundred words to the second , but my thoughts arrived nowhere .
I was staring at Miss Armstrong like a man bewitched .
She must have thought me a veritable booby .
`` Oh , by the way -- can you tell me -- do you know a Miss Lindsay in Croyden ? ''
Miss Armstrong looked surprised and a little bored .
Evidently she was not used to having newly introduced young men inquiring about another girl .
`` Marian Lindsay ?
Oh , yes . ''
`` Is she here tonight ? ''
I said .
`` No , Marian is not going to parties just now , owing to the recent death of her aunt , who lived with them . ''
`` Does she -- oh -- does she look like you at all ? ''
I inquired idiotically .
Amusement glimmered but over Miss Armstrong 's boredom .
She probably concluded that I was some harmless lunatic .
`` Like me ?
Not at all .
There could n't be two people more dissimilar .
Marian is quite dark .
I am fair .
And our features are altogether unlike .
Why , good evening , Jack .
Yes , I believe I did promise you this dance . ''
She bowed to me and skimmed away with Jack .
I saw Aunt Grace bearing down upon me and fled incontinently .
In my own room I flung myself on a chair and tried to think the matter out .
Where did the mistake come in ?
How had it happened ?
I shut my eyes and conjured up the vision of Peter 's room that day .
I remembered vaguely that , when I had picked up Dorothy Armstrong 's picture , I had noticed another photograph that had fallen face downward beside it .
That must have been Marian Lindsay 's , and Peter had thought I meant it .
And now what a position I was in !
I was conscious of bitter disappointment .
I had fallen in love with Dorothy Armstrong 's photograph .
As far as external semblance goes it was she whom I loved .
I was practically engaged to another woman -- a woman who , in spite of our correspondence , seemed to me now , in the shock of this discovery , a stranger .
It was useless to tell myself that it was the mind and soul revealed in those letters that I loved , and that that mind and soul were Marian Lindsay 's .
It was useless to remember that Peter had said she was pretty .
Exteriorly , she was a stranger to me ; hers was not the face which had risen before me for nearly a year as the face of the woman I loved .
Was ever unlucky wretch in such a predicament before ?
Well , there was only one thing to do .
I must stand by my word .
Marian Lindsay was the woman I had asked to marry me , whose answer I must shortly go to receive .
If that answer were `` yes '' I must accept the situation and banish all thought of Dorothy Armstrong 's pretty face .
Next evening at sunset I went to `` Glenwood , '' the Lindsay place .
Doubtless , an eager lover might have gone earlier , but an eager lover I certainly was not .
Probably Marian was expecting me and had given orders concerning me , for the maid who came to the door conveyed me to a little room behind the stairs -- a room which , as I felt as soon as I entered it , was a woman 's pet domain .
In its books and pictures and flowers it spoke eloquently of dainty femininity .
Somehow , it suited the letters .
I did not feel quite so much the stranger as I had felt .
Nevertheless , when I heard a light footfall on the stairs my heart beat painfully .
I stood up and turned to the door , but I could not look up .
The footsteps came nearer ; I knew that a white hand swept aside the portière at the entrance ; I knew that she had entered the room and was standing before me .
With an effort I raised my eyes and looked at her .
She stood , tall and gracious , in a ruby splendour of sunset falling through the window beside her .
The light quivered like living radiance over a dark proud head , a white throat , and a face before whose perfect loveliness the memory of Dorothy Armstrong 's laughing prettiness faded like a star in the sunrise , nevermore in the fullness of the day to be remembered .
Yet it was not of her beauty I thought as I stood spellbound before her .
I seemed to see a dim little valley full of whispering pines , and a girl standing under their shadows , looking at me with the same great , greyish-blue eyes which gazed upon me now from Marian Lindsay 's face -- the same face , matured into gracious womanhood , that I had seen ten years ago ; and loved -- aye , loved -- ever since .
I took an unsteady step forward .
`` Marian ? ''
I said .
* * * * * When I got home that night I burned Dorothy Armstrong 's photograph .
The next day I went to my cousin Tom , who owns the fashionable studio of Croyden and , binding him over to secrecy , sought one of Marian 's latest photographs from him .
It is the only secret I have ever kept from my wife .
Before we were married Marian told me something .
`` I always remembered you as you looked that day under the pines , '' she said .
`` I was only a child , but I think I loved you then and ever afterwards .
When I dreamed my girl 's dream of love your face rose up before me .
I had the advantage of you that I knew your name -- I had heard of you .
When Peter wrote about you I knew who you were .
That was why I agreed to correspond with you .
I was afraid it was a forward -- an unwomanly thing to do .
But it seemed my chance for happiness and I took it .
I am glad I did . ''
I did not answer in words , but lovers will know how I did answer .
The Gossip of Valley View It was the first of April , and Julius Barrett , aged fourteen , perched on his father 's gatepost , watched ruefully the low descending sun , and counted that day lost .
He had not succeeded in `` fooling '' a single person , although he had tried repeatedly .
One and all , old and young , of his intended victims had been too wary for Julius .
Hence , Julius was disgusted and ready for anything in the way of a stratagem or a spoil .
The Barrett gatepost topped the highest hill in Valley View .
Julius could see the entire settlement , from `` Young '' Thomas Everett 's farm , a mile to the west , to Adelia Williams 's weather-grey little house on a moonrise slope to the east .
He was gazing moodily down the muddy road when Dan Chester , homeward bound from the post office , came riding sloppily along on his grey mare and pulled up by the Barrett gate to hand a paper to Julius .
Dan was a young man who took life and himself very seriously .
He seldom smiled , never joked , and had a Washingtonian reputation for veracity .
Dan had never told a conscious falsehood in his life ; he never even exaggerated .
Julius , beholding Dan 's solemn face , was seized with a perfectly irresistible desire to `` fool '' him .
At the same moment his eye caught the dazzling reflection of the setting sun on the windows of Adelia Williams 's house , and he had an inspiration little short of diabolical .
`` Have you heard the news , Dan ? ''
he asked .
`` No , what is it ? ''
asked Dan .
`` I dunno 's I ought to tell it , '' said Julius reflectively .
`` It 's kind of a family affair , but then Adelia did n't say not to , and anyway it 'll be all over the place soon .
So I 'll tell you , Dan , if you 'll promise never to tell who told you .
Adelia Williams and Young Thomas Everett are going to be married . ''
Julius delivered himself of this tremendous lie with a transparently earnest countenance .
Yet Dan , credulous as he was , could not believe it all at once .
`` Git out , '' he said .
`` It 's true , ` pon my word , '' protested Julius .
`` Adelia was up last night and told Ma all about it .
Ma 's her cousin , you know .
The wedding is to be in June , and Adelia asked Ma to help her get her quilts and things ready . ''
Julius reeled all this off so glibly that Dan finally believed the story , despite the fact that the people thus coupled together in prospective matrimony were the very last people in Valley View who could have been expected to marry each other .
Young Thomas was a confirmed bachelor of fifty , and Adelia Williams was forty ; they were not supposed to be even well acquainted , as the Everetts and the Williamses had never been very friendly , although no open feud existed between them .
Nevertheless , in view of Julius 's circumstantial statements , the amazing news must be true , and Dan was instantly agog to carry it further .
Julius watched Dan and the grey mare out of sight , fairly writhing with ecstasy .
Oh , but Dan had been easy !
The story would be all over Valley View in twenty-four hours .
Julius laughed until he came near to falling off the gatepost .
At this point Julius and Danny drop out of our story , and Young Thomas enters .
It was two days later when Young Thomas heard that he was to be married to Adelia Williams in June .
Eben Clark , the blacksmith , told him when he went to the forge to get his horse shod .
Young Thomas laughed his big jolly laugh .
Valley View gossip had been marrying him off for the last thirty years , although never before to Adelia Williams .
`` It 's news to me , '' he said tolerantly .
Eben grinned broadly .
`` Ah , you ca n't bluff it off like that , Tom , '' he said .
`` The news came too straight this time .
Well , I was glad to hear it , although I was mighty surprised .
I never thought of you and Adelia .
But she 's a fine little woman and will make you a capital wife . ''
Young Thomas grunted and drove away .
He had a good deal of business to do that day , involving calls at various places -- the store for molasses , the mill for flour , Jim Bentley 's for seed grain , the doctor 's for toothache drops for his housekeeper , the post office for mail -- and at each and every place he was joked about his approaching marriage .
In the end it rather annoyed Young Thomas , He drove home at last in what was for him something of a temper .
How on earth had that fool story started ?
With such detailed circumstantiality of rugs and quilts , too ?
Adelia Williams must be going to marry somebody , and the Valley View gossips , unable to locate the man , had guessed Young Thomas .
When he reached home , tired , mud-bespattered , and hungry , his housekeeper , who was also his hired man 's wife , asked him if it was true that he was going to be married .
Young Thomas , taking in at a glance the ill-prepared , half-cold supper on the table , felt more annoyed than ever , and said it was n't , with a strong expression -- not quite an oath -- for Young Thomas never swore , unless swearing be as much a matter of intonation as of words .
Mrs. Dunn sighed , patted her swelled face , and said she was sorry ; she had hoped it was true , for her man had decided to go west .
They were to go in a month 's time .
Young Thomas sat down to his supper with the prospect of having to look up another housekeeper and hired man before planting to destroy his appetite .
Next day , three people who came to see Young Thomas on business congratulated him on his approaching marriage .
Young Thomas , who had recovered his usual good humour , merely laughed .
There was no use in being too earnest in denial , he thought .
He knew that his unusual fit of petulance with his housekeeper had only convinced her that the story was true .
It would die away in time , as other similar stories had died , he thought .
Valley View gossip was imaginative .
Young Thomas looked rather serious , however , when the minister and his wife called that evening and referred to the report .
Young Thomas gravely said that it was unfounded .
The minister looked graver still and said he was sorry -- he had hoped it was true .
His wife glanced significantly about Young Thomas 's big , untidy sitting-room , where there were cobwebs on the ceiling and fluff in the corners and dust on the mop-board , and said nothing , but looked volumes .
`` Dang it all , '' said Young Thomas , as they drove away , `` they 'll marry me yet in spite of myself . ''
The gossip made him think about Adelia Williams .
He had never thought about her before ; he was barely acquainted with her .
Now he remembered that she was a plump , jolly-looking little woman , noted for being a good housekeeper .
Then Young Thomas groaned , remembering that he must start out looking for a housekeeper soon ; and housekeepers were not easily found , as Young Thomas had discovered several times since his mother 's death ten years before .
Next Sunday in church Young Thomas looked at Adelia Williams .
He caught Adelia looking at him .
Adelia blushed and looked guiltily away .
`` Dang it all , '' reflected Young Thomas , forgetting that he was in church .
`` I suppose she has heard that fool story too .
I 'd like to know the person who started it ; man or woman , I 'd punch their head . ''
Nevertheless , Young Thomas went on looking at Adelia by fits and starts , although he did not again catch Adelia looking at him .
He noticed that she had round rosy cheeks and twinkling brown eyes .
She did not look like an old maid , and Young Thomas wondered that she had been allowed to become one .
Sarah Barnett , now , to whom report had married him a year ago , looked like a dried sour apple .
* * * * * For the next four weeks the story haunted Young Thomas like a spectre .
Down it would not .
Everywhere he went he was joked about it .
It gathered fresh detail every week .
Adelia was getting her clothes ready ; she was to be married in seal-brown cashmere ; Vinnie Lawrence at Valley Centre was making it for her ; she had got a new hat with a long ostrich plume ; some said white , some said grey .
Young Thomas kept wondering who the man could be , for he was convinced that Adelia was going to marry somebody .
More than that , once he caught himself wondering enviously .
Adelia was a nice-looking woman , and he had not so far heard of any probable housekeeper .
`` Dang it all , '' said Young Thomas to himself in desperation .
`` I would n't care if it was true . ''
His married sister from Carlisle heard the story and came over to investigate .
Young Thomas denied it shortly , and his sister scolded .
She had devoutly hoped it was true , she said , and it would have been a great weight off her mind .
`` This house is in a disgraceful condition , Thomas , '' she said severely .
`` It would break Mother 's heart if she could rise out of her grave to see it .
And Adelia Williams is a perfect housekeeper . ''
`` You did n't use to think so much of the Williams crowd , '' said Young Thomas drily .
`` Oh , some of them do n't amount to much , '' admitted Maria , `` but Adelia is all right . ''
Catching sight of an odd look on Young Thomas 's face , she added hastily , `` Thomas Everett , I believe it 's true after all .
Now , is it ?
For mercy 's sake do n't be so sly .
You might tell me , your own and only sister , if it is . ''
`` Oh , shut up , '' was Young Thomas 's unfeeling reply to his own and only sister .
Young Thomas told himself that night that Valley View gossip would drive him into an asylum yet if it did n't let up .
He also wondered if Adelia was as much persecuted as himself .
No doubt she was .
He never could catch her eye in church now , but he would have been surprised had he realized how many times he tried to .
The climax came the third week in May , when Young Thomas , who had been keeping house for himself for three weeks , received a letter and an express box from his cousin , Charles Everett , out in Manitoba .
Charles and he had been chums in their boyhood .
They corresponded occasionally still , although it was twenty years since Charles had gone west .
The letter was to congratulate Young Thomas on his approaching marriage .
Charles had heard of it through some Valley View correspondents of his wife .
He was much pleased ; he had always liked Adelia , he said -- had been an old beau of hers , in fact .
Thomas might give her a kiss for him if he liked .
He forwarded a wedding present by express and hoped they would be very happy , etc. .
The present was an elaborate hatrack of polished buffalo horns , mounted on red plush , with an inset mirror .
Young Thomas set it up on the kitchen table and scowled moodily at his reflection in the mirror .
If wedding presents were beginning to come , it was high time something was done .
The matter was past being a joke .
This affair of the present would certainly get out -- things always got out in Valley View , dang it all -- and he would never hear the last of it .
`` I 'll marry , '' said Young Thomas decisively .
`` If Adelia Williams wo n't have me , I 'll marry the first woman who will , if it 's Sarah Barnett herself . ''
Young Thomas shaved and put on his Sunday suit .
As soon as it was safely dark , he hied him away to Adelia Williams .
He felt very doubtful about his reception , but the remembrance of the twinkle in Adelia 's brown eyes comforted him .
She looked like a woman who had a sense of humour ; she might not take him , but she would not feel offended or insulted because he asked her .
`` Dang it all , though , I hope she will take me , '' said Young Thomas .
`` I 'm in for getting married now and no mistake .
And I ca n't get Adelia out of my head .
I 've been thinking of her steady ever since that confounded gossip began . ''
When he knocked at Adelia 's door he discovered that his face was wet with perspiration .
Adelia opened the door and started when she saw him ; then she turned very red and stiffly asked him in .
Young Thomas went in and sat down , wondering if all men felt so horribly uncomfortable when they went courting .
Adelia stooped low over the woodbox to put a stick of wood in the stove , for the May evening was chilly .
Her shoulders were shaking ; the shaking grew worse ; suddenly Adelia laughed hysterically and , sitting down on the woodbox , continued to laugh .
Young Thomas eyed her with a friendly grin .
`` Oh , do excuse me , '' gasped poor Adelia , wiping tears from her eyes .
`` This is -- dreadful -- I did n't mean to laugh -- I do n't know why I 'm laughing -- but -- I -- ca n't help it . ''
She laughed helplessly again .
Young Thomas laughed too .
His embarrassment vanished in the mellowness of that laughter .
Presently Adelia composed herself and removed from the woodbox to a chair , but there was still a suspicious twitching about the corners of her mouth .
`` I suppose , '' said Young Thomas , determined to have it over with before the ice could form again , `` I suppose , Adelia , you 've heard the story that 's been going about you and me of late ? ''
Adelia nodded .
`` I 've been persecuted to the verge of insanity with it , '' she said .
`` Every soul I 've seen has tormented me about it , and people have written me about it .
I 've denied it till I was black in the face , but nobody believed me .
I ca n't find out how it started .
I hope you believe , Mr. Everett , that it could n't possibly have arisen from anything I said .
I 've felt dreadfully worried for fear you might think it did .
I heard that my cousin , Lucilla Barrett , said I told her , but Lucilla vowed to me that she never said such a thing or even dreamed of it .
I 've felt dreadful bad over the whole affair .
I even gave up the idea of making a quilt after a lovely new pattern I 've got because they made such a talk about my brown dress . ''
`` I 've been kind of supposing that you must be going to marry somebody , and folks just guessed it was me , '' said Young Thomas -- he said it anxiously .
`` No , I 'm not going to be married to anybody , '' said Adelia with a laugh , taking up her knitting .
`` I 'm glad of that , '' said Young Thomas gravely .
`` I mean , '' he hastened to add , seeing the look of astonishment on Adelia 's face , `` that I 'm glad there is n't any other man because -- because I want you myself , Adelia . ''
Adelia laid down her knitting and blushed crimson .
But she looked at Young Thomas squarely and reproachfully .
`` You need n't think you are bound to say that because of the gossip , Mr. Everett , '' she said quietly .
`` Oh , I do n't , '' said Young Thomas earnestly .
`` But the truth is , the story set me to thinking about you , and from that I got to wishing it was true -- honest , I did -- I could n't get you out of my head , and at last I did n't want to .
It just seemed to me that you were the very woman for me if you 'd only take me .
Will you , Adelia ?
I 've got a good farm and house , and I 'll try to make you happy . ''
It was not a very romantic wooing , perhaps .
But Adelia was forty and had never been a romantic little body even in the heyday of youth .
She was a practical woman , and Young Thomas was a fine looking man of his age with abundance of worldly goods .
Besides , she liked him , and the gossip had made her think a good deal about him of late .
Indeed , in a moment of candour she had owned to herself the very last Sunday in church that she would n't mind if the story were true .
`` I 'll -- I 'll think of it , '' she said .
This was practically an acceptance , and Young Thomas so understood it .
Without loss of time he crossed the kitchen , sat down beside Adelia , and put his arms about her plump waist .
`` Here 's a kiss Charlie sent me to give you , '' he said , giving it .
The Letters Just before the letter was brought to me that evening I was watching the red November sunset from the library window .
It was a stormy , unrestful sunset , gleaming angrily through the dark fir boughs that were now and again tossed suddenly and distressfully in a fitful gust of wind .
Below , in the garden , it was quite dark , and I could only see dimly the dead leaves that were whirling and dancing uncannily over the roseless paths .
The poor dead leaves -- yet not quite dead !
There was still enough unquiet life left in them to make them restless and forlorn .
They hearkened yet to every call of the wind , who cared for them no longer but only played freakishly with them and broke their rest .
I felt sorry for the leaves as I watched them in that dull , weird twilight , and angry -- in a petulant fashion that almost made me laugh -- with the wind that would not leave them in peace .
Why should they -- and I -- be vexed with these transient breaths of desire for a life that had passed us by ?
I was in the grip of a bitter loneliness that evening -- so bitter and so insistent that I felt I could not face the future at all , even with such poor fragments of courage as I had gathered about me after Father 's death , hoping that they would , at least , suffice for my endurance , if not for my content .
But now they fell away from me at sight of the emptiness of life .
The emptiness !
Ah , it was from that I shrank .
I could have faced pain and anxiety and heartbreak undauntedly , but I could not face that terrible , yawning , barren emptiness .
I put my hands over my eyes to shut it out , but it pressed in upon my consciousness insistently , and would not be ignored longer .
The moment when a woman realizes that she has nothing to live for -- neither love nor purpose nor duty -- holds for her the bitterness of death .
She is a brave woman indeed who can look upon such a prospect unquailingly , and I was not brave .
I was weak and timid .
Had not Father often laughed mockingly at me because of it ?
It was three weeks since Father had died -- my proud , handsome , unrelenting old father , whom I had loved so intensely and who had never loved me .
I had always accepted this fact unresentfully and unquestioningly , but it had steeped my whole life in its tincture of bitterness .
Father had never forgiven me for two things .
I had cost my mother 's life and I was not a son to perpetuate the old name and carry on the family feud with the Frasers .
I was a very lonely child , with no playmates or companions of any sort , and my girlhood was lonelier still .
The only passion in my life was my love for my father .
I would have done and suffered anything to win his affection in return .
But all I ever did win was an amused tolerance -- and I was grateful for that -- almost content .
It was much to have something to love and be permitted to love it .
If I had been a beautiful and spirited girl I think Father might have loved me , but I was neither .
At first I did not think or care about my lack of beauty ; then one day I was alone in the beech wood ; I was trying to disentangle my skirt which had caught on some thorny underbrush .
A young man came around the curve of the path and , seeing my predicament , bent with murmured apology to help me .
He had to kneel to do it , and I saw a ray of sunshine falling through the beeches above us strike like a lance of light athwart the thick brown hair that pushed out from under his cap .
Before I thought I put out my hand and touched it softly , then I blushed crimson with shame over what I had done .
But he did not know -- he never knew .
When he had released my dress he rose and our eyes met for a moment as I timidly thanked him .
I saw that he was good to look upon -- tall and straight , with broad , stalwart shoulders and a dark , clean-cut face .
He had a firm , sensitive mouth and kindly , pleasant , dark blue eyes .
I never quite forgot the look in those eyes .
It made my heart beat strangely , but it was only for a moment , and the next he had lifted his cap and passed on .
As I went homeward I wondered who he might be .
He must be a stranger , I thought -- probably a visitor in some of our few neighbouring families .
I wondered too if I should meet him again , and found the thought very pleasant .
I knew few men and they were all old , like Father , or at least elderly .
They were the only people who ever came to our house , and they either teased me or overlooked me .
None of them was at all like this young man I had met in the beech wood , nor ever could have been , I thought .
When I reached home I stopped before the big mirror that hung in the hall and did what I had never done before in my life -- looked at myself very scrutinizingly and wondered if I had any beauty .
I could only sorrowfully conclude that I had not -- I was so slight and pale , and the thick black hair and dark eyes that might have been pretty in another woman seemed only to accentuate the lack of spirit and regularity in my features .
I was still standing there , gazing wistfully at my mirrored face with a strange sinking of spirit , when Father came through the hall , his riding whip in his hand .
Seeing me , he laughed .
`` Do n't waste your time gazing into mirrors , Isobel , '' he said carelessly .
`` That might have been excusable in former ladies of Shirley whose beauty might pardon and even adorn vanity , but with you it is only absurd .
The needle and the cookbook are all that you need concern yourself with . ''
I was accustomed to such speeches from him , but they had never hurt me so cruelly before .
At that moment I would have given all the world only to be beautiful .
The next Sunday I looked across the church , and in the Fraser pew I saw the young man I had met in the wood .
He was looking at me with his arms folded over his breast and on his brow a little frown that seemed somehow indicative of pain and surprise .
I felt a miserable sense of disappointment .
If he were the Frasers ' guest I could not expect to meet him again .
Father hated the Frasers , all the Shirleys hated them ; it was an old feud , bitter and lasting , that had been as much our inheritance for generations as land and money .
The only thing Father had ever taken pains to teach me was detestation of the Frasers and all their works .
I accepted this as I accepted all the other traditions of my race .
I thought it did not matter much .
The Frasers were not likely to come my way , and hatred was a good satisfying passion in the lack of all else .
I think I rather took a pride in hating them as became my blood .
I did not look at the Fraser pew again , but outside , under the elms , we met him , standing in the dappling light and shadow .
He looked very handsome and a little sad .
I could not help glancing back over my shoulder as Father and I walked to the gate , and I saw him looking after us with that little frown which again made me think something had hurt him .
I liked better the smile he had worn in the beech wood , but I had an odd liking for the frown too , and I think I had a foolish longing to go back to him , put up my fingers and smooth it away .
`` So Alan Fraser has come home , '' said my father .
`` Alan Fraser ? ''
I repeated , with a strange , horrible feeling of coldness and chill coming over me like a shadow on a bright day .
Alan Fraser , the son of old Malcolm Fraser of Glenellyn !
The son of our enemy !
He had been living since childhood with his dead mother 's people , so much I knew .
And this was he !
Something stung and smarted in my eyes .
I think the sting and smart might have turned to tears if Father had not been looking down at me .
`` Yes .
Did n't you see him in his father 's pew ?
But I forgot .
You are too demure to be looking at the young men in preaching -- or out of it , Isobel .
You are a model young woman .
Odd that the men never like the model young women !
Curse old Malcolm Fraser !
What right has he to have a son like that when I have nothing but a puling girl ?
Remember , Isobel , that if you ever meet that young man you are not to speak to or look at him , or even intimate that you are aware of his existence .
He is your enemy and the enemy of your race .
You will show him that you realize this . ''
Of course that ended it all -- though just what there had been to end would have been hard to say .
Not long afterwards I met Alan Fraser again , when I was out for a canter on my mare .
He was strolling through the beech wood with a couple of big collies , and he stopped short as I drew near .
I had to do it -- Father had decreed -- my Shirley pride demanded -- that I should do it .
I looked him unseeingly in the face , struck my mare a blow with my whip , and dashed past him .
I even felt angry , I think , that a Fraser should have the power to make me feel so badly in doing my duty .
After that I had forgotten .
There was nothing to make me remember , for I never met Alan Fraser again .
The years slipped by , one by one , so like each other in their colourlessness that I forgot to take account of them .
I only knew that I grew older and that it did not matter since there was nobody to care .
One day they brought Father in , white-lipped and groaning .
His mare had thrown him , and he was never to walk again , although he lived for five years .
Those five years had been the happiest of my life .
For the first time I was necessary to someone -- there was something for me to do which nobody else could do so well .
I was Father 's nurse and companion ; and I found my pleasure in tending him and amusing him , soothing his hours of pain and brightening his hours of ease .
People said I `` did my duty '' toward him .
I had never liked that word `` duty , '' since the day I had ridden past Alan Fraser in the beech wood .
I could not connect it with what I did for Father .
It was my delight because I loved him .
I did not mind the moods and the irritable outbursts that drove others from him .
But now he was dead , and I sat in the sullen dusk , wishing that I need not go on with life either .
The loneliness of the big echoing house weighed on my spirit .
I was solitary , without companionship .
I looked out on the outside world where the only sign of human habitation visible to my eyes was the light twinkling out from the library window of Glenellyn on the dark fir hill two miles away .
By that light I knew Alan Fraser must have returned from his long sojourn abroad , for it only shone when he was at Glenellyn .
He still lived there , something of a hermit , people said ; he had never married , and he cared nothing for society .
His companions were books and dogs and horses ; he was given to scientific researches and wrote much for the reviews ; he travelled a great deal .
So much I knew in a vague way .
I even saw him occasionally in church , and never thought the years had changed him much , save that his face was sadder and sterner than of old and his hair had become iron-grey .
People said that he had inherited and cherished the old hatred of the Shirleys -- that he was very bitter against us .
I believed it .
He had the face of a good hater -- or lover -- a man who could play with no emotion but must take it in all earnestness and intensity .
When it was quite dark the housekeeper brought in the lights and handed me a letter which , she said , a man had just brought up from the village post office .
I looked at it curiously before I opened it , wondering from whom it was .
It was postmarked from a city several miles away , and the firm , decided , rather peculiar handwriting was strange to me .
I had no correspondents .
After Father 's death I had received a few perfunctory notes of condolence from distant relatives and family friends .
They had hurt me cruelly , for they seemed to exhale a subtle spirit of congratulation on my being released from a long and unpleasant martyrdom of attendance on an invalid , that quite overrode the decorous phrases of conventional sympathy in which they were expressed .
I hated those letters for their implied injustice .
I was not thankful for my `` release . ''
I missed Father miserably and longed passionately for the very tasks and vigils that had evoked their pity .
This letter did not seem like one of those .
I opened it and took out some stiff , blackly written sheets .
They were undated and , turning to the last , I saw that they were unsigned .
With a not unpleasant tingling of interest I sat down by my desk to read .
The letter began abruptly : You will not know by whom this is written .
Do not seek to know -- now or ever .
It is only from behind the veil of your ignorance of my identity that I can ever write to you fully and freely as I wish to write -- can say what I wish to say in words denied to a formal and conventional expression of sympathy .
Dear lady , let me say to you thus what is in my heart .
I know what your sorrow is , and I think I know what your loneliness must be -- the sorrow of a broken tie , the loneliness of a life thrown emptily back on itself .
I know how you loved your father -- how you must have loved him if those eyes and brow and mouth speak truth , for they tell of a nature divinely rich and deep , giving of its wealth and tenderness ungrudgingly to those who are so happy as to be the objects of its affection .
To such a nature bereavement must bring a depth and an agony of grief unknown to shallower souls .
I know what your father 's helplessness and need of you meant to you .
I know that now life must seem to you a broken and embittered thing and , knowing this , I venture to send this greeting across the gulf of strangerhood between us , telling you that my understanding sympathy is fully and freely yours , and bidding you take heart for the future , which now , it may be , looks so heartless and hopeless to you .
Believe me , dear lady , it will be neither .
Courage will come to you with the kind days .
You will find noble tasks to do , beautiful and gracious duties waiting along your path .
The pain and suffering of the world never dies , and while it lives there will be work for such as you to do , and in the doing of it you will find comfort and strength and the highest joy of living .
I believe in you .
I believe you will make of your life a beautiful and worthy thing .
I give you Godspeed for the years to come .
Out of my own loneliness I , an unknown friend , who has never clasped your hand , send this message to you .
I understand -- I have always understood -- and I say to you : `` Be of good cheer . ''
To say that this strange letter was a mystery to me seems an inadequate way of stating the matter .
I was completely bewildered , nor could I even guess who the writer might be , think and ponder as I might .
The letter itself implied that the writer was a stranger .
The handwriting was evidently that of a man , and I knew no man who could or would have sent such a letter to me .
The very mystery stung me to interest .
As for the letter itself , it brought me an uplift of hope and inspiration such as I would not have believed possible an hour earlier .
It rang so truly and sincerely , and the mere thought that somewhere I had a friend who cared enough to write it , even in such odd fashion , was so sweet that I was half ashamed of the difference it made in my outlook .
Sitting there , I took courage and made a compact with myself that I would justify the writer 's faith in me -- that I would take up my life as something to be worthily lived for all good , to the disregard of my own selfish sorrow and shrinking .
I would seek for something to do -- for interests which would bind me to my fellow-creatures -- for tasks which would lessen the pains and perils of humankind .
An hour before , this would not have seemed to me possible ; now it seemed the right and natural thing to do .
A week later another letter came .
I welcomed it with an eagerness which I feared was almost childish .
It was a much longer letter than the first and was written in quite a different strain .
There was no apology for or explanation of the motive for writing .
It was as if the letter were merely one of a permitted and established correspondence between old friends .
It began with a witty , sparkling review of a new book the writer had just read , and passed from this to crisp comments on the great events , political , scientific , artistic , of the day .
The whole letter was pungent , interesting , delightful -- an impersonal essay on a dozen vital topics of life and thought .
Only at the end was a personal note struck .
`` Are you interested in these things ? ''
ran the last paragraph .
`` In what is being done and suffered and attained in the great busy world ?
I think you must be -- for I have seen you and read what is written in your face .
I believe you care for these things as I do -- that your being thrills to the ` still , sad music of humanity ' -- that the songs of the poets I love find an echo in your spirit and the aspirations of all struggling souls a sympathy in your heart .
Believing this , I have written freely to you , taking a keen pleasure in thus revealing my thoughts and visions to one who will understand .
For I too am friendless , in the sense of one standing alone , shut out from the sweet , intimate communion of feeling and opinion that may be held with the heart 's friends .
Shall you have read this as a friend , I wonder -- a candid , uncritical , understanding friend ?
Let me hope it , dear lady . ''
I was expecting the third letter when it came -- but not until it did come did I realize what my disappointment would have been if it had not .
After that every week brought me a letter ; soon those letters were the greatest interest in my life .
I had given up all attempts to solve the mystery of their coming and was content to enjoy them for themselves alone .
From week to week I looked forward to them with an eagerness that I would hardly confess , even to myself .
And such letters as they were , growing longer and fuller and freer as time went on -- such wise , witty , brilliant , pungent letters , stimulating all my torpid life into tingling zest !
I had begun to look abroad in my small world for worthy work and found plenty to do .
My unknown friend evidently kept track of my expanding efforts , for he commented and criticized , encouraged and advised freely .
There was a humour in his letters that I liked ; it leavened them with its sanity and reacted on me most wholesomely , counteracting many of the morbid tendencies and influences of my life .
I found myself striving to live up to the writer 's ideal of philosophy and ambition , as pictured , often unconsciously , in his letters .
They were an intellectual stimulant as well .
To understand them fully I found it necessary to acquaint myself thoroughly with the literature and art , the science and the politics they touched upon .
After every letter there was something new for me to hunt out and learn and assimilate , until my old narrow mental attitude had so broadened and deepened , sweeping out into circles of thought I had never known or imagined , that I hardly knew myself .
They had been coming for a year before I began to reply to them .
I had often wished to do so -- there were so many things I wanted to say and discuss , but it seemed foolish to write letters that could not be sent .
One day a letter came that kindled my imagination and stirred my heart and soul so deeply that they insistently demanded answering expression .
I sat down at my desk and wrote a full reply to it .
Safe in the belief that the mysterious friend to whom it was written would never see it , I wrote with a perfect freedom and a total lack of self-consciousness that I could never have attained otherwise .
The writing of that letter gave me a pleasure second only to that which the reading of his brought .
For the first time I discovered the delight of revealing my thought unhindered by the conventions .
Also , I understood better why the writer of those letters had written them .
Doubtless he had enjoyed doing so and was not impelled thereto simply by a purely philanthropic wish to help me .
When my letter was finished I sealed it up and locked it away in my desk with a smile at my middle-aged folly .
What , I wondered , would all my sedate , serious friends , my associates of mission and hospital committees think if they knew .
Well , everybody has , or should have , a pet nonsense in her life .
I did not think mine was any sillier than some others I knew , and to myself I admitted that it was very sweet .
I knew if those letters ceased to come all savour would go out of my life .
After that I wrote a reply to every letter I received and kept them all locked up together .
It was delightful .
I wrote out all my doings and perplexities and hopes and plans and wishes -- yes , and my dreams .
The secret romance of it all made me look on existence with joyous , contented eyes .
Gradually a change crept over the letters I received .
Without ever affording the slightest clue to the identity of their writer they grew more intimate and personal .
A subtle , caressing note of tenderness breathed from them and thrilled my heart curiously .
I felt as if I were being drawn into the writer 's life , admitted into the most sacred recesses of his thoughts and feelings .
Yet it was all done so subtly , so delicately , that I was unconscious of the change until I discovered it in reading over the older letters and comparing them with the later ones .
Finally a letter came -- my first love letter , and surely never was a love letter received under stranger circumstances .
It began abruptly as all the letters had begun , plunging into the middle of the writer 's strain of thought without any preface .
The first words drove the blood to my heart and then sent it flying hotly all over my face .
I love you .
I must say it at last .
Have you not guessed it before ?
It has trembled on my pen in every line I have written to you -- yet I have never dared to shape it into words before .
I know not how I dare now .
I only know that I must .
What a delight to write it out and know that you will read it .
Tonight the mood is on me to tell it to you recklessly and lavishly , never pausing to stint or weigh words .
Sweetheart , I love you -- love you -- love you -- dear true , faithful woman soul , I love you with all the heart of a man .
Ever since I first saw you I have loved you .
I can never come to tell you so in spoken words ; I can only love you from afar and tell my love under the guise of impersonal friendship .
It matters not to you , but it matters more than all else in life to me .
I am glad that I love you , dear -- glad , glad , glad .
There was much more , for it was a long letter .
When I had read it I buried my burning face in my hands , trembling with happiness .
This strange confession of love meant so much to me ; my heart leaped forth to meet it with answering love .
What mattered it that we could never meet -- that I could not even guess who my lover was ?
Somewhere in the world was a love that was mine alone and mine wholly and mine forever .
What mattered his name or his station , or the mysterious barrier between us ?
Spirit leaped to spirit unhindered over the fettering bounds of matter and time .
I loved and was beloved .
Nothing else mattered .
I wrote my answer to his letter .
I wrote it fearlessly and unstintedly .
Perhaps I could not have written so freely if the letter were to have been read by him ; as it was , I poured out the riches of my love as fully as he had done .
I kept nothing back , and across the gulf between us I vowed a faithful and enduring love in response to his .
The next day I went to town on business with my lawyers .
Neither of the members of the firm was in when I called , but I was an old client , and one of the clerks showed me into the private office to wait .
As I sat down my eyes fell on a folded letter lying on the table beside me .
With a shock of surprise I recognized the writing .
I could not be mistaken -- I should have recognized it anywhere .
The letter was lying by its envelope , so folded that only the middle third of the page was visible .
An irresistible impulse swept over me .
Before I could reflect that I had no business to touch the letter , that perhaps it was unfair to my unknown friend to seek to discover his identity when he wished to hide it , I had turned the letter over and seen the signature .
I laid it down again and stood up , dizzy , breathless , unseeing .
Like a woman in a dream I walked through the outer office and into the street .
I must have walked on for blocks before I became conscious of my surroundings .
The name I had seen signed to that letter was Alan Fraser !
No doubt the reader has long ago guessed it -- has wondered why I had not .
The fact remains that I had not .
Out of the whole world Alan Fraser was the last man whom I should have suspected to be the writer of those letters -- Alan Fraser , my hereditary enemy , who , I had been told , cherished the old feud so faithfully and bitterly , and hated our very name .
And yet I now wondered at my long blindness .
No one else could have written those letters -- no one but him .
I read them over one by one when I reached home and , now that I possessed the key , he revealed himself in every line , expression , thought .
And he loved me !
I thought of the old feud and hatred ; I thought of my pride and traditions .
They seemed like the dust and ashes of outworn things -- things to be smiled at and cast aside .
I took out all the letters I had written -- all except the last one -- sealed them up in a parcel and directed it to Alan Fraser .
Then , summoning my groom , I bade him ride to Glenellyn with it .
His look of amazement almost made me laugh , but after he was gone I felt dizzy and frightened at my own daring .
When the autumn darkness came down I went to my room and dressed as the woman dresses who awaits the one man of all the world .
I hardly knew what I hoped or expected , but I was all athrill with a nameless , inexplicable happiness .
I admit I looked very eagerly into the mirror when I was done , and I thought that the result was not unpleasing .
Beauty had never been mine , but a faint reflection of it came over me in the tremulous flush and excitement of the moment .
Then the maid came up to tell me that Alan Fraser was in the library .
I went down with my cold hands tightly clasped behind me .
He was standing by the library table , a tall , broad-shouldered man , with the light striking upward on his dark , sensitive face and iron-grey hair .
When he saw me he came quickly forward .
`` So you know -- and you are not angry -- your letters told me so much .
I have loved you since that day in the beech wood , Isobel -- Isobel . ''
His eyes were kindling into mine .
He held my hands in a close , impetuous clasp .
His voice was infinitely caressing as he pronounced my name .
I had never heard it since Father died -- I had never heard it at all so musically and tenderly uttered .
My ancestors might have turned in their graves just then -- but it mattered not .
Living love had driven out dead hatred .
`` Isobel , '' he went on , `` there was one letter unanswered -- the last . ''
I went to my desk , took out the last letter I had written and gave it to him in silence .
While he read it I stood in a shadowy corner and watched him , wondering if life could always be as sweet as this .
When he had finished he turned to me and held out his arms .
I went to them as a bird to her nest , and with his lips against mine the old feud was blotted out forever .
The Life-Book of Uncle Jesse Uncle Jesse !
The name calls up the vision of him as I saw him so often in those two enchanted summers at Golden Gate ; as I saw him the first time , when he stood in the open doorway of the little low-eaved cottage on the harbour shore , welcoming us to our new domicile with the gentle , unconscious courtesy that became him so well .
A tall , ungainly figure , somewhat stooped , yet suggestive of great strength and endurance ; a clean-shaven old face deeply lined and bronzed ; a thick mane of iron-grey hair falling quite to his shoulders ; and a pair of remarkably blue , deep-set eyes , which sometimes twinkled and sometimes dreamed , but oftener looked out seaward with a wistful question in them , as of one seeking something precious and lost .
I was to learn one day what it was for which Uncle Jesse looked .
It can not be denied that Uncle Jesse was a homely man .
His spare jaws , rugged mouth , and square brow were not fashioned on the lines of beauty , but though at first sight you thought him plain you never thought anything more about it -- the spirit shining through that rugged tenement beautified it so wholly .
Uncle Jesse was quite keenly aware of his lack of outward comeliness and lamented it , for he was a passionate worshipper of beauty in everything .
He told Mother once that he 'd rather like to be made over again and made handsome .
`` Folks say I 'm good , '' he remarked whimsically , `` but I sometimes wish the Lord had made me only half as good and put the rest of it into looks .
But I reckon He knew what He was about , as a good Captain should .
Some of us have to be homely or the purty ones -- like Miss Mary there -- would n't show up so well . ''
I was not in the least pretty but Uncle Jesse was always telling me I was -- and I loved him for it .
He told the fib so prettily and sincerely that he almost made me believe it for the time being , and I really think he believed it himself .
All women were lovely and of good report in his eyes , because of one he had loved .
The only time I ever saw Uncle Jesse really angered was when someone in his hearing cast an aspersion on the character of a shore girl .
The wretched man who did it fairly cringed when Uncle Jesse turned on him with lightning of eye and thundercloud of brow .
At that moment I no longer found it hard to reconcile Uncle Jesse 's simple , kindly personality with the wild , adventurous life he had lived .
We went to Golden Gate in the spring .
Mother 's health had not been good and her doctor recommended sea air and quiet .
Uncle James , when he heard it , proposed that we take possession of a small cottage at Golden Gate , to which he had recently fallen heir by the death of an old aunt who had lived in it .
`` I have n't been up to see it , '' he said , `` but it is just as Aunt Elizabeth left it and she was the pink of neatness .
The key is in the possession of an old sailor living nearby -- Jesse Boyd is the name , I think .
I imagine you can be very comfortable in it .
It is built right on the harbour shore , inside the bar , and it is within five minutes ' walk of the outside shore . ''
Uncle James 's offer fitted in very opportunely with our limp family purse , and we straightway betook ourselves to Golden Gate .
We telegraphed to Jesse Boyd to have the house opened for us and , one crisp spring day , when a rollicking wind was scudding over the harbour and the dunes , whipping the water into white caps and washing the sandshore with long lines of silvery breakers , we alighted at the little station and walked the half mile to our new home , leaving our goods and chattels to be carted over in the evening by an obliging station agent 's boy .
* * * * * Our first glimpse of Aunt Elizabeth 's cottage was a delight to soul and sense ; it looked so like a big grey seashell stranded on the shore .
Between it and the harbour was only a narrow strip of shingle , and behind it was a gnarled and battered fir wood where the winds were in the habit of harping all sorts of weird and haunting music .
Inside , it was to prove even yet more quaint and delightful , with its low , dark-beamed ceilings and square , deep-set windows by which , whether open or shut , sea breezes entered at their own sweet will .
The view from our door was magnificent , taking in the big harbour and sweeps of purple hills beyond .
The entrance of the harbour gave it its name -- a deep , narrow channel between the bar of sand dunes on the one side and a steep , high , frowning red sandstone cliff on the other .
We appreciated its significance the first time we saw a splendid golden sunrise flooding it , coming out of the wonderful sea and sky beyond and billowing through that narrow passage in waves of light .
Truly , it was a golden gate through which one might sail to `` faerie lands forlorn . ''
As we went along the path to our little house we were agreeably surprised to see a blue spiral of smoke curling up from its big , square chimney , and the next moment Uncle Jesse -LRB- we were calling him Uncle Jesse half an hour after we met him , so it seems scarcely worthwhile to begin with anything else -RRB- came to the door .
`` Welcome , ladies , '' he said , holding out a big , hard , but scrupulously clean hand .
`` I thought you 'd be feeling a bit tired and hungry , maybe , so when I came over to open up I put on a fire and brewed you up a cup of tea .
I just delight in being neighbourly and ` tai n't often I have the chance . ''
We found that Uncle Jesse 's `` cup of tea '' meant a veritable spread .
He had aired the little dining room , set out the table daintily with Aunt Elizabeth 's china and linen -- `` knowed jest where to put my hands on 'em -- often and often helped old Miss Kennedy wash 'em .
We were cronies , her and me .
I miss her terrible '' -- and adorned it with mayflowers which , as we afterwards discovered , he had tramped several miles to gather .
There was good bread and butter , `` store '' biscuits , a dish of tea fit for the gods on high Olympus , and a platter of the most delicious sea trout , done to a turn .
`` Thought they 'd be tasty after travelling , '' said Uncle Jesse .
`` They 're fresh as trout can be , ma'am .
Two hours ago they was swimming in Johnson 's pond yander .
I caught 'em -- yes , ma'am .
It 's about all I 'm good for now , catching trout and cod occasional .
But ` twere n't always so -- not by no manner of means .
I used to do other things , as you 'd admit if you saw my life-book . ''
I was so hungry and tired that I did not then `` rise to the bait '' of Uncle Jesse 's `` life-book . ''
I simply wanted to begin on those trout .
Mother insisted that Uncle Jesse sit down and help us eat the repast he had prepared , and he assented without undue coaxing .
`` Thank ye kindly .
` Twill be a real treat .
I mostly has to eat my meals alone , with the reflection of my ugly old phiz in a looking glass opposite for company .
'T is n't often I have the chance to sit down with two such sweet purty ladies . ''
Uncle Jesse 's compliments look bald enough on paper , but he paid them with such gracious , gentle deference of tone and look that the woman who received them felt that she was being offered a queen 's gift in kingly fashion .
He broke bread with us and from that moment we were all friends together and forever .
After we had eaten all we could , we sat at our table for an hour and listened to Uncle Jesse telling us stories of his life .
`` If I talk too much you must jest check me , '' he said seriously , but with a twinkle in his eyes .
`` When I do get a chance to talk to anyone I 'm apt to run on terrible . ''
He had been a sailor from the time he was ten years old , and some of his adventures had such a marvellous edge that I secretly wondered if Uncle Jesse were not drawing a rather long bow at our credulous expense .
But in this , as I found later , I did him injustice .
His tales were all literally true , and Uncle Jesse had the gift of the born story-teller , whereby `` unhappy , far-off things '' can be brought vividly before the hearer and made to live again in all their pristine poignancy .
Mother and I laughed and shivered over Uncle Jesse 's tales , and once we found ourselves crying .
Uncle Jesse surveyed our tears with pleasure shining out through his face like an illuminating lamp .
`` I like to make folks cry that way , '' he remarked .
`` It 's a compliment .
But I ca n't do justice to the things I 've seen and helped do .
I 've got 'em all jotted down in my life-book but I have n't got the knack of writing them out properly .
If I had , I could make a great book , if I had the knack of hitting on just the right words and stringing everything together proper on paper .
But I ca n't .
It 's in this poor human critter , '' Uncle Jesse patted his breast sorrowfully , `` but he ca n't get it out . ''
When Uncle Jesse went home that evening Mother asked him to come often to see us .
`` I wonder if you 'd give that invitation if you knew how likely I 'd be to accept it , '' he remarked whimsically .
`` Which is another way of saying you wonder if I meant it , '' smiled Mother .
`` I do , most heartily and sincerely . ''
`` Then I 'll come .
You 'll likely be pestered with me at any hour .
And I 'd be proud to have you drop over to visit me now and then too .
I live on that point yander .
Neither me nor my house is worth coming to see .
It 's only got one room and a loft and a stovepipe sticking out of the roof for a chimney .
But I 've got a few little things lying around that I picked up in the queer corners I used to be poking my nose into .
Mebbe they 'd interest you . ''
Uncle Jesse 's `` few little things '' turned out to be the most interesting collection of curios I had ever seen .
His one neat little living room was full of them -- beautiful , hideous or quaint as the case might be , and almost all having some weird or exciting story attached .
Mother and I had a beautiful summer at Golden Gate .
We lived the life of two children with Uncle Jesse as a playmate .
Our housekeeping was of the simplest description and we spent our hours rambling along the shores , reading on the rocks or sailing over the harbour in Uncle Jesse 's trim little boat .
Every day we loved the simple-souled , true , manly old sailor more and more .
He was as refreshing as a sea breeze , as interesting as some ancient chronicle .
We never tired of listening to his stories , and his quaint remarks and comments were a continual delight to us .
Uncle Jesse was one of those interesting and rare people who , in the picturesque phraseology of the shore folks , `` never speak but they say something . ''
The milk of human kindness and the wisdom of the serpent were mingled in Uncle Jesse 's composition in delightful proportions .
One day he was absent all day and returned at nightfall .
`` Took a tramp back yander . ''
`` Back yander '' with Uncle Jesse might mean the station hamlet or the city a hundred miles away or any place between -- `` to carry Mr. Kimball a mess of trout .
He likes one occasional and it 's all I can do for a kindness he did me once .
I stayed all day to talk to him .
He likes to talk to me , though he 's an eddicated man , because he 's one of the folks that 's got to talk or they 're miserable , and he finds listeners scarce ` round here .
The folks fight shy of him because they think he 's an infidel .
He ai n't that far gone exactly -- few men is , I reckon -- but he 's what you might call a heretic .
Heretics are wicked but they 're mighty interesting .
It 's just that they 've got sorter lost looking for God , being under the impression that He 's hard to find -- which He ai n't , never .
Most of 'em blunder to Him after a while I guess .
I do n't think listening to Mr. Kimball 's arguments is likely to do me much harm .
Mind you , I believe what I was brought up to believe .
It saves a vast of trouble -- and back of it all , God is good .
The trouble with Mr. Kimball is , he 's a leetle too clever .
He thinks he 's bound to live up to his cleverness and that it 's smarter to thrash out some new way of getting to heaven than to go by the old track the common , ignorant folks is travelling .
But he 'll get there sometime all right and then he 'll laugh at himself . ''
* * * * * Nothing ever seemed to put Uncle Jesse out or depress him in any way .
`` I 've kind of contracted a habit of enjoying things , '' he remarked once , when Mother had commented on his invariable cheerfulness .
`` It 's got so chronic that I believe I even enjoy the disagreeable things .
It 's great fun thinking they ca n't last .
` Old rheumatiz , ' I says , when it grips me hard , ` you 've got to stop aching sometime .
The worse you are the sooner you 'll stop , perhaps .
I 'm bound to get the better of you in the long run , whether in the body or out of the body . ' ''
Uncle Jesse seldom came to our house without bringing us something , even if it were only a bunch of sweet grass .
`` I favour the smell of sweet grass , '' he said .
`` It always makes me think of my mother . ''
`` She was fond of it ? ''
`` Not that I knows on .
Dunno 's she ever saw any sweet grass .
No , it 's because it has a kind of motherly perfume -- not too young , you understand -- something kind of seasoned and wholesome and dependable -- just like a mother . ''
Uncle Jesse was a very early riser .
He seldom missed a sunrise .
`` I 've seen all kinds of sunrises come in through that there Gate , '' he said dreamily one morning when I myself had made a heroic effort at early rising and joined him on the rocks halfway between his house and ours .
`` I 've been all over the world and , take it all in all , I 've never seen a finer sight than a summer sunrise out there beyant the Gate .
A man ca n't pick his time for dying , Mary -- jest got to go when the Captain gives his sailing orders .
But if I could I 'd go out when the morning comes in there at the Gate .
I 've watched it a many times and thought what a thing it would be to pass out through that great white glory to whatever was waiting beyant , on a sea that ai n't mapped out on any airthly chart .
I think , Mary , I 'd find lost Margaret there . ''
He had already told me the story of `` lost Margaret , '' as he always called her .
He rarely spoke of her , but when he did his love for her trembled in every tone -- a love that had never grown faint or forgetful .
Uncle Jesse was seventy ; it was fifty years since lost Margaret had fallen asleep one day in her father 's dory and drifted -- as was supposed , for nothing was ever known certainly of her fate -- across the harbour and out of the Gate , to perish in the black thunder squall that had come up suddenly that long-ago afternoon .
But to Uncle Jesse those fifty years were but as yesterday when it is past .
`` I walked the shore for months after that , '' he said sadly , `` looking to find her dear , sweet little body , but the sea never gave her back to me .
But I 'll find her sometime .
I wisht I could tell you just how she looked but I ca n't .
I 've seen a fine silvery mist hanging over the Gate at sunrise that seemed like her -- and then again I 've seen a white birch in the woods back yander that made me think of her .
She had pale brown hair and a little white face , and long slender fingers like yours , Mary , only browner , for she was a shore girl .
Sometimes I wake up in the night and hear the sea calling to me in the old way and it seems as if lost Margaret called in it .
And when there 's a storm and the waves are sobbing and moaning I hear her lamenting among them .
And when they laugh on a gay day it 's her laugh -- lost Margaret 's sweet little laugh .
The sea took her from me but some day I 'll find her , Mary .
It ca n't keep us apart forever . ''
I had not been long at Golden Gate before I saw Uncle Jesse 's `` life-book , '' as he quaintly called it .
He needed no coaxing to show it and he proudly gave it to me to read .
It was an old leather-bound book filled with the record of his voyages and adventures .
I thought what a veritable treasure trove it would be to a writer .
Every sentence was a nugget .
In itself the book had no literary merit ; Uncle Jesse 's charm of story-telling failed him when he came to pen and ink ; he could only jot down roughly the outlines of his famous tales , and both spelling and grammar were sadly askew .
But I felt that if anyone possessing the gift could take that simple record of a brave , adventurous life , reading between the bald lines the tale of dangers staunchly faced and duties manfully done , a wonderful story might be made from it .
Pure comedy and thrilling tragedy were both lying hidden in Uncle Jesse 's `` life-book , '' waiting for the touch of the magician 's hand to waken the laughter and grief and horror of thousands .
I thought of my cousin , Robert Kennedy , who juggled with words in a masterly fashion , but complained that he found it hard to create incidents or characters .
Here were both ready to his hand , but Robert was in Japan in the interests of his paper .
In the fall , when the harbour lay black and sullen under November skies , Mother and I went back to town , parting with Uncle Jesse regretfully .
We wanted him to visit us in town during the winter but he shook his head .
`` It 's too far away , Mary .
If lost Margaret called me I might n't hear her there .
I must be here when my time comes .
It ca n't be very far off now . ''
I wrote often to Uncle Jesse through the winter and sent him books and magazines .
He enjoyed them but he thought -- and truly enough -- that none of them came up to his life-book for real interest .
`` If my life-book could be took and writ by someone that knowed how , it would beat them holler , '' he wrote in one of his few letters to me .
In the spring we returned joyfully to Golden Gate .
It was as golden as ever and the harbour as blue ; the winds still rollicked as gaily and sweetly and the breakers boomed outside the bar as of yore .
All was unchanged save Uncle Jesse .
He had aged greatly and seemed frail and bent .
After he had gone home from his first call on us , Mother cried .
`` Uncle Jesse will soon be going to seek lost Margaret , '' she said .
In June Robert came .
I took him promptly over to see Uncle Jesse , who was very much excited when he found that Robert was a `` real writing man . ''
`` Robert wants to hear some of your stories , Uncle Jesse , '' I said .
`` Tell him the one about the captain who went crazy and imagined he was the Flying Dutchman . ''
This was Uncle Jesse 's best story .
It was a compound of humour and horror , and though I had heard it several times , I laughed as heartily and shivered as fearsomely over it as Robert did .
Other tales followed ; Uncle Jesse told how his vessel had been run down by a steamer , how he had been boarded by Malay pirates , how his ship had caught fire , how he had helped a political prisoner escape from a South American republic .
He never said a boastful word , but it was impossible to help seeing what a hero the man had been -- brave , true , resourceful , unselfish , skilful .
He sat there in his poor little room and made those things live again for us .
By a lift of the eyebrow , a twist of the lip , a gesture , a word , he painted some whole scene or character so that we saw it as it was .
Finally , he lent Robert his life-book .
Robert sat up all night reading it and came to the breakfast table in great excitement .
`` Mary , this is a wonderful book .
If I could take it and garb it properly -- work it up into a systematic whole and string it on the thread of Uncle Jesse 's romance of lost Margaret , it would be the novel of the year .
Do you suppose he would let me do it ? ''
`` Let you !
I think he would be delighted , '' I answered .
And he was .
He was as excited as a schoolboy over it .
At last his cherished dream was to be realized and his life-book given to the world .
`` We 'll collaborate , '' said Robert .
`` You will give the soul and I the body .
Oh , we 'll write a famous book between us , Uncle Jesse .
And we 'll get right to work . ''
Uncle Jesse was a happy man that summer .
He looked upon the little back room we gave up to Robert for a study as a sacred shrine .
Robert talked everything over with Uncle Jesse but would not let him see the manuscript .
`` You must wait till it is published , '' he said .
`` Then you 'll get it all at once in its best shape . ''
Robert delved into the treasures of the life-book and used them freely .
He dreamed and brooded over lost Margaret until she became a vivid reality to him and lived in his pages .
As the book progressed it took possession of him and he worked at it with feverish eagerness .
He let me read the manuscript and criticize it ; and the concluding chapter of the book , which the critics later on were pleased to call idyllic , was modelled after my suggestions , so that I felt as if I had a share in it too .
It was autumn when the book was finished .
Robert went back to town , but Mother and I decided to stay at Golden Gate all winter .
We loved the spot and , besides , I wished to remain for Uncle Jesse 's sake .
He was failing all the time , and after Robert went and the excitement of the book-making was past , he failed still more rapidly .
His tramping expeditions were over and he seldom went out in his boat .
Neither did he talk a great deal .
He liked to come over and sit silently for hours at our seaward window , looking out wistfully toward the Gate with his swiftly whitening head leaning on his hand .
The only keen interest he still had was in Robert 's book .
He waited and watched impatiently for its publication .
`` I want to live till I see it , '' he said , `` just that long -- then I 'll be ready to go .
He said it would be out in the spring -- I must hang on till it comes , Mary . ''
There were times when I doubted sadly if he would `` hang on . ''
As the winter wore away he grew frailer and frailer .
But ever he looked forward to the coming of spring and `` the book , '' his book , transformed and glorified .
One day in young April the book came at last .
Uncle Jesse had gone to the post office faithfully every day for a month , expecting it , but this day he was too feeble to go and I went for him .
The book was there .
It was called simply , The Life-Book of Jesse Boyd , and on the title page the names of Robert Kennedy and Jesse Boyd were printed as collaborators .
I shall never forget Uncle Jesse 's face as I handed it to him .
I came away and left him reading it , oblivious to all else .
All night the light burned in his window , and I looked out across the sands to it and pictured the delight of the old man poring over the printed pages whereon his own life was portrayed .
I wondered how he would like the ending -- the ending I had suggested .
I was never to know .
After breakfast I went over to Uncle Jesse 's house , taking some little delicacy Mother had cooked for him .
It was an exquisite morning , full of delicate spring tints and sounds .
The harbour was sparkling and dimpling like a girl , the winds were playing hide and seek roguishly among the stunted firs , and the silver-flashing gulls were soaring over the bar .
Beyond the Gate was a shining , wonderful sea .
When I reached the little house on the point I saw the lamp still burning wanly in the window .
A quick alarm struck at my heart .
Without waiting to knock , I lifted the latch , and entered .
Uncle Jesse was lying on the old sofa by the window , with the book clasped to his heart .
His eyes were closed and on his face was a look of the most perfect peace and happiness -- the look of one who has long sought and found at last .
We could not know at what hour he had died , but somehow I think he had his wish and went out when the morning came in through the Golden Gate .
Out on that shining tide his spirit drifted , over the sunrise sea of pearl and silver , to the haven where lost Margaret waited beyond the storms and calms .
The Little Black Doll Everybody in the Marshall household was excited on the evening of the concert at the Harbour Light Hotel -- everybody , even to Little Joyce , who could n't go to the concert because there was n't anybody else to stay with Denise .
Perhaps Denise was the most excited of them all -- Denise , who was slowly dying of consumption in the Marshall kitchen chamber because there was no other place in the world for her to die in , or anybody to trouble about her .
Mrs. Roderick Marshall thought it very good of herself to do so much for Denise .
To be sure , Denise was not much bother , and Little Joyce did most of the waiting on her .
At the tea table nothing was talked of but the concert ; for was not Madame Laurin , the great French Canadian prima donna , at the hotel , and was she not going to sing ?
It was the opportunity of a lifetime -- the Marshalls would not have missed it for anything .
Stately , handsome old Grandmother Marshall was going , and Uncle Roderick and Aunt Isabella , and of course Chrissie , who was always taken everywhere because she was pretty and graceful , and everything that Little Joyce was not .
Little Joyce would have liked to go to the concert , for she was very fond of music ; and , besides , she wanted to be able to tell Denise all about it .
But when you are shy and homely and thin and awkward , your grandmother never takes you anywhere .
At least , such was Little Joyce 's belief .
Little Joyce knew quite well that Grandmother Marshall did not like her .
She thought it was because she was so plain and awkward -- and in part it was .
Grandmother Marshall cared very little for granddaughters who did not do her credit .
But Little Joyce 's mother had married a poor man in the face of her family 's disapproval , and then both she and her husband had been inconsiderate enough to die and leave a small orphan without a penny to support her .
Grandmother Marshall fed and clothed the child , but who could make anything of such a shy creature with no gifts or graces whatever ?
Grandmother Marshall had no intention of trying .
Chrissie , the golden-haired and pink-cheeked , was Grandmother Marshall 's pet .
Little Joyce knew this .
She did not envy Chrissie but , oh , how she wished Grandmother Marshall would love her a little , too !
Nobody loved her but Denise and the little black doll .
And Little Joyce was beginning to understand that Denise would not be in the kitchen chamber very much longer , and the little black doll could n't tell you she loved you -- although she did , of course .
Little Joyce had no doubt at all on this point .
Little Joyce sighed so deeply over this thought that Uncle Roderick smiled at her .
Uncle Roderick did smile at her sometimes .
`` What is the matter , Little Joyce ? ''
he asked .
`` I was thinking about my black doll , '' said Little Joyce timidly .
`` Ah , your black doll .
If Madame Laurin were to see it , she 'd likely want it .
She makes a hobby of collecting dolls all over the world , but I doubt if she has in her collection a doll that served to amuse a little girl four thousand years ago in the court of the Pharaohs . ''
`` I think Joyce 's black doll is very ugly , '' said Chrissie .
`` My wax doll with the yellow hair is ever so much prettier . ''
`` My black doll is n't ugly , '' cried Little Joyce indignantly .
She could endure to be called ugly herself , but she could not bear to have her darling black doll called ugly .
In her excitement she upset her cup of tea over the tablecloth .
Aunt Isabella looked angry , and Grandmother Marshall said sharply : `` Joyce , leave the table .
You grow more awkward and careless every day . ''
Little Joyce , on the verge of tears , crept away and went up the kitchen stairs to Denise to be comforted .
But Denise herself had been crying .
She lay on her little bed by the low window , where the glow of the sunset was coming in ; her hollow cheeks were scarlet with fever .
`` Oh !
I want so much to hear Madame Laurin sing , '' she sobbed .
`` I feel lak I could die easier if I hear her sing just one leetle song .
She is Frenchwoman , too , and she sing all de ole French songs -- de ole songs my mudder sing long ` go .
Oh !
I so want to hear Madame Laurin sing . ''
`` But you ca n't , dear Denise , '' said Little Joyce very softly , stroking Denise 's hot forehead with her cool , slender hand .
Little Joyce had very pretty hands , only nobody had ever noticed them .
`` You are not strong enough to go to the concert .
I 'll sing for you , if you like .
Of course , I ca n't sing very well , but I 'll do my best . ''
`` You sing lak a sweet bird , but you are not Madame Laurin , '' said Denise restlessly .
`` It is de great Madame I want to hear .
I haf not long to live .
Oh , I know , Leetle Joyce -- I know what de doctor look lak -- and I want to hear Madame Laurin sing ` fore I die .
I know it is impossible -- but I long for it so -- just one leetle song . ''
Denise put her thin hands over her face and sobbed again .
Little Joyce went and sat down by the window , looking out into the white birches .
Her heart ached bitterly .
Dear Denise was going to die soon -- oh , very soon !
Little Joyce , wise and knowing beyond her years , saw that .
And Denise wanted to hear Madame Laurin sing .
It seemed a foolish thing to think of , but Little Joyce thought hard about it ; and when she had finished thinking , she got her little black doll and took it to bed with her , and there she cried herself to sleep .
At the breakfast table next morning the Marshalls talked about the concert and the wonderful Madame Laurin .
Little Joyce listened in her usual silence ; her crying the night before had not improved her looks any .
Never , thought handsome Grandmother Marshall , had she appeared so sallow and homely .
Really , Grandmother Marshall could not have the patience to look at her .
She decided that she would not take Joyce driving with her and Chrissie that afternoon , as she had thought of , after all .
In the forenoon it was discovered that Denise was much worse , and the doctor was sent for .
He came , and shook his head , that being really all he could do under the circumstances .
When he went away , he was waylaid at the back door by a small gypsy with big , black , serious eyes and long black hair .
`` Is Denise going to die ? ''
Little Joyce asked in the blunt , straightforward fashion Grandmother Marshall found so trying .
The doctor looked at her from under his shaggy brows and decided that here was one of the people to whom you might as well tell the truth first as last , because they are bound to have it .
`` Yes , '' he said .
`` Soon ? ''
`` Very soon , I 'm afraid .
In a few days at most . ''
`` Thank you , '' said Little Joyce gravely .
She went to her room and did something with the black doll .
She did not cry , but if you could have seen her face you would have wished she would cry .
After dinner Grandmother Marshall and Chrissie drove away , and Uncle Roderick and Aunt Isabella went away , too .
Little Joyce crept up to the kitchen chamber .
Denise was lying in an uneasy sleep , with tear stains on her face .
Then Little Joyce tiptoed down and sped away to the hotel .
She did not know just what she would say or do when she got there , but she thought hard all the way to the end of the shore road .
When she came out to the shore , a lady was sitting alone on a big rock -- a lady with a dark , beautiful face and wonderful eyes .
Little Joyce stopped before her and looked at her meditatively .
Perhaps it would be well to ask advice of this lady .
`` If you please , '' said Little Joyce , who was never shy with strangers , for whose opinion she did n't care at all , `` I want to see Madame Laurin at the hotel and ask her to do me a very great favour .
Will you tell me the best way to go about seeing her ?
I shall be much obliged to you . ''
`` What is the favour you want to ask of Madame Laurin ? ''
inquired the lady , smiling .
`` I want to ask her if she will come and sing for Denise before she dies -- before Denise dies , I mean .
Denise is our French girl , and the doctor says she can not live very long , and she wishes with all her heart to hear Madame Laurin sing .
It is very bitter , you know , to be dying and want something very much and not be able to get it . ''
`` Do you think Madame Laurin will go ? ''
asked the lady .
`` I do n't know .
I am going to offer her my little black doll .
If she will not come for that , there is nothing else I can do . ''
A flash of interest lighted up the lady 's brown eyes .
She bent forward .
`` Is it your doll you have in that box ?
Will you let me see it ? ''
Little Joyce nodded .
Mutely she opened the box and took out the black doll .
The lady gave an exclamation of amazed delight and almost snatched it from Little Joyce .
It was a very peculiar little doll indeed , carved out of some black polished wood .
`` Child , where in the world did you get this ? ''
she cried .
`` Father got it out of a grave in Egypt , '' said Little Joyce .
`` It was buried with the mummy of a little girl who lived four thousand years ago , Uncle Roderick says .
She must have loved her doll very much to have had it buried with her , must n't she ?
But she could not have loved it any more than I do . ''
`` And yet you are going to give it away ? ''
said the lady , looking at her keenly .
`` For Denise 's sake , '' explained Little Joyce .
`` I would do anything for Denise because I love her and she loves me .
When the only person in the world who loves you is going to die , there is nothing you would not do for her if you could .
Denise was so good to me before she took sick .
She used to kiss me and play with me and make little cakes for me and tell me beautiful stories . ''
The lady put the little black doll back in the box .
Then she stood up and held out her hand .
`` Come , '' she said .
`` I am Madame Laurin , and I shall go and sing for Denise . ''
Little Joyce piloted Madame Laurin home and into the kitchen and up the back stairs to the kitchen chamber -- a proceeding which would have filled Aunt Isabella with horror if she had known .
But Madame Laurin did not seem to mind , and Little Joyce never thought about it at all .
It was Little Joyce 's awkward , unMarshall-like fashion to go to a place by the shortest way there , even if it was up the kitchen stairs .
Madame Laurin stood in the bare little room and looked pityingly at the wasted , wistful face on the pillow .
`` This is Madame Laurin , and she is going to sing for you , Denise , '' whispered Little Joyce .
Denise 's face lighted up , and she clasped her hands .
`` If you please , '' she said faintly .
`` A French song , Madame -- de ole French song dey sing long ` go . ''
Then did Madame Laurin sing .
Never had that kitchen chamber been so filled with glorious melody .
Song after song she sang -- the old folklore songs of the habitant , the songs perhaps that Evangeline listened to in her childhood .
Little Joyce knelt by the bed , her eyes on the singer like one entranced .
Denise lay with her face full of joy and rapture -- such joy and rapture !
Little Joyce did not regret the sacrifice of her black doll -- never could regret it , as long as she remembered Denise 's look .
`` T'ank you , Madame , '' said Denise brokenly , when Madame ceased .
`` Dat was so beautiful -- de angel , dey can not sing more sweet .
I love music so much , Madame .
Leetle Joyce , she sing to me often and often -- she sing sweet , but not lak you -- oh , not lak you . ''
`` Little Joyce must sing for me , '' said Madame , smiling , as she sat down by the window .
`` I always like to hear fresh , childish voices .
Will you , Little Joyce ? ''
`` Oh , yes . ''
Little Joyce was quite unembarrassed and perfectly willing to do anything she could for this wonderful woman who had brought that look to Denise 's face .
`` I will sing as well as I can for you .
Of course , I ca n't sing very well and I do n't know anything but hymns .
I always sing hymns for Denise , although she is a Catholic and the hymns are Protestant .
But her priest told her it was all right , because all music was of God .
Denise 's priest is a very nice man , and I like him .
He thought my little black doll -- your little black doll -- was splendid .
I 'll sing ` Lead , Kindly Light . '
That is Denise 's favourite hymn . ''
Then Little Joyce , slipping her hand into Denise 's , began to sing .
At the first note Madame Laurin , who had been gazing out of the window with a rather listless smile , turned quickly and looked at Little Joyce with amazed eyes .
Delight followed amazement , and when Little Joyce had finished , the great Madame rose impulsively , her face and eyes glowing , stepped swiftly to Little Joyce and took the thin dark face between her gemmed hands .
`` Child , do you know what a wonderful voice you have -- what a marvellous voice ?
It is -- it is -- I never heard such a voice in a child of your age .
Mine was nothing to it -- nothing at all .
You will be a great singer some day -- far greater than I -- yes .
But you must have the training .
Where are your parents ?
I must see them . ''
`` I have no parents , '' said the bewildered Little Joyce .
`` I belong to Grandmother Marshall , and she is out driving . ''
`` Then I shall wait until your Grandmother Marshall comes home from her drive , '' said Madame Laurin decidedly .
Half an hour later a very much surprised old lady was listening to Madame Laurin 's enthusiastic statements .
`` How is it I have never heard you sing , if you can sing so well ? ''
asked Grandmother Marshall , looking at Little Joyce with something in her eyes that had never been in them before -- as Little Joyce instantly felt to the core of her sensitive soul .
But Little Joyce hung her head .
It had never occurred to her to sing in Grandmother Marshall 's presence .
`` This child must be trained by-and-by , '' said Madame Laurin .
`` If you can not afford it , Mrs. Marshall , I will see to it .
Such a voice must not be wasted . ''
`` Thank you , Madame Laurin , '' said Grandmother Marshall with a gracious dignity , `` but I am quite able to give my granddaughter all the necessary advantages for the development of her gift .
And I thank you very much for telling me of it . ''
Madame Laurin bent and kissed Little Joyce 's brown cheek .
`` Little gypsy , good-by .
But come every day to this hotel to see me .
And next summer I shall be back .
I like you -- because some day you will be a great singer and because today you are a loving , unselfish baby . ''
`` You have forgotten the little black doll , Madame , '' said Little Joyce gravely .
Madame threw up her hands , laughing .
`` No , no , I shall not take your little black doll of the four thousand years .
Keep it for a mascot .
A great singer always needs a mascot .
But do not , I command you , take it out of the box till I am gone , for if I were to see it again , I might not be able to resist the temptation .
Some day I shall show you my dolls , but there is not such a gem among them . ''
When Madame Laurin had gone , Grandmother Marshall looked at Little Joyce .
`` Come to my room , Joyce .
I want to see if we can not find a more becoming way of arranging your hair .
It has grown so thick and long .
I had no idea how thick and long .
Yes , we must certainly find a better way than that stiff braid .
Come ! ''
Little Joyce , taking Grandmother Marshall 's extended hand , felt very happy .
She realized that this strange , stately old lady , who never liked little girls unless they were pretty or graceful or clever , was beginning to love her at last .
The Man on the Train When the telegram came from William George , Grandma Sheldon was all alone with Cyrus and Louise .
And Cyrus and Louise , aged respectively twelve and eleven , were not very much good , Grandma thought , when it came to advising what was to be done .
Grandma was `` all in a flutter , dear , oh dear , '' as she said .
The telegram said that Delia , William George 's wife , was seriously ill down at Green Village , and William George wanted Samuel to bring Grandma down immediately .
Delia had always thought there was nobody like Grandma when it came to nursing sick folks .
But Samuel and his wife were both away -- had been away for two days and intended to be away for five more .
They had driven to Sinclair , twenty miles away , to visit with Mrs. Samuel 's folks for a week .
`` Dear , oh dear , what shall I do ? ''
said Grandma .
`` Go right to Green Village on the evening train , '' said Cyrus briskly .
`` Dear , oh dear , and leave you two alone ! ''
cried Grandma .
`` Louise and I will do very well until tomorrow , '' said Cyrus sturdily .
`` We will send word to Sinclair by today 's mail , and Father and Mother will be home by tomorrow night . ''
`` But I never was on the cars in my life , '' protested Grandma nervously .
`` I 'm -- I 'm so frightened to start alone .
And you never know what kind of people you may meet on the train . ''
`` You 'll be all right , Grandma .
I 'll drive you to the station , get you your ticket , and put you on the train .
Then you 'll have nothing to do until the train gets to Green Village .
I 'll send a telegram to Uncle William George to meet you . ''
`` I shall fall and break my neck getting off the train , '' said Grandma pessimistically .
But she was wondering at the same time whether she had better take the black valise or the yellow , and whether William George would be likely to have plenty of flaxseed in the house .
It was six miles to the station , and Cyrus drove Grandma over in time to catch a train that reached Green Village at nine o'clock .
`` Dear , oh dear , '' said Grandma , `` what if William George 's folks ai n't there to meet me ?
It 's all very well , Cyrus , to say that they will be there , but you do n't know .
And it 's all very well to say not to be nervous because everything will be all right .
If you were seventy-five years old and had never set foot on the cars in your life you 'd be nervous too , and you ca n't be sure that everything will be all right .
You never know what sort of people you 'll meet on the train .
I may get on the wrong train or lose my ticket or get carried past Green Village or get my pocket picked .
Well , no , I wo n't do that , for not one cent will I carry with me .
You shall take back home all the money you do n't need to get my ticket .
Then I shall be easier in my mind .
Dear , oh dear , if it was n't that Delia is so seriously ill I would n't go one step . ''
`` Oh , you 'll be all right , Grandma , '' assured Cyrus .
He got Grandma 's ticket for her and Grandma tied it up in the corner of her handkerchief .
Then the train came in and Grandma , clinging closely to Cyrus , was put on it .
Cyrus found a comfortable seat for her and shook hands cheerily .
`` Good-bye , Grandma .
Do n't be frightened .
Here 's the Weekly Argus .
I got it at the store .
You may like to look over it . ''
Then Cyrus was gone , and in a minute the station house and platform began to glide away .
Dear , oh dear , what has happened to it ?
thought Grandma in dismay .
The next moment she exclaimed aloud , `` Why , it 's us that 's moving , not it ! ''
Some of the passengers smiled pleasantly at Grandma .
She was the variety of old lady at which people do smile pleasantly ; a grandma with round , pink cheeks , soft , brown eyes , and lovely snow-white curls is a nice person to look at wherever she is found .
After a while Grandma , to her amazement , discovered that she liked riding on the cars .
It was not at all the disagreeable experience she had expected it to be .
Why , she was just as comfortable as if she were in her own rocking chair at home !
And there was such a lot of people to look at , and many of the ladies had such beautiful dresses and hats .
After all , the people you met on a train , thought Grandma , are surprisingly like the people you meet off it .
If it had not been for wondering how she would get off at Green Village , Grandma would have enjoyed herself thoroughly .
Four or five stations farther on the train halted at a lonely-looking place consisting of the station house and a barn , surrounded by scrub woods and blueberry barrens .
One passenger got on and , finding only one vacant seat in the crowded car , sat right down beside Grandma Sheldon .
Grandma Sheldon held her breath while she looked him over .
Was he a pickpocket ?
He did n't appear like one , but you can never be sure of the people you meet on the train .
Grandma remembered with a sigh of thankfulness that she had no money .
Besides , he seemed really very respectable and harmless .
He was quietly dressed in a suit of dark-blue serge with a black overcoat .
He wore his hat well down on his forehead and was clean shaven .
His hair was very black , but his eyes were blue -- nice eyes , Grandma thought .
She always felt great confidence in a man who had bright , open , blue eyes .
Grandpa Sheldon , who had died so long ago , four years after their marriage , had had bright blue eyes .
To be sure , he had fair hair , reflected Grandma .
It 's real odd to see such black hair with such light blue eyes .
Well , he 's real nice looking , and I do n't believe there 's a mite of harm in him .
The early autumn night had now fallen and Grandma could not amuse herself by watching the scenery .
She bethought herself of the paper Cyrus had given her and took it out of her basket .
It was an old weekly a fortnight back .
On the first page was a long account of a murder case with scare heads , and into this Grandma plunged eagerly .
Sweet old Grandma Sheldon , who would not have harmed a fly and hated to see even a mousetrap set , simply revelled in the newspaper accounts of murders .
And the more shocking and cold-blooded they were , the more eagerly did Grandma read of them .
This murder story was particularly good from Grandma 's point of view ; it was full of `` thrills . ''
A man had been shot down , apparently in cold blood , and his supposed murderer was still at large and had eluded all the efforts of justice to capture him .
His name was Mark Hartwell , and he was described as a tall , fair man , with full auburn beard and curly , light hair .
`` What a shocking thing ! ''
said Grandma aloud .
Her companion looked at her with a kindly , amused smile .
`` What is it ? ''
he asked .
`` Why , this murder at Charlotteville , '' answered Grandma , forgetting , in her excitement , that it was not safe to talk to people you meet on the train .
`` It just makes my blood run cold to read about it .
And to think that the man who did it is still around the country somewhere -- plotting other murders , I have n't a doubt .
What is the good of the police ? ''
`` They 're dull fellows , '' agreed the dark man .
`` But I do n't envy that man his conscience , '' said Grandma solemnly -- and somewhat inconsistently , in view of her statement about the other murders that were being plotted .
`` What must a man feel like who has the blood of a fellow creature on his hands ?
Depend upon it , his punishment has begun already , caught or not . ''
`` That is true , '' said the dark man quietly .
`` Such a good-looking man too , '' said Grandma , looking wistfully at the murderer 's picture .
`` It does n't seem possible that he can have killed anybody .
But the paper says there is n't a doubt . ''
`` He is probably guilty , '' said the dark man , `` but nothing is known of his provocation .
The affair may not have been so cold-blooded as the accounts state .
Those newspaper fellows never err on the side of undercolouring . ''
`` I really think , '' said Grandma slowly , `` that I would like to see a murderer -- just one .
Whenever I say anything like that , Adelaide -- Adelaide is Samuel 's wife -- looks at me as if she thought there was something wrong about me .
And perhaps there is , but I do , all the same .
When I was a little girl , there was a man in our settlement who was suspected of poisoning his wife .
She died very suddenly .
I used to look at him with such interest .
But it was n't satisfactory , because you could never be sure whether he was really guilty or not .
I never could believe that he was , because he was such a nice man in some ways and so good and kind to children .
I do n't believe a man who was bad enough to poison his wife could have any good in him . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' agreed the dark man .
He had absent-mindedly folded up Grandma 's old copy of the Argus and put it in his pocket .
Grandma did not like to ask him for it , although she would have liked to see if there were any more murder stories in it .
Besides , just at that moment the conductor came around for tickets .
Grandma looked in the basket for her handkerchief .
It was not there .
She looked on the floor and on the seat and under the seat .
It was not there .
She stood up and shook herself -- still no handkerchief .
`` Dear , oh dear , '' exclaimed Grandma wildly , `` I 've lost my ticket -- I always knew I would -- I told Cyrus I would !
Oh , where can it be ? ''
The conductor scowled unsympathetically .
The dark man got up and helped Grandma search , but no ticket was to be found .
`` You 'll have to pay the money then , and something extra , '' said the conductor gruffly .
`` I ca n't -- I have n't a cent of money , '' wailed Grandma .
`` I gave it all to Cyrus because I was afraid my pocket would be picked .
Oh , what shall I do ? ''
`` Do n't worry .
I 'll make it all right , '' said the dark man .
He took out his pocketbook and handed the conductor a bill .
That functionary grumblingly made the change and marched onward , while Grandma , pale with excitement and relief , sank back into her seat .
`` I ca n't tell you how much I am obliged to you , sir , '' she said tremulously .
`` I do n't know what I should have done .
Would he have put me off right here in the snow ? ''
`` I hardly think he would have gone to such lengths , '' said the dark man with a smile .
`` But he 's a cranky , disobliging fellow enough -- I know him of old .
And you must not feel overly grateful to me .
I am glad of the opportunity to help you .
I had an old grandmother myself once , '' he added with a sigh .
`` You must give me your name and address , of course , '' said Grandma , `` and my son -- Samuel Sheldon of Midverne -- will see that the money is returned to you .
Well , this is a lesson to me !
I 'll never trust myself on a train again , and all I wish is that I was safely off this one .
This fuss has worked my nerves all up again . ''
`` Do n't worry , Grandma .
I 'll see you safely off the train when we get to Green Village . ''
`` Will you , though ?
Will you , now ? ''
said Grandma eagerly .
`` I 'll be real easy in my mind , then , '' she added with a returning smile .
`` I feel as if I could trust you for anything -- and I 'm a real suspicious person too . ''
They had a long talk after that -- or , rather , Grandma talked and the dark man listened and smiled .
She told him all about William George and Delia and their baby and about Samuel and Adelaide and Cyrus and Louise and the three cats and the parrot .
He seemed to enjoy her accounts of them too .
When they reached Green Village station he gathered up Grandma 's parcels and helped her tenderly off the train .
`` Anybody here to meet Mrs. Sheldon ? ''
he asked of the station master .
The latter shook his head .
`` Do n't think so .
Have n't seen anybody here to meet anybody tonight . ''
`` Dear , oh dear , '' said poor Grandma .
`` This is just what I expected .
They 've never got Cyrus 's telegram .
Well , I might have known it .
What shall I do ? ''
`` How far is it to your son 's ? ''
asked the dark man .
`` Only half a mile -- just over the hill there .
But I 'll never get there alone this dark night . ''
`` Of course not .
But I 'll go with you .
The road is good -- we 'll do finely . ''
`` But that train wo n't wait for you , '' gasped Grandma , half in protest .
`` It does n't matter .
The Starmont freight passes here in half an hour and I 'll go on her .
Come along , Grandma . ''
`` Oh , but you 're good , '' said Grandma .
`` Some woman is proud to have you for a son . ''
The man did not answer .
He had not answered any of the personal remarks Grandma had made to him in her conversation .
They were not long in reaching William George Sheldon 's house , for the village road was good and Grandma was smart on her feet .
She was welcomed with eagerness and surprise .
`` To think that there was no one to meet you ! ''
exclaimed William George .
`` But I never dreamed of your coming by train , knowing how you were set against it .
Telegram ?
No , I got no telegram .
S'pose Cyrus forgot to send it .
I 'm most heartily obliged to you , sir , for looking after my mother so kindly . ''
`` It was a pleasure , '' said the dark man courteously .
He had taken off his hat , and they saw a curious scar , shaped like a large , red butterfly , high up on his forehead under his hair .
`` I am delighted to have been of any assistance to her . ''
He would not wait for supper -- the next train would be in and he must not miss it .
`` There are people looking for me , '' he said with his curious smile .
`` They will be much disappointed if they do not find me . ''
He had gone , and the whistle of the Starmont freight had blown before Grandma remembered that he had not given her his name and address .
`` Dear , oh dear , how are we ever going to send that money to him ? ''
she exclaimed .
`` And he so nice and goodhearted ! ''
Grandma worried over this for a week in the intervals of looking after Delia .
One day William George came in with a large city daily in his hands .
He looked curiously at Grandma and then showed her the front-page picture of a man , clean-shaven , with an oddly shaped scar high up on his forehead .
`` Did you ever see that man , Mother ? ''
he asked .
`` Of course I did , '' said Grandma excitedly .
`` Why , it 's the man I met on the train .
Who is he ?
What is his name ?
Now , we 'll know where to send -- '' `` That is Mark Hartwell , who shot Amos Gray at Charlotteville three weeks ago , '' said William George quietly .
Grandma looked at him blankly for a moment .
`` It could n't be , '' she gasped at last .
`` That man a murderer !
I 'll never believe it ! ''
`` It 's true enough , Mother .
The whole story is here .
He had shaved his beard and dyed his hair and came near getting clear out of the country .
They were on his trail the day he came down in the train with you and lost it because of his getting off to bring you here .
His disguise was so perfect that there was little fear of his being recognized so long as he hid that scar .
But it was seen in Montreal and he was run to earth there .
He has made a full confession . ''
`` I do n't care , '' cried Grandma valiantly .
`` I 'll never believe he was all bad -- a man who would do what he did for a poor old woman like me , when he was flying for his life too .
No , no , there was good in him even if he did kill that man .
And I 'm sure he must feel terrible over it . ''
In this view Grandma persisted .
She never would say or listen to a word against Mark Hartwell , and she had only pity for him whom everyone else condemned .
With her own trembling hands she wrote him a letter to accompany the money Samuel sent before Hartwell was taken to the penitentiary for life .
She thanked him again for his kindness to her and assured him that she knew he was sorry for what he had done and that she would pray for him every night of her life .
Mark Hartwell had been hard and defiant enough , but the prison officials told that he cried like a child over Grandma Sheldon 's little letter .
`` There 's nobody all bad , '' says Grandma when she relates the story .
`` I used to believe a murderer must be , but I know better now .
I think of that poor man often and often .
He was so kind and gentle to me -- he must have been a good boy once .
I write him a letter every Christmas and I send him tracts and papers .
He 's my own little charity .
But I 've never been on the cars since and I never will be again .
You never can tell what will happen to you or what sort of people you 'll meet if you trust yourself on a train . ''
The Romance of Jedediah Jedediah was not a name that savoured of romance .
His last name was Crane , which is little better .
And it would be no use to call this story `` Mattie Adams 's Romance '' because Mattie Adams is not a romantic name either .
But names have really nothing to do with romance .
The most exciting and tragic affair I ever knew was between a man named Silas Putdammer and a woman named Kezia Cullen -- which has nothing to do with the present story .
Jedediah , to all outward seeming , did not appear to be any more romantic than his name .
He looked distinctly commonplace as he rode comfortably along the winding country road that was dreaming in the haze and sunshine of a midsummer afternoon .
He was perched on the seat of a bright red pedlar 's wagon , above and behind a dusty , ambling , red pony of that peculiar gait and appearance pertaining to the ponies of country pedlars -- a certain placid , unhasting leanness , as of a nag that has encountered troubles of his own and has lived them down by sheer patience and staying power .
From the bright red wagon proceeded a certain metallic rumbling and clinking as it bowled along , and two or three nests of tin pans on its flat rope-encircled top flashed back the light so dazzlingly that Jedediah seemed the beaming sun of a little planetary system all his own .
A new broom sticking up aggressively at each of the four corners gave the wagon a resemblance to a triumphal chariot .
Jedediah himself had not been in the tin-peddling business long enough to acquire the apologetic , out-at-elbows appearance which distinguishes a tin pedlar from other kinds of pedlars .
In fact , this was his maiden venture in this line ; hence he still looked plump and self-respecting .
He had a round red face under his plug hat , twinkling blue eyes , and a little pursed-up mouth , the shape of which was partly due to nature and partly to much whistling .
Jedediah 's pudgy body was clothed in a suit of large , light checks , and he wore a bright pink necktie and an amethyst pin .
Will I still be believed when I assert that , in spite of all this , Jedediah was full of , and bubbling over with , romance ?
Romance cares not for appearances and apparently delights in contradictions .
The homely shambling man you pass unnoticed on the street may have , tucked away in his past , a story more exciting and thrilling than anything you have ever read in fiction .
So it was , in a measure , with Jedediah ; poor , unknown to fame , afflicted with a double chin and bald spot , reduced to driving a tin-wagon for a living , he yet had his romance and he was still romantic .
As Jedediah rode through Amberley he looked about him with interest .
He knew it well , although it was fifteen years since he had seen it .
He had been born and brought up in Amberley ; he had left it at the age of twenty-five to make his fortune .
But Amberley was Amberley still .
Jedediah found it hard to believe that it or himself was fifteen years older .
`` There 's the Stanton place , '' he said .
`` Charlie has painted the house yellow -- it used to be white ; and Bob Hollman has cut the trees down behind the blacksmith forge .
Bob never had any poetry in his soul -- no romance , as you might say .
He was what you might call a plodder -- you might call him that .
Get up , my nag , get up .
There 's the old Harkness place -- seems to be spruced up considerable .
Folks used to say if ye wanted to see how the world looked the morning after the flood just go into George Harkness 's barn-yard on a rainy day .
The pond and the old hills ai n't changed any .
Get up , my nag , get up .
There 's the Adams homestead .
Do I really behold it again ? ''
Jedediah thought the moment deliciously romantic .
He revelled in it and , to match his exhilarated mood , he touched the pony with his whip and went clinking and glittering down the hill under the poplars at a dashing rate .
He had not intended to offer his wares in Amberley that day .
He meant to break the ice in Occidental , the village beyond .
But he could not pass the Adams place .
When he came to the open gate he turned in under the willows and drove down the wide , shady lane , girt on both sides with a trim white paling smothered in lavish sweetbriar bushes that were gay with bloom .
Jedediah 's heart was beating furiously under his checks .
`` What a fool you are , Jed Crane , '' he told himself .
`` You used to be a young fool , and now you 're an old one .
Sad , that !
Get up , my nag , get up .
It 's a poor lookout for a man of your years , Jed .
Do n't get excited .
It ai n't the least likely that Mattie Adams is here yet .
She 's married and gone years ago , no doubt .
It 's probable there 's no Adamses here at all now .
But it 's romantic , yes , it 's romantic .
It 's splendid .
Get up , my nag , get up . ''
The Adams place itself was not unromantic .
The house was a large , old-fashioned white one , with green shutters and a front porch with Grecian columns .
These were thought very elegant in Amberley .
Mrs. Carmody said they gave a house such a classical air .
In this instance the classical effect was somewhat smothered in honeysuckle , which rioted over the whole porch and hung in pale yellow , fragrant festoons over the rows of potted scarlet geraniums that flanked the green steps .
Beyond the house a low-boughed orchard covered the slope between it and the main road , and behind it there was a revel of colour betokening a flower garden .
Jedediah climbed down from his lofty seat and walked dubiously to a side door that looked more friendly , despite its prim screen , than the classical front porch .
As he drew near he saw a woman sitting behind the screen -- a woman who rose as he approached and opened the door .
Jedediah 's heart had been beating a wild tattoo as he crossed the yard .
It now stopped altogether -- at least he declared in later years it did .
The woman was Mattie Adams -- Mattie Adams fifteen years older than when he had seen her last , plumper , rosier , somewhat broader-faced , but still unmistakably Mattie Adams .
Jedediah felt that the situation was delicious .
`` Mattie , '' he said , holding out his hand .
`` Why , Jed , how are you ? ''
said Mattie , as if they had parted the week before .
It had always taken a great deal to disturb Mattie .
Whatever happened she was calm .
Even an old lover , and the only one she had ever possessed at that , dropping , so to speak , from the skies , after fifteen years ' disappearance , did not ruffle her placidity .
`` I did n't suppose you 'd know me , Mattie , '' said Jedediah , still holding her hand foolishly .
`` I knew you the minute I set eyes on you , '' returned Mattie .
`` You 're some fatter and older -- like myself -- but you 're Jed still .
Where have you been all these years ? ''
`` Pretty near everywhere , Mattie -- pretty near everywhere .
And ye see what it 's come to -- here I be driving a tin-wagon for Boone Brothers .
Business is business -- do n't you want to buy some new tinware ? ''
To himself , Jed thought it was romantic , asking a woman whom he had loved all his life to buy tins on the occasion of their first meeting after fifteen years ' separation .
`` I do n't know but I do want a quart measure , '' said Mattie , in her sweet , unchanged voice , `` but all in good time .
You must stay and have tea with me , Jed .
I 'm all alone now -- Mother and Father have gone .
Unhitch your horse and put him in the third stall in the stable . ''
Jed hesitated .
`` I ought to be getting on , I s ` pose , '' he said wistfully .
`` I hai n't done much today -- '' `` You must stay to tea , '' interrupted Mattie .
`` Why , Jed , there 's ever so much to tell and ask .
And we ca n't stand here in the yard and talk .
Look at Selena .
There she is , watching us from the kitchen window .
She 'll watch as long as we stand here . ''
Jed swung himself around .
Over the little valley below the Adams homestead was a steep , treeless hill , and on its crest was perched a bare farmhouse with windows stuck lavishly all over it .
At one of them a long , pale face was visible .
`` Has Selena been pasted up at that window ever since the last time we stood here and talked , Mattie ? ''
asked Jed , half resentfully , half amusedly .
It was characteristic of Mattie to laugh first at the question , and then blush over the memory it revived .
`` Most of the time , I guess , '' she said shortly .
`` But come -- come in .
I never could talk under Selena 's eyes , even if they were four hundred yards away . ''
Jed went in and stayed to tea .
The old Adams pantry had not failed , nor apparently the Adams skill in cooking .
After tea Jed hung around till sunset and drove away with a warm invitation from Mattie to call every time his rounds took him through Amberley .
As he went , Selena 's face appeared at the window of the house over the valley .
When he had gone Mattie went around to the classical porch and sat herself down under the honeysuckle festoons that dangled above her smooth braids of fawn-coloured hair .
She knew Selena would be down posthaste presently , agog with curiosity to find out who the pedlar was whom Mattie had delighted to honour with an invitation to tea .
Mattie preferred to meet Selena out of doors .
It was easier to thrust and parry there .
Meanwhile , she wanted to think over things .
Fifteen years before Jedediah Crane had been Mattie Adams 's beau .
Jedediah was romantic even then , but , as he was a slim young fellow at the time , with an abundance of fair , curly hair and innocent blue eyes , his romance was rather an attraction than not .
At least the then young and pretty Mattie had found it so .
The Adamses looked with no favour on the match .
They were a thrifty , well-to-do folk .
As for the Cranes -- well , they were lazy and shiftless , for the most part .
It would be a mésalliance for an Adams to marry a Crane .
Still , it would doubtless have happened -- for Mattie , though a meek-looking damsel , had a mind of her own -- had it not been for Selena Ford , Mattie 's older sister .
Selena , people said , had married James Ford for no other reason than that his house commanded a view of nearly every dooryard in Amberley .
This may or may not have been sheer malice .
Certainly nothing that went on in the Adams yard escaped Selena .
She watched Mattie and Jed in the moonlight one night .
She saw Jed kiss Mattie .
It was the first time he had ever done so -- and the last , poor fellow .
For Selena swooped down on her parents the next day .
Such a storm did she brew up that Mattie was forbidden to speak to Jed again .
Selena herself gave Jed a piece of her mind .
Jed usually was not afflicted with undue sensitiveness .
But he had some slumbering pride at the basis of his character and it was very stubborn when roused .
Selena roused it .
Jed vowed he would never creep and crawl at the feet of the Adamses , and he went west forthwith , determined , as aforesaid , to make his fortune and hurl Selena 's scorn back in her face .
And now he had come home , driving a tin-wagon .
Mattie smiled to think of it .
She bore Jed no ill will for his failure .
She felt sorry for him and inclined to think that fate had used him hardly -- fate and Selena together .
Mattie had never had another beau .
People thought she was engaged to Jed Crane until her time for beaus went by .
Mattie did not mind ; she had never liked anybody so well as Jed .
To be sure , she had not thought of him for years .
It was strange he should come back like this -- `` romantic , '' as he said himself .
Mattie 's reverie was interrupted by Selena .
Angular , pale-eyed Mrs. Ford was as unlike the plump , rosy Mattie as a sister could be .
Perhaps her chronic curiosity , which would not let her rest , was accountable for her excessive leanness .
`` Who was that pedlar that was here this afternoon , Mattie ? ''
she demanded as soon as she arrived .
Mattie smiled .
`` Jed Crane , '' she said .
`` He 's home from the West and driving a tin-wagon for the Boones . ''
Selena gave a little gasp .
She sat down on the lowest step and untied her bonnet strings .
`` Mattie Adams !
And you kept him hanging about the whole afternoon . ''
`` Why not ? ''
said Mattie wickedly .
She liked to alarm Selena .
`` Jed and I were always beaus , you know . ''
`` Mattie Adams !
You do n't mean to say you 're going to make a fool of yourself over Jed Crane again ?
A woman of your age ! ''
`` Do n't get excited , Selena , '' implored Mattie .
In the old days Selena could cow her , but that time was past .
`` I never saw the like of you for getting stirred up over nothing . ''
`` I 'm not excited .
I 'm perfectly calm .
But I might well be excited over your folly , Mattie Adams .
The idea of your taking up again with old Jed Crane ! ''
`` He 's fifteen years younger than Jim , '' said Mattie , giving thrust for thrust .
When Selena had come over Mattie had not the slightest idea of resuming her former relationship with the romantic Jedediah .
She had merely shown him kindness for old friendship 's sake .
But so well did the unconscious Selena work in Jed 's behalf that when she flounced off home in a pet Mattie was resolved that she would take Jed back if he wanted to come .
She was n't going to put up with Selena 's everlasting interference .
She would show her that she was independent .
When a week had passed Jed came again .
He sold Mattie a stew-pan and he would not go in to tea this time , but they stood and talked in the yard for the best part of an hour , while Selena glared at them from her kitchen window .
Their conversation was most innocent and harmless , being mainly gossip about what had come and gone during Jed 's exile .
But Mattie knew that Selena thought that she and Jed were making love to each other in this shameless , public fashion .
When Jed went , Mattie , more for Selena 's benefit than his , broke off some sprays of honeysuckle and pinned them on his coat .
The fragrance went with Jedediah as he drove through Amberley , and pleasant thoughts were born of it .
`` It 's romantic , '' he told the pony .
`` Blessed if it ai n't romantic !
Not that Mattie cares anything about me now .
I know she do n't .
But it 's just her kind way .
She wants to cheer me up and let me know I 've a friend still .
Get up , my nag , get up .
I ai n't one to persoom on her kindness neither ; I know my place .
But still , say what you will , it 's romantic -- this sitooation .
This is it .
Here I be , loving the ground she walks on , as I 've always done , and I ca n't let on that I do because I 'm a poor ne'er - do-well as ai n't fit to look at her , an independent woman with property .
And she 's a-showing kindness to me for old times ' sake , and piercing my heart all the time , not knowing .
Why , it 's romance with a vengeance , that 's what it is .
Get up , my nag , get up . ''
Thereafter Jed called at the Adams place every week .
Generally he stayed to tea .
Mattie always bought something of him to colour an excuse .
Her kitchen fairly glittered with new tinware .
She gave Selena the overflow by way of heaping coals of fire .
After every visit Jedediah held stern counsel with himself and decided that he must not call to see Mattie again -- at least , not for a long time ; then he must not stay to tea .
He would struggle with himself all the way down the poplar hill -- not without a comforting sense of the romance of the struggle -- but it always ended the same way .
He turned in under the willows and clinked musically into Mattie 's yard .
At least , the rattle of the tin-wagon sounded musically to Mattie .
Meanwhile , Selena watched from her window and raged .
Amberley people shrugged their shoulders when gossip noised the matter abroad .
But , being good-humoured in the main , they forebore to do more than say that Mattie Adams was free to make a goose of herself if it pleased her , and that Jed Crane was n't such a fool as he looked .
The Adams farm was one of the best in Amberley , and it had not grown any poorer under Mattie 's management .
`` If Jed walks in there and hangs up his hat he 'll have done well for himself after all . ''
This was Selena 's view of it also , barring the good nature .
She was furious at the whole affair , and she did her best to make Mattie 's life a burden to her with slurs and thrusts .
But they all misjudged Jed .
He had no intention of `` walking in and hanging up his hat '' -- or trying to .
Romantic as he was , it never occurred to him that Mattie might be as romantic as himself .
She did not care for him , and anyhow he , Jed , had a little too much pride to ask her , a rich woman , to marry him , a poor man who had lost all caste he ever possessed by taking up tin-peddling .
Jed was determined not to `` persoom . ''
And , oh , how deliciously romantic it all was !
He hugged himself with sorrowful delight over it .
As the summer waned and the long yellow leaves began to fall thickly from the willows in the Adams lane Jed began to talk of going out west again .
Tin-peddling was not possible in winter , and he did n't think he would try it another summer .
Mattie listened with dismay in her heart .
All summer she had made much of Jed , by way of tormenting Selena .
But now she realized what he really meant to her .
The old love had wakened to life in her heart ; she could not let Jed go out of her life again , leaving her to the old loneliness .
If Jed went away everything would be flat , stale , and unprofitable .
She knew him to be at heart the kindest , most gentle of human beings , and the mere fact of his having been unsuccessful , even what some of his old neighbours might call stupid , did not change her feelings toward him in the least .
He was Jed -- that was sufficient for her , and she had business capability enough for both , when it came to that .
Mattie began to drop hints .
But Jed would not take them .
True , once or twice he thought that perhaps Mattie did care a little for him yet .
But it would not do for him to take advantage of that .
`` No , I just could n't do that , '' he told the pony .
`` I worship the ground that woman treads on , but it ai n't for the likes of me to tell her so , not now .
Get up , my nag , get up .
This has been a mighty pleasant summer with that visit to look forward to every week .
But it 's about over now and you must tramp , Jed . ''
Jed sighed .
He remembered that it was more romantic than ever , but all at once this failed to comfort him .
Romance up to a certain point was food ; beyond that it palled , so to speak .
Jed 's romance failed him just when he needed it most .
Mattie , meanwhile , was forced to the dismal conclusion that her hints were thrown away .
Jed was plainly determined not to speak .
Mattie felt half angry with him .
She did not choose to make a martyr of herself to romance , and surely the man did n't expect her to ask him to marry her .
`` I 'm sure and certain he 's as fond of me as ever he was , '' she mused .
`` I suppose he 's got some ridiculous notion about being too poor to aspire to me .
Jed always had more pride than a Crane could carry .
Well , I 've done all I can -- all I 'm going to do .
If Jed 's determined to go , he must go , I s ` pose . ''
Mattie would not let herself cry , although she felt like it .
She went out and picked apples instead .
Mattie might have remained so and Jedediah 's romance might never have reached a better ending , if it had not been for Selena , who came over just then to help Mattie pick the golden russets .
Fate had evidently destined her as Jed 's best helper .
All summer she had been fairly goading Mattie into love with Jedediah and now she was moved to add the last spur .
`` Jed Crane 's going away , I hear , '' she said maliciously .
`` Seems to me you 're bound to be jilted again , Mattie . ''
Mattie had no answer ready .
Selena went on undauntedly .
`` You 've made a nice fool of yourself all summer , I vow .
Throwing yourself at Jed 's head -- and he does n't want you , even with all your property . ''
`` He does want me , '' said Mattie calmly .
Her lips were very firm and her cheeks scarlet .
`` He is not going away .
We are to be married about Christmas , and Jed will take charge of the farm for me . ''
`` Matilda Adams ! ''
said Selena .
It was all she was capable of saying .
The rest of the golden russets were picked in a dead silence , Mattie working with an unusually high colour in her cheeks , while Selena 's thin lips were pressed so closely together as to be little else than a hair line .
After Selena had gone home , sulking , Mattie picked on with a very determined face .
The die was cast ; she could not bear Selena 's slurs and she would not .
And she had not told a lie either .
Her words were true ; she would make them true .
All the Adams determination -- and that was not a little -- was roused in her .
`` If Jed jilts me , he 'll do it to my face , clean and clever , '' she said viciously .
When Jed came again he was very solemn .
He thought it would be his last visit , but Mattie felt differently .
She had dressed herself with unusual care and crimped her hair .
Her cheeks were scarlet and her eyes bright .
Jed thought she looked younger and prettier than ever .
The thought that this was the last time he would see her for many a long day to come grew more and more unbearable , yet he firmly determined he would let no presuming word pass his lips .
Mattie had been so kind to him .
It was only honourable of him in return not to let her throw herself away on a poor failure like himself .
`` I suppose this is your last round with the wagon , '' she said .
She had taken him out into the garden to say it .
The garden was out of view from the Ford place .
Propose she must , but she drew the line at proposing under Selena 's eyes .
Jed nodded dully .
`` Yes , and then I must toddle off and look for something else to do .
You see , I have n't much of a gift so to speak for business , Mattie , and it takes me so long to get worked into an understanding of a business or trade that I 'm generally asked to quit before you might say I 've really commenced .
It 's been a mighty happy summer for me , though I ca n't say I 've done much in the selling line except to you , Mattie .
What with your kindness and these little visits you 've been good enough to let me make every week , I feel I may say it 's been the happiest summer of my life , and I 'm never going to forget it , but as I said , it 's time for me to be moving on elsewhere and finding something else to do . ''
`` There is something for you to do right here -- if you will do it , '' said Mattie faintly .
For a moment she felt as if she could not go on ; Jed and the garden and the scarf of late asters whirled around her dizzily .
She held by the sweet-pea trellis to steady herself .
`` I -- I said a terrible thing to Selena the other day .
I -- I do n't know what I 'll do about it if -- if -- you do n't help me out , Jed . ''
`` I 'll do anything I can , '' said Jed , with hearty sympathy .
`` You know that , Mattie .
What is the trouble ? ''
His kindly voice and the good will and affection beaming in his honest blue eyes gave Mattie renewed courage to go on with her self-imposed and most embarrassing task , although before she ended her voice shook and dwindled away to such a low whisper that Jed had to bend his head close to hers to hear what she was saying .
`` I -- I said -- she goaded me into saying it , Jed -- slighting and slurring -- jeering at me because you were going away .
I just got mad , Jed -- and I told her you were n't going -- that you and I -- that we were to be -- married . ''
`` Mattie , did you mean that ? ''
he cried .
`` If you did , I 'm the happiest man alive .
I did n't dare persoom -- I did n't s ` pose you thought anything of me .
But if you do -- and if you want me -- here 's all there is of me , heart and soul and body , forever and ever , as I 've been all my life . ''
Thinking over this speech afterwards Jed was dissatisfied with it .
He thought he might have made it much more eloquent and romantic than it was .
But it served the purpose very well .
It was convincing -- it came straight from his honest , stupid heart , and Mattie knew it .
She held out her hands and Jed gathered her into his arms .
It was certainly a most fortunate circumstance that the garden was well out of the range of Selena 's vision , or the sight of her sister and the remaining member of the despised Crane family repeating their foolish performance , which many years previous had resulted in Jed 's long banishment , might have caused her to commit almost any unheard-of act of spite as an outlet for her jealous anger .
But only the few remaining garden flowers were witness to the lovers ' indiscretion , and they kept their own counsel after the manner of flowers , so Selena 's feelings were mercifully spared this further outrage .
That evening Jed drove slowly away through the twilight , mounted for the last time on the tin-wagon .
He was so happy that he bore no grudge against even Selena Ford .
As the pony climbed the poplar hill Jed drew a long breath and freed his mind to the surrounding landscape and to his faithful and slow-plodding steed that had been one of the main factors in this love affair , having patiently carried him to and from the abode of his lady-love throughout the summer just passed .
Jedediah was as brimful of happiness as mortal man could be , and his rosy thoughts flowed forth in a kind of triumphant chant which would have driven Selena stark distracted had she been within hearing distance .
What he said too was but a poor expression of what he thought , but to the trees and fields and pony he chanted , `` Well , this is romance .
What else would you call it now ?
Me , poor , scared to speak -- and Mattie ups and does it for me , bless her .
Yes , I 've been longing for romance all my life , and I 've got it at last .
None of your commonplace courtships for me , I always said .
Them was my very words .
And I guess this has been a little uncommon -- I guess it has .
Anyhow , I 'm uncommon happy .
I never felt so romantic before .
Get up , my nag , get up . ''
The Tryst of the White Lady `` I wisht ye 'd git married , Roger , '' said Catherine Ames .
`` I 'm gitting too old to work -- seventy last April -- and who 's going to look after ye when I 'm gone .
Git married , b ` y -- git married . ''
Roger Temple winced .
His aunt 's harsh , disagreeable voice always jarred horribly on his sensitive nerves .
He was fond of her after a fashion , but always that voice made him wonder if there could be anything harder to endure .
Then he gave a bitter little laugh .
`` Who 'd have me , Aunt Catherine ? ''
he asked .
Catherine Ames looked at him critically across the supper table .
She loved him in her way , with all her heart , but she was not in the least blind to his defects .
She did not mince matters with herself or with other people .
Roger was a sallow , plain-featured fellow , small and insignificant looking .
And , as if this were not bad enough , he walked with a slight limp and had one thin shoulder a little higher than the other -- `` Jarback '' Temple he had been called in school , and the name still clung to him .
To be sure , he had very fine grey eyes , but their dreamy brilliance gave his dull face an uncanny look which girls did not like , and so made matters rather worse than better .
Of course looks did n't matter so much in the case of a man ; Steve Millar was homely enough , and all marked up with smallpox to boot , yet he had got for wife the prettiest and smartest girl in South Bay .
But Steve was rich .
Roger was poor and always would be .
He worked his stony little farm , from which his father and grandfather had wrested a fair living , after a fashion , but Nature had not cut him out for a successful farmer .
He had n't the strength for it and his heart was n't in it .
He 'd rather be hanging over a book .
Catherine secretly thought Roger 's matrimonial chances very poor , but it would not do to discourage the b ` y .
What he needed was spurring on .
`` Ye 'll git someone if ye do n't fly too high , '' she announced loudly and cheerfully .
`` Thar 's always a gal or two here and thar that 's glad to marry for a home .
` Tai n't no use for you to be settin ' your thoughts on anyone young and pretty .
Ye would n't git her and ye 'd be worse off if ye did .
Your grandfather married for looks , and a nice useless wife he got -- sick half her time .
Git a good strong girl that ai n't afraid of work , that 'll hold things together when ye 're reading po ` try -- that 's as much as you kin expect .
And the sooner the better .
I 'm done -- last winter 's rheumatiz has about finished me .
An ' we ca n't afford hired help . ''
Roger felt as if his raw , quivering soul were being seared .
He looked at his aunt curiously -- at her broad , flat face with the mole on the end of her dumpy nose , the bristling hairs on her chin , the wrinkled yellow neck , the pale , protruding eyes , the coarse , good-humoured mouth .
She was so extremely ugly -- and he had seen her across the table all his life .
For twenty-five years he had looked at her so .
Must he continue to go on looking at ugliness in the shape of a wife all the rest of his life -- he , who worshipped beauty in everything ?
`` Did my mother look like you , Aunt Catherine ? ''
he asked abruptly .
His aunt stared -- and snorted .
Her snort was meant to express kindly amusement , but it sounded like derision and contempt .
`` Yer ma was n't so humly as me , '' she said cheerfully , `` but she wa n't no beauty either .
None of the Temples was ever better lookin ' than was necessary .
We was workers .
Yer pa wa 'n' t bad looking .
You 're humlier than either of 'em .
Some ways ye take after yer grandma -- though she was counted pretty at one time .
She was yaller and spindlin ' like you , and you 've got her eyes .
What yer so int ` rested in yer ma 's looks all at once fer ? ''
`` I was wondering , '' said Roger coolly , `` if Father ever looked at her across the table and wished she were prettier . ''
Catherine giggled .
Her giggle was ugly and disagreeable like everything else about her -- everything except a certain odd , loving , loyal old heart buried deep in her bosom , for the sake of which Roger endured the giggle and all the rest .
`` Dessay he did -- dessay he did .
Men al ` ays has a hankerin ' for good looks .
But ye 've got to cut yer coat ` cording to yer cloth .
As for yer poor ma , she did n't live long enough to git as ugly as me .
When I come here to keep house for yer pa , folks said as it would n't be long ` fore he married me .
I would n't a-minded .
But yer pa never hinted it .
S'pose he 'd had enough of ugly women likely . ''
Catherine snorted amiably again .
Roger got up -- he could n't endure any more just then .
He must escape .
`` Now you think over what I 've said , '' his aunt called after him .
`` Ye 've gotter git a wife soon , however ye manage it .
` Two n't be so hard if ye 're reasonable .
Do n't stay out as late as ye did last night .
Ye coughed all night .
Where was ye -- down at the shore ? ''
`` No , '' said Roger , who always answered her questions even when he hated to .
`` I was down at Aunt Isabel 's grave . ''
`` Till eleven o'clock !
Ye ai n't wise !
I dunno what hankering ye have after that unchancy place .
I ai n't been near it for twenty year .
I wonder ye ai n't scairt .
What 'd ye think ye 'd do if ye saw her ghost ? ''
Catherine looked curiously at Roger .
She was very superstitious and she believed firmly in ghosts , and saw no absurdity in her question .
`` I wish I could see it , '' said Roger , his great eyes flashing .
He believed in ghosts too , at least in Isabel Temple 's ghost .
His uncle had seen it ; his grandfather had seen it ; he believed he would see it -- the beautiful , bewitching , mocking , luring ghost of lovely Isabel Temple .
`` Do n't wish such stuff , '' said Catherine .
`` Nobody ai n't never the same after they 've seen her . ''
`` Was Uncle different ? ''
Roger had come back into the kitchen and was looking curiously at his aunt .
`` Diff ` rent ?
He was another man .
He did n't even look the same .
Sich eyes !
Al ` ays looking past ye at something behind ye .
They 'd give anyone creeps .
He never had any notion of flesh-and-blood women after that -- said a man would n't , after seeing Isabel .
His life was plumb ruined .
Lucky he died young .
I hated to be in the same room with him -- he wa 'n' t canny , that was all there was to it .
You keep away from that grave -- you do n't want to look odder than ye are by nature .
And when ye git married , ye 'll have to give up roamin ' about half the night in graveyards .
A wife would n't put up with it , as I 've done . ''
`` I 'll never get as good a wife as you , Aunt Catherine , '' said Roger with a little whimsical smile that gave him the look of an amused gnome .
`` Dessay you wo n't .
But someone ye have to have .
Why 'n' t ye try ` Liza Adams .
She might have ye -- she 's gittin ' on . '' ''
` Liza ... Adams ! ''
`` That 's what I said .
Ye need n't repeat it -- ` Liza ... Adams -- 's if I 'd mentioned a hippopotamus .
I git out of patience with ye .
I b ` lieve in my heart ye think ye ought to git a wife that 'd look like a picter . ''
`` I do , Aunt Catherine .
That 's just the kind of wife I want -- grace and beauty and charm .
Nothing less than that will ever content me . ''
* * * * * Roger laughed bitterly again and went out .
It was sunset .
There was no work to do that night except to milk the cows , and his little home boy could do that .
He felt a glad freedom .
He put his hand in his pocket to see if his beloved Wordsworth was there and then he took his way across the fields , under a sky of purple and amber , walking quickly despite his limp .
He wanted to get to some solitary place where he could forget Aunt Catherine and her abominable suggestions and escape into the world of dreams where he habitually lived and where he found the loveliness he had not found nor could hope to find in his real world .
Roger 's mother had died when he was three and his father when he was eight .
His little , old , bedridden grandmother had lived until he was twelve .
He had loved her passionately .
She had not been pretty in his remembrance -- a tiny , shrunken , wrinkled thing -- but she had beautiful grey eyes that never grew old and a soft , gentle voice -- the only woman 's voice he had ever heard with pleasure .
He was very critical as regards women 's voices and very sensitive to them .
Nothing hurt him quite so much as an unlovely voice -- not even unloveliness of face .
Her death had left him desolate .
She was the only human being who had ever understood him .
He could never , he thought , have got through his tortured school days without her .
After she died he would not go to school .
He was not in any sense educated .
His father and grandfather had been illiterate men and he had inherited their underdeveloped brain cells .
But he loved poetry and read all he could get of it .
It overlaid his primitive nature with a curious iridescence of fancy and furnished him with ideals and hungers his environment could never satisfy .
He loved beauty in everything .
Moonrises hurt him with their loveliness and he could sit for hours gazing at a white narcissus -- much to his aunt 's exasperation .
He was solitary by nature .
He felt horribly alone in a crowded building but never in the woods or in the wild places along the shore .
It was because of this that his aunt could not get him to go to church -- which was a horror to her orthodox soul .
He told her he would like to go to church if it were empty but he could not bear it when it was full -- full of smug , ugly people .
Most people , he thought , were ugly -- though not so ugly as he was -- and ugliness made him sick with repulsion .
Now and then he saw a pretty girl at whom he liked to look but he never saw one that wholly pleased him .
To him , the homely , crippled , poverty-stricken Roger Temple whom they all would have scorned , there was always a certain subtle something wanting , and the lack of it kept him heartwhole .
He knew that this probably saved him from much suffering , but for all that he regretted it .
He wanted to love , even vainly ; he wanted to experience this passion of which the poets sang so much .
Without it he felt he lacked the key to a world of wonder .
He even tried to fall in love ; he went to church for several Sundays and sat where he could see beautiful Elsa Carey .
She was lovely -- it gave him pleasure to look at her ; the gold of her hair was so bright and living ; the pink of her cheek so pure , the curve of her neck so flawless , the lashes of her eyes so dark and silken .
But he looked at her as at a picture .
When he tried to think and dream of her , it bored him .
Besides , he knew she had a rather nasal voice .
He used to laugh sarcastically to himself over Elsa 's feelings if she had known how desperately he was trying to fall in love with her and failing -- Elsa the queen of hearts , who believed she had only to look to reign .
He gave up trying at last , but he still longed to love .
He knew he would never marry ; he could not marry plainness , and beauty would have longed to love .
He knew he would never marry ; he could not marry plainness , and beauty would have none of him ; but he did not want to miss everything and he had moments when he was very bitter and rebellious because he felt he must miss it forever .
He went straight to Isabel Temple 's grave in the remote shore field of his farm .
Isabel Temple had lived and died eighty years ago .
She had been very lovely , very wilful , very fond of playing with the hearts of men .
She had married William Temple , the brother of his great-grandfather , and as she stood in her white dress beside her bridegroom , at the conclusion of the wedding ceremony , a jilted lover , crazed by despair , had entered the house and shot her dead .
She had been buried in the shore field , where a square space had been dyked off in the centre for a burial lot because the church was then so far away .
With the passage of years the lot had grown up so thickly with fir and birch and wild cherry that it looked like a compact grove .
A winding path led through it to its heart where Isabel Temple 's grave was , thickly overgrown with long , silken , pale green grass .
Roger hurried along the path and sat down on the big grey boulder by the grave , looking about him with a long breath of delight .
How lovely -- and witching -- and unearthly it was here .
Little ferns were growing in the hollows and cracks of the big boulder where clay had lodged .
Over Isabel Temple 's crooked , lichened gravestone hung a young wild cherry in its delicate bloom .
Above it , in a little space of sky left by the slender tree tops , was a young moon .
It was too dark here after all to read Wordsworth , but that did not matter .
The place , with its moist air , its tang of fir balsam , was like a perfumed room where a man might dream dreams and see visions .
There was a soft murmur of wind in the boughs over him , and the faraway moan of the sea on the bar crept in .
Roger surrendered himself utterly to the charm of the place .
When he entered that grove , he had left behind the realm of daylight and things known and come into the realm of shadow and mystery and enchantment .
Anything might happen -- anything might be true .
Eighty long years had come and gone , but Isabel Temple , thus cruelly torn from life at the moment when it had promised her most , did not even yet rest calmly in her grave ; such at least was the story , and Roger believed it .
It was in his blood to believe it .
The Temples were a superstitious family , and there was nothing in Roger 's upbringing to correct the tendency .
His was not a sceptical or scientific mind .
He was ignorant and poetical and credulous .
He had always accepted unquestioningly the tale that Isabel Temple had been seen on earth long after the red clay was heaped over her murdered body .
Her bridegroom had seen her , when he went to visit her on the eve of his second and unhappy marriage ; his grandfather had seen her .
His grandmother , who had told him Isabel 's story , had told him this too , and believed it .
She had added , with a bitterness foreign to his idea of her , that her husband had never been the same to her afterwards ; his uncle had seen her -- and had lived and died a haunted man .
It was only to men the lovely , restless ghost appeared , and her appearance boded no good to him who saw .
Roger knew this , but he had a curious longing to see her .
He had never avoided her grave as others of his tribe did .
He loved the spot , and he believed that some time he would see Isabel Temple there .
She came , so the story went , to one in each generation of the family .
He gazed down at her sunken grave ; a little wind , that came stealing along the floor of the grove , raised and swayed the long , hair-like grass on it , giving the curious suggestion of something prisoned under it trying to draw a long breath and float upward .
Then , when he lifted his eyes again , he saw her !
She was standing behind the gravestone , under the cherry tree , whose long white branches touched her head ; standing there , with her head drooping a little , but looking steadily at him .
It was just between dusk and dark now , but he saw her very plainly .
She was dressed in white , with some filmy scarf over her head , and her hair hung in a dark heavy braid over her shoulder .
Her face was small and ivory-white , and her eyes were very large and dark .
Roger looked straight into them and they did something to him -- drew something out of him that was never to be his again -- his heart ?
his soul ?
He did not know .
He only knew that lovely Isabel Temple had now come to him and that he was hers forever .
For a few moments that seemed years he looked at her -- looked till the lure of her eyes drew him to his feet as a man rises in sleep-walking .
As he slowly stood up , the low-hanging bough of a fir tree pushed his cap down over his face and blinded him .
When he snatched it off , she was gone .
* * * * * Roger Temple did not go home that night till the spring dawn was in the sky .
Catherine was sleepless with anxiety about him .
When she heard him come up the stairs , she opened her door and peeped out .
Roger went along the hall without seeing her .
His brilliant eyes stared straight before him , and there was something in his face that made Catherine steal back to her bed with a little shiver of fear .
He looked like his uncle .
She did not ask him , when they met at breakfast , where or how he had spent the night .
He had been dreading the question and was relieved beyond measure when it was not asked .
But , apart from that , he was hardly conscious of her presence .
He ate and drank mechanically and voicelessly .
When he had gone out , Catherine wagged her uncomely grey head ominously .
`` He 's bewitched , '' she muttered .
`` I know the signs .
He 's seen her -- drat her !
It 's time she gave up that kind of work .
Well , I dunno what to do -- thar ai n't anything I can do , I reckon .
He 'll never marry now -- I 'm as sure of that as of any mortal thing .
He 's in love with a ghost . ''
It had not yet occurred to Roger that he was in love .
He thought of nothing but Isabel Temple -- her lovely , lovely face , sweeter than any picture he had ever seen or any ideal he had dreamed , her long dark hair , her slim form and , more than all , her compelling eyes .
He saw them wherever he looked -- they drew him -- he would have followed them to the end of the world , heedless of all else .
He longed for night , that he might again steal to the grave in the haunted grove .
She might come again -- who knew ?
He felt no fear , nothing but a terrible hunger to see her again .
But she did not come that night -- nor the next -- nor the next .
Two weeks went by and he had not seen her .
Perhaps he would never see her again -- the thought filled him with anguish not to be borne .
He knew now that he loved her -- Isabel Temple , dead for eighty years .
This was love -- this searing , torturing , intolerably sweet thing -- this possession of body and soul and spirit .
The poets had sung but weakly of it .
He could tell them better if he could find words .
Could other men have loved at all -- could any man love those blowzy , common girls of earth ?
It seemed impossible -- absurd .
There was only one thing that could be loved -- that white spirit .
No wonder his uncle had died .
He , Roger Temple , would soon die too .
That would be well .
Only the dead could woo Isabel .
Meanwhile he revelled in his torment and his happiness -- so madly commingled that he never knew whether he was in heaven or hell .
It was beautiful -- and dreadful -- and wonderful -- and exquisite -- oh , so exquisite .
Mortal love could never be so exquisite .
He had never lived before -- now he lived in every fibre of his being .
He was glad Aunt Catherine did not worry him with questions .
He had feared she would .
But she never asked any questions now and she was afraid of Roger , as she had been afraid of his uncle .
She dared not ask questions .
It was a thing that must not be tampered with .
Who knew what she might hear if she asked him questions ?
She was very unhappy .
Something dreadful had happened to her poor boy -- he had been bewitched by that hussy -- he would die as his uncle had died .
`` Mebbe it 's best , '' she muttered .
`` He 's the last of the Temples , so mebbe she 'll rest in her grave when she 's killed 'em all .
I dunno what she 's sich a spite at them for -- there 'd be more sense if she 'd haunt the Mortons , seein ' as a Morton killed her .
Well , I 'm mighty old and tired and worn out .
It do n't seem that it 's been much use , the way I 've slaved and fussed to bring that b ' y up and keep things together for him -- and now the ghost 's got him .
I might as well have let him die when he was a sickly baby . ''
If this had been said to Roger he would have retorted that it was worthwhile to have lived long enough to feel what he was feeling now .
He would not have missed it for a score of other men 's lives .
He had drunk of some immortal wine and was as a god .
Even if she never came again , he had seen her once , and she had taught him life 's great secret in that one unforgettable exchange of eyes .
She was his -- his in spite of his ugliness and his crooked shoulder .
No man could ever take her from him .
But she did come again .
One evening , when the darkening grove was full of magic in the light of the rising yellow moon shining across the level field , Roger sat on the big boulder by the grave .
The evening was very still ; there was no sound save the echoes of noisy laughter that seemed to come up from the bay shore -- drunken fishermen , likely as not .
Roger resented the intrusion of such a sound in such a place -- it was a sacrilege .
When he came here to dream of her , only the loveliest of muted sounds should be heard -- the faintest whisper of trees , the half-heard , half-felt moan of surf , the airiest sigh of wind .
He never read Wordsworth now or any other book .
He only sat there and thought of her , his great eyes alight , his pale face flushed with the wonder of his love .
She slipped through the dark boughs like a moonbeam and stood by the stone .
Again he saw her quite plainly -- saw and drank her in with his eyes .
He did not feel surprise -- something in him had known she would come again .
He would not move a muscle lest he lose her as he had lost her before .
They looked at each other -- for how long ?
He did not know ; and then -- a horrible thing happened .
Into that place of wonder and revelation and mystery reeled a hiccoughing , laughing creature , a drunken sailor from a harbour ship , with a leering face and desecrating breath .
`` Oh , you 're here , my dear -- I thought I 'd catch you yet , '' he said .
He caught hold of her .
She screamed .
Roger sprang forward and struck him in the face .
In his fury of sudden rage the strength of ten seemed to animate his slender body and pass into his blow .
The sailor reeled back and put up his hands .
He was a coward -- and even a brave man might have been daunted by that terrible white face and those blazing eyes .
He backed down the path .
`` Shorry -- shorry , '' he muttered .
`` Did n't know she was your girl -- shorry I butted in .
Shentlemans never butt in -- shorry -- shir -- shorry . ''
He kept repeating his ridiculous `` shorry '' until he was out of the grove .
Then he turned and ran stumblingly across the field .
Roger did not follow ; he went back to Isabel Temple 's grave .
The girl was lying across it ; he thought she was unconscious .
He stooped and picked her up -- she was light and small , but she was warm flesh and blood ; she clung uncertainly to him for a moment and he felt her breath on his face .
He did not speak -- he was too sick at heart .
She did not speak either .
He did not think this strange until afterwards .
He was incapable of thinking just then ; he was dazed , wretched , lost .
Presently he became aware that she was timidly pulling his arm .
It seemed that she wanted him to go with her -- she was evidently frightened of that brute -- he must take her to safety .
And then -- She moved on down the little path and he followed .
Out in the moonlit field he saw her clearly .
With her drooping head , her flowing dark hair , her great brown eyes , she looked like the nymph of a wood-brook , a haunter of shadows , a creature sprung from the wild .
But she was mortal maid , and he -- what a fool he had been !
Presently he would laugh at himself , when this dazed agony should clear away from his brain .
He followed her down the long field to the bay shore .
Now and then she paused and looked back to see if he were coming , but she never spoke .
When she reached the shore road she turned and went along it until they came to an old grey house fronting the calm grey harbour .
At its gate she paused .
Roger knew now who she was .
Catherine had told him about her a month ago .
She was Lilith Barr , a girl of eighteen , who had come to live with her uncle and aunt .
Her father had died some months before .
She was absolutely deaf as the result of some accident in childhood , and she was , as his own eyes told him , exquisitely lovely in her white , haunting style .
But she was not Isabel Temple ; he had tricked himself -- he had lived in a fool 's paradise -- oh , he must get away and laugh at himself .
He left her at her gate , disregarding the little hand she put timidly out -- but he did not laugh at himself .
He went back to Isabel Temple 's grave and flung himself down on it and cried like a boy .
He wept his stormy , anguished soul out on it ; and when he rose and went away , he believed it was forever .
He thought he could never , never go there again .
* * * * * Catherine looked at him curiously the next morning .
He looked wretched -- haggard and hollow-eyed .
She knew he had not come in till the summer dawn .
But he had lost the rapt , uncanny look she hated ; suddenly she no longer felt afraid of him .
With this , she began to ask questions again .
`` What kept ye out so late again last night , b ` y ? ''
she said reproachfully .
Roger looked at her in her morning ugliness .
He had not really seen her for weeks .
Now she smote on his tortured senses , so long drugged with beauty , like a physical blow .
He suddenly burst into a laughter that frightened her .
`` Preserve 's , b ` y , have ye gone mad ?
Or , '' she added , `` have ye seen Isabel Temple 's ghost ? ''
`` No , '' said Roger loudly and explosively .
`` Do n't talk any more about that damned ghost .
Nobody ever saw it .
The whole story is balderdash . ''
He got up and went violently out , leaving Catherine aghast .
Was it possible Roger had sworn ?
What on earth had come over the b ` y ?
But come what had or come what would , he no longer looked fey -- there was that much to be thankful for .
Even an occasional oath was better than that .
Catherine went stiffly about her dish-washing , resolving to have ` Liza Adams to supper some night .
For a week Roger lived in agony -- an agony of shame and humiliation and self-contempt .
Then , when the edge of his bitter disappointment wore away , he made another dreadful discovery .
He still loved her and longed for her just as keenly as before .
He wanted madly to see her -- her flower-like face , her great , asking eyes , the sleek , braided flow of her hair .
Ghost or woman -- spirit or flesh -- it mattered not .
He could not live without her .
At last his hunger for her drew him to the old grey house on the bay shore .
He knew he was a fool -- she would never look at him ; he was only feeding the flame that must consume him .
But go he must and did , seeking for his lost paradise .
He did not see her when he went in , but Mrs. Barr received him kindly and talked about her in a pleasant garrulous fashion which jarred on Roger , yet he listened greedily .
Lilith , her aunt told him , had been made deaf by the accidental explosion of a gun when she was eight years old .
She could not hear a sound but she could talk .
`` A little , that is -- not much , but enough to get along with .
But she do n't like talking somehow -- dunno why .
She 's shy -- and we think maybe she do n't like to talk much because she ca n't hear her own voice .
She do n't ever speak except just when she has to .
But she 's been trained to lip-reading something wonderful -- she can understand anything that 's said when she can see the person that 's talking .
Still , it 's a terrible drawback for the poor child -- she 's never had any real girl-life and she 's dreadful sensitive and retiring .
We ca n't get her to go out anywhere , only for lonely walks along shore by herself .
We 're much obliged for what you did the other night .
It ai n't safe for her to wander about alone as she does , but it ai n't often anybody from the harbour gets up this far .
She was dreadful upset about it -- has n't got over her scare yet . ''
When Lilith came in , her ivory-white face went scarlet all over at the sight of Roger .
She sat down in a shadowy corner .
Mrs. Barr got up and went out .
Roger was mute ; he could find nothing to say .
He could have talked glibly enough to Isabel Temple 's ghost in some unearthly tryst by her grave , but he could not find a word to say to this slip of flesh and blood .
He felt very foolish and absurd , and very conscious of his twisted shoulder .
What a fool he had been to come !
Then Lilith looked up at him -- and smiled .
A little shy , friendly smile .
Roger suddenly saw her not as the tantalizing , unreal , mystic thing of the twilit grove , but as a little human creature , exquisitely pretty in her young-moon beauty , longing for companionship .
He got up , forgetting his ugliness , and went across the room to her .
`` Will you come for a walk , '' he said eagerly .
He held out his hand like a child ; as a child she stood up and took it ; like two children they went out and down the sunset shore .
Roger was again incredibly happy .
It was not the same happiness as had been his in that vanished fortnight ; it was a homelier happiness with its feet on the earth .
The amazing thing was that he felt she was happy too -- happy because she was walking with him , `` Jarback '' Temple , whom no girl had even thought about .
A certain secret well-spring of fancy that had seemed dry welled up in him sparklingly again .
Through the summer weeks the odd courtship went on .
Roger talked to her as he had never talked to anyone .
He did not find it in the least hard to talk to her , though her necessity of watching his face so closely while he talked bothered him occasionally .
He felt that her intent gaze was reading his soul as well as his lips .
She never talked much herself ; what she did say she spoke so low that it was hardly above a whisper , but she had a voice as lovely as her face -- sweet , cadenced , haunting .
Roger was quite mad about her , and he was horribly afraid that he could never get up enough courage to ask her to marry him .
And he was afraid that if he did , she would never consent .
In spite of her shy , eager welcomes he could not believe she could care for him -- for him .
She liked him , she was sorry for him , but it was unthinkable that she , white , exquisite Lilith , could marry him and sit at his table and his hearth .
He was a fool to dream of it .
To the existence of romance and glamour in which he lived , no gossip of the countryside penetrated .
Yet much gossip there was , and at last it came blundering in on Roger to destroy his fairy world a second time .
He came downstairs one night in the twilight , ready to go to Lilith .
His aunt and an old crony were talking in the kitchen ; the crony was old , and Catherine , supposing Roger was out of the house , was talking loudly in that horrible voice of hers with still more horrible zest and satisfaction .
`` Yes , I 'm guessing it 'll be a match as ye say .
Oh the b ` y 's doing well .
He ai n't for every market , as I 'm bound to admit .
Ef she wa n't deaf she would n't look at him , no doubt .
But she has scads of money -- they wo n't need to do a tap of work unless they like -- and she 's a good housekeeper too her aunt tells me .
She 's pretty enough to suit him -- he 's as particular as never was -- and he wa n't crooked and she wa n't deaf when they was born , so it 's likely their children will be all right .
I 'm that proud when I think of the match . ''
Roger fled out of the house , white of face and sick of heart .
He went , not to the bay shore , but to Isabel Temple 's grave .
He had never been there since the night when he had rescued Lilith , but now he rushed to it in his new agony .
His aunt 's horrible practicalities had filled him with disgust -- they dragged his love in the dust of sordid things .
And Lilith was rich ; he had never known that -- never suspected it .
He could never ask her to marry him now ; he must never see her again .
For the second time he had lost her , and this second losing could not be borne .
He sat down on the big boulder by the grave and dropped his poor grey face in his hands , moaning in anguish .
Nothing was left him , not even dreams .
He hoped he could soon die .
He did not know how long he sat there -- he did not know when she came .
But when he lifted his miserable eyes , he saw her , sitting just a little way from him on the big stone and looking at him with something in her face that made his heart beat madly .
He forgot Aunt Catherine 's sacrilege -- he forgot that he was a presumptuous fool .
He bent forward and kissed her lips for the first time .
The wonder of it loosed his bound tongue .
`` Lilith , '' he gasped , `` I love you . ''
She put her hand into his and nestled closer to him .
`` I thought you would have told me that long ago , '' she said .
Uncle Richard 's New Year 's Dinner Prissy Baker was in Oscar Miller 's store New Year 's morning , buying matches -- for New Year 's was not kept as a business holiday in Quincy -- when her uncle , Richard Baker , came in .
He did not look at Prissy , nor did she wish him a happy New Year ; she would not have dared .
Uncle Richard had not been on speaking terms with her or her father , his only brother , for eight years .
He was a big , ruddy , prosperous-looking man -- an uncle to be proud of , Prissy thought wistfully , if only he were like other people 's uncles , or , indeed , like what he used to be himself .
He was the only uncle Prissy had , and when she had been a little girl they had been great friends ; but that was before the quarrel , in which Prissy had had no share , to be sure , although Uncle Richard seemed to include her in his rancour .
Richard Baker , so he informed Mr. Miller , was on his way to Navarre with a load of pork .
`` I did n't intend going over until the afternoon , '' he said , `` but Joe Hemming sent word yesterday he would n't be buying pork after twelve today .
So I have to tote my hogs over at once .
I do n't care about doing business New Year 's morning . ''
`` Should think New Year 's would be pretty much the same as any other day to you , '' said Mr. Miller , for Richard Baker was a bachelor , with only old Mrs. Janeway to keep house for him .
`` Well , I always like a good dinner on New Year 's , '' said Richard Baker .
`` It 's about the only way I can celebrate .
Mrs. Janeway wanted to spend the day with her son 's family over at Oriental , so I was laying out to cook my own dinner .
I got everything ready in the pantry last night , ` fore I got word about the pork .
I wo n't get back from Navarre before one o'clock , so I reckon I 'll have to put up with a cold bite . ''
After her Uncle Richard had driven away , Prissy walked thoughtfully home .
She had planned to spend a nice , lazy holiday with the new book her father had given her at Christmas and a box of candy .
She did not even mean to cook a dinner , for her father had had to go to town that morning to meet a friend and would be gone the whole day .
There was nobody else to cook dinner for .
Prissy 's mother had died when Prissy was a baby .
She was her father 's housekeeper , and they had jolly times together .
But as she walked home , she could not help thinking about Uncle Richard .
He would certainly have cold New Year cheer , enough to chill the whole coming year .
She felt sorry for him , picturing him returning from Navarre , cold and hungry , to find a fireless house and an uncooked dinner in the pantry .
Suddenly an idea popped into Prissy 's head .
Dared she ?
Oh , she never could !
But he would never know -- there would be plenty of time -- she would !
Prissy hurried home , put her matches away , took a regretful peep at her unopened book , then locked the door and started up the road to Uncle Richard 's house half a mile away .
She meant to go and cook Uncle Richard 's dinner for him , get it all beautifully ready , then slip away before he came home .
He would never suspect her of it .
Prissy would not have him suspect for the world ; she thought he would be more likely to throw a dinner of her cooking out of doors than to eat it .
Eight years before this , when Prissy had been nine years old , Richard and Irving Baker had quarrelled over the division of a piece of property .
The fault had been mainly on Richard 's side , and that very fact made him all the more unrelenting and stubborn .
He had never spoken to his brother since , and he declared he never would .
Prissy and her father felt very badly over it , but Uncle Richard did not seem to feel badly at all .
To all appearance he had completely forgotten that there were such people in the world as his brother Irving and his niece Prissy .
Prissy had no trouble in breaking into Uncle Richard 's house , for the woodshed door was unfastened .
She tripped into the hostile kitchen with rosy cheeks and mischief sparkling in her eyes .
This was an adventure -- this was fun !
She would tell her father all about it when he came home at night and what a laugh they would have !
There was still a good fire in the stove , and in the pantry Prissy found the dinner in its raw state -- a fine roast of fresh pork , potatoes , cabbage , turnips and the ingredients of a raisin pudding , for Richard Baker was fond of raisin puddings , and could make them as well as Mrs. Janeway could , if that was anything to boast of .
In a short time the kitchen was full of bubbling and hissings and appetizing odours .
Prissy enjoyed herself hugely , and the raisin pudding , which she rather doubtfully mixed up , behaved itself beautifully .
`` Uncle Richard said he 'd be home by one , '' said Prissy to herself , as the clock struck twelve , `` so I 'll set the table now , dish up the dinner , and leave it where it will keep warm until he gets here .
Then I 'll slip away home .
I 'd like to see his face when he steps in .
I suppose he 'll think one of the Jenner girls across the street has cooked his dinner . ''
Prissy soon had the table set , and she was just peppering the turnips when a gruff voice behind her said : `` Well , well , what does this mean ? ''
Prissy whirled around as if she had been shot , and there stood Uncle Richard in the woodshed door !
Poor Prissy !
She could not have looked or felt more guilty if Uncle Richard had caught her robbing his desk .
She did not drop the turnips for a wonder ; but she was too confused to set them down , so she stood there holding them , her face crimson , her heart thumping , and a horrible choking in her throat .
`` I -- I -- came up to cook your dinner for you , Uncle Richard , '' she stammered .
`` I heard you say -- in the store -- that Mrs. Janeway had gone home and that you had nobody to cook your New Year 's dinner for you .
So I thought I 'd come and do it , but I meant to slip away before you came home . ''
Poor Prissy felt that she would never get to the end of her explanation .
Would Uncle Richard be angry ?
Would he order her from the house ?
`` It was very kind of you , '' said Uncle Richard drily .
`` It 's a wonder your father let you come . ''
`` Father was not home , but I am sure he would not have prevented me if he had been .
Father has no hard feelings against you , Uncle Richard . ''
`` Humph ! ''
said Uncle Richard .
`` Well , since you 've cooked the dinner you must stop and help me eat it .
It smells good , I must say .
Mrs. Janeway always burns pork when she roasts it .
Sit down , Prissy .
I 'm hungry . ''
They sat down .
Prissy felt quite giddy and breathless , and could hardly eat for excitement ; but Uncle Richard had evidently brought home a good appetite from Navarre , and he did full justice to his New Year 's dinner .
He talked to Prissy too , quite kindly and politely , and when the meal was over he said slowly : `` I 'm much obliged to you , Prissy , and I do n't mind owning to you that I 'm sorry for my share in the quarrel , and have wanted for a long time to be friends with your father again , but I was too ashamed and proud to make the first advance .
You can tell him so for me , if you like .
And if he 's willing to let bygones be bygones , tell him I 'd like him to come up here with you tonight when he gets home and spend the evening with me . ''
`` Oh , he will come , I know ! ''
cried Prissy joyfully .
`` He has felt so badly about not being friendly with you , Uncle Richard .
I 'm as glad as can be . ''
Prissy ran impulsively around the table and kissed Uncle Richard .
He looked up at his tall , girlish niece with a smile of pleasure .
`` You 're a good girl , Prissy , and a kind-hearted one too , or you 'd never have come up here to cook a dinner for a crabbed old uncle who deserved to eat cold dinners for his stubbornness .
It made me cross today when folks wished me a happy New Year .
It seemed like mockery when I had n't a soul belonging to me to make it happy .
But it has brought me happiness already , and I believe it will be a happy year all the way through . ''
`` Indeed it will ! ''
laughed Prissy .
`` I 'm so happy now I could sing .
I believe it was an inspiration -- my idea of coming up here to cook your dinner for you . ''
`` You must promise to come and cook my New Year 's dinner for me every New Year we live near enough together , '' said Uncle Richard .
And Prissy promised .
White Magic One September afternoon in the year of grace 1840 Avery and Janet Sparhallow were picking apples in their Uncle Daniel Sparhallow 's big orchard .
It was an afternoon of mellow sunshine ; about them , beyond the orchard , were old harvest fields , mellowly bright and serene , and beyond the fields the sapphire curve of the St. Lawrence Gulf was visible through the groves of spruce and birch .
There was a soft whisper of wind in the trees , and the pale purple asters that feathered the orchard grass swayed gently towards each other .
Janet Sparhallow , who loved the outdoor world and its beauty , was , for the time being at least , very happy , as her little brown face , with its fine , satiny skin , plainly showed .
Avery Sparhallow did not seem so happy .
She worked rather abstractedly and frowned oftener than she smiled .
Avery Sparhallow was conceded to be a beauty , and had no rival in Burnley Beach .
She was very pretty , with the obvious , indisputable prettiness of rich black hair , vivid , certain colour , and laughing , brilliant eyes .
Nobody ever called Janet a beauty , or even thought her pretty .
She was only seventeen -- five years younger than Avery -- and was rather lanky and weedy , with a rope of straight dark-brown hair , long , narrow , shining brown eyes and very black lashes , and a crooked , clever little mouth .
She had visitations of beauty when excited , because then she flushed deeply , and colour made all the difference in the world to her ; but she had never happened to look in the glass when excited , so that she had never seen herself beautiful ; and hardly anybody else had ever seen her so , because she was always too shy and awkward and tongue-tied in company to feel excited over anything .
Yet very little could bring that transforming flush to her face : a wind off the gulf , a sudden glimpse of blue upland , a flame-red poppy , a baby 's laugh , a certain footstep .
As for Avery Sparhallow , she never got excited over anything -- not even her wedding dress , which had come from Charlottetown that day , and was incomparably beyond anything that had ever been seen in Burnley Beach before .
For it was made of an apple-green silk , sprayed over with tiny rosebuds , which had been specially sent for to England , where Aunt Matilda Sparhallow had a brother in the silk trade .
Avery Sparhallow 's wedding dress was making far more of a sensation in Burnley Beach than her wedding itself was making .
For Randall Burnley had been dangling after her for three years , and everybody knew that there was nobody for a Sparhallow to marry except a Burnley and nobody for a Burnley to marry except a Sparhallow .
`` Only one silk dress -- and I want a dozen , '' Avery had said scornfully .
`` What would you do with a dozen silk dresses on a farm ? ''
Janet asked wonderingly .
`` Oh -- what indeed ? ''
agreed Avery , with an impatient laugh .
`` Randall will think just as much of you in drugget as in silk , '' said Janet , meaning to comfort .
Again Avery laughed .
`` That is true .
Randall never notices what a woman has on .
I like a man who does notice -- and tells me about it .
I like a man who likes me better in silk than in drugget .
I will wear this rosebud silk when I 'm married , and it will be supposed to last me the rest of my life and be worn on all state occasions , and in time become an heirloom like Aunt Matilda 's hideous blue satin .
I want a new silk dress every month . ''
Janet paid little attention to this kind of raving .
Avery had always been more or less discontented .
She would be contented enough after she was married .
Nobody could be discontented who was Randall Burnley 's wife .
Janet was sure of that .
Janet liked picking apples ; Avery did not like it ; but Aunt Matilda had decreed that the red apples should be picked that afternoon , and Aunt Matilda 's word was law at the Sparhallow farm , even for wilful Avery .
So they worked and talked as they worked -- of Avery 's wedding , which was to be as soon as Bruce Gordon should arrive from Scotland .
`` I wonder what Bruce will be like , '' said Avery .
`` It is eight years since he went home to Scotland .
He was sixteen then -- he will be twenty-four now .
He went away a boy -- he will come back a man . ''
`` I do n't remember much about him , '' said Janet .
`` I was only nine when he went away .
He used to tease me -- I do remember that . ''
There was a little resentment in her voice .
Janet had never liked being teased .
Avery laughed .
`` You were so touchy , Janet .
Touchy people always get teased .
Bruce was very handsome -- and as nice as he was handsome .
Those two years he was here were the nicest , gayest time I ever had .
I wish he had stayed in Canada .
But of course he would n't do that .
His father was a rich man and Bruce was ambitious .
Oh , Janet , I wish I could live in the old land .
That would be life . ''
Janet had heard all this before and could not understand it .
She had no hankering for either Scotland or England .
She loved the new land and its wild , virgin beauty .
She yearned to the future , never to the past .
`` I 'm tired of Burnley Beach , '' Avery went on passionately , shaking apples wildly off a laden bough by way of emphasis .
`` I know all the people -- what they are -- what they can be .
It 's like reading a book for the twentieth time .
I know where I was born and who I 'll marry -- and where I 'll be buried .
That 's knowing too much .
All my days will be alike when I marry Randall .
There will never be anything unexpected or surprising about them .
I tell you Janet , '' Avery seized another bough and shook it with a vengeance , `` I hate the very thought of it . ''
`` The thought of -- what ? ''
said Janet in bewilderment .
`` Of marrying Randall Burnley -- or marrying anybody down here -- and settling down on a farm for life . ''
Then Avery sat down on the rung of her ladder and laughed at Janet 's face .
`` You look stunned , Janet .
Did you really think I wanted to marry Randall ? ''
Janet was stunned , and she did think that .
How could any girl not want to marry Randall Burnley if she had the chance ?
`` Do n't you love him ? ''
she asked stupidly .
Avery bit into a nut-sweet apple .
`` No , '' she said frankly .
`` Oh , I do n't hate him , of course .
I like him well enough .
I like him very well .
But we 'll quarrel all our lives . ''
`` Then what are you marrying him for ? ''
asked Janet .
`` Why , I 'm getting on -- twenty-two -- all the girls of my age are married already .
I wo n't be an old maid , and there 's nobody but Randall .
Nobody good enough for a Sparhallow , that is .
You would n't want me to marry Ned Adams or John Buchanan , would you ? ''
`` No , '' said Janet , who had her full share of the Sparhallow pride .
`` Well , then , of course I must marry Randall .
That 's settled and there 's no use making faces over the notion .
I 'm not making faces , but I 'm tired of hearing you talk as if you thought I adored him and must be in the seventh heaven because I was going to marry him , you romantic child . ''
`` Does Randall know you feel like this ? ''
asked Janet in a low tone .
`` No .
Randall is like all men -- vain and self-satisfied -- and believes I 'm crazy about him .
It 's just as well to let him think so , until we 're safely married anyhow .
Randall has some romantic notions too , and I 'm not sure that he 'd marry me if he knew , in spite of his three years ' devotion .
And I have no intention of being jilted three weeks before my wedding day . ''
Avery laughed again , and tossed away the core of her apple .
Janet , who had been very pale , went crimson and lovely .
She could not endure hearing Randall criticized .
`` Vain and self-satisfied '' -- when there was never a man less so !
She was horrified to feel that she almost hated Avery -- Avery who did not love Randall .
`` What a pity Randall did n't take a fancy to you instead of me , Janet , '' said Avery teasingly .
`` Would n't you like to marry him , Janet ?
Would n't you now ? ''
`` No , '' cried Janet angrily .
`` I just like Randall , I 've liked him ever since that day when I was a little thing and he came here and saved me from being shut up all day in that dreadful dark closet because I broke Aunt Matilda 's blue cup -- when I had n't meant to break it .
He would n't let her shut me up !
He is like that -- he understands !
I want you to marry him because he wants you , and it is n't fair that you -- that you -- '' `` Nothing is fair in this world , child .
Is it fair that I , who am so pretty -- you know I am pretty , Janet -- and who love life and excitement , should have to be buried on a P.E. Island farm all my days ?
Or else be an old maid because a Sparhallow must n't marry beneath her ?
Come , Janet , do n't look so woebegone .
I would n't have told you if I 'd thought you 'd take it so much to heart .
I 'll be a good wife to Randall , never fear , and I 'll keep him up to the notch of prosperity much better than if I thought him a little lower than the angels .
It does n't do to think a man perfection , Janet , because he thinks so too , and when he finds someone who agrees with him he is inclined to rest on his oars . ''
`` At any rate , you do n't care for anyone else , '' said Janet hopefully .
`` Not I. I like Randall as well as I like anybody . ''
`` Randall wo n't be satisfied with that , '' muttered Janet .
But Avery did not hear her , having picked up her basket of apples and gone .
Janet sat down on the lower rung of the ladder and gave herself up to an unpleasant reverie .
Oh , how the world had changed in half an hour !
She had never been so worried in her life .
She was so fond of Randall -- she had always been fond of him -- why , he was just like a brother to her !
She could n't possibly love a brother more .
And Avery was going to hurt him ; it would hurt him horribly when he found out she did not love him .
Janet could not bear the thought of Randall being hurt ; it made her fairly savage .
He must not be hurt -- Avery must love him .
Janet could not understand why she did not .
Surely everyone must love Randall .
It had never occurred to Janet to ask herself , as Avery had asked , if she would like to marry Randall .
Randall could never fancy her -- a little plain , brown thing , only half grown .
Nobody could think of her beside beautiful , rose-faced Avery .
Janet accepted this fact unquestioningly .
She had never been jealous .
She only felt that she wanted Randall to have everything he wanted -- to be perfectly happy .
Why , it would be dreadful if he did not marry Avery -- if he went and married some other girl .
She would never see him then , never have any more delightful talks with him about all the things they both loved so much -- winds and delicate dawns , mysterious woods in moonlight and starry midnights , silver-white sails going out of the harbour in the magic of morning , and the grey of gulf storms .
There would be nothing in life ; it would just be one great , unbearable emptiness ; for she , herself , would never marry .
There was nobody for her to marry -- and she did n't care .
If she could have Randall for a real brother , she would not mind a bit being an old maid .
And there was that beautiful new frame house Randall had built for his bride , which she , Janet , had helped him build , because Avery would not condescend to details of pantry and linen closet and cupboards .
Janet and Randall had had such fun over the cupboards .
No stranger must ever come to be mistress of that house .
Randall must marry Avery , and she must love him .
Could anything be done to make her love him ?
`` I believe I 'll go and see Granny Thomas , '' said Janet desperately .
She thought this was a silly idea , but it still haunted her and would not be shaken off .
Granny Thomas was a very old woman who lived at Burnley Cove and was reputed to be something of a witch .
That is , people who were not Sparhallows or Burnleys gave her that name .
Sparhallows or Burnleys , of course , were above believing in such nonsense .
Janet was above believing it ; but still -- the sailors along shore were careful to `` keep on the good side '' of Granny Thomas , lest she brew an unfavourable wind for them , and there was much talk of love potions .
Janet knew that people said Peggy Buchanan would never have got Jack McLeod if Granny had not given her a love potion .
Jack had never looked at Peggy , though she was after him for years ; and then , all at once , he was quite mad about her -- and married her -- and wore her life out with jealousy .
And Peggy , the homeliest of all the Buchanan girls !
There must be something in it .
Janet made a sudden desperate resolve .
She would go to Granny and ask her for a love potion to make Avery love Randall .
If Granny could n't do any good , she could n't do any harm .
Janet was a little afraid of her , and had never been near her house , but what would n't she do for Randall ?
* * * * * Janet never lost much time in carrying out any resolution she made .
The next afternoon she slipped away to visit Granny Thomas .
She put on her longest dress and did her hair up for the first time .
Granny must not think her a child .
She rowed herself down the long pond to the row of golden-brown sand dunes that parted it from the gulf .
It was a wonderful autumn day .
There were wild growths and colours and scents in sweet procession all around the pond .
Every curve in it revealed some little whim of loveliness .
On the left bank , in a grove of birch , was Randall 's new house , waiting to be sanctified by love and joy and birth .
Janet loved to be alone thus with the delightful day .
She was sorry when she had walked over the stretch of windy weedy sea fields and reached Granny 's little tumbledown house at the Cove -- sorry and a little frightened as well .
But only a little ; there was good stuff in Janet ; she lifted the latch boldly and walked in when Granny bade .
Granny was curled up on a stool by her fireplace , and if ever anybody did look like a witch , she did .
She waved her pipe at another stool , and Janet sat down , gazing a little curiously at Granny , whom she had never seen at such close quarters before .
Will I look like that when I am very old ?
she thought , beholding Granny 's wizened , marvellously wrinkled face .
I wonder if anybody will be sorry when you die .
`` Staring was n't thought good manners in my time , '' said Granny .
Then , as Janet blushed crimson under the rebuke , she added , `` Keep red like that instead o ' white , and you wo n't need no love ointment . ''
Janet felt a little cold thrill .
How did Granny know what she had come for ?
Was she a real witch after all ?
For a moment she wished she had n't come .
Perhaps it was not right to tamper with the powers of darkness .
Peggy Buchanan was notoriously unhappy .
If Janet had known how to get herself away , she would have gone without asking for anything .
Then a sound came from the lean-to behind the house .
`` S-s-h .
I hear the devil grunting like a pig , '' muttered Granny , looking very impish .
But Janet smiled a little contemptuously .
She knew it was a pig and no devil .
Granny Thomas was only an old fraud .
Her awe passed away and left her cool Sparhallow .
`` Can you , '' she said with her own directness , `` make a -- a person care for another person -- care -- very much ? ''
Granny removed her pipe and chuckled .
`` What you want is toad ointment , '' she said .
Toad ointment !
Janet shuddered .
That did not sound very nice .
Granny noticed the shudder .
`` Nothing like it , '' she said , nodding her crone-like old grey head .
`` There 's other things , but noan so sure .
Put a li'l bit -- oh , such a li'l bit -- on his eyelids , and he 's yourn for life .
You need something powerful -- you 're noan so pretty -- only when you 're blushing . ''
Janet was blushing again .
So Granny thought she wanted the charm for herself !
Well , what did it matter ?
Randall was the only one to be considered .
`` Is it very -- expensive ? ''
she faltered .
She had not much money .
Money was no plentiful thing on a P.E.I. farm in 1840 .
`` Oh , noa -- oh , noa , '' Granny leered .
`` I do n't sell it .
I gives it .
I like to see young folks happy .
You do n't need much , as I 've said -- just a li'l smootch and you 'll have your man , and send old Granny a bite o ' the wedding cake and fig o ' baccy for luck , and a bid to the fir-r-st christening !
Doa n't forget that , dearie . ''
Janet was cold again with anger .
She hated old Granny Thomas .
She would never come near her again .
`` I 'd rather pay you its worth , '' she said coldly .
`` You could n't , dearie .
What money could be eno ' for such a treasure ?
But that 's the Sparhallow pride .
Well , go , see if the Sparhallow pride and the Sparhallow money will buy you your lad 's love . ''
Granny looked so angry that Janet hastened to appease her .
`` Oh , please forgive me -- I meant no offence .
Only -- it must have cost you much trouble to make it . ''
Granny chuckled again .
She was vastly pleased to see a Sparhallow suing to her -- a Sparhallow !
`` Toads am cheap , '' she said .
`` It 's all in the knowing how and the time o ' the moon .
Here , take this li'l pill box -- there 's eno ' in it -- and put a li'l bit on his eyelids when you 've getten the chance -- and when he looks at you , he 'll love you .
Mind you , though , that he looks at no other first -- it 's the first one he sees that he 'll love .
That 's the way it works . ''
`` Thank you . ''
Janet took the little box .
She wished she dared to go at once .
But perhaps this would anger Granny .
Granny looked at her with a twinkle in her little , incredibly old eyes .
`` Be off , '' she said .
`` You 're in a hurry to go -- you 're as proud as any of the proud Sparhallows .
But I bear you no grudge .
I likes proud people -- when they have to come to me to get help . ''
Janet found herself outside with a relieved heart in her bosom and her little box in her hand .
For a moment she was tempted to throw it away .
But no -- Randall would be so unhappy if he found out Avery did n't love him !
She would try the ointment at least -- she would try to forget about the toads and not let herself think how it was made -- something might come of it .
* * * * * Janet hurried home along the shore , where a silvery wave broke in a little lovely silvery curve on the sand .
She was so happy that her cheeks burned , and Randall Burnley , who was sitting on the edge of her flat when she reached the pond , looked at her with admiration .
Janet dropped her box into her pocket stealthily when she saw him .
What with her guilty secret , she hardly knew whether she was glad or not when he said he was going to row her up the pond .
`` I saw you go down an hour ago and I 've been waiting ever since , '' he said .
`` Where have you been ? ''
`` Oh -- I just -- wanted a walk -- this lovely day , '' said Janet miserably .
She felt that she was telling an untruth and this hurt her horribly -- especially when it was to Randall .
This was what came of truck with witches -- you were led into falsehood and deception straightaway .
Again Janet was tempted to drop Granny 's pill box into the depths of Burnley Pond -- and again she decided not to because she saw Randall Burnley 's deep-set , blue-grey eyes , that could look tender or sorrowful or passionate or whimsical as he willed , and thought how they would look when he found Avery did not love him .
So Janet drowned the voice of conscience and was brazenly happy -- happy because Randall Burnley rowed her up the pond -- happy because he walked halfway home with her over the autumnal fields -- happy because he talked of the day and the sea and the golden weather , as only Randall could talk .
But she thought she was happy because she had in her pocket what might make Avery love him .
Randall went as far as the stile in the birch wood between the Burnley and the Sparhallow land -- and he kept her there talking for another half-hour -- and though he talked only of a book he had read and a new puppy he was training , Janet listened with her soul in her ears .
She talked too -- quite freely ; she was never in the least shy or tongue-tied or awkward in Randall 's company .
There she was always at her best , with a delightful feeling of being understood .
She wondered if he noticed she had her hair done up .
Her eyes shone and her brown face was full of rosy , kissable hues .
When he finally turned away homeward , life went flat .
Janet decided she was very tired after her long walk and her trying interview .
But it did not matter , since she had her love potion .
That was so much nicer a name than toad ointment .
That night Janet rubbed mutton tallow on her hands .
She had never done that before -- she had thought it vain and foolish -- though Avery did it every night .
But that afternoon on the pond Randall had said something about the beautiful shape of her pretty slender hands .
He had never paid her a compliment before .
Her hands were brown and a little hard -- not soft and white like Avery 's .
So Janet resorted to the mutton tallow .
If one had a scrap of beauty , if only in one 's hands , one might as well take care of it .
Having got her ointment , the next thing was to make use of it .
This was not so easy -- because , in the first place , it must not be done when there was any danger of Avery 's seeing some other than Randall first -- and it must be done without Avery 's knowing it .
The two problems combined were almost too much for Janet .
She bided her chance like a watchful cat -- but it did not come .
Two weeks went by and it had not come .
Janet was getting very desperate .
The wedding day was only a week away .
The bride 's cake was made and the turkeys fattened .
The invitations were sent out .
Janet 's own bridesmaid dress was ready .
And still the little pill box in the till of Janet 's blue chest was unopened .
She had never even opened it , lest virtue escape .
Then her chance came at last , unexpectedly .
One evening at dusk , when Janet was crossing the little dark upstairs hall , Aunt Matilda called up to her .
`` Janet , send Avery down .
There is a young man wanting to see her . ''
Aunt Matilda was laughing a little -- as she always did when Randall came .
It was a habit with her , hanging over from the early days of Randall 's courtship .
Janet went on into their room to tell Avery .
And lo , Avery was lying asleep on her bed , tired out from her busy day .
Janet , after one glance , flew to her chest .
She took out her pill box and opened it , a little fearfully .
The toad ointment was there , dark and unpleasant enough to view .
Janet tiptoed breathlessly to the bed and gingerly scraped the tip of her finger in the ointment .
She said so little would be enough -- oh , I hope I 'm not doing wrong .
Trembling with excitement , she brushed lightly the white lids of Avery 's eyes .
Avery stirred and opened them .
Janet guiltily thrust her pill box behind her .
`` Randall is downstairs asking for you , Avery . ''
Avery sat up , looking annoyed .
She had not expected Randall that evening and would greatly have preferred a continuance of her nap .
She went down crossly enough , but looking very lovely , flushed from sleep .
Janet stood in their room , clasping her cold hands nervously over her breast .
Would the charm work ?
Oh , she must know -- she must know .
She could not wait .
After a few moments that seemed like years she crept down the stairs and out into the dusk of the June-warm September night .
Like a shadow she slipped up to the open parlour window and looked cautiously in between the white muslin curtains .
The next minute she had fallen on her knees in the mint bed .
She wished she could die then and there .
The young man in the parlour was not Randall Burnley .
He was dark and smart and handsome ; he was sitting on the sofa by Avery 's side , holding her hands in his , smiling into her rosy , delighted , excited face .
And he was Bruce Gordon -- no doubt of that .
Bruce Gordon , the expected cousin from Scotland !
`` Oh , what have I done ?
What have I done ? ''
moaned poor Janet , wringing her hands .
She had seen Avery 's face quite plainly -- had seen the look in her eyes .
Avery had never looked at Randall Burnley like that .
Granny Thomas ' abominable ointment had worked all right -- and Avery had fallen in love with the wrong man .
Janet , cold with horror and remorse , dragged herself up to the window again and listened .
She must know -- she must be sure .
She could hear only a word here and there , but that word was enough .
`` I thought you promised to wait for me , Avery , '' Bruce said reproachfully .
`` You were so long in coming back -- I thought you had forgotten me , '' cried Avery .
`` I think I did forget a little , Avery .
I was such a boy .
But now -- well , thank Heaven , I have n't come too late . ''
There was a silence , and shameless Janet , peering above the window sill , saw what she saw .
It was enough .
She crept away upstairs to her room .
She was lying there across the bed when Avery swept in -- a splendid , transfigured Avery , flushed triumphant .
Janet sat up , pallid , tear-stained , and looked at her .
`` Janet , '' said Avery , `` I am going to marry Bruce Gordon next Wednesday night instead of Randall Burnley . ''
Janet sprang forward and caught Avery 's hand .
`` You must not , '' she cried wildly .
`` It 's all my fault -- oh , if I could only die -- I got the love ointment from Granny Thomas to rub on your eyes to make you love the first man you would see .
I meant it to be Randall -- I thought it was Randall -- oh , Avery ! ''
Avery had been listening , between amazement and anger .
Now anger mastered amazement .
`` Janet Sparhallow , '' she cried , `` are you crazy ?
Or do you mean that you went to Granny Thomas -- you , a Sparhallow !
-- and asked her for a love philtre to make me love Randall Burnley ? ''
`` I did n't tell her it was for you -- she thought I wanted it for myself , '' moaned Janet .
`` Oh , we must undo it -- I 'll go to her again -- no doubt she knows of some way to undo the spell -- '' Avery , whose rages never lasted long , threw back her dark head and laughed ringingly .
`` Janet Sparhallow , you talk as if you lived in the dark ages !
The idea of supposing that horrid old woman could give you love philtres !
Why , girl , I 've always loved Bruce -- always .
But I thought he 'd forgotten me .
And tonight when he came I found he had n't .
There 's the whole thing in a nutshell .
I 'm going to marry him and go home with him to Scotland . ''
`` And what about Randall ? ''
said Janet , corpse-white .
`` Oh , Randall -- pooh !
Do you suppose I 'm worrying about Randall ?
But you must go to him tomorrow and tell him for me , Janet . ''
`` I will not -- I will not . ''
`` Then I 'll tell him myself -- and I 'll tell him about you going to Granny , '' said Avery cruelly .
`` Janet , do n't stand there looking like that .
I 've no patience with you .
I shall be perfectly happy with Bruce -- I would have been miserable with Randall .
I know I sha n't sleep a wink tonight -- I 'm so excited .
Why , Janet , I 'll be Mrs. Gordon of Gordon Brae -- and I 'll have everything heart can desire and the man of my heart to boot .
What has lanky Randall Burnley with his little six-roomed house to set against that ? ''
If Avery did not sleep , neither did Janet .
She lay awake till dawn , suffering such misery as she had never endured in her life before .
She knew she must go to Randall Burnley tomorrow and break his heart .
If she did not , Avery would tell him -- tell him what Janet had done .
And he must not know that -- he must not .
Janet could not bear that thought .
* * * * * It was a pallid , dull-eyed Janet who went through the birch wood to the Burnley farm next afternoon , leaving behind her an excited household where the sudden change of bridegrooms , as announced by Avery , had rather upset everybody .
Janet found Randall working in the garden of his new house -- setting out rosebushes for Avery -- Avery , who was to jilt him at the very altar , so to speak .
He came over to open the gate for Janet , smiling his dear smile .
It was a dear smile -- Janet caught her breath over the dearness of it -- and she was going to blot it off his face .
She spoke out , with plainness and directness .
When you had to deal a mortal blow , why try to lighten it ?
`` Avery sent me to tell you that she is going to marry Bruce Gordon instead of you .
He came last night -- and she says that she has always liked him best . ''
A very curious change came over Randall 's face -- but not the change Janet had expected to see .
Instead of turning pale Randall flushed ; and instead of a sharp cry of pain and incredulity , Randall said in no uncertain tones , `` Thank God ! ''
Janet wondered if she were dreaming .
Granny Thomas ' love potion seemed to have turned the world upside down .
For Randall 's arms were about her and Randall was pressing his lean bronzed cheek to hers and Randall was saying : `` Now I can tell you , Janet , how much I love you . ''
`` Me ?
Me ! ''
choked Janet .
`` You .
Why , you 're in the very core of my heart , girl .
Do n't tell me you ca n't love me -- you can -- you must -- why , Janet , '' for his eyes had caught and locked with hers for a minute , `` you do ! ''
There were five minutes about which nobody can tell anything , for even Randall and Janet never knew clearly just what happened in those five minutes .
Then Janet , feeling somehow as if she had died and then come back to life , found her tongue .
`` Three years ago you came courting Avery , '' she said reproachfully .
`` Three years ago you were a child .
I did not think about you .
I wanted a wife -- and Avery was pretty .
I thought I was in love with her .
Then you grew up all at once -- and we were such good friends -- I never could talk to Avery -- she was n't interested in anything I said -- and you have eyes that catch a man -- I 've always thought of your eyes .
But I was honour-bound to Avery -- I did n't dream you cared .
You must marry me next Wednesday , Janet -- we 'll have a double wedding .
You wo n't mind -- being married -- so soon ? ''
`` Oh , no -- I wo n't -- mind , '' said Janet dazedly .
`` Only -- oh , Randall -- I must tell you -- I did n't mean to tell you -- I 'd have rather died -- but now -- I must tell you about it now -- because I ca n't bear anything hidden between us .
I went to old Granny Thomas -- and got a love ointment from her -- to make Avery love you , because I knew she did n't -- and I wanted you to be happy -- Randall , do n't -- I ca n't talk when you do that !
Do you think Granny 's ointment could have made her care for Bruce ? ''
Randall laughed -- the little , low laugh of the triumphant lover .
`` If it did , I 'm glad of it .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___Rainbow_Valley.txt.out
CHAPTER I. HOME AGAIN It was a clear , apple-green evening in May , and Four Winds Harbour was mirroring back the clouds of the golden west between its softly dark shores .
The sea moaned eerily on the sand-bar , sorrowful even in spring , but a sly , jovial wind came piping down the red harbour road along which Miss Cornelia 's comfortable , matronly figure was making its way towards the village of Glen St. Mary .
Miss Cornelia was rightfully Mrs. Marshall Elliott , and had been Mrs. Marshall Elliott for thirteen years , but even yet more people referred to her as Miss Cornelia than as Mrs. Elliott .
The old name was dear to her old friends , only one of them contemptuously dropped it .
Susan Baker , the gray and grim and faithful handmaiden of the Blythe family at Ingleside , never lost an opportunity of calling her `` Mrs. Marshall Elliott , '' with the most killing and pointed emphasis , as if to say `` You wanted to be Mrs. and Mrs. you shall be with a vengeance as far as I am concerned . ''
Miss Cornelia was going up to Ingleside to see Dr. and Mrs. Blythe , who were just home from Europe .
They had been away for three months , having left in February to attend a famous medical congress in London ; and certain things , which Miss Cornelia was anxious to discuss , had taken place in the Glen during their absence .
For one thing , there was a new family in the manse .
And such a family !
Miss Cornelia shook her head over them several times as she walked briskly along .
Susan Baker and the Anne Shirley of other days saw her coming , as they sat on the big veranda at Ingleside , enjoying the charm of the cat 's light , the sweetness of sleepy robins whistling among the twilit maples , and the dance of a gusty group of daffodils blowing against the old , mellow , red brick wall of the lawn .
Anne was sitting on the steps , her hands clasped over her knee , looking , in the kind dusk , as girlish as a mother of many has any right to be ; and the beautiful gray-green eyes , gazing down the harbour road , were as full of unquenchable sparkle and dream as ever .
Behind her , in the hammock , Rilla Blythe was curled up , a fat , roly-poly little creature of six years , the youngest of the Ingleside children .
She had curly red hair and hazel eyes that were now buttoned up after the funny , wrinkled fashion in which Rilla always went to sleep .
Shirley , `` the little brown boy , '' as he was known in the family `` Who 's Who , '' was asleep in Susan 's arms .
He was brown-haired , brown-eyed and brown-skinned , with very rosy cheeks , and he was Susan 's especial love .
After his birth Anne had been very ill for a long time , and Susan `` mothered '' the baby with a passionate tenderness which none of the other children , dear as they were to her , had ever called out .
Dr. Blythe had said that but for her he would never have lived .
`` I gave him life just as much as you did , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' Susan was wont to say .
`` He is just as much my baby as he is yours . ''
And , indeed , it was always to Susan that Shirley ran , to be kissed for bumps , and rocked to sleep , and protected from well-deserved spankings .
Susan had conscientiously spanked all the other Blythe children when she thought they needed it for their souls ' good , but she would not spank Shirley nor allow his mother to do it .
Once , Dr. Blythe had spanked him and Susan had been stormily indignant .
`` That man would spank an angel , Mrs. Dr. dear , that he would , '' she had declared bitterly ; and she would not make the poor doctor a pie for weeks .
She had taken Shirley with her to her brother 's home during his parents ' absence , while all the other children had gone to Avonlea , and she had three blessed months of him all to herself .
Nevertheless , Susan was very glad to find herself back at Ingleside , with all her darlings around her again .
Ingleside was her world and in it she reigned supreme .
Even Anne seldom questioned her decisions , much to the disgust of Mrs. Rachel Lynde of Green Gables , who gloomily told Anne , whenever she visited Four Winds , that she was letting Susan get to be entirely too much of a boss and would live to rue it .
`` Here is Cornelia Bryant coming up the harbour road , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan .
`` She will be coming up to unload three months ' gossip on us . ''
`` I hope so , '' said Anne , hugging her knees .
`` I 'm starving for Glen St. Mary gossip , Susan .
I hope Miss Cornelia can tell me everything that has happened while we 've been away -- EVERYTHING -- who has got born , or married , or drunk ; who has died , or gone away , or come , or fought , or lost a cow , or found a beau .
It 's so delightful to be home again with all the dear Glen folks , and I want to know all about them .
Why , I remember wondering , as I walked through Westminster Abbey which of her two especial beaux Millicent Drew would finally marry .
Do you know , Susan , I have a dreadful suspicion that I love gossip . ''
`` Well , of course , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' admitted Susan , `` every proper woman likes to hear the news .
I am rather interested in Millicent Drew 's case myself .
I never had a beau , much less two , and I do not mind now , for being an old maid does not hurt when you get used to it .
Millicent 's hair always looks to me as if she had swept it up with a broom .
But the men do not seem to mind that . ''
`` They see only her pretty , piquant , mocking , little face , Susan . ''
`` That may very well be , Mrs. Dr. dear .
The Good Book says that favour is deceitful and beauty is vain , but I should not have minded finding that out for myself , if it had been so ordained .
I have no doubt we will all be beautiful when we are angels , but what good will it do us then ?
Speaking of gossip , however , they do say that poor Mrs. Harrison Miller over harbour tried to hang herself last week . ''
`` Oh , Susan ! ''
`` Calm yourself , Mrs. Dr. dear .
She did not succeed .
But I really do not blame her for trying , for her husband is a terrible man .
But she was very foolish to think of hanging herself and leaving the way clear for him to marry some other woman .
If I had been in her shoes , Mrs. Dr. dear , I would have gone to work to worry him so that he would try to hang himself instead of me .
Not that I hold with people hanging themselves under any circumstances , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` What is the matter with Harrison Miller , anyway ? ''
said Anne impatiently .
`` He is always driving some one to extremes . ''
`` Well , some people call it religion and some call it cussedness , begging your pardon , Mrs. Dr. dear , for using such a word .
It seems they can not make out which it is in Harrison 's case .
There are days when he growls at everybody because he thinks he is fore-ordained to eternal punishment .
And then there are days when he says he does not care and goes and gets drunk .
My own opinion is that he is not sound in his intellect , for none of that branch of the Millers were .
His grandfather went out of his mind .
He thought he was surrounded by big black spiders .
They crawled over him and floated in the air about him .
I hope I shall never go insane , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I do not think I will , because it is not a habit of the Bakers .
But , if an all-wise Providence should decree it , I hope it will not take the form of big black spiders , for I loathe the animals .
As for Mrs. Miller , I do not know whether she really deserves pity or not .
There are some who say she just married Harrison to spite Richard Taylor , which seems to me a very peculiar reason for getting married .
But then , of course , I am no judge of things matrimonial , Mrs. Dr. dear .
And there is Cornelia Bryant at the gate , so I will put this blessed brown baby on his bed and get my knitting . ''
CHAPTER II .
SHEER GOSSIP `` Where are the other children ? ''
asked Miss Cornelia , when the first greetings -- cordial on her side , rapturous on Anne 's , and dignified on Susan 's -- were over .
`` Shirley is in bed and Jem and Walter and the twins are down in their beloved Rainbow Valley , '' said Anne .
`` They just came home this afternoon , you know , and they could hardly wait until supper was over before rushing down to the valley .
They love it above every spot on earth .
Even the maple grove does n't rival it in their affections . ''
`` I am afraid they love it too well , '' said Susan gloomily .
`` Little Jem said once he would rather go to Rainbow Valley than to heaven when he died , and that was not a proper remark . ''
`` I suppose they had a great time in Avonlea ? ''
said Miss Cornelia .
`` Enormous .
Marilla does spoil them terribly .
Jem , in particular , can do no wrong in her eyes . ''
`` Miss Cuthbert must be an old lady now , '' said Miss Cornelia , getting out her knitting , so that she could hold her own with Susan .
Miss Cornelia held that the woman whose hands were employed always had the advantage over the woman whose hands were not .
`` Marilla is eighty-five , '' said Anne with a sigh .
`` Her hair is snow-white .
But , strange to say , her eyesight is better than it was when she was sixty . ''
`` Well , dearie , I 'm real glad you 're all back .
I 've been dreadful lonesome .
But we have n't been dull in the Glen , believe ME .
There has n't been such an exciting spring in my time , as far as church matters go .
We 've got settled with a minister at last , Anne dearie . ''
`` The Reverend John Knox Meredith , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan , resolved not to let Miss Cornelia tell all the news .
`` Is he nice ? ''
asked Anne interestedly .
Miss Cornelia sighed and Susan groaned .
`` Yes , he 's nice enough if that were all , '' said the former .
`` He is VERY nice -- and very learned -- and very spiritual .
But , oh Anne dearie , he has no common sense !
`` How was it you called him , then ? ''
`` Well , there 's no doubt he is by far the best preacher we ever had in Glen St. Mary church , '' said Miss Cornelia , veering a tack or two .
`` I suppose it is because he is so moony and absent-minded that he never got a town call .
His trial sermon was simply wonderful , believe ME .
Every one went mad about it -- and his looks . ''
`` He is VERY comely , Mrs. Dr. dear , and when all is said and done , I DO like to see a well-looking man in the pulpit , '' broke in Susan , thinking it was time she asserted herself again .
`` Besides , '' said Miss Cornelia , `` we were anxious to get settled .
And Mr. Meredith was the first candidate we were all agreed on .
Somebody had some objection to all the others .
There was some talk of calling Mr. Folsom .
He was a good preacher , too , but somehow people did n't care for his appearance .
He was too dark and sleek . ''
`` He looked exactly like a great black tomcat , that he did , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan .
`` I never could abide such a man in the pulpit every Sunday . ''
`` Then Mr. Rogers came and he was like a chip in porridge -- neither harm nor good , '' resumed Miss Cornelia .
`` But if he had preached like Peter and Paul it would have profited him nothing , for that was the day old Caleb Ramsay 's sheep strayed into church and gave a loud ` ba-a-a ' just as he announced his text .
Everybody laughed , and poor Rogers had no chance after that .
Some thought we ought to call Mr. Stewart , because he was so well educated .
He could read the New Testament in five languages . ''
`` But I do not think he was any surer than other men of getting to heaven because of that , '' interjected Susan .
`` Most of us did n't like his delivery , '' said Miss Cornelia , ignoring Susan .
`` He talked in grunts , so to speak .
And Mr. Arnett could n't preach AT ALL .
And he picked about the worst candidating text there is in the Bible -- ` Curse ye Meroz . ' ''
`` Whenever he got stuck for an idea , he would bang the Bible and shout very bitterly , ` Curse ye Meroz . '
Poor Meroz got thoroughly cursed that day , whoever he was , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan .
`` The minister who is candidating ca n't be too careful what text he chooses , '' said Miss Cornelia solemnly .
`` I believe Mr. Pierson would have got the call if he had picked a different text .
But when he announced ' I will lift my eyes to the hills ' HE was done for .
Every one grinned , for every one knew that those two Hill girls from the Harbour Head have been setting their caps for every single minister who came to the Glen for the last fifteen years .
And Mr. Newman had too large a family . ''
`` He stayed with my brother-in-law , James Clow , '' said Susan . ''
` How many children have you got ? '
I asked him .
` Nine boys and a sister for each of them , ' he said .
` Eighteen ! '
said I. ` Dear me , what a family ! '
And then he laughed and laughed .
But I do not know why , Mrs. Dr. dear , and I am certain that eighteen children would be too many for any manse . ''
`` He had only ten children , Susan , '' explained Miss Cornelia , with contemptuous patience .
`` And ten good children would not be much worse for the manse and congregation than the four who are there now .
Though I would n't say , Anne dearie , that they are so bad , either .
I like them -- everybody likes them .
It 's impossible to help liking them .
They would be real nice little souls if there was anyone to look after their manners and teach them what is right and proper .
For instance , at school the teacher says they are model children .
But at home they simply run wild . ''
`` What about Mrs. Meredith ? ''
asked Anne .
`` There 's NO Mrs. Meredith .
That is just the trouble .
Mr. Meredith is a widower .
His wife died four years ago .
If we had known that I do n't suppose we would have called him , for a widower is even worse in a congregation than a single man .
But he was heard to speak of his children and we all supposed there was a mother , too .
And when they came there was nobody but old Aunt Martha , as they call her .
She 's a cousin of Mr. Meredith 's mother , I believe , and he took her in to save her from the poorhouse .
She is seventy-five years old , half blind , and very deaf and very cranky . ''
`` And a very poor cook , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` The worst possible manager for a manse , '' said Miss Cornelia bitterly .
`` Mr. Meredith wo n't get any other housekeeper because he says it would hurt Aunt Martha 's feelings .
Anne dearie , believe me , the state of that manse is something terrible .
Everything is thick with dust and nothing is ever in its place .
And we had painted and papered it all so nice before they came . ''
`` There are four children , you say ? ''
asked Anne , beginning to mother them already in her heart .
`` Yes .
They run up just like the steps of a stair .
Gerald 's the oldest .
He 's twelve and they call him Jerry .
He 's a clever boy .
Faith is eleven .
She is a regular tomboy but pretty as a picture , I must say . ''
`` She looks like an angel but she is a holy terror for mischief , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan solemnly .
`` I was at the manse one night last week and Mrs. James Millison was there , too .
She had brought them up a dozen eggs and a little pail of milk -- a VERY little pail , Mrs. Dr. dear .
Faith took them and whisked down the cellar with them .
Near the bottom of the stairs she caught her toe and fell the rest of the way , milk and eggs and all .
You can imagine the result , Mrs. Dr. dear .
But that child came up laughing . '
I do n't know whether I 'm myself or a custard pie , ' she said .
And Mrs. James Millison was very angry .
She said she would never take another thing to the manse if it was to be wasted and destroyed in that fashion . ''
`` Maria Millison never hurt herself taking things to the manse , '' sniffed Miss Cornelia .
`` She just took them that night as an excuse for curiosity .
But poor Faith is always getting into scrapes .
She is so heedless and impulsive . ''
`` Just like me .
I 'm going to like your Faith , '' said Anne decidedly .
`` She is full of spunk -- and I do like spunk , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' admitted Susan .
`` There 's something taking about her , '' conceded Miss Cornelia .
`` You never see her but she 's laughing , and somehow it always makes you want to laugh too .
She ca n't even keep a straight face in church .
Una is ten -- she 's a sweet little thing -- not pretty , but sweet .
And Thomas Carlyle is nine .
They call him Carl , and he has a regular mania for collecting toads and bugs and frogs and bringing them into the house . ''
`` I suppose he was responsible for the dead rat that was lying on a chair in the parlour the afternoon Mrs. Grant called .
It gave her a turn , '' said Susan , `` and I do not wonder , for manse parlours are no places for dead rats .
To be sure it may have been the cat who left it , there .
HE is as full of the old Nick as he can be stuffed , Mrs. Dr. dear .
A manse cat should at least LOOK respectable , in my opinion , whatever he really is .
But I never saw such a rakish-looking beast .
And he walks along the ridgepole of the manse almost every evening at sunset , Mrs. Dr. dear , and waves his tail , and that is not becoming . ''
`` The worst of it is , they are NEVER decently dressed , '' sighed Miss Cornelia .
`` And since the snow went they go to school barefooted .
Now , you know Anne dearie , that is n't the right thing for manse children -- especially when the Methodist minister 's little girl always wears such nice buttoned boots .
And I DO wish they would n't play in the old Methodist graveyard . ''
`` It 's very tempting , when it 's right beside the manse , '' said Anne .
`` I 've always thought graveyards must be delightful places to play in . ''
`` Oh , no , you did not , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said loyal Susan , determined to protect Anne from herself .
`` You have too much good sense and decorum . ''
`` Why did they ever build that manse beside the graveyard in the first place ? ''
asked Anne .
`` Their lawn is so small there is no place for them to play except in the graveyard . ''
`` It WAS a mistake , '' admitted Miss Cornelia .
`` But they got the lot cheap .
And no other manse children ever thought of playing there .
Mr. Meredith should n't allow it .
But he has always got his nose buried in a book , when he is home .
He reads and reads , or walks about in his study in a day-dream .
So far he has n't forgotten to be in church on Sundays , but twice he has forgotten about the prayer-meeting and one of the elders had to go over to the manse and remind him .
And he forgot about Fanny Cooper 's wedding .
They rang him up on the ` phone and then he rushed right over , just as he was , carpet slippers and all .
One would n't mind if the Methodists did n't laugh so about it .
But there 's one comfort -- they ca n't criticize his sermons .
He wakes up when he 's in the pulpit , believe ME .
And the Methodist minister ca n't preach at all -- so they tell me .
I have never heard him , thank goodness . ''
Miss Cornelia 's scorn of men had abated somewhat since her marriage , but her scorn of Methodists remained untinged of charity .
Susan smiled slyly .
`` They do say , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , that the Methodists and Presbyterians are talking of uniting , '' she said .
`` Well , all I hope is that I 'll be under the sod if that ever comes to pass , '' retorted Miss Cornelia .
`` I shall never have truck or trade with Methodists , and Mr. Meredith will find that he 'd better steer clear of them , too .
He is entirely too sociable with them , believe ME .
Why , he went to the Jacob Drews ' silver-wedding supper and got into a nice scrape as a result . ''
`` What was it ? ''
`` Mrs. Drew asked him to carve the roast goose -- for Jacob Drew never did or could carve .
Well , Mr. Meredith tackled it , and in the process he knocked it clean off the platter into Mrs. Reese 's lap , who was sitting next him .
And he just said dreamily .
` Mrs. Reese , will you kindly return me that goose ? '
Mrs. Reese ` returned ' it , as meek as Moses , but she must have been furious , for she had on her new silk dress .
The worst of it is , she was a Methodist . ''
`` But I think that is better than if she was a Presbyterian , '' interjected Susan .
`` If she had been a Presbyterian she would mostly likely have left the church and we can not afford to lose our members .
And Mrs. Reese is not liked in her own church , because she gives herself such great airs , so that the Methodists would be rather pleased that Mr. Meredith spoiled her dress . ''
`` The point is , he made himself ridiculous , and I , for one , do not like to see my minister made ridiculous in the eyes of the Methodists , '' said Miss Cornelia stiffly .
`` If he had had a wife it would not have happened . ''
`` I do not see if he had a dozen wives how they could have prevented Mrs. Drew from using up her tough old gander for the wedding-feast , '' said Susan stubbornly .
`` They say that was her husband 's doing , '' said Miss Cornelia .
`` Jacob Drew is a conceited , stingy , domineering creature . ''
`` And they do say he and his wife detest each other -- which does not seem to me the proper way for married folks to get along .
But then , of course , I have had no experience along that line , '' said Susan , tossing her head .
`` And I am not one to blame everything on the men .
Mrs. Drew is mean enough herself .
They say that the only thing she was ever known to give away was a crock of butter made out of cream a rat had fell into .
She contributed it to a church social .
Nobody found out about the rat until afterwards . ''
`` Fortunately , all the people the Merediths have offended so far are Methodists , '' said Miss Cornelia .
`` That Jerry went to the Methodist prayer-meeting one night about a fortnight ago and sat beside old William Marsh who got up as usual and testified with fearful groans .
` Do you feel any better now ? ''
whispered Jerry when William sat down .
Poor Jerry meant to be sympathetic , but Mr. Marsh thought he was impertinent and is furious at him .
Of course , Jerry had no business to be in a Methodist prayer-meeting at all .
But they go where they like . ''
`` I hope they will not offend Mrs. Alec Davis of the Harbour Head , '' said Susan .
`` She is a very touchy woman , I understand , but she is very well off and pays the most of any one to the salary .
I have heard that she says the Merediths are the worst brought up children she ever saw . ''
`` Every word you say convinces me more and more that the Merediths belong to the race that knows Joseph , '' said Mistress Anne decidedly .
`` When all is said and done , they DO , '' admitted Miss Cornelia .
`` And that balances everything .
Anyway , we 've got them now and we must just do the best we can by them and stick up for them to the Methodists .
Well , I suppose I must be getting down harbour .
Marshall will soon be home -- he went over-harbour to-day -- and wanting his super , man-like .
I 'm sorry I have n't seen the other children .
And where 's the doctor ? ''
`` Up at the Harbour Head .
We 've only been home three days and in that time he has spent three hours in his own bed and eaten two meals in his own house . ''
`` Well , everybody who has been sick for the last six weeks has been waiting for him to come home -- and I do n't blame them .
When that over-harbour doctor married the undertaker 's daughter at Lowbridge people felt suspicious of him .
It did n't look well .
You and the doctor must come down soon and tell us all about your trip .
I suppose you 've had a splendid time . ''
`` We had , '' agreed Anne .
`` It was the fulfilment of years of dreams .
The old world is very lovely and very wonderful .
But we have come back very well satisfied with our own land .
Canada is the finest country in the world , Miss Cornelia . ''
`` Nobody ever doubted that , '' said Miss Cornelia , complacently .
`` And old P.E.I. is the loveliest province in it and Four Winds the loveliest spot in P.E.I. , '' laughed Anne , looking adoringly out over the sunset splendour of glen and harbour and gulf .
She waved her hand at it .
`` I saw nothing more beautiful than that in Europe , Miss Cornelia .
Must you go ?
The children will be sorry to have missed you . ''
`` They must come and see me soon .
Tell them the doughnut jar is always full . ''
`` Oh , at supper they were planning a descent on you .
They 'll go soon ; but they must settle down to school again now .
And the twins are going to take music lessons . ''
`` Not from the Methodist minister 's wife , I hope ? ''
said Miss Cornelia anxiously .
`` No -- from Rosemary West .
I was up last evening to arrange it with her .
What a pretty girl she is ! ''
`` Rosemary holds her own well .
She is n't as young as she once was . ''
`` I thought her very charming .
I 've never had any real acquaintance with her , you know .
Their house is so out of the way , and I 've seldom ever seen her except at church . ''
`` People always have liked Rosemary West , though they do n't understand her , '' said Miss Cornelia , quite unconscious of the high tribute she was paying to Rosemary 's charm .
`` Ellen has always kept her down , so to speak .
She has tyrannized over her , and yet she has always indulged her in a good many ways .
Rosemary was engaged once , you know -- to young Martin Crawford .
His ship was wrecked on the Magdalens and all the crew were drowned .
Rosemary was just a child -- only seventeen .
But she was never the same afterwards .
She and Ellen have stayed very close at home since their mother 's death .
They do n't often get to their own church at Lowbridge and I understand Ellen does n't approve of going too often to a Presbyterian church .
To the Methodist she NEVER goes , I 'll say that much for her .
That family of Wests have always been strong Episcopalians .
Rosemary and Ellen are pretty well off .
Rosemary does n't really need to give music lessons .
She does it because she likes to .
They are distantly related to Leslie , you know .
Are the Fords coming to the harbour this summer ? ''
`` No .
They are going on a trip to Japan and will probably be away for a year .
Owen 's new novel is to have a Japanese setting .
This will be the first summer that the dear old House of Dreams will be empty since we left it . ''
`` I should think Owen Ford might find enough to write about in Canada without dragging his wife and his innocent children off to a heathen country like Japan , '' grumbled Miss Cornelia . ''
The Life Book was the best book he 's ever written and he got the material for that right here in Four Winds . ''
`` Captain Jim gave him the most of that , you know .
And he collected it all over the world .
But Owen 's books are all delightful , I think . ''
`` Oh , they 're well enough as far as they go .
I make it a point to read every one he writes , though I 've always held , Anne dearie , that reading novels is a sinful waste of time .
I shall write and tell him my opinion of this Japanese business , believe ME .
Does he want Kenneth and Persis to be converted into pagans ? ''
With which unanswerable conundrum Miss Cornelia took her departure .
Susan proceeded to put Rilla in bed and Anne sat on the veranda steps under the early stars and dreamed her incorrigible dreams and learned all over again for the hundredth happy time what a moonrise splendour and sheen could be on Four Winds Harbour .
CHAPTER III .
THE INGLESIDE CHILDREN In daytime the Blythe children liked very well to play in the rich , soft greens and glooms of the big maple grove between Ingleside and the Glen St. Mary pond ; but for evening revels there was no place like the little valley behind the maple grove .
It was a fairy realm of romance to them .
Once , looking from the attic windows of Ingleside , through the mist and aftermath of a summer thunderstorm , they had seen the beloved spot arched by a glorious rainbow , one end of which seemed to dip straight down to where a corner of the pond ran up into the lower end of the valley .
`` Let us call it Rainbow Valley , '' said Walter delightedly , and Rainbow Valley thenceforth it was .
Outside of Rainbow Valley the wind might be rollicking and boisterous .
Here it always went gently .
Little , winding , fairy paths ran here and there over spruce roots cushioned with moss .
Wild cherry trees , that in blossom time would be misty white , were scattered all over the valley , mingling with the dark spruces .
A little brook with amber waters ran through it from the Glen village .
The houses of the village were comfortably far away ; only at the upper end of the valley was a little tumble-down , deserted cottage , referred to as `` the old Bailey house . ''
It had not been occupied for many years , but a grass-grown dyke surrounded it and inside was an ancient garden where the Ingleside children could find violets and daisies and June lilies still blooming in season .
For the rest , the garden was overgrown with caraway that swayed and foamed in the moonshine of summer eves like seas of silver .
To the sought lay the pond and beyond it the ripened distance lost itself in purple woods , save where , on a high hill , a solitary old gray homestead looked down on glen and harbour .
There was a certain wild woodsiness and solitude about Rainbow Valley , in spite of its nearness to the village , which endeared it to the children of Ingleside .
The valley was full of dear , friendly hollows and the largest of these was their favourite stamping ground .
Here they were assembled on this particular evening .
There was a grove of young spruces in this hollow , with a tiny , grassy glade in its heart , opening on the bank of the brook .
By the brook grew a silver birch-tree , a young , incredibly straight thing which Walter had named the `` White Lady . ''
In this glade , too , were the `` Tree Lovers , '' as Walter called a spruce and maple which grew so closely together that their boughs were inextricably intertwined .
Jem had hung an old string of sleigh-bells , given him by the Glen blacksmith , on the Tree Lovers , and every visitant breeze called out sudden fairy tinkles from it .
`` How nice it is to be back ! ''
said Nan .
`` After all , none of the Avonlea places are quite as nice as Rainbow Valley . ''
But they were very fond of the Avonlea places for all that .
A visit to Green Gables was always considered a great treat .
Aunt Marilla was very good to them , and so was Mrs. Rachel Lynde , who was spending the leisure of her old age in knitting cotton-warp quilts against the day when Anne 's daughters should need a `` setting-out . ''
There were jolly playmates there , too -- `` Uncle '' Davy 's children and `` Aunt '' Diana 's children .
They knew all the spots their mother had loved so well in her girlhood at old Green Gables -- the long Lover 's Lane , that was pink-hedged in wild-rose time , the always neat yard , with its willows and poplars , the Dryad 's Bubble , lucent and lovely as of yore , the Lake of Shining Waters , and Willowmere .
The twins had their mother 's old porch-gable room , and Aunt Marilla used to come in at night , when she thought they were asleep , to gloat over them .
But they all knew she loved Jem the best .
Jem was at present busily occupied in frying a mess of small trout which he had just caught in the pond .
His stove consisted of a circle of red stones , with a fire kindled in it , and his culinary utensils were an old tin can , hammered out flat , and a fork with only one tine left .
Nevertheless , ripping good meals had before now been thus prepared .
Jem was the child of the House of Dreams .
All the others had been born at Ingleside .
He had curly red hair , like his mother 's , and frank hazel eyes , like his father 's ; he had his mother 's fine nose and his father 's steady , humorous mouth .
And he was the only one of the family who had ears nice enough to please Susan .
But he had a standing feud with Susan because she would not give up calling him Little Jem .
It was outrageous , thought thirteen-year-old Jem .
Mother had more sense .
`` I 'm NOT little any more , Mother , '' he had cried indignantly , on his eighth birthday .
`` I 'm AWFUL big . ''
Mother had sighed and laughed and sighed again ; and she never called him Little Jem again -- in his hearing at least .
He was and always had been a sturdy , reliable little chap .
He never broke a promise .
He was not a great talker .
His teachers did not think him brilliant , but he was a good , all-round student .
He never took things on faith ; he always liked to investigate the truth of a statement for himself .
Once Susan had told him that if he touched his tongue to a frosty latch all the skin would tear off it .
Jem had promptly done it , `` just to see if it was so . ''
He found it was `` so , '' at the cost of a very sore tongue for several days .
But Jem did not grudge suffering in the interests of science .
By constant experiment and observation he learned a great deal and his brothers and sisters thought his extensive knowledge of their little world quite wonderful .
Jem always knew where the first and ripest berries grew , where the first pale violets shyly wakened from their winter 's sleep , and how many blue eggs were in a given robin 's nest in the maple grove .
He could tell fortunes from daisy petals and suck honey from red clovers , and grub up all sorts of edible roots on the banks of the pond , while Susan went in daily fear that they would all be poisoned .
He knew where the finest spruce-gum was to be found , in pale amber knots on the lichened bark , he knew where the nuts grew thickest in the beechwoods around the Harbour Head , and where the best trouting places up the brooks were .
He could mimic the call of any wild bird or beast in Four Winds and he knew the haunt of every wild flower from spring to autumn .
Walter Blythe was sitting under the White Lady , with a volume of poems lying beside him , but he was not reading .
He was gazing now at the emerald-misted willows by the pond , and now at a flock of clouds , like little silver sheep , herded by the wind , that were drifting over Rainbow Valley , with rapture in his wide splendid eyes .
Walter 's eyes were very wonderful .
All the joy and sorrow and laughter and loyalty and aspiration of many generations lying under the sod looked out of their dark gray depths .
Walter was a `` hop out of kin , '' as far as looks went .
He did not resemble any known relative .
He was quite the handsomest of the Ingleside children , with straight black hair and finely modelled features .
But he had all his mother 's vivid imagination and passionate love of beauty .
Frost of winter , invitation of spring , dream of summer and glamour of autumn , all meant much to Walter .
In school , where Jem was a chieftain , Walter was not thought highly of .
He was supposed to be `` girly '' and milk-soppish , because he never fought and seldom joined in the school sports , preferring to herd by himself in out of the way corners and read books -- especially `` po ` try books . ''
Walter loved the poets and pored over their pages from the time he could first read .
Their music was woven into his growing soul -- the music of the immortals .
Walter cherished the ambition to be a poet himself some day .
The thing could be done .
A certain Uncle Paul -- so called out of courtesy -- who lived now in that mysterious realm called `` the States , '' was Walter 's model .
Uncle Paul had once been a little school boy in Avonlea and now his poetry was read everywhere .
But the Glen schoolboys did not know of Walter 's dreams and would not have been greatly impressed if they had .
In spite of his lack of physical prowess , however , he commanded a certain unwilling respect because of his power of `` talking book talk . ''
Nobody in Glen St. Mary school could talk like him .
He `` sounded like a preacher , '' one boy said ; and for this reason he was generally left alone and not persecuted , as most boys were who were suspected of disliking or fearing fisticuffs .
The ten year old Ingleside twins violated twin tradition by not looking in the least alike .
Anne , who was always called Nan , was very pretty , with velvety nut-brown eyes and silky nut-brown hair .
She was a very blithe and dainty little maiden -- Blythe by name and blithe by nature , one of her teachers had said .
Her complexion was quite faultless , much to her mother 's satisfaction .
`` I 'm so glad I have one daughter who can wear pink , '' Mrs. Blythe was wont to say jubilantly .
Diana Blythe , known as Di , was very like her mother , with gray-green eyes that always shone with a peculiar lustre and brilliancy in the dusk , and red hair .
Perhaps this was why she was her father 's favourite .
She and Walter were especial chums ; Di was the only one to whom he would ever read the verses he wrote himself -- the only one who knew that he was secretly hard at work on an epic , strikingly resembling `` Marmion '' in some things , if not in others .
She kept all his secrets , even from Nan , and told him all hers .
`` Wo n't you soon have those fish ready , Jem ? ''
said Nan , sniffing with her dainty nose .
`` The smell makes me awfully hungry . ''
`` They 're nearly ready , '' said Jem , giving one a dexterous turn .
`` Get out the bread and the plates , girls .
Walter , wake up . ''
`` How the air shines to-night , '' said Walter dreamily .
Not that he despised fried trout either , by any means ; but with Walter food for the soul always took first place .
`` The flower angel has been walking over the world to-day , calling to the flowers .
I can see his blue wings on that hill by the woods . ''
`` Any angels ' wings I ever saw were white , '' said Nan .
`` The flower angel 's are n't .
They are a pale misty blue , just like the haze in the valley .
Oh , how I wish I could fly .
It must be glorious . ''
`` One does fly in dreams sometimes , '' said Di .
`` I never dream that I 'm flying exactly , '' said Walter .
`` But I often dream that I just rise up from the ground and float over the fences and the trees .
It 's delightful -- and I always think , ` This IS N'T a dream like it 's always been before .
THIS is real ' -- and then I wake up after all , and it 's heart-breaking . ''
`` Hurry up , Nan , '' ordered Jem .
Nan had produced the banquet-board -- a board literally as well as figuratively -- from which many a feast , seasoned as no viands were elsewhere , had been eaten in Rainbow Valley .
It was converted into a table by propping it on two large , mossy stones .
Newspapers served as tablecloth , and broken plates and handleless cups from Susan 's discard furnished the dishes .
From a tin box secreted at the root of a spruce tree Nan brought forth bread and salt .
The brook gave Adam 's ale of unsurpassed crystal .
For the rest , there was a certain sauce , compounded of fresh air and appetite of youth , which gave to everything a divine flavour .
To sit in Rainbow Valley , steeped in a twilight half gold , half amethyst , rife with the odours of balsam-fir and woodsy growing things in their springtime prime , with the pale stars of wild strawberry blossoms all around you , and with the sough of the wind and tinkle of bells in the shaking tree tops , and eat fried trout and dry bread , was something which the mighty of earth might have envied them .
`` Sit in , '' invited Nan , as Jem placed his sizzling tin platter of trout on the table .
`` It 's your turn to say grace , Jem . ''
`` I 've done my part frying the trout , '' protested Jem , who hated saying grace .
`` Let Walter say it .
He LIKES saying grace .
And cut it short , too , Walt .
I 'm starving . ''
But Walter said no grace , short or long , just then .
An interruption occurred .
`` Who 's coming down from the manse hill ? ''
said Di .
CHAPTER IV .
THE MANSE CHILDREN Aunt Martha might be , and was , a very poor housekeeper ; the Rev. John Knox Meredith might be , and was , a very absent-minded , indulgent man .
But it could not be denied that there was something very homelike and lovable about the Glen St. Mary manse in spite of its untidiness .
Even the critical housewives of the Glen felt it , and were unconsciously mellowed in judgment because of it .
Perhaps its charm was in part due to accidental circumstances -- the luxuriant vines clustering over its gray , clap-boarded walls , the friendly acacias and balm-of-gileads that crowded about it with the freedom of old acquaintance , and the beautiful views of harbour and sand-dunes from its front windows .
But these things had been there in the reign of Mr. Meredith 's predecessor , when the manse had been the primmest , neatest , and dreariest house in the Glen .
So much of the credit must be given to the personality of its new inmates .
There was an atmosphere of laughter and comradeship about it ; the doors were always open ; and inner and outer worlds joined hands .
Love was the only law in Glen St. Mary manse .
The people of his congregation said that Mr. Meredith spoiled his children .
Very likely he did .
It is certain that he could not bear to scold them .
`` They have no mother , '' he used to say to himself , with a sigh , when some unusually glaring peccadillo forced itself upon his notice .
But he did not know the half of their goings-on .
He belonged to the sect of dreamers .
The windows of his study looked out on the graveyard but , as he paced up and down the room , reflecting deeply on the immortality of the soul , he was quite unaware that Jerry and Carl were playing leap-frog hilariously over the flat stones in that abode of dead Methodists .
Mr. Meredith had occasional acute realizations that his children were not so well looked after , physically or morally , as they had been before his wife died , and he had always a dim sub-consciousness that house and meals were very different under Aunt Martha 's management from what they had been under Cecilia 's .
For the rest , he lived in a world of books and abstractions ; and , therefore , although his clothes were seldom brushed , and although the Glen housewives concluded , from the ivory-like pallor of his clear-cut features and slender hands , that he never got enough to eat , he was not an unhappy man .
If ever a graveyard could be called a cheerful place , the old Methodist graveyard at Glen St. Mary might be so called .
The new graveyard , at the other side of the Methodist church , was a neat and proper and doleful spot ; but the old one had been left so long to Nature 's kindly and gracious ministries that it had become very pleasant .
It was surrounded on three sides by a dyke of stones and sod , topped by a gray and uncertain paling .
Outside the dyke grew a row of tall fir trees with thick , balsamic boughs .
The dyke , which had been built by the first settlers of the Glen , was old enough to be beautiful , with mosses and green things growing out of its crevices , violets purpling at its base in the early spring days , and asters and golden-rod making an autumnal glory in its corners .
Little ferns clustered companionably between its stones , and here and there a big bracken grew .
On the eastern side there was neither fence nor dyke .
The graveyard there straggled off into a young fir plantation , ever pushing nearer to the graves and deepening eastward into a thick wood .
The air was always full of the harp-like voices of the sea , and the music of gray old trees , and in the spring mornings the choruses of birds in the elms around the two churches sang of life and not of death .
The Meredith children loved the old graveyard .
Blue-eyed ivy , `` garden-spruce , '' and mint ran riot over the sunken graves .
Blueberry bushes grew lavishly in the sandy corner next to the fir wood .
The varying fashions of tombstones for three generations were to be found there , from the flat , oblong , red sandstone slabs of old settlers , down through the days of weeping willows and clasped hands , to the latest monstrosities of tall `` monuments '' and draped urns .
One of the latter , the biggest and ugliest in the graveyard , was sacred to the memory of a certain Alec Davis who had been born a Methodist but had taken to himself a Presbyterian bride of the Douglas clan .
She had made him turn Presbyterian and kept him toeing the Presbyterian mark all his life .
But when he died she did not dare to doom him to a lonely grave in the Presbyterian graveyard over-harbour .
His people were all buried in the Methodist cemetery ; so Alec Davis went back to his own in death and his widow consoled herself by erecting a monument which cost more than any of the Methodists could afford .
The Meredith children hated it , without just knowing why , but they loved the old , flat , bench-like stones with the tall grasses growing rankly about them .
They made jolly seats for one thing .
They were all sitting on one now .
Jerry , tired of leap frog , was playing on a jew 's - harp .
Carl was lovingly poring over a strange beetle he had found ; Una was trying to make a doll 's dress , and Faith , leaning back on her slender brown wrists , was swinging her bare feet in lively time to the jew 's - harp .
Jerry had his father 's black hair and large black eyes , but in him the latter were flashing instead of dreamy .
Faith , who came next to him , wore her beauty like a rose , careless and glowing .
She had golden-brown eyes , golden-brown curls and crimson cheeks .
She laughed too much to please her father 's congregation and had shocked old Mrs. Taylor , the disconsolate spouse of several departed husbands , by saucily declaring -- in the church-porch at that -- `` The world IS N'T a vale of tears , Mrs. Taylor .
It 's a world of laughter . ''
Little dreamy Una was not given to laughter .
Her braids of straight , dead-black hair betrayed no lawless kinks , and her almond-shaped , dark-blue eyes had something wistful and sorrowful in them .
Her mouth had a trick of falling open over her tiny white teeth , and a shy , meditative smile occasionally crept over her small face .
She was much more sensitive to public opinion than Faith , and had an uneasy consciousness that there was something askew in their way of living .
She longed to put it right , but did not know how .
Now and then she dusted the furniture -- but it was so seldom she could find the duster because it was never in the same place twice .
And when the clothes-brush was to be found she tried to brush her father 's best suit on Saturdays , and once sewed on a missing button with coarse white thread .
When Mr. Meredith went to church next day every female eye saw that button and the peace of the Ladies ' Aid was upset for weeks .
Carl had the clear , bright , dark-blue eyes , fearless and direct , of his dead mother , and her brown hair with its glints of gold .
He knew the secrets of bugs and had a sort of freemasonry with bees and beetles .
Una never liked to sit near him because she never knew what uncanny creature might be secreted about him .
Jerry refused to sleep with him because Carl had once taken a young garter snake to bed with him ; so Carl slept in his old cot , which was so short that he could never stretch out , and had strange bed-fellows .
Perhaps it was just as well that Aunt Martha was half blind when she made that bed .
Altogether they were a jolly , lovable little crew , and Cecilia Meredith 's heart must have ached bitterly when she faced the knowledge that she must leave them .
`` Where would you like to be buried if you were a Methodist ? ''
asked Faith cheerfully .
This opened up an interesting field of speculation .
`` There is n't much choice .
The place is full , '' said Jerry .
`` I 'D like that corner near the road , I guess .
I could hear the teams going past and the people talking . ''
`` I 'd like that little hollow under the weeping birch , '' said Una .
`` That birch is such a place for birds and they sing like mad in the mornings . ''
`` I 'd take the Porter lot where there 's so many children buried .
I like lots of company , '' said Faith .
`` Carl , where 'd you ? ''
`` I 'd rather not be buried at all , '' said Carl , `` but if I had to be I 'd like the ant-bed .
Ants are AWF ` LY int ` resting . ''
`` How very good all the people who are buried here must have been , '' said Una , who had been reading the laudatory old epitaphs .
`` There does n't seem to be a single bad person in the whole graveyard .
Methodists must be better than Presbyterians after all . ''
`` Maybe the Methodists bury their bad people just like they do cats , '' suggested Carl .
`` Maybe they do n't bother bringing them to the graveyard at all . ''
`` Nonsense , '' said Faith .
`` The people that are buried here were n't any better than other folks , Una .
But when anyone is dead you must n't say anything of him but good or he 'll come back and ha ` nt you .
Aunt Martha told me that .
I asked father if it was true and he just looked through me and muttered , ` True ?
True ?
What is truth ?
What IS truth , O jesting Pilate ? '
I concluded from that it must be true . ''
`` I wonder if Mr. Alec Davis would come back and ha ` nt me if I threw a stone at the urn on top of his tombstone , '' said Jerry .
`` Mrs. Davis would , '' giggled Faith .
`` She just watches us in church like a cat watching mice .
Last Sunday I made a face at her nephew and he made one back at me and you should have seen her glare .
I 'll bet she boxed HIS ears when they got out .
Mrs. Marshall Elliott told me we must n't offend her on any account or I 'd have made a face at her , too ! ''
`` They say Jem Blythe stuck out his tongue at her once and she would never have his father again , even when her husband was dying , '' said Jerry .
`` I wonder what the Blythe gang will be like . ''
`` I liked their looks , '' said Faith .
The manse children had been at the station that afternoon when the Blythe small fry had arrived .
`` I liked Jem 's looks ESPECIALLY . ''
`` They say in school that Walter 's a sissy , '' said Jerry .
`` I do n't believe it , '' said Una , who had thought Walter very handsome .
`` Well , he writes poetry , anyhow .
He won the prize the teacher offered last year for writing a poem , Bertie Shakespeare Drew told me .
Bertie 's mother thought HE should have got the prize because of his name , but Bertie said he could n't write poetry to save his soul , name or no name . ''
`` I suppose we 'll get acquainted with them as soon as they begin going to school , '' mused Faith .
`` I hope the girls are nice .
I do n't like most of the girls round here .
Even the nice ones are poky .
But the Blythe twins look jolly .
I thought twins always looked alike , but they do n't .
I think the red-haired one is the nicest . ''
`` I liked their mother 's looks , '' said Una with a little sigh .
Una envied all children their mothers .
She had been only six when her mother died , but she had some very precious memories , treasured in her soul like jewels , of twilight cuddlings and morning frolics , of loving eyes , a tender voice , and the sweetest , gayest laugh .
`` They say she is n't like other people , '' said Jerry .
`` Mrs. Elliot says that is because she never really grew up , '' said Faith .
`` She 's taller than Mrs. Elliott . ''
`` Yes , yes , but it is inside -- Mrs. Elliot says Mrs. Blythe just stayed a little girl inside . ''
`` What do I smell ? ''
interrupted Carl , sniffing .
They all smelled it now .
A most delectable odour came floating up on the still evening air from the direction of the little woodsy dell below the manse hill .
`` That makes me hungry , '' said Jerry .
`` We had only bread and molasses for supper and cold ditto for dinner , '' said Una plaintively .
Aunt Martha 's habit was to boil a large slab of mutton early in the week and serve it up every day , cold and greasy , as long as it lasted .
To this Faith , in a moment of inspiration , had give the name of `` ditto '' , and by this it was invariably known at the manse .
`` Let 's go and see where that smell is coming from , '' said Jerry .
They all sprang up , frolicked over the lawn with the abandon of young puppies , climbed a fence , and tore down the mossy slope , guided by the savory lure that ever grew stronger .
A few minutes later they arrived breathlessly in the sanctum sanctorum of Rainbow Valley where the Blythe children were just about to give thanks and eat .
They halted shyly .
Una wished they had not been so precipitate : but Di Blythe was equal to that and any occasion .
She stepped forward , with a comrade 's smile .
`` I guess I know who you are , '' she said .
`` You belong to the manse , do n't you ? ''
Faith nodded , her face creased by dimples .
`` We smelled your trout cooking and wondered what it was . ''
`` You must sit down and help us eat them , '' said Di .
`` Maybe you have n't more than you want yourselves , '' said Jerry , looking hungrily at the tin platter .
`` We 've heaps -- three apiece , '' said Jem .
`` Sit down . ''
No more ceremony was necessary .
Down they all sat on mossy stones .
Merry was that feast and long .
Nan and Di would probably have died of horror had they known what Faith and Una knew perfectly well -- that Carl had two young mice in his jacket pocket .
But they never knew it , so it never hurt them .
Where can folks get better acquainted than over a meal table ?
When the last trout had vanished , the manse children and the Ingleside children were sworn friends and allies .
They had always known each other and always would .
The race of Joseph recognized its own .
They poured out the history of their little pasts .
The manse children heard of Avonlea and Green Gables , of Rainbow Valley traditions , and of the little house by the harbour shore where Jem had been born .
The Ingleside children heard of Maywater , where the Merediths had lived before coming to the Glen , of Una 's beloved , one-eyed doll and Faith 's pet rooster .
Faith was inclined to resent the fact that people laughed at her for petting a rooster .
She liked the Blythes because they accepted it without question .
`` A handsome rooster like Adam is just as nice a pet as a dog or cat , I think , '' she said .
`` If he was a canary nobody would wonder .
And I brought him up from a little , wee , yellow chicken .
Mrs. Johnson at Maywater gave him to me .
A weasel had killed all his brothers and sisters .
I called him after her husband .
I never liked dolls or cats .
Cats are too sneaky and dolls are DEAD . ''
`` Who lives in that house away up there ? ''
asked Jerry .
`` The Miss Wests -- Rosemary and Ellen , '' answered Nan .
`` Di and I are going to take music lessons from Miss Rosemary this summer . ''
Una gazed at the lucky twins with eyes whose longing was too gentle for envy .
Oh , if she could only have music lessons !
It was one of the dreams of her little hidden life .
But nobody ever thought of such a thing .
`` Miss Rosemary is so sweet and she always dresses so pretty , '' said Di .
`` Her hair is just the colour of new molasses taffy , '' she added wistfully -- for Di , like her mother before her , was not resigned to her own ruddy tresses .
`` I like Miss Ellen , too , '' said Nan .
`` She always used to give me candies when she came to church .
But Di is afraid of her . ''
`` Her brows are so black and she has such a great deep voice , '' said Di .
`` Oh , how scared of her Kenneth Ford used to be when he was little !
Mother says the first Sunday Mrs. Ford brought him to church Miss Ellen happened to be there , sitting right behind them .
And the minute Kenneth saw her he just screamed and screamed until Mrs. Ford had to carry him out . ''
`` Who is Mrs. Ford ? ''
asked Una wonderingly .
`` Oh , the Fords do n't live here .
They only come here in the summer .
And they 're not coming this summer .
They live in that little house ` way , ` way down on the harbour shore where father and mother used to lie .
I wish you could see Persis Ford .
She is just like a picture . ''
`` I 've heard of Mrs. Ford , '' broke in Faith .
`` Bertie Shakespeare Drew told me about her .
She was married fourteen years to a dead man and then he came to life . ''
`` Nonsense , '' said Nan .
`` That is n't the way it goes at all .
Bertie Shakespeare can never get anything straight .
I know the whole story and I 'll tell it to you some time , but not now , for it 's too long and it 's time for us to go home .
Mother does n't like us to be out late these damp evenings . ''
Nobody cared whether the manse children were out in the damp or not .
Aunt Martha was already in bed and the minister was still too deeply lost in speculations concerning the immortality of the soul to remember the mortality of the body .
But they went home , too , with visions of good times coming in their heads .
`` I think Rainbow Valley is even nicer than the graveyard , '' said Una .
`` And I just love those dear Blythes .
It 's SO nice when you can love people because so often you CA N'T .
Father said in his sermon last Sunday that we should love everybody .
But how can we ?
How could we love Mrs. Alec Davis ? ''
`` Oh , father only said that in the pulpit , '' said Faith airily .
`` He has more sense than to really think it outside . ''
The Blythe children went up to Ingleside , except Jem , who slipped away for a few moments on a solitary expedition to a remote corner of Rainbow Valley .
Mayflowers grew there and Jem never forgot to take his mother a bouquet as long as they lasted .
CHAPTER V .
THE ADVENT OF MARY VANCE `` This is just the sort of day you feel as if things might happen , '' said Faith , responsive to the lure of crystal air and blue hills .
She hugged herself with delight and danced a hornpipe on old Hezekiah Pollock 's bench tombstone , much to the horror of two ancient maidens who happened to be driving past just as Faith hopped on one foot around the stone , waving the other and her arms in the air .
`` And that , '' groaned one ancient maiden , `` is our minister 's daughter . ''
`` What else could you expect of a widower 's family ? ''
groaned the other ancient maiden .
And then they both shook their heads .
It was early on Saturday morning and the Merediths were out in the dew-drenched world with a delightful consciousness of the holiday .
They had never had anything to do on a holiday .
Even Nan and Di Blythe had certain household tasks for Saturday mornings , but the daughters of the manse were free to roam from blushing morn to dewy eve if so it pleased them .
It DID please Faith , but Una felt a secret , bitter humiliation because they never learned to do anything .
The other girls in her class at school could cook and sew and knit ; she only was a little ignoramus .
Jerry suggested that they go exploring ; so they went lingeringly through the fir grove , picking up Carl on the way , who was on his knees in the dripping grass studying his darling ants .
Beyond the grove they came out in Mr. Taylor 's pasture field , sprinkled over with the white ghosts of dandelions ; in a remote corner was an old tumbledown barn , where Mr. Taylor sometimes stored his surplus hay crop but which was never used for any other purpose .
Thither the Meredith children trooped , and prowled about the ground floor for several minutes .
`` What was that ? ''
whispered Una suddenly .
They all listened .
There was a faint but distinct rustle in the hayloft above .
The Merediths looked at each other .
`` There 's something up there , '' breathed Faith .
`` I 'm going up to see what it is , '' said Jerry resolutely .
`` Oh , do n't , '' begged Una , catching his arm .
`` I 'm going . ''
`` We 'll all go , too , then , '' said Faith .
The whole four climbed the shaky ladder , Jerry and Faith quite dauntless , Una pale from fright , and Carl rather absent-mindedly speculating on the possibility of finding a bat up in the loft .
He longed to see a bat in daylight .
When they stepped off the ladder they saw what had made the rustle and the sight struck them dumb for a few moments .
In a little nest in the hay a girl was curled up , looking as if she had just wakened from sleep .
When she saw them she stood up , rather shakily , as it seemed , and in the bright sunlight that streamed through the cobwebbed window behind her , they saw that her thin , sunburned face was very pale under its tan .
She had two braids of lank , thick , tow-coloured hair and very odd eyes -- `` white eyes , '' the manse children thought , as she stared at them half defiantly , half piteously .
They were really of so pale a blue that they did seem almost white , especially when contrasted with the narrow black ring that circled the iris .
She was barefooted and bareheaded , and was clad in a faded , ragged , old plaid dress , much too short and tight for her .
As for years , she might have been almost any age , judging from her wizened little face , but her height seemed to be somewhere in the neighbourhood of twelve .
`` Who are you ? ''
asked Jerry .
The girl looked about her as if seeking a way of escape .
Then she seemed to give in with a little shiver of despair .
`` I 'm Mary Vance , '' she said .
`` Where 'd you come from ? ''
pursued Jerry .
Mary , instead of replying , suddenly sat , or fell , down on the hay and began to cry .
Instantly Faith had flung herself down beside her and put her arm around the thin , shaking shoulders .
`` You stop bothering her , '' she commanded Jerry .
Then she hugged the waif .
`` Do n't cry , dear .
Just tell us what 's the matter .
WE 'RE friends . ''
`` I 'm so -- so -- hungry , '' wailed Mary .
`` I -- I hai n't had a thing to eat since Thursday morning , ` cept a little water from the brook out there . ''
The manse children gazed at each other in horror .
Faith sprang up .
`` You come right up to the manse and get something to eat before you say another word . ''
Mary shrank .
`` Oh -- I ca n't .
What will your pa and ma say ?
Besides , they 'd send me back . ''
`` We 've no mother , and father wo n't bother about you .
Neither will Aunt Martha .
Come , I say . ''
Faith stamped her foot impatiently .
Was this queer girl going to insist on starving to death almost at their very door ?
Mary yielded .
She was so weak that she could hardly climb down the ladder , but somehow they got her down and over the field and into the manse kitchen .
Aunt Martha , muddling through her Saturday cooking , took no notice of her .
Faith and Una flew to the pantry and ransacked it for such eatables as it contained -- some `` ditto , '' bread , butter , milk and a doubtful pie .
Mary Vance attacked the food ravenously and uncritically , while the manse children stood around and watched her .
Jerry noticed that she had a pretty mouth and very nice , even , white teeth .
Faith decided , with secret horror , that Mary had not one stitch on her except that ragged , faded dress .
Una was full of pure pity , Carl of amused wonder , and all of them of curiosity .
`` Now come out to the graveyard and tell us about yourself , '' ordered Faith , when Mary 's appetite showed signs of failing her .
Mary was now nothing loath .
Food had restored her natural vivacity and unloosed her by no means reluctant tongue .
`` You wo n't tell your pa or anybody if I tell you ? ''
she stipulated , when she was enthroned on Mr. Pollock 's tombstone .
Opposite her the manse children lined up on another .
Here was spice and mystery and adventure .
Something HAD happened .
`` No , we wo n't . ''
`` Cross your hearts ? ''
`` Cross our hearts . ''
`` Well , I 've run away .
I was living with Mrs. Wiley over-harbour .
Do you know Mrs. Wiley ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Well , you do n't want to know her .
She 's an awful woman .
My , how I hate her !
She worked me to death and would n't give me half enough to eat , and she used to larrup me ` most every day .
Look a-here . ''
Mary rolled up her ragged sleeves , and held up her scrawny arms and thin hands , chapped almost to rawness .
They were black with bruises .
The manse children shivered .
Faith flushed crimson with indignation .
Una 's blue eyes filled with tears .
`` She licked me Wednesday night with a stick , '' said Mary , indifferently .
`` It was 'cause I let the cow kick over a pail of milk .
How 'd I know the darn old cow was going to kick ? ''
A not unpleasant thrill ran over her listeners .
They would never dream of using such dubious words , but it was rather titivating to hear someone else use them -- and a girl , at that .
Certainly this Mary Vance was an interesting creature .
`` I do n't blame you for running away , '' said Faith .
`` Oh , I did n't run away 'cause she licked me .
A licking was all in the day 's work with me .
I was darn well used to it .
Nope , I 'd meant to run away for a week 'cause I 'd found out that Mrs. Wiley was going to rent her farm and go to Lowbridge to live and give me to a cousin of hers up Charlottetown way .
I was n't going to stand for THAT .
She was a worse sort than Mrs. Wiley even .
Mrs. Wiley lent me to her for a month last summer and I 'd rather live with the devil himself . ''
Sensation number two .
But Una looked doubtful .
`` So I made up my mind I 'd beat it .
I had seventy cents saved up that Mrs. John Crawford give me in the spring for planting potatoes for her .
Mrs. Wiley did n't know about it .
She was away visiting her cousin when I planted them .
I thought I 'd sneak up here to the Glen and buy a ticket to Charlottetown and try to get work there .
I 'm a hustler , let me tell you .
There ai n't a lazy bone in MY body .
So I lit out Thursday morning ` fore Mrs. Wiley was up and walked to the Glen -- six miles .
And when I got to the station I found I 'd lost my money .
Dunno how -- dunno where .
Anyhow , it was gone .
I did n't know what to do .
If I went back to old Lady Wiley she 'd take the hide off me .
So I went and hid in that old barn . ''
`` And what will you do now ? ''
asked Jerry .
`` Dunno .
I s ` pose I 'll have to go back and take my medicine .
Now that I 've got some grub in my stomach I guess I can stand it . ''
But there was fear behind the bravado in Mary 's eyes .
Una suddenly slipped from the one tombstone to the other and put her arm about Mary .
`` Do n't go back .
Just stay here with us . ''
`` Oh , Mrs. Wiley 'll hunt me up , '' said Mary .
`` It 's likely she 's on my trail before this .
I might stay here till she finds me , I s ` pose , if your folks do n't mind .
I was a darn fool ever to think of skipping out .
She 'd run a weasel to earth .
But I was so misrebul . ''
Mary 's voice quivered , but she was ashamed of showing her weakness .
`` I hai n't had the life of a dog for these four years , '' she explained defiantly .
`` You 've been four years with Mrs. Wiley ? ''
`` Yip .
She took me out of the asylum over in Hopetown when I was eight . ''
`` That 's the same place Mrs. Blythe came from , '' exclaimed Faith .
`` I was two years in the asylum .
I was put there when I was six .
My ma had hung herself and my pa had cut his throat . ''
`` Holy cats !
Why ? ''
said Jerry .
`` Booze , '' said Mary laconically .
`` And you 've no relations ? ''
`` Not a darn one that I know of .
Must have had some once , though .
I was called after half a dozen of them .
My full name is Mary Martha Lucilla Moore Ball Vance .
Can you beat that ?
My grandfather was a rich man .
I 'll bet he was richer than YOUR grandfather .
But pa drunk it all up and ma , she did her part .
THEY used to beat me , too .
Laws , I 've been licked so much I kind of like it . ''
Mary tossed her head .
She divined that the manse children were pitying her for her many stripes and she did not want pity .
She wanted to be envied .
She looked gaily about her .
Her strange eyes , now that the dullness of famine was removed from them , were brilliant .
She would show these youngsters what a personage she was .
`` I 've been sick an awful lot , '' she said proudly .
`` There 's not many kids could have come through what I have .
I 've had scarlet fever and measles and ersipelas and mumps and whooping cough and pewmonia . ''
`` Were you ever fatally sick ? ''
asked Una .
`` I do n't know , '' said Mary doubtfully .
`` Of course she was n't , '' scoffed Jerry .
`` If you 're fatally sick you die . ''
`` Oh , well , I never died exactly , '' said Mary , `` but I come blamed near it once .
They thought I was dead and they were getting ready to lay me out when I up and come to . ''
`` What is it like to be half dead ? ''
asked Jerry curiously .
`` Like nothing .
I did n't know it for days afterwards .
It was when I had the pewmonia .
Mrs. Wiley would n't have the doctor -- said she was n't going to no such expense for a home girl .
Old Aunt Christina MacAllister nursed me with poultices .
She brung me round .
But sometimes I wish I 'd just died the other half and done with it .
I 'd been better off . ''
`` If you went to heaven I s ` pose you would , '' said Faith , rather doubtfully .
`` Well , what other place is there to go to ? ''
demanded Mary in a puzzled voice .
`` There 's hell , you know , '' said Una , dropping her voice and hugging Mary to lessen the awfulness of the suggestion .
`` Hell ?
What 's that ? ''
`` Why , it 's where the devil lives , '' said Jerry .
`` You 've heard of him -- you spoke about him . ''
`` Oh , yes , but I did n't know he lived anywhere .
I thought he just roamed round .
Mr. Wiley used to mention hell when he was alive .
He was always telling folks to go there .
I thought it was some place over in New Brunswick where he come from . ''
`` Hell is an awful place , '' said Faith , with the dramatic enjoyment that is born of telling dreadful things .
`` Bad people go there when they die and burn in fire for ever and ever and ever . ''
`` Who told you that ? ''
demanded Mary incredulously .
`` It 's in the Bible .
And Mr. Isaac Crothers at Maywater told us , too , in Sunday School .
He was an elder and a pillar in the church and knew all about it .
But you need n't worry .
If you 're good you 'll go to heaven and if you 're bad I guess you 'd rather go to hell . ''
`` I would n't , '' said Mary positively .
`` No matter how bad I was I would n't want to be burned and burned .
I know what it 's like .
I picked up a red hot poker once by accident .
What must you do to be good ? ''
`` You must go to church and Sunday School and read your Bible and pray every night and give to missions , '' said Una .
`` It sounds like a large order , '' said Mary .
`` Anything else ? ''
`` You must ask God to forgive the sins you 've committed .
`` But I 've never com -- committed any , '' said Mary .
`` What 's a sin any way ? ''
`` Oh , Mary , you must have .
Everybody does .
Did you never tell a lie ? ''
`` Heaps of 'em , '' said Mary .
`` That 's a dreadful sin , '' said Una solemnly .
`` Do you mean to tell me , '' demanded Mary , `` that I 'd be sent to hell for telling a lie now and then ?
Why , I HAD to .
Mr. Wiley would have broken every bone in my body one time if I had n't told him a lie .
Lies have saved me many a whack , I can tell you . ''
Una sighed .
Here were too many difficulties for her to solve .
She shuddered as she thought of being cruelly whipped .
Very likely she would have lied too .
She squeezed Mary 's little calloused hand .
`` Is that the only dress you 've got ? ''
asked Faith , whose joyous nature refused to dwell on disagreeable subjects .
`` I just put on this dress because it was no good , '' cried Mary flushing .
`` Mrs. Wiley 'd bought my clothes and I was n't going to be beholden to her for anything .
And I 'm honest .
If I was going to run away I was n't going to take what belong to HER that was worth anything .
When I grow up I 'm going to have a blue sating dress .
Your own clothes do n't look so stylish .
I thought ministers ' children were always dressed up . ''
It was plain that Mary had a temper and was sensitive on some points .
But there was a queer , wild charm about her which captivated them all .
She was taken to Rainbow Valley that afternoon and introduced to the Blythes as `` a friend of ours from over-harbour who is visiting us . ''
The Blythes accepted her unquestioningly , perhaps because she was fairly respectable now .
After dinner -- through which Aunt Martha had mumbled and Mr. Meredith had been in a state of semi-unconsciousness while brooding his Sunday sermon -- Faith had prevailed on Mary to put on one of her dresses , as well as certain other articles of clothing .
With her hair neatly braided Mary passed muster tolerably well .
She was an acceptable playmate , for she knew several new and exciting games , and her conversation lacked not spice .
In fact , some of her expressions made Nan and Di look at her rather askance .
They were not quite sure what their mother would have thought of her , but they knew quite well what Susan would .
However , she was a visitor at the manse , so she must be all right .
When bedtime came there was the problem of where Mary should sleep .
`` We ca n't put her in the spare room , you know , '' said Faith perplexedly to Una .
`` I have n't got anything in my head , '' cried Mary in an injured tone .
`` Oh , I did n't mean THAT , '' protested Faith .
`` The spare room is all torn up .
The mice have gnawed a big hole in the feather tick and made a nest in it .
We never found it out till Aunt Martha put the Rev. Mr. Fisher from Charlottetown there to sleep last week .
HE soon found it out .
Then father had to give him his bed and sleep on the study lounge .
Aunt Martha has n't had time to fix the spare room bed up yet , so she says ; so NOBODY can sleep there , no matter how clean their heads are .
And our room is so small , and the bed so small you ca n't sleep with us . ''
`` I can go back to the hay in the old barn for the night if you 'll lend me a quilt , '' said Mary philosophically .
`` It was kind of chilly last night , but ` cept for that I 've had worse beds . ''
`` Oh , no , no , you must n't do that , '' said Una .
`` I 've thought of a plan , Faith .
You know that little trestle bed in the garret room , with the old mattress on it , that the last minister left there ?
Let 's take up the spare room bedclothes and make Mary a bed there .
You wo n't mind sleeping in the garret , will you , Mary ?
It 's just above our room . ''
`` Any place 'll do me .
Laws , I never had a decent place to sleep in my life .
I slept in the loft over the kitchen at Mrs. Wiley 's .
The roof leaked rain in the summer and the snow druv in in winter .
My bed was a straw tick on the floor .
You wo n't find me a mite huffy about where I sleep . ''
The manse garret was a long , low , shadowy place , with one gable end partitioned off .
Here a bed was made up for Mary of the dainty hemstitched sheets and embroidered spread which Cecilia Meredith had once so proudly made for her spare-room , and which still survived Aunt Martha 's uncertain washings .
The good nights were said and silence fell over the manse .
Una was just falling asleep when she heard a sound in the room just above that made her sit up suddenly .
`` Listen , Faith -- Mary 's crying , '' she whispered .
Faith replied not , being already asleep .
Una slipped out of bed , and made her way in her little white gown down the hall and up the garret stairs .
The creaking floor gave ample notice of her coming , and when she reached the corner room all was moonlit silence and the trestle bed showed only a hump in the middle .
`` Mary , '' whispered Una .
There was no response .
Una crept close to the bed and pulled at the spread .
`` Mary , I know you are crying .
I heard you .
Are you lonesome ? ''
Mary suddenly appeared to view but said nothing .
`` Let me in beside you .
I 'm cold , '' said Una shivering in the chilly air , for the little garret window was open and the keen breath of the north shore at night blew in .
Mary moved over and Una snuggled down beside her .
`` NOW you wo n't be lonesome .
We should n't have left you here alone the first night . ''
`` I was n't lonesome , '' sniffed Mary .
`` What were you crying for then ? ''
`` Oh , I just got to thinking of things when I was here alone .
I thought of having to go back to Mrs. Wiley -- and of being licked for running away -- and -- and -- and of going to hell for telling lies .
It all worried me something scandalous . ''
`` Oh , Mary , '' said poor Una in distress .
`` I do n't believe God will send you to hell for telling lies when you did n't know it was wrong .
He COULD N'T .
Why , He 's kind and good .
Of course , you must n't tell any more now that you know it 's wrong . ''
`` If I ca n't tell lies what 's to become of me ? ''
said Mary with a sob .
`` YOU do n't understand .
You do n't know anything about it .
You 've got a home and a kind father -- though it does seem to me that he is n't more 'n about half there .
But anyway he does n't lick you , and you get enough to eat such as it is -- though that old aunt of yours does n't know ANYTHING about cooking .
Why , this is the first day I ever remember of feeling ` sif I 'd enough to eat .
I 've been knocked about all of my life , ` cept for the two years I was at the asylum .
They did n't lick me there and it was n't too bad , though the matron was cross .
She always looked ready to bite my head off a nail .
But Mrs. Wiley is a holy terror , that 's what SHE is , and I 'm just scared stiff when I think of going back to her . ''
`` Perhaps you wo n't have to .
Perhaps we 'll be able to think of a way out .
Let 's both ask God to keep you from having to go back to Mrs. Wiley .
You say your prayers , do n't you Mary ? ''
`` Oh , yes , I always go over an old rhyme ` fore I get into bed , '' said Mary indifferently .
`` I never thought of asking for anything in particular though .
Nobody in this world ever bothered themselves about me so I did n't s ` pose God would .
He MIGHT take more trouble for you , seeing you 're a minister 's daughter . ''
`` He 'd take every bit as much trouble for you , Mary , I 'm sure , '' said Una .
`` It does n't matter whose child you are .
You just ask Him -- and I will , too . ''
`` All right , '' agreed Mary .
`` It wo n't do any harm if it does n't do much good .
If you knew Mrs. Wiley as well as I do you would n't think God would want to meddle with her .
Anyhow , I wo n't cry any more about it .
This is a big sight better 'n last night down in that old barn , with the mice running about .
Look at the Four Winds light .
Ai n't it pretty ? ''
`` This is the only window we can see it from , '' said Una .
`` I love to watch it . ''
`` Do you ?
So do I. I could see it from the Wiley loft and it was the only comfort I had .
When I was all sore from being licked I 'd watch it and forget about the places that hurt .
I 'd think of the ships sailing away and away from it and wish I was on one of them sailing far away too -- away from everything .
On winter nights when it did n't shine , I just felt real lonesome .
Say , Una , what makes all you folks so kind to me when I 'm just a stranger ? ''
`` Because it 's right to be .
The bible tells us to be kind to everybody . ''
`` Does it ?
Well , I guess most folks do n't mind it much then .
I never remember of any one being kind to me before -- true 's you live I do n't .
Say , Una , ai n't them shadows on the walls pretty ?
They look just like a flock of little dancing birds .
And say , Una , I like all you folks and them Blythe boys and Di , but I do n't like that Nan .
She 's a proud one . ''
`` Oh , no , Mary , she is n't a bit proud , '' said Una eagerly .
`` Not a single bit . ''
`` Do n't tell me .
Any one that holds her head like that IS proud .
I do n't like her . ''
`` WE all like her very much . ''
`` Oh , I s ` pose you like her better 'n me ? ''
said Mary jealously .
`` Do you ? ''
`` Why , Mary -- we 've known her for weeks and we 've only known you a few hours , '' stammered Una .
`` So you do like her better then ? ''
said Mary in a rage .
`` All right !
Like her all you want to .
I do n't care .
I can get along without you . ''
She flung herself over against the wall of the garret with a slam .
`` Oh , Mary , '' said Una , pushing a tender arm over Mary 's uncompromising back , `` do n't talk like that .
I DO like you ever so much .
And you make me feel so bad . ''
No answer .
Presently Una gave a sob .
Instantly Mary squirmed around again and engulfed Una in a bear 's hug .
`` Hush up , '' she ordered .
`` Do n't go crying over what I said .
I was as mean as the devil to talk that way .
I orter to be skinned alive -- and you all so good to me .
I should think you WOULD like any one better 'n me .
I deserve every licking I ever got .
Hush , now .
If you cry any more I 'll go and walk right down to the harbour in this night-dress and drown myself . ''
This terrible threat made Una choke back her sobs .
Her tears were wiped away by Mary with the lace frill of the spare-room pillow and forgiver and forgiven cuddled down together again , harmony restored , to watch the shadows of the vine leaves on the moonlit wall until they fell asleep .
And in the study below Rev. John Meredith walked the floor with rapt face and shining eyes , thinking out his message of the morrow , and knew not that under his own roof there was a little forlorn soul , stumbling in darkness and ignorance , beset by terror and compassed about with difficulties too great for it to grapple in its unequal struggle with a big indifferent world .
CHAPTER VI .
MARY STAYS AT THE MANSE The manse children took Mary Vance to church with them the next day .
At first Mary objected to the idea .
`` Did n't you go to church over-harbour ? ''
asked Una .
`` You bet .
Mrs. Wiley never troubled church much , but I went every Sunday I could get off .
I was mighty thankful to go to some place where I could sit down for a spell .
But I ca n't go to church in this old ragged dress . ''
This difficulty was removed by Faith offering the loan of her second best dress .
`` It 's faded a little and two of the buttons are off , but I guess it 'll do . ''
`` I 'll sew the buttons on in a jiffy , '' said Mary .
`` Not on Sunday , '' said Una , shocked .
`` Sure .
The better the day the better the deed .
You just gim me a needle and thread and look the other way if you 're squeamish . ''
Faith 's school boots , and an old black velvet cap that had once been Cecilia Meredith 's , completed Mary 's costume , and to church she went .
Her behaviour was quite conventional , and though some wondered who the shabby little girl with the manse children was she did not attract much attention .
She listened to the sermon with outward decorum and joined lustily in the singing .
She had , it appeared , a clear , strong voice and a good ear .
`` His blood can make the VIOLETS clean , '' carolled Mary blithely .
Mrs. Jimmy Milgrave , whose pew was just in front of the manse pew , turned suddenly and looked the child over from top to toe .
Mary , in a mere superfluity of naughtiness , stuck out her tongue at Mrs. Milgrave , much to Una 's horror .
`` I could n't help it , '' she declared after church .
`` What 'd she want to stare at me like that for ?
Such manners !
I 'm GLAD stuck my tongue out at her .
I wish I 'd stuck it farther out .
Say , I saw Rob MacAllister from over-harbour there .
Wonder if he 'll tell Mrs. Wiley on me . ''
No Mrs. Wiley appeared , however , and in a few day the children forgot to look for her .
Mary was apparently a fixture at the manse .
But she refused to go to school with the others .
`` Nope .
I 've finished my education , '' she said , when Faith urged her to go .
`` I went to school four winters since I come to Mrs. Wiley 's and I 've had all I want of THAT .
I 'm sick and tired of being everlastingly jawed at 'cause I did n't get my home-lessons done .
I 'D no time to do home-lessons . ''
`` Our teacher wo n't jaw you .
He is awfully nice , '' said Faith .
`` Well , I ai n't going .
I can read and write and cipher up to fractions .
That 's all I want .
You fellows go and I 'll stay home .
You need n't be scared I 'll steal anything .
I swear I 'm honest . ''
Mary employed herself while the others were at school in cleaning up the manse .
In a few days it was a different place .
Floors were swept , furniture dusted , everything straightened out .
She mended the spare-room bed-tick , she sewed on missing buttons , she patched clothes neatly , she even invaded the study with broom and dustpan and ordered Mr. Meredith out while she put it to rights .
But there was one department with which Aunt Martha refused to let her interfere .
Aunt Martha might be deaf and half blind and very childish , but she was resolved to keep the commissariat in her own hands , in spite of all Mary 's wiles and stratagems .
`` I can tell you if old Martha 'd let ME cook you 'd have some decent meals , '' she told the manse children indignantly .
`` There 'd be no more ` ditto ' -- and no more lumpy porridge and blue milk either .
What DOES she do with all the cream ? ''
`` She gives it to the cat .
He 's hers , you know , '' said Faith .
`` I 'd like to CAT her , `` exclaimed Mary bitterly .
`` I 've no use for cats anyhow .
They belong to the old Nick .
You can tell that by their eyes .
Well , if old Martha wo n't , she wo n't , I s ` pose .
But it gits on my nerves to see good vittles spoiled . ''
When school came out they always went to Rainbow Valley .
Mary refused to play in the graveyard .
She declared she was afraid of ghosts .
`` There 's no such thing as ghosts , '' declared Jem Blythe .
`` Oh , ai n't there ? ''
`` Did you ever see any ? ''
`` Hundreds of 'em , '' said Mary promptly .
`` What are they like ? ''
said Carl .
`` Awful-looking .
Dressed all in white with skellington hands and heads , '' said Mary .
`` What did you do ? ''
asked Una .
`` Run like the devil , '' said Mary .
Then she caught Walter 's eyes and blushed .
Mary was a good deal in awe of Walter .
She declared to the manse girls that his eyes made her nervous .
`` I think of all the lies I 've ever told when I look into them , '' she said , `` and I wish I had n't . ''
Jem was Mary 's favourite .
When he took her to the attic at Ingleside and showed her the museum of curios that Captain Jim Boyd had bequeathed to him she was immensely pleased and flattered .
She also won Carl 's heart entirely by her interest in his beetles and ants .
It could not be denied that Mary got on rather better with the boys than with the girls .
She quarrelled bitterly with Nan Blythe the second day .
`` Your mother is a witch , '' she told Nan scornfully .
`` Red-haired women are always witches . ''
Then she and Faith fell out about the rooster .
Mary said its tail was too short .
Faith angrily retorted that she guessed God know what length to make a rooster 's tail .
They did not `` speak '' for a day over this .
Mary treated Una 's hairless , one-eyed doll with consideration ; but when Una showed her other prized treasure -- a picture of an angel carrying a baby , presumably to heaven , Mary declared that it looked too much like a ghost for her .
Una crept away to her room and cried over this , but Mary hunted her out , hugged her repentantly and implored forgiveness .
No one could keep up a quarrel long with Mary -- not even Nan , who was rather prone to hold grudges and never quite forgave the insult to her mother .
Mary was jolly .
She could and did tell the most thrilling ghost stories .
Rainbow Valley seances were undeniably more exciting after Mary came .
She learned to play on the jew 's - harp and soon eclipsed Jerry .
`` Never struck anything yet I could n't do if I put my mind to it , '' she declared .
Mary seldom lost a chance of tooting her own horn .
She taught them how to make `` blow-bags '' out of the thick leaves of the `` live-forever '' that flourished in the old Bailey garden , she initiated them into the toothsome qualities of the `` sours '' that grew in the niches of the graveyard dyke , and she could make the most wonderful shadow pictures on the walls with her long , flexible fingers .
And when they all went picking gum in Rainbow Valley Mary always got `` the biggest chew '' and bragged about it .
There were times when they hated her and times when they loved her .
But at all times they found her interesting .
So they submitted quite meekly to her bossing , and by the end of a fortnight had come to feel that she must always have been with them .
`` It 's the queerest thing that Mrs. Wiley hai n't been after me , '' said Mary .
`` I ca n't understand it . ''
`` Maybe she is n't going to bother about you at all , '' said Una .
`` Then you can just go on staying here . ''
`` This house ai n't hardly big enough for me and old Martha , '' said Mary darkly .
`` It 's a very fine thing to have enough to eat -- I 've often wondered what it would be like -- but I 'm p ` ticler about my cooking .
And Mrs. Wiley 'll be here yet .
SHE 'S got a rod in pickle for me all right .
I do n't think about it so much in daytime but say , girls , up there in that garret at night I git to thinking and thinking of it , till I just almost wish she 'd come and have it over with .
I dunno 's one real good whipping would be much worse 'n all the dozen I 've lived through in my mind ever since I run away .
Were any of you ever licked ? ''
`` No , of course not , '' said Faith indignantly .
`` Father would never do such a thing . ''
`` You do n't know you 're alive , '' said Mary with a sigh half of envy , half of superiority .
`` You do n't know what I 've come through .
And I s ` pose the Blythes were never licked either ? ''
`` No-o-o , I guess not .
But I THINK they were sometimes spanked when they were small . ''
`` A spanking does n't amount to anything , '' said Mary contemptuously .
`` If my folks had just spanked me I 'd have thought they were petting me .
Well , it ai n't a fair world .
I would n't mind taking my share of wallopings but I 've had a darn sight too many . ''
`` It is n't right to say that word , Mary , '' said Una reproachfully .
`` You promised me you would n't say it . ''
`` G'way , '' responded Mary .
`` If you knew some of the words I COULD say if I liked you would n't make such a fuss over darn .
And you know very well I hai n't ever told any lies since I come here . ''
`` What about all those ghosts you said you saw ? ''
asked Faith .
Mary blushed .
`` That was diff ` runt , '' she said defiantly .
`` I knew you would n't believe them yarns and I did n't intend you to .
And I really did see something queer one night when I was passing the over-harbour graveyard , true 's you live .
I dunno whether 't was a ghost or Sandy Crawford 's old white nag , but it looked blamed queer and I tell you I scooted at the rate of no man 's business . ''
CHAPTER VII .
A FISHY EPISODE Rilla Blythe walked proudly , and perhaps a little primly , through the main `` street '' of the Glen and up the manse hill , carefully carrying a small basketful of early strawberries , which Susan had coaxed into lusciousness in one of the sunny nooks of Ingleside .
Susan had charged Rilla to give the basket to nobody except Aunt Martha or Mr. Meredith , and Rilla , very proud of being entrusted with such an errand , was resolved to carry out her instructions to the letter .
Susan had dressed her daintily in a white , starched , and embroidered dress , with sash of blue and beaded slippers .
Her long ruddy curls were sleek and round , and Susan had let her put on her best hat , out of compliment to the manse .
It was a somewhat elaborate affair , wherein Susan 's taste had had more to say than Anne 's , and Rilla 's small soul gloried in its splendours of silk and lace and flowers .
She was very conscious of her hat , and I am afraid she strutted up the manse hill .
The strut , or the hat , or both , got on the nerves of Mary Vance , who was swinging on the lawn gate .
Mary 's temper was somewhat ruffled just then , into the bargain .
Aunt Martha had refused to let her peel the potatoes and had ordered her out of the kitchen .
`` Yah !
You 'll bring the potatoes to the table with strips of skin hanging to them and half boiled as usual !
My , but it 'll be nice to go to your funeral , '' shrieked Mary .
She went out of the kitchen , giving the door such a bang that even Aunt Martha heard it , and Mr. Meredith in his study felt the vibration and thought absently that there must have been a slight earthquake shock .
Then he went on with his sermon .
Mary slipped from the gate and confronted the spick-and-span damsel of Ingleside .
`` What you got there ? ''
she demanded , trying to take the basket .
Rilla resisted .
`` It ` th for Mithter Meredith , '' she lisped .
`` Give it to me .
I 'LL give it to him , '' said Mary .
`` No .
Thuthan thaid that I wath n't to give it to anybody but Mithter Mer ` dith or Aunt Martha , '' insisted Rilla .
Mary eyed her sourly .
`` You think you 're something , do n't you , all dressed up like a doll !
Look at me .
My dress is all rags and I do n't care !
I 'd rather be ragged than a doll baby .
Go home and tell them to put you in a glass case .
Look at me -- look at me -- look at me ! ''
Mary executed a wild dance around the dismayed and bewildered Rilla , flirting her ragged skirt and vociferating `` Look at me -- look at me '' until poor Rilla was dizzy .
But as the latter tried to edge away towards the gate Mary pounced on her again .
`` You give me that basket , '' she ordered with a grimace .
Mary was past mistress in the art of `` making faces . ''
She could give her countenance a most grotesque and unearthly appearance out of which her strange , brilliant , white eyes gleamed with weird effect .
`` I wo n't , '' gasped Rilla , frightened but staunch .
`` You let me go , Mary Vanth . ''
Mary let go for a minute and looked around here .
Just inside the gate was a small `` flake , '' on which a half a dozen large codfish were drying .
One of Mr. Meredith 's parishioners had presented him with them one day , perhaps in lieu of the subscription he was supposed to pay to the stipend and never did .
Mr. Meredith had thanked him and then forgotten all about the fish , which would have promptly spoiled had not the indefatigable Mary prepared them for drying and rigged up the `` flake '' herself on which to dry them .
Mary had a diabolical inspiration .
She flew to the `` flake '' and seized the largest fish there -- a huge , flat thing , nearly as big as herself .
With a whoop she swooped down on the terrified Rilla , brandishing her weird missile .
Rilla 's courage gave way .
To be lambasted with a dried codfish was such an unheard-of thing that Rilla could not face it .
With a shriek she dropped her basket and fled .
The beautiful berries , which Susan had so tenderly selected for the minister , rolled in a rosy torrent over the dusty road and were trodden on by the flying feet of pursuer and pursued .
The basket and contents were no longer in Mary 's mind .
She thought only of the delight of giving Rilla Blythe the scare of her life .
She would teach HER to come giving herself airs because of her fine clothes .
Rilla flew down the hill and along the street .
Terror lent wings to her feet , and she just managed to keep ahead of Mary , who was somewhat hampered by her own laughter , but who had breath enough to give occasional blood-curdling whoops as she ran , flourishing her codfish in the air .
Through the Glen street they swept , while everybody ran to the windows and gates to see them .
Mary felt she was making a tremendous sensation and enjoyed it .
Rilla , blind with terror and spent of breath , felt that she could run no longer .
In another instant that terrible girl would be on her with the codfish .
At this point the poor mite stumbled and fell into the mud-puddle at the end of the street just as Miss Cornelia came out of Carter Flagg 's store .
Miss Cornelia took the whole situation in at a glance .
So did Mary .
The latter stopped short in her mad career and before Miss Cornelia could speak she had whirled around and was running up as fast as she had run down .
Miss Cornelia 's lips tightened ominously , but she knew it was no use to think of chasing her .
So she picked up poor , sobbing , dishevelled Rilla instead and took her home .
Rilla was heart-broken .
Her dress and slippers and hat were ruined and her six year old pride had received terrible bruises .
Susan , white with indignation , heard Miss Cornelia 's story of Mary Vance 's exploit .
`` Oh , the hussy -- oh , the littly hussy ! ''
she said , as she carried Rilla away for purification and comfort .
`` This thing has gone far enough , Anne dearie , '' said Miss Cornelia resolutely .
`` Something must be done .
WHO is this creature who is staying at the manse and where does she come from ? ''
`` I understood she was a little girl from over-harbour who was visiting at the manse , '' answered Anne , who saw the comical side of the codfish chase and secretly thought Rilla was rather vain and needed a lesson or two .
`` I know all the over-harbour families who come to our church and that imp does n't belong to any of them , '' retorted Miss Cornelia .
`` She is almost in rags and when she goes to church she wears Faith Meredith 's old clothes .
There 's some mystery here , and I 'm going to investigate it , since it seems nobody else will .
I believe she was at the bottom of their goings-on in Warren Mead 's spruce bush the other day .
Did you hear of their frightening his mother into a fit ? ''
`` No .
I knew Gilbert had been called to see her , but I did not hear what the trouble was . ''
`` Well , you know she has a weak heart .
And one day last week , when she was all alone on the veranda , she heard the most awful shrieks of ` murder ' and ` help ' coming from the bush -- positively frightful sounds , Anne dearie .
Her heart gave out at once .
Warren heard them himself at the barn , and went straight to the bush to investigate , and there he found all the manse children sitting on a fallen tree and screaming ` murder ' at the top of their lungs .
They told him they were only in fun and did n't think anyone would hear them .
They were just playing Indian ambush .
Warren went back to the house and found his poor mother unconscious on the veranda . ''
Susan , who had returned , sniffed contemptuously .
`` I think she was very far from being unconscious , Mrs. Marshall Elliott , and that you may tie to .
I have been hearing of Amelia Warren 's weak heart for forty years .
She had it when she was twenty .
She enjoys making a fuss and having the doctor , and any excuse will do . ''
`` I do n't think Gilbert thought her attack very serious , '' said Anne .
`` Oh , that may very well be , '' said Miss Cornelia .
`` But the matter has made an awful lot of talk and the Meads being Methodists makes it that much worse .
What is going to become of those children ?
Sometimes I ca n't sleep at nights for thinking about them , Anne dearie .
I really do question if they get enough to eat , even , for their father is so lost in dreams that he does n't often remember he has a stomach , and that lazy old woman does n't bother cooking what she ought .
They are just running wild and now that school is closing they 'll be worse than ever . ''
`` They do have jolly times , '' said Anne , laughing over the recollections of some Rainbow Valley happenings that had come to her ears .
`` And they are all brave and frank and loyal and truthful . ''
`` That 's a true word , Anne dearie , and when you come to think of all the trouble in the church those two tattling , deceitful youngsters of the last minister 's made , I 'm inclined to overlook a good deal in the Merediths . ''
`` When all is said and done , Mrs. Dr. dear , they are very nice children , '' said Susan .
`` They have got plenty of original sin in them and that I will admit , but maybe it is just as well , for if they had not they might spoil from over-sweetness .
Only I do think it is not proper for them to play in a graveyard and that I will maintain . ''
`` But they really play quite quietly there , '' excused Anne .
`` They do n't run and yell as they do elsewhere .
Such howls as drift up here from Rainbow Valley sometimes !
Though I fancy my own small fry bear a valiant part in them .
They had a sham battle there last night and had to ` roar ' themselves , because they had no artillery to do it , so Jem says .
Jem is passing through the stage where all boys hanker to be soldiers . ''
`` Well , thank goodness , he 'll never be a soldier , '' said Miss Cornelia .
`` I never approved of our boys going to that South African fracas .
But it 's over , and not likely anything of the kind will ever happen again .
I think the world is getting more sensible .
As for the Merediths , I 've said many a time and I say it again , if Mr. Meredith had a wife all would be well . ''
`` He called twice at the Kirks ' last week , so I am told , '' said Susan .
`` Well , '' said Miss Cornelia thoughtfully , `` as a rule , I do n't approve of a minister marrying in his congregation .
It generally spoils him .
But in this case it would do no harm , for every one likes Elizabeth Kirk and nobody else is hankering for the job of stepmothering those youngsters .
Even the Hill girls balk at that .
They have n't been found laying traps for Mr. Meredith .
Elizabeth would make him a good wife if he only thought so .
But the trouble is , she really is homely and , Anne dearie , Mr. Meredith , abstracted as he is , has an eye for a good-looking woman , man-like .
He is n't SO other-worldly when it comes to that , believe ME . ''
`` Elizabeth Kirk is a very nice person , but they do say that people have nearly frozen to death in her mother 's spare-room bed before now , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan darkly .
`` If I felt I had any right to express an opinion concerning such a solemn matter as a minister 's marriage I would say that I think Elizabeth 's cousin Sarah , over-harbour , would make Mr. Meredith a better wife . ''
`` Why , Sarah Kirk is a Methodist , '' said Miss Cornelia , much as if Susan had suggested a Hottentot as a manse bride .
`` She would likely turn Presbyterian if she married Mr. Meredith , '' retorted Susan .
Miss Cornelia shook her head .
Evidently with her it was , once a Methodist , always a Methodist .
`` Sarah Kirk is entirely out of the question , '' she said positively .
`` And so is Emmeline Drew -- though the Drews are all trying to make the match .
They are literally throwing poor Emmeline at his head , and he has n't the least idea of it . ''
`` Emmeline Drew has no gumption , I must allow , '' said Susan .
`` She is the kind of woman , Mrs. Dr. dear , who would put a hot-water bottle in your bed on a dog-night and then have her feelings hurt because you were not grateful .
And her mother was a very poor housekeeper .
Did you ever hear the story of her dishcloth ?
She lost her dishcloth one day .
But the next day she found it .
Oh , yes , Mrs. Dr. dear , she found it , in the goose at the dinner-table , mixed up with the stuffing .
Do you think a woman like that would do for a minister 's mother-in-law ?
I do not .
But no doubt I would be better employed in mending little Jem 's trousers than in talking gossip about my neighbours .
He tore them something scandalous last night in Rainbow Valley . ''
`` Where is Walter ? ''
asked Anne .
`` He is up to no good , I fear , Mrs. Dr. dear .
He is in the attic writing something in an exercise book .
And he has not done as well in arithmetic this term as he should , so the teacher tells me .
Too well I know the reason why .
He has been writing silly rhymes when he should have been doing his sums .
I am afraid that boy is going to be a poet , Mrs. Dr. dear . ''
`` He is a poet now , Susan . ''
`` Well , you take it real calm , Mrs. Dr. dear .
I suppose it is the best way , when a person has the strength .
I had an uncle who began by being a poet and ended up by being a tramp .
Our family were dreadfully ashamed of him . ''
`` You do n't seem to think very highly of poets , Susan , '' said Anne , laughing .
`` Who does , Mrs. Dr. dear ? ''
asked Susan in genuine astonishment .
`` What about Milton and Shakespeare ?
And the poets of the Bible ? ''
`` They tell me Milton could not get along with his wife , and Shakespeare was no more than respectable by times .
As for the Bible , of course things were different in those sacred days -- although I never had a high opinion of King David , say what you will .
I never knew any good to come of writing poetry , and I hope and pray that blessed boy will outgrow the tendency .
If he does not -- we must see what emulsion of cod-liver oil will do . ''
CHAPTER VIII .
MISS CORNELIA INTERVENES Miss Cornelia descended upon the manse the next day and cross-questioned Mary , who , being a young person of considerable discernment and astuteness , told her story simple and truthfully , with an entire absence of complaint or bravado .
Miss Cornelia was more favourably impressed than she had expected to be , but deemed it her duty to be severe .
`` Do you think , '' she said sternly , `` that you showed your gratitude to this family , who have been far too kind to you , by insulting and chasing one of their little friends as you did yesterday ? ''
`` Say , it was rotten mean of me , '' admitted Mary easily .
`` I dunno what possessed me .
That old codfish seemed to come in so blamed handy .
But I was awful sorry -- I cried last night after I went to bed about it , honest I did .
You ask Una if I did n't .
I would n't tell her what for 'cause I was ashamed of it , and then she cried , too , because she was afraid someone had hurt my feelings .
Laws , I ai n't got any feelings to hurt worth speaking of .
What worries me is why Mrs. Wiley hai n't been hunting for me .
It ai n't like her . ''
Miss Cornelia herself thought it rather peculiar , but she merely admonished Mary sharply not to take any further liberties with the minister 's codfish , and went to report progress at Ingleside .
`` If the child 's story is true the matter ought to be looked into , '' she said .
`` I know something about that Wiley woman , believe ME .
Marshall used to be well acquainted with her when he lived over-harbour .
I heard him say something last summer about her and a home child she had -- likely this very Mary-creature .
He said some one told him she was working the child to death and not half feeding and clothing it .
You know , Anne dearie , it has always been my habit neither to make nor meddle with those over-harbour folks .
But I shall send Marshall over to-morrow to find out the rights of this if he can .
And THEN I 'll speak to the minister .
Mind you , Anne dearie , the Merediths found this girl literally starving in James Taylor 's old hay barn .
She had been there all night , cold and hungry and alone .
And us sleeping warm in our beds after good suppers . ''
`` The poor little thing , '' said Anne , picturing one of her own dear babies , cold and hungry and alone in such circumstances .
`` If she has been ill-used , Miss Cornelia , she must n't be taken back to such a place .
I was an orphan once in a very similar situation . ''
`` We 'll have to consult the Hopetown asylum folks , '' said Miss Cornelia .
`` Anyway , she ca n't be left at the manse .
Dear knows what those poor children might learn from her .
I understand that she has been known to swear .
But just think of her being there two whole weeks and Mr Meredith never waking up to it !
What business has a man like that to have a family ?
Why , Anne dearie , he ought to be a monk . ''
Two evenings later Miss Cornelia was back at Ingleside .
`` It 's the most amazing thing ! ''
she said .
`` Mrs. Wiley was found dead in her bed the very morning after this Mary-creature ran away .
She has had a bad heart for years and the doctor had warned her it might happen at any time .
She had sent away her hired man and there was nobody in the house .
Some neighbours found her the next day .
They missed the child , it seems , but supposed Mrs. Wiley had sent her to her cousin near Charlottetown as she had said she was going to do .
The cousin did n't come to the funeral and so nobody ever knew that Mary was n't with her .
The people Marshall talked to told him some things about the way Mrs. Wiley used this Mary that made his blood boil , so he declares .
You know , it puts Marshall in a regular fury to hear of a child being ill-used .
They said she whipped her mercilessly for every little fault or mistake .
Some folks talked of writing to the asylum authorities but everybody 's business is nobody 's business and it was never done . ''
`` I am sorry that Wiley person is dead , '' said Susan fiercely .
`` I should like to go over-harbour and give her a piece of my mind .
Starving and beating a child , Mrs. Dr. dear !
As you know , I hold with lawful spanking , but I go no further .
And what is to become of this poor child now , Mrs. Marshall Elliott ? ''
`` I suppose she must be sent back to Hopetown , '' said Miss Cornelia .
`` I think every one hereabouts who wants a home child has one .
I 'll see Mr. Meredith to-morrow and tell him my opinion of the whole affair . ''
`` And no doubt she will , Mrs. Dr. dear , '' said Susan , after Miss Cornelia had gone .
`` She would stick at nothing , not even at shingling the church spire if she took it into her head .
But I can not understand how even Cornelia Bryant can talk to a minister as she does .
You would think he was just any common person . ''
When Miss Cornelia had gone , Nan Blythe uncurled herself from the hammock where she had been studying her lessons and slipped away to Rainbow Valley .
The others were already there .
Jem and Jerry were playing quoits with old horseshoes borrowed from the Glen blacksmith .
Carl was stalking ants on a sunny hillock .
Walter , lying on his stomach among the fern , was reading aloud to Mary and Di and Faith and Una from a wonderful book of myths wherein were fascinating accounts of Prester John and the Wandering Jew , divining rods and tailed men , of Schamir , the worm that split rocks and opened the way to golden treasure , of Fortunate Isles and swan-maidens .
It was a great shock to Walter to learn that William Tell and Gelert were myths also ; and the story of Bishop Hatto was to keep him awake all that night ; but best of all he loved the stories of the Pied Piper and the San Greal .
He read them thrillingly , while the bells on the Tree Lovers tinkled in the summer wind and the coolness of the evening shadows crept across the valley .
`` Say , ai n't them in ` resting lies ? ''
said Mary admiringly when Walter had closed the book .
`` They are n't lies , '' said Di indignantly .
`` You do n't mean they 're true ? ''
asked Mary incredulously .
`` No -- not exactly .
They 're like those ghost-stories of yours .
They were n't true -- but you did n't expect us to believe them , so they were n't lies . ''
`` That yarn about the divining rod is no lie , anyhow , '' said Mary .
`` Old Jake Crawford over-harbour can work it .
They send for him from everywhere when they want to dig a well .
And I believe I know the Wandering Jew . ''
`` Oh , Mary , '' said Una , awe-struck .
`` I do -- true 's you 're alive .
There was an old man at Mrs. Wiley 's one day last fall .
He looked old enough to be ANYTHING .
She was asking him about cedar posts , if he thought they 'd last well .
And he said , ` Last well ?
They 'll last a thousand years .
I know , for I 've tried them twice . '
Now , if he was two thousand years old who was he but your Wandering Jew ? ''
`` I do n't believe the Wandering Jew would associate with a person like Mrs. Wiley , '' said Faith decidedly .
`` I love the Pied Piper story , '' said Di , `` and so does mother .
I always feel so sorry for the poor little lame boy who could n't keep up with the others and got shut out of the mountain .
He must have been so disappointed .
I think all the rest of his life he 'd be wondering what wonderful thing he had missed and wishing he could have got in with the others . ''
`` But how glad his mother must have been , '' said Una softly .
`` I think she had been sorry all her life that he was lame .
Perhaps she even used to cry about it .
But she would never be sorry again -- never .
She would be glad he was lame because that was why she had n't lost him . ''
`` Some day , '' said Walter dreamily , looking afar into the sky , `` the Pied Piper will come over the hill up there and down Rainbow Valley , piping merrily and sweetly .
And I will follow him -- follow him down to the shore -- down to the sea -- away from you all .
I do n't think I 'll want to go -- Jem will want to go -- it will be such an adventure -- but I wo n't .
Only I 'll HAVE to -- the music will call and call and call me until I MUST follow . ''
`` We 'll all go , '' cried Di , catching fire at the flame of Walter 's fancy , and half-believing she could see the mocking , retreating figure of the mystic piper in the far , dim end of the valley .
`` No .
You 'll sit here and wait , '' said Walter , his great , splendid eyes full of strange glamour .
`` You 'll wait for us to come back .
And we may not come -- for we can not come as long as the Piper plays .
He may pipe us round the world .
And still you 'll sit here and wait -- and WAIT . ''
`` Oh , dry up , '' said Mary , shivering .
`` Do n't look like that , Walter Blythe .
You give me the creeps .
Do you want to set me bawling ?
I could just see that horrid old Piper going away on , and you boys following him , and us girls sitting here waiting all alone .
I dunno why it is -- I never was one of the blubbering kind -- but as soon as you start your spieling I always want to cry . ''
Walter smiled in triumph .
He liked to exercise this power of his over his companions -- to play on their feelings , waken their fears , thrill their souls .
It satisfied some dramatic instinct in him .
But under his triumph was a queer little chill of some mysterious dread .
The Pied Piper had seemed very real to him -- as if the fluttering veil that hid the future had for a moment been blown aside in the starlit dusk of Rainbow Valley and some dim glimpse of coming years granted to him .
Carl , coming up to their group with a report of the doings in ant-land , brought them all back to the realm of facts .
`` Ants ARE darned in ` resting , '' exclaimed Mary , glad to escape the shadowy Piper 's thrall .
`` Carl and me watched that bed in the graveyard all Saturday afternoon .
I never thought there was so much in bugs .
Say , but they 're quarrelsome little cusses -- some of 'em like to start a fight ` thout any reason , far 's we could see .
And some of 'em are cowards .
They got so scared they just doubled theirselves up into a ball and let the other fellows bang 'em .
They would n't put up a fight at all .
Some of 'em are lazy and wo n't work .
We watched 'em shirking .
And there was one ant died of grief 'cause another ant got killed -- would n't work -- would n't eat -- just died -- it did , honest to Go -- oodness . ''
A shocked silence prevailed .
Every one knew that Mary had not started out to say `` goodness . ''
Faith and Di exchanged glances that would have done credit to Miss Cornelia herself .
Walter and Carl looked uncomfortable and Una 's lip trembled .
Mary squirmed uncomfortably .
`` That slipped out ` fore I thought -- it did , honest to -- I mean , true 's you live , and I swallowed half of it .
You folks over here are mighty squeamish seems to me .
Wish you could have heard the Wileys when they had a fight . ''
`` Ladies do n't say such things , '' said Faith , very primly for her .
`` It is n't right , '' whispered Una .
`` I ai n't a lady , '' said Mary .
`` What chance 've I ever had of being a lady ?
But I wo n't say that again if I can help it .
I promise you . ''
`` Besides , '' said Una , `` you ca n't expect God to answer your prayers if you take His name in vain , Mary . ''
`` I do n't expect Him to answer 'em anyhow , '' said Mary of little faith .
`` I 've been asking Him for a week to clear up this Wiley affair and He has n't done a thing .
I 'm going to give up . ''
At this juncture Nan arrived breathless .
`` Oh , Mary , I 've news for you .
Mrs. Elliott has been over-harbour and what do you think she found out ?
Mrs. Wiley is dead -- she was found dead in bed the morning after you ran away .
So you 'll never have to go back to her . ''
`` Dead ! ''
said Mary stupefied .
Then she shivered .
`` Do you s ` pose my praying had anything to do with that ? ''
she cried imploringly to Una .
`` If it had I 'll never pray again as long as I live .
Why , she may come back and ha ` nt me . ''
`` No , no , Mary , '' said Una comfortingly , `` it had n't .
Why , Mrs. Wiley died long before you ever began to pray about it at all . ''
`` That 's so , '' said Mary recovering from her panic .
`` But I tell you it gave me a start .
I would n't like to think I 'd prayed anybody to death .
I never thought of such a thing as her dying when I was praying .
She did n't seem much like the dying kind .
Did Mrs. Elliott say anything about me ? ''
`` She said you would likely have to go back to the asylum . ''
`` I thought as much , '' said Mary drearily .
`` And then they 'll give me out again -- likely to some one just like Mrs. Wiley .
Well , I s ` pose I can stand it .
I 'm tough . ''
`` I 'm going to pray that you wo n't have to go back , '' whispered Una , as she and Mary walked home to the manse .
`` You can do as you like , '' said Mary decidedly , `` but I vow I wo n't .
I 'm good and scared of this praying business .
See what 's come of it .
If Mrs. Wiley HAD died after I started praying it would have been my doings . ''
`` Oh , no , it would n't , '' said Una .
`` I wish I could explain things better -- father could , I know , if you 'd talk to him , Mary . ''
`` Catch me !
I do n't know what to make of your father , that 's the long and short of it .
He goes by me and never sees me in broad daylight .
I ai n't proud -- but I ai n't a door-mat , neither ! ''
`` Oh , Mary , it 's just father 's way .
Most of the time he never sees us , either .
He is thinking deeply , that is all .
And I AM going to pray that God will keep you in Four Winds -- because I like you , Mary . ''
`` All right .
Only do n't let me hear of any more people dying on account of it , '' said Mary .
`` I 'd like to stay in Four Winds fine .
I like it and I like the harbour and the light house -- and you and the Blythes .
You 're the only friends I ever had and I 'd hate to leave you . ''
CHAPTER IX .
UNA INTERVENES Miss Cornelia had an interview with Mr. Meredith which proved something of a shock to that abstracted gentleman .
She pointed out to him , none too respectfully , his dereliction of duty in allowing a waif like Mary Vance to come into his family and associate with his children without knowing or learning anything about her .
`` I do n't say there is much harm done , of course , '' she concluded .
`` This Mary-creature is n't what you might call bad , when all is said and done .
I 've been questioning your children and the Blythes , and from what I can make out there 's nothing much to be said against the child except that she 's slangy and does n't use very refined language .
But think what might have happened if she 'd been like some of those home children we know of .
You know yourself what that poor little creature the Jim Flaggs ' had , taught and told the Flagg children . ''
Mr. Meredith did know and was honestly shocked over his own carelessness in the matter .
`` But what is to be done , Mrs. Elliott ? ''
he asked helplessly .
`` We ca n't turn the poor child out .
She must be cared for . ''
`` Of course .
We 'd better write to the Hopetown authorities at once .
Meanwhile , I suppose she might as well stay here for a few more days till we hear from them .
But keep your eyes and ears open , Mr. Meredith . ''
Susan would have died of horror on the spot if she had heard Miss Cornelia so admonishing a minister .
But Miss Cornelia departed in a warm glow of satisfaction over duty done , and that night Mr. Meredith asked Mary to come into his study with him .
Mary obeyed , looking literally ghastly with fright .
But she got the surprise of her poor , battered little life .
This man , of whom she had stood so terribly in awe , was the kindest , gentlest soul she had ever met .
Before she knew what happened Mary found herself pouring all her troubles into his ear and receiving in return such sympathy and tender understanding as it had never occurred to her to imagine .
Mary left the study with her face and eyes so softened that Una hardly knew her .
`` Your father 's all right , when he does wake up , '' she said with a sniff that just escaped being a sob .
`` It 's a pity he does n't wake up oftener .
He said I was n't to blame for Mrs. Wiley dying , but that I must try to think of her good points and not of her bad ones .
I dunno what good points she had , unless it was keeping her house clean and making first-class butter .
I know I ` most wore my arms out scrubbing her old kitchen floor with the knots in it .
But anything your father says goes with me after this . ''
Mary proved a rather dull companion in the following days , however .
She confided to Una that the more she thought of going back to the asylum the more she hated it .
Una racked her small brains for some way of averting it , but it was Nan Blythe who came to the rescue with a somewhat startling suggestion .
`` Mrs. Elliott might take Mary herself .
She has a great big house and Mr. Elliott is always wanting her to have help .
It would be just a splendid place for Mary .
Only she 'd have to behave herself . ''
`` Oh , Nan , do you think Mrs. Elliott would take her ? ''
`` It would n't do any harm if you asked her , '' said Nan .
At first Una did not think she could .
She was so shy that to ask a favour of anybody was agony to her .
And she was very much in awe of the bustling , energetic Mrs. Elliott .
She liked her very much and always enjoyed a visit to her house ; but to go and ask her to adopt Mary Vance seemed such a height of presumption that Una 's timid spirit quailed .
When the Hopetown authorities wrote to Mr. Meredith to send Mary to them without delay Mary cried herself to sleep in the manse attic that night and Una found a desperate courage .
The next evening she slipped away from the manse to the harbour road .
Far down in Rainbow Valley she heard joyous laughter but her way lay not there .
She was terribly pale and terribly in earnest -- so much so that she took no notice of the people she met -- and old Mrs. Stanley Flagg was quite huffed and said Una Meredith would be as absentminded as her father when she grew up .
Miss Cornelia lived half way between the Glen and Four Winds Point , in a house whose original glaring green hue had mellowed down to an agreeable greenish gray .
Marshall Elliott had planted trees about it and set out a rose garden and a spruce hedge .
It was quite a different place from what it had been in years agone .
The manse children and the Ingleside children liked to go there .
It was a beautiful walk down the old harbour road , and there was always a well-filled cooky jar at the end .
The misty sea was lapping softly far down on the sands .
Three big boats were skimming down the harbour like great white sea-birds .
A schooner was coming up the channel .
The world of Four Winds was steeped in glowing colour , and subtle music , and strange glamour , and everybody should have been happy in it .
But when Una turned in at Miss Cornelia 's gate her very legs had almost refused to carry her .
Miss Cornelia was alone on the veranda .
Una had hoped Mr. Elliott would be there .
He was so big and hearty and twinkly that there would be encouragement in his presence .
She sat on the little stool Miss Cornelia brought out and tried to eat the doughnut Miss Cornelia gave her .
It stuck in her throat , but she swallowed desperately lest Miss Cornelia be offended .
She could not talk ; she was still pale ; and her big , dark-blue eyes looked so piteous that Miss Cornelia concluded the child was in some trouble .
`` What 's on your mind , dearie ? ''
she asked .
`` There 's something , that 's plain to be seen . ''
Una swallowed the last twist of doughnut with a desperate gulp .
`` Mrs. Elliott , wo n't you take Mary Vance ? ''
she said beseechingly .
Miss Cornelia stared blankly .
`` Me !
Take Mary Vance !
Do you mean keep her ? ''
`` Yes -- keep her -- adopt her , '' said Una eagerly , gaining courage now that the ice was broken .
`` Oh , Mrs. Elliott , PLEASE do .
She does n't want to go back to the asylum -- she cries every night about it .
She 's so afraid of being sent to another hard place .
And she 's SO smart -- there is n't anything she ca n't do .
I know you would n't be sorry if you took her . ''
`` I never thought of such a thing , '' said Miss Cornelia rather helplessly .
`` WO N'T you think of it ? ''
implored Una .
`` But , dearie , I do n't want help .
I 'm quite able to do all the work here .
And I never thought I 'd like to have a home girl if I did need help . ''
The light went out of Una 's eyes .
Her lips trembled .
She sat down on her stool again , a pathetic little figure of disappointment , and began to cry .
`` Do n't -- dearie -- do n't , '' exclaimed Miss Cornelia in distress .
She could never bear to hurt a child .
`` I do n't say I WO N'T take her -- but the idea is so new it has just kerflummuxed me .
I must think it over . ''
`` Mary is SO smart , '' said Una again .
`` Humph !
So I 've heard .
I 've heard she swears , too .
Is that true ? ''
`` I 've never heard her swear EXACTLY , '' faltered Una uncomfortably .
`` But I 'm afraid she COULD . ''
`` I believe you !
Does she always tell the truth ? ''
`` I think she does , except when she 's afraid of a whipping . ''
`` And yet you want me to take her ! ''
`` SOME ONE has to take her , '' sobbed Una .
`` SOME ONE has to look after her , Mrs. Elliott . ''
`` That 's true .
Perhaps it IS my duty to do it , '' said Miss Cornelia with a sigh .
`` Well , I 'll have to talk it over with Mr. Elliott .
So do n't say anything about it just yet .
Take another doughnut , dearie . ''
Una took it and ate it with a better appetite .
`` I 'm very fond of doughnuts , '' she confessed `` Aunt Martha never makes any .
But Miss Susan at Ingleside does , and sometimes she lets us have a plateful in Rainbow Valley .
Do you know what I do when I 'm hungry for doughnuts and ca n't get any , Mrs. Elliott ? ''
`` No , dearie .
What ? ''
`` I get out mother 's old cook book and read the doughnut recipe -- and the other recipes .
They sound SO nice .
I always do that when I 'm hungry -- especially after we 've had ditto for dinner .
THEN I read the fried chicken and the roast goose recipes .
Mother could make all those nice things . ''
`` Those manse children will starve to death yet if Mr. Meredith does n't get married , '' Miss Cornelia told her husband indignantly after Una had gone .
`` And he wo n't -- and what 's to be done ?
And SHALL we take this Mary-creature , Marshall ? ''
`` Yes , take her , '' said Marshall laconically .
`` Just like a man , '' said his wife , despairingly . ''
` Take her ' -- as if that was all .
There are a hundred things to be considered , believe ME . ''
`` Take her -- and we 'll consider them afterwards , Cornelia , '' said her husband .
In the end Miss Cornelia did take her and went up to announce her decision to the Ingleside people first .
`` Splendid ! ''
said Anne delightedly .
`` I 've been hoping you would do that very thing , Miss Cornelia .
I want that poor child to get a good home .
I was a homeless little orphan just like her once . ''
`` I do n't think this Mary-creature is or ever will be much like you , '' retorted Miss Cornelia gloomily .
`` She 's a cat of another colour .
But she 's also a human being with an immortal soul to save .
I 've got a shorter catechism and a small tooth comb and I 'm going to do my duty by her , now that I 've set my hand to the plough , believe me . ''
Mary received the news with chastened satisfaction .
`` It 's better luck than I expected , '' she said .
`` You 'll have to mind your p 's and q 's with Mrs. Elliott , '' said Nan .
`` Well , I can do that , '' flashed Mary .
`` I know how to behave when I want to just as well as you , Nan Blythe . ''
`` You must n't use bad words , you know , Mary , '' said Una anxiously .
`` I s ` pose she 'd die of horror if I did , '' grinned Mary , her white eyes shining with unholy glee over the idea .
`` But you need n't worry , Una .
Butter wo n't melt in my mouth after this .
I 'll be all prunes and prisms . ''
`` Nor tell lies , '' added Faith .
`` Not even to get off from a whipping ? ''
pleaded Mary .
`` Mrs. Elliott will NEVER whip you -- NEVER , '' exclaimed Di .
`` Wo n't she ? ''
said Mary skeptically .
`` If I ever find myself in a place where I ai n't licked I 'll think it 's heaven all right .
No fear of me telling lies then .
I ai n't fond of telling 'em -- I 'd ruther not , if it comes to that . ''
The day before Mary 's departure from the manse they had a picnic in her honour in Rainbow Valley , and that evening all the manse children gave her something from their scanty store of treasured things for a keepsake .
Carl gave her his Noah 's ark and Jerry his second best jew 's - harp .
Faith gave her a little hairbrush with a mirror in the back of it , which Mary had always considered very wonderful .
Una hesitated between an old beaded purse and a gay picture of Daniel in the lion 's den , and finally offered Mary her choice .
Mary really hankered after the beaded purse , but she knew Una loved it , so she said , `` Give me Daniel .
I 'd rusher have it 'cause I 'm partial to lions .
Only I wish they 'd et Daniel up .
It would have been more exciting . ''
At bedtime Mary coaxed Una to sleep with her .
`` It 's for the last time , '' she said , `` and it 's raining tonight , and I hate sleeping up there alone when it 's raining on account of that graveyard .
I do n't mind it on fine nights , but a night like this I ca n't see anything but the rain pouring down on them old white stones , and the wind round the window sounds as if them dead people were trying to get in and crying 'cause they could n't . ''
`` I like rainy nights , '' said Una , when they were cuddled down together in the little attic room , `` and so do the Blythe girls . ''
`` I do n't mind 'em when I 'm not handy to graveyards , '' said Mary .
`` If I was alone here I 'd cry my eyes out I 'd be so lonesome .
I feel awful bad to be leaving you all . ''
`` Mrs. Elliott will let you come up and play in Rainbow Valley quite often I 'm sure , '' said Una .
`` And you WILL be a good girl , wo n't you , Mary ? ''
`` Oh , I 'll try , '' sighed Mary .
`` But it wo n't be as easy for me to be good -- inside , I mean , as well as outside -- as it is for you .
You had n't such scalawags of relations as I had . ''
`` But your people must have had some good qualities as well as bad ones , '' argued Una .
`` You must live up to them and never mind their bad ones . ''
`` I do n't believe they had any good qualities , '' said Mary gloomily .
`` I never heard of any .
My grandfather had money , but they say he was a rascal .
No , I 'll just have to start out on my own hook and do the best I can . ''
`` And God will help you , you know , Mary , if you ask Him . ''
`` I do n't know about that . ''
`` Oh , Mary .
You know we asked God to get a home for you and He did . ''
`` I do n't see what He had to do with it , '' retorted Mary .
`` It was you put it into Mrs. Elliott 's head . ''
`` But God put it into her HEART to take you .
All my putting it into her HEAD would n't have done any good if He had n't . ''
`` Well , there may be something in that , '' admitted Mary .
`` Mind you , I have n't got anything against God , Una .
I 'm willing to give Him a chance .
But , honest , I think He 's an awful lot like your father -- just absent-minded and never taking any notice of a body most of the time , but sometimes waking up all of a suddent and being awful good and kind and sensible . ''
`` Oh , Mary , no ! ''
exclaimed horrified Una .
`` God is n't a bit like father -- I mean He 's a thousand times better and kinder . ''
`` If He 's as good as your father He 'll do for me , '' said Mary .
`` When your father was talking to me I felt as if I never could be bad any more . ''
`` I wish you 'd talk to father about Him , '' sighed Una .
`` He can explain it all so much better than I can . ''
`` Why , so I will , next time he wakes up , '' promised Mary .
`` That night he talked to me in the study he showed me real clear that my praying did n't kill Mrs. Wiley .
My mind 's been easy since , but I 'm real cautious about praying .
I guess the old rhyme is the safest .
Say , Una , it seems to me if one has to pray to anybody it 'd be better to pray to the devil than to God .
God 's good , anyhow so you say , so He wo n't do you any harm , but from all I can make out the devil needs to be pacified .
I think the sensible way would be to say to HIM , ` Good devil , please do n't tempt me .
Just leave me alone , please . '
Now , do n't you ? ''
`` Oh , no , no , Mary .
I 'm sure it could n't be right to pray to the devil .
And it would n't do any good because he 's bad .
It might aggravate him and he 'd be worse than ever . ''
`` Well , as to this God-matter , '' said Mary stubbornly , `` since you and I ca n't settle it , there ai n't no use in talking more about it until we 've a chanct to find out the rights of it .
I 'll do the best I can alone till then . ''
`` If mother was alive she could tell us everything , '' said Una with a sigh .
`` I wisht she was alive , '' said Mary .
`` I do n't know what 's going to become of you youngsters when I 'm gone .
Anyhow , DO try and keep the house a little tidy .
The way people talks about it is scandalous .
And the first thing you know your father will be getting married again and then your noses will be out of joint . ''
Una was startled .
The idea of her father marrying again had never presented itself to her before .
She did not like it and she lay silent under the chill of it .
`` Stepmothers are AWFUL creatures , '' Mary went on .
`` I could make your blood run cold if I was to tell you all I know about 'em .
The Wilson kids across the road from Wiley 's had a stepmother .
She was just as bad to 'em as Mrs. Wiley was to me .
It 'll be awful if you get a stepmother . ''
`` I 'm sure we wo n't , '' said Una tremulously .
`` Father wo n't marry anybody else . ''
`` He 'll be hounded into it , I expect , '' said Mary darkly .
`` All the old maids in the settlement are after him .
There 's no being up to them .
And the worst of stepmothers is , they always set your father against you .
He 'd never care anything about you again .
He 'd always take her part and her children 's part .
You see , she 'd make him believe you were all bad . ''
`` I wish you had n't told me this , Mary , '' cried Una .
`` It makes me feel so unhappy . ''
`` I only wanted to warn you , '' said Mary , rather repentantly .
`` Of course , your father 's so absent-minded he might n't happen to think of getting married again .
But it 's better to be prepared . ''
Long after Mary slept serenely little Una lay awake , her eyes smarting with tears .
On , how dreadful it would be if her father should marry somebody who would make him hate her and Jerry and Faith and Carl !
She could n't bear it -- she could n't !
Mary had not instilled any poison of the kind Miss Cornelia had feared into the manse children 's minds .
Yet she had certainly contrived to do a little mischief with the best of intentions .
But she slept dreamlessly , while Una lay awake and the rain fell and the wind wailed around the old gray manse .
And the Rev. John Meredith forgot to go to bed at all because he was absorbed in reading a life of St. Augustine .
It was gray dawn when he finished it and went upstairs , wrestling with the problems of two thousand years ago .
The door of the girls ' room was open and he saw Faith lying asleep , rosy and beautiful .
He wondered where Una was .
Perhaps she had gone over to `` stay all night '' with the Blythe girls .
She did this occasionally , deeming it a great treat .
John Meredith sighed .
He felt that Una 's whereabouts ought not to be a mystery to him .
Cecelia would have looked after her better than that .
If only Cecelia were still with him !
How pretty and gay she had been !
How the old manse up at Maywater had echoed to her songs !
And she had gone away so suddenly , taking her laughter and music and leaving silence -- so suddenly that he had never quite got over his feeling of amazement .
How could SHE , the beautiful and vivid , have died ?
The idea of a second marriage had never presented itself seriously to John Meredith .
He had loved his wife so deeply that he believed he could never care for any woman again .
He had a vague idea that before very long Faith would be old enough to take her mother 's place .
Until then , he must do the best he could alone .
He sighed and went to his room , where the bed was still unmade .
Aunt Martha had forgotten it , and Mary had not dared to make it because Aunt Martha had forbidden her to meddle with anything in the minister 's room .
But Mr. Meredith did not notice that it was unmade .
His last thoughts were of St. Augustine .
CHAPTER X .
THE MANSE GIRLS CLEAN HOUSE `` Ugh , '' said Faith , sitting up in bed with a shiver .
`` It 's raining .
I do hate a rainy Sunday .
Sunday is dull enough even when it 's fine . ''
`` We ought n't to find Sunday dull , '' said Una sleepily , trying to pull her drowsy wits together with an uneasy conviction that they had overslept .
`` But we DO , you know , '' said Faith candidly .
`` Mary Vance says most Sundays are so dull she could hang herself . ''
`` We ought to like Sunday better than Mary Vance , '' said Una remorsefully .
`` We 're the minister 's children . ''
`` I wish we were a blacksmith 's children , '' protested Faith angrily , hunting for her stockings .
`` THEN people would n't expect us to be better than other children .
JUST look at the holes in my heels .
Mary darned them all up before she went away , but they 're as bad as ever now .
Una , get up .
I ca n't get the breakfast alone .
Oh , dear .
I wish father and Jerry were home .
You would n't think we 'd miss father much -- we do n't see much of him when he is home .
And yet EVERYTHING seems gone .
I must run in and see how Aunt Martha is . ''
`` Is she any better ? ''
asked Una , when Faith returned .
`` No , she is n't .
She 's groaning with the misery still .
Maybe we ought to tell Dr. Blythe .
But she says not -- she never had a doctor in her life and she is n't going to begin now .
She says doctors just live by poisoning people .
Do you suppose they do ? ''
`` No , of course not , '' said Una indignantly .
`` I 'm sure Dr. Blythe would n't poison anybody . ''
`` Well , we 'll have to rub Aunt Martha 's back again after breakfast .
We 'd better not make the flannels as hot as we did yesterday . ''
Faith giggled over the remembrance .
They had nearly scalded the skin off poor Aunt Martha 's back .
Una sighed .
Mary Vance would have known just what the precise temperature of flannels for a misery back should be .
Mary knew everything .
They knew nothing .
And how could they learn , save by bitter experience for which , in this instance , unfortunate Aunt Martha had paid ?
The preceding Monday Mr. Meredith had left for Nova Scotia to spend his short vacation , taking Jerry with him .
On Wednesday Aunt Martha was suddenly seized with a recurring and mysterious ailment which she always called `` the misery , '' and which was tolerably certain to attack her at the most inconvenient times .
She could not rise from her bed , any movement causing agony .
A doctor she flatly refused to have .
