No one took notice of me , only the bow oar saying , `` Is that you , Jim ?
Keep your head down . ''
But Silver , from the other boat , looked sharply over and called out to know if that were me ; and from that moment I began to regret what I had done .
The crews raced for the beach , but the boat I was in , having some start and being at once the lighter and the better manned , shot far ahead of her consort , and the bow had struck among the shore-side trees and I had caught a branch and swung myself out and plunged into the nearest thicket while Silver and the rest were still a hundred yards behind .
`` Jim , Jim ! ''
I heard him shouting .
But you may suppose I paid no heed ; jumping , ducking , and breaking through , I ran straight before my nose till I could run no longer .
14 The First Blow I WAS so pleased at having given the slip to Long John that I began to enjoy myself and look around me with some interest on the strange land that I was in .
I had crossed a marshy tract full of willows , bulrushes , and odd , outlandish , swampy trees ; and I had now come out upon the skirts of an open piece of undulating , sandy country , about a mile long , dotted with a few pines and a great number of contorted trees , not unlike the oak in growth , but pale in the foliage , like willows .
On the far side of the open stood one of the hills , with two quaint , craggy peaks shining vividly in the sun .
I now felt for the first time the joy of exploration .
The isle was uninhabited ; my shipmates I had left behind , and nothing lived in front of me but dumb brutes and fowls .
I turned hither and thither among the trees .
Here and there were flowering plants , unknown to me ; here and there I saw snakes , and one raised his head from a ledge of rock and hissed at me with a noise not unlike the spinning of a top .
Little did I suppose that he was a deadly enemy and that the noise was the famous rattle .
Then I came to a long thicket of these oaklike trees -- live , or evergreen , oaks , I heard afterwards they should be called -- which grew low along the sand like brambles , the boughs curiously twisted , the foliage compact , like thatch .
The thicket stretched down from the top of one of the sandy knolls , spreading and growing taller as it went , until it reached the margin of the broad , reedy fen , through which the nearest of the little rivers soaked its way into the anchorage .
The marsh was steaming in the strong sun , and the outline of the Spy-glass trembled through the haze .
All at once there began to go a sort of bustle among the bulrushes ; a wild duck flew up with a quack , another followed , and soon over the whole surface of the marsh a great cloud of birds hung screaming and circling in the air .
I judged at once that some of my shipmates must be drawing near along the borders of the fen .
Nor was I deceived , for soon I heard the very distant and low tones of a human voice , which , as I continued to give ear , grew steadily louder and nearer .
This put me in a great fear , and I crawled under cover of the nearest live-oak and squatted there , hearkening , as silent as a mouse .
Another voice answered , and then the first voice , which I now recognized to be Silver 's , once more took up the story and ran on for a long while in a stream , only now and again interrupted by the other .
By the sound they must have been talking earnestly , and almost fiercely ; but no distinct word came to my hearing .
At last the speakers seemed to have paused and perhaps to have sat down , for not only did they cease to draw any nearer , but the birds themselves began to grow more quiet and to settle again to their places in the swamp .
And now I began to feel that I was neglecting my business , that since I had been so foolhardy as to come ashore with these desperadoes , the least I could do was to overhear them at their councils , and that my plain and obvious duty was to draw as close as I could manage , under the favourable ambush of the crouching trees .
I could tell the direction of the speakers pretty exactly , not only by the sound of their voices but by the behaviour of the few birds that still hung in alarm above the heads of the intruders .
Crawling on all fours , I made steadily but slowly towards them , till at last , raising my head to an aperture among the leaves , I could see clear down into a little green dell beside the marsh , and closely set about with trees , where Long John Silver and another of the crew stood face to face in conversation .
The sun beat full upon them .
Silver had thrown his hat beside him on the ground , and his great , smooth , blond face , all shining with heat , was lifted to the other man 's in a kind of appeal .
`` Mate , '' he was saying , `` it 's because I thinks gold dust of you -- gold dust , and you may lay to that !
If I had n't took to you like pitch , do you think I 'd have been here a-warning of you ?
All 's up -- you ca n't make nor mend ; it 's to save your neck that I 'm a-speaking , and if one of the wild uns knew it , where 'd I be , Tom -- now , tell me , where 'd I be ? ''
`` Silver , '' said the other man -- and I observed he was not only red in the face , but spoke as hoarse as a crow , and his voice shook too , like a taut rope -- `` Silver , '' says he , `` you 're old , and you 're honest , or has the name for it ; and you 've money too , which lots of poor sailors has n't ; and you 're brave , or I 'm mistook .
And will you tell me you 'll let yourself be led away with that kind of a mess of swabs ?
Not you !
As sure as God sees me , I 'd sooner lose my hand .
If I turn agin my dooty -- '' And then all of a sudden he was interrupted by a noise .
I had found one of the honest hands -- well , here , at that same moment , came news of another .
Far away out in the marsh there arose , all of a sudden , a sound like the cry of anger , then another on the back of it ; and then one horrid , long-drawn scream .
The rocks of the Spy-glass re-echoed it a score of times ; the whole troop of marsh-birds rose again , darkening heaven , with a simultaneous whirr ; and long after that death yell was still ringing in my brain , silence had re-established its empire , and only the rustle of the redescending birds and the boom of the distant surges disturbed the languor of the afternoon .
Tom had leaped at the sound , like a horse at the spur , but Silver had not winked an eye .
He stood where he was , resting lightly on his crutch , watching his companion like a snake about to spring .
`` John ! ''
said the sailor , stretching out his hand .
`` Hands off ! ''
cried Silver , leaping back a yard , as it seemed to me , with the speed and security of a trained gymnast .
`` Hands off , if you like , John Silver , '' said the other .
`` It 's a black conscience that can make you feared of me .
But in heaven 's name , tell me , what was that ? ''
`` That ? ''
returned Silver , smiling away , but warier than ever , his eye a mere pin-point in his big face , but gleaming like a crumb of glass .
`` That ?
Oh , I reckon that 'll be Alan . ''
And at this point Tom flashed out like a hero .
`` Alan ! ''
he cried .
`` Then rest his soul for a true seaman !
And as for you , John Silver , long you 've been a mate of mine , but you 're mate of mine no more .
If I die like a dog , I 'll die in my dooty .
You 've killed Alan , have you ?
Kill me too , if you can .
But I defies you . ''
And with that , this brave fellow turned his back directly on the cook and set off walking for the beach .
But he was not destined to go far .
With a cry John seized the branch of a tree , whipped the crutch out of his armpit , and sent that uncouth missile hurtling through the air .
It struck poor Tom , point foremost , and with stunning violence , right between the shoulders in the middle of his back .
His hands flew up , he gave a sort of gasp , and fell .
Whether he were injured much or little , none could ever tell .
Like enough , to judge from the sound , his back was broken on the spot .
But he had no time given him to recover .
Silver , agile as a monkey even without leg or crutch , was on the top of him next moment and had twice buried his knife up to the hilt in that defenceless body .
From my place of ambush , I could hear him pant aloud as he struck the blows .
I do not know what it rightly is to faint , but I do know that for the next little while the whole world swam away from before me in a whirling mist ; Silver and the birds , and the tall Spy-glass hilltop , going round and round and topsy-turvy before my eyes , and all manner of bells ringing and distant voices shouting in my ear .
When I came again to myself the monster had pulled himself together , his crutch under his arm , his hat upon his head .
Just before him Tom lay motionless upon the sward ; but the murderer minded him not a whit , cleansing his blood-stained knife the while upon a wisp of grass .
Everything else was unchanged , the sun still shining mercilessly on the steaming marsh and the tall pinnacle of the mountain , and I could scarce persuade myself that murder had been actually done and a human life cruelly cut short a moment since before my eyes .
But now John put his hand into his pocket , brought out a whistle , and blew upon it several modulated blasts that rang far across the heated air .
I could not tell , of course , the meaning of the signal , but it instantly awoke my fears .
More men would be coming .
I might be discovered .
They had already slain two of the honest people ; after Tom and Alan , might not I come next ?
Instantly I began to extricate myself and crawl back again , with what speed and silence I could manage , to the more open portion of the wood .
As I did so , I could hear hails coming and going between the old buccaneer and his comrades , and this sound of danger lent me wings .
As soon as I was clear of the thicket , I ran as I never ran before , scarce minding the direction of my flight , so long as it led me from the murderers ; and as I ran , fear grew and grew upon me until it turned into a kind of frenzy .
Indeed , could anyone be more entirely lost than I ?
When the gun fired , how should I dare to go down to the boats among those fiends , still smoking from their crime ?
Would not the first of them who saw me wring my neck like a snipe 's ?
Would not my absence itself be an evidence to them of my alarm , and therefore of my fatal knowledge ?
It was all over , I thought .
Good-bye to the HISPANIOLA ; good-bye to the squire , the doctor , and the captain !
There was nothing left for me but death by starvation or death by the hands of the mutineers .
All this while , as I say , I was still running , and without taking any notice , I had drawn near to the foot of the little hill with the two peaks and had got into a part of the island where the live-oaks grew more widely apart and seemed more like forest trees in their bearing and dimensions .
Mingled with these were a few scattered pines , some fifty , some nearer seventy , feet high .
The air too smelt more freshly than down beside the marsh .
And here a fresh alarm brought me to a standstill with a thumping heart .
15 The Man of the Island FROM the side of the hill , which was here steep and stony , a spout of gravel was dislodged and fell rattling and bounding through the trees .
My eyes turned instinctively in that direction , and I saw a figure leap with great rapidity behind the trunk of a pine .
What it was , whether bear or man or monkey , I could in no wise tell .
It seemed dark and shaggy ; more I knew not .
But the terror of this new apparition brought me to a stand .
I was now , it seemed , cut off upon both sides ; behind me the murderers , before me this lurking nondescript .
And immediately I began to prefer the dangers that I knew to those I knew not .
Silver himself appeared less terrible in contrast with this creature of the woods , and I turned on my heel , and looking sharply behind me over my shoulder , began to retrace my steps in the direction of the boats .
Instantly the figure reappeared , and making a wide circuit , began to head me off .
I was tired , at any rate ; but had I been as fresh as when I rose , I could see it was in vain for me to contend in speed with such an adversary .
From trunk to trunk the creature flitted like a deer , running manlike on two legs , but unlike any man that I had ever seen , stooping almost double as it ran .
Yet a man it was , I could no longer be in doubt about that .
I began to recall what I had heard of cannibals .
I was within an ace of calling for help .
But the mere fact that he was a man , however wild , had somewhat reassured me , and my fear of Silver began to revive in proportion .
I stood still , therefore , and cast about for some method of escape ; and as I was so thinking , the recollection of my pistol flashed into my mind .
As soon as I remembered I was not defenceless , courage glowed again in my heart and I set my face resolutely for this man of the island and walked briskly towards him .
He was concealed by this time behind another tree trunk ; but he must have been watching me closely , for as soon as I began to move in his direction he reappeared and took a step to meet me .
Then he hesitated , drew back , came forward again , and at last , to my wonder and confusion , threw himself on his knees and held out his clasped hands in supplication .
At that I once more stopped .
`` Who are you ? ''
I asked .
`` Ben Gunn , '' he answered , and his voice sounded hoarse and awkward , like a rusty lock .
`` I 'm poor Ben Gunn , I am ; and I have n't spoke with a Christian these three years . ''
I could now see that he was a white man like myself and that his features were even pleasing .
His skin , wherever it was exposed , was burnt by the sun ; even his lips were black , and his fair eyes looked quite startling in so dark a face .
Of all the beggar-men that I had seen or fancied , he was the chief for raggedness .
He was clothed with tatters of old ship 's canvas and old sea-cloth , and this extraordinary patchwork was all held together by a system of the most various and incongruous fastenings , brass buttons , bits of stick , and loops of tarry gaskin .
About his waist he wore an old brass-buckled leather belt , which was the one thing solid in his whole accoutrement .
`` Three years ! ''
I cried .
`` Were you shipwrecked ? ''
`` Nay , mate , '' said he ; `` marooned . ''
I had heard the word , and I knew it stood for a horrible kind of punishment common enough among the buccaneers , in which the offender is put ashore with a little powder and shot and left behind on some desolate and distant island .
`` Marooned three years agone , '' he continued , `` and lived on goats since then , and berries , and oysters .
Wherever a man is , says I , a man can do for himself .
But , mate , my heart is sore for Christian diet .
You might n't happen to have a piece of cheese about you , now ?
No ?
Well , many 's the long night I 've dreamed of cheese -- toasted , mostly -- and woke up again , and here I were . ''
`` If ever I can get aboard again , '' said I , `` you shall have cheese by the stone . ''
All this time he had been feeling the stuff of my jacket , smoothing my hands , looking at my boots , and generally , in the intervals of his speech , showing a childish pleasure in the presence of a fellow creature .
But at my last words he perked up into a kind of startled slyness .
`` If ever you can get aboard again , says you ? ''
he repeated .
`` Why , now , who 's to hinder you ? ''
`` Not you , I know , '' was my reply .
`` And right you was , '' he cried .
`` Now you -- what do you call yourself , mate ? ''
`` Jim , '' I told him .
`` Jim , Jim , '' says he , quite pleased apparently .
`` Well , now , Jim , I 've lived that rough as you 'd be ashamed to hear of .
Now , for instance , you would n't think I had had a pious mother -- to look at me ? ''
he asked .
`` Why , no , not in particular , '' I answered .
`` Ah , well , '' said he , `` but I had -- remarkable pious .
And I was a civil , pious boy , and could rattle off my catechism that fast , as you could n't tell one word from another .
And here 's what it come to , Jim , and it begun with chuck-farthen on the blessed grave-stones !
That 's what it begun with , but it went further 'n that ; and so my mother told me , and predicked the whole , she did , the pious woman !
But it were Providence that put me here .
I 've thought it all out in this here lonely island , and I 'm back on piety .
You do n't catch me tasting rum so much , but just a thimbleful for luck , of course , the first chance I have .
I 'm bound I 'll be good , and I see the way to .
And , Jim '' -- looking all round him and lowering his voice to a whisper -- `` I 'm rich . ''
I now felt sure that the poor fellow had gone crazy in his solitude , and I suppose I must have shown the feeling in my face , for he repeated the statement hotly : `` Rich !
Rich !
I says .
And I 'll tell you what : I 'll make a man of you , Jim .
Ah , Jim , you 'll bless your stars , you will , you was the first that found me ! ''
And at this there came suddenly a lowering shadow over his face , and he tightened his grasp upon my hand and raised a forefinger threateningly before my eyes .
`` Now , Jim , you tell me true : that ai n't Flint 's ship ? ''
he asked .
At this I had a happy inspiration .
I began to believe that I had found an ally , and I answered him at once .
`` It 's not Flint 's ship , and Flint is dead ; but I 'll tell you true , as you ask me -- there are some of Flint 's hands aboard ; worse luck for the rest of us . ''
`` Not a man -- with one -- leg ? ''
he gasped .
`` Silver ? ''
I asked .
`` Ah , Silver ! ''
says he .
`` That were his name . ''
`` He 's the cook , and the ringleader too . ''
He was still holding me by the wrist , and at that he give it quite a wring .
`` If you was sent by Long John , '' he said , `` I 'm as good as pork , and I know it .
But where was you , do you suppose ? ''
I had made my mind up in a moment , and by way of answer told him the whole story of our voyage and the predicament in which we found ourselves .
He heard me with the keenest interest , and when I had done he patted me on the head .
`` You 're a good lad , Jim , '' he said ; `` and you 're all in a clove hitch , ai n't you ?
Well , you just put your trust in Ben Gunn -- Ben Gunn 's the man to do it .
Would you think it likely , now , that your squire would prove a liberal-minded one in case of help -- him being in a clove hitch , as you remark ? ''
I told him the squire was the most liberal of men .
`` Aye , but you see , '' returned Ben Gunn , `` I did n't mean giving me a gate to keep , and a suit of livery clothes , and such ; that 's not my mark , Jim .
What I mean is , would he be likely to come down to the toon of , say one thousand pounds out of money that 's as good as a man 's own already ? ''
`` I am sure he would , '' said I. `` As it was , all hands were to share . ''
`` AND a passage home ? ''
he added with a look of great shrewdness .
`` Why , '' I cried , `` the squire 's a gentleman .
And besides , if we got rid of the others , we should want you to help work the vessel home . ''
`` Ah , '' said he , `` so you would . ''
And he seemed very much relieved .
`` Now , I 'll tell you what , '' he went on .
`` So much I 'll tell you , and no more .
I were in Flint 's ship when he buried the treasure ; he and six along -- six strong seamen .
They was ashore nigh on a week , and us standing off and on in the old WALRUS .
One fine day up went the signal , and here come Flint by himself in a little boat , and his head done up in a blue scarf .
The sun was getting up , and mortal white he looked about the cutwater .
But , there he was , you mind , and the six all dead -- dead and buried .
How he done it , not a man aboard us could make out .
It was battle , murder , and sudden death , leastways -- him against six .
Billy Bones was the mate ; Long John , he was quartermaster ; and they asked him where the treasure was .
` Ah , ' says he , ` you can go ashore , if you like , and stay , ' he says ; ` but as for the ship , she 'll beat up for more , by thunder ! '
That 's what he said .
`` Well , I was in another ship three years back , and we sighted this island .
` Boys , ' said I , ` here 's Flint 's treasure ; let 's land and find it . '
The cap'n was displeased at that , but my messmates were all of a mind and landed .
Twelve days they looked for it , and every day they had the worse word for me , until one fine morning all hands went aboard .
` As for you , Benjamin Gunn , ' says they , ` here 's a musket , ' they says , ` and a spade , and pick-axe .
You can stay here and find Flint 's money for yourself , ' they says .
`` Well , Jim , three years have I been here , and not a bite of Christian diet from that day to this .
But now , you look here ; look at me .
Do I look like a man before the mast ?
No , says you .
Nor I were n't , neither , I says . ''
And with that he winked and pinched me hard .
`` Just you mention them words to your squire , Jim , '' he went on .
`` Nor he were n't , neither -- that 's the words .
Three years he were the man of this island , light and dark , fair and rain ; and sometimes he would maybe think upon a prayer -LRB- says you -RRB- , and sometimes he would maybe think of his old mother , so be as she 's alive -LRB- you 'll say -RRB- ; but the most part of Gunn 's time -LRB- this is what you 'll say -RRB- -- the most part of his time was took up with another matter .
And then you 'll give him a nip , like I do . ''
And he pinched me again in the most confidential manner .
`` Then , '' he continued , `` then you 'll up , and you 'll say this : Gunn is a good man -LRB- you 'll say -RRB- , and he puts a precious sight more confidence -- a precious sight , mind that -- in a gen ` leman born than in these gen ` leman of fortune , having been one hisself . ''
`` Well , '' I said , `` I do n't understand one word that you 've been saying .
But that 's neither here nor there ; for how am I to get on board ? ''
`` Ah , '' said he , `` that 's the hitch , for sure .
Well , there 's my boat , that I made with my two hands .
I keep her under the white rock .
If the worst come to the worst , we might try that after dark .
Hi ! ''
he broke out .
`` What 's that ? ''
For just then , although the sun had still an hour or two to run , all the echoes of the island awoke and bellowed to the thunder of a cannon .
`` They have begun to fight ! ''
I cried .
`` Follow me . ''
And I began to run towards the anchorage , my terrors all forgotten , while close at my side the marooned man in his goatskins trotted easily and lightly .
`` Left , left , '' says he ; `` keep to your left hand , mate Jim !
Under the trees with you !
Theer 's where I killed my first goat .
They do n't come down here now ; they 're all mastheaded on them mountings for the fear of Benjamin Gunn .
Ah !
And there 's the cetemery '' -- cemetery , he must have meant .
`` You see the mounds ?
I come here and prayed , nows and thens , when I thought maybe a Sunday would be about doo .
It were n't quite a chapel , but it seemed more solemn like ; and then , says you , Ben Gunn was short-handed -- no chapling , nor so much as a Bible and a flag , you says . ''
So he kept talking as I ran , neither expecting nor receiving any answer .
The cannon-shot was followed after a considerable interval by a volley of small arms .
Another pause , and then , not a quarter of a mile in front of me , I beheld the Union Jack flutter in the air above a wood .
PART FOUR -- The Stockade 16 Narrative Continued by the Doctor : How the Ship Was Abandoned IT was about half past one -- three bells in the sea phrase -- that the two boats went ashore from the HISPANIOLA .
The captain , the squire , and I were talking matters over in the cabin .
Had there been a breath of wind , we should have fallen on the six mutineers who were left aboard with us , slipped our cable , and away to sea .
But the wind was wanting ; and to complete our helplessness , down came Hunter with the news that Jim Hawkins had slipped into a boat and was gone ashore with the rest .
It never occurred to us to doubt Jim Hawkins , but we were alarmed for his safety .
With the men in the temper they were in , it seemed an even chance if we should see the lad again .
We ran on deck .
The pitch was bubbling in the seams ; the nasty stench of the place turned me sick ; if ever a man smelt fever and dysentery , it was in that abominable anchorage .
The six scoundrels were sitting grumbling under a sail in the forecastle ; ashore we could see the gigs made fast and a man sitting in each , hard by where the river runs in .
One of them was whistling `` Lillibullero . ''
Waiting was a strain , and it was decided that Hunter and I should go ashore with the jolly-boat in quest of information .
The gigs had leaned to their right , but Hunter and I pulled straight in , in the direction of the stockade upon the chart .
The two who were left guarding their boats seemed in a bustle at our appearance ; `` Lillibullero '' stopped off , and I could see the pair discussing what they ought to do .
Had they gone and told Silver , all might have turned out differently ; but they had their orders , I suppose , and decided to sit quietly where they were and hark back again to `` Lillibullero . ''
There was a slight bend in the coast , and I steered so as to put it between us ; even before we landed we had thus lost sight of the gigs .
I jumped out and came as near running as I durst , with a big silk handkerchief under my hat for coolness ' sake and a brace of pistols ready primed for safety .
I had not gone a hundred yards when I reached the stockade .
This was how it was : a spring of clear water rose almost at the top of a knoll .
Well , on the knoll , and enclosing the spring , they had clapped a stout loghouse fit to hold two score of people on a pinch and loopholed for musketry on either side .
All round this they had cleared a wide space , and then the thing was completed by a paling six feet high , without door or opening , too strong to pull down without time and labour and too open to shelter the besiegers .
The people in the log-house had them in every way ; they stood quiet in shelter and shot the others like partridges .
All they wanted was a good watch and food ; for , short of a complete surprise , they might have held the place against a regiment .
What particularly took my fancy was the spring .
For though we had a good enough place of it in the cabin of the HISPANIOLA , with plenty of arms and ammunition , and things to eat , and excellent wines , there had been one thing overlooked -- we had no water .
I was thinking this over when there came ringing over the island the cry of a man at the point of death .
I was not new to violent death -- I have served his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland , and got a wound myself at Fontenoy -- but I know my pulse went dot and carry one .
`` Jim Hawkins is gone , '' was my first thought .
It is something to have been an old soldier , but more still to have been a doctor .
There is no time to dilly-dally in our work .
And so now I made up my mind instantly , and with no time lost returned to the shore and jumped on board the jolly-boat .
By good fortune Hunter pulled a good oar .
We made the water fly , and the boat was soon alongside and I aboard the schooner .
I found them all shaken , as was natural .
The squire was sitting down , as white as a sheet , thinking of the harm he had led us to , the good soul !
And one of the six forecastle hands was little better .
`` There 's a man , '' says Captain Smollett , nodding towards him , `` new to this work .
He came nigh-hand fainting , doctor , when he heard the cry .
Another touch of the rudder and that man would join us . ''
I told my plan to the captain , and between us we settled on the details of its accomplishment .
We put old Redruth in the gallery between the cabin and the forecastle , with three or four loaded muskets and a mattress for protection .
Hunter brought the boat round under the stern-port , and Joyce and I set to work loading her with powder tins , muskets , bags of biscuits , kegs of pork , a cask of cognac , and my invaluable medicine chest .
In the meantime , the squire and the captain stayed on deck , and the latter hailed the coxswain , who was the principal man aboard .
`` Mr. Hands , '' he said , `` here are two of us with a brace of pistols each .
If any one of you six make a signal of any description , that man 's dead . ''
They were a good deal taken aback , and after a little consultation one and all tumbled down the fore companion , thinking no doubt to take us on the rear .
But when they saw Redruth waiting for them in the sparred galley , they went about ship at once , and a head popped out again on deck .
`` Down , dog ! ''
cries the captain .
And the head popped back again ; and we heard no more , for the time , of these six very faint-hearted seamen .
By this time , tumbling things in as they came , we had the jolly-boat loaded as much as we dared .
Joyce and I got out through the stern-port , and we made for shore again as fast as oars could take us .
This second trip fairly aroused the watchers along shore .
`` Lillibullero '' was dropped again ; and just before we lost sight of them behind the little point , one of them whipped ashore and disappeared .
I had half a mind to change my plan and destroy their boats , but I feared that Silver and the others might be close at hand , and all might very well be lost by trying for too much .
We had soon touched land in the same place as before and set to provision the block house .
All three made the first journey , heavily laden , and tossed our stores over the palisade .
Then , leaving Joyce to guard them -- one man , to be sure , but with half a dozen muskets -- Hunter and I returned to the jolly-boat and loaded ourselves once more .
So we proceeded without pausing to take breath , till the whole cargo was bestowed , when the two servants took up their position in the block house , and I , with all my power , sculled back to the HISPANIOLA .
That we should have risked a second boat load seems more daring than it really was .
They had the advantage of numbers , of course , but we had the advantage of arms .
Not one of the men ashore had a musket , and before they could get within range for pistol shooting , we flattered ourselves we should be able to give a good account of a half-dozen at least .
The squire was waiting for me at the stern window , all his faintness gone from him .
He caught the painter and made it fast , and we fell to loading the boat for our very lives .
Pork , powder , and biscuit was the cargo , with only a musket and a cutlass apiece for the squire and me and Redruth and the captain .
The rest of the arms and powder we dropped overboard in two fathoms and a half of water , so that we could see the bright steel shining far below us in the sun , on the clean , sandy bottom .
By this time the tide was beginning to ebb , and the ship was swinging round to her anchor .
Voices were heard faintly halloaing in the direction of the two gigs ; and though this reassured us for Joyce and Hunter , who were well to the eastward , it warned our party to be off .
Redruth retreated from his place in the gallery and dropped into the boat , which we then brought round to the ship 's counter , to be handier for Captain Smollett .
`` Now , men , '' said he , `` do you hear me ? ''
There was no answer from the forecastle .
`` It 's to you , Abraham Gray -- it 's to you I am speaking . ''
Still no reply .
`` Gray , '' resumed Mr. Smollett , a little louder , `` I am leaving this ship , and I order you to follow your captain .
I know you are a good man at bottom , and I dare say not one of the lot of you 's as bad as he makes out .
I have my watch here in my hand ; I give you thirty seconds to join me in . ''
There was a pause .
`` Come , my fine fellow , '' continued the captain ; `` do n't hang so long in stays .
I 'm risking my life and the lives of these good gentlemen every second . ''
There was a sudden scuffle , a sound of blows , and out burst Abraham Gray with a knife cut on the side of the cheek , and came running to the captain like a dog to the whistle .
`` I 'm with you , sir , '' said he .
And the next moment he and the captain had dropped aboard of us , and we had shoved off and given way .
We were clear out of the ship , but not yet ashore in our stockade .
17 Narrative Continued by the Doctor : The Jolly-boat 's Last Trip THIS fifth trip was quite different from any of the others .
In the first place , the little gallipot of a boat that we were in was gravely overloaded .
Five grown men , and three of them -- Trelawney , Redruth , and the captain -- over six feet high , was already more than she was meant to carry .
Add to that the powder , pork , and bread-bags .
The gunwale was lipping astern .
Several times we shipped a little water , and my breeches and the tails of my coat were all soaking wet before we had gone a hundred yards .
The captain made us trim the boat , and we got her to lie a little more evenly .
All the same , we were afraid to breathe .
In the second place , the ebb was now making -- a strong rippling current running westward through the basin , and then south ` ard and seaward down the straits by which we had entered in the morning .
Even the ripples were a danger to our overloaded craft , but the worst of it was that we were swept out of our true course and away from our proper landing-place behind the point .
If we let the current have its way we should come ashore beside the gigs , where the pirates might appear at any moment .
`` I can not keep her head for the stockade , sir , '' said I to the captain .
I was steering , while he and Redruth , two fresh men , were at the oars .
`` The tide keeps washing her down .
Could you pull a little stronger ? ''
`` Not without swamping the boat , '' said he .
`` You must bear up , sir , if you please -- bear up until you see you 're gaining . ''
I tried and found by experiment that the tide kept sweeping us westward until I had laid her head due east , or just about right angles to the way we ought to go .
`` We 'll never get ashore at this rate , '' said I. `` If it 's the only course that we can lie , sir , we must even lie it , '' returned the captain .
`` We must keep upstream .
You see , sir , '' he went on , `` if once we dropped to leeward of the landing-place , it 's hard to say where we should get ashore , besides the chance of being boarded by the gigs ; whereas , the way we go the current must slacken , and then we can dodge back along the shore . ''
`` The current 's less a ` ready , sir , '' said the man Gray , who was sitting in the fore-sheets ; `` you can ease her off a bit . ''
`` Thank you , my man , '' said I , quite as if nothing had happened , for we had all quietly made up our minds to treat him like one of ourselves .
Suddenly the captain spoke up again , and I thought his voice was a little changed .
`` The gun ! ''
said he .
`` I have thought of that , '' said I , for I made sure he was thinking of a bombardment of the fort .
`` They could never get the gun ashore , and if they did , they could never haul it through the woods . ''
`` Look astern , doctor , '' replied the captain .
We had entirely forgotten the long nine ; and there , to our horror , were the five rogues busy about her , getting off her jacket , as they called the stout tarpaulin cover under which she sailed .
Not only that , but it flashed into my mind at the same moment that the round-shot and the powder for the gun had been left behind , and a stroke with an axe would put it all into the possession of the evil ones abroad .
`` Israel was Flint 's gunner , '' said Gray hoarsely .
At any risk , we put the boat 's head direct for the landing-place .
By this time we had got so far out of the run of the current that we kept steerage way even at our necessarily gentle rate of rowing , and I could keep her steady for the goal .
But the worst of it was that with the course I now held we turned our broadside instead of our stern to the HISPANIOLA and offered a target like a barn door .
I could hear as well as see that brandy-faced rascal Israel Hands plumping down a round-shot on the deck .
`` Who 's the best shot ? ''
asked the captain .
`` Mr. Trelawney , out and away , '' said I. `` Mr. Trelawney , will you please pick me off one of these men , sir ?
Hands , if possible , '' said the captain .
Trelawney was as cool as steel .
He looked to the priming of his gun .
`` Now , '' cried the captain , `` easy with that gun , sir , or you 'll swamp the boat .
All hands stand by to trim her when he aims . ''
The squire raised his gun , the rowing ceased , and we leaned over to the other side to keep the balance , and all was so nicely contrived that we did not ship a drop .
They had the gun , by this time , slewed round upon the swivel , and Hands , who was at the muzzle with the rammer , was in consequence the most exposed .
However , we had no luck , for just as Trelawney fired , down he stooped , the ball whistled over him , and it was one of the other four who fell .
The cry he gave was echoed not only by his companions on board but by a great number of voices from the shore , and looking in that direction I saw the other pirates trooping out from among the trees and tumbling into their places in the boats .
`` Here come the gigs , sir , '' said I. `` Give way , then , '' cried the captain .
`` We must n't mind if we swamp her now .
If we ca n't get ashore , all 's up . ''
`` Only one of the gigs is being manned , sir , '' I added ; `` the crew of the other most likely going round by shore to cut us off . ''
`` They 'll have a hot run , sir , '' returned the captain .
`` Jack ashore , you know .
It 's not them I mind ; it 's the round-shot .
Carpet bowls !
My lady 's maid could n't miss .
Tell us , squire , when you see the match , and we 'll hold water . ''
In the meanwhile we had been making headway at a good pace for a boat so overloaded , and we had shipped but little water in the process .
We were now close in ; thirty or forty strokes and we should beach her , for the ebb had already disclosed a narrow belt of sand below the clustering trees .
The gig was no longer to be feared ; the little point had already concealed it from our eyes .
The ebb-tide , which had so cruelly delayed us , was now making reparation and delaying our assailants .
The one source of danger was the gun .
`` If I durst , '' said the captain , `` I 'd stop and pick off another man . ''
But it was plain that they meant nothing should delay their shot .
They had never so much as looked at their fallen comrade , though he was not dead , and I could see him trying to crawl away .
`` Ready ! ''
cried the squire .
`` Hold ! ''
cried the captain , quick as an echo .
And he and Redruth backed with a great heave that sent her stern bodily under water .
The report fell in at the same instant of time .
This was the first that Jim heard , the sound of the squire 's shot not having reached him .
Where the ball passed , not one of us precisely knew , but I fancy it must have been over our heads and that the wind of it may have contributed to our disaster .
At any rate , the boat sank by the stern , quite gently , in three feet of water , leaving the captain and myself , facing each other , on our feet .
The other three took complete headers , and came up again drenched and bubbling .
So far there was no great harm .
No lives were lost , and we could wade ashore in safety .
But there were all our stores at the bottom , and to make things worse , only two guns out of five remained in a state for service .
Mine I had snatched from my knees and held over my head , by a sort of instinct .
As for the captain , he had carried his over his shoulder by a bandoleer , and like a wise man , lock uppermost .
The other three had gone down with the boat .
To add to our concern , we heard voices already drawing near us in the woods along shore , and we had not only the danger of being cut off from the stockade in our half-crippled state but the fear before us whether , if Hunter and Joyce were attacked by half a dozen , they would have the sense and conduct to stand firm .
Hunter was steady , that we knew ; Joyce was a doubtful case -- a pleasant , polite man for a valet and to brush one 's clothes , but not entirely fitted for a man of war .
With all this in our minds , we waded ashore as fast as we could , leaving behind us the poor jolly-boat and a good half of all our powder and provisions .
18 Narrative Continued by the Doctor : End of the First Day 's Fighting WE made our best speed across the strip of wood that now divided us from the stockade , and at every step we took the voices of the buccaneers rang nearer .
Soon we could hear their footfalls as they ran and the cracking of the branches as they breasted across a bit of thicket .
I began to see we should have a brush for it in earnest and looked to my priming .
`` Captain , '' said I , `` Trelawney is the dead shot .
Give him your gun ; his own is useless . ''
They exchanged guns , and Trelawney , silent and cool as he had been since the beginning of the bustle , hung a moment on his heel to see that all was fit for service .
At the same time , observing Gray to be unarmed , I handed him my cutlass .
It did all our hearts good to see him spit in his hand , knit his brows , and make the blade sing through the air .
It was plain from every line of his body that our new hand was worth his salt .
Forty paces farther we came to the edge of the wood and saw the stockade in front of us .
We struck the enclosure about the middle of the south side , and almost at the same time , seven mutineers -- Job Anderson , the boatswain , at their head -- appeared in full cry at the southwestern corner .
They paused as if taken aback , and before they recovered , not only the squire and I , but Hunter and Joyce from the block house , had time to fire .
The four shots came in rather a scattering volley , but they did the business : one of the enemy actually fell , and the rest , without hesitation , turned and plunged into the trees .
After reloading , we walked down the outside of the palisade to see to the fallen enemy .
He was stone dead -- shot through the heart .
We began to rejoice over our good success when just at that moment a pistol cracked in the bush , a ball whistled close past my ear , and poor Tom Redruth stumbled and fell his length on the ground .
Both the squire and I returned the shot , but as we had nothing to aim at , it is probable we only wasted powder .
Then we reloaded and turned our attention to poor Tom .
The captain and Gray were already examining him , and I saw with half an eye that all was over .
I believe the readiness of our return volley had scattered the mutineers once more , for we were suffered without further molestation to get the poor old gamekeeper hoisted over the stockade and carried , groaning and bleeding , into the log-house .
Poor old fellow , he had not uttered one word of surprise , complaint , fear , or even acquiescence from the very beginning of our troubles till now , when we had laid him down in the log-house to die .
He had lain like a Trojan behind his mattress in the gallery ; he had followed every order silently , doggedly , and well ; he was the oldest of our party by a score of years ; and now , sullen , old , serviceable servant , it was he that was to die .
The squire dropped down beside him on his knees and kissed his hand , crying like a child .
`` Be I going , doctor ? ''
he asked .
`` Tom , my man , '' said I , `` you 're going home . ''
`` I wish I had had a lick at them with the gun first , '' he replied .
`` Tom , '' said the squire , `` say you forgive me , wo n't you ? ''
`` Would that be respectful like , from me to you , squire ? ''
was the answer .
`` Howsoever , so be it , amen ! ''
After a little while of silence , he said he thought somebody might read a prayer .
`` It 's the custom , sir , '' he added apologetically .
And not long after , without another word , he passed away .
In the meantime the captain , whom I had observed to be wonderfully swollen about the chest and pockets , had turned out a great many various stores -- the British colours , a Bible , a coil of stoutish rope , pen , ink , the log-book , and pounds of tobacco .
He had found a longish fir-tree lying felled and trimmed in the enclosure , and with the help of Hunter he had set it up at the corner of the log-house where the trunks crossed and made an angle .
Then , climbing on the roof , he had with his own hand bent and run up the colours .
This seemed mightily to relieve him .
He re-entered the log-house and set about counting up the stores as if nothing else existed .
But he had an eye on Tom 's passage for all that , and as soon as all was over , came forward with another flag and reverently spread it on the body .
`` Do n't you take on , sir , '' he said , shaking the squire 's hand .
`` All 's well with him ; no fear for a hand that 's been shot down in his duty to captain and owner .
It may n't be good divinity , but it 's a fact . ''
Then he pulled me aside .
`` Dr. Livesey , '' he said , `` in how many weeks do you and squire expect the consort ? ''
I told him it was a question not of weeks but of months , that if we were not back by the end of August Blandly was to send to find us , but neither sooner nor later .
`` You can calculate for yourself , '' I said .
`` Why , yes , '' returned the captain , scratching his head ; `` and making a large allowance , sir , for all the gifts of Providence , I should say we were pretty close hauled . ''
`` How do you mean ? ''
I asked .
`` It 's a pity , sir , we lost that second load .
That 's what I mean , '' replied the captain .
`` As for powder and shot , we 'll do .
But the rations are short , very short -- so short , Dr. Livesey , that we 're perhaps as well without that extra mouth . ''
And he pointed to the dead body under the flag .
Just then , with a roar and a whistle , a round-shot passed high above the roof of the log-house and plumped far beyond us in the wood .
`` Oho ! ''
said the captain .
`` Blaze away !
You 've little enough powder already , my lads . ''
At the second trial , the aim was better , and the ball descended inside the stockade , scattering a cloud of sand but doing no further damage .
`` Captain , '' said the squire , `` the house is quite invisible from the ship .
It must be the flag they are aiming at .
Would it not be wiser to take it in ? ''
`` Strike my colours ! ''
cried the captain .
`` No , sir , not I '' ; and as soon as he had said the words , I think we all agreed with him .
For it was not only a piece of stout , seamanly , good feeling ; it was good policy besides and showed our enemies that we despised their cannonade .
All through the evening they kept thundering away .
Ball after ball flew over or fell short or kicked up the sand in the enclosure , but they had to fire so high that the shot fell dead and buried itself in the soft sand .
We had no ricochet to fear , and though one popped in through the roof of the log-house and out again through the floor , we soon got used to that sort of horse-play and minded it no more than cricket .
`` There is one good thing about all this , '' observed the captain ; `` the wood in front of us is likely clear .
The ebb has made a good while ; our stores should be uncovered .
Volunteers to go and bring in pork . ''
Gray and Hunter were the first to come forward .
Well armed , they stole out of the stockade , but it proved a useless mission .
The mutineers were bolder than we fancied or they put more trust in Israel 's gunnery .
For four or five of them were busy carrying off our stores and wading out with them to one of the gigs that lay close by , pulling an oar or so to hold her steady against the current .
Silver was in the stern-sheets in command ; and every man of them was now provided with a musket from some secret magazine of their own .
The captain sat down to his log , and here is the beginning of the entry : Alexander Smollett , master ; David Livesey , ship 's doctor ; Abraham Gray , carpenter 's mate ; John Trelawney , owner ; John Hunter and Richard Joyce , owner 's servants , landsmen -- being all that is left faithful of the ship 's company -- with stores for ten days at short rations , came ashore this day and flew British colours on the log-house in Treasure Island .
Thomas Redruth , owner 's servant , landsman , shot by the mutineers ; James Hawkins , cabin-boy -- And at the same time , I was wondering over poor Jim Hawkins ' fate .
A hail on the land side .
`` Somebody hailing us , '' said Hunter , who was on guard .
`` Doctor !
Squire !
Captain !
Hullo , Hunter , is that you ? ''
came the cries .
And I ran to the door in time to see Jim Hawkins , safe and sound , come climbing over the stockade .
19 Narrative Resumed by Jim Hawkins : The Garrison in the Stockade AS soon as Ben Gunn saw the colours he came to a halt , stopped me by the arm , and sat down .
`` Now , '' said he , `` there 's your friends , sure enough . ''
`` Far more likely it 's the mutineers , '' I answered .
`` That ! ''
he cried .
`` Why , in a place like this , where nobody puts in but gen ` lemen of fortune , Silver would fly the Jolly Roger , you do n't make no doubt of that .
No , that 's your friends .
There 's been blows too , and I reckon your friends has had the best of it ; and here they are ashore in the old stockade , as was made years and years ago by Flint .
Ah , he was the man to have a headpiece , was Flint !
Barring rum , his match were never seen .
He were afraid of none , not he ; on ' y Silver -- Silver was that genteel . ''
`` Well , '' said I , `` that may be so , and so be it ; all the more reason that I should hurry on and join my friends . ''
`` Nay , mate , '' returned Ben , `` not you .
You 're a good boy , or I 'm mistook ; but you 're on ' y a boy , all told .
Now , Ben Gunn is fly .
Rum would n't bring me there , where you 're going -- not rum would n't , till I see your born gen ` leman and gets it on his word of honour .
And you wo n't forget my words ; ' A precious sight -LRB- that 's what you 'll say -RRB- , a precious sight more confidence ' -- and then nips him . ''
And he pinched me the third time with the same air of cleverness .
`` And when Ben Gunn is wanted , you know where to find him , Jim .
Just wheer you found him today .
And him that comes is to have a white thing in his hand , and he 's to come alone .
Oh !
And you 'll say this : ` Ben Gunn , ' says you , ` has reasons of his own . ' ''
`` Well , '' said I , `` I believe I understand .
You have something to propose , and you wish to see the squire or the doctor , and you 're to be found where I found you .
Is that all ? ''
`` And when ?
says you , '' he added .
`` Why , from about noon observation to about six bells . ''
`` Good , '' said I , `` and now may I go ? ''
`` You wo n't forget ? ''
he inquired anxiously .
`` Precious sight , and reasons of his own , says you .
Reasons of his own ; that 's the mainstay ; as between man and man .
Well , then '' -- still holding me -- `` I reckon you can go , Jim .
And , Jim , if you was to see Silver , you would n't go for to sell Ben Gunn ?
Wild horses would n't draw it from you ?
No , says you .
And if them pirates camp ashore , Jim , what would you say but there 'd be widders in the morning ? ''
Here he was interrupted by a loud report , and a cannonball came tearing through the trees and pitched in the sand not a hundred yards from where we two were talking .
The next moment each of us had taken to his heels in a different direction .
For a good hour to come frequent reports shook the island , and balls kept crashing through the woods .
I moved from hiding-place to hiding-place , always pursued , or so it seemed to me , by these terrifying missiles .
But towards the end of the bombardment , though still I durst not venture in the direction of the stockade , where the balls fell oftenest , I had begun , in a manner , to pluck up my heart again , and after a long detour to the east , crept down among the shore-side trees .
The sun had just set , the sea breeze was rustling and tumbling in the woods and ruffling the grey surface of the anchorage ; the tide , too , was far out , and great tracts of sand lay uncovered ; the air , after the heat of the day , chilled me through my jacket .
The HISPANIOLA still lay where she had anchored ; but , sure enough , there was the Jolly Roger -- the black flag of piracy -- flying from her peak .
Even as I looked , there came another red flash and another report that sent the echoes clattering , and one more round-shot whistled through the air .
It was the last of the cannonade .
I lay for some time watching the bustle which succeeded the attack .
Men were demolishing something with axes on the beach near the stockade -- the poor jolly-boat , I afterwards discovered .
Away , near the mouth of the river , a great fire was glowing among the trees , and between that point and the ship one of the gigs kept coming and going , the men , whom I had seen so gloomy , shouting at the oars like children .
But there was a sound in their voices which suggested rum .
At length I thought I might return towards the stockade .
I was pretty far down on the low , sandy spit that encloses the anchorage to the east , and is joined at half-water to Skeleton Island ; and now , as I rose to my feet , I saw , some distance further down the spit and rising from among low bushes , an isolated rock , pretty high , and peculiarly white in colour .
It occurred to me that this might be the white rock of which Ben Gunn had spoken and that some day or other a boat might be wanted and I should know where to look for one .
Then I skirted among the woods until I had regained the rear , or shoreward side , of the stockade , and was soon warmly welcomed by the faithful party .
I had soon told my story and began to look about me .
The log-house was made of unsquared trunks of pine -- roof , walls , and floor .
The latter stood in several places as much as a foot or a foot and a half above the surface of the sand .
There was a porch at the door , and under this porch the little spring welled up into an artificial basin of a rather odd kind -- no other than a great ship 's kettle of iron , with the bottom knocked out , and sunk `` to her bearings , '' as the captain said , among the sand .
Little had been left besides the framework of the house , but in one corner there was a stone slab laid down by way of hearth and an old rusty iron basket to contain the fire .
The slopes of the knoll and all the inside of the stockade had been cleared of timber to build the house , and we could see by the stumps what a fine and lofty grove had been destroyed .
Most of the soil had been washed away or buried in drift after the removal of the trees ; only where the streamlet ran down from the kettle a thick bed of moss and some ferns and little creeping bushes were still green among the sand .
Very close around the stockade -- too close for defence , they said -- the wood still flourished high and dense , all of fir on the land side , but towards the sea with a large admixture of live-oaks .
The cold evening breeze , of which I have spoken , whistled through every chink of the rude building and sprinkled the floor with a continual rain of fine sand .
There was sand in our eyes , sand in our teeth , sand in our suppers , sand dancing in the spring at the bottom of the kettle , for all the world like porridge beginning to boil .
Our chimney was a square hole in the roof ; it was but a little part of the smoke that found its way out , and the rest eddied about the house and kept us coughing and piping the eye .
Add to this that Gray , the new man , had his face tied up in a bandage for a cut he had got in breaking away from the mutineers and that poor old Tom Redruth , still unburied , lay along the wall , stiff and stark , under the Union Jack .
If we had been allowed to sit idle , we should all have fallen in the blues , but Captain Smollett was never the man for that .
All hands were called up before him , and he divided us into watches .
The doctor and Gray and I for one ; the squire , Hunter , and Joyce upon the other .
Tired though we all were , two were sent out for firewood ; two more were set to dig a grave for Redruth ; the doctor was named cook ; I was put sentry at the door ; and the captain himself went from one to another , keeping up our spirits and lending a hand wherever it was wanted .
From time to time the doctor came to the door for a little air and to rest his eyes , which were almost smoked out of his head , and whenever he did so , he had a word for me .
`` That man Smollett , '' he said once , `` is a better man than I am .
And when I say that it means a deal , Jim . ''
Another time he came and was silent for a while .
Then he put his head on one side , and looked at me .
`` Is this Ben Gunn a man ? ''
he asked .
`` I do not know , sir , '' said I. `` I am not very sure whether he 's sane . ''
`` If there 's any doubt about the matter , he is , '' returned the doctor .
`` A man who has been three years biting his nails on a desert island , Jim , ca n't expect to appear as sane as you or me .
It does n't lie in human nature .
Was it cheese you said he had a fancy for ? ''
`` Yes , sir , cheese , '' I answered .
`` Well , Jim , '' says he , `` just see the good that comes of being dainty in your food .
You 've seen my snuff-box , have n't you ?
And you never saw me take snuff , the reason being that in my snuff-box I carry a piece of Parmesan cheese -- a cheese made in Italy , very nutritious .
Well , that 's for Ben Gunn ! ''
Before supper was eaten we buried old Tom in the sand and stood round him for a while bare-headed in the breeze .
A good deal of firewood had been got in , but not enough for the captain 's fancy , and he shook his head over it and told us we `` must get back to this tomorrow rather livelier . ''
Then , when we had eaten our pork and each had a good stiff glass of brandy grog , the three chiefs got together in a corner to discuss our prospects .
It appears they were at their wits ' end what to do , the stores being so low that we must have been starved into surrender long before help came .
But our best hope , it was decided , was to kill off the buccaneers until they either hauled down their flag or ran away with the HISPANIOLA .
From nineteen they were already reduced to fifteen , two others were wounded , and one at least -- the man shot beside the gun -- severely wounded , if he were not dead .
Every time we had a crack at them , we were to take it , saving our own lives , with the extremest care .
And besides that , we had two able allies -- rum and the climate .
As for the first , though we were about half a mile away , we could hear them roaring and singing late into the night ; and as for the second , the doctor staked his wig that , camped where they were in the marsh and unprovided with remedies , the half of them would be on their backs before a week .
`` So , '' he added , `` if we are not all shot down first they 'll be glad to be packing in the schooner .
It 's always a ship , and they can get to buccaneering again , I suppose . ''
`` First ship that ever I lost , '' said Captain Smollett .
I was dead tired , as you may fancy ; and when I got to sleep , which was not till after a great deal of tossing , I slept like a log of wood .
The rest had long been up and had already breakfasted and increased the pile of firewood by about half as much again when I was wakened by a bustle and the sound of voices .
`` Flag of truce ! ''
I heard someone say ; and then , immediately after , with a cry of surprise , `` Silver himself ! ''
And at that , up I jumped , and rubbing my eyes , ran to a loophole in the wall .
20 Silver 's Embassy SURE enough , there were two men just outside the stockade , one of them waving a white cloth , the other , no less a person than Silver himself , standing placidly by .
It was still quite early , and the coldest morning that I think I ever was abroad in -- a chill that pierced into the marrow .
The sky was bright and cloudless overhead , and the tops of the trees shone rosily in the sun .
But where Silver stood with his lieutenant , all was still in shadow , and they waded knee-deep in a low white vapour that had crawled during the night out of the morass .
The chill and the vapour taken together told a poor tale of the island .
It was plainly a damp , feverish , unhealthy spot .
`` Keep indoors , men , '' said the captain .
`` Ten to one this is a trick . ''
Then he hailed the buccaneer .
`` Who goes ?
Stand , or we fire . ''
`` Flag of truce , '' cried Silver .
The captain was in the porch , keeping himself carefully out of the way of a treacherous shot , should any be intended .
He turned and spoke to us , `` Doctor 's watch on the lookout .
Dr. Livesey take the north side , if you please ; Jim , the east ; Gray , west .
The watch below , all hands to load muskets .
Lively , men , and careful . ''
And then he turned again to the mutineers .
`` And what do you want with your flag of truce ? ''
he cried .
This time it was the other man who replied .
`` Cap'n Silver , sir , to come on board and make terms , '' he shouted .
`` Cap'n Silver !
Do n't know him .
Who 's he ? ''
cried the captain .
And we could hear him adding to himself , `` Cap'n , is it ?
My heart , and here 's promotion ! ''
Long John answered for himself .
`` Me , sir .
These poor lads have chosen me cap'n , after your desertion , sir '' -- laying a particular emphasis upon the word `` desertion . ''
`` We 're willing to submit , if we can come to terms , and no bones about it .
All I ask is your word , Cap'n Smollett , to let me safe and sound out of this here stockade , and one minute to get out o ' shot before a gun is fired . ''
`` My man , '' said Captain Smollett , `` I have not the slightest desire to talk to you .
If you wish to talk to me , you can come , that 's all .
If there 's any treachery , it 'll be on your side , and the Lord help you . ''
`` That 's enough , cap'n , '' shouted Long John cheerily .
`` A word from you 's enough .
I know a gentleman , and you may lay to that . ''
We could see the man who carried the flag of truce attempting to hold Silver back .
Nor was that wonderful , seeing how cavalier had been the captain 's answer .
But Silver laughed at him aloud and slapped him on the back as if the idea of alarm had been absurd .
Then he advanced to the stockade , threw over his crutch , got a leg up , and with great vigour and skill succeeded in surmounting the fence and dropping safely to the other side .
I will confess that I was far too much taken up with what was going on to be of the slightest use as sentry ; indeed , I had already deserted my eastern loophole and crept up behind the captain , who had now seated himself on the threshold , with his elbows on his knees , his head in his hands , and his eyes fixed on the water as it bubbled out of the old iron kettle in the sand .
He was whistling `` Come , Lasses and Lads . ''
Silver had terrible hard work getting up the knoll .
What with the steepness of the incline , the thick tree stumps , and the soft sand , he and his crutch were as helpless as a ship in stays .
But he stuck to it like a man in silence , and at last arrived before the captain , whom he saluted in the handsomest style .
He was tricked out in his best ; an immense blue coat , thick with brass buttons , hung as low as to his knees , and a fine laced hat was set on the back of his head .
`` Here you are , my man , '' said the captain , raising his head .
`` You had better sit down . ''
`` You ai n't a-going to let me inside , cap'n ? ''
complained Long John .
`` It 's a main cold morning , to be sure , sir , to sit outside upon the sand . ''
`` Why , Silver , '' said the captain , `` if you had pleased to be an honest man , you might have been sitting in your galley .
It 's your own doing .
You 're either my ship 's cook -- and then you were treated handsome -- or Cap'n Silver , a common mutineer and pirate , and then you can go hang ! ''
`` Well , well , cap'n , '' returned the sea-cook , sitting down as he was bidden on the sand , `` you 'll have to give me a hand up again , that 's all .
A sweet pretty place you have of it here .
Ah , there 's Jim !
The top of the morning to you , Jim .
Doctor , here 's my service .
Why , there you all are together like a happy family , in a manner of speaking . ''
`` If you have anything to say , my man , better say it , '' said the captain .
`` Right you were , Cap'n Smollett , '' replied Silver .
`` Dooty is dooty , to be sure .
Well now , you look here , that was a good lay of yours last night .
I do n't deny it was a good lay .
Some of you pretty handy with a handspike-end .
And I 'll not deny neither but what some of my people was shook -- maybe all was shook ; maybe I was shook myself ; maybe that 's why I 'm here for terms .
But you mark me , cap'n , it wo n't do twice , by thunder !
We 'll have to do sentry-go and ease off a point or so on the rum .
Maybe you think we were all a sheet in the wind 's eye .
But I 'll tell you I was sober ; I was on ' y dog tired ; and if I 'd awoke a second sooner , I 'd ' a caught you at the act , I would .
He was n't dead when I got round to him , not he . ''
`` Well ? ''
says Captain Smollett as cool as can be .
All that Silver said was a riddle to him , but you would never have guessed it from his tone .
As for me , I began to have an inkling .
Ben Gunn 's last words came back to my mind .
I began to suppose that he had paid the buccaneers a visit while they all lay drunk together round their fire , and I reckoned up with glee that we had only fourteen enemies to deal with .
`` Well , here it is , '' said Silver .
`` We want that treasure , and we 'll have it -- that 's our point !
You would just as soon save your lives , I reckon ; and that 's yours .
You have a chart , have n't you ? ''
`` That 's as may be , '' replied the captain .
`` Oh , well , you have , I know that , '' returned Long John .
`` You need n't be so husky with a man ; there ai n't a particle of service in that , and you may lay to it .
What I mean is , we want your chart .
Now , I never meant you no harm , myself . ''
`` That wo n't do with me , my man , '' interrupted the captain .
`` We know exactly what you meant to do , and we do n't care , for now , you see , you ca n't do it . ''
And the captain looked at him calmly and proceeded to fill a pipe .
`` If Abe Gray -- '' Silver broke out .
`` Avast there ! ''
cried Mr. Smollett .
`` Gray told me nothing , and I asked him nothing ; and what 's more , I would see you and him and this whole island blown clean out of the water into blazes first .
So there 's my mind for you , my man , on that . ''
This little whiff of temper seemed to cool Silver down .
He had been growing nettled before , but now he pulled himself together .
`` Like enough , '' said he .
`` I would set no limits to what gentlemen might consider shipshape , or might not , as the case were .
And seein ' as how you are about to take a pipe , cap'n , I 'll make so free as do likewise . ''
And he filled a pipe and lighted it ; and the two men sat silently smoking for quite a while , now looking each other in the face , now stopping their tobacco , now leaning forward to spit .
It was as good as the play to see them .
`` Now , '' resumed Silver , `` here it is .
You give us the chart to get the treasure by , and drop shooting poor seamen and stoving of their heads in while asleep .
You do that , and we 'll offer you a choice .
Either you come aboard along of us , once the treasure shipped , and then I 'll give you my affy-davy , upon my word of honour , to clap you somewhere safe ashore .
Or if that ai n't to your fancy , some of my hands being rough and having old scores on account of hazing , then you can stay here , you can .
We 'll divide stores with you , man for man ; and I 'll give my affy-davy , as before to speak the first ship I sight , and send 'em here to pick you up .
Now , you 'll own that 's talking .
Handsomer you could n't look to get , now you .
And I hope '' -- raising his voice -- `` that all hands in this here block house will overhaul my words , for what is spoke to one is spoke to all . ''
Captain Smollett rose from his seat and knocked out the ashes of his pipe in the palm of his left hand .
`` Is that all ? ''
he asked .
`` Every last word , by thunder ! ''
answered John .
`` Refuse that , and you 've seen the last of me but musket-balls . ''
`` Very good , '' said the captain .
`` Now you 'll hear me .
If you 'll come up one by one , unarmed , I 'll engage to clap you all in irons and take you home to a fair trial in England .
If you wo n't , my name is Alexander Smollett , I 've flown my sovereign 's colours , and I 'll see you all to Davy Jones .
You ca n't find the treasure .
You ca n't sail the ship -- there 's not a man among you fit to sail the ship .
You ca n't fight us -- Gray , there , got away from five of you .
Your ship 's in irons , Master Silver ; you 're on a lee shore , and so you 'll find .
I stand here and tell you so ; and they 're the last good words you 'll get from me , for in the name of heaven , I 'll put a bullet in your back when next I meet you .
Tramp , my lad .
Bundle out of this , please , hand over hand , and double quick . ''
Silver 's face was a picture ; his eyes started in his head with wrath .
He shook the fire out of his pipe .
`` Give me a hand up ! ''
he cried .
`` Not I , '' returned the captain .
`` Who 'll give me a hand up ? ''
he roared .
Not a man among us moved .
Growling the foulest imprecations , he crawled along the sand till he got hold of the porch and could hoist himself again upon his crutch .
Then he spat into the spring .
`` There ! ''
he cried .
`` That 's what I think of ye .
Before an hour 's out , I 'll stove in your old block house like a rum puncheon .
Laugh , by thunder , laugh !
Before an hour 's out , ye 'll laugh upon the other side .
Them that die 'll be the lucky ones . ''
And with a dreadful oath he stumbled off , ploughed down the sand , was helped across the stockade , after four or five failures , by the man with the flag of truce , and disappeared in an instant afterwards among the trees .
21 The Attack AS soon as Silver disappeared , the captain , who had been closely watching him , turned towards the interior of the house and found not a man of us at his post but Gray .
It was the first time we had ever seen him angry .
`` Quarters ! ''
he roared .
And then , as we all slunk back to our places , `` Gray , '' he said , `` I 'll put your name in the log ; you 've stood by your duty like a seaman .
Mr. Trelawney , I 'm surprised at you , sir .
Doctor , I thought you had worn the king 's coat !
If that was how you served at Fontenoy , sir , you 'd have been better in your berth . ''
The doctor 's watch were all back at their loopholes , the rest were busy loading the spare muskets , and everyone with a red face , you may be certain , and a flea in his ear , as the saying is .
The captain looked on for a while in silence .
Then he spoke .
`` My lads , '' said he , `` I 've given Silver a broadside .
I pitched it in red-hot on purpose ; and before the hour 's out , as he said , we shall be boarded .
We 're outnumbered , I need n't tell you that , but we fight in shelter ; and a minute ago I should have said we fought with discipline .
I 've no manner of doubt that we can drub them , if you choose . ''
Then he went the rounds and saw , as he said , that all was clear .
On the two short sides of the house , east and west , there were only two loopholes ; on the south side where the porch was , two again ; and on the north side , five .
There was a round score of muskets for the seven of us ; the firewood had been built into four piles -- tables , you might say -- one about the middle of each side , and on each of these tables some ammunition and four loaded muskets were laid ready to the hand of the defenders .
In the middle , the cutlasses lay ranged .
`` Toss out the fire , '' said the captain ; `` the chill is past , and we must n't have smoke in our eyes . ''
The iron fire-basket was carried bodily out by Mr. Trelawney , and the embers smothered among sand .
`` Hawkins has n't had his breakfast .
Hawkins , help yourself , and back to your post to eat it , '' continued Captain Smollett .
`` Lively , now , my lad ; you 'll want it before you 've done .
Hunter , serve out a round of brandy to all hands . ''
And while this was going on , the captain completed , in his own mind , the plan of the defence .
`` Doctor , you will take the door , '' he resumed .
`` See , and do n't expose yourself ; keep within , and fire through the porch .
Hunter , take the east side , there .
Joyce , you stand by the west , my man .
Mr. Trelawney , you are the best shot -- you and Gray will take this long north side , with the five loopholes ; it 's there the danger is .
If they can get up to it and fire in upon us through our own ports , things would begin to look dirty .
Hawkins , neither you nor I are much account at the shooting ; we 'll stand by to load and bear a hand . ''
As the captain had said , the chill was past .
As soon as the sun had climbed above our girdle of trees , it fell with all its force upon the clearing and drank up the vapours at a draught .
Soon the sand was baking and the resin melting in the logs of the block house .
Jackets and coats were flung aside , shirts thrown open at the neck and rolled up to the shoulders ; and we stood there , each at his post , in a fever of heat and anxiety .
An hour passed away .
`` Hang them ! ''
said the captain .
`` This is as dull as the doldrums .
Gray , whistle for a wind . ''
And just at that moment came the first news of the attack .
`` If you please , sir , '' said Joyce , `` if I see anyone , am I to fire ? ''
`` I told you so ! ''
cried the captain .
`` Thank you , sir , '' returned Joyce with the same quiet civility .
Nothing followed for a time , but the remark had set us all on the alert , straining ears and eyes -- the musketeers with their pieces balanced in their hands , the captain out in the middle of the block house with his mouth very tight and a frown on his face .
So some seconds passed , till suddenly Joyce whipped up his musket and fired .
The report had scarcely died away ere it was repeated and repeated from without in a scattering volley , shot behind shot , like a string of geese , from every side of the enclosure .
Several bullets struck the log-house , but not one entered ; and as the smoke cleared away and vanished , the stockade and the woods around it looked as quiet and empty as before .
Not a bough waved , not the gleam of a musket-barrel betrayed the presence of our foes .
`` Did you hit your man ? ''
asked the captain .
`` No , sir , '' replied Joyce .
`` I believe not , sir . ''
`` Next best thing to tell the truth , '' muttered Captain Smollett .
`` Load his gun , Hawkins .
How many should say there were on your side , doctor ? ''
`` I know precisely , '' said Dr. Livesey .
`` Three shots were fired on this side .
I saw the three flashes -- two close together -- one farther to the west . ''
`` Three ! ''
repeated the captain .
`` And how many on yours , Mr. Trelawney ? ''
But this was not so easily answered .
There had come many from the north -- seven by the squire 's computation , eight or nine according to Gray .
From the east and west only a single shot had been fired .
It was plain , therefore , that the attack would be developed from the north and that on the other three sides we were only to be annoyed by a show of hostilities .
But Captain Smollett made no change in his arrangements .
If the mutineers succeeded in crossing the stockade , he argued , they would take possession of any unprotected loophole and shoot us down like rats in our own stronghold .
Nor had we much time left to us for thought .
Suddenly , with a loud huzza , a little cloud of pirates leaped from the woods on the north side and ran straight on the stockade .
At the same moment , the fire was once more opened from the woods , and a rifle ball sang through the doorway and knocked the doctor 's musket into bits .
The boarders swarmed over the fence like monkeys .
Squire and Gray fired again and yet again ; three men fell , one forwards into the enclosure , two back on the outside .
But of these , one was evidently more frightened than hurt , for he was on his feet again in a crack and instantly disappeared among the trees .
Two had bit the dust , one had fled , four had made good their footing inside our defences , while from the shelter of the woods seven or eight men , each evidently supplied with several muskets , kept up a hot though useless fire on the log-house .
The four who had boarded made straight before them for the building , shouting as they ran , and the men among the trees shouted back to encourage them .
Several shots were fired , but such was the hurry of the marksmen that not one appears to have taken effect .
In a moment , the four pirates had swarmed up the mound and were upon us .
The head of Job Anderson , the boatswain , appeared at the middle loophole .
`` At 'em , all hands -- all hands ! ''
he roared in a voice of thunder .
At the same moment , another pirate grasped Hunter 's musket by the muzzle , wrenched it from his hands , plucked it through the loophole , and with one stunning blow , laid the poor fellow senseless on the floor .
Meanwhile a third , running unharmed all around the house , appeared suddenly in the doorway and fell with his cutlass on the doctor .
Our position was utterly reversed .
A moment since we were firing , under cover , at an exposed enemy ; now it was we who lay uncovered and could not return a blow .
The log-house was full of smoke , to which we owed our comparative safety .
Cries and confusion , the flashes and reports of pistol-shots , and one loud groan rang in my ears .
`` Out , lads , out , and fight 'em in the open !
Cutlasses ! ''
cried the captain .
I snatched a cutlass from the pile , and someone , at the same time snatching another , gave me a cut across the knuckles which I hardly felt .
I dashed out of the door into the clear sunlight .
Someone was close behind , I knew not whom .
Right in front , the doctor was pursuing his assailant down the hill , and just as my eyes fell upon him , beat down his guard and sent him sprawling on his back with a great slash across the face .
`` Round the house , lads !
Round the house ! ''
cried the captain ; and even in the hurly-burly , I perceived a change in his voice .
Mechanically , I obeyed , turned eastwards , and with my cutlass raised , ran round the corner of the house .
Next moment I was face to face with Anderson .
He roared aloud , and his hanger went up above his head , flashing in the sunlight .
I had not time to be afraid , but as the blow still hung impending , leaped in a trice upon one side , and missing my foot in the soft sand , rolled headlong down the slope .
When I had first sallied from the door , the other mutineers had been already swarming up the palisade to make an end of us .
One man , in a red night-cap , with his cutlass in his mouth , had even got upon the top and thrown a leg across .
Well , so short had been the interval that when I found my feet again all was in the same posture , the fellow with the red night-cap still half-way over , another still just showing his head above the top of the stockade .
And yet , in this breath of time , the fight was over and the victory was ours .
Gray , following close behind me , had cut down the big boatswain ere he had time to recover from his last blow .
Another had been shot at a loophole in the very act of firing into the house and now lay in agony , the pistol still smoking in his hand .
A third , as I had seen , the doctor had disposed of at a blow .
Of the four who had scaled the palisade , one only remained unaccounted for , and he , having left his cutlass on the field , was now clambering out again with the fear of death upon him .
`` Fire -- fire from the house ! ''
cried the doctor .
`` And you , lads , back into cover . ''
But his words were unheeded , no shot was fired , and the last boarder made good his escape and disappeared with the rest into the wood .
In three seconds nothing remained of the attacking party but the five who had fallen , four on the inside and one on the outside of the palisade .
The doctor and Gray and I ran full speed for shelter .
The survivors would soon be back where they had left their muskets , and at any moment the fire might recommence .
The house was by this time somewhat cleared of smoke , and we saw at a glance the price we had paid for victory .
Hunter lay beside his loophole , stunned ; Joyce by his , shot through the head , never to move again ; while right in the centre , the squire was supporting the captain , one as pale as the other .
`` The captain 's wounded , '' said Mr. Trelawney .
`` Have they run ? ''
asked Mr. Smollett .
`` All that could , you may be bound , '' returned the doctor ; `` but there 's five of them will never run again . ''
`` Five ! ''
cried the captain .
`` Come , that 's better .
Five against three leaves us four to nine .
That 's better odds than we had at starting .
We were seven to nineteen then , or thought we were , and that 's as bad to bear . ''
* * The mutineers were soon only eight in number , for the man shot by Mr. Trelawney on board the schooner died that same evening of his wound .
But this was , of course , not known till after by the faithful party .
PART FIVE -- My Sea Adventure 22 How My Sea Adventure Began THERE was no return of the mutineers -- not so much as another shot out of the woods .
They had `` got their rations for that day , '' as the captain put it , and we had the place to ourselves and a quiet time to overhaul the wounded and get dinner .
Squire and I cooked outside in spite of the danger , and even outside we could hardly tell what we were at , for horror of the loud groans that reached us from the doctor 's patients .
Out of the eight men who had fallen in the action , only three still breathed -- that one of the pirates who had been shot at the loophole , Hunter , and Captain Smollett ; and of these , the first two were as good as dead ; the mutineer indeed died under the doctor 's knife , and Hunter , do what we could , never recovered consciousness in this world .
He lingered all day , breathing loudly like the old buccaneer at home in his apoplectic fit , but the bones of his chest had been crushed by the blow and his skull fractured in falling , and some time in the following night , without sign or sound , he went to his Maker .
As for the captain , his wounds were grievous indeed , but not dangerous .
No organ was fatally injured .
Anderson 's ball -- for it was Job that shot him first -- had broken his shoulder-blade and touched the lung , not badly ; the second had only torn and displaced some muscles in the calf .
He was sure to recover , the doctor said , but in the meantime , and for weeks to come , he must not walk nor move his arm , nor so much as speak when he could help it .
My own accidental cut across the knuckles was a flea-bite .
Doctor Livesey patched it up with plaster and pulled my ears for me into the bargain .
After dinner the squire and the doctor sat by the captain 's side awhile in consultation ; and when they had talked to their hearts ' content , it being then a little past noon , the doctor took up his hat and pistols , girt on a cutlass , put the chart in his pocket , and with a musket over his shoulder crossed the palisade on the north side and set off briskly through the trees .
Gray and I were sitting together at the far end of the block house , to be out of earshot of our officers consulting ; and Gray took his pipe out of his mouth and fairly forgot to put it back again , so thunder-struck he was at this occurrence .
`` Why , in the name of Davy Jones , '' said he , `` is Dr. Livesey mad ? ''
`` Why no , '' says I. `` He 's about the last of this crew for that , I take it . ''
`` Well , shipmate , '' said Gray , `` mad he may not be ; but if HE 'S not , you mark my words , I am . ''
`` I take it , '' replied I , `` the doctor has his idea ; and if I am right , he 's going now to see Ben Gunn . ''
I was right , as appeared later ; but in the meantime , the house being stifling hot and the little patch of sand inside the palisade ablaze with midday sun , I began to get another thought into my head , which was not by any means so right .
What I began to do was to envy the doctor walking in the cool shadow of the woods with the birds about him and the pleasant smell of the pines , while I sat grilling , with my clothes stuck to the hot resin , and so much blood about me and so many poor dead bodies lying all around that I took a disgust of the place that was almost as strong as fear .
All the time I was washing out the block house , and then washing up the things from dinner , this disgust and envy kept growing stronger and stronger , till at last , being near a bread-bag , and no one then observing me , I took the first step towards my escapade and filled both pockets of my coat with biscuit .
I was a fool , if you like , and certainly I was going to do a foolish , over-bold act ; but I was determined to do it with all the precautions in my power .
These biscuits , should anything befall me , would keep me , at least , from starving till far on in the next day .
The next thing I laid hold of was a brace of pistols , and as I already had a powder-horn and bullets , I felt myself well supplied with arms .
As for the scheme I had in my head , it was not a bad one in itself .
I was to go down the sandy spit that divides the anchorage on the east from the open sea , find the white rock I had observed last evening , and ascertain whether it was there or not that Ben Gunn had hidden his boat , a thing quite worth doing , as I still believe .
But as I was certain I should not be allowed to leave the enclosure , my only plan was to take French leave and slip out when nobody was watching , and that was so bad a way of doing it as made the thing itself wrong .
But I was only a boy , and I had made my mind up .
Well , as things at last fell out , I found an admirable opportunity .
The squire and Gray were busy helping the captain with his bandages , the coast was clear , I made a bolt for it over the stockade and into the thickest of the trees , and before my absence was observed I was out of cry of my companions .
This was my second folly , far worse than the first , as I left but two sound men to guard the house ; but like the first , it was a help towards saving all of us .
I took my way straight for the east coast of the island , for I was determined to go down the sea side of the spit to avoid all chance of observation from the anchorage .
It was already late in the afternoon , although still warm and sunny .
As I continued to thread the tall woods , I could hear from far before me not only the continuous thunder of the surf , but a certain tossing of foliage and grinding of boughs which showed me the sea breeze had set in higher than usual .
Soon cool draughts of air began to reach me , and a few steps farther I came forth into the open borders of the grove , and saw the sea lying blue and sunny to the horizon and the surf tumbling and tossing its foam along the beach .
I have never seen the sea quiet round Treasure Island .
The sun might blaze overhead , the air be without a breath , the surface smooth and blue , but still these great rollers would be running along all the external coast , thundering and thundering by day and night ; and I scarce believe there is one spot in the island where a man would be out of earshot of their noise .
I walked along beside the surf with great enjoyment , till , thinking I was now got far enough to the south , I took the cover of some thick bushes and crept warily up to the ridge of the spit .
Behind me was the sea , in front the anchorage .
The sea breeze , as though it had the sooner blown itself out by its unusual violence , was already at an end ; it had been succeeded by light , variable airs from the south and south-east , carrying great banks of fog ; and the anchorage , under lee of Skeleton Island , lay still and leaden as when first we entered it .
The HISPANIOLA , in that unbroken mirror , was exactly portrayed from the truck to the waterline , the Jolly Roger hanging from her peak .
Alongside lay one of the gigs , Silver in the stern-sheets -- him I could always recognize -- while a couple of men were leaning over the stern bulwarks , one of them with a red cap -- the very rogue that I had seen some hours before stride-legs upon the palisade .
Apparently they were talking and laughing , though at that distance -- upwards of a mile -- I could , of course , hear no word of what was said .
All at once there began the most horrid , unearthly screaming , which at first startled me badly , though I had soon remembered the voice of Captain Flint and even thought I could make out the bird by her bright plumage as she sat perched upon her master 's wrist .
Soon after , the jolly-boat shoved off and pulled for shore , and the man with the red cap and his comrade went below by the cabin companion .
Just about the same time , the sun had gone down behind the Spy-glass , and as the fog was collecting rapidly , it began to grow dark in earnest .
I saw I must lose no time if I were to find the boat that evening .
The white rock , visible enough above the brush , was still some eighth of a mile further down the spit , and it took me a goodish while to get up with it , crawling , often on all fours , among the scrub .
Night had almost come when I laid my hand on its rough sides .
Right below it there was an exceedingly small hollow of green turf , hidden by banks and a thick underwood about knee-deep , that grew there very plentifully ; and in the centre of the dell , sure enough , a little tent of goat-skins , like what the gipsies carry about with them in England .
I dropped into the hollow , lifted the side of the tent , and there was Ben Gunn 's boat -- home-made if ever anything was home-made ; a rude , lop-sided framework of tough wood , and stretched upon that a covering of goat-skin , with the hair inside .
The thing was extremely small , even for me , and I can hardly imagine that it could have floated with a full-sized man .
There was one thwart set as low as possible , a kind of stretcher in the bows , and a double paddle for propulsion .
I had not then seen a coracle , such as the ancient Britons made , but I have seen one since , and I can give you no fairer idea of Ben Gunn 's boat than by saying it was like the first and the worst coracle ever made by man .
But the great advantage of the coracle it certainly possessed , for it was exceedingly light and portable .
Well , now that I had found the boat , you would have thought I had had enough of truantry for once , but in the meantime I had taken another notion and become so obstinately fond of it that I would have carried it out , I believe , in the teeth of Captain Smollett himself .
This was to slip out under cover of the night , cut the HISPANIOLA adrift , and let her go ashore where she fancied .
I had quite made up my mind that the mutineers , after their repulse of the morning , had nothing nearer their hearts than to up anchor and away to sea ; this , I thought , it would be a fine thing to prevent , and now that I had seen how they left their watchmen unprovided with a boat , I thought it might be done with little risk .
Down I sat to wait for darkness , and made a hearty meal of biscuit .
It was a night out of ten thousand for my purpose .
The fog had now buried all heaven .
As the last rays of daylight dwindled and disappeared , absolute blackness settled down on Treasure Island .
And when , at last , I shouldered the coracle and groped my way stumblingly out of the hollow where I had supped , there were but two points visible on the whole anchorage .
One was the great fire on shore , by which the defeated pirates lay carousing in the swamp .
The other , a mere blur of light upon the darkness , indicated the position of the anchored ship .
She had swung round to the ebb -- her bow was now towards me -- the only lights on board were in the cabin , and what I saw was merely a reflection on the fog of the strong rays that flowed from the stern window .
The ebb had already run some time , and I had to wade through a long belt of swampy sand , where I sank several times above the ankle , before I came to the edge of the retreating water , and wading a little way in , with some strength and dexterity , set my coracle , keel downwards , on the surface .
23 The Ebb-tide Runs THE coracle -- as I had ample reason to know before I was done with her -- was a very safe boat for a person of my height and weight , both buoyant and clever in a seaway ; but she was the most cross-grained , lop-sided craft to manage .
Do as you pleased , she always made more leeway than anything else , and turning round and round was the manoeuvre she was best at .
Even Ben Gunn himself has admitted that she was `` queer to handle till you knew her way . ''
Certainly I did not know her way .
She turned in every direction but the one I was bound to go ; the most part of the time we were broadside on , and I am very sure I never should have made the ship at all but for the tide .
By good fortune , paddle as I pleased , the tide was still sweeping me down ; and there lay the HISPANIOLA right in the fairway , hardly to be missed .
First she loomed before me like a blot of something yet blacker than darkness , then her spars and hull began to take shape , and the next moment , as it seemed -LRB- for , the farther I went , the brisker grew the current of the ebb -RRB- , I was alongside of her hawser and had laid hold .
The hawser was as taut as a bowstring , and the current so strong she pulled upon her anchor .
All round the hull , in the blackness , the rippling current bubbled and chattered like a little mountain stream .
One cut with my sea-gully and the HISPANIOLA would go humming down the tide .
So far so good , but it next occurred to my recollection that a taut hawser , suddenly cut , is a thing as dangerous as a kicking horse .
Ten to one , if I were so foolhardy as to cut the HISPANIOLA from her anchor , I and the coracle would be knocked clean out of the water .
This brought me to a full stop , and if fortune had not again particularly favoured me , I should have had to abandon my design .
But the light airs which had begun blowing from the south-east and south had hauled round after nightfall into the south-west .
Just while I was meditating , a puff came , caught the HISPANIOLA , and forced her up into the current ; and to my great joy , I felt the hawser slacken in my grasp , and the hand by which I held it dip for a second under water .
With that I made my mind up , took out my gully , opened it with my teeth , and cut one strand after another , till the vessel swung only by two .
Then I lay quiet , waiting to sever these last when the strain should be once more lightened by a breath of wind .
All this time I had heard the sound of loud voices from the cabin , but to say truth , my mind had been so entirely taken up with other thoughts that I had scarcely given ear .
Now , however , when I had nothing else to do , I began to pay more heed .
One I recognized for the coxswain 's , Israel Hands , that had been Flint 's gunner in former days .
The other was , of course , my friend of the red night-cap .
Both men were plainly the worse of drink , and they were still drinking , for even while I was listening , one of them , with a drunken cry , opened the stern window and threw out something , which I divined to be an empty bottle .
But they were not only tipsy ; it was plain that they were furiously angry .
Oaths flew like hailstones , and every now and then there came forth such an explosion as I thought was sure to end in blows .
But each time the quarrel passed off and the voices grumbled lower for a while , until the next crisis came and in its turn passed away without result .
On shore , I could see the glow of the great camp-fire burning warmly through the shore-side trees .
Someone was singing , a dull , old , droning sailor 's song , with a droop and a quaver at the end of every verse , and seemingly no end to it at all but the patience of the singer .
I had heard it on the voyage more than once and remembered these words : `` But one man of her crew alive , What put to sea with seventy-five . ''
And I thought it was a ditty rather too dolefully appropriate for a company that had met such cruel losses in the morning .
But , indeed , from what I saw , all these buccaneers were as callous as the sea they sailed on .
At last the breeze came ; the schooner sidled and drew nearer in the dark ; I felt the hawser slacken once more , and with a good , tough effort , cut the last fibres through .
The breeze had but little action on the coracle , and I was almost instantly swept against the bows of the HISPANIOLA .
At the same time , the schooner began to turn upon her heel , spinning slowly , end for end , across the current .
I wrought like a fiend , for I expected every moment to be swamped ; and since I found I could not push the coracle directly off , I now shoved straight astern .
At length I was clear of my dangerous neighbour , and just as I gave the last impulsion , my hands came across a light cord that was trailing overboard across the stern bulwarks .
Instantly I grasped it .
Why I should have done so I can hardly say .
It was at first mere instinct , but once I had it in my hands and found it fast , curiosity began to get the upper hand , and I determined I should have one look through the cabin window .
I pulled in hand over hand on the cord , and when I judged myself near enough , rose at infinite risk to about half my height and thus commanded the roof and a slice of the interior of the cabin .
By this time the schooner and her little consort were gliding pretty swiftly through the water ; indeed , we had already fetched up level with the camp-fire .
The ship was talking , as sailors say , loudly , treading the innumerable ripples with an incessant weltering splash ; and until I got my eye above the window-sill I could not comprehend why the watchmen had taken no alarm .
One glance , however , was sufficient ; and it was only one glance that I durst take from that unsteady skiff .
It showed me Hands and his companion locked together in deadly wrestle , each with a hand upon the other 's throat .
I dropped upon the thwart again , none too soon , for I was near overboard .
I could see nothing for the moment but these two furious , encrimsoned faces swaying together under the smoky lamp , and I shut my eyes to let them grow once more familiar with the darkness .
The endless ballad had come to an end at last , and the whole diminished company about the camp-fire had broken into the chorus I had heard so often : `` Fifteen men on the dead man 's chest -- Yo-ho-ho , and a bottle of rum !
Drink and the devil had done for the rest -- Yo-ho-ho , and a bottle of rum ! ''
I was just thinking how busy drink and the devil were at that very moment in the cabin of the HISPANIOLA , when I was surprised by a sudden lurch of the coracle .
At the same moment , she yawed sharply and seemed to change her course .
The speed in the meantime had strangely increased .
I opened my eyes at once .
All round me were little ripples , combing over with a sharp , bristling sound and slightly phosphorescent .
The HISPANIOLA herself , a few yards in whose wake I was still being whirled along , seemed to stagger in her course , and I saw her spars toss a little against the blackness of the night ; nay , as I looked longer , I made sure she also was wheeling to the southward .
I glanced over my shoulder , and my heart jumped against my ribs .
There , right behind me , was the glow of the camp-fire .
The current had turned at right angles , sweeping round along with it the tall schooner and the little dancing coracle ; ever quickening , ever bubbling higher , ever muttering louder , it went spinning through the narrows for the open sea .
Suddenly the schooner in front of me gave a violent yaw , turning , perhaps , through twenty degrees ; and almost at the same moment one shout followed another from on board ; I could hear feet pounding on the companion ladder and I knew that the two drunkards had at last been interrupted in their quarrel and awakened to a sense of their disaster .
I lay down flat in the bottom of that wretched skiff and devoutly recommended my spirit to its Maker .
At the end of the straits , I made sure we must fall into some bar of raging breakers , where all my troubles would be ended speedily ; and though I could , perhaps , bear to die , I could not bear to look upon my fate as it approached .
So I must have lain for hours , continually beaten to and fro upon the billows , now and again wetted with flying sprays , and never ceasing to expect death at the next plunge .
Gradually weariness grew upon me ; a numbness , an occasional stupor , fell upon my mind even in the midst of my terrors , until sleep at last supervened and in my sea-tossed coracle I lay and dreamed of home and the old Admiral Benbow .
24 The Cruise of the Coracle IT was broad day when I awoke and found myself tossing at the south-west end of Treasure Island .
The sun was up but was still hid from me behind the great bulk of the Spy-glass , which on this side descended almost to the sea in formidable cliffs .
Haulbowline Head and Mizzen-mast Hill were at my elbow , the hill bare and dark , the head bound with cliffs forty or fifty feet high and fringed with great masses of fallen rock .
I was scarce a quarter of a mile to seaward , and it was my first thought to paddle in and land .
That notion was soon given over .
Among the fallen rocks the breakers spouted and bellowed ; loud reverberations , heavy sprays flying and falling , succeeded one another from second to second ; and I saw myself , if I ventured nearer , dashed to death upon the rough shore or spending my strength in vain to scale the beetling crags .
Nor was that all , for crawling together on flat tables of rock or letting themselves drop into the sea with loud reports I beheld huge slimy monsters -- soft snails , as it were , of incredible bigness -- two or three score of them together , making the rocks to echo with their barkings .
I have understood since that they were sea lions , and entirely harmless .
But the look of them , added to the difficulty of the shore and the high running of the surf , was more than enough to disgust me of that landing-place .
I felt willing rather to starve at sea than to confront such perils .
In the meantime I had a better chance , as I supposed , before me .
North of Haulbowline Head , the land runs in a long way , leaving at low tide a long stretch of yellow sand .
To the north of that , again , there comes another cape -- Cape of the Woods , as it was marked upon the chart -- buried in tall green pines , which descended to the margin of the sea .
I remembered what Silver had said about the current that sets northward along the whole west coast of Treasure Island , and seeing from my position that I was already under its influence , I preferred to leave Haulbowline Head behind me and reserve my strength for an attempt to land upon the kindlier-looking Cape of the Woods .
There was a great , smooth swell upon the sea .
The wind blowing steady and gentle from the south , there was no contrariety between that and the current , and the billows rose and fell unbroken .
Had it been otherwise , I must long ago have perished ; but as it was , it is surprising how easily and securely my little and light boat could ride .
Often , as I still lay at the bottom and kept no more than an eye above the gunwale , I would see a big blue summit heaving close above me ; yet the coracle would but bounce a little , dance as if on springs , and subside on the other side into the trough as lightly as a bird .
I began after a little to grow very bold and sat up to try my skill at paddling .
But even a small change in the disposition of the weight will produce violent changes in the behaviour of a coracle .
And I had hardly moved before the boat , giving up at once her gentle dancing movement , ran straight down a slope of water so steep that it made me giddy , and struck her nose , with a spout of spray , deep into the side of the next wave .
I was drenched and terrified , and fell instantly back into my old position , whereupon the coracle seemed to find her head again and led me as softly as before among the billows .
It was plain she was not to be interfered with , and at that rate , since I could in no way influence her course , what hope had I left of reaching land ?
I began to be horribly frightened , but I kept my head , for all that .
First , moving with all care , I gradually baled out the coracle with my sea-cap ; then , getting my eye once more above the gunwale , I set myself to study how it was she managed to slip so quietly through the rollers .
I found each wave , instead of the big , smooth glossy mountain it looks from shore or from a vessel 's deck , was for all the world like any range of hills on dry land , full of peaks and smooth places and valleys .
The coracle , left to herself , turning from side to side , threaded , so to speak , her way through these lower parts and avoided the steep slopes and higher , toppling summits of the wave .
`` Well , now , '' thought I to myself , `` it is plain I must lie where I am and not disturb the balance ; but it is plain also that I can put the paddle over the side and from time to time , in smooth places , give her a shove or two towards land . ''
No sooner thought upon than done .
There I lay on my elbows in the most trying attitude , and every now and again gave a weak stroke or two to turn her head to shore .
It was very tiring and slow work , yet I did visibly gain ground ; and as we drew near the Cape of the Woods , though I saw I must infallibly miss that point , I had still made some hundred yards of easting .
I was , indeed , close in .
I could see the cool green tree-tops swaying together in the breeze , and I felt sure I should make the next promontory without fail .
It was high time , for I now began to be tortured with thirst .
The glow of the sun from above , its thousandfold reflection from the waves , the sea-water that fell and dried upon me , caking my very lips with salt , combined to make my throat burn and my brain ache .
The sight of the trees so near at hand had almost made me sick with longing , but the current had soon carried me past the point , and as the next reach of sea opened out , I beheld a sight that changed the nature of my thoughts .
Right in front of me , not half a mile away , I beheld the HISPANIOLA under sail .
I made sure , of course , that I should be taken ; but I was so distressed for want of water that I scarce knew whether to be glad or sorry at the thought , and long before I had come to a conclusion , surprise had taken entire possession of my mind and I could do nothing but stare and wonder .
The HISPANIOLA was under her main-sail and two jibs , and the beautiful white canvas shone in the sun like snow or silver .
When I first sighted her , all her sails were drawing ; she was lying a course about north-west , and I presumed the men on board were going round the island on their way back to the anchorage .
Presently she began to fetch more and more to the westward , so that I thought they had sighted me and were going about in chase .
At last , however , she fell right into the wind 's eye , was taken dead aback , and stood there awhile helpless , with her sails shivering .
`` Clumsy fellows , '' said I ; `` they must still be drunk as owls . ''
And I thought how Captain Smollett would have set them skipping .
Meanwhile the schooner gradually fell off and filled again upon another tack , sailed swiftly for a minute or so , and brought up once more dead in the wind 's eye .
Again and again was this repeated .
To and fro , up and down , north , south , east , and west , the HISPANIOLA sailed by swoops and dashes , and at each repetition ended as she had begun , with idly flapping canvas .
It became plain to me that nobody was steering .
And if so , where were the men ?
Either they were dead drunk or had deserted her , I thought , and perhaps if I could get on board I might return the vessel to her captain .
The current was bearing coracle and schooner southward at an equal rate .
As for the latter 's sailing , it was so wild and intermittent , and she hung each time so long in irons , that she certainly gained nothing , if she did not even lose .
If only I dared to sit up and paddle , I made sure that I could overhaul her .
The scheme had an air of adventure that inspired me , and the thought of the water breaker beside the fore companion doubled my growing courage .
Up I got , was welcomed almost instantly by another cloud of spray , but this time stuck to my purpose and set myself , with all my strength and caution , to paddle after the unsteered HISPANIOLA .
Once I shipped a sea so heavy that I had to stop and bail , with my heart fluttering like a bird , but gradually I got into the way of the thing and guided my coracle among the waves , with only now and then a blow upon her bows and a dash of foam in my face .
I was now gaining rapidly on the schooner ; I could see the brass glisten on the tiller as it banged about , and still no soul appeared upon her decks .
I could not choose but suppose she was deserted .
If not , the men were lying drunk below , where I might batten them down , perhaps , and do what I chose with the ship .
For some time she had been doing the worse thing possible for me -- standing still .
She headed nearly due south , yawing , of course , all the time .
Each time she fell off , her sails partly filled , and these brought her in a moment right to the wind again .
I have said this was the worst thing possible for me , for helpless as she looked in this situation , with the canvas cracking like cannon and the blocks trundling and banging on the deck , she still continued to run away from me , not only with the speed of the current , but by the whole amount of her leeway , which was naturally great .
But now , at last , I had my chance .
The breeze fell for some seconds , very low , and the current gradually turning her , the HISPANIOLA revolved slowly round her centre and at last presented me her stern , with the cabin window still gaping open and the lamp over the table still burning on into the day .
The main-sail hung drooped like a banner .
She was stock-still but for the current .
For the last little while I had even lost , but now redoubling my efforts , I began once more to overhaul the chase .
I was not a hundred yards from her when the wind came again in a clap ; she filled on the port tack and was off again , stooping and skimming like a swallow .
My first impulse was one of despair , but my second was towards joy .
Round she came , till she was broadside on to me -- round still till she had covered a half and then two thirds and then three quarters of the distance that separated us .
I could see the waves boiling white under her forefoot .
Immensely tall she looked to me from my low station in the coracle .
And then , of a sudden , I began to comprehend .
I had scarce time to think -- scarce time to act and save myself .
I was on the summit of one swell when the schooner came stooping over the next .
The bowsprit was over my head .
I sprang to my feet and leaped , stamping the coracle under water .
With one hand I caught the jib-boom , while my foot was lodged between the stay and the brace ; and as I still clung there panting , a dull blow told me that the schooner had charged down upon and struck the coracle and that I was left without retreat on the HISPANIOLA .
25 I Strike the Jolly Roger I HAD scarce gained a position on the bowsprit when the flying jib flapped and filled upon the other tack , with a report like a gun .
The schooner trembled to her keel under the reverse , but next moment , the other sails still drawing , the jib flapped back again and hung idle .
This had nearly tossed me off into the sea ; and now I lost no time , crawled back along the bowsprit , and tumbled head foremost on the deck .
I was on the lee side of the forecastle , and the mainsail , which was still drawing , concealed from me a certain portion of the after-deck .
Not a soul was to be seen .
The planks , which had not been swabbed since the mutiny , bore the print of many feet , and an empty bottle , broken by the neck , tumbled to and fro like a live thing in the scuppers .
Suddenly the HISPANIOLA came right into the wind .
The jibs behind me cracked aloud , the rudder slammed to , the whole ship gave a sickening heave and shudder , and at the same moment the main-boom swung inboard , the sheet groaning in the blocks , and showed me the lee after-deck .
There were the two watchmen , sure enough : red-cap on his back , as stiff as a handspike , with his arms stretched out like those of a crucifix and his teeth showing through his open lips ; Israel Hands propped against the bulwarks , his chin on his chest , his hands lying open before him on the deck , his face as white , under its tan , as a tallow candle .
For a while the ship kept bucking and sidling like a vicious horse , the sails filling , now on one tack , now on another , and the boom swinging to and fro till the mast groaned aloud under the strain .
Now and again too there would come a cloud of light sprays over the bulwark and a heavy blow of the ship 's bows against the swell ; so much heavier weather was made of it by this great rigged ship than by my home-made , lop-sided coracle , now gone to the bottom of the sea .
At every jump of the schooner , red-cap slipped to and fro , but -- what was ghastly to behold -- neither his attitude nor his fixed teeth-disclosing grin was anyway disturbed by this rough usage .
At every jump too , Hands appeared still more to sink into himself and settle down upon the deck , his feet sliding ever the farther out , and the whole body canting towards the stern , so that his face became , little by little , hid from me ; and at last I could see nothing beyond his ear and the frayed ringlet of one whisker .
At the same time , I observed , around both of them , splashes of dark blood upon the planks and began to feel sure that they had killed each other in their drunken wrath .
While I was thus looking and wondering , in a calm moment , when the ship was still , Israel Hands turned partly round and with a low moan writhed himself back to the position in which I had seen him first .
The moan , which told of pain and deadly weakness , and the way in which his jaw hung open went right to my heart .
But when I remembered the talk I had overheard from the apple barrel , all pity left me .
I walked aft until I reached the main-mast .
`` Come aboard , Mr. Hands , '' I said ironically .
He rolled his eyes round heavily , but he was too far gone to express surprise .
All he could do was to utter one word , `` Brandy . ''
It occurred to me there was no time to lose , and dodging the boom as it once more lurched across the deck , I slipped aft and down the companion stairs into the cabin .
It was such a scene of confusion as you can hardly fancy .
All the lockfast places had been broken open in quest of the chart .
The floor was thick with mud where ruffians had sat down to drink or consult after wading in the marshes round their camp .
The bulkheads , all painted in clear white and beaded round with gilt , bore a pattern of dirty hands .
Dozens of empty bottles clinked together in corners to the rolling of the ship .
One of the doctor 's medical books lay open on the table , half of the leaves gutted out , I suppose , for pipelights .
In the midst of all this the lamp still cast a smoky glow , obscure and brown as umber .
I went into the cellar ; all the barrels were gone , and of the bottles a most surprising number had been drunk out and thrown away .
Certainly , since the mutiny began , not a man of them could ever have been sober .
Foraging about , I found a bottle with some brandy left , for Hands ; and for myself I routed out some biscuit , some pickled fruits , a great bunch of raisins , and a piece of cheese .
With these I came on deck , put down my own stock behind the rudder head and well out of the coxswain 's reach , went forward to the water-breaker , and had a good deep drink of water , and then , and not till then , gave Hands the brandy .
He must have drunk a gill before he took the bottle from his mouth .
`` Aye , '' said he , `` by thunder , but I wanted some o ' that ! ''
I had sat down already in my own corner and begun to eat .
`` Much hurt ? ''
I asked him .
He grunted , or rather , I might say , he barked .
`` If that doctor was aboard , '' he said , `` I 'd be right enough in a couple of turns , but I do n't have no manner of luck , you see , and that 's what 's the matter with me .
As for that swab , he 's good and dead , he is , '' he added , indicating the man with the red cap .
`` He war n't no seaman anyhow .
And where mought you have come from ? ''
`` Well , '' said I , `` I 've come aboard to take possession of this ship , Mr. Hands ; and you 'll please regard me as your captain until further notice . ''
He looked at me sourly enough but said nothing .
Some of the colour had come back into his cheeks , though he still looked very sick and still continued to slip out and settle down as the ship banged about .
`` By the by , '' I continued , `` I ca n't have these colours , Mr. Hands ; and by your leave , I 'll strike 'em .
Better none than these . ''
And again dodging the boom , I ran to the colour lines , handed down their cursed black flag , and chucked it overboard .
`` God save the king ! ''
said I , waving my cap .
`` And there 's an end to Captain Silver ! ''
He watched me keenly and slyly , his chin all the while on his breast .
`` I reckon , '' he said at last , `` I reckon , Cap'n Hawkins , you 'll kind of want to get ashore now .
S'pose we talks . ''
`` Why , yes , '' says I , `` with all my heart , Mr. Hands .
Say on . ''
And I went back to my meal with a good appetite .
`` This man , '' he began , nodding feebly at the corpse '' -- O'Brien were his name , a rank Irelander -- this man and me got the canvas on her , meaning for to sail her back .
Well , HE 'S dead now , he is -- as dead as bilge ; and who 's to sail this ship , I do n't see .
Without I gives you a hint , you ai n't that man , as far 's I can tell .
Now , look here , you gives me food and drink and a old scarf or ankecher to tie my wound up , you do , and I 'll tell you how to sail her , and that 's about square all round , I take it . ''
`` I 'll tell you one thing , '' says I : `` I 'm not going back to Captain Kidd 's anchorage .
I mean to get into North Inlet and beach her quietly there . ''
`` To be sure you did , '' he cried .
`` Why , I ai n't sich an infernal lubber after all .
I can see , ca n't I ?
I 've tried my fling , I have , and I 've lost , and it 's you has the wind of me .
North Inlet ?
Why , I have n't no ch ` ice , not I !
I 'd help you sail her up to Execution Dock , by thunder !
So I would . ''
Well , as it seemed to me , there was some sense in this .
We struck our bargain on the spot .
In three minutes I had the HISPANIOLA sailing easily before the wind along the coast of Treasure Island , with good hopes of turning the northern point ere noon and beating down again as far as North Inlet before high water , when we might beach her safely and wait till the subsiding tide permitted us to land .
Then I lashed the tiller and went below to my own chest , where I got a soft silk handkerchief of my mother 's .
With this , and with my aid , Hands bound up the great bleeding stab he had received in the thigh , and after he had eaten a little and had a swallow or two more of the brandy , he began to pick up visibly , sat straighter up , spoke louder and clearer , and looked in every way another man .
The breeze served us admirably .
We skimmed before it like a bird , the coast of the island flashing by and the view changing every minute .
Soon we were past the high lands and bowling beside low , sandy country , sparsely dotted with dwarf pines , and soon we were beyond that again and had turned the corner of the rocky hill that ends the island on the north .
I was greatly elated with my new command , and pleased with the bright , sunshiny weather and these different prospects of the coast .
I had now plenty of water and good things to eat , and my conscience , which had smitten me hard for my desertion , was quieted by the great conquest I had made .
I should , I think , have had nothing left me to desire but for the eyes of the coxswain as they followed me derisively about the deck and the odd smile that appeared continually on his face .
It was a smile that had in it something both of pain and weakness -- a haggard old man 's smile ; but there was , besides that , a grain of derision , a shadow of treachery , in his expression as he craftily watched , and watched , and watched me at my work .
26 Israel Hands THE wind , serving us to a desire , now hauled into the west .
We could run so much the easier from the north-east corner of the island to the mouth of the North Inlet .
Only , as we had no power to anchor and dared not beach her till the tide had flowed a good deal farther , time hung on our hands .
The coxswain told me how to lay the ship to ; after a good many trials I succeeded , and we both sat in silence over another meal .
`` Cap'n , '' said he at length with that same uncomfortable smile , `` here 's my old shipmate , O'Brien ; s ` pose you was to heave him overboard .
I ai n't partic ` lar as a rule , and I do n't take no blame for settling his hash , but I do n't reckon him ornamental now , do you ? ''
`` I 'm not strong enough , and I do n't like the job ; and there he lies , for me , '' said I. `` This here 's an unlucky ship , this HISPANIOLA , Jim , '' he went on , blinking .
`` There 's a power of men been killed in this HISPANIOLA -- a sight o ' poor seamen dead and gone since you and me took ship to Bristol .
I never seen sich dirty luck , not I .
There was this here O'Brien now -- he 's dead , ai n't he ?
Well now , I 'm no scholar , and you 're a lad as can read and figure , and to put it straight , do you take it as a dead man is dead for good , or do he come alive again ? ''
`` You can kill the body , Mr. Hands , but not the spirit ; you must know that already , '' I replied .
`` O'Brien there is in another world , and may be watching us . ''
`` Ah ! ''
says he .
`` Well , that 's unfort ` nate -- appears as if killing parties was a waste of time .
Howsomever , sperrits do n't reckon for much , by what I 've seen .
I 'll chance it with the sperrits , Jim .
And now , you 've spoke up free , and I 'll take it kind if you 'd step down into that there cabin and get me a -- well , a -- shiver my timbers !
I ca n't hit the name on ` t ; well , you get me a bottle of wine , Jim -- this here brandy 's too strong for my head . ''
Now , the coxswain 's hesitation seemed to be unnatural , and as for the notion of his preferring wine to brandy , I entirely disbelieved it .
The whole story was a pretext .
He wanted me to leave the deck -- so much was plain ; but with what purpose I could in no way imagine .
His eyes never met mine ; they kept wandering to and fro , up and down , now with a look to the sky , now with a flitting glance upon the dead O'Brien .
All the time he kept smiling and putting his tongue out in the most guilty , embarrassed manner , so that a child could have told that he was bent on some deception .
I was prompt with my answer , however , for I saw where my advantage lay and that with a fellow so densely stupid I could easily conceal my suspicions to the end .
`` Some wine ? ''
I said .
`` Far better .
Will you have white or red ? ''
`` Well , I reckon it 's about the blessed same to me , shipmate , '' he replied ; `` so it 's strong , and plenty of it , what 's the odds ? ''
`` All right , '' I answered .
`` I 'll bring you port , Mr. Hands .
But I 'll have to dig for it . ''
With that I scuttled down the companion with all the noise I could , slipped off my shoes , ran quietly along the sparred gallery , mounted the forecastle ladder , and popped my head out of the fore companion .
I knew he would not expect to see me there , yet I took every precaution possible , and certainly the worst of my suspicions proved too true .
He had risen from his position to his hands and knees , and though his leg obviously hurt him pretty sharply when he moved -- for I could hear him stifle a groan -- yet it was at a good , rattling rate that he trailed himself across the deck .
In half a minute he had reached the port scuppers and picked , out of a coil of rope , a long knife , or rather a short dirk , discoloured to the hilt with blood .
He looked upon it for a moment , thrusting forth his under jaw , tried the point upon his hand , and then , hastily concealing it in the bosom of his jacket , trundled back again into his old place against the bulwark .
This was all that I required to know .
Israel could move about , he was now armed , and if he had been at so much trouble to get rid of me , it was plain that I was meant to be the victim .
What he would do afterwards -- whether he would try to crawl right across the island from North Inlet to the camp among the swamps or whether he would fire Long Tom , trusting that his own comrades might come first to help him -- was , of course , more than I could say .
Yet I felt sure that I could trust him in one point , since in that our interests jumped together , and that was in the disposition of the schooner .
We both desired to have her stranded safe enough , in a sheltered place , and so that , when the time came , she could be got off again with as little labour and danger as might be ; and until that was done I considered that my life would certainly be spared .
While I was thus turning the business over in my mind , I had not been idle with my body .
I had stolen back to the cabin , slipped once more into my shoes , and laid my hand at random on a bottle of wine , and now , with this for an excuse , I made my reappearance on the deck .
Hands lay as I had left him , all fallen together in a bundle and with his eyelids lowered as though he were too weak to bear the light .
He looked up , however , at my coming , knocked the neck off the bottle like a man who had done the same thing often , and took a good swig , with his favourite toast of `` Here 's luck ! ''
Then he lay quiet for a little , and then , pulling out a stick of tobacco , begged me to cut him a quid .
`` Cut me a junk o ' that , '' says he , `` for I have n't no knife and hardly strength enough , so be as I had .
Ah , Jim , Jim , I reckon I 've missed stays !
Cut me a quid , as 'll likely be the last , lad , for I 'm for my long home , and no mistake . ''
`` Well , '' said I , `` I 'll cut you some tobacco , but if I was you and thought myself so badly , I would go to my prayers like a Christian man . ''
`` Why ? ''
said he .
`` Now , you tell me why . ''
`` Why ? ''
I cried .
`` You were asking me just now about the dead .
You 've broken your trust ; you 've lived in sin and lies and blood ; there 's a man you killed lying at your feet this moment , and you ask me why !
For God 's mercy , Mr. Hands , that 's why . ''
I spoke with a little heat , thinking of the bloody dirk he had hidden in his pocket and designed , in his ill thoughts , to end me with .
He , for his part , took a great draught of the wine and spoke with the most unusual solemnity .
`` For thirty years , '' he said , `` I 've sailed the seas and seen good and bad , better and worse , fair weather and foul , provisions running out , knives going , and what not .
Well , now I tell you , I never seen good come o ' goodness yet .
Him as strikes first is my fancy ; dead men do n't bite ; them 's my views -- amen , so be it .
And now , you look here , '' he added , suddenly changing his tone , `` we 've had about enough of this foolery .
The tide 's made good enough by now .
You just take my orders , Cap'n Hawkins , and we 'll sail slap in and be done with it . ''
All told , we had scarce two miles to run ; but the navigation was delicate , the entrance to this northern anchorage was not only narrow and shoal , but lay east and west , so that the schooner must be nicely handled to be got in .
I think I was a good , prompt subaltern , and I am very sure that Hands was an excellent pilot , for we went about and about and dodged in , shaving the banks , with a certainty and a neatness that were a pleasure to behold .
Scarcely had we passed the heads before the land closed around us .
The shores of North Inlet were as thickly wooded as those of the southern anchorage , but the space was longer and narrower and more like , what in truth it was , the estuary of a river .
Right before us , at the southern end , we saw the wreck of a ship in the last stages of dilapidation .
It had been a great vessel of three masts but had lain so long exposed to the injuries of the weather that it was hung about with great webs of dripping seaweed , and on the deck of it shore bushes had taken root and now flourished thick with flowers .
It was a sad sight , but it showed us that the anchorage was calm .
`` Now , '' said Hands , `` look there ; there 's a pet bit for to beach a ship in .
Fine flat sand , never a cat 's paw , trees all around of it , and flowers a-blowing like a garding on that old ship . ''
`` And once beached , '' I inquired , `` how shall we get her off again ? ''
`` Why , so , '' he replied : `` you take a line ashore there on the other side at low water , take a turn about one of them big pines ; bring it back , take a turn around the capstan , and lie to for the tide .
Come high water , all hands take a pull upon the line , and off she comes as sweet as natur ' .
And now , boy , you stand by .
We 're near the bit now , and she 's too much way on her .
Starboard a little -- so -- steady -- starboard -- larboard a little -- steady -- steady ! ''
So he issued his commands , which I breathlessly obeyed , till , all of a sudden , he cried , `` Now , my hearty , luff ! ''
And I put the helm hard up , and the HISPANIOLA swung round rapidly and ran stem on for the low , wooded shore .
The excitement of these last manoeuvres had somewhat interfered with the watch I had kept hitherto , sharply enough , upon the coxswain .
Even then I was still so much interested , waiting for the ship to touch , that I had quite forgot the peril that hung over my head and stood craning over the starboard bulwarks and watching the ripples spreading wide before the bows .
I might have fallen without a struggle for my life had not a sudden disquietude seized upon me and made me turn my head .
Perhaps I had heard a creak or seen his shadow moving with the tail of my eye ; perhaps it was an instinct like a cat 's ; but , sure enough , when I looked round , there was Hands , already half-way towards me , with the dirk in his right hand .
We must both have cried out aloud when our eyes met , but while mine was the shrill cry of terror , his was a roar of fury like a charging bully 's .
At the same instant , he threw himself forward and I leapt sideways towards the bows .
As I did so , I let go of the tiller , which sprang sharp to leeward , and I think this saved my life , for it struck Hands across the chest and stopped him , for the moment , dead .
Before he could recover , I was safe out of the corner where he had me trapped , with all the deck to dodge about .
Just forward of the main-mast I stopped , drew a pistol from my pocket , took a cool aim , though he had already turned and was once more coming directly after me , and drew the trigger .
The hammer fell , but there followed neither flash nor sound ; the priming was useless with sea-water .
I cursed myself for my neglect .
Why had not I , long before , reprimed and reloaded my only weapons ?
Then I should not have been as now , a mere fleeing sheep before this butcher .
Wounded as he was , it was wonderful how fast he could move , his grizzled hair tumbling over his face , and his face itself as red as a red ensign with his haste and fury .
I had no time to try my other pistol , nor indeed much inclination , for I was sure it would be useless .
One thing I saw plainly : I must not simply retreat before him , or he would speedily hold me boxed into the bows , as a moment since he had so nearly boxed me in the stern .
Once so caught , and nine or ten inches of the blood-stained dirk would be my last experience on this side of eternity .
I placed my palms against the main-mast , which was of a goodish bigness , and waited , every nerve upon the stretch .
Seeing that I meant to dodge , he also paused ; and a moment or two passed in feints on his part and corresponding movements upon mine .
It was such a game as I had often played at home about the rocks of Black Hill Cove , but never before , you may be sure , with such a wildly beating heart as now .
Still , as I say , it was a boy 's game , and I thought I could hold my own at it against an elderly seaman with a wounded thigh .
Indeed my courage had begun to rise so high that I allowed myself a few darting thoughts on what would be the end of the affair , and while I saw certainly that I could spin it out for long , I saw no hope of any ultimate escape .
Well , while things stood thus , suddenly the HISPANIOLA struck , staggered , ground for an instant in the sand , and then , swift as a blow , canted over to the port side till the deck stood at an angle of forty-five degrees and about a puncheon of water splashed into the scupper holes and lay , in a pool , between the deck and bulwark .
We were both of us capsized in a second , and both of us rolled , almost together , into the scuppers , the dead red-cap , with his arms still spread out , tumbling stiffly after us .
So near were we , indeed , that my head came against the coxswain 's foot with a crack that made my teeth rattle .
Blow and all , I was the first afoot again , for Hands had got involved with the dead body .
The sudden canting of the ship had made the deck no place for running on ; I had to find some new way of escape , and that upon the instant , for my foe was almost touching me .
Quick as thought , I sprang into the mizzen shrouds , rattled up hand over hand , and did not draw a breath till I was seated on the cross-trees .
I had been saved by being prompt ; the dirk had struck not half a foot below me as I pursued my upward flight ; and there stood Israel Hands with his mouth open and his face upturned to mine , a perfect statue of surprise and disappointment .
Now that I had a moment to myself , I lost no time in changing the priming of my pistol , and then , having one ready for service , and to make assurance doubly sure , I proceeded to draw the load of the other and recharge it afresh from the beginning .
My new employment struck Hands all of a heap ; he began to see the dice going against him , and after an obvious hesitation , he also hauled himself heavily into the shrouds , and with the dirk in his teeth , began slowly and painfully to mount .
It cost him no end of time and groans to haul his wounded leg behind him , and I had quietly finished my arrangements before he was much more than a third of the way up .
Then , with a pistol in either hand , I addressed him .
`` One more step , Mr. Hands , '' said I , `` and I 'll blow your brains out !
Dead men do n't bite , you know , '' I added with a chuckle .
He stopped instantly .
I could see by the working of his face that he was trying to think , and the process was so slow and laborious that , in my new-found security , I laughed aloud .
At last , with a swallow or two , he spoke , his face still wearing the same expression of extreme perplexity .
In order to speak he had to take the dagger from his mouth , but in all else he remained unmoved .
`` Jim , '' says he , `` I reckon we 're fouled , you and me , and we 'll have to sign articles .
I 'd have had you but for that there lurch , but I do n't have no luck , not I ; and I reckon I 'll have to strike , which comes hard , you see , for a master mariner to a ship 's younker like you , Jim . ''
I was drinking in his words and smiling away , as conceited as a cock upon a wall , when , all in a breath , back went his right hand over his shoulder .
Something sang like an arrow through the air ; I felt a blow and then a sharp pang , and there I was pinned by the shoulder to the mast .
In the horrid pain and surprise of the moment -- I scarce can say it was by my own volition , and I am sure it was without a conscious aim -- both my pistols went off , and both escaped out of my hands .
They did not fall alone ; with a choked cry , the coxswain loosed his grasp upon the shrouds and plunged head first into the water .
27 `` Pieces of Eight '' OWING to the cant of the vessel , the masts hung far out over the water , and from my perch on the cross-trees I had nothing below me but the surface of the bay .
Hands , who was not so far up , was in consequence nearer to the ship and fell between me and the bulwarks .
He rose once to the surface in a lather of foam and blood and then sank again for good .
As the water settled , I could see him lying huddled together on the clean , bright sand in the shadow of the vessel 's sides .
A fish or two whipped past his body .
Sometimes , by the quivering of the water , he appeared to move a little , as if he were trying to rise .
But he was dead enough , for all that , being both shot and drowned , and was food for fish in the very place where he had designed my slaughter .
I was no sooner certain of this than I began to feel sick , faint , and terrified .
The hot blood was running over my back and chest .
The dirk , where it had pinned my shoulder to the mast , seemed to burn like a hot iron ; yet it was not so much these real sufferings that distressed me , for these , it seemed to me , I could bear without a murmur ; it was the horror I had upon my mind of falling from the cross-trees into that still green water , beside the body of the coxswain .
I clung with both hands till my nails ached , and I shut my eyes as if to cover up the peril .
Gradually my mind came back again , my pulses quieted down to a more natural time , and I was once more in possession of myself .
It was my first thought to pluck forth the dirk , but either it stuck too hard or my nerve failed me , and I desisted with a violent shudder .
Oddly enough , that very shudder did the business .
The knife , in fact , had come the nearest in the world to missing me altogether ; it held me by a mere pinch of skin , and this the shudder tore away .
The blood ran down the faster , to be sure , but I was my own master again and only tacked to the mast by my coat and shirt .
These last I broke through with a sudden jerk , and then regained the deck by the starboard shrouds .
For nothing in the world would I have again ventured , shaken as I was , upon the overhanging port shrouds from which Israel had so lately fallen .
I went below and did what I could for my wound ; it pained me a good deal and still bled freely , but it was neither deep nor dangerous , nor did it greatly gall me when I used my arm .
Then I looked around me , and as the ship was now , in a sense , my own , I began to think of clearing it from its last passenger -- the dead man , O'Brien .
He had pitched , as I have said , against the bulwarks , where he lay like some horrible , ungainly sort of puppet , life-size , indeed , but how different from life 's colour or life 's comeliness !
In that position I could easily have my way with him , and as the habit of tragical adventures had worn off almost all my terror for the dead , I took him by the waist as if he had been a sack of bran and with one good heave , tumbled him overboard .
He went in with a sounding plunge ; the red cap came off and remained floating on the surface ; and as soon as the splash subsided , I could see him and Israel lying side by side , both wavering with the tremulous movement of the water .
O'Brien , though still quite a young man , was very bald .
There he lay , with that bald head across the knees of the man who had killed him and the quick fishes steering to and fro over both .
I was now alone upon the ship ; the tide had just turned .
The sun was within so few degrees of setting that already the shadow of the pines upon the western shore began to reach right across the anchorage and fall in patterns on the deck .
The evening breeze had sprung up , and though it was well warded off by the hill with the two peaks upon the east , the cordage had begun to sing a little softly to itself and the idle sails to rattle to and fro .
I began to see a danger to the ship .
The jibs I speedily doused and brought tumbling to the deck , but the main-sail was a harder matter .
Of course , when the schooner canted over , the boom had swung out-board , and the cap of it and a foot or two of sail hung even under water .
I thought this made it still more dangerous ; yet the strain was so heavy that I half feared to meddle .
At last I got my knife and cut the halyards .
The peak dropped instantly , a great belly of loose canvas floated broad upon the water , and since , pull as I liked , I could not budge the downhall , that was the extent of what I could accomplish .
For the rest , the HISPANIOLA must trust to luck , like myself .
By this time the whole anchorage had fallen into shadow -- the last rays , I remember , falling through a glade of the wood and shining bright as jewels on the flowery mantle of the wreck .
It began to be chill ; the tide was rapidly fleeting seaward , the schooner settling more and more on her beam-ends .
I scrambled forward and looked over .
It seemed shallow enough , and holding the cut hawser in both hands for a last security , I let myself drop softly overboard .
The water scarcely reached my waist ; the sand was firm and covered with ripple marks , and I waded ashore in great spirits , leaving the HISPANIOLA on her side , with her main-sail trailing wide upon the surface of the bay .
About the same time , the sun went fairly down and the breeze whistled low in the dusk among the tossing pines .
At least , and at last , I was off the sea , nor had I returned thence empty-handed .
There lay the schooner , clear at last from buccaneers and ready for our own men to board and get to sea again .
I had nothing nearer my fancy than to get home to the stockade and boast of my achievements .
Possibly I might be blamed a bit for my truantry , but the recapture of the HISPANIOLA was a clenching answer , and I hoped that even Captain Smollett would confess I had not lost my time .
So thinking , and in famous spirits , I began to set my face homeward for the block house and my companions .
I remembered that the most easterly of the rivers which drain into Captain Kidd 's anchorage ran from the two-peaked hill upon my left , and I bent my course in that direction that I might pass the stream while it was small .
The wood was pretty open , and keeping along the lower spurs , I had soon turned the corner of that hill , and not long after waded to the mid-calf across the watercourse .
This brought me near to where I had encountered Ben Gunn , the maroon ; and I walked more circumspectly , keeping an eye on every side .
The dusk had come nigh hand completely , and as I opened out the cleft between the two peaks , I became aware of a wavering glow against the sky , where , as I judged , the man of the island was cooking his supper before a roaring fire .
And yet I wondered , in my heart , that he should show himself so careless .
For if I could see this radiance , might it not reach the eyes of Silver himself where he camped upon the shore among the marshes ?
Gradually the night fell blacker ; it was all I could do to guide myself even roughly towards my destination ; the double hill behind me and the Spy-glass on my right hand loomed faint and fainter ; the stars were few and pale ; and in the low ground where I wandered I kept tripping among bushes and rolling into sandy pits .
Suddenly a kind of brightness fell about me .
I looked up ; a pale glimmer of moonbeams had alighted on the summit of the Spy-glass , and soon after I saw something broad and silvery moving low down behind the trees , and knew the moon had risen .
With this to help me , I passed rapidly over what remained to me of my journey , and sometimes walking , sometimes running , impatiently drew near to the stockade .
Yet , as I began to thread the grove that lies before it , I was not so thoughtless but that I slacked my pace and went a trifle warily .
It would have been a poor end of my adventures to get shot down by my own party in mistake .
The moon was climbing higher and higher , its light began to fall here and there in masses through the more open districts of the wood , and right in front of me a glow of a different colour appeared among the trees .
It was red and hot , and now and again it was a little darkened -- as it were , the embers of a bonfire smouldering .
For the life of me I could not think what it might be .
At last I came right down upon the borders of the clearing .
The western end was already steeped in moonshine ; the rest , and the block house itself , still lay in a black shadow chequered with long silvery streaks of light .
On the other side of the house an immense fire had burned itself into clear embers and shed a steady , red reverberation , contrasted strongly with the mellow paleness of the moon .
There was not a soul stirring nor a sound beside the noises of the breeze .
I stopped , with much wonder in my heart , and perhaps a little terror also .
It had not been our way to build great fires ; we were , indeed , by the captain 's orders , somewhat niggardly of firewood , and I began to fear that something had gone wrong while I was absent .
I stole round by the eastern end , keeping close in shadow , and at a convenient place , where the darkness was thickest , crossed the palisade .
To make assurance surer , I got upon my hands and knees and crawled , without a sound , towards the corner of the house .
As I drew nearer , my heart was suddenly and greatly lightened .
It is not a pleasant noise in itself , and I have often complained of it at other times , but just then it was like music to hear my friends snoring together so loud and peaceful in their sleep .
The sea-cry of the watch , that beautiful `` All 's well , '' never fell more reassuringly on my ear .
In the meantime , there was no doubt of one thing ; they kept an infamous bad watch .
If it had been Silver and his lads that were now creeping in on them , not a soul would have seen daybreak .
That was what it was , thought I , to have the captain wounded ; and again I blamed myself sharply for leaving them in that danger with so few to mount guard .
By this time I had got to the door and stood up .
All was dark within , so that I could distinguish nothing by the eye .
As for sounds , there was the steady drone of the snorers and a small occasional noise , a flickering or pecking that I could in no way account for .
With my arms before me I walked steadily in .
I should lie down in my own place -LRB- I thought with a silent chuckle -RRB- and enjoy their faces when they found me in the morning .
My foot struck something yielding -- it was a sleeper 's leg ; and he turned and groaned , but without awaking .
And then , all of a sudden , a shrill voice broke forth out of the darkness : `` Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight !
Pieces of eight ! ''
and so forth , without pause or change , like the clacking of a tiny mill .
Silver 's green parrot , Captain Flint !
It was she whom I had heard pecking at a piece of bark ; it was she , keeping better watch than any human being , who thus announced my arrival with her wearisome refrain .
I had no time left me to recover .
At the sharp , clipping tone of the parrot , the sleepers awoke and sprang up ; and with a mighty oath , the voice of Silver cried , `` Who goes ? ''
I turned to run , struck violently against one person , recoiled , and ran full into the arms of a second , who for his part closed upon and held me tight .
`` Bring a torch , Dick , '' said Silver when my capture was thus assured .
And one of the men left the log-house and presently returned with a lighted brand .
PART SIX -- Captain Silver 28 In the Enemy 's Camp THE red glare of the torch , lighting up the interior of the block house , showed me the worst of my apprehensions realized .
The pirates were in possession of the house and stores : there was the cask of cognac , there were the pork and bread , as before , and what tenfold increased my horror , not a sign of any prisoner .
I could only judge that all had perished , and my heart smote me sorely that I had not been there to perish with them .
There were six of the buccaneers , all told ; not another man was left alive .
Five of them were on their feet , flushed and swollen , suddenly called out of the first sleep of drunkenness .
The sixth had only risen upon his elbow ; he was deadly pale , and the blood-stained bandage round his head told that he had recently been wounded , and still more recently dressed .
I remembered the man who had been shot and had run back among the woods in the great attack , and doubted not that this was he .
The parrot sat , preening her plumage , on Long John 's shoulder .
He himself , I thought , looked somewhat paler and more stern than I was used to .
He still wore the fine broadcloth suit in which he had fulfilled his mission , but it was bitterly the worse for wear , daubed with clay and torn with the sharp briers of the wood .
`` So , '' said he , `` here 's Jim Hawkins , shiver my timbers !
Dropped in , like , eh ?
Well , come , I take that friendly . ''
And thereupon he sat down across the brandy cask and began to fill a pipe .
`` Give me a loan of the link , Dick , '' said he ; and then , when he had a good light , `` That 'll do , lad , '' he added ; `` stick the glim in the wood heap ; and you , gentlemen , bring yourselves to !
You need n't stand up for Mr. Hawkins ; HE 'LL excuse you , you may lay to that .
And so , Jim '' -- stopping the tobacco -- `` here you were , and quite a pleasant surprise for poor old John .
I see you were smart when first I set my eyes on you , but this here gets away from me clean , it do . ''
To all this , as may be well supposed , I made no answer .
They had set me with my back against the wall , and I stood there , looking Silver in the face , pluckily enough , I hope , to all outward appearance , but with black despair in my heart .
Silver took a whiff or two of his pipe with great composure and then ran on again .
`` Now , you see , Jim , so be as you ARE here , '' says he , `` I 'll give you a piece of my mind .
I 've always liked you , I have , for a lad of spirit , and the picter of my own self when I was young and handsome .
I always wanted you to jine and take your share , and die a gentleman , and now , my cock , you 've got to .
Cap'n Smollett 's a fine seaman , as I 'll own up to any day , but stiff on discipline .
` Dooty is dooty , ' says he , and right he is .
Just you keep clear of the cap'n .
The doctor himself is gone dead again you -- ` ungrateful scamp ' was what he said ; and the short and the long of the whole story is about here : you ca n't go back to your own lot , for they wo n't have you ; and without you start a third ship 's company all by yourself , which might be lonely , you 'll have to jine with Cap'n Silver . ''
So far so good .
My friends , then , were still alive , and though I partly believed the truth of Silver 's statement , that the cabin party were incensed at me for my desertion , I was more relieved than distressed by what I heard .
`` I do n't say nothing as to your being in our hands , '' continued Silver , `` though there you are , and you may lay to it .
I 'm all for argyment ; I never seen good come out o ' threatening .
If you like the service , well , you 'll jine ; and if you do n't , Jim , why , you 're free to answer no -- free and welcome , shipmate ; and if fairer can be said by mortal seaman , shiver my sides ! ''
`` Am I to answer , then ? ''
I asked with a very tremulous voice .
Through all this sneering talk , I was made to feel the threat of death that overhung me , and my cheeks burned and my heart beat painfully in my breast .
`` Lad , '' said Silver , `` no one 's a-pressing of you .
Take your bearings .
None of us wo n't hurry you , mate ; time goes so pleasant in your company , you see . ''
`` Well , '' says I , growing a bit bolder , `` if I 'm to choose , I declare I have a right to know what 's what , and why you 're here , and where my friends are . ''
`` Wot 's wot ? ''
repeated one of the buccaneers in a deep growl .
`` Ah , he 'd be a lucky one as knowed that ! ''
`` You 'll perhaps batten down your hatches till you 're spoke to , my friend , '' cried Silver truculently to this speaker .
And then , in his first gracious tones , he replied to me , `` Yesterday morning , Mr. Hawkins , '' said he , `` in the dog-watch , down came Doctor Livesey with a flag of truce .
Says he , ` Cap'n Silver , you 're sold out .
Ship 's gone . '
Well , maybe we 'd been taking a glass , and a song to help it round .
I wo n't say no .
Leastways , none of us had looked out .
We looked out , and by thunder , the old ship was gone !
I never seen a pack o ' fools look fishier ; and you may lay to that , if I tells you that looked the fishiest .
` Well , ' says the doctor , ` let 's bargain . '
We bargained , him and I , and here we are : stores , brandy , block house , the firewood you was thoughtful enough to cut , and in a manner of speaking , the whole blessed boat , from cross-trees to kelson .
As for them , they 've tramped ; I do n't know where 's they are . ''
He drew again quietly at his pipe .
`` And lest you should take it into that head of yours , '' he went on , `` that you was included in the treaty , here 's the last word that was said : ` How many are you , ' says I , ` to leave ? '
` Four , ' says he ; ` four , and one of us wounded .
As for that boy , I do n't know where he is , confound him , ' says he , ` nor I do n't much care .
We 're about sick of him . '
These was his words .
`` Is that all ? ''
I asked .
`` Well , it 's all that you 're to hear , my son , '' returned Silver .
`` And now I am to choose ? ''
`` And now you are to choose , and you may lay to that , '' said Silver .
`` Well , '' said I , `` I am not such a fool but I know pretty well what I have to look for .
Let the worst come to the worst , it 's little I care .
I 've seen too many die since I fell in with you .
But there 's a thing or two I have to tell you , '' I said , and by this time I was quite excited ; `` and the first is this : here you are , in a bad way -- ship lost , treasure lost , men lost , your whole business gone to wreck ; and if you want to know who did it -- it was I !
I was in the apple barrel the night we sighted land , and I heard you , John , and you , Dick Johnson , and Hands , who is now at the bottom of the sea , and told every word you said before the hour was out .
And as for the schooner , it was I who cut her cable , and it was I that killed the men you had aboard of her , and it was I who brought her where you 'll never see her more , not one of you .
The laugh 's on my side ; I 've had the top of this business from the first ; I no more fear you than I fear a fly .
Kill me , if you please , or spare me .
But one thing I 'll say , and no more ; if you spare me , bygones are bygones , and when you fellows are in court for piracy , I 'll save you all I can .
It is for you to choose .
Kill another and do yourselves no good , or spare me and keep a witness to save you from the gallows . ''
I stopped , for , I tell you , I was out of breath , and to my wonder , not a man of them moved , but all sat staring at me like as many sheep .
And while they were still staring , I broke out again , `` And now , Mr. Silver , '' I said , `` I believe you 're the best man here , and if things go to the worst , I 'll take it kind of you to let the doctor know the way I took it . ''
`` I 'll bear it in mind , '' said Silver with an accent so curious that I could not , for the life of me , decide whether he were laughing at my request or had been favourably affected by my courage .
`` I 'll put one to that , '' cried the old mahogany-faced seaman -- Morgan by name -- whom I had seen in Long John 's public-house upon the quays of Bristol .
`` It was him that knowed Black Dog . ''
`` Well , and see here , '' added the sea-cook .
`` I 'll put another again to that , by thunder !
For it was this same boy that faked the chart from Billy Bones .
First and last , we 've split upon Jim Hawkins ! ''
`` Then here goes ! ''
said Morgan with an oath .
And he sprang up , drawing his knife as if he had been twenty .
`` Avast , there ! ''
cried Silver .
`` Who are you , Tom Morgan ?
Maybe you thought you was cap'n here , perhaps .
By the powers , but I 'll teach you better !
Cross me , and you 'll go where many a good man 's gone before you , first and last , these thirty year back -- some to the yard-arm , shiver my timbers , and some by the board , and all to feed the fishes .
There 's never a man looked me between the eyes and seen a good day a ` terwards , Tom Morgan , you may lay to that . ''
Morgan paused , but a hoarse murmur rose from the others .
`` Tom 's right , '' said one .
`` I stood hazing long enough from one , '' added another .
`` I 'll be hanged if I 'll be hazed by you , John Silver . ''
`` Did any of you gentlemen want to have it out with ME ? ''
roared Silver , bending far forward from his position on the keg , with his pipe still glowing in his right hand .
`` Put a name on what you 're at ; you ai n't dumb , I reckon .
Him that wants shall get it .
Have I lived this many years , and a son of a rum puncheon cock his hat athwart my hawse at the latter end of it ?
You know the way ; you 're all gentlemen o ' fortune , by your account .
Well , I 'm ready .
Take a cutlass , him that dares , and I 'll see the colour of his inside , crutch and all , before that pipe 's empty . ''
Not a man stirred ; not a man answered .
`` That 's your sort , is it ? ''
he added , returning his pipe to his mouth .
`` Well , you 're a gay lot to look at , anyway .
Not much worth to fight , you ai n't .
P ` r ` aps you can understand King George 's English .
I 'm cap'n here by ` lection .
I 'm cap'n here because I 'm the best man by a long sea-mile .
You wo n't fight , as gentlemen o ' fortune should ; then , by thunder , you 'll obey , and you may lay to it !
I like that boy , now ; I never seen a better boy than that .
He 's more a man than any pair of rats of you in this here house , and what I say is this : let me see him that 'll lay a hand on him -- that 's what I say , and you may lay to it . ''
There was a long pause after this .
I stood straight up against the wall , my heart still going like a sledge-hammer , but with a ray of hope now shining in my bosom .
Silver leant back against the wall , his arms crossed , his pipe in the corner of his mouth , as calm as though he had been in church ; yet his eye kept wandering furtively , and he kept the tail of it on his unruly followers .
They , on their part , drew gradually together towards the far end of the block house , and the low hiss of their whispering sounded in my ear continuously , like a stream .
One after another , they would look up , and the red light of the torch would fall for a second on their nervous faces ; but it was not towards me , it was towards Silver that they turned their eyes .
`` You seem to have a lot to say , '' remarked Silver , spitting far into the air .
`` Pipe up and let me hear it , or lay to . ''
`` Ax your pardon , sir , '' returned one of the men ; `` you 're pretty free with some of the rules ; maybe you 'll kindly keep an eye upon the rest .
This crew 's dissatisfied ; this crew do n't vally bullying a marlin-spike ; this crew has its rights like other crews , I 'll make so free as that ; and by your own rules , I take it we can talk together .
I ax your pardon , sir , acknowledging you for to be captaing at this present ; but I claim my right , and steps outside for a council . ''
And with an elaborate sea-salute , this fellow , a long , ill-looking , yellow-eyed man of five and thirty , stepped coolly towards the door and disappeared out of the house .
One after another the rest followed his example , each making a salute as he passed , each adding some apology .
`` According to rules , '' said one .
`` Forecastle council , '' said Morgan .
And so with one remark or another all marched out and left Silver and me alone with the torch .
The sea-cook instantly removed his pipe .
`` Now , look you here , Jim Hawkins , '' he said in a steady whisper that was no more than audible , `` you 're within half a plank of death , and what 's a long sight worse , of torture .
They 're going to throw me off .
But , you mark , I stand by you through thick and thin .
I did n't mean to ; no , not till you spoke up .
I was about desperate to lose that much blunt , and be hanged into the bargain .
But I see you was the right sort .
I says to myself , you stand by Hawkins , John , and Hawkins 'll stand by you .
You 're his last card , and by the living thunder , John , he 's yours !
Back to back , says I .
You save your witness , and he 'll save your neck ! ''
I began dimly to understand .
`` You mean all 's lost ? ''
I asked .
`` Aye , by gum , I do ! ''
he answered .
`` Ship gone , neck gone -- that 's the size of it .
Once I looked into that bay , Jim Hawkins , and seen no schooner -- well , I 'm tough , but I gave out .
As for that lot and their council , mark me , they 're outright fools and cowards .
I 'll save your life -- if so be as I can -- from them .
But , see here , Jim -- tit for tat -- you save Long John from swinging . ''
I was bewildered ; it seemed a thing so hopeless he was asking -- he , the old buccaneer , the ringleader throughout .
`` What I can do , that I 'll do , '' I said .
`` It 's a bargain ! ''
cried Long John .
`` You speak up plucky , and by thunder , I 've a chance ! ''
He hobbled to the torch , where it stood propped among the firewood , and took a fresh light to his pipe .
`` Understand me , Jim , '' he said , returning .
`` I 've a head on my shoulders , I have .
I 'm on squire 's side now .
I know you 've got that ship safe somewheres .
How you done it , I do n't know , but safe it is .
I guess Hands and O'Brien turned soft .
I never much believed in neither of THEM .
Now you mark me .
I ask no questions , nor I wo n't let others .
I know when a game 's up , I do ; and I know a lad that 's staunch .
Ah , you that 's young -- you and me might have done a power of good together ! ''
He drew some cognac from the cask into a tin cannikin .
`` Will you taste , messmate ? ''
he asked ; and when I had refused : `` Well , I 'll take a drain myself , Jim , '' said he .
`` I need a caulker , for there 's trouble on hand .
And talking o ' trouble , why did that doctor give me the chart , Jim ? ''
My face expressed a wonder so unaffected that he saw the needlessness of further questions .
`` Ah , well , he did , though , '' said he .
`` And there 's something under that , no doubt -- something , surely , under that , Jim -- bad or good . ''
And he took another swallow of the brandy , shaking his great fair head like a man who looks forward to the worst .
29 The Black Spot Again THE council of buccaneers had lasted some time , when one of them re-entered the house , and with a repetition of the same salute , which had in my eyes an ironical air , begged for a moment 's loan of the torch .
Silver briefly agreed , and this emissary retired again , leaving us together in the dark .
`` There 's a breeze coming , Jim , '' said Silver , who had by this time adopted quite a friendly and familiar tone .
I turned to the loophole nearest me and looked out .
The embers of the great fire had so far burned themselves out and now glowed so low and duskily that I understood why these conspirators desired a torch .
About half-way down the slope to the stockade , they were collected in a group ; one held the light , another was on his knees in their midst , and I saw the blade of an open knife shine in his hand with varying colours in the moon and torchlight .
The rest were all somewhat stooping , as though watching the manoeuvres of this last .
I could just make out that he had a book as well as a knife in his hand , and was still wondering how anything so incongruous had come in their possession when the kneeling figure rose once more to his feet and the whole party began to move together towards the house .
`` Here they come , '' said I ; and I returned to my former position , for it seemed beneath my dignity that they should find me watching them .
`` Well , let 'em come , lad -- let 'em come , '' said Silver cheerily .
`` I 've still a shot in my locker . ''
The door opened , and the five men , standing huddled together just inside , pushed one of their number forward .
In any other circumstances it would have been comical to see his slow advance , hesitating as he set down each foot , but holding his closed right hand in front of him .
`` Step up , lad , '' cried Silver .
`` I wo n't eat you .
Hand it over , lubber .
I know the rules , I do ; I wo n't hurt a depytation . ''
Thus encouraged , the buccaneer stepped forth more briskly , and having passed something to Silver , from hand to hand , slipped yet more smartly back again to his companions .
The sea-cook looked at what had been given him .
`` The black spot !
I thought so , '' he observed .
`` Where might you have got the paper ?
Why , hillo !
Look here , now ; this ai n't lucky !
You 've gone and cut this out of a Bible .
What fool 's cut a Bible ? ''
`` Ah , there ! ''
said Morgan .
`` There !
Wot did I say ?
No good 'll come o ' that , I said . ''
`` Well , you 've about fixed it now , among you , '' continued Silver .
`` You 'll all swing now , I reckon .
What soft-headed lubber had a Bible ? ''
`` It was Dick , '' said one .
`` Dick , was it ?
Then Dick can get to prayers , '' said Silver .
`` He 's seen his slice of luck , has Dick , and you may lay to that . ''
But here the long man with the yellow eyes struck in .
`` Belay that talk , John Silver , '' he said .
`` This crew has tipped you the black spot in full council , as in dooty bound ; just you turn it over , as in dooty bound , and see what 's wrote there .
Then you can talk . ''
`` Thanky , George , '' replied the sea-cook .
`` You always was brisk for business , and has the rules by heart , George , as I 'm pleased to see .
Well , what is it , anyway ?
Ah !
` Deposed ' -- that 's it , is it ?
Very pretty wrote , to be sure ; like print , I swear .
Your hand o ' write , George ?
Why , you was gettin ' quite a leadin ' man in this here crew .
You 'll be cap'n next , I should n't wonder .
Just oblige me with that torch again , will you ?
This pipe do n't draw . ''
`` Come , now , '' said George , `` you do n't fool this crew no more .
You 're a funny man , by your account ; but you 're over now , and you 'll maybe step down off that barrel and help vote . ''
`` I thought you said you knowed the rules , '' returned Silver contemptuously .
`` Leastways , if you do n't , I do ; and I wait here -- and I 'm still your cap'n , mind -- till you outs with your grievances and I reply ; in the meantime , your black spot ai n't worth a biscuit .
After that , we 'll see . ''
`` Oh , '' replied George , `` you do n't be under no kind of apprehension ; WE 'RE all square , we are .
First , you 've made a hash of this cruise -- you 'll be a bold man to say no to that .
Second , you let the enemy out o ' this here trap for nothing .
Why did they want out ?
I dunno , but it 's pretty plain they wanted it .
Third , you would n't let us go at them upon the march .
Oh , we see through you , John Silver ; you want to play booty , that 's what 's wrong with you .
And then , fourth , there 's this here boy . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
asked Silver quietly .
`` Enough , too , '' retorted George .
`` We 'll all swing and sun-dry for your bungling . ''
`` Well now , look here , I 'll answer these four p ` ints ; one after another I 'll answer 'em .
I made a hash o ' this cruise , did I ?
Well now , you all know what I wanted , and you all know if that had been done that we 'd ' a been aboard the HISPANIOLA this night as ever was , every man of us alive , and fit , and full of good plum-duff , and the treasure in the hold of her , by thunder !
Well , who crossed me ?
Who forced my hand , as was the lawful cap'n ?
Who tipped me the black spot the day we landed and began this dance ?
Ah , it 's a fine dance -- I 'm with you there -- and looks mighty like a hornpipe in a rope 's end at Execution Dock by London town , it does .
But who done it ?
Why , it was Anderson , and Hands , and you , George Merry !
And you 're the last above board of that same meddling crew ; and you have the Davy Jones 's insolence to up and stand for cap'n over me -- you , that sank the lot of us !
By the powers !
But this tops the stiffest yarn to nothing . ''
Silver paused , and I could see by the faces of George and his late comrades that these words had not been said in vain .
`` That 's for number one , '' cried the accused , wiping the sweat from his brow , for he had been talking with a vehemence that shook the house .
`` Why , I give you my word , I 'm sick to speak to you .
You 've neither sense nor memory , and I leave it to fancy where your mothers was that let you come to sea .
Sea !
Gentlemen o ' fortune !
I reckon tailors is your trade . ''
`` Go on , John , '' said Morgan .
`` Speak up to the others . ''
`` Ah , the others ! ''
returned John .
`` They 're a nice lot , ai n't they ?
You say this cruise is bungled .
Ah !
By gum , if you could understand how bad it 's bungled , you would see !
We 're that near the gibbet that my neck 's stiff with thinking on it .
You 've seen 'em , maybe , hanged in chains , birds about 'em , seamen p ` inting 'em out as they go down with the tide .
` Who 's that ? '
says one .
` That !
Why , that 's John Silver .
I knowed him well , ' says another .
And you can hear the chains a-jangle as you go about and reach for the other buoy .
Now , that 's about where we are , every mother 's son of us , thanks to him , and Hands , and Anderson , and other ruination fools of you .
And if you want to know about number four , and that boy , why , shiver my timbers , is n't he a hostage ?
Are we a-going to waste a hostage ?
No , not us ; he might be our last chance , and I should n't wonder .
Kill that boy ?
Not me , mates !
And number three ?
Ah , well , there 's a deal to say to number three .
Maybe you do n't count it nothing to have a real college doctor to see you every day -- you , John , with your head broke -- or you , George Merry , that had the ague shakes upon you not six hours agone , and has your eyes the colour of lemon peel to this same moment on the clock ?
And maybe , perhaps , you did n't know there was a consort coming either ?
But there is , and not so long till then ; and we 'll see who 'll be glad to have a hostage when it comes to that .
And as for number two , and why I made a bargain -- well , you came crawling on your knees to me to make it -- on your knees you came , you was that downhearted -- and you 'd have starved too if I had n't -- but that 's a trifle !
You look there -- that 's why ! ''
And he cast down upon the floor a paper that I instantly recognized -- none other than the chart on yellow paper , with the three red crosses , that I had found in the oilcloth at the bottom of the captain 's chest .
Why the doctor had given it to him was more than I could fancy .
But if it were inexplicable to me , the appearance of the chart was incredible to the surviving mutineers .
They leaped upon it like cats upon a mouse .
It went from hand to hand , one tearing it from another ; and by the oaths and the cries and the childish laughter with which they accompanied their examination , you would have thought , not only they were fingering the very gold , but were at sea with it , besides , in safety .
`` Yes , '' said one , `` that 's Flint , sure enough .
J. F. , and a score below , with a clove hitch to it ; so he done ever . ''
`` Mighty pretty , '' said George .
`` But how are we to get away with it , and us no ship . ''
Silver suddenly sprang up , and supporting himself with a hand against the wall : `` Now I give you warning , George , '' he cried .
`` One more word of your sauce , and I 'll call you down and fight you .
How ?
Why , how do I know ?
You had ought to tell me that -- you and the rest , that lost me my schooner , with your interference , burn you !
But not you , you ca n't ; you hai n't got the invention of a cockroach .
But civil you can speak , and shall , George Merry , you may lay to that . ''
`` That 's fair enow , '' said the old man Morgan .
`` Fair !
I reckon so , '' said the sea-cook .
`` You lost the ship ; I found the treasure .
Who 's the better man at that ?
And now I resign , by thunder !
Elect whom you please to be your cap'n now ; I 'm done with it . ''
`` Silver ! ''
they cried .
`` Barbecue forever !
Barbecue for cap'n ! ''
`` So that 's the toon , is it ? ''
cried the cook .
`` George , I reckon you 'll have to wait another turn , friend ; and lucky for you as I 'm not a revengeful man .
But that was never my way .
And now , shipmates , this black spot ?
` Tai n't much good now , is it ?
Dick 's crossed his luck and spoiled his Bible , and that 's about all . ''
`` It 'll do to kiss the book on still , wo n't it ? ''
growled Dick , who was evidently uneasy at the curse he had brought upon himself .
`` A Bible with a bit cut out ! ''
returned Silver derisively .
`` Not it .
It do n't bind no more 'n a ballad-book . ''
`` Do n't it , though ? ''
cried Dick with a sort of joy .
`` Well , I reckon that 's worth having too . ''
`` Here , Jim -- here 's a cur ` osity for you , '' said Silver , and he tossed me the paper .
It was around about the size of a crown piece .
One side was blank , for it had been the last leaf ; the other contained a verse or two of Revelation -- these words among the rest , which struck sharply home upon my mind : `` Without are dogs and murderers . ''
The printed side had been blackened with wood ash , which already began to come off and soil my fingers ; on the blank side had been written with the same material the one word `` Depposed . ''
I have that curiosity beside me at this moment , but not a trace of writing now remains beyond a single scratch , such as a man might make with his thumb-nail .
That was the end of the night 's business .
Soon after , with a drink all round , we lay down to sleep , and the outside of Silver 's vengeance was to put George Merry up for sentinel and threaten him with death if he should prove unfaithful .
It was long ere I could close an eye , and heaven knows I had matter enough for thought in the man whom I had slain that afternoon , in my own most perilous position , and above all , in the remarkable game that I saw Silver now engaged upon -- keeping the mutineers together with one hand and grasping with the other after every means , possible and impossible , to make his peace and save his miserable life .
He himself slept peacefully and snored aloud , yet my heart was sore for him , wicked as he was , to think on the dark perils that environed and the shameful gibbet that awaited him .
30 On Parole I WAS wakened -- indeed , we were all wakened , for I could see even the sentinel shake himself together from where he had fallen against the door-post -- by a clear , hearty voice hailing us from the margin of the wood : `` Block house , ahoy ! ''
it cried .
`` Here 's the doctor . ''
And the doctor it was .
Although I was glad to hear the sound , yet my gladness was not without admixture .
I remembered with confusion my insubordinate and stealthy conduct , and when I saw where it had brought me -- among what companions and surrounded by what dangers -- I felt ashamed to look him in the face .
He must have risen in the dark , for the day had hardly come ; and when I ran to a loophole and looked out , I saw him standing , like Silver once before , up to the mid-leg in creeping vapour .
`` You , doctor !
Top o ' the morning to you , sir ! ''
cried Silver , broad awake and beaming with good nature in a moment .
`` Bright and early , to be sure ; and it 's the early bird , as the saying goes , that gets the rations .
George , shake up your timbers , son , and help Dr. Livesey over the ship 's side .
All a-doin ' well , your patients was -- all well and merry . ''
So he pattered on , standing on the hilltop with his crutch under his elbow and one hand upon the side of the log-house -- quite the old John in voice , manner , and expression .
`` We 've quite a surprise for you too , sir , '' he continued .
`` We 've a little stranger here -- he !
he !
A noo boarder and lodger , sir , and looking fit and taut as a fiddle ; slep ' like a supercargo , he did , right alongside of John -- stem to stem we was , all night . ''
Dr. Livesey was by this time across the stockade and pretty near the cook , and I could hear the alteration in his voice as he said , `` Not Jim ? ''
`` The very same Jim as ever was , '' says Silver .
The doctor stopped outright , although he did not speak , and it was some seconds before he seemed able to move on .
`` Well , well , '' he said at last , `` duty first and pleasure afterwards , as you might have said yourself , Silver .
Let us overhaul these patients of yours . ''
A moment afterwards he had entered the block house and with one grim nod to me proceeded with his work among the sick .
He seemed under no apprehension , though he must have known that his life , among these treacherous demons , depended on a hair ; and he rattled on to his patients as if he were paying an ordinary professional visit in a quiet English family .
His manner , I suppose , reacted on the men , for they behaved to him as if nothing had occurred , as if he were still ship 's doctor and they still faithful hands before the mast .
`` You 're doing well , my friend , '' he said to the fellow with the bandaged head , `` and if ever any person had a close shave , it was you ; your head must be as hard as iron .
Well , George , how goes it ?
You 're a pretty colour , certainly ; why , your liver , man , is upside down .
Did you take that medicine ?
Did he take that medicine , men ? ''
`` Aye , aye , sir , he took it , sure enough , '' returned Morgan .
`` Because , you see , since I am mutineers ' doctor , or prison doctor as I prefer to call it , '' says Doctor Livesey in his pleasantest way , `` I make it a point of honour not to lose a man for King George -LRB- God bless him ! -RRB-
and the gallows . ''
The rogues looked at each other but swallowed the home-thrust in silence .
`` Dick do n't feel well , sir , '' said one .
`` Do n't he ? ''
replied the doctor .
`` Well , step up here , Dick , and let me see your tongue .
No , I should be surprised if he did !
The man 's tongue is fit to frighten the French .
Another fever . ''
`` Ah , there , '' said Morgan , `` that comed of sp ` iling Bibles . ''
`` That comes -- as you call it -- of being arrant asses , '' retorted the doctor , `` and not having sense enough to know honest air from poison , and the dry land from a vile , pestiferous slough .
I think it most probable -- though of course it 's only an opinion -- that you 'll all have the deuce to pay before you get that malaria out of your systems .
Camp in a bog , would you ?
Silver , I 'm surprised at you .
You 're less of a fool than many , take you all round ; but you do n't appear to me to have the rudiments of a notion of the rules of health .
`` Well , '' he added after he had dosed them round and they had taken his prescriptions , with really laughable humility , more like charity schoolchildren than blood-guilty mutineers and pirates -- `` well , that 's done for today .
And now I should wish to have a talk with that boy , please . ''
And he nodded his head in my direction carelessly .
George Merry was at the door , spitting and spluttering over some bad-tasted medicine ; but at the first word of the doctor 's proposal he swung round with a deep flush and cried `` No ! ''
and swore .
Silver struck the barrel with his open hand .
`` Si-lence ! ''
he roared and looked about him positively like a lion .
`` Doctor , '' he went on in his usual tones , `` I was a-thinking of that , knowing as how you had a fancy for the boy .
We 're all humbly grateful for your kindness , and as you see , puts faith in you and takes the drugs down like that much grog .
And I take it I 've found a way as 'll suit all .
Hawkins , will you give me your word of honour as a young gentleman -- for a young gentleman you are , although poor born -- your word of honour not to slip your cable ? ''
I readily gave the pledge required .
`` Then , doctor , '' said Silver , `` you just step outside o ' that stockade , and once you 're there I 'll bring the boy down on the inside , and I reckon you can yarn through the spars .
Good day to you , sir , and all our dooties to the squire and Cap'n Smollett . ''
The explosion of disapproval , which nothing but Silver 's black looks had restrained , broke out immediately the doctor had left the house .
Silver was roundly accused of playing double -- of trying to make a separate peace for himself , of sacrificing the interests of his accomplices and victims , and , in one word , of the identical , exact thing that he was doing .
It seemed to me so obvious , in this case , that I could not imagine how he was to turn their anger .
But he was twice the man the rest were , and his last night 's victory had given him a huge preponderance on their minds .
He called them all the fools and dolts you can imagine , said it was necessary I should talk to the doctor , fluttered the chart in their faces , asked them if they could afford to break the treaty the very day they were bound a-treasure-hunting .
`` No , by thunder ! ''
he cried .
`` It 's us must break the treaty when the time comes ; and till then I 'll gammon that doctor , if I have to ile his boots with brandy . ''
And then he bade them get the fire lit , and stalked out upon his crutch , with his hand on my shoulder , leaving them in a disarray , and silenced by his volubility rather than convinced .
`` Slow , lad , slow , '' he said .
`` They might round upon us in a twinkle of an eye if we was seen to hurry . ''
Very deliberately , then , did we advance across the sand to where the doctor awaited us on the other side of the stockade , and as soon as we were within easy speaking distance Silver stopped .
`` You 'll make a note of this here also , doctor , '' says he , `` and the boy 'll tell you how I saved his life , and were deposed for it too , and you may lay to that .
Doctor , when a man 's steering as near the wind as me -- playing chuck-farthing with the last breath in his body , like -- you would n't think it too much , mayhap , to give him one good word ?
You 'll please bear in mind it 's not my life only now -- it 's that boy 's into the bargain ; and you 'll speak me fair , doctor , and give me a bit o ' hope to go on , for the sake of mercy . ''
Silver was a changed man once he was out there and had his back to his friends and the block house ; his cheeks seemed to have fallen in , his voice trembled ; never was a soul more dead in earnest .
`` Why , John , you 're not afraid ? ''
asked Dr. Livesey .
`` Doctor , I 'm no coward ; no , not I -- not SO much ! ''
and he snapped his fingers .
`` If I was I would n't say it .
But I 'll own up fairly , I 've the shakes upon me for the gallows .
You 're a good man and a true ; I never seen a better man !
And you 'll not forget what I done good , not any more than you 'll forget the bad , I know .
And I step aside -- see here -- and leave you and Jim alone .
And you 'll put that down for me too , for it 's a long stretch , is that ! ''
So saying , he stepped back a little way , till he was out of earshot , and there sat down upon a tree-stump and began to whistle , spinning round now and again upon his seat so as to command a sight , sometimes of me and the doctor and sometimes of his unruly ruffians as they went to and fro in the sand between the fire -- which they were busy rekindling -- and the house , from which they brought forth pork and bread to make the breakfast .
`` So , Jim , '' said the doctor sadly , `` here you are .
As you have brewed , so shall you drink , my boy .
Heaven knows , I can not find it in my heart to blame you , but this much I will say , be it kind or unkind : when Captain Smollett was well , you dared not have gone off ; and when he was ill and could n't help it , by George , it was downright cowardly ! ''
I will own that I here began to weep .
`` Doctor , '' I said , `` you might spare me .
I have blamed myself enough ; my life 's forfeit anyway , and I should have been dead by now if Silver had n't stood for me ; and doctor , believe this , I can die -- and I dare say I deserve it -- but what I fear is torture .
If they come to torture me -- '' `` Jim , '' the doctor interrupted , and his voice was quite changed , `` Jim , I ca n't have this .
Whip over , and we 'll run for it . ''
`` Doctor , '' said I , `` I passed my word . ''
`` I know , I know , '' he cried .
`` We ca n't help that , Jim , now .
I 'll take it on my shoulders , holus bolus , blame and shame , my boy ; but stay here , I can not let you .
Jump !
One jump , and you 're out , and we 'll run for it like antelopes . ''
`` No , '' I replied ; `` you know right well you would n't do the thing yourself -- neither you nor squire nor captain ; and no more will I. Silver trusted me ; I passed my word , and back I go .
But , doctor , you did not let me finish .
If they come to torture me , I might let slip a word of where the ship is , for I got the ship , part by luck and part by risking , and she lies in North Inlet , on the southern beach , and just below high water .
At half tide she must be high and dry . ''
`` The ship ! ''
exclaimed the doctor .
Rapidly I described to him my adventures , and he heard me out in silence .
`` There is a kind of fate in this , '' he observed when I had done .
`` Every step , it 's you that saves our lives ; and do you suppose by any chance that we are going to let you lose yours ?
That would be a poor return , my boy .
You found out the plot ; you found Ben Gunn -- the best deed that ever you did , or will do , though you live to ninety .
Oh , by Jupiter , and talking of Ben Gunn !
Why , this is the mischief in person .
Silver ! ''
he cried .
`` Silver !
I 'll give you a piece of advice , '' he continued as the cook drew near again ; `` do n't you be in any great hurry after that treasure . ''
`` Why , sir , I do my possible , which that ai n't , '' said Silver .
`` I can only , asking your pardon , save my life and the boy 's by seeking for that treasure ; and you may lay to that . ''
`` Well , Silver , '' replied the doctor , `` if that is so , I 'll go one step further : look out for squalls when you find it . ''
`` Sir , '' said Silver , `` as between man and man , that 's too much and too little .
What you 're after , why you left the block house , why you given me that there chart , I do n't know , now , do I ?
And yet I done your bidding with my eyes shut and never a word of hope !
But no , this here 's too much .
If you wo n't tell me what you mean plain out , just say so and I 'll leave the helm . ''
`` No , '' said the doctor musingly ; `` I 've no right to say more ; it 's not my secret , you see , Silver , or , I give you my word , I 'd tell it you .
But I 'll go as far with you as I dare go , and a step beyond , for I 'll have my wig sorted by the captain or I 'm mistaken !
And first , I 'll give you a bit of hope ; Silver , if we both get alive out of this wolf-trap , I 'll do my best to save you , short of perjury . ''
Silver 's face was radiant .
`` You could n't say more , I 'm sure , sir , not if you was my mother , '' he cried .
`` Well , that 's my first concession , '' added the doctor .
`` My second is a piece of advice : keep the boy close beside you , and when you need help , halloo .
I 'm off to seek it for you , and that itself will show you if I speak at random .
Good-bye , Jim . ''
And Dr. Livesey shook hands with me through the stockade , nodded to Silver , and set off at a brisk pace into the wood .
31 The Treasure-hunt -- Flint 's Pointer `` JIM , '' said Silver when we were alone , `` if I saved your life , you saved mine ; and I 'll not forget it .
I seen the doctor waving you to run for it -- with the tail of my eye , I did ; and I seen you say no , as plain as hearing .
Jim , that 's one to you .
This is the first glint of hope I had since the attack failed , and I owe it you .
And now , Jim , we 're to go in for this here treasure-hunting , with sealed orders too , and I do n't like it ; and you and me must stick close , back to back like , and we 'll save our necks in spite o ' fate and fortune . ''
Just then a man hailed us from the fire that breakfast was ready , and we were soon seated here and there about the sand over biscuit and fried junk .
They had lit a fire fit to roast an ox , and it was now grown so hot that they could only approach it from the windward , and even there not without precaution .
In the same wasteful spirit , they had cooked , I suppose , three times more than we could eat ; and one of them , with an empty laugh , threw what was left into the fire , which blazed and roared again over this unusual fuel .
I never in my life saw men so careless of the morrow ; hand to mouth is the only word that can describe their way of doing ; and what with wasted food and sleeping sentries , though they were bold enough for a brush and be done with it , I could see their entire unfitness for anything like a prolonged campaign .
Even Silver , eating away , with Captain Flint upon his shoulder , had not a word of blame for their recklessness .
And this the more surprised me , for I thought he had never shown himself so cunning as he did then .
`` Aye , mates , '' said he , `` it 's lucky you have Barbecue to think for you with this here head .
I got what I wanted , I did .
Sure enough , they have the ship .
Where they have it , I do n't know yet ; but once we hit the treasure , we 'll have to jump about and find out .
And then , mates , us that has the boats , I reckon , has the upper hand . ''
Thus he kept running on , with his mouth full of the hot bacon ; thus he restored their hope and confidence , and , I more than suspect , repaired his own at the same time .
`` As for hostage , '' he continued , `` that 's his last talk , I guess , with them he loves so dear .
I 've got my piece o ' news , and thanky to him for that ; but it 's over and done .
I 'll take him in a line when we go treasure-hunting , for we 'll keep him like so much gold , in case of accidents , you mark , and in the meantime .
Once we got the ship and treasure both and off to sea like jolly companions , why then we 'll talk Mr. Hawkins over , we will , and we 'll give him his share , to be sure , for all his kindness . ''
It was no wonder the men were in a good humour now .
For my part , I was horribly cast down .
Should the scheme he had now sketched prove feasible , Silver , already doubly a traitor , would not hesitate to adopt it .
He had still a foot in either camp , and there was no doubt he would prefer wealth and freedom with the pirates to a bare escape from hanging , which was the best he had to hope on our side .
Nay , and even if things so fell out that he was forced to keep his faith with Dr. Livesey , even then what danger lay before us !
What a moment that would be when the suspicions of his followers turned to certainty and he and I should have to fight for dear life -- he a cripple and I a boy -- against five strong and active seamen !
Add to this double apprehension the mystery that still hung over the behaviour of my friends , their unexplained desertion of the stockade , their inexplicable cession of the chart , or harder still to understand , the doctor 's last warning to Silver , `` Look out for squalls when you find it , '' and you will readily believe how little taste I found in my breakfast and with how uneasy a heart I set forth behind my captors on the quest for treasure .
We made a curious figure , had anyone been there to see us -- all in soiled sailor clothes and all but me armed to the teeth .
Silver had two guns slung about him -- one before and one behind -- besides the great cutlass at his waist and a pistol in each pocket of his square-tailed coat .
To complete his strange appearance , Captain Flint sat perched upon his shoulder and gabbling odds and ends of purposeless sea-talk .
I had a line about my waist and followed obediently after the sea-cook , who held the loose end of the rope , now in his free hand , now between his powerful teeth .
For all the world , I was led like a dancing bear .
The other men were variously burthened , some carrying picks and shovels -- for that had been the very first necessary they brought ashore from the HISPANIOLA -- others laden with pork , bread , and brandy for the midday meal .
All the stores , I observed , came from our stock , and I could see the truth of Silver 's words the night before .
Had he not struck a bargain with the doctor , he and his mutineers , deserted by the ship , must have been driven to subsist on clear water and the proceeds of their hunting .
Water would have been little to their taste ; a sailor is not usually a good shot ; and besides all that , when they were so short of eatables , it was not likely they would be very flush of powder .
Well , thus equipped , we all set out -- even the fellow with the broken head , who should certainly have kept in shadow -- and straggled , one after another , to the beach , where the two gigs awaited us .
Even these bore trace of the drunken folly of the pirates , one in a broken thwart , and both in their muddy and unbailed condition .
Both were to be carried along with us for the sake of safety ; and so , with our numbers divided between them , we set forth upon the bosom of the anchorage .
As we pulled over , there was some discussion on the chart .
The red cross was , of course , far too large to be a guide ; and the terms of the note on the back , as you will hear , admitted of some ambiguity .
They ran , the reader may remember , thus : Tall tree , Spy-glass shoulder , bearing a point to the N. of N.N.E. Skeleton Island E.S.E. and by E. Ten feet .
A tall tree was thus the principal mark .
Now , right before us the anchorage was bounded by a plateau from two to three hundred feet high , adjoining on the north the sloping southern shoulder of the Spy-glass and rising again towards the south into the rough , cliffy eminence called the Mizzen-mast Hill .
The top of the plateau was dotted thickly with pine-trees of varying height .
Every here and there , one of a different species rose forty or fifty feet clear above its neighbours , and which of these was the particular `` tall tree '' of Captain Flint could only be decided on the spot , and by the readings of the compass .
Yet , although that was the case , every man on board the boats had picked a favourite of his own ere we were half-way over , Long John alone shrugging his shoulders and bidding them wait till they were there .
We pulled easily , by Silver 's directions , not to weary the hands prematurely , and after quite a long passage , landed at the mouth of the second river -- that which runs down a woody cleft of the Spy-glass .
Thence , bending to our left , we began to ascend the slope towards the plateau .
At the first outset , heavy , miry ground and a matted , marish vegetation greatly delayed our progress ; but by little and little the hill began to steepen and become stony under foot , and the wood to change its character and to grow in a more open order .
It was , indeed , a most pleasant portion of the island that we were now approaching .
A heavy-scented broom and many flowering shrubs had almost taken the place of grass .
Thickets of green nutmeg-trees were dotted here and there with the red columns and the broad shadow of the pines ; and the first mingled their spice with the aroma of the others .
The air , besides , was fresh and stirring , and this , under the sheer sunbeams , was a wonderful refreshment to our senses .
The party spread itself abroad , in a fan shape , shouting and leaping to and fro .
About the centre , and a good way behind the rest , Silver and I followed -- I tethered by my rope , he ploughing , with deep pants , among the sliding gravel .
From time to time , indeed , I had to lend him a hand , or he must have missed his footing and fallen backward down the hill .
We had thus proceeded for about half a mile and were approaching the brow of the plateau when the man upon the farthest left began to cry aloud , as if in terror .
Shout after shout came from him , and the others began to run in his direction .
`` He ca n't ' a found the treasure , '' said old Morgan , hurrying past us from the right , `` for that 's clean a-top . ''
Indeed , as we found when we also reached the spot , it was something very different .
At the foot of a pretty big pine and involved in a green creeper , which had even partly lifted some of the smaller bones , a human skeleton lay , with a few shreds of clothing , on the ground .
I believe a chill struck for a moment to every heart .
`` He was a seaman , '' said George Merry , who , bolder than the rest , had gone up close and was examining the rags of clothing .
`` Leastways , this is good sea-cloth . ''
`` Aye , aye , '' said Silver ; `` like enough ; you would n't look to find a bishop here , I reckon .
But what sort of a way is that for bones to lie ?
` Tai n't in natur ' . ''
Indeed , on a second glance , it seemed impossible to fancy that the body was in a natural position .
But for some disarray -LRB- the work , perhaps , of the birds that had fed upon him or of the slow-growing creeper that had gradually enveloped his remains -RRB- the man lay perfectly straight -- his feet pointing in one direction , his hands , raised above his head like a diver 's , pointing directly in the opposite .
`` I 've taken a notion into my old numbskull , '' observed Silver .
`` Here 's the compass ; there 's the tip-top p ` int o ' Skeleton Island , stickin ' out like a tooth .
Just take a bearing , will you , along the line of them bones . ''
It was done .
The body pointed straight in the direction of the island , and the compass read duly E.S.E. and by E. `` I thought so , '' cried the cook ; `` this here is a p ` inter .
Right up there is our line for the Pole Star and the jolly dollars .
But , by thunder !
If it do n't make me cold inside to think of Flint .
This is one of HIS jokes , and no mistake .
Him and these six was alone here ; he killed 'em , every man ; and this one he hauled here and laid down by compass , shiver my timbers !
They 're long bones , and the hair 's been yellow .
Aye , that would be Allardyce .
You mind Allardyce , Tom Morgan ? ''
`` Aye , aye , '' returned Morgan ; `` I mind him ; he owed me money , he did , and took my knife ashore with him . ''
`` Speaking of knives , '' said another , `` why do n't we find his 'n lying round ?
Flint war n't the man to pick a seaman 's pocket ; and the birds , I guess , would leave it be . ''
`` By the powers , and that 's true ! ''
cried Silver .
`` There ai n't a thing left here , '' said Merry , still feeling round among the bones ; `` not a copper doit nor a baccy box .
It do n't look nat ` ral to me . ''
`` No , by gum , it do n't , '' agreed Silver ; `` not nat ` ral , nor not nice , says you .
Great guns !
Messmates , but if Flint was living , this would be a hot spot for you and me .
Six they were , and six are we ; and bones is what they are now . ''
`` I saw him dead with these here deadlights , '' said Morgan .
`` Billy took me in .
There he laid , with penny-pieces on his eyes . ''
`` Dead -- aye , sure enough he 's dead and gone below , '' said the fellow with the bandage ; `` but if ever sperrit walked , it would be Flint 's .
Dear heart , but he died bad , did Flint ! ''
`` Aye , that he did , '' observed another ; `` now he raged , and now he hollered for the rum , and now he sang .
` Fifteen Men ' were his only song , mates ; and I tell you true , I never rightly liked to hear it since .
It was main hot , and the windy was open , and I hear that old song comin ' out as clear as clear -- and the death-haul on the man already . ''
`` Come , come , '' said Silver ; `` stow this talk .
He 's dead , and he do n't walk , that I know ; leastways , he wo n't walk by day , and you may lay to that .
Care killed a cat .
Fetch ahead for the doubloons . ''
We started , certainly ; but in spite of the hot sun and the staring daylight , the pirates no longer ran separate and shouting through the wood , but kept side by side and spoke with bated breath .
The terror of the dead buccaneer had fallen on their spirits .
32 The Treasure-hunt -- The Voice Among the Trees PARTLY from the damping influence of this alarm , partly to rest Silver and the sick folk , the whole party sat down as soon as they had gained the brow of the ascent .
The plateau being somewhat tilted towards the west , this spot on which we had paused commanded a wide prospect on either hand .
Before us , over the tree-tops , we beheld the Cape of the Woods fringed with surf ; behind , we not only looked down upon the anchorage and Skeleton Island , but saw -- clear across the spit and the eastern lowlands -- a great field of open sea upon the east .
Sheer above us rose the Spyglass , here dotted with single pines , there black with precipices .
There was no sound but that of the distant breakers , mounting from all round , and the chirp of countless insects in the brush .
Not a man , not a sail , upon the sea ; the very largeness of the view increased the sense of solitude .
Silver , as he sat , took certain bearings with his compass .
`` There are three ` tall trees ' '' said he , `` about in the right line from Skeleton Island .
` Spy-glass shoulder , ' I take it , means that lower p ` int there .
It 's child 's play to find the stuff now .
I 've half a mind to dine first . ''
`` I do n't feel sharp , '' growled Morgan .
`` Thinkin ' o ' Flint -- I think it were -- as done me . ''
`` Ah , well , my son , you praise your stars he 's dead , '' said Silver .
`` He were an ugly devil , '' cried a third pirate with a shudder ; `` that blue in the face too ! ''
`` That was how the rum took him , '' added Merry .
`` Blue !
Well , I reckon he was blue .
That 's a true word . ''
Ever since they had found the skeleton and got upon this train of thought , they had spoken lower and lower , and they had almost got to whispering by now , so that the sound of their talk hardly interrupted the silence of the wood .
All of a sudden , out of the middle of the trees in front of us , a thin , high , trembling voice struck up the well-known air and words : `` Fifteen men on the dead man 's chest -- Yo-ho-ho , and a bottle of rum ! ''
I never have seen men more dreadfully affected than the pirates .
The colour went from their six faces like enchantment ; some leaped to their feet , some clawed hold of others ; Morgan grovelled on the ground .
`` It 's Flint , by -- ! ''
cried Merry .
The song had stopped as suddenly as it began -- broken off , you would have said , in the middle of a note , as though someone had laid his hand upon the singer 's mouth .
Coming through the clear , sunny atmosphere among the green tree-tops , I thought it had sounded airily and sweetly ; and the effect on my companions was the stranger .
`` Come , '' said Silver , struggling with his ashen lips to get the word out ; `` this wo n't do .
Stand by to go about .
This is a rum start , and I ca n't name the voice , but it 's someone skylarking -- someone that 's flesh and blood , and you may lay to that . ''
His courage had come back as he spoke , and some of the colour to his face along with it .
Already the others had begun to lend an ear to this encouragement and were coming a little to themselves , when the same voice broke out again -- not this time singing , but in a faint distant hail that echoed yet fainter among the clefts of the Spy-glass .
`` Darby M'Graw , '' it wailed -- for that is the word that best describes the sound -- `` Darby M'Graw !
Darby M'Graw ! ''
again and again and again ; and then rising a little higher , and with an oath that I leave out : `` Fetch aft the rum , Darby ! ''
The buccaneers remained rooted to the ground , their eyes starting from their heads .
Long after the voice had died away they still stared in silence , dreadfully , before them .
`` That fixes it ! ''
gasped one .
`` Let 's go . ''
`` They was his last words , '' moaned Morgan , `` his last words above board . ''
Dick had his Bible out and was praying volubly .
He had been well brought up , had Dick , before he came to sea and fell among bad companions .
Still Silver was unconquered .
I could hear his teeth rattle in his head , but he had not yet surrendered .
`` Nobody in this here island ever heard of Darby , '' he muttered ; `` not one but us that 's here . ''
And then , making a great effort : `` Shipmates , '' he cried , `` I 'm here to get that stuff , and I 'll not be beat by man or devil .
I never was feared of Flint in his life , and , by the powers , I 'll face him dead .
There 's seven hundred thousand pound not a quarter of a mile from here .
When did ever a gentleman o ' fortune show his stern to that much dollars for a boozy old seaman with a blue mug -- and him dead too ? ''
But there was no sign of reawakening courage in his followers , rather , indeed , of growing terror at the irreverence of his words .
`` Belay there , John ! ''
said Merry .
`` Do n't you cross a sperrit . ''
And the rest were all too terrified to reply .
They would have run away severally had they dared ; but fear kept them together , and kept them close by John , as if his daring helped them .
He , on his part , had pretty well fought his weakness down .
`` Sperrit ?
Well , maybe , '' he said .
`` But there 's one thing not clear to me .
There was an echo .
Now , no man ever seen a sperrit with a shadow ; well then , what 's he doing with an echo to him , I should like to know ?
That ai n't in natur ' , surely ? ''
This argument seemed weak enough to me .
But you can never tell what will affect the superstitious , and to my wonder , George Merry was greatly relieved .
`` Well , that 's so , '' he said .
`` You 've a head upon your shoulders , John , and no mistake .
` Bout ship , mates !
This here crew is on a wrong tack , I do believe .
And come to think on it , it was like Flint 's voice , I grant you , but not just so clear-away like it , after all .
It was liker somebody else 's voice now -- it was liker -- '' `` By the powers , Ben Gunn ! ''
roared Silver .
`` Aye , and so it were , '' cried Morgan , springing on his knees .
`` Ben Gunn it were ! ''
`` It do n't make much odds , do it , now ? ''
asked Dick .
`` Ben Gunn 's not here in the body any more 'n Flint . ''
But the older hands greeted this remark with scorn .
`` Why , nobody minds Ben Gunn , '' cried Merry ; `` dead or alive , nobody minds him . ''
It was extraordinary how their spirits had returned and how the natural colour had revived in their faces .
Soon they were chatting together , with intervals of listening ; and not long after , hearing no further sound , they shouldered the tools and set forth again , Merry walking first with Silver 's compass to keep them on the right line with Skeleton Island .
He had said the truth : dead or alive , nobody minded Ben Gunn .
Dick alone still held his Bible , and looked around him as he went , with fearful glances ; but he found no sympathy , and Silver even joked him on his precautions .
`` I told you , '' said he -- `` I told you you had sp ` iled your Bible .
If it ai n't no good to swear by , what do you suppose a sperrit would give for it ?
Not that ! ''
and he snapped his big fingers , halting a moment on his crutch .
But Dick was not to be comforted ; indeed , it was soon plain to me that the lad was falling sick ; hastened by heat , exhaustion , and the shock of his alarm , the fever , predicted by Dr. Livesey , was evidently growing swiftly higher .
It was fine open walking here , upon the summit ; our way lay a little downhill , for , as I have said , the plateau tilted towards the west .
The pines , great and small , grew wide apart ; and even between the clumps of nutmeg and azalea , wide open spaces baked in the hot sunshine .
Striking , as we did , pretty near north-west across the island , we drew , on the one hand , ever nearer under the shoulders of the Spy-glass , and on the other , looked ever wider over that western bay where I had once tossed and trembled in the coracle .
The first of the tall trees was reached , and by the bearings proved the wrong one .
So with the second .
The third rose nearly two hundred feet into the air above a clump of underwood -- a giant of a vegetable , with a red column as big as a cottage , and a wide shadow around in which a company could have manoeuvred .
It was conspicuous far to sea both on the east and west and might have been entered as a sailing mark upon the chart .
But it was not its size that now impressed my companions ; it was the knowledge that seven hundred thousand pounds in gold lay somewhere buried below its spreading shadow .
The thought of the money , as they drew nearer , swallowed up their previous terrors .
Their eyes burned in their heads ; their feet grew speedier and lighter ; their whole soul was found up in that fortune , that whole lifetime of extravagance and pleasure , that lay waiting there for each of them .
Silver hobbled , grunting , on his crutch ; his nostrils stood out and quivered ; he cursed like a madman when the flies settled on his hot and shiny countenance ; he plucked furiously at the line that held me to him and from time to time turned his eyes upon me with a deadly look .
Certainly he took no pains to hide his thoughts , and certainly I read them like print .
In the immediate nearness of the gold , all else had been forgotten : his promise and the doctor 's warning were both things of the past , and I could not doubt that he hoped to seize upon the treasure , find and board the HISPANIOLA under cover of night , cut every honest throat about that island , and sail away as he had at first intended , laden with crimes and riches .
Shaken as I was with these alarms , it was hard for me to keep up with the rapid pace of the treasure-hunters .
Now and again I stumbled , and it was then that Silver plucked so roughly at the rope and launched at me his murderous glances .
Dick , who had dropped behind us and now brought up the rear , was babbling to himself both prayers and curses as his fever kept rising .
This also added to my wretchedness , and to crown all , I was haunted by the thought of the tragedy that had once been acted on that plateau , when that ungodly buccaneer with the blue face -- he who died at Savannah , singing and shouting for drink -- had there , with his own hand , cut down his six accomplices .
This grove that was now so peaceful must then have rung with cries , I thought ; and even with the thought I could believe I heard it ringing still .
We were now at the margin of the thicket .
`` Huzza , mates , all together ! ''
shouted Merry ; and the foremost broke into a run .
And suddenly , not ten yards further , we beheld them stop .
A low cry arose .
Silver doubled his pace , digging away with the foot of his crutch like one possessed ; and next moment he and I had come also to a dead halt .
Before us was a great excavation , not very recent , for the sides had fallen in and grass had sprouted on the bottom .
In this were the shaft of a pick broken in two and the boards of several packing-cases strewn around .
On one of these boards I saw , branded with a hot iron , the name WALRUS -- the name of Flint 's ship .
All was clear to probation .
The CACHE had been found and rifled ; the seven hundred thousand pounds were gone !
33 The Fall of a Chieftain THERE never was such an overturn in this world .
Each of these six men was as though he had been struck .
But with Silver the blow passed almost instantly .
Every thought of his soul had been set full-stretch , like a racer , on that money ; well , he was brought up , in a single second , dead ; and he kept his head , found his temper , and changed his plan before the others had had time to realize the disappointment .
`` Jim , '' he whispered , `` take that , and stand by for trouble . ''
And he passed me a double-barrelled pistol .
At the same time , he began quietly moving northward , and in a few steps had put the hollow between us two and the other five .
Then he looked at me and nodded , as much as to say , `` Here is a narrow corner , '' as , indeed , I thought it was .
His looks were not quite friendly , and I was so revolted at these constant changes that I could not forbear whispering , `` So you 've changed sides again . ''
There was no time left for him to answer in .
The buccaneers , with oaths and cries , began to leap , one after another , into the pit and to dig with their fingers , throwing the boards aside as they did so .
Morgan found a piece of gold .
He held it up with a perfect spout of oaths .
It was a two-guinea piece , and it went from hand to hand among them for a quarter of a minute .
`` Two guineas ! ''
roared Merry , shaking it at Silver .
`` That 's your seven hundred thousand pounds , is it ?
You 're the man for bargains , ai n't you ?
You 're him that never bungled nothing , you wooden-headed lubber ! ''
`` Dig away , boys , '' said Silver with the coolest insolence ; `` you 'll find some pig-nuts and I should n't wonder . ''
`` Pig-nuts ! ''
repeated Merry , in a scream .
`` Mates , do you hear that ?
I tell you now , that man there knew it all along .
Look in the face of him and you 'll see it wrote there . ''
`` Ah , Merry , '' remarked Silver , `` standing for cap'n again ?
You 're a pushing lad , to be sure . ''
But this time everyone was entirely in Merry 's favour .
They began to scramble out of the excavation , darting furious glances behind them .
One thing I observed , which looked well for us : they all got out upon the opposite side from Silver .
Well , there we stood , two on one side , five on the other , the pit between us , and nobody screwed up high enough to offer the first blow .
Silver never moved ; he watched them , very upright on his crutch , and looked as cool as ever I saw him .
He was brave , and no mistake .
At last Merry seemed to think a speech might help matters .
`` Mates , '' says he , `` there 's two of them alone there ; one 's the old cripple that brought us all here and blundered us down to this ; the other 's that cub that I mean to have the heart of .
Now , mates -- '' He was raising his arm and his voice , and plainly meant to lead a charge .
But just then -- crack !
crack !
crack !
-- three musket-shots flashed out of the thicket .
Merry tumbled head foremost into the excavation ; the man with the bandage spun round like a teetotum and fell all his length upon his side , where he lay dead , but still twitching ; and the other three turned and ran for it with all their might .
Before you could wink , Long John had fired two barrels of a pistol into the struggling Merry , and as the man rolled up his eyes at him in the last agony , `` George , '' said he , `` I reckon I settled you . ''
At the same moment , the doctor , Gray , and Ben Gunn joined us , with smoking muskets , from among the nutmeg-trees .
`` Forward ! ''
cried the doctor .
`` Double quick , my lads .
We must head 'em off the boats . ''
And we set off at a great pace , sometimes plunging through the bushes to the chest .
I tell you , but Silver was anxious to keep up with us .
The work that man went through , leaping on his crutch till the muscles of his chest were fit to burst , was work no sound man ever equalled ; and so thinks the doctor .
As it was , he was already thirty yards behind us and on the verge of strangling when we reached the brow of the slope .
`` Doctor , '' he hailed , `` see there !
No hurry ! ''
Sure enough there was no hurry .
In a more open part of the plateau , we could see the three survivors still running in the same direction as they had started , right for Mizzenmast Hill .
We were already between them and the boats ; and so we four sat down to breathe , while Long John , mopping his face , came slowly up with us .
`` Thank ye kindly , doctor , '' says he .
`` You came in in about the nick , I guess , for me and Hawkins .
And so it 's you , Ben Gunn ! ''
he added .
`` Well , you 're a nice one , to be sure . ''
`` I 'm Ben Gunn , I am , '' replied the maroon , wriggling like an eel in his embarrassment .
`` And , '' he added , after a long pause , `` how do , Mr. Silver ?
Pretty well , I thank ye , says you . ''
`` Ben , Ben , '' murmured Silver , `` to think as you 've done me ! ''
The doctor sent back Gray for one of the pick-axes deserted , in their flight , by the mutineers , and then as we proceeded leisurely downhill to where the boats were lying , related in a few words what had taken place .
It was a story that profoundly interested Silver ; and Ben Gunn , the half-idiot maroon , was the hero from beginning to end .
Ben , in his long , lonely wanderings about the island , had found the skeleton -- it was he that had rifled it ; he had found the treasure ; he had dug it up -LRB- it was the haft of his pick-axe that lay broken in the excavation -RRB- ; he had carried it on his back , in many weary journeys , from the foot of the tall pine to a cave he had on the two-pointed hill at the north-east angle of the island , and there it had lain stored in safety since two months before the arrival of the HISPANIOLA .
When the doctor had wormed this secret from him on the afternoon of the attack , and when next morning he saw the anchorage deserted , he had gone to Silver , given him the chart , which was now useless -- given him the stores , for Ben Gunn 's cave was well supplied with goats ' meat salted by himself -- given anything and everything to get a chance of moving in safety from the stockade to the two-pointed hill , there to be clear of malaria and keep a guard upon the money .
`` As for you , Jim , '' he said , `` it went against my heart , but I did what I thought best for those who had stood by their duty ; and if you were not one of these , whose fault was it ? ''
That morning , finding that I was to be involved in the horrid disappointment he had prepared for the mutineers , he had run all the way to the cave , and leaving the squire to guard the captain , had taken Gray and the maroon and started , making the diagonal across the island to be at hand beside the pine .
Soon , however , he saw that our party had the start of him ; and Ben Gunn , being fleet of foot , had been dispatched in front to do his best alone .
Then it had occurred to him to work upon the superstitions of his former shipmates , and he was so far successful that Gray and the doctor had come up and were already ambushed before the arrival of the treasure-hunters .
`` Ah , '' said Silver , `` it were fortunate for me that I had Hawkins here .
You would have let old John be cut to bits , and never given it a thought , doctor . ''
`` Not a thought , '' replied Dr. Livesey cheerily .
And by this time we had reached the gigs .
The doctor , with the pick-axe , demolished one of them , and then we all got aboard the other and set out to go round by sea for North Inlet .
This was a run of eight or nine miles .
Silver , though he was almost killed already with fatigue , was set to an oar , like the rest of us , and we were soon skimming swiftly over a smooth sea .
Soon we passed out of the straits and doubled the south-east corner of the island , round which , four days ago , we had towed the HISPANIOLA .
As we passed the two-pointed hill , we could see the black mouth of Ben Gunn 's cave and a figure standing by it , leaning on a musket .
It was the squire , and we waved a handkerchief and gave him three cheers , in which the voice of Silver joined as heartily as any .
Three miles farther , just inside the mouth of North Inlet , what should we meet but the HISPANIOLA , cruising by herself ?
The last flood had lifted her , and had there been much wind or a strong tide current , as in the southern anchorage , we should never have found her more , or found her stranded beyond help .
As it was , there was little amiss beyond the wreck of the main-sail .
Another anchor was got ready and dropped in a fathom and a half of water .
We all pulled round again to Rum Cove , the nearest point for Ben Gunn 's treasure-house ; and then Gray , single-handed , returned with the gig to the HISPANIOLA , where he was to pass the night on guard .
A gentle slope ran up from the beach to the entrance of the cave .
At the top , the squire met us .
To me he was cordial and kind , saying nothing of my escapade either in the way of blame or praise .
At Silver 's polite salute he somewhat flushed .
`` John Silver , '' he said , `` you 're a prodigious villain and imposter -- a monstrous imposter , sir .
I am told I am not to prosecute you .
Well , then , I will not .
But the dead men , sir , hang about your neck like mill-stones . ''
`` Thank you kindly , sir , '' replied Long John , again saluting .
`` I dare you to thank me ! ''
cried the squire .
`` It is a gross dereliction of my duty .
Stand back . ''
And thereupon we all entered the cave .
It was a large , airy place , with a little spring and a pool of clear water , overhung with ferns .
The floor was sand .
Before a big fire lay Captain Smollett ; and in a far corner , only duskily flickered over by the blaze , I beheld great heaps of coin and quadrilaterals built of bars of gold .
That was Flint 's treasure that we had come so far to seek and that had cost already the lives of seventeen men from the HISPANIOLA .
How many it had cost in the amassing , what blood and sorrow , what good ships scuttled on the deep , what brave men walking the plank blindfold , what shot of cannon , what shame and lies and cruelty , perhaps no man alive could tell .
Yet there were still three upon that island -- Silver , and old Morgan , and Ben Gunn -- who had each taken his share in these crimes , as each had hoped in vain to share in the reward .
`` Come in , Jim , '' said the captain .
`` You 're a good boy in your line , Jim , but I do n't think you and me 'll go to sea again .
You 're too much of the born favourite for me .
Is that you , John Silver ?
What brings you here , man ? ''
`` Come back to my dooty , sir , '' returned Silver .
`` Ah ! ''
said the captain , and that was all he said .
What a supper I had of it that night , with all my friends around me ; and what a meal it was , with Ben Gunn 's salted goat and some delicacies and a bottle of old wine from the HISPANIOLA .
Never , I am sure , were people gayer or happier .
And there was Silver , sitting back almost out of the firelight , but eating heartily , prompt to spring forward when anything was wanted , even joining quietly in our laughter -- the same bland , polite , obsequious seaman of the voyage out .
34 And Last THE next morning we fell early to work , for the transportation of this great mass of gold near a mile by land to the beach , and thence three miles by boat to the HISPANIOLA , was a considerable task for so small a number of workmen .
The three fellows still abroad upon the island did not greatly trouble us ; a single sentry on the shoulder of the hill was sufficient to ensure us against any sudden onslaught , and we thought , besides , they had had more than enough of fighting .
Therefore the work was pushed on briskly .
Gray and Ben Gunn came and went with the boat , while the rest during their absences piled treasure on the beach .
Two of the bars , slung in a rope 's end , made a good load for a grown man -- one that he was glad to walk slowly with .
For my part , as I was not much use at carrying , I was kept busy all day in the cave packing the minted money into bread-bags .
It was a strange collection , like Billy Bones 's hoard for the diversity of coinage , but so much larger and so much more varied that I think I never had more pleasure than in sorting them .
English , French , Spanish , Portuguese , Georges , and Louises , doubloons and double guineas and moidores and sequins , the pictures of all the kings of Europe for the last hundred years , strange Oriental pieces stamped with what looked like wisps of string or bits of spider 's web , round pieces and square pieces , and pieces bored through the middle , as if to wear them round your neck -- nearly every variety of money in the world must , I think , have found a place in that collection ; and for number , I am sure they were like autumn leaves , so that my back ached with stooping and my fingers with sorting them out .
Day after day this work went on ; by every evening a fortune had been stowed aboard , but there was another fortune waiting for the morrow ; and all this time we heard nothing of the three surviving mutineers .
At last -- I think it was on the third night -- the doctor and I were strolling on the shoulder of the hill where it overlooks the lowlands of the isle , when , from out the thick darkness below , the wind brought us a noise between shrieking and singing .
It was only a snatch that reached our ears , followed by the former silence .
`` Heaven forgive them , '' said the doctor ; '' 't is the mutineers ! ''
`` All drunk , sir , '' struck in the voice of Silver from behind us .
Silver , I should say , was allowed his entire liberty , and in spite of daily rebuffs , seemed to regard himself once more as quite a privileged and friendly dependent .
Indeed , it was remarkable how well he bore these slights and with what unwearying politeness he kept on trying to ingratiate himself with all .
Yet , I think , none treated him better than a dog , unless it was Ben Gunn , who was still terribly afraid of his old quartermaster , or myself , who had really something to thank him for ; although for that matter , I suppose , I had reason to think even worse of him than anybody else , for I had seen him meditating a fresh treachery upon the plateau .
Accordingly , it was pretty gruffly that the doctor answered him .
`` Drunk or raving , '' said he .
`` Right you were , sir , '' replied Silver ; `` and precious little odds which , to you and me . ''
`` I suppose you would hardly ask me to call you a humane man , '' returned the doctor with a sneer , `` and so my feelings may surprise you , Master Silver .
But if I were sure they were raving -- as I am morally certain one , at least , of them is down with fever -- I should leave this camp , and at whatever risk to my own carcass , take them the assistance of my skill . ''
`` Ask your pardon , sir , you would be very wrong , '' quoth Silver .
`` You would lose your precious life , and you may lay to that .
I 'm on your side now , hand and glove ; and I should n't wish for to see the party weakened , let alone yourself , seeing as I know what I owes you .
But these men down there , they could n't keep their word -- no , not supposing they wished to ; and what 's more , they could n't believe as you could . ''
`` No , '' said the doctor .
`` You 're the man to keep your word , we know that . ''
Well , that was about the last news we had of the three pirates .
Only once we heard a gunshot a great way off and supposed them to be hunting .
A council was held , and it was decided that we must desert them on the island -- to the huge glee , I must say , of Ben Gunn , and with the strong approval of Gray .
We left a good stock of powder and shot , the bulk of the salt goat , a few medicines , and some other necessaries , tools , clothing , a spare sail , a fathom or two of rope , and by the particular desire of the doctor , a handsome present of tobacco .
That was about our last doing on the island .
Before that , we had got the treasure stowed and had shipped enough water and the remainder of the goat meat in case of any distress ; and at last , one fine morning , we weighed anchor , which was about all that we could manage , and stood out of North Inlet , the same colours flying that the captain had flown and fought under at the palisade .
The three fellows must have been watching us closer than we thought for , as we soon had proved .
For coming through the narrows , we had to lie very near the southern point , and there we saw all three of them kneeling together on a spit of sand , with their arms raised in supplication .
It went to all our hearts , I think , to leave them in that wretched state ; but we could not risk another mutiny ; and to take them home for the gibbet would have been a cruel sort of kindness .
The doctor hailed them and told them of the stores we had left , and where they were to find them .
But they continued to call us by name and appeal to us , for God 's sake , to be merciful and not leave them to die in such a place .
At last , seeing the ship still bore on her course and was now swiftly drawing out of earshot , one of them -- I know not which it was -- leapt to his feet with a hoarse cry , whipped his musket to his shoulder , and sent a shot whistling over Silver 's head and through the main-sail .
After that , we kept under cover of the bulwarks , and when next I looked out they had disappeared from the spit , and the spit itself had almost melted out of sight in the growing distance .
That was , at least , the end of that ; and before noon , to my inexpressible joy , the highest rock of Treasure Island had sunk into the blue round of sea .
We were so short of men that everyone on board had to bear a hand -- only the captain lying on a mattress in the stern and giving his orders , for though greatly recovered he was still in want of quiet .
We laid her head for the nearest port in Spanish America , for we could not risk the voyage home without fresh hands ; and as it was , what with baffling winds and a couple of fresh gales , we were all worn out before we reached it .
It was just at sundown when we cast anchor in a most beautiful land-locked gulf , and were immediately surrounded by shore boats full of Negroes and Mexican Indians and half-bloods selling fruits and vegetables and offering to dive for bits of money .
The sight of so many good-humoured faces -LRB- especially the blacks -RRB- , the taste of the tropical fruits , and above all the lights that began to shine in the town made a most charming contrast to our dark and bloody sojourn on the island ; and the doctor and the squire , taking me along with them , went ashore to pass the early part of the night .
Here they met the captain of an English man-of-war , fell in talk with him , went on board his ship , and , in short , had so agreeable a time that day was breaking when we came alongside the HISPANIOLA .
Ben Gunn was on deck alone , and as soon as we came on board he began , with wonderful contortions , to make us a confession .
Silver was gone .
The maroon had connived at his escape in a shore boat some hours ago , and he now assured us he had only done so to preserve our lives , which would certainly have been forfeit if `` that man with the one leg had stayed aboard . ''
But this was not all .
The sea-cook had not gone empty-handed .
He had cut through a bulkhead unobserved and had removed one of the sacks of coin , worth perhaps three or four hundred guineas , to help him on his further wanderings .
I think we were all pleased to be so cheaply quit of him .
Well , to make a long story short , we got a few hands on board , made a good cruise home , and the HISPANIOLA reached Bristol just as Mr. Blandly was beginning to think of fitting out her consort .
Five men only of those who had sailed returned with her .
`` Drink and the devil had done for the rest , '' with a vengeance , although , to be sure , we were not quite in so bad a case as that other ship they sang about : With one man of her crew alive , What put to sea with seventy-five .
All of us had an ample share of the treasure and used it wisely or foolishly , according to our natures .
Captain Smollett is now retired from the sea .
Gray not only saved his money , but being suddenly smit with the desire to rise , also studied his profession , and he is now mate and part owner of a fine full-rigged ship , married besides , and the father of a family .
As for Ben Gunn , he got a thousand pounds , which he spent or lost in three weeks , or to be more exact , in nineteen days , for he was back begging on the twentieth .
Then he was given a lodge to keep , exactly as he had feared upon the island ; and he still lives , a great favourite , though something of a butt , with the country boys , and a notable singer in church on Sundays and saints ' days .
Of Silver we have heard no more .
That formidable seafaring man with one leg has at last gone clean out of my life ; but I dare say he met his old Negress , and perhaps still lives in comfort with her and Captain Flint .
It is to be hoped so , I suppose , for his chances of comfort in another world are very small .
The bar silver and the arms still lie , for all that I know , where Flint buried them ; and certainly they shall lie there for me .
Oxen and wain-ropes would not bring me back again to that accursed island ; and the worst dreams that ever I have are when I hear the surf booming about its coasts or start upright in bed with the sharp voice of Captain Flint still ringing in my ears : `` Pieces of eight !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___Just_So_Stories.txt.out
HOW THE WHALE GOT HIS THROAT IN the sea , once upon a time , O my Best Beloved , there was a Whale , and he ate fishes .
He ate the starfish and the garfish , and the crab and the dab , and the plaice and the dace , and the skate and his mate , and the mackereel and the pickereel , and the really truly twirly-whirly eel .
All the fishes he could find in all the sea he ate with his mouth -- so !
Till at last there was only one small fish left in all the sea , and he was a small ` Stute Fish , and he swam a little behind the Whale 's right ear , so as to be out of harm 's way .
Then the Whale stood up on his tail and said , ` I 'm hungry . '
And the small ` Stute Fish said in a small ` stute voice , ` Noble and generous Cetacean , have you ever tasted Man ? '
` No , ' said the Whale .
` What is it like ? '
` Nice , ' said the small ` Stute Fish .
` Nice but nubbly . '
` Then fetch me some , ' said the Whale , and he made the sea froth up with his tail .
` One at a time is enough , ' said the ` Stute Fish .
` If you swim to latitude Fifty North , longitude Forty West -LRB- that is magic -RRB- , you will find , sitting on a raft , in the middle of the sea , with nothing on but a pair of blue canvas breeches , a pair of suspenders -LRB- you must not forget the suspenders , Best Beloved -RRB- , and a jack-knife , one ship-wrecked Mariner , who , it is only fair to tell you , is a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity . '
So the Whale swam and swam to latitude Fifty North , longitude Forty West , as fast as he could swim , and on a raft , in the middle of the sea , with nothing to wear except a pair of blue canvas breeches , a pair of suspenders -LRB- you must particularly remember the suspenders , Best Beloved -RRB- , and a jack-knife , he found one single , solitary shipwrecked Mariner , trailing his toes in the water .
-LRB- He had his mummy 's leave to paddle , or else he would never have done it , because he was a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity . -RRB-
Then the Whale opened his mouth back and back and back till it nearly touched his tail , and he swallowed the shipwrecked Mariner , and the raft he was sitting on , and his blue canvas breeches , and the suspenders -LRB- which you must not forget -RRB- , and the jack-knife -- He swallowed them all down into his warm , dark , inside cup-boards , and then he smacked his lips -- so , and turned round three times on his tail .
But as soon as the Mariner , who was a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity , found himself truly inside the Whale 's warm , dark , inside cup-boards , he stumped and he jumped and he thumped and he bumped , and he pranced and he danced , and he banged and he clanged , and he hit and he bit , and he leaped and he creeped , and he prowled and he howled , and he hopped and he dropped , and he cried and he sighed , and he crawled and he bawled , and he stepped and he lepped , and he danced hornpipes where he should n't , and the Whale felt most unhappy indeed .
-LRB- Have you forgotten the suspenders ? -RRB-
So he said to the ` Stute Fish , ` This man is very nubbly , and besides he is making me hiccough .
What shall I do ? '
` Tell him to come out , ' said the ` Stute Fish .
So the Whale called down his own throat to the shipwrecked Mariner , ` Come out and behave yourself .
I 've got the hiccoughs . '
` Nay , nay ! '
said the Mariner .
` Not so , but far otherwise .
Take me to my natal-shore and the white-cliffs-of-Albion , and I 'll think about it . '
And he began to dance more than ever .
` You had better take him home , ' said the ` Stute Fish to the Whale . '
I ought to have warned you that he is a man of infinite-resource-and-sagacity . '
So the Whale swam and swam and swam , with both flippers and his tail , as hard as he could for the hiccoughs ; and at last he saw the Mariner 's natal-shore and the white-cliffs-of-Albion , and he rushed half-way up the beach , and opened his mouth wide and wide and wide , and said , ` Change here for Winchester , Ashuelot , Nashua , Keene , and stations on the Fitch_burg Road ; ' and just as he said ` Fitch ' the Mariner walked out of his mouth .
But while the Whale had been swimming , the Mariner , who was indeed a person of infinite-resource-and-sagacity , had taken his jack-knife and cut up the raft into a little square grating all running criss-cross , and he had tied it firm with his suspenders -LRB- now , you know why you were not to forget the suspenders ! -RRB-
, and he dragged that grating good and tight into the Whale 's throat , and there it stuck !
Then he recited the following Sloka , which , as you have not heard it , I will now proceed to relate -- By means of a grating I have stopped your ating .
For the Mariner he was also an Hi-ber-ni-an .
And he stepped out on the shingle , and went home to his mother , who had given him leave to trail his toes in the water ; and he married and lived happily ever afterward .
So did the Whale .
But from that day on , the grating in his throat , which he could neither cough up nor swallow down , prevented him eating anything except very , very small fish ; and that is the reason why whales nowadays never eat men or boys or little girls .
The small ` Stute Fish went and hid himself in the mud under the Door-sills of the Equator .
He was afraid that the Whale might be angry with him .
The Sailor took the jack-knife home .
He was wearing the blue canvas breeches when he walked out on the shingle .
The suspenders were left behind , you see , to tie the grating with ; and that is the end of that tale .
WHEN the cabin port-holes are dark and green Because of the seas outside ; When the ship goes wop -LRB- with a wiggle between -RRB- And the steward falls into the soup-tureen , And the trunks begin to slide ; When Nursey lies on the floor in a heap , And Mummy tells you to let her sleep , And you are n't waked or washed or dressed , Why , then you will know -LRB- if you have n't guessed -RRB- You 're ` Fifty North and Forty West ! '
HOW THE CAMEL GOT HIS HUMP NOW this is the next tale , and it tells how the Camel got his big hump .
In the beginning of years , when the world was so new and all , and the Animals were just beginning to work for Man , there was a Camel , and he lived in the middle of a Howling Desert because he did not want to work ; and besides , he was a Howler himself .
So he ate sticks and thorns and tamarisks and milkweed and prickles , most ` scruciating idle ; and when anybody spoke to him he said ` Humph ! '
Just ` Humph ! '
and no more .
Presently the Horse came to him on Monday morning , with a saddle on his back and a bit in his mouth , and said , ` Camel , O Camel , come out and trot like the rest of us . '
` Humph ! '
said the Camel ; and the Horse went away and told the Man .
Presently the Dog came to him , with a stick in his mouth , and said , ` Camel , O Camel , come and fetch and carry like the rest of us . '
` Humph ! '
said the Camel ; and the Dog went away and told the Man .
Presently the Ox came to him , with the yoke on his neck and said , ` Camel , O Camel , come and plough like the rest of us . '
` Humph ! '
said the Camel ; and the Ox went away and told the Man .
At the end of the day the Man called the Horse and the Dog and the Ox together , and said , ` Three , O Three , I 'm very sorry for you -LRB- with the world so new-and-all -RRB- ; but that Humph-thing in the Desert ca n't work , or he would have been here by now , so I am going to leave him alone , and you must work double-time to make up for it . '
That made the Three very angry -LRB- with the world so new-and-all -RRB- , and they held a palaver , and an indaba , and a punchayet , and a pow-wow on the edge of the Desert ; and the Camel came chewing on milkweed most ` scruciating idle , and laughed at them .
Then he said ` Humph ! '
and went away again .
Presently there came along the Djinn in charge of All Deserts , rolling in a cloud of dust -LRB- Djinns always travel that way because it is Magic -RRB- , and he stopped to palaver and pow-pow with the Three .
` Djinn of All Deserts , ' said the Horse , ` is it right for any one to be idle , with the world so new-and-all ? '
` Certainly not , ' said the Djinn .
` Well , ' said the Horse , ` there 's a thing in the middle of your Howling Desert -LRB- and he 's a Howler himself -RRB- with a long neck and long legs , and he has n't done a stroke of work since Monday morning .
He wo n't trot . '
` Whew ! '
said the Djinn , whistling , ` that 's my Camel , for all the gold in Arabia !
What does he say about it ? '
` He says `` Humph ! '' '
said the Dog ; ` and he wo n't fetch and carry . '
` Does he say anything else ? '
` Only `` Humph ! ''
; and he wo n't plough , ' said the Ox .
` Very good , ' said the Djinn .
` I 'll humph him if you will kindly wait a minute . '
The Djinn rolled himself up in his dust-cloak , and took a bearing across the desert , and found the Camel most ` scruciatingly idle , looking at his own reflection in a pool of water .
` My long and bubbling friend , ' said the Djinn , ` what 's this I hear of your doing no work , with the world so new-and-all ? '
` Humph ! '
said the Camel .
The Djinn sat down , with his chin in his hand , and began to think a Great Magic , while the Camel looked at his own reflection in the pool of water .
` You 've given the Three extra work ever since Monday morning , all on account of your ` scruciating idleness , ' said the Djinn ; and he went on thinking Magics , with his chin in his hand .
` Humph ! '
said the Camel . '
I should n't say that again if I were you , ' said the Djinn ; you might say it once too often .
Bubbles , I want you to work . '
And the Camel said ` Humph ! '
again ; but no sooner had he said it than he saw his back , that he was so proud of , puffing up and puffing up into a great big lolloping humph .
` Do you see that ? '
said the Djinn .
` That 's your very own humph that you 've brought upon your very own self by not working .
To-day is Thursday , and you 've done no work since Monday , when the work began .
Now you are going to work . '
` How can I , ' said the Camel , ` with this humph on my back ? '
` That 's made a-purpose , ' said the Djinn , ` all because you missed those three days .
You will be able to work now for three days without eating , because you can live on your humph ; and do n't you ever say I never did anything for you .
Come out of the Desert and go to the Three , and behave .
Humph yourself ! '
And the Camel humphed himself , humph and all , and went away to join the Three .
And from that day to this the Camel always wears a humph -LRB- we call it ` hump ' now , not to hurt his feelings -RRB- ; but he has never yet caught up with the three days that he missed at the beginning of the world , and he has never yet learned how to behave .
THE Camel 's hump is an ugly lump Which well you may see at the Zoo ; But uglier yet is the hump we get From having too little to do .
Kiddies and grown-ups too-oo-oo , If we have n't enough to do-oo-oo , We get the hump -- Cameelious hump -- The hump that is black and blue !
We climb out of bed with a frouzly head And a snarly-yarly voice .
We shiver and scowl and we grunt and we growl At our bath and our boots and our toys ; And there ought to be a corner for me -LRB- And I know there is one for you -RRB- When we get the hump -- Cameelious hump -- The hump that is black and blue !
The cure for this ill is not to sit still , Or frowst with a book by the fire ; But to take a large hoe and a shovel also , And dig till you gently perspire ; And then you will find that the sun and the wind .
And the Djinn of the Garden too , Have lifted the hump -- The horrible hump -- The hump that is black and blue !
I get it as well as you-oo-oo -- If I have n't enough to do-oo-oo -- We all get hump -- Cameelious hump -- Kiddies and grown-ups too !
HOW THE RHINOCEROS GOT HIS SKIN ONCE upon a time , on an uninhabited island on the shores of the Red Sea , there lived a Parsee from whose hat the rays of the sun were reflected in more-than-oriental splendour .
And the Parsee lived by the Red Sea with nothing but his hat and his knife and a cooking-stove of the kind that you must particularly never touch .
And one day he took flour and water and currants and plums and sugar and things , and made himself one cake which was two feet across and three feet thick .
It was indeed a Superior Comestible -LRB- that 's magic -RRB- , and he put it on stove because he was allowed to cook on the stove , and he baked it and he baked it till it was all done brown and smelt most sentimental .
But just as he was going to eat it there came down to the beach from the Altogether Uninhabited Interior one Rhinoceros with a horn on his nose , two piggy eyes , and few manners .
In those days the Rhinoceros 's skin fitted him quite tight .
There were no wrinkles in it anywhere .
He looked exactly like a Noah 's Ark Rhinoceros , but of course much bigger .
All the same , he had no manners then , and he has no manners now , and he never will have any manners .
He said , ` How ! '
and the Parsee left that cake and climbed to the top of a palm tree with nothing on but his hat , from which the rays of the sun were always reflected in more-than-oriental splendour .
And the Rhinoceros upset the oil-stove with his nose , and the cake rolled on the sand , and he spiked that cake on the horn of his nose , and he ate it , and he went away , waving his tail , to the desolate and Exclusively Uninhabited Interior which abuts on the islands of Mazanderan , Socotra , and Promontories of the Larger Equinox .
Then the Parsee came down from his palm-tree and put the stove on its legs and recited the following Sloka , which , as you have not heard , I will now proceed to relate : -- Them that takes cakes Which the Parsee-man bakes Makes dreadful mistakes .
And there was a great deal more in that than you would think .
Because , five weeks later , there was a heat wave in the Red Sea , and everybody took off all the clothes they had .
The Parsee took off his hat ; but the Rhinoceros took off his skin and carried it over his shoulder as he came down to the beach to bathe .
In those days it buttoned underneath with three buttons and looked like a waterproof .
He said nothing whatever about the Parsee 's cake , because he had eaten it all ; and he never had any manners , then , since , or henceforward .
He waddled straight into the water and blew bubbles through his nose , leaving his skin on the beach .
Presently the Parsee came by and found the skin , and he smiled one smile that ran all round his face two times .
Then he danced three times round the skin and rubbed his hands .
Then he went to his camp and filled his hat with cake-crumbs , for the Parsee never ate anything but cake , and never swept out his camp .
He took that skin , and he shook that skin , and he scrubbed that skin , and he rubbed that skin just as full of old , dry , stale , tickly cake-crumbs and some burned currants as ever it could possibly hold .
Then he climbed to the top of his palm-tree and waited for the Rhinoceros to come out of the water and put it on .
And the Rhinoceros did .
He buttoned it up with the three buttons , and it tickled like cake crumbs in bed .
Then he wanted to scratch , but that made it worse ; and then he lay down on the sands and rolled and rolled and rolled , and every time he rolled the cake crumbs tickled him worse and worse and worse .
Then he ran to the palm-tree and rubbed and rubbed and rubbed himself against it .
He rubbed so much and so hard that he rubbed his skin into a great fold over his shoulders , and another fold underneath , where the buttons used to be -LRB- but he rubbed the buttons off -RRB- , and he rubbed some more folds over his legs .
And it spoiled his temper , but it did n't make the least difference to the cake-crumbs .
They were inside his skin and they tickled .
So he went home , very angry indeed and horribly scratchy ; and from that day to this every rhinoceros has great folds in his skin and a very bad temper , all on account of the cake-crumbs inside .
But the Parsee came down from his palm-tree , wearing his hat , from which the rays of the sun were reflected in more-than-oriental splendour , packed up his cooking-stove , and went away in the direction of Orotavo , Amygdala , the Upland Meadows of Anantarivo , and the Marshes of Sonaput .
THIS Uninhabited Island Is off Cape Gardafui , By the Beaches of Socotra And the Pink Arabian Sea : But it 's hot -- too hot from Suez For the likes of you and me Ever to go In a P. and O. And call on the Cake-Parsee !
HOW THE LEOPARD GOT HIS SPOTS IN the days when everybody started fair , Best Beloved , the Leopard lived in a place called the High Veldt .
` Member it was n't the Low Veldt , or the Bush Veldt , or the Sour Veldt , but the ` sclusively bare , hot , shiny High Veldt , where there was sand and sandy-coloured rock and ` sclusively tufts of sandy-yellowish grass .
The Giraffe and the Zebra and the Eland and the Koodoo and the Hartebeest lived there ; and they were ` sclusively sandy-yellow-brownish all over ; but the Leopard , he was the ` sclusivest sandiest-yellowish-brownest of them all -- a greyish-yellowish catty-shaped kind of beast , and he matched the ` sclusively yellowish-greyish-brownish colour of the High Veldt to one hair .
This was very bad for the Giraffe and the Zebra and the rest of them ; for he would lie down by a ` sclusively yellowish-greyish-brownish stone or clump of grass , and when the Giraffe or the Zebra or the Eland or the Koodoo or the Bush-Buck or the Bonte-Buck came by he would surprise them out of their jumpsome lives .
He would indeed !
And , also , there was an Ethiopian with bows and arrows -LRB- a ` sclusively greyish-brownish-yellowish man he was then -RRB- , who lived on the High Veldt with the Leopard ; and the two used to hunt together -- the Ethiopian with his bows and arrows , and the Leopard ` sclusively with his teeth and claws -- till the Giraffe and the Eland and the Koodoo and the Quagga and all the rest of them did n't know which way to jump , Best Beloved .
They did n't indeed !
After a long time -- things lived for ever so long in those days -- they learned to avoid anything that looked like a Leopard or an Ethiopian ; and bit by bit -- the Giraffe began it , because his legs were the longest -- they went away from the High Veldt .
They scuttled for days and days and days till they came to a great forest , ` sclusively full of trees and bushes and stripy , speckly , patchy-blatchy shadows , and there they hid : and after another long time , what with standing half in the shade and half out of it , and what with the slippery-slidy shadows of the trees falling on them , the Giraffe grew blotchy , and the Zebra grew stripy , and the Eland and the Koodoo grew darker , with little wavy grey lines on their backs like bark on a tree trunk ; and so , though you could hear them and smell them , you could very seldom see them , and then only when you knew precisely where to look .
They had a beautiful time in the ` sclusively speckly-spickly shadows of the forest , while the Leopard and the Ethiopian ran about over the ` sclusively greyish-yellowish-reddish High Veldt outside , wondering where all their breakfasts and their dinners and their teas had gone .
At last they were so hungry that they ate rats and beetles and rock-rabbits , the Leopard and the Ethiopian , and then they had the Big Tummy-ache , both together ; and then they met Baviaan -- the dog-headed , barking Baboon , who is Quite the Wisest Animal in All South Africa .
Said Leopard to Baviaan -LRB- and it was a very hot day -RRB- , ` Where has all the game gone ? '
And Baviaan winked .
He knew .
Said the Ethiopian to Baviaan , ` Can you tell me the present habitat of the aboriginal Fauna ? '
-LRB- That meant just the same thing , but the Ethiopian always used long words .
He was a grown-up . -RRB-
And Baviaan winked .
He knew .
Then said Baviaan , ` The game has gone into other spots ; and my advice to you , Leopard , is to go into other spots as soon as you can . '
And the Ethiopian said , ` That is all very fine , but I wish to know whither the aboriginal Fauna has migrated . '
Then said Baviaan , ` The aboriginal Fauna has joined the aboriginal Flora because it was high time for a change ; and my advice to you , Ethiopian , is to change as soon as you can . '
That puzzled the Leopard and the Ethiopian , but they set off to look for the aboriginal Flora , and presently , after ever so many days , they saw a great , high , tall forest full of tree trunks all ` sclusively speckled and sprottled and spottled , dotted and splashed and slashed and hatched and cross-hatched with shadows .
-LRB- Say that quickly aloud , and you will see how very shadowy the forest must have been . -RRB-
` What is this , ' said the Leopard , ` that is so ` sclusively dark , and yet so full of little pieces of light ? ' '
I do n't know , said the Ethiopian , ` but it ought to be the aboriginal Flora .
I can smell Giraffe , and I can hear Giraffe , but I ca n't see Giraffe . '
` That 's curious , ' said the Leopard . '
I suppose it is because we have just come in out of the sunshine .
I can smell Zebra , and I can hear Zebra , but I ca n't see Zebra . '
` Wait a bit , said the Ethiopian .
` It 's a long time since we 've hunted 'em .
Perhaps we 've forgotten what they were like . '
` Fiddle ! '
said the Leopard . '
I remember them perfectly on the High Veldt , especially their marrow-bones .
Giraffe is about seventeen feet high , of a ` sclusively fulvous golden-yellow from head to heel ; and Zebra is about four and a half feet high , of a ` sclusively grey-fawn colour from head to heel . '
` Umm , said the Ethiopian , looking into the speckly-spickly shadows of the aboriginal Flora-forest .
` Then they ought to show up in this dark place like ripe bananas in a smokehouse . '
But they did n't .
The Leopard and the Ethiopian hunted all day ; and though they could smell them and hear them , they never saw one of them .
` For goodness ' sake , ' said the Leopard at tea-time , ` let us wait till it gets dark .
This daylight hunting is a perfect scandal . '
So they waited till dark , and then the Leopard heard something breathing sniffily in the starlight that fell all stripy through the branches , and he jumped at the noise , and it smelt like Zebra , and it felt like Zebra , and when he knocked it down it kicked like Zebra , but he could n't see it .
So he said , ` Be quiet , O you person without any form .
I am going to sit on your head till morning , because there is something about you that I do n't understand . '
Presently he heard a grunt and a crash and a scramble , and the Ethiopian called out , ` I 've caught a thing that I ca n't see .
It smells like Giraffe , and it kicks like Giraffe , but it has n't any form . '
` Do n't you trust it , ' said the Leopard .
` Sit on its head till the morning -- same as me .
They have n't any form -- any of 'em . '
So they sat down on them hard till bright morning-time , and then Leopard said , ` What have you at your end of the table , Brother ? '
The Ethiopian scratched his head and said , ` It ought to be ` sclusively a rich fulvous orange-tawny from head to heel , and it ought to be Giraffe ; but it is covered all over with chestnut blotches .
What have you at your end of the table , Brother ? '
And the Leopard scratched his head and said , ` It ought to be ` sclusively a delicate greyish-fawn , and it ought to be Zebra ; but it is covered all over with black and purple stripes .
What in the world have you been doing to yourself , Zebra ?
Do n't you know that if you were on the High Veldt I could see you ten miles off ?
You have n't any form . '
` Yes , ' said the Zebra , ` but this is n't the High Veldt .
Ca n't you see ? ' '
I can now , ' said the Leopard .
` But I could n't all yesterday .
How is it done ? '
` Let us up , ' said the Zebra , ` and we will show you .
They let the Zebra and the Giraffe get up ; and Zebra moved away to some little thorn-bushes where the sunlight fell all stripy , and Giraffe moved off to some tallish trees where the shadows fell all blotchy .
` Now watch , ' said the Zebra and the Giraffe .
` This is the way it 's done .
One -- two -- three !
And where 's your breakfast ? '
Leopard stared , and Ethiopian stared , but all they could see were stripy shadows and blotched shadows in the forest , but never a sign of Zebra and Giraffe .
They had just walked off and hidden themselves in the shadowy forest .
` Hi !
Hi ! '
said the Ethiopian .
` That 's a trick worth learning .
Take a lesson by it , Leopard .
You show up in this dark place like a bar of soap in a coal-scuttle . '
` Ho !
Ho ! '
said the Leopard .
` Would it surprise you very much to know that you show up in this dark place like a mustard-plaster on a sack of coals ? '
` Well , calling names wo n't catch dinner , said the Ethiopian .
` The long and the little of it is that we do n't match our backgrounds .
I 'm going to take Baviaan 's advice .
He told me I ought to change ; and as I 've nothing to change except my skin I 'm going to change that . '
` What to ? '
said the Leopard , tremendously excited .
` To a nice working blackish-brownish colour , with a little purple in it , and touches of slaty-blue .
It will be the very thing for hiding in hollows and behind trees . '
So he changed his skin then and there , and the Leopard was more excited than ever ; he had never seen a man change his skin before .
` But what about me ? '
he said , when the Ethiopian had worked his last little finger into his fine new black skin .
` You take Baviaan 's advice too .
He told you to go into spots . '
` So I did , ' said the Leopard .
I went into other spots as fast as I could .
I went into this spot with you , and a lot of good it has done me . '
` Oh , ' said the Ethiopian , ` Baviaan did n't mean spots in South Africa .
He meant spots on your skin . '
` What 's the use of that ? '
said the Leopard .
` Think of Giraffe , ' said the Ethiopian .
` Or if you prefer stripes , think of Zebra .
They find their spots and stripes give them per-feet satisfaction . '
` Umm , ' said the Leopard . '
I would n't look like Zebra -- not for ever so . '
` Well , make up your mind , ' said the Ethiopian , ` because I 'd hate to go hunting without you , but I must if you insist on looking like a sun-flower against a tarred fence . '
` I 'll take spots , then , ' said the Leopard ; ` but do n't make 'em too vulgar-big .
I would n't look like Giraffe -- not for ever so . '
` I 'll make 'em with the tips of my fingers , ' said the Ethiopian .
` There 's plenty of black left on my skin still .
Stand over ! '
Then the Ethiopian put his five fingers close together -LRB- there was plenty of black left on his new skin still -RRB- and pressed them all over the Leopard , and wherever the five fingers touched they left five little black marks , all close together .
You can see them on any Leopard 's skin you like , Best Beloved .
Sometimes the fingers slipped and the marks got a little blurred ; but if you look closely at any Leopard now you will see that there are always five spots -- off five fat black finger-tips .
` Now you are a beauty ! '
said the Ethiopian .
` You can lie out on the bare ground and look like a heap of pebbles .
You can lie out on the naked rocks and look like a piece of pudding-stone .
You can lie out on a leafy branch and look like sunshine sifting through the leaves ; and you can lie right across the centre of a path and look like nothing in particular .
Think of that and purr ! '
` But if I 'm all this , ' said the Leopard , ` why did n't you go spotty too ? '
` Oh , plain black 's best for a nigger , ' said the Ethiopian .
` Now come along and we 'll see if we ca n't get even with Mr. One-Two-Three Where 's your Breakfast ! '
So they went away and lived happily ever afterward , Best Beloved .
That is all .
Oh , now and then you will hear grown-ups say , ` Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the Leopard his spots ? '
I do n't think even grown-ups would keep on saying such a silly thing if the Leopard and the Ethiopian had n't done it once -- do you ?
But they will never do it again , Best Beloved .
They are quite contented as they are .
I AM the Most Wise Baviaan , saying in most wise tones , ` Let us melt into the landscape -- just us two by our lones . '
People have come -- in a carriage -- calling .
But Mummy is there ... Yes , I can go if you take me -- Nurse says she do n't care .
Let 's go up to the pig-sties and sit on the farmyard rails !
Let 's say things to the bunnies , and watch 'em skitter their tails !
Let 's -- oh , anything , daddy , so long as it 's you and me , And going truly exploring , and not being in till tea !
Here 's your boots -LRB- I 've brought 'em -RRB- , and here 's your cap and stick , And here 's your pipe and tobacco .
Oh , come along out of it -- quick .
THE ELEPHANT 'S CHILD IN the High and Far-Off Times the Elephant , O Best Beloved , had no trunk .
He had only a blackish , bulgy nose , as big as a boot , that he could wriggle about from side to side ; but he could n't pick up things with it .
But there was one Elephant -- a new Elephant -- an Elephant 's Child -- who was full of ` satiable curtiosity , and that means he asked ever so many questions .
And he lived in Africa , and he filled all Africa with his ` satiable curtiosities .
He asked his tall aunt , the Ostrich , why her tail-feathers grew just so , and his tall aunt the Ostrich spanked him with her hard , hard claw .
He asked his tall uncle , the Giraffe , what made his skin spotty , and his tall uncle , the Giraffe , spanked him with his hard , hard hoof .
And still he was full of ` satiable curtiosity !
He asked his broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , why her eyes were red , and his broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , spanked him with her broad , broad hoof ; and he asked his hairy uncle , the Baboon , why melons tasted just so , and his hairy uncle , the Baboon , spanked him with his hairy , hairy paw .
And still he was full of ` satiable curtiosity !
He asked questions about everything that he saw , or heard , or felt , or smelt , or touched , and all his uncles and his aunts spanked him .
And still he was full of ` satiable curtiosity !
One fine morning in the middle of the Precession of the Equinoxes this ` satiable Elephant 's Child asked a new fine question that he had never asked before .
He asked , ` What does the Crocodile have for dinner ? '
Then everybody said , ` Hush ! '
in a loud and dretful tone , and they spanked him immediately and directly , without stopping , for a long time .
By and by , when that was finished , he came upon Kolokolo Bird sitting in the middle of a wait-a-bit thorn-bush , and he said , ` My father has spanked me , and my mother has spanked me ; all my aunts and uncles have spanked me for my ` satiable curtiosity ; and still I want to know what the Crocodile has for dinner ! '
Then Kolokolo Bird said , with a mournful cry , ` Go to the banks of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , and find out . '
That very next morning , when there was nothing left of the Equinoxes , because the Precession had preceded according to precedent , this ` satiable Elephant 's Child took a hundred pounds of bananas -LRB- the little short red kind -RRB- , and a hundred pounds of sugar-cane -LRB- the long purple kind -RRB- , and seventeen melons -LRB- the greeny-crackly kind -RRB- , and said to all his dear families , ` Goodbye .
I am going to the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , to find out what the Crocodile has for dinner . '
And they all spanked him once more for luck , though he asked them most politely to stop .
Then he went away , a little warm , but not at all astonished , eating melons , and throwing the rind about , because he could not pick it up .
He went from Graham 's Town to Kimberley , and from Kimberley to Khama 's Country , and from Khama 's Country he went east by north , eating melons all the time , till at last he came to the banks of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , precisely as Kolokolo Bird had said .
Now you must know and understand , O Best Beloved , that till that very week , and day , and hour , and minute , this ` satiable Elephant 's Child had never seen a Crocodile , and did not know what one was like .
It was all his ` satiable curtiosity .
The first thing that he found was a Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake curled round a rock . ''
Scuse me , ' said the Elephant 's Child most politely , ` but have you seen such a thing as a Crocodile in these promiscuous parts ? '
` Have I seen a Crocodile ? '
said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , in a voice of dretful scorn .
` What will you ask me next ? ' ''
Scuse me , ' said the Elephant 's Child , ` but could you kindly tell me what he has for dinner ? '
Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake uncoiled himself very quickly from the rock , and spanked the Elephant 's Child with his scalesome , flailsome tail .
` That is odd , ' said the Elephant 's Child , ` because my father and my mother , and my uncle and my aunt , not to mention my other aunt , the Hippopotamus , and my other uncle , the Baboon , have all spanked me for my ` satiable curtiosity -- and I suppose this is the same thing .
So he said good-bye very politely to the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , and helped to coil him up on the rock again , and went on , a little warm , but not at all astonished , eating melons , and throwing the rind about , because he could not pick it up , till he trod on what he thought was a log of wood at the very edge of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees .
But it was really the Crocodile , O Best Beloved , and the Crocodile winked one eye -- like this ! ''
Scuse me , ' said the Elephant 's Child most politely , ` but do you happen to have seen a Crocodile in these promiscuous parts ? '
Then the Crocodile winked the other eye , and lifted half his tail out of the mud ; and the Elephant 's Child stepped back most politely , because he did not wish to be spanked again .
` Come hither , Little One , ' said the Crocodile .
` Why do you ask such things ? ' ''
Scuse me , ' said the Elephant 's Child most politely , ` but my father has spanked me , my mother has spanked me , not to mention my tall aunt , the Ostrich , and my tall uncle , the Giraffe , who can kick ever so hard , as well as my broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , and my hairy uncle , the Baboon , and including the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , with the scalesome , flailsome tail , just up the bank , who spanks harder than any of them ; and so , if it 's quite all the same to you , I do n't want to be spanked any more . '
` Come hither , Little One , ' said the Crocodile , ` for I am the Crocodile , ' and he wept crocodile-tears to show it was quite true .
Then the Elephant 's Child grew all breathless , and panted , and kneeled down on the bank and said , ` You are the very person I have been looking for all these long days .
Will you please tell me what you have for dinner ? '
` Come hither , Little One , ' said the Crocodile , ` and I 'll whisper . '
Then the Elephant 's Child put his head down close to the Crocodile 's musky , tusky mouth , and the Crocodile caught him by his little nose , which up to that very week , day , hour , and minute , had been no bigger than a boot , though much more useful . '
I think , said the Crocodile -- and he said it between his teeth , like this -- ' I think to-day I will begin with Elephant 's Child ! '
At this , O Best Beloved , the Elephant 's Child was much annoyed , and he said , speaking through his nose , like this , ` Led go !
You are hurtig be ! '
Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake scuffled down from the bank and said , ` My young friend , if you do not now , immediately and instantly , pull as hard as ever you can , it is my opinion that your acquaintance in the large-pattern leather ulster ' -LRB- and by this he meant the Crocodile -RRB- ` will jerk you into yonder limpid stream before you can say Jack Robinson . '
This is the way Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snakes always talk .
Then the Elephant 's Child sat back on his little haunches , and pulled , and pulled , and pulled , and his nose began to stretch .
And the Crocodile floundered into the water , making it all creamy with great sweeps of his tail , and he pulled , and pulled , and pulled .
And the Elephant 's Child 's nose kept on stretching ; and the Elephant 's Child spread all his little four legs and pulled , and pulled , and pulled , and his nose kept on stretching ; and the Crocodile threshed his tail like an oar , and he pulled , and pulled , and pulled , and at each pull the Elephant 's Child 's nose grew longer and longer -- and it hurt him hijjus !
Then the Elephant 's Child felt his legs slipping , and he said through his nose , which was now nearly five feet long , ` This is too butch for be ! '
Then the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake came down from the bank , and knotted himself in a double-clove-hitch round the Elephant 's Child 's hind legs , and said , ` Rash and inexperienced traveller , we will now seriously devote ourselves to a little high tension , because if we do not , it is my impression that yonder self-propelling man-of-war with the armour-plated upper deck ' -LRB- and by this , O Best Beloved , he meant the Crocodile -RRB- , ` will permanently vitiate your future career .
That is the way all Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snakes always talk .
So he pulled , and the Elephant 's Child pulled , and the Crocodile pulled ; but the Elephant 's Child and the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake pulled hardest ; and at last the Crocodile let go of the Elephant 's Child 's nose with a plop that you could hear all up and down the Limpopo .
Then the Elephant 's Child sat down most hard and sudden ; but first he was careful to say ` Thank you ' to the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake ; and next he was kind to his poor pulled nose , and wrapped it all up in cool banana leaves , and hung it in the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo to cool .
` What are you doing that for ? '
said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake . ''
Scuse me , ' said the Elephant 's Child , ` but my nose is badly out of shape , and I am waiting for it to shrink .
` Then you will have to wait a long time , said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` Some people do not know what is good for them . '
The Elephant 's Child sat there for three days waiting for his nose to shrink .
But it never grew any shorter , and , besides , it made him squint .
For , O Best Beloved , you will see and understand that the Crocodile had pulled it out into a really truly trunk same as all Elephants have to-day .
At the end of the third day a fly came and stung him on the shoulder , and before he knew what he was doing he lifted up his trunk and hit that fly dead with the end of it . ''
Vantage number one ! '
said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` You could n't have done that with a mere-smear nose .
Try and eat a little now . '
Before he thought what he was doing the Elephant 's Child put out his trunk and plucked a large bundle of grass , dusted it clean against his fore-legs , and stuffed it into his own mouth .
` Vantage number two ! '
said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` You could n't have done that with a mear-smear nose .
Do n't you think the sun is very hot here ? '
` It is , ' said the Elephant 's Child , and before he thought what he was doing he schlooped up a schloop of mud from the banks of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo , and slapped it on his head , where it made a cool schloopy-sloshy mud-cap all trickly behind his ears .
` Vantage number three ! '
said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake .
` You could n't have done that with a mere-smear nose .
Now how do you feel about being spanked again ? ' ''
Scuse me , ' said the Elephant 's Child , ` but I should not like it at all . '
` How would you like to spank somebody ? '
said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake . '
I should like it very much indeed , ' said the Elephant 's Child .
` Well , ' said the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake , ` you will find that new nose of yours very useful to spank people with . '
` Thank you , ' said the Elephant 's Child , ` I 'll remember that ; and now I think I 'll go home to all my dear families and try . '
So the Elephant 's Child went home across Africa frisking and whisking his trunk .
When he wanted fruit to eat he pulled fruit down from a tree , instead of waiting for it to fall as he used to do .
When he wanted grass he plucked grass up from the ground , instead of going on his knees as he used to do .
When the flies bit him he broke off the branch of a tree and used it as fly-whisk ; and he made himself a new , cool , slushy-squshy mud-cap whenever the sun was hot .
When he felt lonely walking through Africa he sang to himself down his trunk , and the noise was louder than several brass bands .
He went especially out of his way to find a broad Hippopotamus -LRB- she was no relation of his -RRB- , and he spanked her very hard , to make sure that the Bi-Coloured-Python-Rock-Snake had spoken the truth about his new trunk .
The rest of the time he picked up the melon rinds that he had dropped on his way to the Limpopo -- for he was a Tidy Pachyderm .
One dark evening he came back to all his dear families , and he coiled up his trunk and said , ` How do you do ? '
They were very glad to see him , and immediately said , ` Come here and be spanked for your ` satiable curtiosity . '
` Pooh , ' said the Elephant 's Child . '
I do n't think you peoples know anything about spanking ; but I do , and I 'll show you . '
Then he uncurled his trunk and knocked two of his dear brothers head over heels . '
O Bananas ! '
said they , ` where did you learn that trick , and what have you done to your nose ? ' '
I got a new one from the Crocodile on the banks of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , ' said the Elephant 's Child . '
I asked him what he had for dinner , and he gave me this to keep . '
` It looks very ugly , ' said his hairy uncle , the Baboon .
` It does , ' said the Elephant 's Child .
` But it 's very useful , ' and he picked up his hairy uncle , the Baboon , by one hairy leg , and hove him into a hornet 's nest .
Then that bad Elephant 's Child spanked all his dear families for a long time , till they were very warm and greatly astonished .
He pulled out his tall Ostrich aunt 's tail-feathers ; and he caught his tall uncle , the Giraffe , by the hind-leg , and dragged him through a thorn-bush ; and he shouted at his broad aunt , the Hippopotamus , and blew bubbles into her ear when she was sleeping in the water after meals ; but he never let any one touch Kolokolo Bird .
At last things grew so exciting that his dear families went off one by one in a hurry to the banks of the great grey-green , greasy Limpopo River , all set about with fever-trees , to borrow new noses from the Crocodile .
When they came back nobody spanked anybody any more ; and ever since that day , O Best Beloved , all the Elephants you will ever see , besides all those that you wo n't , have trunks precisely like the trunk of the ` satiable Elephant 's Child .
I Keep six honest serving-men : -LRB- They taught me all I knew -RRB- Their names are What and Where and When And How and Why and Who .
I send them over land and sea , I send them east and west ; But after they have worked for me , I give them all a rest .
I let them rest from nine till five .
For I am busy then , As well as breakfast , lunch , and tea , For they are hungry men : But different folk have different views : I know a person small -- She keeps ten million serving-men , Who get no rest at all !
She sends 'em abroad on her own affairs , From the second she opens her eyes -- One million Hows , two million Wheres , And seven million Whys !
THE SING-SONG OF OLD MAN KANGAROO NOT always was the Kangaroo as now we do behold him , but a Different Animal with four short legs .
He was grey and he was woolly , and his pride was inordinate : he danced on an outcrop in the middle of Australia , and he went to the Little God Nqa .
He went to Nqa at six before breakfast , saying , ` Make me different from all other animals by five this afternoon . '
Up jumped Nqa from his seat on the sandflat and shouted , ` Go away ! '
He was grey and he was woolly , and his pride was inordinate : he danced on a rock-ledge in the middle of Australia , and he went to the Middle God Nquing .
He went to Nquing at eight after breakfast , saying , ` Make me different from all other animals ; make me , also , wonderfully popular by five this afternoon . '
Up jumped Nquing from his burrow in the spinifex and shouted , ` Go away ! '
He was grey and he was woolly , and his pride was inordinate : he danced on a sandbank in the middle of Australia , and he went to the Big God Nqong .
He went to Nqong at ten before dinner-time , saying , ` Make me different from all other animals ; make me popular and wonderfully run after by five this afternoon . '
Up jumped Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan and shouted , ` Yes , I will ! '
Nqong called Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- always hungry , dusty in the sunshine , and showed him Kangaroo .
Nqong said , ` Dingo !
Wake up , Dingo !
Do you see that gentleman dancing on an ashpit ?
He wants to be popular and very truly run after .
Dingo , make him SO ! '
Up jumped Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- and said , ` What , that cat-rabbit ? '
Off ran Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- always hungry , grinning like a coal-scuttle , -- ran after Kangaroo .
Off went the proud Kangaroo on his four little legs like a bunny .
This , O Beloved of mine , ends the first part of the tale !
He ran through the desert ; he ran through the mountains ; he ran through the salt-pans ; he ran through the reed-beds ; he ran through the blue gums ; he ran through the spinifex ; he ran till his front legs ached .
He had to !
Still ran Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- always hungry , grinning like a rat-trap , never getting nearer , never getting farther , -- ran after Kangaroo .
He had to !
Still ran Kangaroo -- Old Man Kangaroo .
He ran through the ti-trees ; he ran through the mulga ; he ran through the long grass ; he ran through the short grass ; he ran through the Tropics of Capricorn and Cancer ; he ran till his hind legs ached .
He had to !
Still ran Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- hungrier and hungrier , grinning like a horse-collar , never getting nearer , never getting farther ; and they came to the Wollgong River .
Now , there was n't any bridge , and there was n't any ferry-boat , and Kangaroo did n't know how to get over ; so he stood on his legs and hopped .
He had to !
He hopped through the Flinders ; he hopped through the Cinders ; he hopped through the deserts in the middle of Australia .
He hopped like a Kangaroo .
First he hopped one yard ; then he hopped three yards ; then he hopped five yards ; his legs growing stronger ; his legs growing longer .
He had n't any time for rest or refreshment , and he wanted them very much .
Still ran Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo -- very much bewildered , very much hungry , and wondering what in the world or out of it made Old Man Kangaroo hop .
For he hopped like a cricket ; like a pea in a saucepan ; or a new rubber ball on a nursery floor .
He had to !
He tucked up his front legs ; he hopped on his hind legs ; he stuck out his tail for a balance-weight behind him ; and he hopped through the Darling Downs .
He had to !
Still ran Dingo -- Tired-Dog Dingo -- hungrier and hungrier , very much bewildered , and wondering when in the world or out of it would Old Man Kangaroo stop .
Then came Nqong from his bath in the salt-pans , and said , ` It 's five o'clock . '
Down sat Dingo -- Poor Dog Dingo -- always hungry , dusky in the sunshine ; hung out his tongue and howled .
Down sat Kangaroo -- Old Man Kangaroo -- stuck out his tail like a milking-stool behind him , and said , ` Thank goodness that 's finished ! '
Then said Nqong , who is always a gentleman , ` Why are n't you grateful to Yellow-Dog Dingo ?
Why do n't you thank him for all he has done for you ? '
Then said Kangaroo -- Tired Old Kangaroo -- He 's chased me out of the homes of my childhood ; he 's chased me out of my regular meal-times ; he 's altered my shape so I 'll never get it back ; and he 's played Old Scratch with my legs . '
Then said Nqong , ` Perhaps I 'm mistaken , but did n't you ask me to make you different from all other animals , as well as to make you very truly sought after ?
And now it is five o'clock . '
` Yes , ' said Kangaroo . '
I wish that I had n't .
I thought you would do it by charms and incantations , but this is a practical joke . '
` Joke ! '
said Nqong from his bath in the blue gums .
` Say that again and I 'll whistle up Dingo and run your hind legs off . '
` No , ' said the Kangaroo . '
I must apologise .
Legs are legs , and you need n't alter 'em so far as I am concerned .
I only meant to explain to Your Lordliness that I 've had nothing to eat since morning , and I 'm very empty indeed . '
` Yes , ' said Dingo -- Yellow-Dog Dingo , -- ' I am just in the same situation .
I 've made him different from all other animals ; but what may I have for my tea ? '
Then said Nqong from his bath in the salt-pan , ` Come and ask me about it tomorrow , because I 'm going to wash . '
So they were left in the middle of Australia , Old Man Kangaroo and Yellow-Dog Dingo , and each said , ` That 's your fault . '
THIS is the mouth-filling song Of the race that was run by a Boomer , Run in a single burst -- only event of its kind -- Started by big God Nqong from Warrigaborrigarooma , Old Man Kangaroo first : Yellow-Dog Dingo behind .
Kangaroo bounded away , His back-legs working like pistons -- Bounded from morning till dark , Twenty-five feet to a bound .
Yellow-Dog Dingo lay Like a yellow cloud in the distance -- Much too busy to bark .
My !
but they covered the ground !
Nobody knows where they went , Or followed the track that they flew in , For that Continent Had n't been given a name .
They ran thirty degrees , From Torres Straits to the Leeuwin -LRB- Look at the Atlas , please -RRB- , And they ran back as they came .
S'posing you could trot From Adelaide to the Pacific , For an afternoon 's run Half what these gentlemen did You would feel rather hot , But your legs would develop terrific -- Yes , my importunate son , You 'd be a Marvellous Kid !
THE BEGINNING OF THE ARMADILLOS THIS , O Best Beloved , is another story of the High and Far-Off Times .
In the very middle of those times was a Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog , and he lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon , eating shelly snails and things .
And he had a friend , a Slow-Solid Tortoise , who lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon , eating green lettuces and things .
And so that was all right , Best Beloved .
Do you see ?
But also , and at the same time , in those High and Far-Off Times , there was a Painted Jaguar , and he lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon too ; and he ate everything that he could catch .
When he could not catch deer or monkeys he would eat frogs and beetles ; and when he could not catch frogs and beetles he went to his Mother Jaguar , and she told him how to eat hedgehogs and tortoises .
She said to him ever so many times , graciously waving her tail , ` My son , when you find a Hedgehog you must drop him into the water and then he will uncoil , and when you catch a Tortoise you must scoop him out of his shell with your paw . '
And so that was all right , Best Beloved .
One beautiful night on the banks of the turbid Amazon , Painted Jaguar found Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog and Slow-Solid Tortoise sitting under the trunk of a fallen tree .
They could not run away , and so Stickly-Prickly curled himself up into a ball , because he was a Hedgehog , and Slow-Solid Tortoise drew in his head and feet into his shell as far as they would go , because he was a Tortoise ; and so that was all right , Best Beloved .
Do you see ?
` Now attend to me , ' said Painted Jaguar , ` because this is very important .
My mother said that when I meet a Hedgehog I am to drop him into the water and then he will uncoil , and when I meet a Tortoise I am to scoop him out of his shell with my paw .
Now which of you is Hedgehog and which is Tortoise ?
because , to save my spots , I ca n't tell . '
` Are you sure of what your Mummy told you ? '
said Stickly-Prickly Hedgehog .
` Are you quite sure ?
Perhaps she said that when you uncoil a Tortoise you must shell him out the water with a scoop , and when you paw a Hedgehog you must drop him on the shell . '
` Are you sure of what your Mummy told you ? '
said Slow-and-Solid Tortoise .
` Are you quite sure ?
Perhaps she said that when you water a Hedgehog you must drop him into your paw , and when you meet a Tortoise you must shell him till he uncoils . ' '
I do n't think it was at all like that , ' said Painted Jaguar , but he felt a little puzzled ; ` but , please , say it again more distinctly . '
` When you scoop water with your paw you uncoil it with a Hedgehog , ' said Stickly-Prickly .
` Remember that , because it 's important . '
` But , ' said the Tortoise , ` when you paw your meat you drop it into a Tortoise with a scoop .
Why ca n't you understand ? '
` You are making my spots ache , ' said Painted Jaguar ; ` and besides , I did n't want your advice at all .
I only wanted to know which of you is Hedgehog and which is Tortoise . ' '
I sha n't tell you , ' said Stickly-Prickly , ` but you can scoop me out of my shell if you like . '
` Aha ! '
said Painted Jaguar .
` Now I know you 're Tortoise .
You thought I would n't !
Now I will . '
Painted Jaguar darted out his paddy-paw just as Stickly-Prickly curled himself up , and of course Jaguar 's paddy-paw was just filled with prickles .
Worse than that , he knocked Stickly-Prickly away and away into the woods and the bushes , where it was too dark to find him .
Then he put his paddy-paw into his mouth , and of course the prickles hurt him worse than ever .
As soon as he could speak he said , ` Now I know he is n't Tortoise at all .
But ' -- and then he scratched his head with his un-prickly paw -- ` how do I know that this other is Tortoise ? '
` But I am Tortoise , ' said Slow-and-Solid .
Your mother was quite right .
She said that you were to scoop me out of my shell with your paw .
Begin . '
` You did n't say she said that a minute ago , said Painted Jaguar , sucking the prickles out of his paddy-paw .
` You said she said something quite different . '
` Well , suppose you say that I said that she said something quite different , I do n't see that it makes any difference ; because if she said what you said I said she said , it 's just the same as if I said what she said she said .
On the other hand , if you think she said that you were to uncoil me with a scoop , instead of pawing me into drops with a shell , I ca n't help that , can I ? '
` But you said you wanted to be scooped out of your shell with my paw , ' said Painted Jaguar .
` If you 'll think again you 'll find that I did n't say anything of the kind .
I said that your mother said that you were to scoop me out of my shell , ' said Slow-and-Solid .
` What will happen if I do ? '
said the Jaguar most sniffily and most cautious . '
I do n't know , because I 've never been scooped out of my shell before ; but I tell you truly , if you want to see me swim away you 've only got to drop me into the water . '
I do n't believe it , ' said Painted Jaguar .
` You 've mixed up all the things my mother told me to do with the things that you asked me whether I was sure that she did n't say , till I do n't know whether I 'm on my head or my painted tail ; and now you come and tell me something I can understand , and it makes me more mixy than before .
My mother told me that I was to drop one of you two into the water , and as you seem so anxious to be dropped I think you do n't want to be dropped .
So jump into the turbid Amazon and be quick about it . ' '
I warn you that your Mummy wo n't be pleased .
Do n't tell her I did n't tell you , ' said Slow-Solid .
` If you say another word about what my mother said -- ' the Jaguar answered , but he had not finished the sentence before Slow-and-Solid quietly dived into the turbid Amazon , swam under water for a long way , and came out on the bank where Stickly-Prickly was waiting for him .
` That was a very narrow escape , ' said Stickly-Prickly . '
I do n't rib Painted Jaguar .
What did you tell him that you were ? ' '
I told him truthfully that I was a truthful Tortoise , but he would n't believe it , and he made me jump into the river to see if I was , and I was , and he is surprised .
Now he 's gone to tell his Mummy .
Listen to him ! '
They could hear Painted Jaguar roaring up and down among the trees and the bushes by the side of the turbid Amazon , till his Mummy came .
` Son , son ! '
said his mother ever so many times , graciously waving her tail , ` what have you been doing that you should n't have done ? ' '
I tried to scoop something that said it wanted to be scooped out of its shell with my paw , and my paw is full of per-ickles , ' said Painted Jaguar .
` Son , son ! '
said his mother ever so many times , graciously waving her tail , ` by the prickles in your paddy-paw I see that that must have been a Hedgehog .
You should have dropped him into the water . '
I did that to the other thing ; and he said he was a Tortoise , and I did n't believe him , and it was quite true , and he has dived under the turbid Amazon , and he wo n't come up again , and I have n't anything at all to eat , and I think we had better find lodgings somewhere else .
They are too clever on the turbid Amazon for poor me ! '
` Son , son ! '
said his mother ever so many times , graciously waving her tail , ` now attend to me and remember what I say .
A Hedgehog curls himself up into a ball and his prickles stick out every which way at once .
By this you may know the Hedgehog . ' '
I do n't like this old lady one little bit , ' said Stickly-Prickly , under the shadow of a large leaf . '
I wonder what else she knows ? ' '
A Tortoise ca n't curl himself up , ' Mother Jaguar went on , ever so many times , graciously waving her tail .
` He only draws his head and legs into his shell .
By this you may know the tortoise . ' '
I do n't like this old lady at all -- at all , ' said Slow-and-Solid Tortoise .
` Even Painted Jaguar ca n't forget those directions .
It 's a great pity that you ca n't swim , Stickly-Prickly . '
` Do n't talk to me , ' said Stickly-Prickly .
` Just think how much better it would be if you could curl up .
This is a mess !
Listen to Painted Jaguar . '
Painted Jaguar was sitting on the banks of the turbid Amazon sucking prickles out of his Paws and saying to himself -- ` Ca n't curl , but can swim -- Slow-Solid , that 's him !
Curls up , but ca n't swim -- Stickly-Prickly , that 's him ! '
` He 'll never forget that this month of Sundays , ' said Stickly-Prickly .
` Hold up my chin , Slow-and-Solid .
I 'm going to try to learn to swim .
It may be useful . '
` Excellent ! '
said Slow-and-Solid ; and he held up Stickly-Prickly 's chin , while Stickly-Prickly kicked in the waters of the turbid Amazon .
` You 'll make a fine swimmer yet , ' said Slow-and-Solid .
` Now , if you can unlace my back-plates a little , I 'll see what I can do towards curling up .
It may be useful . '
Stickly-Prickly helped to unlace Tortoise 's back-plates , so that by twisting and straining Slow-and-Solid actually managed to curl up a tiddy wee bit .
` Excellent ! '
said Stickly-Prickly ; ` but I should n't do any more just now .
It 's making you black in the face .
Kindly lead me into the water once again and I 'll practice that side-stroke which you say is so easy . '
And so Stickly-Prickly practiced , and Slow-Solid swam alongside .
` Excellent ! '
said Slow-and-Solid . '
A little more practice will make you a regular whale .
Now , if I may trouble you to unlace my back and front plates two holes more , I 'll try that fascinating bend that you say is so easy .
Wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
` Excellent ! '
said Stickly-Prickly , all wet from the turbid Amazon . '
I declare , I should n't know you from one of my own family .
Two holes , I think , you said ?
A little more expression , please , and do n't grunt quite so much , or Painted Jaguar may hear us .
When you 've finished , I want to try that long dive which you say is so easy .
Wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
And so Stickly-Prickly dived , and Slow-and-Solid dived alongside .
` Excellent ! '
said Slow-and-Solid . '
A leetle more attention to holding your breath and you will be able to keep house at the bottom of the turbid Amazon .
Now I 'll try that exercise of putting my hind legs round my ears which you say is so peculiarly comfortable .
Wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
` Excellent ! '
said Stickly-Prickly .
` But it 's straining your back-plates a little .
They are all overlapping now , instead of lying side by side . '
` Oh , that 's the result of exercise , ' said Slow-and-Solid .
` I 've noticed that your prickles seem to be melting into one another , and that you 're growing to look rather more like a pinecone , and less like a chestnut-burr , than you used to . '
` Am I ? '
said Stickly-Prickly .
` That comes from my soaking in the water .
Oh , wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised ! '
They went on with their exercises , each helping the other , till morning came ; and when the sun was high they rested and dried themselves .
Then they saw that they were both of them quite different from what they had been .
` Stickly-Prickly , ' said Tortoise after breakfast , ' I am not what I was yesterday ; but I think that I may yet amuse Painted Jaguar .
` That was the very thing I was thinking just now , ' said Stickly-Prickly . '
I think scales are a tremendous improvement on prickles -- to say nothing of being able to swim .
Oh , wo n't Painted Jaguar be surprised !
Let 's go and find him . '
By and by they found Painted Jaguar , still nursing his paddy-paw that had been hurt the night before .
He was so astonished that he fell three times backward over his own painted tail without stopping .
` Good morning ! '
said Stickly-Prickly .
` And how is your dear gracious Mummy this morning ? '
` She is quite well , thank you , ' said Painted Jaguar ; ` but you must forgive me if I do not at this precise moment recall your name . '
` That 's unkind of you , ' said Stickly-Prickly , ` seeing that this time yesterday you tried to scoop me out of my shell with your paw . '
` But you had n't any shell .
It was all prickles , ' said Painted Jaguar . '
I know it was .
Just look at my paw ! '
` You told me to drop into the turbid Amazon and be drowned , ' said Slow-Solid .
` Why are you so rude and forgetful to-day ? '
` Do n't you remember what your mother told you ? '
said Stickly-Prickly , -- ` Ca n't curl , but can swim -- Stickly-Prickly , that 's him !
Curls up , but ca n't swim -- Slow-Solid , that 's him ! '
Then they both curled themselves up and rolled round and round Painted Jaguar till his eyes turned truly cart-wheels in his head .
Then he went to fetch his mother .
` Mother , ' he said , ` there are two new animals in the woods to-day , and the one that you said could n't swim , swims , and the one that you said could n't curl up , curls ; and they 've gone shares in their prickles , I think , because both of them are scaly all over , instead of one being smooth and the other very prickly ; and , besides that , they are rolling round and round in circles , and I do n't feel comfy . '
` Son , son ! '
said Mother Jaguar ever so many times , graciously waving her tail , ' a Hedgehog is a Hedgehog , and ca n't be anything but a Hedgehog ; and a Tortoise is a Tortoise , and can never be anything else . '
` But it is n't a Hedgehog , and it is n't a Tortoise .
It 's a little bit of both , and I do n't know its proper name . '
` Nonsense ! '
said Mother Jaguar .
` Everything has its proper name .
I should call it `` Armadillo '' till I found out the real one .
And I should leave it alone . '
So Painted Jaguar did as he was told , especially about leaving them alone ; but the curious thing is that from that day to this , O Best Beloved , no one on the banks of the turbid Amazon has ever called Stickly-Prickly and Slow-Solid anything except Armadillo .
There are Hedgehogs and Tortoises in other places , of course -LRB- there are some in my garden -RRB- ; but the real old and clever kind , with their scales lying lippety-lappety one over the other , like pine-cone scales , that lived on the banks of the turbid Amazon in the High and Far-Off Days , are always called Armadillos , because they were so clever .
So that ; all right , Best Beloved .
Do you see ?
I 'VE never sailed the Amazon , I 've never reached Brazil ; But the Don and Magdelana , They can go there when they will !
Yes , weekly from Southampton , Great steamers , white and gold , Go rolling down to Rio -LRB- Roll down -- roll down to Rio ! -RRB-
And I 'd like to roll to Rio Some day before I 'm old !
I 've never seen a Jaguar , Nor yet an Armadill O dilloing in his armour , And I s ` pose I never will , Unless I go to Rio These wonders to behold -- Roll down -- roll down to Rio -- Roll really down to Rio !
Oh , I 'd love to roll to Rio Some day before I 'm old !
HOW THE FIRST LETTER WAS WRITTEN ONCE upon a most early time was a Neolithic man .
He was not a Jute or an Angle , or even a Dravidian , which he might well have been , Best Beloved , but never mind why .
He was a Primitive , and he lived cavily in a Cave , and he wore very few clothes , and he could n't read and he could n't write and he did n't want to , and except when he was hungry he was quite happy .
His name was Tegumai Bopsulai , and that means , ` Man-who-does-not-put-his-foot-forward-in-a-hurry ' ; but we , O Best Beloved , will call him Tegumai , for short .
And his wife 's name was Teshumai Tewindrow , and that means , ` Lady-who-asks-a-very-many-questions ' ; but we , O Best Beloved , will call her Teshumai , for short .
And his little girl-daughter 's name was Taffimai Metallumai , and that means , ` Small-person-without-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked ' ; but I 'm going to call her Taffy .
And she was Tegumai Bopsulai 's Best Beloved and her own Mummy 's Best Beloved , and she was not spanked half as much as was good for her ; and they were all three very happy .
As soon as Taffy could run about she went everywhere with her Daddy Tegumai , and sometimes they would not come home to the Cave till they were hungry , and then Teshumai Tewindrow would say , ` Where in the world have you two been to , to get so shocking dirty ?
Really , my Tegumai , you 're no better than my Taffy . '
Now attend and listen !
One day Tegumai Bopsulai went down through the beaver-swamp to the Wagai river to spear carp-fish for dinner , and Taffy went too .
Tegumai 's spear was made of wood with shark 's teeth at the end , and before he had caught any fish at all he accidentally broke it clean across by jabbing it down too hard on the bottom of the river .
They were miles and miles from home -LRB- of course they had their lunch with them in a little bag -RRB- , and Tegumai had forgotten to bring any extra spears .
` Here 's a pretty kettle of fish ! '
said Tegumai .
` It will take me half the day to mend this . '
` There 's your big black spear at home , ' said Taffy .
` Let me run back to the Cave and ask Mummy to give it me . '
` It 's too far for your little fat legs , ' said Tegumai .
` Besides , you might fall into the beaver-swamp and be drowned .
We must make the best of a bad job . '
He sat down and took out a little leather mendy-bag , full of reindeer-sinews and strips of leather , and lumps of bee 's - wax and resin , and began to mend the spear .
Taffy sat down too , with her toes in the water and her chin in her hand , and thought very hard .
Then she said -- ' I say , Daddy , it 's an awful nuisance that you and I do n't know how to write , is n't it ?
If we did we could send a message for the new spear . '
` Taffy , ' said Tegumai , ` how often have I told you not to use slang ?
`` Awful '' is n't a pretty word , but it could be a convenience , now you mention it , if we could write home . '
Just then a Stranger-man came along the river , but he belonged to a far tribe , the Tewaras , and he did not understand one word of Tegumai 's language .
He stood on the bank and smiled at Taffy , because he had a little girl-daughter Of his own at home .
Tegumai drew a hank of deer-sinews from his mendy-bag and began to mend his spear .
` Come here , said Taffy .
` Do you know where my Mummy lives ? '
And the Stranger-man said ` Um ! '
being , as you know , a Tewara .
` Silly ! '
said Taffy , and she stamped her foot , because she saw a shoal of very big carp going up the river just when her Daddy could n't use his spear .
` Do n't bother grown-ups , ' said Tegumai , so busy with his spear-mending that he did not turn round . '
I are n't , said Taffy . '
I only want him to do what I want him to do , and he wo n't understand . '
` Then do n't bother me , said Tegumai , and he went on pulling and straining at the deer-sinews with his mouth full of loose ends .
The Stranger-man -- a genuine Tewara he was -- sat down on the grass , and Taffy showed him what her Daddy was doing .
The Stranger-man thought , this is a very wonderful child .
She stamps her foot at me and she makes faces .
She must be the daughter of that noble Chief who is so great that he wo n't take any notice of me . '
So he smiled more politely than ever .
` Now , ' said Taffy , ' I want you to go to my Mummy , because your legs are longer than mine , and you wo n't fall into the beaver-swamp , and ask for Daddy 's other spear -- the one with the black handle that hangs over our fireplace . '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he was a Tewara -RRB- thought , ` This is a very , very wonderful child .
She waves her arms and she shouts at me , but I do n't understand a word of what she says .
But if I do n't do what she wants , I greatly fear that that haughty Chief , Man-who-turns-his-back-on-callers , will be angry . '
He got up and twisted a big flat piece of bark off a birch-tree and gave it to Taffy .
He did this , Best Beloved , to show that his heart was as white as the birch-bark and that he meant no harm ; but Taffy did n't quite understand .
` Oh ! '
said she .
` Now I see !
You want my Mummy 's living-address ?
Of course I ca n't write , but I can draw pictures if I 've anything sharp to scratch with .
Please lend me the shark 's tooth off your necklace . '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he was a Tewara -RRB- did n't say anything , So Taffy put up her little hand and pulled at the beautiful bead and seed and shark-tooth necklace round his neck .
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he was a Tewara -RRB- thought , ` This is a very , very , very wonderful child .
The shark 's tooth on my necklace is a magic shark 's tooth , and I was always told that if anybody touched it without my leave they would immediately swell up or burst , but this child does n't swell up or burst , and that important Chief , Man-who-attends-strictly-to-his-business , who has not yet taken any notice of me at all , does n't seem to be afraid that she will swell up or burst .
I had better be more polite . '
So he gave Taffy the shark 's tooth , and she lay down flat on her tummy with her legs in the air , like some people on the drawing-room floor when they want to draw pictures , and she said , ` Now I 'll draw you some beautiful pictures !
You can look over my shoulder , but you must n't joggle .
First I 'll draw Daddy fishing .
It is n't very like him ; but Mummy will know , because I 've drawn his spear all broken .
Well , now I 'll draw the other spear that he wants , the black-handled spear .
It looks as if it was sticking in Daddy 's back , but that 's because the shark 's tooth slipped and this piece of bark is n't big enough .
That 's the spear I want you to fetch ; so I 'll draw a picture of me myself ` splaining to you .
My hair does n't stand up like I 've drawn , but it 's easier to draw that way .
Now I 'll draw you .
I think you 're very nice really , but I ca n't make you pretty in the picture , so you must n't be ` fended .
Are you ` fended ? '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he was a Tewara -RRB- smiled .
He thought , ` There must be a big battle going to be fought somewhere , and this extraordinary child , who takes my magic shark 's tooth but who does not swell up or burst , is telling me to call all the great Chief 's tribe to help him .
He is a great Chief , or he would have noticed me .
` Look , ' said Taffy , drawing very hard and rather scratchily , ` now I 've drawn you , and I 've put the spear that Daddy wants into your hand , just to remind you that you 're to bring it .
Now I 'll show you how to find my Mummy 's living-address .
You go along till you come to two trees -LRB- those are trees -RRB- , and then you go over a hill -LRB- that 's a hill -RRB- , and then you come into a beaver-swamp all full of beavers .
I have n't put in all the beavers , because I ca n't draw beavers , but I 've drawn their heads , and that 's all you 'll see of them when you cross the swamp .
Mind you do n't fall in !
Then our Cave is just beyond the beaver-swamp .
It is n't as high as the hills really , but I ca n't draw things very small .
That 's my Mummy outside .
She is beautiful .
She is the most beautifullest Mummy there ever was , but she wo n't be ` fended when she sees I 've drawn her so plain .
She 'll be pleased of me because I can draw .
Now , in case you forget , I 've drawn the spear that Daddy wants outside our Cave .
It 's inside really , but you show the picture to my Mummy and she 'll give it you .
I 've made her holding up her hands , because I know she 'll be so pleased to see you .
Is n't it a beautiful picture ?
And do you quite understand , or shall I ` splain again ? '
The Stranger-man -LRB- and he was a Tewara -RRB- looked at the picture and nodded very hard .
He said to himself , ' If I do not fetch this great Chief 's tribe to help him , he will be slain by his enemies who are coming up on all sides with spears .
Now I see why the great Chief pretended not to notice me !
He feared that his enemies were hiding in the bushes and would see him .
Therefore he turned to me his back , and let the wise and wonderful child draw the terrible picture showing me his difficulties .
I will away and get help for him from his tribe . '
He did not even ask Taffy the road , but raced off into the bushes like the wind , with the birch-bark in his hand , and Taffy sat down most pleased .
Now this is the picture that Taffy had drawn for him !
` What have you been doing , Taffy ? '
said Tegumai .
He had mended his spear and was carefully waving it to and fro .
` It 's a little berangement of my own , Daddy dear , ' said Taffy .
` If you wo n't ask me questions , you 'll know all about it in a little time , and you 'll be surprised .
You do n't know how surprised you 'll be , Daddy !
Promise you 'll be surprised . '
` Very well , ' said Tegumai , and went on fishing .
The Stranger-man -- did you know he was a Tewara ?
-- hurried away with the picture and ran for some miles , till quite by accident he found Teshumai Tewindrow at the door of her Cave , talking to some other Neolithic ladies who had come in to a Primitive lunch .
Taffy was very like Teshumai , especially about the upper part of the face and the eyes , so the Stranger-man -- always a pure Tewara -- smiled politely and handed Teshumai the birch-bark .
He had run hard , so that he panted , and his legs were scratched with brambles , but he still tried to be polite .
As soon as Teshumai saw the picture she screamed like anything and flew at the Stranger-man .
The other Neolithic ladies at once knocked him down and sat on him in a long line of six , while Teshumai pulled his hair .
` It 's as plain as the nose on this Stranger-man 's face , ' she said .
` He has stuck my Tegumai all full of spears , and frightened poor Taffy so that her hair stands all on end ; and not content with that , he brings me a horrid picture of how it was done .
Look ! '
She showed the picture to all the Neolithic ladies sitting patiently on the Stranger-man .
` Here is my Tegumai with his arm broken ; here is a spear sticking into his back ; here is a man with a spear ready to throw ; here is another man throwing a spear from a Cave , and here are a whole pack of people ' -LRB- they were Taffy 's beavers really , but they did look rather like people -RRB- ` coming up behind Tegumai .
Is n't it shocking ! '
` Most shocking ! '
said the Neolithic ladies , and they filled the Stranger-man 's hair with mud -LRB- at which he was surprised -RRB- , and they beat upon the Reverberating Tribal Drums , and called together all the chiefs of the Tribe of Tegumai , with their Hetmans and Dolmans , all Neguses , Woons , and Akhoonds of the organisation , in addition to the Warlocks , Angekoks , Juju-men , Bonzes , and the rest , who decided that before they chopped the Stranger-man 's head off he should instantly lead them down to the river and show them where he had hidden poor Taffy .
By this time the Stranger-man -LRB- in spite of being a Tewara -RRB- was really annoyed .
They had filled his hair quite solid with mud ; they had rolled him up and down on knobby pebbles ; they had sat upon him in a long line of six ; they had thumped him and bumped him till he could hardly breathe ; and though he did not understand their language , he was almost sure that the names the Neolithic ladies called him were not ladylike .
However , he said nothing till all the Tribe of Tegumai were assembled , and then he led them back to the bank of the Wagai river , and there they found Taffy making daisy-chains , and Tegumai carefully spearing small carp with his mended spear .
` Well , you have been quick ! '
said Taffy .
` But why did you bring so many people ?
Daddy dear , this is my surprise .
Are you surprised , Daddy ? '
` Very , ' said Tegumai ; ` but it has ruined all my fishing for the day .
Why , the whole dear , kind , nice , clean , quiet Tribe is here , Taffy . '
And so they were .
First of all walked Teshumai Tewindrow and the Neolithic ladies , tightly holding on to the Stranger-man , whose hair was full of mud -LRB- although he was a Tewara -RRB- .
Behind them came the Head Chief , the Vice-Chief , the Deputy and Assistant Chiefs -LRB- all armed to the upper teeth -RRB- , the Hetmans and Heads of Hundreds , Platoffs with their Platoons , and Dolmans with their Detachments ; Woons , Neguses , and Akhoonds ranking in the rear -LRB- still armed to the teeth -RRB- .
Behind them was the Tribe in hierarchical order , from owners of four caves -LRB- one for each season -RRB- , a private reindeer-run , and two salmon-leaps , to feudal and prognathous Villeins , semi-entitled to half a bearskin of winter nights , seven yards from the fire , and adscript serfs , holding the reversion of a scraped marrow-bone under heriot -LRB- Are n't those beautiful words , Best Beloved ? -RRB-
.
They were all there , prancing and shouting , and they frightened every fish for twenty miles , and Tegumai thanked them in a fluid Neolithic oration .
Then Teshumai Tewindrow ran down and kissed and hugged Taffy very much indeed ; but the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai took Tegumai by the top-knot feathers and shook him severely .
` Explain !
Explain !
Explain ! '
cried all the Tribe of Tegumai .
` Goodness ' sakes alive ! '
said Tegumai .
` Let go of my top-knot .
Ca n't a man break his carp-spear without the whole countryside descending on him ?
You 're a very interfering people . ' '
I do n't believe you 've brought my Daddy 's black-handled spear after all , ' said Taffy .
` And what are you doing to my nice Stranger-man ? '
They were thumping him by twos and threes and tens till his eyes turned round and round .
He could only gasp and point at Taffy .
` Where are the bad people who speared you , my darling ? '
said Teshumai Tewindrow .
` There were n't any , ' said Tegumai .
` My only visitor this morning was the poor fellow that you are trying to choke .
Are n't you well , or are you ill , O Tribe of Tegumai ? '
` He came with a horrible picture , ' said the Head Chief , -- ' a picture that showed you were full of spears . '
` Er-um-Pr ` aps I 'd better ` splain that I gave him that picture , ' said Taffy , but she did not feel quite comfy .
` You ! '
said the Tribe of Tegumai all together .
` Small-person-with-no-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked !
You ? '
` Taffy dear , I 'm afraid we 're in for a little trouble , ' said her Daddy , and put his arm round her , so she did n't care .
` Explain !
Explain !
Explain ! '
said the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai , and he hopped on one foot . '
I wanted the Stranger-man to fetch Daddy 's spear , so I drawded it , ' said Taffy .
` There was n't lots of spears .
There was only one spear .
I drawded it three times to make sure .
I could n't help it looking as if it stuck into Daddy 's head -- there was n't room on the birch-bark ; and those things that Mummy called bad people are my beavers .
I drawded them to show him the way through the swamp ; and I drawded Mummy at the mouth of the Cave looking pleased because he is a nice Stranger-man , and I think you are just the stupidest people in the world , ' said Taffy .
` He is a very nice man .
Why have you filled his hair with mud ?
Wash him ! '
Nobody said anything at all for a longtime , till the Head Chief laughed ; then the Stranger-man -LRB- who was at least a Tewara -RRB- laughed ; then Tegumai laughed till he fell down flat on the bank ; then all the Tribe laughed more and worse and louder .
The only people who did not laugh were Teshumai Tewindrow and all the Neolithic ladies .
They were very polite to all their husbands , and said ` Idiot ! '
ever so often .
Then the Head Chief of the Tribe of Tegumai cried and said and sang , ' O Small-person-with-out-any-manners-who-ought-to-be-spanked , you 've hit upon a great invention ! ' '
I did n't intend to ; I only wanted Daddy 's black-handled spear , ' said Taffy .
` Never mind .
It is a great invention , and some day men will call it writing .
At present it is only pictures , and , as we have seen to-day , pictures are not always properly understood .
But a time will come , O Babe of Tegumai , when we shall make letters -- all twenty-six of 'em , -- and when we shall be able to read as well as to write , and then we shall always say exactly what we mean without any mistakes .
Let the Neolithic ladies wash the mud out of the stranger 's hair . ' '
I shall be glad of that , ' said Taffy , ` because , after all , though you 've brought every single other spear in the Tribe of Tegumai , you 've forgotten my Daddy 's black-handled spear . '
Then the Head Chief cried and said and sang , ` Taffy dear , the next time you write a picture-letter , you 'd better send a man who can talk our language with it , to explain what it means .
I do n't mind it myself , because I am a Head Chief , but it 's very bad for the rest of the Tribe of Tegumai , and , as you can see , it surprises the stranger . '
Then they adopted the Stranger-man -LRB- a genuine Tewara of Tewar -RRB- into the Tribe of Tegumai , because he was a gentleman and did not make a fuss about the mud that the Neolithic ladies had put into his hair .
But from that day to this -LRB- and I suppose it is all Taffy 's fault -RRB- , very few little girls have ever liked learning to read or write .
Most of them prefer to draw pictures and play about with their Daddies -- just like Taffy .
THERE runs a road by Merrow Down -- A grassy track to-day it is An hour out of Guildford town , Above the river Wey it is .
Here , when they heard the horse-bells ring , The ancient Britons dressed and rode To watch the dark Phoenicians bring Their goods along the Western Road .
And here , or hereabouts , they met To hold their racial talks and such -- To barter beads for Whitby jet , And tin for gay shell torques and such .
But long and long before that time -LRB- When bison used to roam on it -RRB- Did Taffy and her Daddy climb That down , and had their home on it .
Then beavers built in Broadstone brook And made a swamp where Bramley stands : And hears from Shere would come and look For Taffimai where Shamley stands .
The Wey , that Taffy called Wagai , Was more than six times bigger then ; And all the Tribe of Tegumai They cut a noble figure then !
HOW THE ALPHABET WAS MADE THE week after Taffimai Metallumai -LRB- we will still call her Taffy , Best Beloved -RRB- made that little mistake about her Daddy 's spear and the Stranger-man and the picture-letter and all , she went carp-fishing again with her Daddy .
Her Mummy wanted her to stay at home and help hang up hides to dry on the big drying-poles outside their Neolithic Cave , but Taffy slipped away down to her Daddy quite early , and they fished .
Presently she began to giggle , and her Daddy said , ` Do n't be silly , child . '
` But was n't it inciting ! '
said Taffy .
` Do n't you remember how the Head Chief puffed out his cheeks , and how funny the nice Stranger-man looked with the mud in his hair ? '
` Well do I , ' said Tegumai . '
I had to pay two deerskins -- soft ones with fringes -- to the Stranger-man for the things we did to him . '
` We did n't do anything , ' said Taffy .
` It was Mummy and the other Neolithic ladies -- and the mud . '
` We wo n't talk about that , ' said her Daddy , ` Let 's have lunch . '
Taffy took a marrow-bone and sat mousy-quiet for ten whole minutes , while her Daddy scratched on pieces of birch-bark with a shark 's tooth .
Then she said , ` Daddy , I 've thinked of a secret surprise .
You make a noise -- any sort of noise . '
` Ah ! '
said Tegumai .
` Will that do to begin with ? '
` Yes , ' said Taffy .
` You look just like a carp-fish with its mouth open .
Say it again , please . '
` Ah !
ah !
ah ! '
said her Daddy .
` Do n't be rude , my daughter . '
` I 'm not meaning rude , really and truly , ' said Taffy .
` It 's part of my secret-surprise-think .
Do say ah , Daddy , and keep your mouth open at the end , and lend me that tooth .
I 'm going to draw a carp-fish 's mouth wide-open . '
` What for ? '
said her Daddy .
` Do n't you see ? '
said Taffy , scratching away on the bark .
` That will be our little secret s ` prise .
When I draw a carp-fish with his mouth open in the smoke at the back of our Cave -- if Mummy does n't mind -- it will remind you of that ah-noise .
Then we can play that it was me jumped out of the dark and s ` prised you with that noise -- same as I did in the beaver-swamp last winter . '
` Really ? '
said her Daddy , in the voice that grown-ups use when they are truly attending .
` Go on , Taffy . '
` Oh bother ! '
she said . '
I ca n't draw all of a carp-fish , but I can draw something that means a carp-fish 's mouth .
Do n't you know how they stand on their heads rooting in the mud ?
Well , here 's a pretence carp-fish -LRB- we can play that the rest of him is drawn -RRB- .
Here 's just his mouth , and that means ah . '
And she drew this .
-LRB- 1 . -RRB-
` That 's not bad , ' said Tegumai , and scratched on his own piece of bark for himself ; but you 've forgotten the feeler that hangs across his mouth . '
` But I ca n't draw , Daddy . '
` You need n't draw anything of him except just the opening of his mouth and the feeler across .
Then we 'll know he 's a carp-fish , 'cause the perches and trouts have n't got feelers .
Look here , Taffy . '
And he drew this .
-LRB- 2 . -RRB-
` Now I 'll copy it . '
said Taffy .
` Will you understand this when you see it ? '
` Perfectly , ' said her Daddy .
And she drew this .
-LRB- 3 . -RRB-
` And I 'll be quite as s ` prised when I see it anywhere , as if you had jumped out from behind a tree and said ' `` Ah ! '' '
` Now , make another noise , ' said Taffy , very proud .
` Yah ! '
said her Daddy , very loud .
` H 'm , ' said Taffy .
` That 's a mixy noise .
The end part is ah-carp-fish-mouth ; but what can we do about the front part ?
Yer-yer-yer and ah !
Ya ! '
` It 's very like the carp-fish-mouth noise .
Let 's draw another bit of the carp-fish and join 'em , ' said her Daddy .
He was quite incited too .
` No .
If they 're joined , I 'll forget .
Draw it separate .
Draw his tail .
If he 's standing on his head the tail will come first .
` Sides , I think I can draw tails easiest , ' said Taffy . '
A good notion , ' said Tegumai .
` Here 's a carp-fish tail for the yer-noise . '
And he drew this .
-LRB- 4 . -RRB-
` I 'll try now , ' said Taffy . ''
Member I ca n't draw like you , Daddy .
Will it do if I just draw the split part of the tail , and the sticky-down line for where it joins ? '
And she drew this .
-LRB- 5 . -RRB-
Her Daddy nodded , and his eyes were shiny bright with ` citement .
` That 's beautiful , ' she said .
` Now make another noise , Daddy . '
` Oh ! '
said her Daddy , very loud .
` That 's quite easy , ' said Taffy .
` You make your mouth all around like an egg or a stone .
So an egg or a stone will do for that . '
` You ca n't always find eggs or stones .
We 'll have to scratch a round something like one . '
And he drew this .
-LRB- 6 . -RRB-
` My gracious ! '
said Taffy , ` what a lot of noise-pictures we 've made , -- carp-mouth , carp-tail , and egg !
Now , make another noise , Daddy . '
` Ssh ! '
said her Daddy , and frowned to himself , but Taffy was too incited to notice .
` That 's quite easy , ' she said , scratching on the bark .
` Eh , what ? '
said her Daddy . '
I meant I was thinking , and did n't want to be disturbed . '
` It 's a noise just the same .
It 's the noise a snake makes , Daddy , when it is thinking and does n't want to be disturbed .
Let 's make the ssh-noise a snake .
Will this do ? '
And she drew this .
-LRB- 7 . -RRB-
` There , ' she said .
` That 's another s ` prise-secret .
When you draw a hissy-snake by the door of your little back-cave where you mend the spears , I 'll know you 're thinking hard ; and I 'll come in most mousy-quiet .
And if you draw it on a tree by the river when you are fishing , I 'll know you want me to walk most most mousy-quiet , so as not to shake the banks . '
` Perfectly true , ' said Tegumai .
And there 's more in this game than you think .
Taffy , dear , I 've a notion that your Daddy 's daughter has hit upon the finest thing that there ever was since the Tribe of Tegumai took to using shark 's teeth instead of flints for their spear-heads .
I believe we 've found out the big secret of the world . '
` Why ? '
said Taffy , and her eyes shone too with incitement .
` I 'll show , ' said her Daddy .
` What 's water in the Tegumai language ? '
` Ya , of course , and it means river too -- like Wagai-ya -- the Wagai river . '
` What is bad water that gives you fever if you drink it -- black water -- swamp-water ? '
` Yo , of course . '
` Now look , ' said her Daddy .
'S ` pose you saw this scratched by the side of a pool in the beaver-swamp ? '
And he drew this .
-LRB- 8 . -RRB-
` Carp-tail and round egg .
Two noises mixed !
Yo , bad water , ' said Taffy . ''
Course I would n't drink that water because I 'd know you said it was bad . '
` But I need n't be near the water at all .
I might be miles away , hunting , and still -- ' ` And still it would be just the same as if you stood there and said , `` G'way , Taffy , or you 'll get fever . ''
All that in a carp-fish-tail and a round egg !
O Daddy , we must tell Mummy , quick ! '
and Taffy danced all round him .
` Not yet , ' said Tegumai ; ` not till we 've gone a little further .
Let 's see .
Yo is bad water , but So is food cooked on the fire , is n't it ? '
And he drew this .
-LRB- 9 . -RRB-
` Yes .
Snake and egg , ' said Taffy ` So that means dinner 's ready .
If you saw that scratched on a tree you 'd know it was time to come to the Cave .
So 'd I. ' ` My Winkie ! '
said Tegumai .
` That 's true too .
But wait a minute .
I see a difficulty .
SO means `` come and have dinner , '' but sho means the drying-poles where we hang our hides . '
` Horrid old drying-poles ! '
said Taffy . '
I hate helping to hang heavy , hot , hairy hides on them .
If you drew the snake and egg , and I thought it meant dinner , and I came in from the wood and found that it meant I was to help Mummy hang the two hides on the drying-poles , what would I do ? '
` You 'd be cross .
So 'd Mummy .
We must make a new picture for sho .
We must draw a spotty snake that hisses sh-sh , and we 'll play that the plain snake only hisses ssss . ' '
I could n't be sure how to put in the spots , ' said Taffy .
` And p ` raps if you were in a hurry you might leave them out , and I 'd think it was so when it was sho , and then Mummy would catch me just the same .
No !
I think we 'd better draw a picture of the horrid high drying-poles their very selves , and make quite sure .
I 'll put them in just after the hissy-snake .
Look ! '
And she drew this .
-LRB- 10 . -RRB-
` P'raps that 's safest .
It 's very like our drying-poles , anyhow , ' said her Daddy , laughing .
` Now I 'll make a new noise with a snake and drying-pole sound in it .
I 'll say shi .
That 's Tegumai for spear , Taffy . '
And he laughed .
` Do n't make fun of me , ' said Taffy , as she thought of her picture-letter and the mud in the Stranger-man 's hair .
` You draw it , Daddy . '
` We wo n't have beavers or hills this time , eh ? '
said her Daddy , ` I 'll just draw a straight line for my spear . '
and he drew this .
-LRB- 11 . -RRB-
` Even Mummy could n't mistake that for me being killed . '
` Please do n't , Daddy .
It makes me uncomfy .
Do some more noises .
We 're getting on beautifully . '
` Er-hm ! '
said Tegumai , looking up .
` We 'll say shu .
That means sky . '
Taffy drew the snake and the drying-pole .
Then she stopped .
` We must make a new picture for that end sound , must n't we ? '
` Shu-shu-u-u-u ! '
said her Daddy .
` Why , it 's just like the round-egg-sound made thin . '
` Then s ` pose we draw a thin round egg , and pretend it 's a frog that has n't eaten anything for years . '
` N-no , ' said her Daddy .
` If we drew that in a hurry we might mistake it for the round egg itself .
Shu-shu-shu ! '
I tell you what we 'll do .
We 'll open a little hole at the end of the round egg to show how the O-noise runs out all thin , ooo-oo-oo .
Like this . '
And he drew this .
-LRB- 12 . -RRB-
` Oh , that 's lovely !
Much better than a thin frog .
Go on , ' said Taffy , using her shark 's tooth .
Her Daddy went on drawing , and his hand shook with incitement .
He went on till he had drawn this .
-LRB- 13 . -RRB-
` Do n't look up , Taffy , ' he said .
` Try if you can make out what that means in the Tegumai language .
If you can , we 've found the Secret . '
` Snake -- pole -- broken -- egg -- carp -- tail and carp-mouth , ' said Taffy .
` Shu-ya .
Sky-water -LRB- rain -RRB- . '
Just then a drop fell on her hand , for the day had clouded over .
` Why , Daddy , it 's raining .
Was that what you meant to tell me ? '
` Of course , ' said her Daddy .
` And I told it you without saying a word , did n't I ? '
` Well , I think I would have known it in a minute , but that raindrop made me quite sure .
I 'll always remember now .
Shu-ya means rain , or `` it is going to rain . ''
Why , Daddy ! '
She got up and danced round him .
'S ` pose you went out before I was awake , and drawed shu-ya in the smoke on the wall , I 'd know it was going to rain and I 'd take my beaver-skin hood .
Would n't Mummy be surprised ? '
Tegumai got up and danced .
-LRB- Daddies did n't mind doing those things in those days . -RRB-
` More than that !
More than that ! '
he said .
'S ` pose I wanted to tell you it was n't going to rain much and you must come down to the river , what would we draw ?
Say the words in Tegumai-talk first . '
` Shu-ya-las , ya maru .
-LRB- Sky-water ending .
River come to . -RRB-
what a lot of new sounds !
I do n't see how we can draw them . '
` But I do -- but I do ! '
said Tegumai .
` Just attend a minute , Taffy , and we wo n't do any more to-day .
We 've got shu-ya all right , have n't we ?
But this las is a teaser .
La-la-la ' and he waved his shark-tooth .
` There 's the hissy-snake at the end and the carp-mouth before the snake -- as-as-as .
We only want la-la , ' said Taffy . '
I know it , but we have to make la-la .
And we 're the first people in all the world who 've ever tried to do it , Taffimai ! '
` Well , ' said Taffy , yawning , for she was rather tired .
` Las means breaking or finishing as well as ending , does n't it ? '
` So it does , ' said Tegumai .
` To-las means that there 's no water in the tank for Mummy to cook with -- just when I 'm going hunting , too . '
` And shi-las means that your spear is broken .
If I 'd only thought of that instead of drawing silly beaver pictures for the Stranger ! '
` La !
La !
La ! '
said Tegumai , waiving his stick and frowning .
` Oh bother ! ' '
I could have drawn shi quite easily , ' Taffy went on .
` Then I 'd have drawn your spear all broken -- this way ! '
And she drew .
-LRB- 14 . -RRB-
` The very thing , ' said Tegumai .
` That 's la all over .
It is n't like any of the other marks either . '
And he drew this .
-LRB- 15 . -RRB-
` Now for ya .
Oh , we 've done that before .
Now for maru .
Mum-mum-mum .
Mum shuts one 's mouth up , does n't it ?
We 'll draw a shut mouth like this . '
And he drew .
-LRB- 16 . -RRB-
` Then the carp-mouth open .
That makes Ma-ma-ma !
But what about this rrrrr-thing , Taffy ? '
` It sounds all rough and edgy , like your shark-tooth saw when you 're cutting out a plank for the canoe , ' said Taffy .
` You mean all sharp at the edges , like this ? '
said Tegumai .
And he drew .
-LRB- 17 . -RRB- ''
Xactly , ' said Taffy .
` But we do n't want all those teeth : only put two . '
` I 'll only put in one , ' said Tegumai .
` If this game of ours is going to be what I think it will , the easier we make our sound-pictures the better for everybody . '
And he drew .
-LRB- 18 . -RRB-
` Now , we 've got it , ' said Tegumai , standing on one leg .
` I 'll draw 'em all in a string like fish . '
` Had n't we better put a little bit of stick or something between each word , so 's they wo n't rub up against each other and jostle , same as if they were carps ? '
` Oh , I 'll leave a space for that , ' said her Daddy .
And very incitedly he drew them all without stopping , on a big new bit of birch-bark .
-LRB- 19 . -RRB-
` Shu-ya-las ya-maru , ' said Taffy , reading it out sound by sound .
` That 's enough for to-day , ' said Tegumai .
` Besides , you 're getting tired , Taffy .
Never mind , dear .
We 'll finish it all to-morrow , and then we 'll be remembered for years and years after the biggest trees you can see are all chopped up for firewood . '
So they went home , and all that evening Tegumai sat on one side of the fire and Taffy on the other , drawing ya 's and yo 's and shu 's and shi 's in the smoke on the wall and giggling together till her Mummy said , ` Really , Tegumai , you 're worse than my Taffy . '
` Please do n't mind , ' said Taffy .
` It 's only our secret-s ` prise , Mummy dear , and we 'll tell you all about it the very minute it 's done ; but please do n't ask me what it is now , or else I 'll have to tell . '
So her Mummy most carefully did n't ; and bright and early next morning Tegumai went down to the river to think about new sound pictures , and when Taffy got up she saw Ya-las -LRB- water is ending or running out -RRB- chalked on the side of the big stone water-tank , outside the Cave .
` Um , ' said Taffy .
` These picture-sounds are rather a bother !
Daddy 's just as good as come here himself and told me to get more water for Mummy to cook with . '
She went to the spring at the back of the house and filled the tank from a bark bucket , and then she ran down to the river and pulled her Daddy 's left ear -- the one that belonged to her to pull when she was good .
` Now come along and we 'll draw all the left-over sound-pictures , ' said her Daddy , and they had a most inciting day of it , and a beautiful lunch in the middle , and two games of romps .
When they came to T , Taffy said that as her name , and her Daddy 's , and her Mummy 's all began with that sound , they should draw a sort of family group of themselves holding hands .
That was all very well to draw once or twice ; but when it came to drawing it six or seven times , Taffy and Tegumai drew it scratchier and scratchier , till at last the T-sound was only a thin long Tegumai with his arms out to hold Taffy and Teshumai .
You can see from these three pictures partly how it happened .
-LRB- 20 , 21 , 22 . -RRB-
Many of the other pictures were much too beautiful to begin with , especially before lunch , but as they were drawn over and over again on birch-bark , they became plainer and easier , till at last even Tegumai said he could find no fault with them .
They turned the hissy-snake the other way round for the Z-sound , to show it was hissing backwards in a soft and gentle way -LRB- 23 -RRB- ; and they just made a twiddle for E , because it came into the pictures so often -LRB- 24 -RRB- ; and they drew pictures of the sacred Beaver of the Tegumais for the B-sound -LRB- 25 , 26 , 27 , 28 -RRB- ; and because it was a nasty , nosy noise , they just drew noses for the N-sound , till they were tired -LRB- 29 -RRB- ; and they drew a picture of the big lake-pike 's mouth for the greedy Ga-sound -LRB- 30 -RRB- ; and they drew the pike 's mouth again with a spear behind it for the scratchy , hurty Ka-sound -LRB- 31 -RRB- ; and they drew pictures of a little bit of the winding Wagai river for the nice windy-windy Wa-sound -LRB- 32 , 33 -RRB- ; and so on and so forth and so following till they had done and drawn all the sound-pictures that they wanted , and there was the Alphabet , all complete .
And after thousands and thousands and thousands of years , and after Hieroglyphics and Demotics , and Nilotics , and Cryptics , and Cufics , and Runics , and Dorics , and Ionics , and all sorts of other ricks and tricks -LRB- because the Woons , and the Neguses , and the Akhoonds , and the Repositories of Tradition would never leave a good thing alone when they saw it -RRB- , the fine old easy , understandable Alphabet -- A , B , C , D , E , and the rest of 'em -- got back into its proper shape again for all Best Beloveds to learn when they are old enough .
But I remember Tegumai Bopsulai , and Taffimai Metallumai and Teshumai Tewindrow , her dear Mummy , and all the days gone by .
And it was so -- just so -- a little time ago -- on the banks of the big Wagai !
OF all the Tribe of Tegumai Who cut that figure , none remain , -- On Merrow Down the cuckoos cry The silence and the sun remain .
But as the faithful years return And hearts unwounded sing again , Comes Taffy dancing through the fern To lead the Surrey spring again .
Her brows are bound with bracken-fronds , And golden elf-locks fly above ; Her eyes are bright as diamonds And bluer than the skies above .
In mocassins and deer-skin cloak , Unfearing , free and fair she flits , And lights her little damp-wood smoke To show her Daddy where she flits .
For far -- oh , very far behind , So far she can not call to him , Comes Tegumai alone to find The daughter that was all to him .
THE CRAB THAT PLAYED WITH THE SEA BEFORE the High and Far-Off Times , O my Best Beloved , came the Time of the Very Beginnings ; and that was in the days when the Eldest Magician was getting Things ready .
First he got the Earth ready ; then he got the Sea ready ; and then he told all the Animals that they could come out and play .
And the Animals said , ' O Eldest Magician , what shall we play at ? '
and he said , ' I will show you .
He took the Elephant -- All-the-Elephant-there-was -- and said , ` Play at being an Elephant , ' and All-the-Elephant-there-was played .
He took the Beaver -- All-the-Beaver-there-was and said , ` Play at being a Beaver , ' and All-the Beaver-there-was played .
He took the Cow -- All-the Cow-there-was -- and said , ` Play at being a Cow , ' and All-the-Cow-there-was played .
He took the Turtle -- All-the-Turtle there-was and said , ` Play at being a Turtle , ' and All-the-Turtle-there-was played .
One by one he took all the beasts and birds and fishes and told them what to play at .
But towards evening , when people and things grow restless and tired , there came up the Man -LRB- With his own little girl-daughter ? -RRB-
-- Yes , with his own best beloved little girl-daughter sitting upon his shoulder , and he said , ` What is this play , Eldest Magician ? '
And the Eldest Magician said , ` Ho , Son of Adam , this is the play of the Very Beginning ; but you are too wise for this play . '
And the Man saluted and said , ` Yes , I am too wise for this play ; but see that you make all the Animals obedient to me . '
Now , while the two were talking together , Pau Amma the Crab , who was next in the game , scuttled off sideways and stepped into the sea , saying to himself , ' I will play my play alone in the deep waters , and I will never be obedient to this son of Adam . '
Nobody saw him go away except the little girl-daughter where she leaned on the Man 's shoulder .
And the play went on till there were no more Animals left without orders ; and the Eldest Magician wiped the fine dust off his hands and walked about the world to see how the Animals were playing .
He went North , Best Beloved , and he found All-the-Elephant-there-was digging with his tusks and stamping with his feet in the nice new clean earth that had been made ready for him .
` Kun ? '
said All-the-Elephant-there-was , meaning , ` Is this right ? '
` Payah kun , ' said the Eldest Magician , meaning , ` That is quite right ' ; and he breathed upon the great rocks and lumps of earth that All-the-Elephant-there-was had thrown up , and they became the great Himalayan Mountains , and you can look them out on the map .
He went East , and he found All-the-Cow there-was feeding in the field that had been made ready for her , and she licked her tongue round a whole forest at a time , and swallowed it and sat down to chew her cud .
` Kun ? '
said All-the-Cow-there-was .
` Payah kun , ' said the Eldest Magician ; and he breathed upon the bare patch where she had eaten , and upon the place where she had sat down , and one became the great Indian Desert , and the other became the Desert of Sahara , and you can look them out on the map .
He went West , and he found All-the-Beaver-there-was making a beaver-dam across the mouths of broad rivers that had been got ready for him .
` Kun ? '
said All-the-Beaver-there-was .
` Payah kun , ' said the Eldest Magician ; and he breathed upon the fallen trees and the still water , and they became the Everglades in Florida , and you may look them out on the map .
Then he went South and found All-the-Turtle-there-was scratching with his flippers in the sand that had been got ready for him , and the sand and the rocks whirled through the air and fell far off into the sea .
` Kun ? '
said All-the-Turtle-there-was .
` Payah kun , ' said the Eldest Magician ; and he breathed upon the sand and the rocks , where they had fallen in the sea , and they became the most beautiful islands of Borneo , Celebes , Sumatra , Java , and the rest of the Malay Archipelago , and you can look them out on the map !
By and by the Eldest Magician met the Man on the banks of the Perak river , and said , ` Ho !
Son of Adam , are all the Animals obedient to you ? '
` Yes , ' said the Man .
` Is all the Earth obedient to you ? '
` Yes , ' said the Man .
` Is all the Sea obedient to you ? '
` No , ' said the Man .
` Once a day and once a night the Sea runs up the Perak river and drives the sweet-water back into the forest , so that my house is made wet ; once a day and once a night it runs down the river and draws all the water after it , so that there is nothing left but mud , and my canoe is upset .
Is that the play you told it to play ? '
` No , ' said the Eldest Magician .
` That is a new and a bad play . '
` Look ! '
said the Man , and as he spoke the great Sea came up the mouth of the Perak river , driving the river backwards till it overflowed all the dark forests for miles and miles , and flooded the Man 's house .
` This is wrong .
Launch your canoe and we will find out who is playing with the Sea , ' said the Eldest Magician .
They stepped into the canoe ; the little girl-daughter came with them ; and the Man took his kris -- a curving , wavy dagger with a blade like a flame , -- and they pushed out on the Perak river .
Then the sea began to run back and back , and the canoe was sucked out of the mouth of the Perak river , past Selangor , past Malacca , past Singapore , out and out to the Island of Bingtang , as though it had been pulled by a string .
Then the Eldest Magician stood up and shouted , ` Ho !
beasts , birds , and fishes , that I took between my hands at the Very Beginning and taught the play that you should play , which one of you is playing with the Sea ? '
Then all the beasts , birds , and fishes said together , ` Eldest Magician , we play the plays that you taught us to play -- we and our children 's children .
But not one of us plays with the Sea . '
Then the Moon rose big and full over the water , and the Eldest Magician said to the hunchbacked old man who sits in the Moon spinning a fishing-line with which he hopes one day to catch the world , ` Ho !
Fisher of the Moon , are you playing with the Sea ? '
` No , ' said the Fisherman , ' I am spinning a line with which I shall some day catch the world ; but I do not play with the Sea . '
And he went on spinning his line .
Now there is also a Rat up in the Moon who always bites the old Fisherman 's line as fast as it is made , and the Eldest Magician said to him , ` Ho !
Rat of the Moon , are you playing with the Sea ? '
And the Rat said , ' I am too busy biting through the line that this old Fisherman is spinning .
I do not play with the Sea . '
And he went on biting the line .
Then the little girl-daughter put up her little soft brown arms with the beautiful white shell bracelets and said , ' O Eldest Magician !
when my father here talked to you at the Very Beginning , and I leaned upon his shoulder while the beasts were being taught their plays , one beast went away naughtily into the Sea before you had taught him his play .
And the Eldest Magician said , ` How wise are little children who see and are silent !
What was the beast like ? '
And the little girl-daughter said , ` He was round and he was flat ; and his eyes grew upon stalks ; and he walked sideways like this ; and he was covered with strong armour upon his back . '
And the Eldest Magician said , ` How wise are little children who speak truth !
Now I know where Pau Amma went .
Give me the paddle ! '
So he took the paddle ; but there was no need to paddle , for the water flowed steadily past all the islands till they came to the place called Pusat Tasek -- the Heart of the Sea -- where the great hollow is that leads down to the heart of the world , and in that hollow grows the Wonderful Tree , Pauh Janggi , that bears the magic twin nuts .
Then the Eldest Magician slid his arm up to the shoulder through the deep warm water , and under the roots of the Wonderful Tree he touched the broad back of Pau Amma the Crab .
And Pau Amma settled down at the touch , and all the Sea rose up as water rises in a basin when you put your hand into it .
` Ah ! '
said the Eldest Magician .
` Now I know who has been playing with the Sea ; ' and he called out , ` What are you doing , Pau Amma ? '
And Pau Amma , deep down below , answered , ` Once a day and once a night I go out to look for my food .
Once a day and once a night I return .
Leave me alone . '
Then the Eldest Magician said , ` Listen , Pau Amma .
When you go out from your cave the waters of the Sea pour down into Pusat Tasek , and all the beaches of all the islands are left bare , and the little fish die , and Raja Moyang Kaban , the King of the Elephants , his legs are made muddy .
When you come back and sit in Pusat Tasek , the waters of the Sea rise , and half the little islands are drowned , and the Man 's house is flooded , and Raja Abdullah , the King of the Crocodiles , his mouth is filled with the salt water .
Then Pau Amma , deep down below , laughed and said , ' I did not know I was so important .
Henceforward I will go out seven times a day , and the waters shall never be still . '
And the Eldest Magician said , ' I can not make you play the play you were meant to play , Pau Amma , because you escaped me at the Very Beginning ; but if you are not afraid , come up and we will talk about it . ' '
I am not afraid , ' said Pau Amma , and he rose to the top of the sea in the moonlight .
There was nobody in the world so big as Pau Amma -- for he was the King Crab of all Crabs .
Not a common Crab , but a King Crab .
One side of his great shell touched the beach at Sarawak ; the other touched the beach at Pahang ; and he was taller than the smoke of three volcanoes !
As he rose up through the branches of the Wonderful Tree he tore off one of the great twin fruits -- the magic double kernelled nuts that make people young , -- and the little girl-daughter saw it bobbing alongside the canoe , and pulled it in and began to pick out the soft eyes of it with her little golden scissors .
` Now , ' said the Magician , ` make a Magic , Pau Amma , to show that you are really important . '
Pau Amma rolled his eyes and waved his legs , but he could only stir up the Sea , because , though he was a King Crab , he was nothing more than a Crab , and the Eldest Magician laughed .
` You are not so important after all , Pau Amma , ' he said .
` Now , let me try , ' and he made a Magic with his left hand -- with just the little finger of his left hand -- and -- lo and behold , Best Beloved , Pau Amma 's hard , blue-green-black shell fell off him as a husk falls off a cocoa-nut , and Pau Amma was left all soft -- soft as the little crabs that you sometimes find on the beach , Best Beloved .
` Indeed , you are very important , ' said the Eldest Magician .
` Shall I ask the Man here to cut you with kris ?
Shall I send for Raja Moyang Kaban , the King of the Elephants , to pierce you with his tusks , or shall I call Raja Abdullah , the King of the Crocodiles , to bite you ? '
And Pau Amma said , ' I am ashamed !
Give me back my hard shell and let me go back to Pusat Tasek , and I will only stir out once a day and once a night to get my food . '
And the Eldest Magician said , ` No , Pau Amma , I will not give you back your shell , for you will grow bigger and prouder and stronger , and perhaps you will forget your promise , and you will play with the Sea once more .
Then Pau Amma said , ` What shall I do ?
I am so big that I can only hide in Pusat Tasek , and if I go anywhere else , all soft as I am now , the sharks and the dogfish will eat me .
And if I go to Pusat Tasek , all soft as I am now , though I may be safe , I can never stir out to get my food , and so I shall die . '
Then he waved his legs and lamented .
` Listen , Pau Amma , ' said the Eldest Magician . '
I can not make you play the play you were meant to play , because you escaped me at the Very Beginning ; but if you choose , I can make every stone and every hole and every bunch of weed in all the seas a safe Pusat Tasek for you and your children for always . '
Then Pau Amma said , ` That is good , but I do not choose yet .
Look !
there is that Man who talked to you at the Very Beginning .
If he had not taken up your attention I should not have grown tired of waiting and run away , and all this would never have happened .
What will he do for me ? '
And the Man said , ` If you choose , I will make a Magic , so that both the deep water and the dry ground will be a home for you and your children -- so that you shall be able to hide both on the land and in the sea . '
And Pau Amma said , ' I do not choose yet .
Look !
there is that girl who saw me running away at the Very Beginning .
If she had spoken then , the Eldest Magician would have called me back , and all this would never have happened .
What will she do for me ? '
And the little girl-daughter said , ` This is a good nut that I am eating .
If you choose , I will make a Magic and I will give you this pair of scissors , very sharp and strong , so that you and your children can eat cocoa-nuts like this all day long when you come up from the Sea to the land ; or you can dig a Pusat Tasek for yourself with the scissors that belong to you when there is no stone or hole near by ; and when the earth is too hard , by the help of these same scissors you can run up a tree . '
And Pau Amma said , ' I do not choose yet , for , all soft as I am , these gifts would not help me .
Give me back my shell , O Eldest Magician , and then I will play your play . '
And the Eldest Magician said , ' I will give it back , Pau Amma , for eleven months of the year ; but on the twelfth month of every year it shall grow soft again , to remind you and all your children that I can make magics , and to keep you humble , Pau Amma ; for I see that if you can run both under the water and on land , you will grow too bold ; and if you can climb trees and crack nuts and dig holes with your scissors , you will grow too greedy , Pau Amma . '
Then Pau Amma thought a little and said , ' I have made my choice .
I will take all the gifts . '
Then the Eldest Magician made a Magic with the right hand , with all five fingers of his right hand , and lo and behold , Best Beloved , Pau Amma grew smaller and smaller and smaller , till at last there was only a little green crab swimming in the water alongside the canoe , crying in a very small voice , ` Give me the scissors ! '
And the girl-daughter picked him up on the palm of her little brown hand , and sat him in the bottom of the canoe and gave him her scissors , and he waved them in his little arms , and opened them and shut them and snapped them , and said , ' I can eat nuts .
I can crack shells .
I can dig holes .
I can climb trees .
I can breathe in the dry air , and I can find a safe Pusat Tasek under every stone .
I did not know I was so important .
Kun ? '
-LRB- Is this right ? -RRB-
` Payah-kun , ' said the Eldest Magician , and he laughed and gave him his blessing ; and little Pau Amma scuttled over the side of the canoe into the water ; and he was so tiny that he could have hidden under the shadow of a dry leaf on land or of a dead shell at the bottom of the sea .
` Was that well done ? '
said the Eldest Magician .
` Yes , ' said the Man .
` But now we must go back to Perak , and that is a weary way to paddle .
If we had waited till Pau Amma had gone out of Pusat Tasek and come home , the water would have carried us there by itself . '
` You are lazy , ' said the Eldest Magician .
` So your children shall be lazy .
They shall be the laziest people in the world .
They shall be called the Malazy -- the lazy people ; ' and he held up his finger to the Moon and said , ' O Fisherman , here is the Man too lazy to row home .
Pull his canoe home with your line , Fisherman . '
` No , ' said the Man .
` If I am to be lazy all my days , let the Sea work for me twice a day for ever .
That will save paddling . '
And the Eldest Magician laughed and said , ` Payah kun ' -LRB- That is right -RRB- .
And the Rat of the Moon stopped biting the line ; and the Fisherman let his line down till it touched the Sea , and he pulled the whole deep Sea along , past the Island of Bintang , past Singapore , past Malacca , past Selangor , till the canoe whirled into the mouth of the Perak River again .
Kun ? '
said the Fisherman of the Moon .
` Payah kun , ' said the Eldest Magician .
` See now that you pull the Sea twice a day and twice a night for ever , so that the Malazy fishermen may be saved paddling .
But be careful not to do it too hard , or I shall make a magic on you as I did to Pau Amma . '
Then they all went up the Perak River and went to bed , Best Beloved .
Now listen and attend !
From that day to this the Moon has always pulled the sea up and down and made what we call the tides .
Sometimes the Fisher of the Sea pulls a little too hard , and then we get spring tides ; and sometimes he pulls a little too softly , and then we get what are called neap-tides ; but nearly always he is careful , because of the Eldest Magician .
And Pau Amma ?
You can see when you go to the beach , how all Pau Amma 's babies make little Pusat Taseks for themselves under every stone and bunch of weed on the sands ; you can see them waving their little scissors ; and in some parts of the world they truly live on the dry land and run up the palm trees and eat cocoa-nuts , exactly as the girl-daughter promised .
But once a year all Pau Ammas must shake off their hard armour and be soft-to remind them of what the Eldest Magician could do .
And so it is n't fair to kill or hunt Pau Amma 's babies just because old Pau Amma was stupidly rude a very long time ago .
Oh yes !
And Pau Amma 's babies hate being taken out of their little Pusat Taseks and brought home in pickle-bottles .
That is why they nip you with their scissors , and it serves you right !
CHINA-GOING P 's and O 's Pass Pau Amma 's playground close , And his Pusat Tasek lies Near the track of most B.I. 's .
U.Y.K. and N.D.L. Know Pau Amma 's home as well As the fisher of the Sea knows ` Bens , ' M.M. 's , and Rubattinos .
But -LRB- and this is rather queer -RRB- A.T.L. 's can not come here ; O. and O. and D.O.A. Must go round another way .
Orient , Anchor , Bibby , Hall , Never go that way at all .
U.C.S. would have a fit If it found itself on it .
And if ` Beavers ' took their cargoes To Penang instead of Lagos , Or a fat Shaw-Savill bore Passengers to Singapore , Or a White Star were to try a Little trip to Sourabaya , Or a B.S.A. went on Past Natal to Cheribon , Then great Mr. Lloyds would come With a wire and drag them home !
You 'll know what my riddle means When you 've eaten mangosteens .
Or if you ca n't wait till then , ask them to let you have the outside page of the Times ; turn over to page 2 where it is marked ` Shipping ' on the top left hand ; then take the Atlas -LRB- and that is the finest picture-book in the world -RRB- and see how the names of the places that the steamers go to fit into the names of the places on the map .
Any steamer-kiddy ought to be able to do that ; but if you ca n't read , ask some one to show it you .
THE CAT THAT WALKED BY HIMSELF HEAR and attend and listen ; for this befell and behappened and became and was , O my Best Beloved , when the Tame animals were wild .
The Dog was wild , and the Horse was wild , and the Cow was wild , and the Sheep was wild , and the Pig was wild -- as wild as wild could be -- and they walked in the Wet Wild Woods by their wild lones .
But the wildest of all the wild animals was the Cat .
He walked by himself , and all places were alike to him .
Of course the Man was wild too .
He was dreadfully wild .
He did n't even begin to be tame till he met the Woman , and she told him that she did not like living in his wild ways .
She picked out a nice dry Cave , instead of a heap of wet leaves , to lie down in ; and she strewed clean sand on the floor ; and she lit a nice fire of wood at the back of the Cave ; and she hung a dried wild-horse skin , tail-down , across the opening of the Cave ; and she said , ` Wipe you feet , dear , when you come in , and now we 'll keep house . '
That night , Best Beloved , they ate wild sheep roasted on the hot stones , and flavoured with wild garlic and wild pepper ; and wild duck stuffed with wild rice and wild fenugreek and wild coriander ; and marrow-bones of wild oxen ; and wild cherries , and wild grenadillas .
Then the Man went to sleep in front of the fire ever so happy ; but the Woman sat up , combing her hair .
She took the bone of the shoulder of mutton -- the big fat blade-bone -- and she looked at the wonderful marks on it , and she threw more wood on the fire , and she made a Magic .
She made the First Singing Magic in the world .
Out in the Wet Wild Woods all the wild animals gathered together where they could see the light of the fire a long way off , and they wondered what it meant .
Then Wild Horse stamped with his wild foot and said , ' O my Friends and O my Enemies , why have the Man and the Woman made that great light in that great Cave , and what harm will it do us ? '
Wild Dog lifted up his wild nose and smelled the smell of roast mutton , and said , ' I will go up and see and look , and say ; for I think it is good .
Cat , come with me . '
` Nenni ! '
said the Cat . '
I am the Cat who walks by himself , and all places are alike to me .
I will not come . '
` Then we can never be friends again , ' said Wild Dog , and he trotted off to the Cave .
But when he had gone a little way the Cat said to himself , ` All places are alike to me .
Why should I not go too and see and look and come away at my own liking . '
So he slipped after Wild Dog softly , very softly , and hid himself where he could hear everything .
When Wild Dog reached the mouth of the Cave he lifted up the dried horse-skin with his nose and sniffed the beautiful smell of the roast mutton , and the Woman , looking at the blade-bone , heard him , and laughed , and said , ` Here comes the first .
Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , what do you want ? '
Wild Dog said , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , what is this that smells so good in the Wild Woods ? '
Then the Woman picked up a roasted mutton-bone and threw it to Wild Dog , and said , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , taste and try . '
Wild Dog gnawed the bone , and it was more delicious than anything he had ever tasted , and he said , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , give me another . '
The Woman said , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , help my Man to hunt through the day and guard this Cave at night , and I will give you as many roast bones as you need . '
` Ah ! '
said the Cat , listening .
` This is a very wise Woman , but she is not so wise as I am . '
Wild Dog crawled into the Cave and laid his head on the Woman 's lap , and said , ' O my Friend and Wife of my Friend , I will help Your Man to hunt through the day , and at night I will guard your Cave . '
` Ah ! '
said the Cat , listening .
` That is a very foolish Dog . '
And he went back through the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail , and walking by his wild lone .
But he never told anybody .
When the Man waked up he said , ` What is Wild Dog doing here ? '
And the Woman said , ` His name is not Wild Dog any more , but the First Friend , because he will be our friend for always and always and always .
Take him with you when you go hunting . '
Next night the Woman cut great green armfuls of fresh grass from the water-meadows , and dried it before the fire , so that it smelt like new-mown hay , and she sat at the mouth of the Cave and plaited a halter out of horse-hide , and she looked at the shoulder of mutton-bone -- at the big broad blade-bone -- and she made a Magic .
She made the Second Singing Magic in the world .
Out in the Wild Woods all the wild animals wondered what had happened to Wild Dog , and at last Wild Horse stamped with his foot and said , ' I will go and see and say why Wild Dog has not returned .
Cat , come with me . '
` Nenni ! '
said the Cat . '
I am the Cat who walks by himself , and all places are alike to me .
I will not come . '
But all the same he followed Wild Horse softly , very softly , and hid himself where he could hear everything .
When the Woman heard Wild Horse tripping and stumbling on his long mane , she laughed and said , ` Here comes the second .
Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods what do you want ? '
Wild Horse said , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , where is Wild Dog ? '
The Woman laughed , and picked up the blade-bone and looked at it , and said , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , you did not come here for Wild Dog , but for the sake of this good grass . '
And Wild Horse , tripping and stumbling on his long mane , said , ` That is true ; give it me to eat . '
The Woman said , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , bend your wild head and wear what I give you , and you shall eat the wonderful grass three times a day . '
` Ah , ' said the Cat , listening , ` this is a clever Woman , but she is not so clever as I am . '
Wild Horse bent his wild head , and the Woman slipped the plaited hide halter over it , and Wild Horse breathed on the Woman 's feet and said , ' O my Mistress , and Wife of my Master , I will be your servant for the sake of the wonderful grass . '
` Ah , ' said the Cat , listening , ` that is a very foolish Horse . '
And he went back through the Wet Wild Woods , waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone .
But he never told anybody .
When the Man and the Dog came back from hunting , the Man said , ` What is Wild Horse doing here ? '
And the Woman said , ` His name is not Wild Horse any more , but the First Servant , because he will carry us from place to place for always and always and always .
Ride on his back when you go hunting .
Next day , holding her wild head high that her wild horns should not catch in the wild trees , Wild Cow came up to the Cave , and the Cat followed , and hid himself just the same as before ; and everything happened just the same as before ; and the Cat said the same things as before , and when Wild Cow had promised to give her milk to the Woman every day in exchange for the wonderful grass , the Cat went back through the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone , just the same as before .
But he never told anybody .
And when the Man and the Horse and the Dog came home from hunting and asked the same questions same as before , the Woman said , ` Her name is not Wild Cow any more , but the Giver of Good Food .
She will give us the warm white milk for always and always and always , and I will take care of her while you and the First Friend and the First Servant go hunting .
Next day the Cat waited to see if any other Wild thing would go up to the Cave , but no one moved in the Wet Wild Woods , so the Cat walked there by himself ; and he saw the Woman milking the Cow , and he saw the light of the fire in the Cave , and he smelt the smell of the warm white milk .
Cat said , ' O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy , where did Wild Cow go ? '
The Woman laughed and said , ` Wild Thing out of the Wild Woods , go back to the Woods again , for I have braided up my hair , and I have put away the magic blade-bone , and we have no more need of either friends or servants in our Cave .
Cat said , ' I am not a friend , and I am not a servant .
I am the Cat who walks by himself , and I wish to come into your cave . '
Woman said , ` Then why did you not come with First Friend on the first night ? '
Cat grew very angry and said , ` Has Wild Dog told tales of me ? '
Then the Woman laughed and said , ` You are the Cat who walks by himself , and all places are alike to you .
Your are neither a friend nor a servant .
You have said it yourself .
Go away and walk by yourself in all places alike . '
Then Cat pretended to be sorry and said , ` Must I never come into the Cave ?
Must I never sit by the warm fire ?
Must I never drink the warm white milk ?
You are very wise and very beautiful .
You should not be cruel even to a Cat . '
Woman said , ' I knew I was wise , but I did not know I was beautiful .
So I will make a bargain with you .
If ever I say one word in your praise you may come into the Cave . '
` And if you say two words in my praise ? '
said the Cat . '
I never shall , ' said the Woman , ` but if I say two words in your praise , you may sit by the fire in the Cave . '
` And if you say three words ? '
said the Cat . '
I never shall , ' said the Woman , ` but if I say three words in your praise , you may drink the warm white milk three times a day for always and always and always . '
Then the Cat arched his back and said , ` Now let the Curtain at the mouth of the Cave , and the Fire at the back of the Cave , and the Milk-pots that stand beside the Fire , remember what my Enemy and the Wife of my Enemy has said . '
And he went away through the Wet Wild Woods waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone .
That night when the Man and the Horse and the Dog came home from hunting , the Woman did not tell them of the bargain that she had made with the Cat , because she was afraid that they might not like it .
Cat went far and far away and hid himself in the Wet Wild Woods by his wild lone for a long time till the Woman forgot all about him .
Only the Bat -- the little upside-down Bat -- that hung inside the Cave , knew where Cat hid ; and every evening Bat would fly to Cat with news of what was happening .
One evening Bat said , ` There is a Baby in the Cave .
He is new and pink and fat and small , and the Woman is very fond of him . '
` Ah , ' said the Cat , listening , ` but what is the Baby fond of ? '
` He is fond of things that are soft and tickle , ' said the Bat .
` He is fond of warm things to hold in his arms when he goes to sleep .
He is fond of being played with .
He is fond of all those things . '
` Ah , ' said the Cat , listening , ` then my time has come . '
Next night Cat walked through the Wet Wild Woods and hid very near the Cave till morning-time , and Man and Dog and Horse went hunting .
The Woman was busy cooking that morning , and the Baby cried and interrupted .
So she carried him outside the Cave and gave him a handful of pebbles to play with .
But still the Baby cried .
Then the Cat put out his paddy paw and patted the Baby on the cheek , and it cooed ; and the Cat rubbed against its fat knees and tickled it under its fat chin with his tail .
And the Baby laughed ; and the Woman heard him and smiled .
Then the Bat -- the little upside-down bat -- that hung in the mouth of the Cave said , ' O my Hostess and Wife of my Host and Mother of my Host 's Son , a Wild Thing from the Wild Woods is most beautifully playing with your Baby . ' '
A blessing on that Wild Thing whoever he may be , ' said the Woman , straightening her back , ` for I was a busy woman this morning and he has done me a service . '
That very minute and second , Best Beloved , the dried horse-skin Curtain that was stretched tail-down at the mouth of the Cave fell down -- whoosh !
-- because it remembered the bargain she had made with the Cat , and when the Woman went to pick it up -- lo and behold !
-- the Cat was sitting quite comfy inside the Cave . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , ' said the Cat , ` it is I : for you have spoken a word in my praise , and now I can sit within the Cave for always and always and always .
But still I am the Cat who walks by himself , and all places are alike to me . '
The Woman was very angry , and shut her lips tight and took up her spinning-wheel and began to spin .
But the Baby cried because the Cat had gone away , and the Woman could not hush it , for it struggled and kicked and grew black in the face . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , ' said the Cat , ` take a strand of the wire that you are spinning and tie it to your spinning-whorl and drag it along the floor , and I will show you a magic that shall make your Baby laugh as loudly as he is now crying . ' '
I will do so , ' said the Woman , ` because I am at my wits ' end ; but I will not thank you for it . '
She tied the thread to the little clay spindle whorl and drew it across the floor , and the Cat ran after it and patted it with his paws and rolled head over heels , and tossed it backward over his shoulder and chased it between his hind-legs and pretended to lose it , and pounced down upon it again , till the Baby laughed as loudly as it had been crying , and scrambled after the Cat and frolicked all over the Cave till it grew tired and settled down to sleep with the Cat in its arms .
` Now , ' said the Cat , ' I will sing the Baby a song that shall keep him asleep for an hour .
And he began to purr , loud and low , low and loud , till the Baby fell fast asleep .
The Woman smiled as she looked down upon the two of them and said , ` That was wonderfully done .
No question but you are very clever , O Cat . '
That very minute and second , Best Beloved , the smoke of the fire at the back of the Cave came down in clouds from the roof -- puff !
-- because it remembered the bargain she had made with the Cat , and when it had cleared away -- lo and behold !
-- the Cat was sitting quite comfy close to the fire . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of My Enemy , ' said the Cat , ` it is I , for you have spoken a second word in my praise , and now I can sit by the warm fire at the back of the Cave for always and always and always .
But still I am the Cat who walks by himself , and all places are alike to me . '
Then the Woman was very very angry , and let down her hair and put more wood on the fire and brought out the broad blade-bone of the shoulder of mutton and began to make a Magic that should prevent her from saying a third word in praise of the Cat .
It was not a Singing Magic , Best Beloved , it was a Still Magic ; and by and by the Cave grew so still that a little wee-wee mouse crept out of a corner and ran across the floor . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , ' said the Cat , ` is that little mouse part of your magic ? '
` Ouh !
Chee !
No indeed ! '
said the Woman , and she dropped the blade-bone and jumped upon the footstool in front of the fire and braided up her hair very quick for fear that the mouse should run up it .
` Ah , ' said the Cat , watching , ` then the mouse will do me no harm if I eat it ? '
` No , ' said the Woman , braiding up her hair , ` eat it quickly and I will ever be grateful to you . '
Cat made one jump and caught the little mouse , and the Woman said , ' A hundred thanks .
Even the First Friend is not quick enough to catch little mice as you have done .
You must be very wise . '
That very moment and second , O Best Beloved , the Milk-pot that stood by the fire cracked in two pieces -- ffft -- because it remembered the bargain she had made with the Cat , and when the Woman jumped down from the footstool -- lo and behold !
-- the Cat was lapping up the warm white milk that lay in one of the broken pieces . '
O my Enemy and Wife of my Enemy and Mother of my Enemy , said the Cat , ` it is I ; for you have spoken three words in my praise , and now I can drink the warm white milk three times a day for always and always and always .
But still I am the Cat who walks by himself , and all places are alike to me . '
Then the Woman laughed and set the Cat a bowl of the warm white milk and said , ' O Cat , you are as clever as a man , but remember that your bargain was not made with the Man or the Dog , and I do not know what they will do when they come home . '
` What is that to me ? '
said the Cat .
` If I have my place in the Cave by the fire and my warm white milk three times a day I do not care what the Man or the Dog can do . '
That evening when the Man and the Dog came into the Cave , the Woman told them all the story of the bargain while the Cat sat by the fire and smiled .
Then the Man said , ` Yes , but he has not made a bargain with me or with all proper Men after me . '
Then he took off his two leather boots and he took up his little stone axe -LRB- that makes three -RRB- and he fetched a piece of wood and a hatchet -LRB- that is five altogether -RRB- , and he set them out in a row and he said , ` Now we will make our bargain .
If you do not catch mice when you are in the Cave for always and always and always , I will throw these five things at you whenever I see you , and so shall all proper Men do after me . '
` Ah , ' said the Woman , listening , ` this is a very clever Cat , but he is not so clever as my Man . '
The Cat counted the five things -LRB- and they looked very knobby -RRB- and he said , ' I will catch mice when I am in the Cave for always and always and always ; but still I am the Cat who walks by himself , and all places are alike to me . '
` Not when I am near , ' said the Man .
` If you had not said that last I would have put all these things away for always and always and always ; but I am now going to throw my two boots and my little stone axe -LRB- that makes three -RRB- at you whenever I meet you .
And so shall all proper Men do after me ! '
Then the Dog said , ` Wait a minute .
He has not made a bargain with me or with all proper Dogs after me . '
And he showed his teeth and said , ` If you are not kind to the Baby while I am in the Cave for always and always and always , I will hunt you till I catch you , and when I catch you I will bite you .
And so shall all proper Dogs do after me . '
` Ah , ' said the Woman , listening , ` this is a very clever Cat , but he is not so clever as the Dog . '
Cat counted the Dog 's teeth -LRB- and they looked very pointed -RRB- and he said , ' I will be kind to the Baby while I am in the Cave , as long as he does not pull my tail too hard , for always and always and always .
But still I am the Cat that walks by himself , and all places are alike to me . '
` Not when I am near , ' said the Dog .
` If you had not said that last I would have shut my mouth for always and always and always ; but now I am going to hunt you up a tree whenever I meet you .
And so shall all proper Dogs do after me . '
Then the Man threw his two boots and his little stone axe -LRB- that makes three -RRB- at the Cat , and the Cat ran out of the Cave and the Dog chased him up a tree ; and from that day to this , Best Beloved , three proper Men out of five will always throw things at a Cat whenever they meet him , and all proper Dogs will chase him up a tree .
But the Cat keeps his side of the bargain too .
He will kill mice and he will be kind to Babies when he is in the house , just as long as they do not pull his tail too hard .
But when he has done that , and between times , and when the moon gets up and night comes , he is the Cat that walks by himself , and all places are alike to him .
Then he goes out to the Wet Wild Woods or up the Wet Wild Trees or on the Wet Wild Roofs , waving his wild tail and walking by his wild lone .
PUSSY can sit by the fire and sing , Pussy can climb a tree , Or play with a silly old cork and string To ` muse herself , not me .
But I like Binkie my dog , because He Lnows how to behave ; So , Binkie 's the same as the First Friend was , And I am the Man in the Cave .
Pussy will play man-Friday till It 's time to wet her paw And make her walk on the window-sill -LRB- For the footprint Crusoe saw -RRB- ; Then she fluffles her tail and mews , And scratches and wo n't attend .
But Binkie will play whatever I choose , And he is my true First Friend .
Pussy will rub my knees with her head Pretending she loves me hard ; But the very minute I go to my bed Pussy runs out in the yard , And there she stays till the morning-light ; So I know it is only pretend ; But Binkie , he snores at my feet all night , And he is my Firstest Friend !
THE BUTTERFLY THAT STAMPED THIS , O my Best Beloved , is a story -- a new and a wonderful story -- a story quite different from the other stories -- a story about The Most Wise Sovereign Suleiman-bin-Daoud -- Solomon the Son of David .
There are three hundred and fifty-five stories about Suleiman-bin-Daoud ; but this is not one of them .
It is not the story of the Lapwing who found the Water ; or the Hoopoe who shaded Suleimanbin-Daoud from the heat .
It is not the story of the Glass Pavement , or the Ruby with the Crooked Hole , or the Gold Bars of Balkis .
It is the story of the Butterfly that Stamped .
Now attend all over again and listen !
Suleiman-bin-Daoud was wise .
He understood what the beasts said , what the birds said , what the fishes said , and what the insects said .
He understood what the rocks said deep under the earth when they bowed in towards each other and groaned ; and he understood what the trees said when they rustled in the middle of the morning .
He understood everything , from the bishop on the bench to the hyssop on the wall , and Balkis , his Head Queen , the Most Beautiful Queen Balkis , was nearly as wise as he was .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud was strong .
Upon the third finger of the right hand he wore a ring .
When he turned it once , Afrits and Djinns came Out of the earth to do whatever he told them .
When he turned it twice , Fairies came down from the sky to do whatever he told them ; and when he turned it three times , the very great angel Azrael of the Sword came dressed as a water-carrier , and told him the news of the three worlds , Above -- Below -- and Here .
And yet Suleiman-bin-Daoud was not proud .
He very seldom showed off , and when he did he was sorry for it .
Once he tried to feed all the animals in all the world in one day , but when the food was ready an Animal came out of the deep sea and ate it up in three mouthfuls .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud was very surprised and said , ' O Animal , who are you ? '
And the Animal said , ' O King , live for ever !
I am the smallest of thirty thousand brothers , and our home is at the bottom of the sea .
We heard that you were going to feed all the animals in all the world , and my brothers sent me to ask when dinner would be ready . '
Suleiman-bin-Daoud was more surprised than ever and said , ' O Animal , you have eaten all the dinner that I made ready for all the animals in the world . '
And the Animal said , ' O King , live for ever , but do you really call that a dinner ?
Where I come from we each eat twice as much as that between meals . '
Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud fell flat on his face and said , ' O Animal !
I gave that dinner to show what a great and rich king I was , and not because I really wanted to be kind to the animals .
Now I am ashamed , and it serves me right .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud was a really truly wise man , Best Beloved .
After that he never forgot that it was silly to show off ; and now the real story part of my story begins .
He married ever so many wifes .
He married nine hundred and ninety-nine wives , besides the Most Beautiful Balkis ; and they all lived in a great golden palace in the middle of a lovely garden with fountains .
He did n't really want nine-hundred and ninety-nine wives , but in those days everybody married ever so many wives , and of course the King had to marry ever so many more just to show that he was the King .
Some of the wives were nice , but some were simply horrid , and the horrid ones quarrelled with the nice ones and made them horrid too , and then they would all quarrel with Suleiman-bin-Daoud , and that was horrid for him .
But Balkis the Most Beautiful never quarrelled with Suleiman-bin-Daoud .
She loved him too much .
She sat in her rooms in the Golden Palace , or walked in the Palace garden , and was truly sorry for him .
Of course if he had chosen to turn his ring on his finger and call up the Djinns and the Afrits they would have magicked all those nine hundred and ninety-nine quarrelsome wives into white mules of the desert or greyhounds or pomegranate seeds ; but Suleiman-bin-Daoud thought that that would be showing off .
So , when they quarrelled too much , he only walked by himself in one part of the beautiful Palace gardens and wished he had never been born .
One day , when they had quarrelled for three weeks -- all nine hundred and ninety-nine wives together -- Suleiman-bin-Daoud went out for peace and quiet as usual ; and among the orange trees he met Balkis the Most Beautiful , very sorrowful because Suleiman-bin-Daoud was so worried .
And she said to him , ' O my Lord and Light of my Eyes , turn the ring upon your finger and show these Queens of Egypt and Mesopotamia and Persia and China that you are the great and terrible King . '
But Suleiman-bin-Daoud shook his head and said , ' O my Lady and Delight of my Life , remember the Animal that came out of the sea and made me ashamed before all the animals in all the world because I showed off .
Now , if I showed off before these Queens of Persia and Egypt and Abyssinia and China , merely because they worry me , I might be made even more ashamed than I have been . '
And Balkis the Most Beautiful said , ' O my Lord and Treasure of my Soul , what will you do ? '
And Suleiman-bin-Daoud said , ' O my Lady and Content of my Heart , I shall continue to endure my fate at the hands of these nine hundred and ninety-nine Queens who vex me with their continual quarrelling . '
So he went on between the lilies and the loquats and the roses and the cannas and the heavy-scented ginger-plants that grew in the garden , till he came to the great camphor-tree that was called the Camphor Tree of Suleiman-bin-Daoud .
But Balkis hid among the tall irises and the spotted bamboos and the red lillies behind the camphor-tree , so as to be near her own true love , Suleiman-bin-Daoud .
Presently two Butterflies flew under the tree , quarrelling .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud heard one say to the other , ' I wonder at your presumption in talking like this to me .
Do n't you know that if I stamped with my foot all Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's Palace and this garden here would immediately vanish in a clap of thunder . '
Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud forgot his nine hundred and ninety-nine bothersome wives , and laughed , till the camphor-tree shook , at the Butterfly 's boast .
And he held out his finger and said , ` Little man , come here . '
The Butterfly was dreadfully frightened , but he managed to fly up to the hand of Suleiman-bin-Daoud , and clung there , fanning himself .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud bent his head and whispered very softly , ` Little man , you know that all your stamping would n't bend one blade of grass .
What made you tell that awful fib to your wife ?
-- for doubtless she is your wife . '
The Butterfly looked at Suleiman-bin-Daoud and saw the most wise King 's eye twinkle like stars on a frosty night , and he picked up his courage with both wings , and he put his head on one side and said , ' O King , live for ever .
She is my wife ; and you know what wives are like .
Suleiman-bin-Daoud smiled in his beard and said , ` Yes , I know , little brother .
` One must keep them in order somehow , said the Butterfly , and she has been quarrelling with me all the morning .
I said that to quiet her . '
And Suleiman-bin-Daoud said , ` May it quiet her .
Go back to your wife , little brother , and let me hear what you say . '
Back flew the Butterfly to his wife , who was all of a twitter behind a leaf , and she said , ` He heard you !
Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself heard you ! '
` Heard me ! '
said the Butterfly .
` Of course he did .
I meant him to hear me . '
` And what did he say ?
Oh , what did he say ? '
` Well , ' said the Butterfly , fanning himself most importantly , ` between you and me , my dear -- of course I do n't blame him , because his Palace must have cost a great deal and the oranges are just ripening , -- he asked me not to stamp , and I promised I would n't . '
` Gracious ! '
said his wife , and sat quite quiet ; but Suleiman-bin-Daoud laughed till the tears ran down his face at the impudence of the bad little Butterfly .
Balkis the Most Beautiful stood up behind the tree among the red lilies and smiled to herself , for she had heard all this talk .
She thought , ` If I am wise I can yet save my Lord from the persecutions of these quarrelsome Queens , ' and she held out her finger and whispered softly to the Butterfly 's Wife , ` Little woman , come here . '
Up flew the Butterfly 's Wife , very frightened , and clung to Balkis 's white hand .
Balkis bent her beautiful head down and whispered , ` Little woman , do you believe what your husband has just said ? '
The Butterfly 's Wife looked at Balkis , and saw the most beautiful Queen 's eyes shining like deep pools with starlight on them , and she picked up her courage with both wings and said , ' O Queen , be lovely for ever .
You know what men-folk are like . '
And the Queen Balkis , the Wise Balkis of Sheba , put her hand to her lips to hide a smile and said , ` Little sister , I know . '
` They get angry , ' said the Butterfly 's Wife , fanning herself quickly , ` over nothing at all , but we must humour them , O Queen .
They never mean half they say .
If it pleases my husband to believe that I believe he can make Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's Palace disappear by stamping his foot , I 'm sure I do n't care .
He 'll forget all about it to-morrow . '
` Little sister , ' said Balkis , ` you are quite right ; but next time he begins to boast , take him at his word .
Ask him to stamp , and see what will happen .
We know what men-folk are like , do n't we ?
He 'll be very much ashamed . '
Away flew the Butterfly 's Wife to her husband , and in five minutes they were quarrelling worse than ever .
` Remember ! '
said the Butterfly .
` Remember what I can do if I stamp my foot . ' '
I do n't believe you one little bit , ' said the Butterfly 's Wife . '
I should very much like to see it done .
Suppose you stamp now . ' '
I promised Suleiman-bin-Daoud that I would n't , ' said the Butterfly , ` and I do n't want to break my promise . '
` It would n't matter if you did , ' said his wife .
` You could n't bend a blade of grass with your stamping .
I dare you to do it , ' she said .
Stamp !
Stamp !
Stamp ! '
Suleiman-bin-Daoud , sitting under the camphor-tree , heard every word of this , and he laughed as he had never laughed in his life before .
He forgot all about his Queens ; he forgot all about the Animal that came out of the sea ; he forgot about showing off .
He just laughed with joy , and Balkis , on the other side of the tree , smiled because her own true love was so joyful .
Presently the Butterfly , very hot and puffy , came whirling back under the shadow of the camphor-tree and said to Suleiman , ` She wants me to stamp !
She wants to see what will happen , O Suleiman-bin-Daoud !
You know I ca n't do it , and now she 'll never believe a word I say .
She 'll laugh at me to the end of my days ! '
` No , little brother , ' said Suleiman-bin-Daoud , ` she will never laugh at you again , ' and he turned the ring on his finger -- just for the little Butterfly 's sake , not for the sake of showing off , -- and , lo and behold , four huge Djinns came out of the earth !
` Slaves , ' said Suleiman-bin-Daoud , ` when this gentleman on my finger ' -LRB- that was where the impudent Butterfly was sitting -RRB- ` stamps his left front forefoot you will make my Palace and these gardens disappear in a clap of thunder .
When he stamps again you will bring them back carefully . '
` Now , little brother , ' he said , ` go back to your wife and stamp all you 've a mind to . '
Away flew the Butterfly to his wife , who was crying , ' I dare you to do it !
I dare you to do it !
Stamp !
Stamp now !
Stamp ! '
Balkis saw the four vast Djinns stoop down to the four corners of the gardens with the Palace in the middle , and she clapped her hands softly and said , ` At last Suleiman-bin-Daoud will do for the sake of a Butterfly what he ought to have done long ago for his own sake , and the quarrelsome Queens will be frightened ! '
The the butterfly stamped .
The Djinns jerked the Palace and the gardens a thousand miles into the air : there was a most awful thunder-clap , and everything grew inky-black .
The Butterfly 's Wife fluttered about in the dark , crying , ` Oh , I 'll be good !
I 'm so sorry I spoke .
Only bring the gardens back , my dear darling husband , and I 'll never contradict again . '
The Butterfly was nearly as frightened as his wife , and Suleiman-bin-Daoud laughed so much that it was several minutes before he found breath enough to whisper to the Butterfly , ` Stamp again , little brother .
Give me back my Palace , most great magician . '
` Yes , give him back his Palace , ' said the Butterfly 's Wife , still flying about in the dark like a moth .
` Give him back his Palace , and do n't let 's have any more horrid.magic . '
` Well , my dear , ' said the Butterfly as bravely as he could , ` you see what your nagging has led to .
Of course it does n't make any difference to me -- I 'm used to this kind of thing -- but as a favour to you and to Suleiman-bin-Daoud I do n't mind putting things right . '
So he stamped once more , and that instant the Djinns let down the Palace and the gardens , without even a bump .
The sun shone on the dark-green orange leaves ; the fountains played among the pink Egyptian lilies ; the birds went on singing , and the Butterfly 's Wife lay on her side under the camphor-tree waggling her wings and panting , ` Oh , I 'll be good !
I 'll be good ! '
Suleiman-bin-Daolld could hardly speak for laughing .
He leaned back all weak and hiccoughy , and shook his finger at the Butterfly and said , ' O great wizard , what is the sense of returning to me my Palace if at the same time you slay me with mirth ! '
Then came a terrible noise , for all the nine hundred and ninety-nine Queens ran out of the Palace shrieking and shouting and calling for their babies .
They hurried down the great marble steps below the fountain , one hundred abreast , and the Most Wise Balkis went statelily forward to meet them and said , ` What is your trouble , O Queens ? '
They stood on the marble steps one hundred abreast and shouted , ` What is our trouble ?
We were living peacefully in our golden palace , as is our custom , when upon a sudden the Palace disappeared , and we were left sitting in a thick and noisome darkness ; and it thundered , and Djinns and Afrits moved about in the darkness !
That is our trouble , O Head Queen , and we are most extremely troubled on account of that trouble , for it was a troublesome trouble , unlike any trouble we have known . '
Then Balkis the Most Beautiful Queen -- Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's Very Best Beloved -- Queen that was of Sheba and Sable and the Rivers of the Gold of the South -- from the Desert of Zinn to the Towers of Zimbabwe -- Balkis , almost as wise as the Most Wise Suleiman-bin-Daoud himself , said , ` It is nothing , O Queens !
A Butterfly has made complaint against his wife because she quarrelled with him , and it has pleased our Lord Suleiman-bin-Daoud to teach her a lesson in low-speaking and humbleness , for that is counted a virtue among the wives of the butterflies . '
Then up and spoke an Egyptian Queen -- the daughter of a Pharoah -- and she said , ` Our Palace can not be plucked up by the roots like a leek for the sake of a little insect .
No !
Suleiman-bin-Daoud must be dead , and what we heard and saw was the earth thundering and darkening at the news . '
Then Balkis beckoned that bold Queen without looking at her , and said to her and to the others , ` Come and see . '
They came down the marble steps , one hundred abreast , and beneath his camphor-tree , still weak with laughing , they saw the Most Wise King Suleiman-bin-Daoud rocking back and forth with a Butterfly on either hand , and they heard him say , ' O wife of my brother in the air , remember after this , to please your husband in all things , lest he be provoked to stamp his foot yet again ; for he has said that he is used to this magic , and he is most eminently a great magician -- one who steals away the very Palace of Suleirnan-bin-Daoud himself .
Go in peace , little folk ! '
And he kissed them on the wings , and they flew away .
Then all the Queens except Balkis -- the Most Beautiful and Splendid Balkis , who stood apart smiling -- fell flat on their faces , for they said , ` If these things are done when a Butterfly is displeased with his wife , what shall be done to us who have vexed our King with our loud-speaking and open quarrelling through many days ? '
Then they put their veils over their heads , and they put their hands over their mouths , and they tiptoed back to the Palace most mousy-quiet .
Then Balkis -- The Most Beautiful and Excellent Balkis -- went forward through the red lilies into the shade of the camphor-tree and laid her hand upon Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's shoulder and said , ' O my Lord and Treasure of my Soul , rejoice , for we have taught the Queens of Egypt and Ethiopia and Abyssinia and Persia and India and China with a great and a memorable teaching . '
And Suleiman-bin-Daoud , still looking after the Butterflies where they played in the sunlight , said , ' O my Lady and Jewel of my Felicity , when did this happen ?
For I have been jesting with a Butterfly ever since I came into the garden . '
And he told Balkis what he had done .
Balkis -- The tender and Most Lovely Balkis -- said , ' O my Lord and Regent of my Existence , I hid behind the camphor-tree and saw it all .
It was I who told the Butterfly 's Wife to ask the Butterfly to stamp , because I hoped that for the sake of the jest my Lord would make some great magic and that the Queens would see it and be frightened . '
And she told him what the Queens had said and seen and thought .
Then Suleiman-bin-Daoud rose up from his seat under the camphor-tree , and stretched his arms and rejoiced and said , ' O my Lady and Sweetener of my Days , know that if I had made a magic against my Queens for the sake of pride or anger , as I made that feast for all the animals , I should certainly have been put to shame .
But by means of your wisdom I made the magic for the sake of a jest and for the sake of a little Butterfly , and -- behold -- it has also delivered me from the vexations of my vexatious wives !
Tell me , therefore , O my Lady and Heart of my Heart , how did you come to be so wise ? '
And Balkis the Queen , beautiful and tall , looked up into Suleiman-bin-Daoud 's eyes and put her head a little on one side , just like the Butterfly , and said , ` First , O my Lord , because I loved you ; and secondly , O my Lord , because I know what women-folk are . '
Then they went up to the Palace and lived happily ever afterwards .
But was n't it clever of Balkis ?
THERE was never a Queen like Balkis , From here to the wide world 's end ; But Balkis tailed to a butterfly As you would talk to a friend .
There was never a King like Solomon , Not since the world began ; But Solomon talked to a butterfly As a man would talk to a man .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___Kim.txt.out
Chapter 1 O ye who tread the Narrow Way By Tophet-flare to Judgment Day , Be gentle when ` the heathen ' pray To Buddha at Kamakura !
Buddha at Kamakura .
He sat , in defiance of municipal orders , astride the gun Zam Zammah on her brick platform opposite the old Ajaib-Gher -- the Wonder House , as the natives call the Lahore Museum .
Who hold Zam-Zammah , that ` fire-breathing dragon ' , hold the Punjab , for the great green-bronze piece is always first of the conqueror 's loot .
There was some justification for Kim -- he had kicked Lala Dinanath 's boy off the trunnions -- since the English held the Punjab and Kim was English .
Though he was burned black as any native ; though he spoke the vernacular by preference , and his mother-tongue in a clipped uncertain sing-song ; though he consorted on terms of perfect equality with the small boys of the bazar ; Kim was white -- a poor white of the very poorest .
The half-caste woman who looked after him -LRB- she smoked opium , and pretended to keep a second-hand furniture shop by the square where the cheap cabs wait -RRB- told the missionaries that she was Kim 's mother 's sister ; but his mother had been nursemaid in a Colonel 's family and had married Kimball O'Hara , a young colour-sergeant of the Mavericks , an Irish regiment .
He afterwards took a post on the Sind , Punjab , and Delhi Railway , and his Regiment went home without him .
The wife died of cholera in Ferozepore , and O'Hara fell to drink and loafing up and down the line with the keen-eyed three-year-old baby .
Societies and chaplains , anxious for the child , tried to catch him , but O'Hara drifted away , till he came across the woman who took opium and learned the taste from her , and died as poor whites die in India .
His estate at death consisted of three papers -- one he called his ` ne varietur ' because those words were written below his signature thereon , and another his ` clearance-certificate ' .
The third was Kim 's birth-certificate .
Those things , he was used to say , in his glorious opium-hours , would yet make little Kimball a man .
On no account was Kim to part with them , for they belonged to a great piece of magic -- such magic as men practised over yonder behind the Museum , in the big blue-and-white Jadoo-Gher -- the Magic House , as we name the Masonic Lodge .
It would , he said , all come right some day , and Kim 's horn would be exalted between pillars -- monstrous pillars -- of beauty and strength .
The Colonel himself , riding on a horse , at the head of the finest Regiment in the world , would attend to Kim -- little Kim that should have been better off than his father .
Nine hundred first-class devils , whose God was a Red Bull on a green field , would attend to Kim , if they had not forgotten O'Hara -- poor O'Hara that was gang-foreman on the Ferozepore line .
Then he would weep bitterly in the broken rush chair on the veranda .
So it came about after his death that the woman sewed parchment , paper , and birth-certificate into a leather amulet-case which she strung round Kim 's neck .
` And some day , ' she said , confusedly remembering O'Hara 's prophecies , ` there will come for you a great Red Bull on a green field , and the Colonel riding on his tall horse , yes , and ' dropping into English -- ` nine hundred devils . '
` Ah , ' said Kim , ' I shall remember .
A Red Bull and a Colonel on a horse will come , but first , my father said , will come the two men making ready the ground for these matters .
That is how my father said they always did ; and it is always so when men work magic . '
If the woman had sent Kim up to the local Jadoo-Gher with those papers , he would , of course , have been taken over by the Provincial Lodge , and sent to the Masonic Orphanage in the Hills ; but what she had heard of magic she distrusted .
Kim , too , held views of his own .
As he reached the years of indiscretion , he learned to avoid missionaries and white men of serious aspect who asked who he was , and what he did .
For Kim did nothing with an immense success .
True , he knew the wonderful walled city of Lahore from the Delhi Gate to the outer Fort Ditch ; was hand in glove with men who led lives stranger than anything Haroun al Raschid dreamed of ; and he lived in a life wild as that of the Arabian Nights , but missionaries and secretaries of charitable societies could not see the beauty of it .
His nickname through the wards was ` Little Friend of all the World ' ; and very often , being lithe and inconspicuous , he executed commissions by night on the crowded housetops for sleek and shiny young men of fashion .
It was intrigue , -- of course he knew that much , as he had known all evil since he could speak , -- but what he loved was the game for its own sake -- the stealthy prowl through the dark gullies and lanes , the crawl up a waterpipe , the sights and sounds of the women 's world on the flat roofs , and the headlong flight from housetop to housetop under cover of the hot dark .
Then there were holy men , ash-smeared fakirs by their brick shrines under the trees at the riverside , with whom he was quite familiar -- greeting them as they returned from begging-tours , and , when no one was by , eating from the same dish .
The woman who looked after him insisted with tears that he should wear European clothes -- trousers , a shirt and a battered hat .
Kim found it easier to slip into Hindu or Mohammedan garb when engaged on certain businesses .
One of the young men of fashion -- he who was found dead at the bottom of a well on the night of the earthquake -- had once given him a complete suit of Hindu kit , the costume of a lowcaste street boy , and Kim stored it in a secret place under some baulks in Nila Ram 's timber-yard , beyond the Punjab High Court , where the fragrant deodar logs lie seasoning after they have driven down the Ravi .
When there was business or frolic afoot , Kim would use his properties , returning at dawn to the veranda , all tired out from shouting at the heels of a marriage procession , or yelling at a Hindu festival .
Sometimes there was food in the house , more often there was not , and then Kim went out again to eat with his native friends .
As he drummed his heels against Zam-Zammah he turned now and again from his king-of-the-castle game with little Chota Lal and Abdullah the sweetmeat-seller 's son , to make a rude remark to the native policeman on guard over rows of shoes at the Museum door .
The big Punjabi grinned tolerantly : he knew Kim of old .
So did the water-carrier , sluicing water on the dry road from his goat-skin bag .
So did Jawahir Singh , the Museum carpenter , bent over new packing-cases .
So did everybody in sight except the peasants from the country , hurrying up to the Wonder House to view the things that men made in their own province and elsewhere .
The Museum was given up to Indian arts and manufactures , and anybody who sought wisdom could ask the Curator to explain .
` Off !
Off !
Let me up ! '
cried Abdullah , climbing up Zam-Zammah 's wheel .
` Thy father was a pastry-cook , Thy mother stole the ghi , ' sang Kim .
` All Mussalmans fell off Zam-Zammah long ago ! '
` Let me up ! '
shrilled little Chota Lal in his gilt-embroidered cap .
His father was worth perhaps half a million sterling , but India is the only democratic land in the world .
` The Hindus fell off Zam-Zammah too .
The Mussalmans pushed them off .
Thy father was a pastry-cook -- ' He stopped ; for there shuffled round the corner , from the roaring Motee Bazar , such a man as Kim , who thought he knew all castes , had never seen .
He was nearly six feet high , dressed in fold upon fold of dingy stuff like horse-blanketing , and not one fold of it could Kim refer to any known trade or profession .
At his belt hung a long open-work iron pencase and a wooden rosary such as holy men wear .
On his head was a gigantic sort of tam-o ' - shanter .
His face was yellow and wrinkled , like that of Fook Shing , the Chinese bootmaker in the bazar .
His eyes turned up at the corners and looked like little slits of onyx .
` Who is that ? '
said Kim to his companions .
` Perhaps it is a man , ' said Abdullah , finger in mouth , staring .
` Without doubt , ' returned Kim ; ` but he is no man of India that I have ever seen . ' '
A priest , perhaps , ' said Chota Lal , spying the rosary .
` See !
He goes into the Wonder House ! '
` Nay , nay , ' said the policeman , shaking his head . '
I do not understand your talk . '
The constable spoke Punjabi . '
O Friend of all the World , what does he say ? '
` Send him hither , ' said Kim , dropping from Zam-Zammah , flourishing his bare heels .
` He is a foreigner , and thou art a buffalo . '
The man turned helplessly and drifted towards the boys .
He was old , and his woollen gaberdine still reeked of the stinking artemisia of the mountain passes . '
O Children , what is that big house ? '
he said in very fair Urdu .
` The Ajaib-Gher , the Wonder House ! '
Kim gave him no title -- such as Lala or Mian .
He could not divine the man 's creed .
` Ah !
The Wonder House !
Can any enter ? '
` It is written above the door -- all can enter . '
` Without payment ? ' '
I go in and out .
I am no banker , ' laughed Kim .
` Alas !
I am an old man .
I did not know . '
Then , fingering his rosary , he half turned to the Museum .
` What is your caste ?
Where is your house ?
Have you come far ? '
Kim asked . '
I came by Kulu -- from beyond the Kailas -- but what know you ?
From the Hills where ' -- he sighed -- ` the air and water are fresh and cool . '
` Aha !
Khitai -LSB- a Chinaman -RSB- , ' said Abdullah proudly .
Fook Shing had once chased him out of his shop for spitting at the joss above the boots .
` Pahari -LSB- a hillman -RSB- , ' said little Chota Lal .
` Aye , child -- a hillman from hills thou ` lt never see .
Didst hear of Bhotiyal -LSB- Tibet -RSB- ?
I am no Khitai , but a Bhotiya -LSB- Tibetan -RSB- , since you must know -- a lama -- or , say , a guru in your tongue . ' '
A guru from Tibet , ' said Kim . '
I have not seen such a man .
They be Hindus in Tibet , then ? '
` We be followers of the Middle Way , living in peace in our lamasseries , and I go to see the Four Holy Places before I die .
Now do you , who are children , know as much as I do who am old . '
He smiled benignantly on the boys .
` Hast thou eaten ? '
He fumbled in his bosom and drew forth a worn , wooden begging-bowl .
The boys nodded .
All priests of their acquaintance begged . '
I do not wish to eat yet . '
He turned his head like an old tortoise in the sunlight .
` Is it true that there are many images in the Wonder House of Lahore ? '
He repeated the last words as one making sure of an address .
` That is true , ' said Abdullah .
` It is full of heathen busts .
Thou also art an idolater . '
` Never mind him , ' said .
Kim .
` That is the Government 's house and there is no idolatry in it , but only a Sahib with a white beard .
Come with me and I will show . '
` Strange priests eat boys , ' whispered Chota Lal .
` And he is a stranger and a but-parast -LSB- idolater -RSB- , ' said Abdullah , the Mohammedan .
Kim laughed .
` He is new .
Run to your mothers ' laps , and be safe .
Come ! '
Kim clicked round the self-registering turnstile ; the old man followed and halted amazed .
In the entrance-hall stood the larger figures of the Greco-Buddhist sculptures done , savants know how long since , by forgotten workmen whose hands were feeling , and not unskilfully , for the mysteriously transmitted Grecian touch .
There were hundreds of pieces , friezes of figures in relief , fragments of statues and slabs crowded with figures that had encrusted the brick walls of the Buddhist stupas and viharas of the North Country and now , dug up and labelled , made the pride of the Museum .
In open-mouthed wonder the lama turned to this and that , and finally checked in rapt attention before a large alto-relief representing a coronation or apotheosis of the Lord Buddha .
The Master was represented seated on a lotus the petals of which were so deeply undercut as to show almost detached .
Round Him was an adoring hierarchy of kings , elders , and old-time Buddhas .
Below were lotus-covered waters with fishes and water-birds .
Two butterfly-winged devas held a wreath over His head ; above them another pair supported an umbrella surmounted by the jewelled headdress of the Bodhisat .
` The Lord !
The Lord !
It is Sakya Muni himself , ' the lama half sobbed ; and under his breath began the wonderful Buddhist invocation : To Him the Way , the Law , apart , Whom Maya held beneath her heart , Ananda 's Lord , the Bodhisat .
` And He is here !
The Most Excellent Law is here also .
My pilgrimage is well begun .
And what work !
What work ! '
` Yonder is the Sahib . '
said Kim , and dodged sideways among the cases of the arts and manufacturers wing .
A white-bearded Englishman was looking at the lama , who gravely turned and saluted him and after some fumbling drew forth a note-book and a scrap of paper .
` Yes , that is my name , ' smiling at the clumsy , childish print .
` One of us who had made pilgrimage to the Holy Places -- he is now Abbot of the Lung-Cho Monastery -- gave it me , ' stammered the lama .
` He spoke of these . '
His lean hand moved tremulously round .
` Welcome , then , O lama from Tibet .
Here be the images , and I am here ' -- he glanced at the lama 's face -- ` to gather knowledge .
Come to my office awhile . '
The old man was trembling with excitement .
The office was but a little wooden cubicle partitioned off from the sculpture-lined gallery .
Kim laid himself down , his ear against a crack in the heat-split cedar door , and , following his instinct , stretched out to listen and watch .
Most of the talk was altogether above his head .
The lama , haltingly at first , spoke to the Curator of his own lamassery , the Such-zen , opposite the Painted Rocks , four months ' march away .
The Curator brought out a huge book of photos and showed him that very place , perched on its crag , overlooking the gigantic valley of many-hued strata .
` Ay , ay ! '
The lama mounted a pair of horn-rimmed spectacles of Chinese work .
` Here is the little door through which we bring wood before winter .
And thou -- the English know of these things ?
He who is now Abbot of Lung-Cho told me , but I did not believe .
The Lord -- the Excellent One -- He has honour here too ?
And His life is known ? '
` It is all carven upon the stones .
Come and see , if thou art rested . '
Out shuffled the lama to the main hall , and , the Curator beside him , went through the collection with the reverence of a devotee and the appreciative instinct of a craftsman .
Incident by incident in the beautiful story he identified on the blurred stone , puzzled here and there by the unfamiliar Greek convention , but delighted as a child at each new trove .
Where the sequence failed , as in the Annunciation , the Curator supplied it from his mound of books -- French and German , with photographs and reproductions .
Here was the devout Asita , the pendant of Simeon in the Christian story , holding the Holy Child on his knee while mother and father listened ; and here were incidents in the legend of the cousin Devadatta .
Here was the wicked woman who accused the Master of impurity , all confounded ; here was the teaching in the Deer-park ; the miracle that stunned the fire-worshippers ; here was the Bodhisat in royal state as a prince ; the miraculous birth ; the death at Kusinagara , where the weak disciple fainted ; while there were almost countless repetitions of the meditation under the Bodhi tree ; and the adoration of the alms-bowl was everywhere .
In a few minutes the Curator saw that his guest was no mere bead-telling mendicant , but a scholar of parts .
And they went at it all over again , the lama taking snuff , wiping his spectacles , and talking at railway speed in a bewildering mixture of Urdu and Tibetan .
He had heard of the travels of the Chinese pilgrims , Fu-Hiouen and Hwen-Tsiang , and was anxious to know if there was any translation of their record .
He drew in his breath as he turned helplessly over the pages of Beal and Stanislas Julien . ''
Tis all here .
A treasure locked . '
Then he composed himself reverently to listen to fragments hastily rendered into Urdu .
For the first time he heard of the labours of European scholars , who by the help of these and a hundred other documents have identified the Holy Places of Buddhism .
Then he was shown a mighty map , spotted and traced with yellow .
The brown finger followed the Curator 's pencil from point to point .
Here was Kapilavastu , here the Middle Kingdom , and here Mahabodhi , the Mecca of Buddhism ; and here was Kusinagara , sad place of the Holy One 's death .
The old man bowed his head over the sheets in silence for a while , and the Curator lit another pipe .
Kim had fallen asleep .
When he waked , the talk , still in spate , was more within his comprehension .
` And thus it was , O Fountain of Wisdom , that I decided to go to the Holy Places which His foot had trod -- to the Birthplace , even to Kapila ; then to Mahabodhi , which is Buddh Gaya -- to the Monastery -- to the Deer-park -- to the place of His death . '
The lama lowered his voice .
` And I come here alone .
For five -- seven -- eighteen -- forty years it was in my mind that the Old Law was not well followed ; being overlaid , as thou knowest , with devildom , charms , and idolatry .
Even as the child outside said but now .
Ay , even as the child said , with but-parasti . '
` So it comes with all faiths . '
` Thinkest thou ?
The books of my lamassery I read , and they were dried pith ; and the later ritual with which we of the Reformed Law have cumbered ourselves -- that , too , had no worth to these old eyes .
Even the followers of the Excellent One are at feud on feud with one another .
It is all illusion .
Ay , maya , illusion .
But I have another desire ' -- the seamed yellow face drew within three inches of the Curator , and the long forefinger-nail tapped on the table .
` Your scholars , by these books , have followed the Blessed Feet in all their wanderings ; but there are things which they have not sought out .
I know nothing -- nothing do I know -- but I go to free myself from the Wheel of Things by a broad and open road . '
He smiled with most simple triumph .
` As a pilgrim to the Holy Places I acquire merit .
But there is more .
Listen to a true thing .
When our gracious Lord , being as yet a youth , sought a mate , men said , in His father 's Court , that He was too tender for marriage .
Thou knowest ? '
The Curator nodded , wondering what would come next .
` So they made the triple trial of strength against all comers .
And at the test of the Bow , our Lord first breaking that which they gave Him , called for such a bow as none might bend .
Thou knowest ? '
` It is written .
I have read . '
` And , overshooting all other marks , the arrow passed far and far beyond sight .
At the last it fell ; and , where it touched earth , there broke out a stream which presently became a River , whose nature , by our Lord 's beneficence , and that merit He acquired ere He freed himself , is that whoso bathes in it washes away all taint and speckle of sin . '
` So it is written , ' said the Curator sadly .
The lama drew a long breath .
` Where is that River ?
Fountain of Wisdom , where fell the arrow ? '
` Alas , my brother , I do not know , ' said the Curator .
` Nay , if it please thee to forget -- the one thing only that thou hast not told me .
Surely thou must know ?
See , I am an old man !
I ask with my head between thy feet , O Fountain of Wisdom .
We know He drew the bow !
We know the arrow fell !
We know the stream gushed !
Where , then , is the River ?
My dream told me to find it .
So I came .
I am here .
But where is the River ? '
` If I knew , think you I would not cry it aloud ? '
` By it one attains freedom from the Wheel of Things , ' the lama went on , unheeding .
` The River of the Arrow !
Think again !
Some little stream , maybe -- dried in the heats ?
But the Holy One would never so cheat an old man . ' '
I do not know .
I do not know . '
The lama brought his thousand-wrinkled face once more a handsbreadth from the Englishman 's . '
I see thou dost not know .
Not being of the Law , the matter is hid from thee . '
` Ay -- hidden -- hidden . '
` We are both bound , thou and I , my brother .
But I ' -- he rose with a sweep of the soft thick drapery -- ' I go to cut myself free .
Come also ! ' '
I am bound , ' said the Curator .
` But whither goest thou ? '
` First to Kashi -LSB- Benares -RSB- : where else ?
There I shall meet one of the pure faith in a Jain temple of that city .
He also is a Seeker in secret , and from him haply I may learn .
Maybe he will go with me to Buddh Gaya .
Thence north and west to Kapilavastu , and there will I seek for the River .
Nay , I will seek everywhere as I go -- for the place is not known where the arrow fell . '
` And how wilt thou go ?
It is a far cry to Delhi , and farther to Benares . '
` By road and the trains .
From Pathankot , having left the Hills , I came hither in a te-rain .
It goes swiftly .
At first I was amazed to see those tall poles by the side of the road snatching up and snatching up their threads , ' -- he illustrated the stoop and whirl of a telegraph-pole flashing past the train .
` But later , I was cramped and desired to walk , as I am used . '
` And thou art sure of thy road ? '
said the Curator .
` Oh , for that one but asks a question and pays money , and the appointed persons despatch all to the appointed place .
That much I knew in my lamassery from sure report , ' said the lama proudly .
` And when dost thou go ? '
The Curator smiled at the mixture of old-world piety and modern progress that is the note of India today .
` As soon as may be .
I follow the places of His life till I come to the River of the Arrow .
There is , moreover , a written paper of the hours of the trains that go south . '
` And for food ? '
Lamas , as a rule , have good store of money somewhere about them , but the Curator wished to make sure .
` For the journey , I take up the Master 's begging-bowl .
Yes .
Even as He went so go I , forsaking the ease of my monastery .
There was with me when I left the hills a chela -LSB- disciple -RSB- who begged for me as the Rule demands , but halting in Kulu awhile a fever took him and he died .
I have now no chela , but I will take the alms-bowl and thus enable the charitable to acquire merit . '
He nodded his head valiantly .
Learned doctors of a lamassery do not beg , but the lama was an enthusiast in this quest .
` Be it so , ' said the Curator , smiling .
` Suffer me now to acquire merit .
We be craftsmen together , thou and I .
Here is a new book of white English paper : here be sharpened pencils two and three -- thick and thin , all good for a scribe .
Now lend me thy spectacles . '
The Curator looked through them .
They were heavily scratched , but the power was almost exactly that of his own pair , which he slid into the lama 's hand , saying : ` Try these . ' '
A feather !
A very feather upon the face . '
The old man turned his head delightedly and wrinkled up his nose .
` How scarcely do I feel them !
How clearly do I see ! '
` They be bilaur -- crystal -- and will never scratch .
May they help thee to thy River , for they are thine . ' '
I will take them and the pencils and the white note-book , ' said the lama , ` as a sign of friendship between priest and priest -- and now -- ' He fumbled at his belt , detached the open-work iron pincers , and laid it on the Curator 's table .
` That is for a memory between thee and me -- my pencase .
It is something old -- even as I am . '
It was a piece of ancient design , Chinese , of an iron that is not smelted these days ; and the collector 's heart in the Curator 's bosom had gone out to it from the first .
For no persuasion would the lama resume his gift .
` When I return , having found the River , I will bring thee a written picture of the Padma Samthora such as I used to make on silk at the lamassery .
Yes -- and of the Wheel of Life , ' he chuckled , ` for we be craftsmen together , thou and I. ' The Curator would have detained him : they are few in the world who still have the secret of the conventional brush-pen Buddhist pictures which are , as it were , half written and half drawn .
But the lama strode out , head high in air , and pausing an instant before the great statue of a Bodhisat in meditation , brushed through the turnstiles .
Kim followed like a shadow .
What he had overheard excited him wildly .
This man was entirely new to all his experience , and he meant to investigate further , precisely as he would have investigated a new building or a strange festival in Lahore city .
The lama was his trove , and he purposed to take possession .
Kim 's mother had been Irish , too .
The old man halted by Zam-Zammah and looked round till his eye fell on Kim .
The inspiration of his pilgrimage had left him for awhile , and he felt old , forlorn , and very empty .
` Do not sit under that gun , ' said the policeman loftily .
` Huh !
Owl ! '
was Kim 's retort on the lama 's behalf .
` Sit under that gun if it please thee .
When didst thou steal the milkwoman 's slippers , Dunnoo ? '
That was an utterly unfounded charge sprung on the spur of the moment , but it silenced Dunnoo , who knew that Kim 's clear yell could call up legions of bad bazaar boys if need arose .
` And whom didst thou worship within ? '
said Kim affably , squatting in the shade beside the lama . '
I worshipped none , child .
I bowed before the Excellent Law . '
Kim accepted this new God without emotion .
He knew already a few score .
` And what dost thou do ? ' '
I beg .
I remember now it is long since I have eaten or drunk .
What is the custom of charity in this town ?
In silence , as we do of Tibet , or speaking aloud ? '
` Those who beg in silence starve in silence , ' said Kim , quoting a native proverb .
The lama tried to rise , but sank back again , sighing for his disciple , dead in far-away Kulu .
Kim watched head to one side , considering and interested .
` Give me the bowl .
I know the people of this city -- all who are charitable .
Give , and I will bring it back filled . '
Simply as a child the old man handed him the bowl .
` Rest , thou .
I know the people . '
He trotted off to the open shop of a kunjri , a low-caste vegetable-seller , which lay opposite the belt-tramway line down the Motee Bazar .
She knew Kim of old .
` Oho , hast thou turned yogi with thy begging-bowl ? '
she cried .
` Nay . '
said Kim proudly .
` There is a new priest in the city -- a man such as I have never seen . '
` Old priest -- young tiger , ' said the woman angrily . '
I am tired of new priests !
They settle on our wares like flies .
Is the father of my son a well of charity to give to all who ask ? '
` No , ' said Kim .
` Thy man is rather yagi -LSB- bad-tempered -RSB- than yogi -LSB- a holy man -RSB- .
But this priest is new .
The Sahib in the Wonder House has talked to him like a brother .
O my mother , fill me this bowl .
He waits . '
` That bowl indeed !
That cow-bellied basket !
Thou hast as much grace as the holy bull of Shiv .
He has taken the best of a basket of onions already , this morn ; and forsooth , I must fill thy bowl .
He comes here again . '
The huge , mouse-coloured Brahmini bull of the ward was shouldering his way through the many-coloured crowd , a stolen plantain hanging out of his mouth .
He headed straight for the shop , well knowing his privileges as a sacred beast , lowered his head , and puffed heavily along the line of baskets ere making his choice .
Up flew Kim 's hard little heel and caught him on his moist blue nose .
He snorted indignantly , and walked away across the tram-rails , his hump quivering with rage .
` See !
I have saved more than the bowl will cost thrice over .
Now , mother , a little rice and some dried fish atop -- yes , and some vegetable curry . '
A growl came out of the back of the shop , where a man lay .
` He drove away the bull , ' said the woman in an undertone .
` It is good to give to the poor . '
She took the bowl and returned it full of hot rice .
` But my yogi is not a cow , ' said Kim gravely , making a hole with his fingers in the top of the mound . '
A little curry is good , and a fried cake , and a morsel of conserve would please him , I think . '
` It is a hole as big as thy head , ' said the woman fretfully .
But she filled it , none the less , with good , steaming vegetable curry , clapped a fried cake atop , and a morsel of clarified butter on the cake , dabbed a lump of sour tamarind conserve at the side ; and Kim looked at the load lovingly .
` That is good .
When I am in the bazar the bull shall not come to this house .
He is a bold beggar-man . '
` And thou ? '
laughed the woman .
` But speak well of bulls .
Hast thou not told me that some day a Red Bull will come out of a field to help thee ?
Now hold all straight and ask for the holy man 's blessing upon me .
Perhaps , too , he knows a cure for my daughter 's sore eyes .
Ask .
him that also , O thou Little Friend of all the World . '
But Kim had danced off ere the end of the sentence , dodging pariah dogs and hungry acquaintances .
` Thus do we beg who know the way of it , ' said he proudly to the lama , who opened his eyes at the contents of the bowl .
` Eat now and -- I will eat with thee .
Ohe , bhisti ! '
he called to the water-carrier , sluicing the crotons by the Museum .
` Give water here .
We men are thirsty . '
` We men ! '
said the bhisti , laughing .
` Is one skinful enough for such a pair ?
Drink , then , in the name of the Compassionate . '
He loosed a thin stream into Kim 's hands , who drank native fashion ; but the lama must needs pull out a cup from his inexhaustible upper draperies and drink ceremonially .
` Pardesi -LSB- a foreigner -RSB- , ' Kim explained , as the old man delivered in an unknown tongue what was evidently a blessing .
They ate together in great content , clearing the beggingbowl .
Then the lama took snuff from a portentous wooden snuff-gourd , fingered his rosary awhile , and so dropped into the easy sleep of age , as the shadow of Zam-Zammah grew long .
Kim loafed over to the nearest tobacco-seller , a rather lively young Mohammedan woman , and begged a rank cigar of the brand that they sell to students of the Punjab University who copy English customs .
Then he smoked and thought , knees to chin , under the belly of the gun , and the outcome of his thoughts was a sudden and stealthy departure in the direction of Nila Ram 's timber-yard .
The lama did not wake till the evening life of the city had begun with lamp-lighting and the return of white-robed clerks and subordinates from the Government offices .
He stared dizzily in all directions , but none looked at him save a Hindu urchin in a dirty turban and Isabella-coloured clothes .
Suddenly he bowed his head on his knees and wailed .
` What is this ? '
said the boy , standing before him .
` Hast thou been robbed ? '
` It is my new chela -LSB- disciple -RSB- that is gone away from me , and I know not where he is . '
` And what like of man was thy disciple ? '
` It was a boy who came to me in place of him who died , on account of the merit which I had gained when I bowed before the Law within there . '
He pointed towards the Museum .
` He came upon me to show me a road which I had lost .
He led me into the Wonder House , and by his talk emboldened me to speak to the Keeper of the Images , so that I was cheered and made strong .
And when I was faint with hunger he begged for me , as would a chela for his teacher .
Suddenly was he sent .
Suddenly has he gone away .
It was in my mind to have taught him the Law upon the road to Benares . '
Kim stood amazed at this , because he had overheard the talk in the Museum , and knew that the old man was speaking the truth , which is a thing a native on the road seldom presents to a stranger .
` But I see now that he was but sent for a purpose .
By this I know that I shall find a certain River for which I seek . '
` The River of the Arrow ? '
said Kim , with a superior smile .
` Is this yet another Sending ? '
cried the lama .
` To none have I spoken of my search , save to the Priest of the Images .
Who art thou ? '
` Thy chela , ' said Kim simply , sitting on his heels . '
I have never seen anyone like to thee in all this my life .
I go with thee to Benares .
And , too , I think that so old a man as thou , speaking the truth to chance-met people at dusk , is in great need of a disciple . '
` But the River -- the River of the Arrow ? '
` Oh , that I heard when thou wast speaking to the Englishman .
I lay against the door . '
The lama sighed . '
I thought thou hadst been a guide permitted .
Such things fall sometimes -- but I am not worthy .
Thou dost not , then , know the River ? '
` Not I , ' Kim laughed uneasily . '
I go to look for -- for a bull -- a Red .
Bull on a green field who shall help me . '
Boylike , if an acquaintance had a scheme , Kim was quite ready with one of his own ; and , boylike , he had really thought for as much as twenty minutes at a time of his father 's prophecy .
` To what , child ? '
said the lama .
` God knows , but so my father told me ' .
I heard thy talk in the Wonder House of all those new strange places in the Hills , and if one so old and so little -- so used to truth-telling -- may go out for the small matter of a river , it seemed to me that I too must go a-travelling .
If it is our fate to find those things we shall find them -- thou , thy River ; and I , my Bull , and the Strong Pillars and some other matters that I forget . '
` It is not pillars but a Wheel from which I would be free , ' said the lama .
` That is all one .
Perhaps they will make me a king , ' said Kim , serenely prepared for anything . '
I will teach thee other and better desires upon the road , ' the lama replied in the voice of authority .
` Let us go to Benares . '
` Not by night .
Thieves are abroad .
Wait till the day . '
` But there is no place to sleep . '
The old man was used to the order of his monastery , and though he slept on the ground , as the Rule decrees , preferred a decency in these things .
` We shall get good lodging at the Kashmir Serai , ' said Kim , laughing at his perplexity . '
I have a friend there .
Come ! '
The hot and crowded bazars blazed with light as they made their way through the press of all the races in Upper India , and the lama mooned through it like a man in a dream .
It was his first experience of a large manufacturing city , and the crowded tram-car with its continually squealing brakes frightened him .
Half pushed , half towed , he arrived at the high gate of the Kashmir Serai : that huge open square over against the railway station , surrounded with arched cloisters , where the camel and horse caravans put up on their return from Central Asia .
Here were all manner of Northern folk , tending tethered ponies and kneeling camels ; loading and unloading bales and bundles ; drawing water for the evening meal at the creaking well-windlasses ; piling grass before the shrieking , wild-eyed stallions ; cuffing the surly caravan dogs ; paying off camel-drivers ; taking on new grooms ; swearing , shouting , arguing , and chaffering in the packed square .
The cloisters , reached by three or four masonry steps , made a haven of refuge around this turbulent sea .
Most of them were rented to traders , as we rent the arches of a viaduct ; the space between pillar and pillar being bricked or boarded off into rooms , which were guarded by heavy wooden doors and cumbrous native padlocks .
Locked doors showed that the owner was away , and a few rude -- sometimes very rude -- chalk or paint scratches told where he had gone .
Thus : ` Lutuf Ullah is gone to Kurdistan . '
Below , in coarse verse : ' O Allah , who sufferest lice to live on the coat of a Kabuli , why hast thou allowed this louse Lutuf to live so long ? '
Kim , fending the lama between excited men and excited beasts , sidled along the cloisters to the far end , nearest therailway station , where Mahbub Ali , the horse-trader , lived when he came in from that mysterious land beyond the Passes of the North .
Kim had had many dealings with Mahbub in his little life , especially between his tenth and his thirteenth year -- and the big burly Afghan , his beard dyed scarlet with lime -LRB- for he was elderly and did not wish his grey hairs to show -RRB- , knew the boy 's value as a gossip .
Sometimes he would tell Kim to watch a man who had nothing whatever to do with horses : to follow him for one whole day and report every soul with whom he talked .
Kim would deliver himself of his tale at evening , and Mahbub would listen without a word or gesture .
It was intrigue of some kind , Kim knew ; but its worth lay in saying nothing whatever to anyone except Mahbub , who gave him beautiful meals all hot from the cookshop at the head of the serai , and once as much as eight annas in money .
` He is here , ' said Kim , hitting a bad-tempered camel on the nose .
` Ohe .
Mahbub Ali ! '
He halted at a dark arch and slipped behind the bewildered lama .
The horse-trader , his deep , embroidered Bokhariot belt unloosed , was lying on a pair of silk carpet saddle-bags , pulling lazily at an immense silver hookah .
He turned his head very slightly at the cry ; and seeing only the tall silent figure , chuckled in his deep chest .
` Allah !
A lama !
A Red Lama !
It is far from Lahore to the Passes .
What dost thou do here ? '
The lama held out the begging-bowl mechanically .
` God 's curse on all unbelievers ! '
said Mahbub . '
I do not give to a lousy Tibetan ; but ask my Baltis over yonder behind the camels .
They may value your blessings .
Oh , horseboys , here is a countryman of yours .
See if he be hungry . '
A shaven , crouching Balti , who had come down with the horses , and who was nominally some sort of degraded Buddhist , fawned upon the priest , and in thick gutturals besought the Holy One to sit at the horseboys ' fire .
` Go ! '
said Kim , pushing him lightly , and the lama strode away , leaving Kim at the edge of the cloister .
` Go ! '
said Mahbub Ali , returning to his hookah .
` Little Hindu , run away .
God 's curse on all unbelievers !
Beg from those of my tail who are of thy faith . '
` Maharaj , ' whined Kim , using the Hindu form of address , and thoroughly enjoying the situation ; ` my father is dead -- my mother is dead -- my stomach is empty . '
` Beg from my men among the horses , I say .
There must be some Hindus in my tail . '
` Oh , Mahbub Ali , but am I a Hindu ? '
said Kim in English .
The trader gave no sign of astonishment , but looked under shaggy eyebrows .
` Little Friend of all the World , ' said he , ` what is this ? '
` Nothing .
I am now that holy man 's disciple ; and we go a pilgrimage together -- to Benares , he says .
He is quite mad , and I am tired of Lahore city .
I wish new air and water . '
` But for whom dost thou work ?
Why come to me ? '
The voice was harsh with suspicion .
` To whom else should I come ?
I have no money .
It is not good to go about without money .
Thou wilt sell many horses to the officers .
They are very fine horses , these new ones : I have seen them .
Give me a rupee , Mahbub Ali , and when I come to my wealth I will give thee a bond and pay . '
` Um ! '
said Mahbub Ali , thinking swiftly .
` Thou hast never before lied to me .
Call that lama -- stand back in the dark . '
` Oh , our tales will agree , ' said Kim , laughing .
` We go to Benares , ' said the lama , as soon as he understood the drift of Mahbub Ali 's questions .
` The boy and I , I go to seek for a certain River . '
` Maybe -- but the boy ? '
` He is my disciple .
He was sent , I think , to guide me to that River .
Sitting under a gun was I when he came suddenly .
Such things have befallen the fortunate to whom guidance was allowed .
But I remember now , he said he was of this world -- a Hindu . '
` And his name ? '
` That I did not ask .
Is he not my disciple ? '
` His country -- his race -- his village ?
Mussalman -- Sikh Hindu -- Jain -- low caste or high ? '
` Why should I ask ?
There is neither high nor low in the Middle Way .
If he is my chela -- does -- will -- can anyone take him from me ?
for , look you , without him I shall not find my River . '
He wagged his head solemnly .
` None shall take him from thee .
Go , sit among my Baltis , ' said Mahbub Ali , and the lama drifted off , soothed by the promise .
` Is he not quite mad ? '
said Kim , coming forward to the light again .
` Why should I lie to thee , Hajji ? '
Mahbub puffed his hookah in silence .
Then he began , almost whispering : ` Umballa is on the road to Benares -- if indeed ye two go there . '
` Tck !
Tck !
I tell thee he does not know how to lie -- as we two know . '
` And if thou wilt carry a message for me as far as Umballa , I will give thee money .
It concerns a horse -- a white stallion which I have sold to an officer upon the last time I returned from the Passes .
But then -- stand nearer and hold up hands as begging -- the pedigree of the white stallion was not fully established , and that officer , who is now at Umballa , bade me make it clear . '
-LRB- Mahbub here described the horse and the appearance of the officer . -RRB-
` So the message to that officer will be : `` The pedigree of the white stallion is fully established . ''
By this will he know that thou comest from me .
He will then say `` What proof hast thou ? ''
and thou wilt answer : `` Mahbub Ali has given me the proof . '' '
` And all for the sake of a white stallion , ' said Kim , with a giggle , his eyes aflame .
` That pedigree I will give thee now -- in my own fashion and some hard words as well . '
A shadow passed behind Kim , and a feeding camel .
Mahbub Ali raised his voice .
` Allah !
Art thou the only beggar in the city ?
Thy mother is dead .
Thy father is dead .
So is it with all of them .
Well , well -- ' He turned as feeling on the floor beside him and tossed a flap of soft , greasy Mussalman bread to the boy .
` Go and lie down among my horseboys for tonight -- thou and the lama .
Tomorrow I may give thee service . '
Kim slunk away , his teeth in the bread , and , as he expected , he found a small wad of folded tissue-paper wrapped in oilskin , with three silver rupees -- enormous largesse .
He smiled and thrust money and paper into his leather amulet-case .
The lama , sumptuously fed by Mahbub 's Baltis , was already asleep in a corner of one of the stalls .
Kim lay down beside him and laughed .
He knew he had rendered a service to Mahbub Ali , and not for one little minute did he believe the tale of the stallion 's pedigree .
But Kim did not suspect that Mahbub Ali , known as one of the best horse-dealers in the Punjab , a wealthy and enterprising trader , whose caravans penetrated far and far into the Back of Beyond , was registered in one of the locked books of the Indian Survey Department as C25 IB .
Twice or thrice yearly C25 would send in a little story , baldly told but most interesting , and generally -- it was checked by the statements of R17 and M4 -- quite true .
It concerned all manner of out-of-the-way mountain principalities , explorers of nationalities other than English , and the guntrade -- was , in brief , a small portion of that vast mass of ` information received ' on which the Indian Government acts .
But , recently , five confederated Kings , who had no business to confederate , had been informed by a kindly Northern Power that there was a leakage of news from their territories into British India .
So those Kings ' Prime Ministers were seriously annoyed and took steps , after the Oriental fashion .
They suspected , among many others , the bullying , red-bearded horsedealer whose caravans ploughed through their fastnesses belly-deep in snow .
At least , his caravan that season had been ambushed and shot at twice on the way down , when Mahbub 's men accounted for three strange ruffians who might , or might not , have been hired for the job .
Therefore Mahbub had avoided halting at the insalubrious city of Peshawur , and had come through without stop to Lahore , where , knowing his country-people , he anticipated curious developments .
And there was that on Mahbub Ali which he did not wish to keep an hour longer than was necessary -- a wad of closely folded tissue-paper , wrapped in oilskin -- an impersonal , unaddressed statement , with five microscopic pin-holes in one corner , that most scandalously betrayed the five confederated Kings , the sympathetic Northern Power , a Hindu banker in Peshawur , a firm of gun-makers in Belgium , and an important , semi-independent Mohammedan ruler to the south .
This last was R17 's work , which Mahbub had picked up beyond the Dora Pass and was carrying in for R17 , who , owing to circumstances over which he had no control , could not leave his post of observation .
Dynamite was milky and innocuous beside that report of C25 ; and even an Oriental , with an Oriental 's views of the value of time , could see that the sooner it was in the proper hands the better .
Mahbub had no particular desire to die by violence , because two or three family blood-feuds across the Border hung unfinished on his hands , and when these scores were cleared he intended to settle down as a more or less virtuous citizen .
He had never passed the serai gate since his arrival two days ago , but had been ostentatious in sending telegrams to Bombay , where he banked some of his money ; to Delhi , where a sub-partner of his own clan was selling horses to the agent of a Rajputana state ; and to Umballa , where an Englishman was excitedly demanding the pedigree of a white stallion .
The public letter-writer , who knew English , composed excellent telegrams , such as : ` Creighton , Laurel Bank , Umballa .
Horse is Arabian as already advised .
Sorrowful delayed pedigree which am translating . '
And later to the same address : ` Much sorrowful delay .
Will forward pedigree . '
To his sub-partner at Delhi he wired : ` Lutuf Ullah .
Have wired two thousand rupees your credit Luchman Narain 's bank -- ' This was entirely in the way of trade , but every one of those telegrams was discussed and rediscussed , by parties who conceived themselves to be interested , before they went over to the railway station in charge of a foolish Balti , who allowed all sorts of people to read them on the road .
When , in Mahbub 's own picturesque language , he had muddied the wells of inquiry with the stick of precaution , Kim had dropped on him , sent from Heaven ; and , being as prompt as he was unscrupulous , Mahbub Ali used to taking all sorts of gusty chances , pressed him into service on the spot .
A wandering lama with a low-caste boy-servant might attract a moment 's interest as they wandered about India , the land of pilgrims ; but no one would suspect them or , what was more to the point , rob .
He called for a new light-ball to his hookah , and considered the case .
If the worst came to the worst , and the boy came to harm , the paper would incriminate nobody .
And he would go up to Umballa leisurely and -- at a certain risk of exciting fresh suspicion -- repeat his tale by word of mouth to the people concerned .
But R17 's report was the kernel of the whole affair , and it would be distinctly inconvenient if that failed to come to hand .
However , God was great , and Mahbub Ali felt he had done all he could for the time being .
Kim was the one soul in the world who had never told him a lie .
That would have been a fatal blot on Kim 's character if Mahbub had not known that to others , for his own ends or Mahbub 's business , Kim could lie like an Oriental .
Then Mahbub Ali rolled across the serai to the Gate of the Harpies who paint their eyes and trap the stranger , and was at some pains to call on the one girl who , he had reason to believe , was a particular friend of a smooth-faced Kashmiri pundit who had waylaid his simple Balti in the matter of the telegrams .
It was an utterly foolish thing to do ; because they fell to drinking perfumed brandy against the Law of the Prophet , and Mahbub grew wonderfully drunk , and the gates of his mouth were loosened , and he pursued the Flower of Delight with the feet of intoxication till he fell flat among the cushions , where the Flower of Delight , aided by a smooth-faced Kashmiri pundit , searched him from head to foot most thoroughly .
About the same hour Kim heard soft feet in Mahbub 's deserted stall .
The horse-trader , curiously enough , had left his door unlocked , and his men were busy celebrating their return to India with a whole sheep of Mahbub 's bounty .
A sleek young gentleman from Delhi , armed with a bunch of keys which the Flower had unshackled from the senseless one 's belt , went through every single box , bundle , mat , and saddle-bag in Mahbub 's possession even more systematically than the Flower and the pundit were searching the owner .
` And I think . '
said the Flower scornfully an hour later , one rounded elbow on the snoring carcass , ` that he is no more than a pig of an Afghan horse-dealer , with no thought except women and horses .
Moreover , he may have sent it away by now -- if ever there were such a thing . '
` Nay -- in a matter touching Five Kings it would be next his black heart , ' said the pundit .
` Was there nothing ? '
The Delhi man laughed and resettled his turban as he entered . '
I searched between the soles of his slippers as the Flower searched his clothes .
This is not the man but another .
I leave little unseen . '
` They did not say he was the very man , ' said the pundit thoughtfully .
` They said , `` Look if he be the man , since our counsels are troubled . '' '
` That North country is full of horse-dealers as an old coat of lice .
There is Sikandar Khan , Nur Ali Beg , and Farrukh Shah all heads of kafilas -LSB- caravans -RSB- -- who deal there , ' said the Flower .
` They have not yet come in , ' said the pundit .
` Thou must ensnare them later . '
Phew ! '
said the Flower with deep disgust , rolling Mahbub 's head from her lap . '
I earn my money .
Farrukh Shah is a bear , Ali Beg a swashbuckler , and old Sikandar Khan -- yaie !
Go !
I sleep now .
This swine will not stir till dawn . '
When Mahbub woke , the Flower talked to him severely on the sin of drunkenness .
Asiatics do not wink when they have outmanoeuvred an enemy , but as Mahbub Ali cleared his throat , tightened his belt , and staggered forth under the early morning stars , he came very near to it .
` What a colt 's trick ! '
said he to himself .
` As if every girl in Peshawur did not use it !
But 't was prettily done .
Now God He knows how many more there be upon the Road who have orders to test me -- perhaps with the knife .
So it stands that the boy must go to Umballa -- and by rail -- for the writing is something urgent .
I abide here , following the Flower and drinking wine as an Afghan coper should . '
He halted at the stall next but one to his own .
His men lay there heavy with sleep .
There was no sign of Kim or the lama .
` Up ! '
He stirred a sleeper .
` Whither went those who lay here last even -- the lama and the boy ?
Is aught missing ? '
` Nay , ' grunted the man , ` the old madman rose at second cockcrow saying he would go to Benares , and the young one led him away . '
` The curse of Allah on all unbelievers ! '
said Mahbub heartily , and climbed into his own stall , growling in his beard .
But it was Kim who had wakened the lama -- Kim with one eye laid against a knot-hole in the planking , who had seen the Delhi man 's search through the boxes .
This was no common thief that turned over letters , bills , and saddles -- no mere burglar who ran a little knife sideways into the soles of Mahbub 's slippers , or picked the seams of the saddle-bags so deftly .
At first Kim had been minded to give the alarm -- the long-drawn choor -- choor !
-LSB- thief !
thief ! -RSB-
that sets the serai ablaze of nights ; but he looked more carefully , and , hand on amulet , drew his own conclusions .
` It must be the pedigree of that made-up horse-lie , ' said he , ` the thing that I carry to Umballa .
Better that we go now .
Those who search bags with knives may presently search bellies with knives .
Surely there is a woman behind this .
Hai !
Hai !
in a whisper to the light-sleeping old man .
` Come .
It is time -- time to go to Benares . '
The lama rose obediently , and they passed out of the serai like shadows .
Chapter 2 And whoso will , from Pride released ; Contemning neither creed nor priest , May feel the Soul of all the East .
About him at Kamakura .
Buddha at Kamakura .
They entered the fort-like railway station , black in the end of night ; the electrics sizzling over the goods-yard where they handle the heavy Northern grain-traffic .
` This is the work of devils ! '
said the lama , recoiling from the hollow echoing darkness , the glimmer of rails between the masonry platforms , and the maze of girders above .
He stood in a gigantic stone hall paved , it seemed , with the sheeted dead third-class passengers who had taken their tickets overnight and were sleeping in the waiting-rooms .
All hours of the twenty-four are alike to Orientals , and their passenger traffic is regulated accordingly .
` This is where the fire-carriages come .
One stands behind that hole ' -- Kim pointed to the ticket-office -- ` who will give thee a paper to take thee to Umballa . '
` But we go to Benares , ' he replied petulantly .
` All one .
Benares then .
Quick : she comes ! '
` Take thou the purse . '
The lama , not so well used to trains as he had pretended , started as the 3.25 a.m. south-bound roared in .
The sleepers sprang to life , and the station filled with clamour and shoutings , cries of water and sweetmeat vendors , shouts of native policemen , and shrill yells of women gathering up their baskets , their families , and their husbands .
` It is the train -- only the te-rain .
It will not come here .
Wait ! '
Amazed at the lama 's immense simplicity -LRB- he had handed him a small bag full of rupees -RRB- , Kim asked and paid for a ticket to Umballa .
A sleepy clerk grunted and flung out a ticket to the next station , just six miles distant .
` Nay , ' said Kim , scanning it with a grin .
` This may serve for farmers , but I live in the city of Lahore .
It was cleverly done , Babu .
Now give the ticket to Umballa . '
The Babu scowled and dealt the proper ticket .
` Now another to Amritzar , ' said Kim , who had no notion of spending Mahbub Ali 's money on anything so crude as a paid ride to Umballa .
` The price is so much .
The small money in return is just so much .
I know the ways of the te-rain ... Never did yogi need chela as thou dost , ' he went on merrily to the bewildered lama .
` They would have flung thee out at Mian Mir but for me .
This way !
Come ! '
He returned the money , keeping only one anna in each rupee of the price of the Umballa ticket as his commission -- the immemorial commission of Asia .
The lama jibbed at the open door of a crowded third-class carriage .
` Were it not better to walk ? '
said he weakly .
A burly Sikh artisan thrust forth his bearded head .
` Is he afraid ?
Do not be afraid .
I remember the time when I was afraid of the te-rain .
Enter !
This thing is the work of the Government . ' '
I do not fear , ' said the lama .
` Have ye room within for two ? '
` There is no room even for a mouse , ' shrilled the wife of a well-to-do cultivator -- a Hindu Jat from the rich Jullundur , district .
Our night trains are not as well looked after as the day ones , where the sexes are very strictly kept to separate carriages .
` Oh , mother of my son , we can make space , ' said the blueturbaned husband .
` Pick up the child .
It is a holy man , see ` st thou ? '
` And my lap full of seventy times seven bundles !
Why not bid him sit on my knee , Shameless ?
But men are ever thus ! '
She looked round for approval .
An Amritzar courtesan near the window sniffed behind her head drapery .
` Enter !
Enter ! '
cried a fat Hindu money-lender , his folded account-book in a cloth under his arm .
With an oily smirk : ` It is well to be kind to the poor . '
` Ay , at seven per cent a month with a mortgage on the unborn calf , ' said a young Dogra soldier going south on leave ; and they all laughed .
` Will it travel to Benares ? '
said the lama .
` Assuredly .
Else why should we come ?
Enter , or we are left , ' cried Kim .
` See ! '
shrilled the Amritzar girl .
` He has never entered a train .
Oh , see ! '
` Nay , help , ' said the cultivator , putting out a large brown hand and hauling him in .
` Thus is it done , father . '
` But -- but -- I sit on the floor .
It is against the Rule to sit on a bench , ' said the lama .
` Moreover , it cramps me . ' '
I say , ' began the money-lender , pursing his lips , ` that there is not one rule of right living which these te-rains do not cause us to break .
We sit , for example , side by side with all castes and peoples . '
` Yea , and with most outrageously shameless ones , ' said the wife , scowling at the Amritzar girl making eyes at the young sepoy . '
I said we might have gone by cart along the road , ' said the husband , ` and thus have saved some money . '
` Yes -- and spent twice over what we saved on food by the way .
That was talked out ten thousand times . '
` Ay , by ten thousand tongues , ' grunted he .
` The Gods help us poor women if we may not speak .
Oho !
He is of that sort which may not look at or reply to a woman . '
For the lama , constrained by his Rule , took not the faintest notice of her .
` And his disciple is like him ? '
` Nay , mother , ' said Kim most promptly .
` Not when the woman is well-looking and above all charitable to the hungry . ' '
A beggar 's answer , ' said the Sikh , laughing .
` Thou hast brought it on thyself , sister ! '
Kim 's hands were crooked in supplication .
` And whither goest thou ? '
said the woman , handing him the half of a cake from a greasy package .
` Even to Benares . '
` Jugglers belike ? '
the young soldier suggested .
` Have ye any tricks to pass the time ?
Why does not that yellow man answer ? '
` Because , ' said Kim stoutly , ` he is holy , and thinks upon matters hidden from thee . '
` That may be well .
We of the Ludhiana Sikhs ' -- he rolled it out sonorously -- ` do not trouble our heads with doctrine .
We fight . '
` My sister 's brother 's son is naik -LSB- corporal -RSB- in that regiment , ' said the Sikh craftsman quietly .
` There are also some Dogra companies there . '
The soldier glared , for a Dogra is of other caste than a Sikh , and the banker tittered .
` They are all one to me , ' said the Amritzar girl .
` That we believe , ' snorted the cultivator 's wife malignantly .
` Nay , but all who serve the Sirkar with weapons in their hands are , as it were , one brotherhood .
There is one brotherhood of the caste , but beyond that again ' -- she looked round timidly -- ` the bond of the Pulton -- the Regiment -- eh ? '
` My brother is in a Jat regiment , ' said the cultivator .
` Dogras be good men . '
` Thy Sikhs at least were of that opinion , ' said the soldier , with a scowl at the placid old man in the corner .
` Thy Sikhs thought so when our two companies came to help them at the Pirzai Kotal in the face of eight Afridi standards on the ridge not three months gone . '
He told the story of a Border action in which the Dogra companies of the Ludhiana Sikhs had acquitted themselves well .
The Amritzar girl smiled ; for she knew the talk was to win her approval .
` Alas ! '
said the cultivator 's wife at the end .
` So their villages were burnt and their little children made homeless ? '
` They had marked our dead .
They paid a great payment after we of the Sikhs had schooled them .
So it was .
Is this Amritzar ? '
` Ay , and here they cut our tickets , ' said the banker , fumbling at his belt .
The lamps were paling in the dawn when the half-caste guard came round .
Ticket-collecting is a slow business in the East , where people secrete their tickets in all sorts of curious places .
Kim produced his and was told to get out .
` But I go to Umballa , ' he protested . '
I go with this holy man . '
` Thou canst go to Jehannum for aught I care .
This ticket is only -- ' Kim burst into a flood of tears , protesting that the lama was his father and his mother , that he was the prop of the lama 's declining years , and that the lama would die without his care .
All the carriage bade the guard be merciful -- the banker was specially eloquent here -- but the guard hauled Kim on to the platform .
The lama blinked -- he could not overtake the situation and Kim lifted up his voice and wept outside the carriage window . '
I am very poor .
My father is dead -- my mother is dead .
O charitable ones , if I am left here , who shall tend that old man ? '
` What -- what is this ? '
the lama repeated .
` He must go to Benares .
He must come with me .
He is my chela .
If there is money to be paid -- ' ` Oh , be silent , ' whispered Kim ; ` are we Rajahs to throw away good silver when the world is so charitable ? '
The Amritzar girl stepped out with her bundles , and it was on her that Kim kept his watchful eye .
Ladies of that persuasion , he knew , were generous . '
A ticket -- a little tikkut to Umballa -- O Breaker of Hearts ! '
She laughed .
` Hast thou no charity ? '
` Does the holy man come from the North ? '
` From far and far in the North he comes , ' cried Kim .
` From among the hills . '
` There is snow among the pine-trees in the North -- in the hills there is snow .
My mother was from Kulu .
Get thee a ticket .
Ask him for a blessing . '
` Ten thousand blessings , ' shrilled Kim . '
O Holy One , a woman has given us in charity so that I can come with thee -- a woman with a golden heart .
I run for the tikkut . '
The girl looked up at the lama , who had mechanically followed Kim to the platform .
He bowed his head that he might not see her , and muttered in Tibetan as she passed on with the crowd .
` Light come -- light go , ' said the cultivator 's wife viciously .
` She has acquired merit , ' returned the lama .
` Beyond doubt it was a nun . '
` There be ten thousand such nuns in Amritzar alone .
Return , old man , or the te-rain may depart without thee , ' cried the banker .
` Not only was it sufficient for the ticket , but for a little food also , ' said Kim , leaping to his place .
` Now eat , Holy One .
Look .
Day comes ! '
Golden , rose , saffron , and pink , the morning mists smoked away across the flat green levels .
All the rich Punjab lay out in the splendour of the keen sun .
The lama flinched a little as the telegraph-posts swung by .
` Great is the speed of the te-rain , ' said the banker , with a patronizing grin .
` We have gone farther since Lahore than thou couldst walk in two days : at even , we shall enter Umballa . '
` And that is still far from Benares , ' said the lama wearily , mumbling over the cakes that Kim offered .
They all unloosed their bundles and made their morning meal .
Then the banker , the cultivator , and the soldier prepared their pipes and wrapped the compartment in choking , acrid smoke , spitting and coughing and enjoying themselves .
The Sikh and the cultivator 's wife chewed pan ; the lama took snuff and told his beads , while Kim , cross-legged , smiled over the comfort of a full stomach .
` What rivers have ye by Benares ? '
said the lama of a sudden to the carriage at large .
` We have Gunga , ' returned the banker , when the little titter had subsided .
` What others ? '
` What other than Gunga ? '
` Nay , but in my mind was the thought of a certain River of healing . '
` That is Gunga .
Who bathes in her is made clean and goes to the Gods .
Thrice have I made pilgrimage to Gunga . '
He looked round proudly .
` There was need , ' said the young sepoy drily , and the travellers ' laugh turned against the banker .
` Clean -- to return again to the Gods , ' the lama muttered .
` And to go forth on the round of lives anew -- still tied to the Wheel . '
He shook his head testily .
` But maybe there is a mistake .
Who , then , made Gunga in the beginning ? '
` The Gods .
Of what known faith art thou ? '
the banker said , appalled . '
I follow the Law -- the Most Excellent Law .
So it was the Gods that made Gunga .
What like of Gods were they ? '
The carriage looked at him in amazement .
It was inconceivable that anyone should be ignorant of Gunga .
` What -- what is thy God ? '
said the money-lender at last .
` Hear ! '
said the lama , shifting the rosary to his hand .
` Hear : for I speak of Him now !
O people of Hind , listen ! '
He began in Urdu the tale of the Lord Buddha , but , borne by his own thoughts , slid into Tibetan and long-droned texts from a Chinese book of the Buddha 's life .
The gentle , tolerant folk looked on reverently .
All India is full of holy men stammering gospels in strange tongues ; shaken and consumed in the fires of their own zeal ; dreamers , babblers , and visionaries : as it has been from the beginning and will continue to the end .
` Um ! '
said the soldier of the Ludhiana Sikhs .
` There was a Mohammedan regiment lay next to us at the Pirzai Kotal , and a priest of theirs -- he was , as I remember , a naik -- when the fit was on him , spake prophecies .
But the mad all are in God 's keeping .
His officers overlooked much in that man . '
The lama fell back on Urdu , remembering that he was in a strange land .
` Hear the tale of the Arrow which our Lord loosed from the bow , ' he said .
This was much more to their taste , and they listened curiously while he told it .
` Now , O people of Hind , I go to seek that River .
Know ye aught that may guide me , for we be all men and women in evil case . '
` There is Gunga -- and Gunga alone -- who washes away sin . '
ran the murmur round the carriage .
` Though past question we have good Gods Jullundur-way , ' said the cultivator 's wife , looking out of the window .
` See how they have blessed the crops . '
` To search every river in the Punjab is no small matter , ' said her husband .
` For me , a stream that leaves good silt on my land suffices , and I thank Bhumia , the God of the Home-stead . '
He shrugged one knotted , bronzed shoulder .
` Think you our Lord came so far North ? '
said the lama , turning to Kim .
` It may be , ' Kim replied soothingly , as he spat red pan-juice on the floor .
` The last of the Great Ones , ' said the Sikh with authority , ` was Sikander Julkarn -LSB- Alexander the Great -RSB- .
He paved the streets of Jullundur and built a great tank near Umballa .
That pavement holds to this day ; and the tank is there also .
I never heard of thy God . '
` Let thy hair grow long and talk Punjabi , ' said the young soldier jestingly to Kim , quoting a Northern proverb .
` That is all that makes a Sikh . '
But he did not say this very loud .
The lama sighed and shrank into himself , a dingy , shapeless mass .
In the pauses of their talk they could hear the low droning ` Om mane pudme hum !
Om mane pudme hum ! '
-- and the thick click of the wooden rosary beads .
` It irks me , ' he said at last .
` The speed and the clatter irk me .
Moreover , my chela , I think that maybe we have over-passed that River . '
` Peace , peace , ' said Kim .
` Was not the River near Benares ?
We are yet far from the place . '
` But -- if our Lord came North , it may be any one of these little ones that we have run across . ' '
I do not know . '
` But thou wast sent to me -- wast thou sent to me ?
-- for the merit I had acquired over yonder at Such-zen .
From beside the cannon didst thou come -- bearing two faces -- and two garbs . '
` Peace .
One must not speak of these things here , ' whispered Kim .
` There was but one of me .
Think again and thou wilt remember .
A boy -- a Hindu boy -- by the great green cannon . '
` But was there not also an Englishman with a white beard holy among images -- who himself made more sure my assurance of the River of the Arrow ? '
` He -- we -- went to the Ajaib-Gher in Lahore to pray before the Gods there , ' Kim explained to the openly listening company .
` And the Sahib of the Wonder House talked to him -- yes , this is truth as a brother .
He is a very holy man , from far beyond the Hills .
Rest , thou .
In time we come to Umballa . '
` But my River -- the River of my healing ? '
` And then , if it please thee , we will go hunting for that River on foot .
So that we miss nothing -- not even a little rivulet in a field-side . '
` But thou hast a Search of thine own ? '
The lama -- very pleased that he remembered so well -- sat bolt upright .
` Ay , ' said Kim , humouring him .
The boy was entirely happy to be out chewing pan and seeing new people in the great good-tempered world .
` It was a bull -- a Red Bull that shall come and help thee and carry thee -- whither ?
I have forgotten .
A Red Bull on a green field , was it not ? '
` Nay , it will carry me nowhere , ' said Kim .
` It is but a tale I told thee . '
` What is this ? '
The cultivator 's wife leaned forward , her bracelets clinking on her arm .
` Do ye both dream dreams ?
A Red Bull on a green field , that shall carry thee to the heavens or what ?
Was it a vision ?
Did one make a prophecy ?
We have a Red Bull in our village behind Jullundur city , and he grazes by choice in the very greenest of our fields ! '
` Give a woman an old wife 's tale and a weaver-bird a leaf and a thread ' , they will weave wonderful things , ' said the Sikh .
` All holy men dream dreams , and by following holy men their disciples attain that power . ' '
A Red Bull on a green field , was it ? '
the lama repeated .
` In a former life it may be thou hast acquired merit , and the Bull will come to reward thee . '
` Nay -- nay -- it was but a tale one told to me -- for a jest belike .
But I will seek the Bull about Umballa , and thou canst look for thy River and rest from the clatter of the train . '
` It may be that the Bull knows -- that he is sent to guide us both . '
said the lama , hopefully as a child .
Then to the company , indicating Kim : ` This one was sent to me but yesterday .
He is not , I think , of this world . '
` Beggars aplenty have I met , and holy men to boot , but never such a yogi nor such a disciple , ' said the woman .
Her husband touched his forehead lightly with one finger and smiled .
But the next time the lama would eat they took care to give him of their best .
And at last -- tired , sleepy , and dusty -- they reached Umballa City Station .
` We abide here upon a law-suit , ' said the cultivator 's wife to Kim .
` We lodge with my man 's cousin 's younger brother .
There is room also in the courtyard for thy yogi and for thee .
Will -- will he give me a blessing ? ' '
O holy man !
A woman with a heart of gold gives us lodging for the night .
It is a kindly land , this land of the South .
See how we have been helped since the dawn ! '
The lama bowed his head in benediction .
` To fill my cousin 's younger brother 's house with wastrels -- ' the husband began , as he shouldered his heavy bamboo staff .
` Thy cousin 's younger brother owes my father 's cousin something yet on his daughter 's marriage-feast , ' said the woman crisply .
` Let him put their food to that account .
The yogi will beg , I doubt not . '
` Ay , I beg for him , ' said Kim , anxious only to get the lama under shelter for the night , that he might seek Mahbub Ali 's Englishman and deliver himself of the white stallion 's pedigree .
` Now , ' said he , when the lama had come to an anchor in the inner courtyard of a decent Hindu house behind the cantonments , ' I go away for a while -- to -- to buy us victual in the bazar .
Do not stray abroad till I return . '
` Thou wilt return ?
