My , how good it tasted !
He went all around the tree , stripping off the bark .
He stood up on his long hind legs and reached as high as he could .
Then he dug the snow away and ate down as far as he could .
When he could get no more tender young bark , he went on to the next tree .
Now though Peter did n't know it , he was in the very worst kind of mischief .
You see , when he took off all the bark all the way around the young peach tree he killed the tree , for you know it is on the inside of the bark that the sap which gives life to a tree and makes it grow goes up from the roots to all the branches .
So when Peter ate the bark all the way around the trunk of the young tree , he had made it impossible for the sap to come up in the spring .
Oh , it was the worst kind of mischief that Peter Rabbit was in .
But Peter did n't know it , and he kept right on filling that big stomach of his and enjoying it so much that he forgot to watch out for danger .
Suddenly , just as he had begun on another tree , a great roar right behind him made him jump almost out of his skin .
He knew that voice , and without waiting to even look behind him , he started for the stone wall on the other side of the orchard .
Right at his heels , his great mouth wide open , was Bowser the Hound .
CHAPTER XIV Farmer Brown Sets a Trap Peter Rabbit was in trouble .
He had got into mischief and now , like everyone who gets into mischief , he wished that he had n't .
The worst of it was that he was a long way from his home in the dear Old Briar-patch , and he did n't know how he ever could get back there again .
Where was he ?
Why , in the stone wall on one side of Farmer Brown 's young peach orchard .
How Peter blessed the old stone wall in which he had found a safe hiding-place !
Bowser had hung around nearly all night , so that Peter had not dared to try to go home .
Now it was daylight , and Peter knew it would not be safe to put his nose outside .
Peter was worried , so worried that he could n't go to sleep as he usually does in the daytime .
So he sat hidden in the old wall and waited and watched .
By and by he saw Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy come out into the orchard .
Right away they saw the mischief which Peter had done , and he could tell by the sound of their voices that they were very , very angry .
They went away , but before long they were back again , and all day long Peter watched them work putting something around each of the young peach-trees .
Peter grew so curious that he forgot all about his troubles and how far away from home he was .
He could hardly wait for night to come so that he might see what they had been doing .
Just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun started to go to bed behind the Purple Hills , Farmer Brown and his boy started back to the house .
Farmer Brown was smiling now .
`` I guess that will fix him ! ''
he said .
`` Now what does he mean by that ? ''
thought Peter .
`` Whom will it fix ?
Can it be me ?
I do n't need any fixing . ''
He waited just as long as he could .
When all was still , and the moonlight had begun to make shadows of the trees on the snow , Peter very cautiously crept out of his hiding-place .
Bowser the Hound was nowhere in sight , and everything was as quiet and peaceful as it had been when he first came into the orchard the night before .
Peter had fully made up his mind to go straight home as fast as his long legs would take him , but his dreadful curiosity insisted that first he must find out what Farmer Brown and his boy had been doing to the young peach trees .
So Peter hurried over to the nearest tree .
All around the trunk of the tree , from the ground clear up higher than Peter could reach , was wrapped wire netting .
Peter could n't get so much as a nibble of the delicious bark .
He had n't intended to take any , for he had meant to go right straight home , but now that he could n't get any , he wanted some more than ever , -- just a bite .
Peter looked around .
Everything was quiet .
He would try the next tree , and then he would go home .
But the next tree was wrapped with wire .
Peter hesitated , looked around , turned to go home , thought of how good that bark had tasted the night before , hesitated again , and then hurried over to the third tree .
It was protected just like the others .
Then Peter forgot all about going home .
He wanted some of that delicious bark , and he ran from one tree to another as fast as he could go .
-LSB- Illustration : The tree trunks were wrapped in wire netting . -RSB-
At last , way down at the end of the orchard , Peter found a tree that had no wire around it .
`` They must have forgotten this one ! ''
he thought , and his eyes sparkled .
All around on the snow were a lot of little , shiny wires , but Peter did n't notice them .
All he saw was that delicious bark on the young peach tree .
He hopped right into the middle of the wires , and then , just as he reached up to take the first bite of bark , he felt something tugging at one of his hind legs .
CHAPTER XV Peter Rabbit Is Caught in a Snare When Peter Rabbit , reaching up to nibble the bark of one of Farmer Brown 's young trees , felt something tugging at one of his hind legs , he was so startled that he jumped to get away .
Instead of doing this , he fell flat on his face .
The thing on his hind leg had tightened and held him fast .
A great fear came to Peter Rabbit , and lying there in the snow , he kicked and struggled with all his might .
But the more he kicked , the tighter grew that hateful thing on his leg !
Finally he grew too tired to kick any more and lay still .
The dreadful thing that held him hurt his leg , but it did n't pull when he lay still .
When he had grown a little calmer , Peter sat up to examine the thing which held him so fast .
It was something like one of the blackberry vines he had sometimes tripped over , only it was bright and shiny , and had no branches or tiny prickers , and one end was fastened to a stake .
Peter tried to bite off the shiny thing , but even his great , sharp front teeth could n't cut it .
Then Peter knew what it was .
It was wire !
It was a snare which Farmer Brown had set to catch him , and which he had walked right into because he had been so greedy for the bark of the young peach tree that he had not used his eyes to look out for danger .
Oh , how Peter Rabbit did wish that he had not been so curious to know what Farmer Brown had been doing that day , and that he had gone straight home as he had meant to do , instead of trying to get one more meal of young peach bark !
Big tears rolled down Peter 's cheeks .
What should he do ?
What could he do ?
For a long time Peter sat in the moonlight , trying to think of something to do .
At last he thought of the stake to which that hateful wire was fastened .
The stake was of wood , and Peter 's teeth would cut wood .
Peter 's heart gave a great leap of hope , and he began at once to dig away the snow from around the stake , and then settled himself to gnaw the stake in two .
Peter had been hard at work on the stake a long time and had it a little more than half cut through , when he heard a loud sniff down at the other end of the orchard .
He looked up to see -- whom do you think ?
Why , Bowser the Hound !
He had n't seen Peter yet , but he had already found Peter 's tracks , and it would be but a few minutes before he found Peter himself .
Poor Peter Rabbit !
There was n't time to finish cutting off the stake .
What could he do ?
He made a frightened jump just as he had when he first felt the wire tugging at his leg .
Just as before , he was thrown flat on his face .
He scrambled to his feet and jumped again , only to be thrown just as before .
Just then Bowser the Hound saw him and opening his mouth sent forth a great roar .
Peter made one more frantic jump .
Snap !
the stake had broken !
Peter pitched forward on his head , turned a somersault , and scrambled to his feet .
He was free at last !
That is , he could run , but after him dragged a piece of the stake .
How Peter did run !
It was hard work , for you know he had to drag that piece of stake after him .
But he did it , and just in time he crawled into the old stone wall on one side of the orchard , while Bowser the Hound barked his disappointment to the moon .
CHAPTER XVI Peter Rabbit 's Hard Journey Peter Rabbit sat in the old stone wall along one side of Farmer Brown 's orchard , waiting for Mrs. Moon to put out her light and leave the world in darkness until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun should kick off his rosy bedclothes and begin his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
In the winter , Mr. Sun is a late sleeper , and Peter knew that there would be two or three hours after Mrs. Moon put out her light when it would be quite dark .
And Peter also knew too that by this time Hooty the Owl would probably have caught his dinner .
So would old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox .
Bowser the Hound would be too sleepy to be on the watch .
It would be the very safest time for Peter to try to get to his home in the dear Old Briar-patch .
So Peter waited and waited .
Twice Bowser the Hound , who had chased him into the old wall , came over and barked at him and tried to get at him .
But the old wall kept Peter safe , and Bowser gave it up .
And all the time Peter sat waiting he was in great pain .
You see that shiny wire was drawn so tight that it cut into his flesh and hurt dreadfully , and to the other end of the wire was fastened a piece of wood , part of the stake to which the snare had been made fast and which Peter had managed to gnaw and break off .
It was on account of this that Peter was waiting for Mrs. Moon to put out her light .
He knew that with that stake dragging after him he would have to go very slowly , and he could not run any more risk of danger than he actually had to .
So he waited and waited , and by and by , sure enough , Mrs. Moon put out her light .
Peter waited a little longer , listening with all his might .
Everything was still .
Then Peter crept out of the old stone wall .
Right away trouble began .
The stake dragging at the end of the wire fast to his leg caught among the stones and pulled Peter up short .
My , how it did hurt !
It made the tears come .
But Peter shut his teeth hard , and turning back , he worked until he got the stake free .
Then he started on once more , dragging the stake after him .
Very slowly across the orchard and under the fence on the other side crept Peter Rabbit , his leg so stiff and sore that he could hardly touch it to the snow , and all the time dragging that piece of stake , which seemed to grow heavier and harder to drag every minute .
Peter did not dare to go out across the open fields , for fear some danger might happen along , and he would have no place to hide .
So he crept along close to the fences where bushes grow , and this made it very , very hard , for the dragging stake was forever catching in the bushes with a yank at the sore leg which brought Peter up short with a squeal of pain .
This was bad enough , but all the time Peter was filled with a dreadful fear that Hooty the Owl or Granny Fox might just happen along .
He had to stop to rest very , very often , and then he would listen and listen .
Over and over again he said to himself : `` Oh , dear , whatever did I go up to the young peach orchard for when I knew I had no business there ?
Why could n't I have been content with all the good things that were mine in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows ?
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
Just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun began to light up the Green Meadows , Peter Rabbit reached the dear Old Briar-patch .
Danny Meadow Mouse was sitting on the edge of it anxiously watching for him .
Peter crawled up and started to creep in along one of his little private paths .
He got in himself , but the dragging stake caught among the brambles , and Peter just fell down in the snow right where he was , too tired and worn out to move .
CHAPTER XVII Danny Meadow Mouse Becomes Worried Danny Meadow Mouse limped around through the dear Old Briar-patch , where he had lived with Peter Rabbit ever since he had squirmed out of the claws of Hooty the Owl and dropped there , right at the feet of Peter Rabbit .
Danny limped because he was still lame and sore from Hooty 's terrible claws , but he did n't let himself think much about that , because he was so thankful to be alive at all .
So he limped around in the Old Briar-patch , picking up seed which had fallen on the snow , and sometimes pulling down a few of the red berries which cling all winter to the wild rose bushes .
The seeds in these were very nice indeed , and Danny always felt especially good after a meal of them .
Danny Meadow Mouse had grown very fond of Peter Rabbit , for Peter had been very , very good to him .
Danny felt that he never , never could repay all of Peter 's kindness .
It had been very good of Peter to offer to share the Old Briar-patch with Danny , because Danny was so far from his own home that it would not be safe for him to try to get back there .
But Peter had done more than that .
He had taken care of Danny , such good care , during the first few days after Danny 's escape from Hooty the Owl .
He had brought good things to eat while Danny was too weak and sore to get things for himself .
Oh , Peter had been very good indeed to him !
But now , as Danny limped around , he was not happy .
No , sir , he was not happy .
The truth is , Danny Meadow Mouse was worried .
It was a different kind of worry from any he had known before .
You see , for the first time in his life , Danny was worrying about someone else .
He was worrying about Peter Rabbit .
Peter had been gone from the Old Briar-patch a whole night and a whole day .
He often was gone all night , but never all day too .
Danny was sure that something had happened to Peter .
He thought of how he had begged Peter not to go up to Farmer Brown 's young peach orchard .
He had felt in his bones that it was not safe , that something dreadful would happen to Peter .
How Peter had laughed at him and bravely started off !
Why had n't he come home ?
As he limped around , Danny talked to himself : `` Why can not people be content With all the good things that are sent , And mind their own affairs at home Instead of going forth to roam ? ''
It was now the second night since Peter Rabbit had gone away .
Danny Meadow Mouse could n't sleep at all .
Round and round through the Old Briar-patch he limped , and finally sat down at the edge of it to wait and watch .
At last , just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun sent his first long rays of light across the Green Meadows , Danny saw something crawling towards the Old Briar-patch .
He rubbed his eyes and looked again .
It was -- no , it could n't be -- yes , it was Peter Rabbit !
But what was the matter with him ?
Always before Peter had come home lipperty-lipperty-lipperty-lip , but now he was crawling , actually crawling !
Danny Meadow Mouse did n't know what to make of it .
Nearer and nearer came Peter .
Something was following him .
No , Peter was dragging something after him .
At last Peter started to crawl along one of his little private paths into the Old Briar-patch .
The thing dragging behind caught in the brambles , and Peter fell headlong in the snow , too tired and worn out to move .
Then Danny saw what the trouble was .
A wire was fast to one of Peter 's long hind legs , and to the other end of the wire was fastened part of a stake .
Peter had been caught in a snare !
Danny hurried over to Peter and tears stood in his eyes .
`` Poor Peter Rabbit !
Oh , I 'm so sorry , Peter ! ''
he whispered .
CHAPTER XVIII Danny Meadow Mouse Returns a Kindness There Peter Rabbit lay .
He had dragged that piece of stake a long way , a very long way , indeed .
But now he could drag it no farther , for it had caught in the bramble bushes .
So Peter just dropped on the snow and cried .
Yes , sir , he cried !
You see he was so tired and worn out and frightened , and his leg was so stiff and sore and hurt him so !
And then it was so dreadful to actually get home and be stopped right on your very own doorstep .
So Peter just lay there and cried .
Just supposing old Granny Fox should come poking around and find Peter caught that way !
All she would have to do would be to get hold of that hateful stake caught in the bramble bushes and pull Peter out where she could get him .
Do you wonder that Peter cried ?
By and by he became aware that someone was wiping away his tears .
It was Danny Meadow Mouse .
And Danny was singing in a funny little voice .
Pretty soon Peter stopped crying and listened , and this is what he heard : `` Is n't any use to cry !
Not a bit !
Not a bit !
Wipe your eyes and wipe 'em dry !
Use your wit !
Use your wit !
Just remember that to-morrow Never brings a single sorrow .
Yesterday has gone forever And to-morrow gets here never .
Chase your worries all away ; Nothing 's worse than just to-day . ''
Peter smiled in spite of himself .
`` That 's right !
That 's right !
Smile away , Peter Rabbit .
Smile away !
Your troubles , sir , are all to-day .
And between you and me , I do n't believe they are so bad as you think they are .
Now you lie still just where you are , while I go see what can be done . ''
With that off whisked Danny Meadow Mouse as spry as you please , in spite of his lame leg , and in a few minutes Peter knew by little twitches of the wire on his leg that Danny was doing something at the other end .
He was .
Danny Meadow Mouse had set out to gnaw that piece of stake all to splinters .
So there he sat and gnawed and gnawed and gnawed .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climbed higher and higher in the sky , and Danny Meadow Mouse grew hungry , but still he kept right on gnawing at that bothersome stake .
-LSB- Illustration : Danny gnawed the stake which held Peter . -RSB-
By and by , happening to look across the snow-covered Green Meadows , he saw something that made his heart jump .
It was Farmer Brown 's boy coming straight over towards the dear Old Briar-patch .
Danny did n't say a word to Peter Rabbit , but gnawed faster than ever .
Farmer Brown 's boy was almost there when Danny stopped gnawing .
There was only a tiny bit of the stake left now , and Danny hurried to tell Peter Rabbit that there was nothing to stop him now from going to his most secret retreat in the very heart of the Old Briar-patch .
While Peter slowly dragged his way along , Danny trotted behind to see that the wire did not catch on the bushes .
They had safely reached Peter Rabbit 's secretest retreat when Farmer Brown 's boy came up to the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` So this is where that rabbit that killed our peach tree lives ! ''
said he .
`` We 'll try a few snares and put you out of mischief . ''
And for the rest of the afternoon Farmer Brown 's boy was very busy around the edge of the Old Briar-patch .
CHAPTER XIX Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse Live High Peter Rabbit sat in his secretest place in the dear Old Briar-patch with one of his long hind legs all swelled up and terribly sore because of the fine wire fast around it and cutting into it .
He could hear Farmer Brown 's boy going around on the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch and stopping every little while to do something .
In spite of his pain , Peter was curious .
Finally he called Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Danny , you are small and can keep out of sight easier than I can .
Go as near as ever you dare to Farmer Brown 's boy and find out what he is doing , '' said Peter Rabbit .
So Danny Meadow Mouse crept out as near to Farmer Brown 's boy as ever he dared and studied and studied to make out what Farmer Brown 's boy was doing .
By and by he returned to Peter Rabbit .
`` I do n't know what he 's doing , Peter , but he 's putting something in every one of your private little paths leading into the Briar-patch from the Green Meadows . ''
`` Ha ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` There are little loops of that queer stuff you 've got hanging to your leg , Peter , '' continued Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Just so ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` And he 's put cabbage leaves and pieces of apple all around , '' said Danny .
`` We must be careful ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
Peter 's leg was in a very bad way , indeed , and Peter suffered a great deal of pain .
The worst of it was , he did n't know how to get off the wire that was cutting into it so .
He had tried to cut the wire with his big teeth , but he could n't do it .
Danny Meadow Mouse had tried and tried to gnaw the wire , but it was n't the least bit of use .
But Danny was n't easily discouraged , and he kept working and working at it .
Once he thought he felt it slip a little .
He said nothing , but kept right on working .
Pretty soon he was sure that it slipped .
He went right on working harder than ever .
By and by he had it so loose that he slipped it right off of Peter 's leg , and Peter did n't know anything about it .
You see , that cruel wire snare had been so tight that Peter did n't have any feeling except of pain left in his leg , and so when Danny Meadow Mouse pulled the cruel wire snare off , Peter did n't know it until Danny held it up in front of him .
My , how thankful Peter was , and how he did thank Danny Meadow Mouse !
But Danny said that it was nothing at all , just nothing at all , and that he owed more than that to Peter Rabbit for being so good to him and letting him live in the dear Old Briar-patch .
It was a long time before Peter could hop as he used to , but after the first day he managed to get around .
He found that Farmer Brown 's boy had spread those miserable wire snares in every one of his private little paths .
But Peter knew what they were now .
He showed Danny Meadow Mouse how he , because he was so small , could safely run about among the snares and steal all the cabbage leaves and apples which Farmer Brown 's boy had put there for bait .
Danny Meadow Mouse thought this great fun and a great joke on Farmer Brown 's boy .
So every day he stole the bait , and he and Peter Rabbit lived high while Peter 's leg was getting well .
And all the time Farmer Brown 's boy wondered why he could n't catch Peter Rabbit .
CHAPTER XX Timid Danny Meadow Mouse Danny Meadow Mouse is timid .
Everybody says so , and what everybody says ought to be so .
But just as anybody can make a mistake sometimes , so can everybody .
Still , in this case , it is quite likely that everybody is right .
Danny Meadow Mouse is timid .
Ask Peter Rabbit .
Ask Sammy Jay .
Ask Striped Chipmunk .
They will all tell you the same thing .
Sammy Jay might even tell you that Danny is afraid of his own shadow , or that he tries to run away from his own tail .
Of course this is n't true .
Sammy Jay likes to say mean things .
It is n't fair to Danny Meadow Mouse to believe what Sammy Jay says .
But the fact is Danny certainly is timid .
More than this , he is n't ashamed of it -- not the least little bit .
`` You see , it 's this way , '' said Danny , as he sat on his doorstep one sunny morning talking to his friend , old Mr. Toad .
`` If I were n't afraid , I would n't be all the time watching out , and if I were n't all the time watching out , I would n't have any more chance than that foolish red ant running across in front of you . ''
Old Mr. Toad looked where Danny was pointing , and his tongue darted out and back again so quickly that Danny was n't sure that he saw it at all , but when he looked for the ant it was nowhere to be seen , and there was a satisfied twinkle in Mr. Toad 's eyes .
There was an answering twinkle in Danny 's own eyes as he continued .
`` No , sir , '' said he , `` I would n't stand a particle more chance than that foolish ant did .
Now if I were big and strong , like Old Man Coyote , or had swift wings , like Skimmer the Swallow , or were so homely and ugly-looking that no one wanted me , like -- like -- '' Danny hesitated and then finished rather lamely , `` like some folks I know , I suppose I would n't be afraid . ''
Old Mr. Toad looked up sharply when Danny mentioned homely and ugly-looking people , but Danny was gazing far out across the Green Meadows and looked so innocent that Mr. Toad concluded that he could n't have had him in mind .
`` Well , '' said he , thoughtfully scratching his nose , `` I suppose you may be right , but for my part fear seems a very foolish thing .
Now , I do n't know what it is .
I mind my own business , and no one ever bothers me .
I should think it would be a very uncomfortable feeling . ''
`` It is , '' replied Danny , `` but , as I said before , it is a very good thing to keep one on guard when there are as many watching for one as there are for me .
Now there 's Mr. Blacksnake and -- '' `` Where ? ''
exclaimed old Mr. Toad , turning as pale as a toad can turn , and looking uneasily and anxiously in every direction .
Danny turned his head to hide a smile .
If old Mr. Toad was n't showing fear , no one ever did .
`` Oh , '' said he , `` I did n't mean that he is anywhere around here now .
What I was going to say was that there is Mr. Blacksnake and Granny Fox and Reddy Fox and Redtail the Hawk and Hooty the Owl and others I might name , always watching for a chance to make a dinner from poor little me .
Do you wonder that I am afraid most of the time ? ''
`` No , '' replied old Mr. Toad .
`` No , I do n't wonder that you are afraid .
It must be dreadful to feel hungry eyes are watching for you every minute of the day and night , too . ''
`` Oh , it 's not so bad , '' replied Danny .
`` It 's rather exciting .
Besides , it keeps my wits sharp all the time .
I am afraid I should find life very dull indeed if , like you , I feared nothing and nobody .
By the way , see how queerly that grass is moving over there .
It looks as if Mr. Blacksnake -- Why , Mr. Toad , where are you going in such a hurry ? ''
`` I 've just remembered an important engagement with my cousin , Grandfather Frog , at the Smiling Pool , '' shouted old Mr. Toad over his shoulder , as he hurried so that he fell over his own feet .
Danny chuckled as he sat alone on his doorstep .
`` Oh , no , old Mr. Toad does n't know what fear is ! ''
said he .
`` Funny how some people wo n't admit what everybody can see for themselves .
Now , I am afraid , and I 'm willing to say so . ''
CHAPTER XXI An Exciting Day for Danny Meadow Mouse Danny Meadow Mouse started along one of his private little paths very early one morning .
He was on his way to get a supply of a certain kind of grass seed of which he is very fond .
He had been thinking about that seed for some time and waiting for it to get ripe .
Now it was just right , as he had found out the day before by a visit to the place where this particular grass grew .
The only trouble was it grew a long way from Danny 's home , and to reach it he had to cross an open place where the grass was so short that he could n't make a path under it .
`` I feel it in my bones that this is going to be an exciting day , '' said Danny to himself as he trotted along .
`` I suppose that if I were really wise , I would stay nearer home and do without that nice seed .
But nothing is really worth having unless it is worth working for , and that seed will taste all the better if I have hard work getting it . ''
So he trotted along his private little path , his ears wide open , and his eyes wide open , and his little nose carefully testing every Merry Little Breeze who happened along for any scent of danger which it might carry .
Most of all he depended upon his ears , for the grass was so tall that he could n't see over it , even when he sat up .
He had gone only a little way when he thought he heard a queer rustling behind him .
He stopped to listen .
There it was again , and it certainly was right in the path behind him !
He did n't need to be told who was making it .
There was only one who could make such a sound as that -- Mr. Blacksnake .
Now Danny can run very fast along his private little paths , but he knew that Mr. Blacksnake could run faster .
`` If my legs ca n't save me , my wits must , '' thought Danny as he started to run as fast as ever he could .
`` I must reach that fallen old hollow fence-post . ''
He was almost out of breath when he reached the post and scurried into the open end .
He knew by the sound of the rustling that Mr. Blacksnake was right at his heels .
Now the old post was hollow its whole length , but halfway there was an old knot-hole just big enough for Danny to squeeze through .
Mr. Blacksnake did n't know anything about that hole ; and because it was dark inside the old post , he did n't see Danny pop through it .
Danny ran back along the top of the log and was just in time to see the tip of Mr. Blacksnake 's tail disappear inside .
Then what do you think Danny did ?
Why , he followed Mr. Blacksnake right into the old post , but in doing it he did n't make the least little bit of noise .
Mr. Blacksnake kept right on through the old post and out the other end , for he was sure that that was the way Danny had gone .
He kept right on along the little path .
Now Danny knew that he would n't go very far before he found out that he had been fooled , and of course he would come back .
So Danny waited only long enough to get his breath and then ran back along the path to where another little path branched off .
For just a minute he paused .
`` If Mr. Blacksnake follows me , he will be sure to think that of course I have taken this other little path , '' thought Danny , `` so I wo n't do it . ''
Then he ran harder than ever , until he came to a place where two little paths branched off , one to the right and one to the left .
He took the latter and scampered on , sure that by this time Mr. Blacksnake would be so badly fooled that he would give up the chase .
And Danny was right .
`` Brains are better far than speed As wise men long ago agreed , '' said Danny , as he trotted on his way for the grass seed he liked so well .
`` I felt it in my bones that this would be an exciting day .
I wonder what next . ''
CHAPTER XXII What Happened Next to Danny Meadow Mouse Danny is so used to narrow escapes that he does n't waste any time thinking about them .
He did n't this time .
`` He who tries to look two ways at once is pretty sure to see nothing , '' says Danny , and he knew that if he thought too much about the things that had already happened , he could n't keep a sharp watch for the things that might happen .
Nothing more happened as he hurried along his private little path to the edge of a great patch of grass so short that he could n't hide under it .
He had to cross this , and all the way he would be in plain sight of anyone who happened to be near .
Very cautiously he peeped out and looked this way and looked that way , not forgetting to look up in the sky .
He could see no one anywhere .
Drawing a long breath , Danny started across the open place as fast as his short legs could take him .
Now all the time , Redtail the Hawk had been sitting in a tree some distance away , sitting so still that he looked like a part of the tree itself .
That is why Danny had n't seen him .
But Redtail saw Danny the instant he started across the open place , for Redtail 's eyes are very keen , and he can see a great distance .
With a satisfied chuckle , he spread his broad wings and started after Danny .
Just about halfway to the safety of the long grass on the other side , Danny gave a hurried look behind him , and his heart seemed to jump right into his mouth , for there was Redtail with his cruel claws already set to seize him !
Danny gave a frightened squeak , for he thought that surely this time he would be caught .
But he did n't mean to give up without trying to escape .
Three jumps ahead of him was a queer-looking thing .
He did n't know what it was , but if there was a hole in it he might yet fool Redtail .
One jump !
Would he be able to reach it ?
Two jumps !
There was a hole in it !
Three jumps !
With another frightened squeak , Danny dived into the opening just in time .
And what do you think he was in ?
Why , an old tomato can Farmer Brown 's boy had once used to carry bait in when he went fishing at the Smiling Pool .
He had dropped it there on his way home .
Redtail screamed with rage and disappointment as he struck the old can with his great claws .
He had been sure , very sure of Danny Meadow Mouse this time !
He tried to pick the can up , but he could n't get hold of it .
It just rolled away from him every time , try as he would .
Finally , in disgust , he gave up and flew back to the tree from which he had first seen Danny .
-LSB- Illustration : Redtail the Hawk screamed with rage as Danny escaped . -RSB-
Of course Danny had been terribly frightened when the can rolled , and by the noise the claws of Redtail made when they struck his queer hiding-place .
But he wisely decided that the best thing he could do was to stay there for a while .
And it was very fortunate that he did so , as he was very soon to find out .
CHAPTER XXIII Reddy Fox Grows Curious Danny Meadow Mouse had sat perfectly still for a long time inside the old tomato can in which he had found a refuge from Redtail the Hawk .
He did n't dare so much as put his head out for a look around , lest Redtail should be circling overhead ready to pounce on him .
`` If I stay here long enough , he 'll get tired and go away , if he has n't already , '' thought Danny .
`` This has been a pretty exciting morning so far , and I find that I am a little tired .
I may as well take a nap while I am waiting to make sure that the way is clear . ''
With that Danny curled up in the old tomato can .
But it was n't meant that Danny should have that nap .
He had closed his eyes , but his ears were still open , and presently he heard soft footsteps drawing near .
His eyes flew open , and he forgot all about sleep , you may be sure , for those footsteps sounded familiar .
They sounded to Danny very , very much like the footsteps of -- whom do you think ?
Why , Reddy Fox !
Danny 's heart began to beat faster as he listened .
Could it be ?
He did n't dare peep out .
Presently a little whiff of scent blew into the old tomato can .
Then Danny knew -- it was Reddy Fox .
`` Oh , dear !
I hope he does n't find that I am in here ! ''
thought Danny .
`` I wonder what under the sun has brought him up here just now . ''
If the truth were to be known , it was curiosity that had brought Reddy up there .
Reddy had been hunting for his breakfast some distance away on the Green Meadows when Redtail the Hawk had tried so hard to catch Danny Meadow Mouse .
Reddy 's sharp eyes had seen Redtail the minute he left the tree in pursuit of Danny , and he had known by the way Redtail flew that he saw something he wanted to catch .
He had watched Redtail swoop down and had heard his scream of rage when he missed Danny because Danny had dodged into the old tomato can .
He had seen Redtail strike and strike again at something on the ground , and finally fly off in disgust with empty claws .
`` Now , I wonder what it was Redtail was after and why he did n't get it , '' thought Reddy .
`` He acts terribly put out and disappointed .
I believe I 'll go over there and find out . ''
Off he started at a smart trot towards the patch of short grass where he had seen Redtail the Hawk striking at something on the ground .
As he drew near , he crept very softly until he reached the very edge of the open patch .
There he stopped and looked sharply all over it .
There was nothing to be seen but an old tomato can .
Reddy had seen it many times before .
`` Now what under the sun could Redtail have been after here ? ''
thought Reddy .
`` The grass is n't long enough for a grasshopper to hide in , and yet Redtail did n't get what he was after .
It 's very queer .
It certainly is very queer . ''
He trotted out and began to run back and forth with his nose to the ground , hoping that his nose would tell him what his eyes could n't .
Back and forth , back and forth he ran , and then suddenly he stopped .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Reddy .
He had found the scent left by Danny Meadow Mouse when he ran across towards the old tomato can .
Right up to the old can Reddy 's nose led him .
He hopped over the old can , but on the other side he could find no scent of Danny Meadow Mouse .
In a flash he understood , and a gleam of satisfaction shone in his yellow eyes as he turned back to the old can .
He knew that Danny must be hiding in there .
`` I 've got you this time ! ''
he snarled , as he sniffed at the opening in the end of the can .
CHAPTER XXIV Reddy Fox Loses His Temper Reddy Fox had caught Danny Meadow Mouse , and yet he had n't caught him .
He had found Danny hiding in the old tomato can , and it did n't enter Reddy 's head that he could n't get Danny out when he wanted to .
He was in no hurry .
He had had a pretty good breakfast of grasshoppers , and so he thought he would torment Danny a while before gobbling him up .
He lay down so that he could peep in at the open end of the old can and see Danny trying to make himself as small as possible at the other end .
Reddy grinned until he showed all his long teeth .
Reddy always is a bully , especially when his victim is a great deal smaller and weaker than himself .
`` I 've got you this time , Mr. Smarty , have n't I ? ''
taunted Reddy .
Danny did n't say anything .
`` You think you 've been very clever because you have fooled me two or three times , do n't you ?
Well , this time I 've got you where your tricks wo n't work , '' continued Reddy , `` so what are you going to do about it ? ''
Danny did n't answer .
The fact is , he was too frightened to answer .
Besides , he did n't know what he could do .
So he just kept still , but his bright eyes never once left Reddy 's cruel face .
For all his fright , Danny was doing some hard thinking .
He had been in tight places before and had learned never to give up hope .
Something might happen to frighten Reddy away .
Anyway , Reddy had to get him out of that old can before he would admit that he was really caught .
For a long time Reddy lay there licking his chops and saying all the things he could think of to frighten poor Danny Meadow Mouse .
At last he grew tired of this and made up his mind that it was time to end it and Danny Meadow Mouse at the same time .
He thrust his sharp nose in at the opening in the end of the old can , but the opening was too small for him to get more than his nose in , and he only scratched it on the sharp edges without so much as touching Danny .
`` I 'll pull you out , '' said Reddy and thrust in one black paw .
Danny promptly bit it so hard that Reddy yelped with pain and pulled it out in a hurry .
Presently he tried again with the other paw .
Danny bit this one harder still , and Reddy danced with pain and anger .
Then he lost his temper completely , a very foolish thing to do , as it always is .
He hit the old can , and away it rolled with Danny Meadow Mouse inside .
This seemed to make Reddy angrier than ever .
He sprang after it and hit it again .
Then he batted it first this way and then that way , growing angrier and angrier .
And all the time Danny Meadow Mouse managed to keep inside , although he got a terrible shaking up .
Back and forth across the patch of short grass Reddy knocked the old can , and he was in such a rage that he did n't notice where he was knocking it to .
Finally he sent it spinning into the long grass on the far side of the open patch , close to one of Danny 's private little paths .
Like a flash Danny was out and scurrying along the little path .
He dodged into another and presently into a third , which brought him to a tangle of barbed wire left there by Farmer Brown when he had built a new fence .
Under this he was safe .
`` Phew ! ''
exclaimed Danny , breathing very hard .
`` That was the narrowest escape yet !
But I guess I 'll get that special grass seed I started out for , after all . ''
And he did , while to this day Reddy Fox wonders how Danny got out of the old tomato can without his knowing it .
And so you see what temper does For those who give it rein ; It cheats them of the very thing They seek so hard to gain .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Grandfather_Frog.txt.out
I BILLY MINK FINDS LITTLE JOE OTTER Billy Mink ran around the edge of the Smiling Pool and turned down by the Laughing Brook .
His eyes twinkled with mischief , and he hurried as only Billy can .
As he passed Jerry Muskrat 's house , Jerry saw him .
`` Hi , Billy Mink !
Where are you going in such a hurry this fine morning ? ''
he called .
`` To find Little Joe Otter .
Have you seen anything of him ? ''
replied Billy .
`` No , '' said Jerry .
`` He 's probably down to the Big River fishing .
I heard him say last night that he was going . ''
`` Thanks , '' said Billy Mink , and without waiting to say more he was off like a little brown flash .
Jerry watched him out of sight .
`` Hump ! ''
exclaimed Jerry .
`` Billy Mink is in a terrible hurry this morning .
Now I wonder what he is so anxious to find Little Joe Otter for .
When they get their heads together , it is usually for some mischief . ''
Jerry climbed to the top of his house and looked over the Smiling Pool in the direction from which Billy Mink had just come .
Almost at once he saw Grandfather Frog fast asleep on his big green lily-pad .
The legs of a foolish green fly were sticking out of one corner of his big mouth .
Jerry could n't help laughing , for Grandfather Frog certainly did look funny .
`` He 's had a good breakfast this morning , and his full stomach has made him sleepy , '' thought Jerry .
`` But he 's getting careless in his old age .
He certainly is getting careless .
The idea of going to sleep right out in plain sight like that ! ''
Suddenly a new thought popped into his head .
`` Billy Mink saw him , and that is why he is so anxious to find Little Joe Otter .
He is planning to play some trick on Grandfather Frog as sure as pollywogs have tails ! ''
exclaimed Jerry .
Then his eyes began to twinkle as he added : `` I think I 'll have some fun myself . ''
Without another word Jerry slipped down into the water and swam over to the big green lily-pad of Grandfather Frog .
Then he hit the water a smart blow with his tail .
Grandfather Frog 's big goggly eyes flew open , and he was just about to make a frightened plunge into the Smiling Pool when he saw Jerry .
`` Have a nice nap ? ''
inquired Jerry , with a broad grin .
`` I was n't asleep ! ''
protested Grandfather Frog indignantly .
`` I was just thinking . ''
`` Do n't you think it a rather dangerous plan to think so long with your eyes closed ? ''
asked Jerry .
`` Well , maybe I did just doze off , '' admitted Grandfather Frog sheepishly .
`` Maybe you did , '' replied Jerry .
`` Now listen . ''
Then Jerry whispered in Grandfather Frog 's ear , and both chuckled as if they were enjoying some joke , for they are great friends , you know .
Afterward Jerry swam back to his house , and Grandfather Frog closed his eyes so as to look just as he did when he was asleep .
Meanwhile Billy Mink had hurried down the Laughing Brook .
Half-way to the Big River he met Little Joe Otter bringing home a big fish , for you know Little Joe is a great fisherman .
Billy Mink hastened to tell him how Grandfather Frog had fallen fast asleep on his big green lily-pad .
`` It 's a splendid chance to have some fun with Grandfather Frog and give him a great scare , '' concluded Billy .
Little Joe Otter put his fish down and grinned .
He likes to play pranks almost as well as he likes to go fishing .
`` What can we do ? ''
said he .
`` I 've thought of a plan , '' replied Billy .
`` Do you happen to know where we can find Longlegs the Blue Heron ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Little Joe .
`` I saw him fishing not five minutes ago . ''
Then Billy told Little Joe his plan , and laughing and giggling , the two little scamps hurried off to find Longlegs the Blue Heron .
II LONGLEGS THE BLUE HERON RECEIVES CALLERS Longlegs the Blue Heron felt decidedly out of sorts .
It was a beautiful morning , too beautiful for any one to be feeling that way .
Indeed , it was the same beautiful morning in which Grandfather Frog had caught so many foolish green flies .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun was smiling his broadest .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were dancing happily here and there over the Green Meadows , looking for some good turn to do for others .
The little feathered people to whom Old Mother Nature has given the great blessing of music in their throats were pouring out their sweetest songs .
So it seemed as if there was no good reason why Longlegs should feel out of sorts .
The fact is the trouble with Longlegs was an empty stomach .
Yes , Sir , that is what ailed Longlegs the Blue Heron that sunshiny morning .
You know it is hard work to be hungry and happy at the same time .
So Longlegs stood on the edge of a shallow little pool in the Laughing Brook , grumbling to himself .
Just a little while before , he had seen Little Joe Otter carrying home a big fish , and this had made him hungrier and more out of sorts than ever .
In the first place it made him envious , and envy , you know , always stirs up bad feelings .
He knew perfectly well that Little Joe had got that fish by boldly chasing it until he caught it , for Little Joe can swim even faster than a fish .
But Longlegs chose to try to make himself think that it was all luck .
Moreover , he wanted to blame some one for his own lack of success , as most people who fail do .
So when Little Joe had called out : `` Hi , Longlegs , what luck this fine morning ? ''
Longlegs just pretended not to hear .
But when Little Joe was out of sight and hearing , he began to grumble to himself .
`` No wonder I have no luck with that fellow racing up and down the Laughing Brook , '' said he .
`` He is n't content to catch what he wants himself , but frightens the rest of the fish so that an honest fisherman like me has no chance at all .
I do n't see what Old Mother Nature was thinking of when she gave him a liking for fish .
He and Billy Mink are just two worthless little scamps , born to make trouble for other people . ''
He was still grumbling when these two same little scamps poked their heads out of the grass on the other side of the little pool .
`` You look happy , Longlegs .
Must be that you have had a good breakfast , '' said Little Joe , nudging Billy Mink .
Longlegs snapped his great bill angrily .
`` What are you doing here , spoiling my fishing ? ''
he demanded .
`` Have n't you got the Big River and all the rest of the Laughing Brook to fool around in ?
This is my pool , and I 'll thank you to keep away ! ''
Billy Mink chuckled so that Longlegs heard him , and that did n't improve his temper a bit .
But before he could say anything more , Little Joe Otter spoke .
`` Oh , '' said he , `` we beg your pardon .
We just happen to know that Grandfather Frog is sound asleep , and we thought that if you had n't had good luck this morning , you might like to know about it .
As long as you think so ill of us , we 'll just run over and tell Blackcap the Night Heron . ''
Little Joe turned as if to start off in search of Blackcap at once .
`` Hold on a minute ! ''
called Longlegs , and tried to make his voice sound pleasant , a difficult thing to do , because , you know , his voice is very harsh and disagreeable .
`` The truth is , I have n't had a mouthful of breakfast and to be hungry is apt to make me cross .
Where did you say Grandfather Frog is ? ''
`` I did n't say , '' replied Little Joe , `` but if you really want to know , he is sitting on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool fast asleep right in plain sight . ''
`` Thank you , '' said Longlegs .
`` I believe I have an errand up that way , now I think of it .
I believe I 'll just go over and have a look at him .
I have never seen him asleep . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Thank you , '' said Longlegs .
`` I believe I have an errand up that way . ''
Page 10 . -RSB-
III LONGLEGS VISITS THE SMILING POOL Longlegs the Blue Heron watched Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter disappear down the Laughing Brook .
As long as they were in sight , he sat without moving , his head drawn down between his shoulders just as if he had nothing more important to think about than a morning nap .
But if you had been near enough to have seen his keen eyes , you would never have suspected him of even thinking of a nap .
Just as soon as he felt sure that the two little brown-coated scamps were out of sight , he stretched his long neck up until he was almost twice as tall as he had been a minute before .
He looked this way and that way to make sure that no danger was near , spread his great wings , flapped heavily up into the air , and then , with his head once more tucked back between his shoulders and his long legs straight out behind him , he flew out over the Green Meadows , and making a big circle , headed straight for the Smiling Pool .
All this time Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter had not been so far away as Longlegs supposed .
They had been hiding where they could watch him , and the instant he spread his wings , they started back up the Laughing Brook towards the Smiling Pool to see what would happen there .
You see they knew perfectly well that Longlegs was flying up to the Smiling Pool in the hope that he could catch Grandfather Frog for his breakfast .
They did n't really mean that any harm should come to Grandfather Frog , but they meant that he should have a great fright .
You see , they were like a great many other people , so heedless and thoughtless that they thought it fun to frighten others .
`` Of course we 'll waken Grandfather Frog in time for him to get away with nothing more than a great scare , '' said Little Joe Otter , as they hurried along .
`` It will be such fun to see his big goggly eyes pop out when he opens them and sees Longlegs just ready to gobble him up !
And wo n't Longlegs be hopping mad when we cheat him out of the breakfast he is so sure he is going to have ! ''
They reached the Smiling Pool before Longlegs , who had taken a roundabout way , and they hid among the bulrushes where they could see and not be seen .
`` There 's the old fellow just as I left him , fast asleep , '' whispered Billy Mink .
Sure enough , there on his big green lily-pad sat Grandfather Frog with his eyes shut .
At least , they seemed to be shut .
And over on top of his big house sat Jerry Muskrat .
Jerry seemed to be too busy opening a fresh-water clam to notice anything else ; but the truth is he was watching all that was going on .
You see , he had suspected that Billy Mink was going to play some trick on Grandfather Frog , so he had warned him .
When he had seen Longlegs coming towards the Smiling Pool , he had given Grandfather Frog another warning , and he knew that now he was only pretending to be asleep .
Straight up to the Smiling Pool came Longlegs the Blue Heron , and on the very edge of it , among the bulrushes , he dropped his long legs and stood with his toes in the water , his long neck stretched up so that he could look all over the Smiling Pool .
There , just as Little Joe Otter had said , sat Grandfather Frog on his big green lily-pad , fast asleep .
At least , he seemed to be fast asleep .
The eyes of Longlegs sparkled with hunger and the thought of what a splendid breakfast Grandfather Frog would make .
Very slowly , putting each foot down as carefully as he knew how , Longlegs began to walk along the shore so as to get opposite the big green lily-pad where Grandfather Frog was sitting .
And over in the bulrushes on the other side , Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink nudged each other and clapped their hands over their mouths to keep from laughing aloud .
IV THE PATIENCE OF LONGLEGS THE BLUE HERON Patience often wins the day When over-haste has lost the way .
If there is one virtue which Longlegs the Heron possesses above another it is patience .
Yes , Sir , Longlegs certainly has got patience .
He believes that if a thing is worth having , it is worth waiting for , and that if he waits long enough , he is sure to get it .
Perhaps that is because he has been a fisherman all his life , and his father and his grandfather were fishermen .
You know a fisherman without patience rarely catches anything .
Of course Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter laugh at this and say that it is n't so , but the truth is they sometimes go hungry when they would n't if they had a little of the patience of Longlegs .
Now Grandfather Frog is another who is very , very patient .
He can sit still the longest time waiting for something to come to him .
Indeed , he can sit perfectly still so long , and Longlegs can stand perfectly still so long , that Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter have had many long disputes as to which of the two can keep still the longest .
`` He will make a splendid breakfast , '' thought Longlegs , as very , very carefully he walked along the edge of the Smiling Pool so as to get right opposite Grandfather Frog .
There he stopped and looked very hard at Grandfather Frog .
Yes , he certainly must be asleep , for his eyes were closed .
Longlegs chuckled to himself right down inside without making a sound , and got ready to wade out so as to get within reach .
Now all the time Grandfather Frog was doing some quiet chuckling himself .
You see , he was n't asleep at all .
He was just pretending to be asleep , and all the time he was watching Longlegs out of a corner of one of his big goggly eyes .
Very , very slowly and carefully , so as not to make the teeniest , weeniest sound , Longlegs lifted one foot to wade out into the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog pretended to yawn and opened his big goggly eyes .
Longlegs stood on one foot without moving so much as a feather .
Grandfather Frog yawned again , nodded as if he were too sleepy to keep awake , and half closed his eyes .
Longlegs waited and waited .
Then , little by little , so slowly that if you had been there you would hardly have seen him move , he drew his long neck down until his head rested on his shoulders .
`` I guess I must wait until he falls sound asleep again , '' said Longlegs to himself .
But Grandfather Frog did n't go to sleep .
He would nod and nod and then , just when Longlegs would make up his mind that this time he really was asleep , open would pop Grandfather Frog 's eyes .
So all the long morning Longlegs stood on one foot without moving , watching and waiting and growing hungrier and hungrier , and all the long morning Grandfather Frog sat on his big green lily-pad , pretending that he was oh , so sleepy , and all the time having such a comfortable sun-bath and rest , for very early he had had a good breakfast of foolish green flies .
Over in the bulrushes on the other side of the Smiling Pool two little scamps in brown bathing suits waited and watched for the great fright they had planned for Grandfather Frog , when they had sent Longlegs to try to catch him .
They were Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
At first they laughed to themselves and nudged each other at the thought of the trick they had played .
Then , as nothing happened , they began to grow tired and uneasy .
You see they do not possess patience .
Finally they gave up in disgust and stole away to find some more exciting sport .
Grandfather Frog saw them go and chuckled harder than ever to himself .
V GRANDFATHER FROG JUMPS JUST IN TIME Back and forth over the Green Meadows sailed Whitetail the Marsh Hawk .
Like Longlegs the Blue Heron , he was hungry .
His sharp eyes peered down among the grasses , looking for something to eat , but some good fairy seemed to have warned the very little people who live there that Whitetail was out hunting .
Perhaps it was one of Old Mother West Wind 's children , the Merry Little Breezes .
You know they are always flitting about trying to do some one a good turn .
They love to dance and romp and play From dawn to dusk the livelong day , But more than this they love to find A chance to do some favor kind .
Anyway , little Mr. Green Snake seemed to know that Whitetail was out hunting and managed to keep out of sight .
Danny Meadow Mouse was n't to be found .
Only a few foolish grasshoppers rewarded his patient search , and these only served to make him feel hungrier than ever .
But old Whitetail has a great deal of persistence , and in spite of his bad luck , he kept at his hunting , back and forth , back and forth , until he had been all over the Green Meadows .
At last he made up his mind that he was wasting time there .
`` I 'll just have a look over at the Smiling Pool , and if there is nothing there , I 'll take a turn or two along the Big River , '' thought he and straightway started for the Smiling Pool .
Long before he reached it , his keen eyes saw Longlegs the Blue Heron standing motionless on the edge of it , and he knew by the looks of Longlegs that he was watching something which he hoped to catch .
`` If it 's a fish , '' thought Whitetail , `` it will do me no good , for I am no fisherman .
But if it 's a Frog -- well , Frogs are not as good eating as fat Meadow Mice , but they are very filling . ''
With that he hurried a little faster , and then he saw what Longlegs was watching so intently .
It was , as you know , Grandfather Frog sitting on his big green lily-pad .
Old Whitetail gave a great sigh of satisfaction .
Grandfather Frog certainly would be very filling , very filling , indeed .
Now Longlegs the Blue Heron was so intently watching Grandfather Frog that he saw nothing else , and Grandfather Frog was so busy watching Longlegs that he quite forgot that there might be other dangers .
Besides , his back was toward old Whitetail .
Of course Whitetail saw this , and it made him almost chuckle aloud .
Ever so many times he had tried to catch Grandfather Frog , but always Grandfather Frog had seen him long before he could get near him .
Now , with all his keen sight , old Whitetail had failed to see some one else who was sitting right in plain sight .
He had failed because his mind was so full of Grandfather Frog and Longlegs that he forgot to look around , as he usually does .
Just skimming the tops of the bulrushes he sailed swiftly out over the Smiling Pool and reached down with his great , cruel claws to clutch Grandfather Frog , who sat there pretending to be asleep , but all the time watching Longlegs and deep down inside chuckling to think how he was fooling Longlegs .
Slap !
That was the tail of Jerry Muskrat hitting the water .
Grandfather Frog knew what that meant -- danger !
He did n't know what the danger was , and he did n't wait to find out .
There would be time enough for that later .
When Jerry Muskrat slapped the water with his tail that way , danger was very near indeed .
With a frightened `` Chugarum ! ''
Grandfather Frog dived head first into the Smiling Pool , and so close was old Whitetail that the water was splashed right in his face .
He clutched frantically with his great claws , but all he got was a piece of the big green lily-pad on which Grandfather Frog had been sitting , and of course this was of no use for an empty stomach .
With a scream of disappointment and anger , he whirled in the air and made straight for Jerry Muskrat .
But Jerry just laughed in the most provoking way and ducked under water .
VI LONGLEGS AND WHITETAIL QUARREL `` You did ! ''
`` I did n't !
I did n't ! ''
`` You did ! ''
Such a terrible fuss when Grandfather hid !
You see Longlegs the Blue Heron had stood very patiently on one foot all the long morning waiting for Grandfather Frog to go to sleep on his big green lily-pad .
He had felt sure he was to have Grandfather Frog for his breakfast and lunch , for he had had no breakfast , and it was now lunch time .
He was so hungry that it seemed to him that the sides of his stomach certainly would fall in because there was nothing to hold them up , and then , without any warning at all , old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk had glided out across the Smiling Pool with his great claws stretched out to clutch Grandfather Frog , and Grandfather Frog had dived into the Smiling Pool with a great splash just in the very nick of time .
Now is there anything in the world so hard on the temper as to lose a good meal when you are very , very , very hungry ?
Of course Longlegs did n't really have that good meal , but he had thought that he was surely going to have it .
So when Grandfather Frog splashed into the Smiling Pool , of course Longlegs lost his temper altogether .
His yellow eyes seemed to grow even more yellow .
`` You robber !
You thief ! ''
he screamed harshly at old Whitetail .
Now old Whitetail was just as hungry as Longlegs , and he had come even nearer to catching Grandfather Frog .
He is even quicker tempered than Longlegs .
He had whirled like a flash on Jerry Muskrat , but Jerry had just laughed in the most provoking manner and ducked under water .
This had made old Whitetail angrier than ever , and then to be called bad names -- robber and thief !
It was more than any self-respecting Hawk could stand .
Yes , Sir , it certainly was !
He fairly shook with rage as he turned in the air once more and made straight for Longlegs the Blue Heron .
`` I 'm no more robber and thief than you are ! ''
he shrieked .
`` You frightened away my Frog ! ''
screamed Longlegs .
`` I did n't ! ''
`` You did ! ''
`` I did n't !
It was n't your Frog ; it was mine ! ''
`` Chugarum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog to Jerry Muskrat , as they peeped out from under some lily-pads .
`` I did n't know I belonged to anybody .
I really did n't .
Did you ? ''
`` No , '' replied Jerry , his eyes sparkling with excitement as he watched Longlegs and Whitetail , `` it 's news to me . ''
`` You 're too lazy to hunt like honest people ! ''
taunted old Whitetail , as he wheeled around Longlegs , watching for a chance to strike with his great , cruel claws .
`` I 'm too honest to take the food out of other people 's mouths ! ''
retorted Longlegs , dancing around so as always to face Whitetail , one of his great , broad wings held in front of him like a shield , and his long , strong bill ready to strike .
Every feather on Whitetail 's head was standing erect with rage , and he looked very fierce and terrible .
At last he saw a chance , or thought he did , and shot down .
But all he got was a feather from that great wing which Longlegs kept in front of him , and before he could get away , that long bill had struck him twice , so that he screamed with pain .
So they fought and fought , till the ground was covered with feathers , and they were too tired to fight any longer .
Then , slowly and painfully , old Whitetail flew away over the Green Meadows , and with torn and ragged wings , Longlegs flew heavily down the Laughing Brook towards the Big River , and both were sore and stiff and still hungry .
`` Dear me !
Dear me !
What a terrible thing and how useless anger is , '' said Grandfather Frog , as he climbed back on his big green lily-pad in the warm sunshine .
VII GRANDFATHER FROG 'S BIG MOUTH GETS HIM IN TROUBLE Grandfather Frog has a great big mouth .
You know that .
Everybody does .
His friends of the Smiling Pool , the Laughing Brook , and the Green Meadows have teased Grandfather Frog a great deal about the size of his mouth , but he has n't minded in the least , not the very least .
You see , he learned a long time ago that a big mouth is very handy for catching foolish green flies , especially when two happen to come along together .
So he is rather proud of his big mouth , just as he is of his goggly eyes .
But once in a while his big mouth gets him into trouble .
It 's a way big mouths have .
It holds so much that it makes him greedy sometimes .
He stuffs it full after his stomach already has all that it can hold , and then of course he ca n't swallow .
Then Grandfather Frog looks very foolish and silly and undignified , and everybody calls him a greedy fellow who is old enough to know better and who ought to be ashamed of himself .
Perhaps he is , but he never says so , and he is almost sure to do the same thing over again the first chance he has .
Now it happened that one morning when Grandfather Frog had had a very good breakfast of foolish green flies and really did n't need another single thing to eat , who should come along but Little Joe Otter , who had been down to the Big River fishing .
He had eaten all he could hold , and he was taking the rest of his catch to a secret hiding-place up the Laughing Brook .
Now Grandfather Frog is very fond of fish for a change , and when he saw those that Little Joe Otter had , his eyes glistened , and in spite of his full stomach his mouth watered .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog !
Have you had your breakfast yet ? ''
called Little Joe Otter .
Grandfather Frog wanted to say no , but he always tells the truth .
`` Ye-e-s , '' he replied .
`` I 've had my breakfast , such as it was .
Why do you ask ? ''
`` Oh , for no reason in particular .
I just thought that if you had n't , you might like a fish .
But as long as you have breakfasted , of course you do n't want one , '' said Little Joe , his bright eyes beginning to twinkle .
He held the fish out so that Grandfather Frog could see just how plump and nice they were .
`` Chugarum ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog .
`` Those certainly are very nice fish , very nice fish indeed .
It is very nice of you to think of a poor old fellow like me , and I -- er -- well , I might find room for just a little teeny , weeny one , if you can spare it . ''
Little Joe Otter knows all about Grandfather Frog 's greediness .
He looked at Grandfather Frog 's white and yellow waistcoat and saw how it was already stuffed full to bursting .
The twinkle in his eyes grew more mischievous than ever as he said : `` Of course I can .
But I would n't think of giving such an old friend a teeny , weeny one . ''
With that , Little Joe picked out the biggest fish he had and tossed it over to Grandfather Frog .
It landed close by his nose with a great splash , and it was almost half as big as Grandfather Frog himself .
It was plump and looked so tempting that Grandfather Frog forgot all about his full stomach .
He even forgot to be polite and thank Little Joe Otter .
He just opened his great mouth and seized the fish .
Yes , Sir , that is just what he did .
Almost before you could wink an eye , the fish had started down Grandfather Frog 's throat head first .
Now you know Grandfather Frog has no teeth , and so he can not bite things in two .
He has to swallow them whole .
That is just what he started to do with the fish .
It went all right until the head reached his stomach .
But you ca n't put anything more into a thing already full , and Grandfather Frog 's stomach was packed as full as it could be of foolish green flies .
There the fish stuck , and gulp and swallow as hard as he could , Grandfather Frog could n't make that fish go a bit farther .
Then he tried to get it out again , but it had gone so far down his throat that he could n't get it back .
Grandfather Frog began to choke .
VIII SPOTTY THE TURTLE PLAYS DOCTOR Greed 's a dreadful thing to see , As everybody will agree .
At first Little Joe Otter , sitting on the bank of the Smiling Pool , laughed himself almost sick as he watched Grandfather Frog trying to swallow a fish almost as big as himself , when his white and yellow waistcoat was already stuffed so full of foolish green flies that there was n't room for anything more .
Such greed would have been disgusting , if it had n't been so very , very funny .
At least , it was funny at first , for the fish had stuck , with the tail hanging out of Grandfather Frog 's big mouth .
Grandfather Frog hitched this way and hitched that way on his big green lily-pad , trying his best to swallow .
Twice he tumbled off with a splash into the Smiling Pool .
Each time he scrambled back again and rolled his great goggly eyes in silent appeal to Little Joe Otter to come to his aid .
-LSB- Illustration : As soon as they saw Grandfather Frog , they began to laugh , too .
Page 37 .
-RSB- But Little Joe was laughing so that he had to hold his sides , and he did n't understand that Grandfather Frog really was in trouble .
Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat came along , and as soon as they saw Grandfather Frog , they began to laugh , too .
They just laughed and laughed and laughed until the tears came .
They rolled over and over on the bank and kicked their heels from sheer enjoyment .
It was the funniest thing they had seen for a long , long time .
`` Did you ever see such greed ? ''
gasped Billy Mink .
`` Why do n't you pull it out and start over again ? ''
shouted Little Joe Otter .
Now this is just what Grandfather Frog was trying to do .
At least , he was trying to pull the fish out .
He had n't the least desire in the world to try swallowing it again .
In fact , he felt just then as if he never , never wanted to see another fish so long as he lived .
But Grandfather Frog 's hands are not made for grasping slippery things , and the tail of a fish is very slippery indeed .
He tried first with one hand , then with the other , and at last with both .
It was of no use at all .
He just could n't budge that fish .
He could n't cough it up , because it had gone too far down for that .
The more he clawed at that waving tail with his hands , the funnier he looked , and the harder Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat laughed .
They made such a noise that Spotty the Turtle , who had been taking a sun-bath on the end of an old log , slipped into the water and started to see what it was all about .
Now Spotty the Turtle is very , very slow on land , but he is a good swimmer .
He hurried now because he did n't want to miss the fun .
At first he did n't see Grandfather Frog .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
he asked .
Little Joe Otter simply pointed to Grandfather Frog .
Little Joe had laughed so much that he could n't even speak .
Spotty looked over to the big green lily-pad and started to laugh too .
Then he saw great tears rolling down from Grandfather Frog 's eyes and heard little choky sounds .
He stopped laughing and started for Grandfather Frog as fast as he could swim .
He climbed right up on the big green lily-pad , and reaching out , grabbed the end of the fish tail in his beak-like mouth .
Then Spotty the Turtle settled back and pulled , and Grandfather Frog settled back and pulled .
Splash !
Grandfather Frog had fallen backward into the Smiling Pool on one side of the big green lily-pad .
Splash !
Spotty the Turtle had fallen backward into the Smiling Pool on the opposite side of the big green lily-pad .
And the fish which had caused all the trouble lay floating on the water .
`` Thank you !
Thank you ! ''
gasped Grandfather Frog , as he feebly crawled back on the lily-pad .
`` A minute more , and I would have choked to death . ''
`` Do n't mention it , '' replied Spotty the Turtle .
`` I never , never will , '' promised Grandfather Frog .
IX OLD MR. TOAD VISITS GRANDFATHER FROG Grandfather Frog and old Mr. Toad are cousins .
Of course you know that without being told .
Everybody does .
But not everybody knows that they were born in the same place .
They were .
Yes , Sir , they were .
They were born in the Smiling Pool .
Both had long tails and for a while no legs , and they played and swam together without ever going on shore .
In fact , when they were babies , they could n't live out of the water .
And people who saw them did n't know the difference between them and called them by the same names -- tadpoles or pollywogs .
But when they grew old enough to have legs and get along without tails , they parted company .
You see , it was this way : Grandfather Frog -LRB- of course he was n't grandfather then -RRB- loved the Smiling Pool so well that he could n't think of leaving it .
He heard all about the Great World and what a wonderful place it was , but he could n't and would n't believe that there could be any nicer place than the Smiling Pool , and so he made up his mind that he would live there always .
But Mr. Toad could hardly wait to get rid of his tail before turning his back on the Smiling Pool and starting out to see the Great World .
Nothing that Grandfather Frog could say would stop him , and away Mr. Toad went , when he was so small that he could hide under a clover leaf .
Grandfather Frog did n't expect ever to see him again .
But he did , though it was n't for a long , long time .
And when he did come back , he had grown so that Grandfather Frog hardly knew him at first .
And right then and there began a dispute which they have kept up ever since : whether it was best to go out into the Great World or remain in the home of childhood .
Each was sure that what he had done was best , and each is sure of it to this day .
So whenever old Mr. Toad visits Grandfather Frog , as he does every once in a while , they are sure to argue and argue on this same old subject .
It was so on the day that Grandfather Frog had so nearly choked to death .
Old Mr. Toad had heard about it from one of the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind and right away had started for the Smiling Pool to pay his respects to Grandfather Frog , and to tell him how glad he was that Spotty the Turtle had come along just in time to pull the fish out of Grandfather Frog 's throat .
Now all day long Grandfather Frog had had to listen to unpleasant remarks about his greediness .
It was such a splendid chance to tease him that everybody around the Smiling Pool took advantage of it .
Grandfather Frog took it good-naturedly at first , but after a while it made him cross , and by the time his cousin , old Mr. Toad , arrived , he was sulky and just grunted when Mr. Toad told him how glad he was to find Grandfather Frog quite recovered .
Old Mr. Toad pretended not to notice how out of sorts Grandfather Frog was but kept right on talking .
`` If you had been out in the Great World as much as I have been , you would have known that Little Joe Otter was n't giving you that fish for nothing , '' said he .
Grandfather Frog swelled right out with anger .
`` Chugarum ! ''
he exclaimed in his deepest , gruffest voice .
`` Chugarum !
Go back to your Great World and learn to mind your own affairs , Mr. Toad . ''
Right away old Mr. Toad began to swell with anger too .
For a whole minute he glared at Grandfather Frog , so indignant he could n't find his tongue .
When he did find it , he said some very unpleasant things , and right away they began to dispute .
`` What good are you to anybody but yourself , never seeing anything of the Great World and not knowing anything about what is going on or what other people are doing ? ''
asked old Mr. Toad .
`` I 'm minding my own affairs and not meddling with things that do n't concern me , as seems to be the way out in the Great World you are so fond of talking about , '' retorted Grandfather Frog .
`` Wise people know enough to be content with what they have .
You 've been out in the Great World ever since you could hop , and what good has it done you ?
Tell me that !
You have n't even a decent suit of clothes to your back . ''
Grandfather Frog patted his white and yellow waistcoat as he spoke and looked admiringly at the reflection of his handsome green coat in the Smiling Pool .
Old Mr. Toad 's eyes snapped , for you know his suit is very plain and rough .
`` People who do honest work for their living have no time to sit about in fine clothes admiring themselves , '' he replied sharply .
`` I 've learned this much out in the Great World , that lazy people come to no good end , and I know enough not to choke myself to death . ''
Grandfather Frog almost choked again , he was so angry .
You see old Mr. Toad 's remarks were very personal , and nobody likes personal remarks when they are unpleasant , especially if they happen to be true .
Grandfather Frog was trying his best to think of something sharp to say in reply , when Mr. Redwing , sitting in the top of the big hickory-tree , shouted : `` Here comes Farmer Brown 's boy ! ''
Grandfather Frog forgot his anger and began to look anxious .
He moved about uneasily on his big green lily-pad and got ready to dive into the Smiling Pool , for he was afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy had a pocketful of stones as he usually did have when he came over to the Smiling Pool .
Old Mr. Toad did n't look troubled the least bit .
He did n't even look around for a hiding-place .
He just sat still and grinned .
`` You 'd better watch out , or you 'll never visit the Smiling Pool again , '' called Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , '' replied old Mr. Toad , `` I 'm not afraid .
Farmer Brown 's boy is a friend of mine .
I help him in his garden .
How to make friends is one of the things the Great World has taught me . ''
`` Chugarum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'd have you to know that -- '' But what it was that he was to know old Mr. Toad never found out , for just then Grandfather Frog caught sight of Farmer Brown 's boy and without waiting even to say good-by he dived into the Smiling Pool .
X GRANDFATHER FROG STARTS OUT TO SEE THE GREAT WORLD Grandfather Frog looked very solemn as he sat on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool .
He looked very much as if he had something on his mind .
A foolish green fly actually brushed Grandfather Frog 's nose and he did n't even notice it .
The fact is he did have something on his mind .
It had been there ever since his cousin , old Mr. Toad , had called the day before and they had quarreled as usual over the question whether it was best never to leave home or to go out into the Great World .
Right in the midst of their quarrel along had come Farmer Brown 's boy .
Now Grandfather Frog is afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy , so when he appeared , Grandfather Frog stopped arguing with old Mr. Toad and with a great splash dived into the Smiling Pool and hid under a lily-pad .
There he stayed and watched his cousin , old Mr. Toad , grinning in the most provoking way , for he was n't afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy .
In fact , he had boasted that they were friends .
Grandfather Frog had thought that this was just an idle boast , but when he saw Farmer Brown 's boy tickle old Mr. Toad under his chin with a straw , while Mr. Toad sat perfectly still and seemed to enjoy it , he knew that it was true .
Grandfather Frog had not come out of his hiding-place until after old Mr. Toad had gone back across the Green Meadows and Farmer Brown 's boy had gone home for his supper .
Then Grandfather Frog had climbed back on his big green lily-pad and had sat there half the night without once leading the chorus of the Smiling Pool with his great deep bass voice as he usually did .
He was thinking , thinking very hard .
And now , this bright , sunshiny morning , he was still thinking .
The fact is Grandfather Frog was beginning to wonder if perhaps , after all , Mr. Toad was right .
If the Great World had taught him how to make friends with Farmer Brown 's boy , there really must be some things worth learning there .
Not for the world would Grandfather Frog have admitted to old Mr. Toad or to any one else that there was anything for him to learn , for you know he is very old and by his friends is accounted very wise .
But right down in his heart he was beginning to think that perhaps there were some things which he could n't learn in the Smiling Pool .
So he sat and thought and thought .
Suddenly he made up his mind .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said he .
`` I 'll do it ! ''
`` Do what ? ''
asked Jerry Muskrat , who happened to be swimming past .
`` I 'll go out and see for myself what this Great World my cousin , old Mr. Toad , is so fond of talking about is like , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Do n't you do it , '' advised Jerry Muskrat .
`` Do n't you do anything so foolish as that .
You 're too old , much too old , Grandfather Frog , to go out into the Great World . ''
Now few old people like to be told that they are too old to do what they please , and Grandfather Frog is no different from others .
`` You just mind your own affairs , Jerry Muskrat , '' he retorted sharply .
`` I guess I know what is best for me without being told .
If my cousin , old Mr. Toad , can take care of himself out in the Great World , I can .
He is n't half so spry as I am .
I 'm going , and that is all there is about it ! ''
With that Grandfather Frog dived into the Smiling Pool , swam across to a place where the bank was low , and without once looking back started across the Green Meadows to see the Great World .
XI GRANDFATHER FROG IS STUBBORN `` Fee , fi , fe , fum !
Chug , chug , chugarum ! ''
Grandfather actually had started out to see the Great World .
Yes , Sir , he had turned his back on the Smiling Pool , and nothing that Jerry Muskrat could say made the least bit of difference .
Grandfather Frog had made up his mind , and when he does that , it is just a waste of time and breath for any one to try to make him change it .
You see Grandfather Frog is stubborn .
Yes , that is just the word -- stubborn .
He would see for himself what this Great World was that his cousin , old Mr. Toad , talked so much about and said was so much better than the Smiling Pool where Grandfather Frog had spent his whole life .
`` If old Mr. Toad can take care of himself , I can take care of myself out in the Great World , '' said Grandfather Frog , to himself as , with great jumps , he started out on to the Green Meadows .
`` I guess he is n't any smarter than I am !
He is n't half so spry as I am , and I can jump three times as far as he can .
I 'll see for myself what this Great World is like , and then I 'll go back to the Smiling Pool and stay there the rest of my life .
Chugarum , how warm it is ! ''
It was warm .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun was smiling his broadest and pouring his warmest rays down on the Green Meadows .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were taking a nap .
You see , they had played so hard early in the morning that they were tired .
So there was nobody and nothing to cool Grandfather Frog , and he just grew warmer and warmer with every jump .
He began to grow thirsty , and how he did long for a plunge in the dear , cool Smiling Pool !
But he was stubborn .
He would n't turn back , no matter how uncomfortable he felt .
He would see the Great World if it killed him .
So he kept right on , jump , jump , jump , jump .
Grandfather Frog had been up the Laughing Brook and down the Laughing Brook , where he could swim when he grew tired of traveling on the bank , and where he could cool off whenever he became too warm , but never before had he been very far away from water , and he found this a very different matter .
At first he had made great jumps , for that is what his long legs were given him for ; but the long grass bothered him , and after a little the jumps grew shorter and shorter and shorter , and with every jump he puffed and puffed and presently began to grunt .
You see he never before had made more than a few jumps at a time without resting , and his legs grew tired in a very little while .
Now if Grandfather Frog had known as much about the Green Meadows as the little people who live there all the time do , he would have taken the Lone Little Path , where the going was easy .
But he did n't .
He just started right out without knowing where he was going , and of course the way was hard , very hard indeed .
The grass was so tall that he could n't see over it , and the ground was so rough that it hurt his tender feet , which were used to the soft , mossy bank of the Smiling Pool .
He had gone only a little way before he wished with all his might that he had never thought of seeing the Great World .
But he had said that he was going to and he would , so he kept right on -- jump , jump , rest , jump , jump , jump , rest , jump , and then a long rest .
It was during one of these rests that he heard footsteps , and then a dreadful sound that made cold chills run all over him .
Sniff , sniff , sniff !
It was coming nearer .
Grandfather Frog flattened himself down as close to the ground as he could get .
But it was of no use , no use at all .
The sniffing came nearer and nearer , and then right over him stood Bowser the Hound !
Bowser looked just as surprised as he felt .
He put out one paw and turned Grandfather Frog over on his back .
Grandfather Frog struggled to his feet and made two frightened jumps .
`` Bow , wow ! ''
cried Bowser and rolled him over again .
Bowser thought it great fun , but Grandfather Frog thought that his last day had come .
XII GRANDFATHER FROG KEEPS ON Grandfather Frog is old and wise , But even age is foolish .
I 'm sure you 'll all agree with me His stubbornness was mulish .
That his very last day had come Grandfather Frog was sure .
He did n't have the least doubt about it .
Here he was at the mercy of Bowser the Hound out on the Green Meadows far from the dear , safe Smiling Pool .
Every time he moved , Bowser flipped him over on his back and danced around him , barking with joy .
Every minute Grandfather Frog expected to feel Bowser 's terrible teeth , and he grew cold at the thought .
When he found that he could n't get away , he just lay still .
He was too tired and frightened to do much of anything else , anyway .
Now when he lay still , he spoiled Bowser 's fun , for it was seeing him jump and kick his long legs that tickled Bowser so .
Bowser tossed him up in the air two or three times , but Grandfather Frog simply lay where he fell without moving .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
cried Bowser , in his great deep voice .
Grandfather Frog did n't so much as blink his great goggly eyes .
Bowser sniffed him all over .
`` I guess I 've frightened him to death , '' said Bowser , talking to himself .
`` I did n't mean to do that .
I just wanted to have some fun with him . ''
With that , Bowser took one more sniff and then trotted off to try to find something more exciting .
You see , he had n't had the least intention in the world of really hurting Grandfather Frog .
Grandfather Frog kept perfectly still until he was sure that Bowser was nowhere near .
Then he gave a great sigh of relief and crawled under a big mullein leaf to rest , and think things over .
`` Chugarum , that was a terrible experience ; it was , indeed ! ''
said he to himself , shivering at the very thought of what he had been through .
`` Nothing like that ever happened to me in the Smiling Pool .
I 've always said that the Smiling Pool is a better place in which to live than is the Great World , and now I know it .
The question is , what had I best do now ? ''
Now right down in his heart Grandfather Frog knew the answer .
Of course the best thing to do was to go straight back to the Smiling Pool as fast as he could .
But Grandfather Frog is stubborn .
Yes , Sir , he certainly is stubborn .
And stubbornness is often just another name for foolishness .
He had told Jerry Muskrat that he was going out to see the Great World .
Now if he went back , Jerry would laugh at him .
`` I wo n't ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` What wo n't you do ? ''
asked a voice so close to him that Grandfather Frog made a long jump before he thought .
You see , at the Smiling Pool he always jumped at the least hint of danger , and because one jump always took him into the water , he was always safe .
But there was no water here , and that jump took him right out where anybody passing could see him .
Then he turned around to see who had startled him so .
It was Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` I wo n't go back to the Smiling Pool until I have seen the Great World , '' replied Grandfather Frog gruffly .
-LSB- Illustration : `` You wo n't see much of the Great World if you jump like that every time you get a scare , '' said Danny .
Page 62 .
-RSB- `` You wo n't see much of the Great World if you jump like that every time you get a scare , '' said Danny , shaking his head .
`` No , Sir , you wo n't see much of the Great World , because one of these times you 'll jump right into the claws of old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , or his cousin Redtail , or Reddy Fox .
You take my advice , Grandfather Frog , and go straight back to the Smiling Pool .
You do n't know enough about the Great World to take care of yourself . ''
But Grandfather Frog was set in his ways , and nothing that Danny Meadow Mouse could say changed his mind in the least .
`` I started out to see the Great World , and I 'm going to keep right on , '' said he .
`` All right , '' said Danny at last .
`` If you will , I suppose you will .
I 'll go a little way with you just to get you started right . ''
`` Thank you , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Let 's start right away . ''
XIII DANNY MEADOW MOUSE FEELS RESPONSIBLE Responsible is a great big word .
But it is just as big in its meaning as it is in its looks , and that is the way words should be , I think , do n't you ?
Anyway , re-spon-sible is the way Danny Meadow Mouse felt when he found Grandfather Frog out on the Green Meadows so far from the Smiling Pool and so stubborn that he would keep on to see the Great World instead of going back to his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool , where he could take care of himself .
You remember Peter Rabbit felt re-spon-sible when he brought little Miss Fuzzy tail down from the Old Pasture to the dear Old Briar-patch .
He felt that it was his business to see to it that no harm came to her , and that is just the way Danny Meadow Mouse felt about Grandfather Frog .
You see , Danny knew that if Grandfather Frog was going to jump like that every time he was frightened , he would n't get very far in the Great World .
It might be the right thing to do in the Smiling Pool , where the friendly water would hide him from his enemies , but it was just the wrong thing to do on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest .
Danny had learned , when a very tiny fellow , that there the only safe thing to do when danger was near was to sit perfectly still and hardly breathe .
Now Danny Meadow Mouse is fond of Grandfather Frog , and he could n't bear to think that something dreadful might happen to him .
So when he found that he could n't get Grandfather Frog to go back to the Smiling Pool , he made up his mind that he just had to go along with Grandfather Frog to try to keep him out of danger .
Yes , Sir , he just had to do it .
He felt re-spon-sible for Grandfather Frog 's safety .
So here they were , Danny Meadow Mouse running ahead , anxious and worried and watching sharply for signs of danger , and Grandfather Frog puffing along behind , bound to see the Great World which his cousin , old Mr. Toad , said was a better place to live in than the Smiling Pool .
Now Danny has a great many private little paths under the grass all over the Green Meadows , and along these he can scamper ever so fast without once showing himself to those who may be looking for him .
Of course he started to take Grandfather Frog along one of these little paths .
But Grandfather Frog does n't walk or run ; he jumps .
There was n't room in Danny 's little paths for jumping , as they soon found out .
Grandfather Frog simply could n't follow Danny along those little paths .
Danny sat down to think , and puckered his brows anxiously .
He was more worried than ever .
It was very clear that Grandfather Frog would have to travel out in the open , where there was room for him to jump , and where also he would be right out in plain sight of all who happened along .
Once more Danny urged him to go back to the Smiling Pool , but he might just as well have talked to a stick or a stone .
Grandfather Frog had started out to see the Great World , and he was going to see it .
Danny sighed .
`` If you will , you will , I suppose , '' said he , `` and I guess the only place you can travel in any comfort is the Lone Little Path .
It is dangerous , very dangerous , but I guess you will have to do it . ''
`` Chugarum ! ''
replied Grandfather Frog , `` I 'm not afraid .
You show me the Lone Little Path and then go about your business , Danny Meadow Mouse . ''
So Danny led the way to the Lone Little Path , and Grandfather Frog sighed with relief , for here he could jump without getting all tangled up in long grass and without hurting his tender feet on sharp stubble where the grass had been cut .
But Danny felt more worried than ever .
He would n't leave Grandfather Frog because , you know , he felt re-spon-sible for him , and at the same time he was terribly afraid , for he felt sure that some of their enemies would see them .
He wanted to go back , but he kept right on , and that shows just what a brave little fellow Danny Meadow Mouse was .
XIV GRANDFATHER FROG HAS A STRANGE RIDE A thousand things may happen to , Ten thousand things befall , The traveler who careless is , Or thinks he knows it all .
Grandfather Frog , jumping along behind Danny Meadow Mouse up the Lone Little Path , was beginning to think that Danny was the most timid and easiest frightened of all the little meadow people of his acquaintance .
Danny kept as much under the grass that overhung the Lone Little Path as he could .
When there were perfectly bare places , Danny looked this way and looked that way anxiously and then scampered across as fast as he could make his little legs go .
When he was safely across , he would wait for Grandfather Frog .
If a shadow passed over the grass , Danny would duck under the nearest leaf and hold his breath .
`` Foolish ! ''
muttered Grandfather Frog .
`` Foolish , foolish to be so afraid !
Now , I 'm not afraid until I see something to be afraid of .
Time enough then .
What 's the good of looking for trouble all the time ?
Now , here I am out in the Great World , and I 'm not afraid .
And here 's Danny Meadow Mouse , who has lived here all his life , acting as if he expected something dreadful to happen any minute .
Pooh !
How very , very foolish ! ''
Now Grandfather Frog is old and in the Smiling Pool he is accounted very , very wise .
But the wisest sometimes become foolish when they think that they know all there is to know .
It was so with Grandfather Frog .
It was he who was foolish and not Danny Meadow Mouse .
You see Danny knew all the dangers on the Green Meadows , and how many sharp eyes were all the time watching for him .
He had long ago learned that the only way to feel safe was to feel afraid .
You see , then he was watching for danger every minute , and so he was n't likely to be surprised by his hungry enemies .
So while Grandfather Frog was looking down on Danny for being so timid , Danny was really doing the wisest thing .
More than that , he was really very , very brave .
He was showing Grandfather Frog the way up the Lone Little Path to see the Great World , when he himself would never , never have thought of traveling anywhere but along his own secret little paths , just because Grandfather Frog could n't jump anywhere excepting where the way was fairly clear , as in the Lone Little Path , and Danny was afraid that unless Grandfather Frog had some one with him to watch out for him , he would surely come to a sad end .
The farther they went with nothing happening , the more foolish Danny 's timid way of running and hiding seemed to Grandfather Frog , and he was just about to tell Danny just what he thought , when Danny dived into the long grass and warned Grandfather Frog to do the same .
But Grandfather Frog did n't .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said he , `` I do n't see anything to be afraid of , and I 'm not going to hide until I do . ''
So he sat still right where he was , in the middle of the Lone Little Path , looking this way and that way , and seeing nothing to be afraid of .
And just then around a turn in the Lone Little Path came -- who do you think ?
Why Farmer Brown 's boy !
He saw Grandfather Frog and with a whoop of joy he sprang for him .
Grandfather Frog gave a frightened croak and jumped , but he was too late .
Before he could jump again Farmer Brown 's boy had him by his long hind-legs .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
shouted Farmer Brown 's boy , `` I believe this is the very old chap I have tried so often to catch in the Smiling Pool .
These legs of yours will be mighty fine eating , Mr. Frog .
They will , indeed . ''
With that he tied Grandfather Frog 's legs together and went on his way across the Green Meadows with poor old Grandfather Frog dangling from the end of a string .
It was a strange ride and a most uncomfortable one , and with all his might Grandfather Frog wished he had never thought of going out into the Great World .
XV GRANDFATHER FROG GIVES UP HOPE With his legs tied together , hanging head down from the end of a string , Grandfather Frog was being carried he knew not where by Farmer Brown 's boy .
It was dreadful .
Half-way across the Green Meadows the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind came dancing along .
At first they did n't see Grandfather Frog , but presently one of them , rushing up to tease Farmer Brown 's boy by blowing off his hat , caught sight of Grandfather Frog .
Now the Merry Little Breezes are great friends of Grandfather Frog .
Many , many times they have blown foolish green flies over to him as he sat on his big green lily-pad , and they are very fond of him .
So when this one caught sight of him in such a dreadful position , he forgot all about teasing Farmer Brown 's boy .
He raced away to tell the other Merry Little Breezes .
For a minute they were perfectly still .
They forgot all about being merry .
`` It 's awful , just perfectly awful ! ''
cried one .
`` We must do something to help Grandfather Frog ! ''
cried another .
`` Of course we must , '' said a third .
`` But what can we do ? ''
asked a fourth .
Nobody replied .
They just thought and thought and thought .
Finally the first one spoke .
`` We might try to comfort him a little , '' said he .
`` Of course we will do that ! ''
they shouted all together .
`` And if we throw dust in the face of Farmer Brown 's boy and steal his hat , perhaps he will put Grandfather Frog down , '' continued the Merry Little Breeze .
`` The very thing ! ''
the others cried , dancing about with excitement .
`` Then we can rush about and tell all Grandfather Frog 's friends what has happened to him and where he is .
Perhaps some of them can help us , '' the Little Breeze continued .
They wasted no more time talking , but raced after Farmer Brown 's boy as fast as they could go .
One of them , who was faster than the others , ran ahead and whispered in Grandfather Frog 's ear that they were coming to help him .
But poor old Grandfather Frog could n't be comforted .
He could n't see what there was that the Merry Little Breezes could do .
His legs smarted where the string cut into the skin , and his head ached , for you know he was hanging head down .
No , Sir , Grandfather Frog could n't be comforted .
He was in a terrible fix , and he could n't see any way out of it .
He had n't the least bit of hope left .
And all the time Farmer Brown 's boy was trudging along , whistling merrily .
You see , it did n't occur to him to think how Grandfather Frog must be suffering and how terribly frightened he must be .
He was n't cruel .
No , indeed , Farmer Brown 's boy was n't cruel .
That is , he did n't mean to be cruel .
He was just thoughtless , like a great many other boys , and girls too .
So he went whistling on his way until he reached the Long Lane leading from the Green Meadows up to Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
No sooner was he in the Long Lane than something happened .
A great cloud of dust and leaves and tiny sticks was dashed in his face and nearly choked him .
Dirt got in his eyes .
His hat was snatched from his head and went sailing over into the garden .
He dropped Grandfather Frog and felt for his handkerchief to wipe the dirt from his eyes .
`` Phew ! ''
exclaimed Farmer Brown 's boy , as he started after his hat .
`` It 's funny where that wind came from so suddenly ! ''
But you know and I know that it was the Merry Little Breezes working together who made up that sudden wind .
And Grandfather Frog ought to have known it too , but he did n't .
You see the dust had got in his nose and eyes just as it had in those of Farmer Brown 's boy , and he was so frightened and confused that he could n't think .
So he lay just where Farmer Brown 's boy dropped him , and he did n't have any more hope than before .
XVI THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES WORK HARD The Merry Little Breezes almost shouted aloud with delight when they saw Farmer Brown 's boy drop Grandfather Frog to feel for his handkerchief and wipe out the dust which they had thrown in his eyes .
Then he had to climb the fence and chase his hat through the garden .
They would let him almost get his hands on it and then , just as he thought that he surely had it , they would snatch it away .
It was great fun for the Merry Little Breezes .
But they were not doing it for fun .
No , indeed , they were not doing it for fun !
They were doing it to lead Farmer Brown 's boy away from Grandfather Frog .
Just as soon as they dared , they dropped the hat and then separated and rushed away in all directions across the Green Meadows , over to the Green Forest , and down to the Smiling Pool .
What were they going for ?
Why , to hunt for some of Grandfather Frog 's friends and ask their help .
You see , the Merry Little Breezes could make Farmer Brown 's boy drop Grandfather Frog , but they could n't untie a knot or cut a string , and this is just what had got to be done to set Grandfather Frog free , for his hind-legs were tied together .
So now they were looking for some one with sharp teeth , who thought enough of Grandfather Frog to come and help him .
One thought of Striped Chipmunk and started for the old stone wall to look for him .
Another went in search of Danny Meadow Mouse .
A third headed for the dear Old Briar-patch after Peter Rabbit .
A fourth remembered Jimmy Skunk and how he had once set Blacky the Crow free from a snare .
A fifth remembered what sharp teeth Happy Jack Squirrel has and hurried over to the Green Forest to look for him .
A sixth started straight for the Smiling Pool to tell Jerry Muskrat .
And every one of them raced as fast as he could .
All this time Grandfather Frog was without hope .
Yes , Sir , poor old Grandfather Frog was wholly in despair .
You see , he did n't know what the Merry Little Breezes were trying to do , and he was so frightened and confused that he could n't think .
When Farmer Brown 's boy dropped him , he lay right where he fell for a few minutes .
Then , right close at hand , he saw an old board .
Without really thinking , he tried to get to it , for there looked as if there might be room for him to hide under it .
It was hard work , for you know his long hind-legs , which he uses for jumping , were tied together .
The best he could do was to crawl and wriggle and pull himself along .
Just as Farmer Brown 's boy started to climb the fence back into the Long Lane , his hat in his hand , Grandfather Frog reached the old board and crawled under it .
Now when the Merry Little Breezes had thrown the dust in Farmer Brown 's boy 's face and snatched his hat , he had dropped Grandfather Frog in such a hurry that he did n't notice just where he did drop him , so now he did n't know the exact place to look for him .
But he knew pretty near , and he had n't the least doubt but that he would find him .
He had just started to look when the dinner horn sounded .
Farmer Brown 's boy hesitated .
He was hungry .
If he was late , he might lose his dinner .
He could come back later to look for Grandfather Frog , for with his legs tied Grandfather Frog could n't get far .
So , with a last look to make sure of the place , Farmer Brown 's boy started for the house .
If the Merry Little Breezes had known this , they would have felt ever so much better .
But they did n't .
So they hurried as fast as ever they could to find Grandfather Frog 's friends and worked until they were almost too tired to move , for it seemed as if every single one of Grandfather Frog 's friends had taken that particular day to go away from home .
So while Farmer Brown 's boy ate his dinner , and Grandfather Frog lay hiding under the old board in the Long Lane , the Merry Little Breezes did their best to find help for him .
XVII STRIPED CHIPMUNK CUTS THE STRING `` Hippy hop !
Flippy flop !
All on a summer day My mother turned me from the house and sent me out to play ! ''
Striped Chipmunk knew perfectly well that that was just nonsense , but Striped Chipmunk learned a long time ago that when you are just bubbling right over with good feeling , there is fun in saying and doing foolish things , and that is just how he was feeling .
So he ran along the old rail fence on one side of the Long Lane , saying foolish things and cutting up foolish capers just because he felt so good , and all the time seeing all that those bright little eyes of his could take in .
Now Striped Chipmunk and the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind are great friends , very great friends , indeed .
Almost every morning they have a grand frolic together .
But this morning the Merry Little Breezes had n't come over to the old stone wall where Striped Chipmunk makes his home .
Anyway , they had n't come at the usual time .
Striped Chipmunk had waited a little while and then , because he was feeling so good , he had decided to take a run down the Long Lane to see if anything new had happened there .
That is how it happened that when one of the Merry Little Breezes did go to look for him , and was terribly anxious to ask him to come to the help of Grandfather Frog , he was nowhere to be found .
But Striped Chipmunk did n't know anything about that .
He scampered along the top rails of the old fence , jumped up on top of a post , and sat up to wash his face and hands , for Striped Chipmunk is very neat and can not bear to be the least bit dirty .
He looked up and winked at Ol' Mistah Buzzard , sailing round and round way , way up in the blue , blue sky .
He chased his own tail round and round until he nearly fell off of the post .
He made a wry face in the direction of Redtail the Hawk , whom he could see sitting in the top of a tall tree way over on the Green Meadows .
He scolded Bowser the Hound , who happened to come trotting up the Long Lane , and did n't stop scolding until Bowser was out of sight .
Then he kicked up his heels and whisked along the old fence again .
Half-way across a shaky old rail , he suddenly stopped .
His bright eyes had seen something that filled him with curiosity , quite as much curiosity as Peter Rabbit would have had .
It was a piece of string .
Yes , Sir , it was a piece of string .
Now Striped Chipmunk often had found pieces of string , so there was nothing particularly interesting in the string itself .
What did interest him and make him very curious was the fact that this piece of string kept moving .
Every few seconds it gave a little jerk .
Whoever heard of a piece of string moving all by itself ?
Certainly Striped Chipmunk never had .
He could n't understand it .
For a few minutes he watched it from the top rail of the old fence .
Then he scurried down to the ground and , a few steps at a time , stopping to watch sharply between each little run , he drew nearer and nearer to that queer acting string .
It gave him a funny feeling inside to see a string acting like that , so he was very careful not to get too near .
He looked at it from one side , then ran around and looked at it from the other side .
At last he got where he could see that one end of the string was under an old board , and then he began to understand .
Of course there was somebody hiding under that old board and jerking the string .
-LSB- Illustration : He seized the other end of the string and began to pull .
Page 88 .
-RSB- Striped Chipmunk sat down and scratched his head thoughtfully .
Whoever was pulling that string could n't be very big , or they would never have been able to crawl under that old board , therefore he need n't be afraid .
A gleam of mischief twinkled in Striped Chipmunk 's eyes .
He seized the other end of the string and began to pull .
Such a jerking and yanking as began right away !
But he held on and pulled harder .
Then out from under the old board appeared the queer webbed feet of Grandfather Frog tied together .
Striped Chipmunk was so surprised that he let go of the string and nearly fell over backward .
`` Why , Grandfather Frog , what under the sun are you doing here ? ''
he shouted .
When Striped Chipmunk let go of the string , Grandfather Frog promptly drew his feet back under the old board , but when he heard Striped Chipmunk 's voice , he slowly and painfully crawled out .
He told how he had been caught and tied by Farmer Brown 's boy and finally dropped near the old board .
He told how terribly frightened he was , and how sore his legs were .
Striped Chipmunk did n't wait for him to finish .
In a flash he was at work with his sharp teeth and had cut the cruel string before Grandfather Frog had finished his story .
XVIII GRANDFATHER FROG HURRIES AWAY When Striped Chipmunk cut the string that bound the long legs of Grandfather Frog together , Grandfather Frog was so relieved that he hardly knew what to do .
Of course he thanked Striped Chipmunk over and over again .
Striped Chipmunk said that it was nothing , just nothing at all , and that he was very glad indeed to help Grandfather Frog .
`` We folks who live out in the Great World have to help one another , '' said Striped Chipmunk , `` because we never know when we may need help ourselves .
Now you take my advice , Grandfather Frog , and go back to the Smiling Pool as fast as you can .
The Great World is no place for an old fellow like you , because you do n't know how to take care of yourself . ''
Now when he said that , Striped Chipmunk made a great mistake .
Old people never like to be told that they are old or that they do not know all there is to know .
Grandfather Frog straightened up and tried to look very dignified .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said he , `` I 'd have you to know , Striped Chipmunk , that people were coming to me for advice before you were born .
It was just an accident that Farmer Brown 's boy caught me , and I 'd like to see him do it again .
Yes , Sir , I 'd like to see him do it again ! ''
Dear me , dear me !
Grandfather Frog was boasting .
If he had been safe at home in the Smiling Pool , there might have been some excuse for boasting , but way over here in the Long Lane , not even knowing the way back to the Smiling Pool , it was foolish , very foolish indeed .
No one knew that better than Striped Chipmunk , but he has a great deal of respect for Grandfather Frog , and he knew too that Grandfather Frog was feeling very much out of sorts and very much mortified to think that he had been caught in such a scrape , so he put a hand over his mouth to hide a smile as he said : `` Of course he is n't going to catch you again .
I know how wise and smart you are , but you look to me very tired , and there are so many dangers out here in the Great World that it seems to me that the very best thing you can do is to go back to the Smiling Pool . ''
But Grandfather Frog is stubborn , you know .
He had started out to see the Great World , and he did n't want the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest to think that he was afraid .
The truth is , Grandfather Frog was more afraid of being laughed at than he was of the dangers around him , which shows just how foolish wise people can be sometimes .
So he shook his head .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said he , `` I am going to see the Great World first , and then I am going back to the Smiling Pool .
Do you happen to know where there is any water ?
I am very thirsty . ''
Now over on the other side of the Long Lane was a spring where Farmer Brown 's boy filled his jug with clear cold water to take with him to the cornfield when he had to work there .
Striped Chipmunk knew all about that spring , for he had been there for a drink many times .
So he told Grandfather Frog just where the spring was and how to get to it .
He even offered to show the way , but Grandfather Frog said that he would rather go alone .
`` Watch out , Grandfather Frog , and do n't fall in , because you might not be able to get out again , '' warned Striped Chipmunk .
Grandfather Frog looked up sharply to see if Striped Chipmunk was making fun of him .
The very idea of any one thinking that he , who had lived in the water all his life , could n't get out when he pleased !
But Striped Chipmunk looked really in earnest , so Grandfather Frog swallowed the quick retort on the tip of his tongue , thanked Striped Chipmunk , and hurried away to look for the spring , for he was very , very thirsty .
Besides , he was very , very hot , and he hurried still faster as he thought of the cool bath he would have when he found that spring .
XIX GRANDFATHER FROG JUMPS INTO MORE TROUBLE Some people are heedless and run into trouble .
Some people are stupid and walk into trouble .
Grandfather Frog was both heedless and stupid and jumped into trouble .
When Striped Chipmunk told him where the spring was , it seemed to him that he could n't wait to reach it .
You see , Grandfather Frog had spent all his life in the Smiling Pool , where he could get a drink whenever he wanted it by just reaching over the edge of his big green lily-pad .
Whenever he was too warm , all he had to do was to say `` Chugarum ! ''
and dive head first into the cool water .
So he was n't used to going a long time without water .
Jump , jump , jump !
Grandfather Frog was going as fast as ever he could in the direction Striped Chipmunk had pointed out .
Every three or four jumps he would stop for just a wee , wee bit of rest , then off he would go again , jump , jump , jump !
And each jump was a long one .
Peter Rabbit certainly would have been envious if he could have seen those long jumps of Grandfather Frog .
At last the ground began to grow damp .
The farther he went , the damper it grew .
Presently it became fairly wet , and there was a great deal of soft , cool , wet moss .
How good it did feel to Grandfather Frog 's poor tired feet !
`` Must be I 'm most there , '' said Grandfather Frog to himself , as he scrambled up on a big mossy hummock , so as to look around .
Right away he saw a little path from the direction of the Long Lane .
It led straight past the very hummock on which Grandfather Frog was sitting , and he noticed that where the ground was very soft and wet , old boards had been laid down .
That puzzled Grandfather Frog a great deal .
`` It 's a sure enough path , '' said he .
`` But what under the blue , blue sky does any one want to spoil it for by putting those boards there ? ''
You see , Grandfather Frog likes the soft wet mud , and he could n't understand how any one , even Farmer Brown 's boy , could prefer a hard dry path .
Of course he never had worn shoes himself , so he could n't understand why any one should want dry feet when they could just as well have wet ones .
He was still puzzling over it when he heard a sound that made him nearly lose his balance and tumble off the hummock .
It was a whistle , the whistle of Farmer Brown 's boy !
Grandfather Frog knew it right away , because he often had heard it over by the Smiling Pool .
The whistle came from over in the Long Lane .
Farmer Brown 's boy had had his dinner and was on his way back to look for Grandfather Frog where he had been dropped .
Grandfather Frog actually grinned as he thought how surprised Farmer Brown 's boy was going to be when he could find no trace of him .
Suddenly the smile seemed to freeze on Grandfather Frog 's face .
That whistle was coming nearer !
Farmer Brown 's boy had left the Long Lane and was coming along the little path .
The truth is , he was coming for a drink at the spring , but Grandfather Frog did n't think of this .
He was sure that in some way Farmer Brown 's boy had found out which way he had gone and was coming after him .
He crouched down as flat as he could on the big hummock and held his breath .
Farmer Brown 's boy went straight past .
Just a few steps beyond , he stopped and knelt down .
Peeping through the grass , Grandfather Frog saw him dip up beautiful clear water in an old cup and drink .
Then Grandfather Frog knew just where the spring was .
A few minutes later , Farmer Brown 's boy passed again , still whistling , on his way to the Long Lane .
Grandfather Frog waited only long enough to be sure that he had really gone .
Then , with bigger jumps than ever , he started for the spring .
A dozen long jumps , and he could see the water .
Two more jumps and then a long jump , and he had landed in the spring with a splash !
`` Chugarum ! ''
cried Grandfather Frog .
`` How good the water feels ! ''
And all the time , Grandfather Frog had jumped straight into more trouble .
XX GRANDFATHER FROG LOSES HEART Look before you leap ; The water may be deep .
That is the very best kind of advice , but most people find that out when it is too late .
Grandfather Frog did .
Of course he had heard that little verse all his life .
Indeed , he had been very fond of saying it to those who came to the Smiling Pool to ask his advice .
But Grandfather Frog seemed to have left all his wisdom behind him when he left the Smiling Pool to go out into the Great World .
You see , it is very hard work for any one whose advice has been sought to turn right around and take advice themselves .
So Grandfather Frog had been getting into scrapes ever since he started out on his foolish journey , and now here he was in still another , and he had landed in it head first , with a great splash .
Of course , when he had seen the cool , sparkling water of the spring , it had seemed to him that he just could n't wait another second to get into it .
He was so hot and dry and dreadfully thirsty and uncomfortable !
And so -- oh , dear me !
-- Grandfather Frog did n't look at all before he leaped .
No , Sir , he did n't !
He just dived in with a great long jump .
Oh , how good that water felt !
For a few minutes he could n't think of anything else .
It was cooler than the water of the Smiling Pool , because , as you know , it was a spring .
But it felt all the better for that , and Grandfather Frog just closed his eyes and floated there in pure happiness .
Presently he opened his eyes to look around .
Then he blinked them rapidly for a minute or so .
He rubbed them to make sure that he saw aright .
His heart seemed to sink way , way down towards his toes .
`` Chugarum ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog , `` Chugarum ! ''
And after that for a long time he did n't say a word .
You see , it was this way .
All around him rose perfectly straight smooth walls .
He could look up and see a little of the blue , blue sky right overhead and whispering leaves of trees and bushes .
Over the edge of the smooth straight wall grasses were bending .
But they were so far above his head , so dreadfully far !
There was n't any place to climb out !
Grandfather Frog was in a prison !
He did n't understand it at all , but it was so .
Of course , Farmer Brown 's boy could have told him all about it .
A long time before Farmer Brown himself had found that spring , and because the water was so clear and cold and pure , he had cleared away all the dirt and rubbish around it .
Then he had knocked the bottom out of a nice clean barrel and had dug down where the water bubbled up out of the sand and had set the barrel down in this hole and had filled in the bottom with clean white sand for the water to bubble up through .
About half-way up the barrel he had cut a little hole for the water to run out as fast as it bubbled in at the bottom .
Of course the water never could fill the barrel , because when it reached that hole , it ran out .
This left a straight , smooth wall up above , a wall altogether too high for Grandfather Frog to jump over from the inside .
Poor old Grandfather Frog !
He wished more than ever that he never , never had thought of leaving the Smiling Pool to see the Great World .
Round and round he swam , but he could n't see any way out of it .
The little hole where the water ran out was too small for him to squeeze through , as he found out by trying and trying .
So far as he could see , he had just got to stay there all the rest of his life .
Worse still , he knew that Farmer Brown 's boy sometimes came to the spring for a drink , for he had seen him do it .
That meant that the very next time he came , he would find Grandfather Frog , because there was no place to hide .
When Grandfather Frog thought of that , he just lost heart .
Yes , Sir , he just lost heart .
He gave up all hope of ever seeing the Smiling Pool again , and two big tears ran out of his big goggly eyes .
XXI THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES TRY TO COMFORT GRANDFATHER FROG When the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind had left Grandfather Frog in the Long Lane where Farmer Brown 's boy had dropped him , and had hurried as fast as ever they could to try to find some of his friends to help him , not one of them had been successful .
No one was at home , and no one was in any of the places where they usually were to be found .
The Merry Little Breezes looked and looked .
Then , one by one , they sadly turned back to the Long Lane .
They felt so badly that they just hated to go back where they had left Grandfather Frog .
When they got there , they found Striped Chipmunk , who now was scolding Farmer Brown 's boy as fast as his tongue could go .
`` Where is he ? ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes excitedly .
Striped Chipmunk stopped scolding long enough to point to Farmer Brown 's boy , who was hunting in the grass for some trace of Grandfather Frog .
`` We do n't mean him , you stupid !
We can see him for ourselves .
Where 's Grandfather Frog ? ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes , all speaking at once .
`` I do n't know , '' replied Striped Chipmunk , `` and what 's more , I do n't care ! ''
Now this was n't true , for Striped Chipmunk is n't that kind .
It was mostly talk , and the Merry Little Breezes knew it .
They knew that Striped Chipmunk really thinks a great deal of Grandfather Frog , just as they do .
So they pretended not to notice what he said or how put out he seemed .
After a while , he told them that he had set Grandfather Frog free and that then he had started for the spring on the other side of the Long Lane .
The Merry Little Breezes were delighted to hear the good news , and they said such a lot of nice things to Striped Chipmunk that he quite forgot to scold Farmer Brown 's boy .
Then they started for the spring , dancing merrily , for they felt sure that there Grandfather Frog was all right , and they expected to find him quite at home .
`` Hello , Grandfather Frog ! ''
they shouted , as they peeped into the spring .
`` How do you like your new home ? ''
Grandfather Frog made no reply .
He just rolled his great goggly eyes up at them , and they were full of tears .
`` Why -- why -- why , Grandfather Frog , what is the matter now ? ''
they cried .
`` Chugarum , '' said Grandfather Frog , and his voice sounded all choky , `` I ca n't get out . ''
Then they noticed for the first time how straight and smooth the walls of the spring were and how far down Grandfather Frog was , and they knew that he spoke the truth .
They tried bending down the grasses that grew around the edge of the spring , but none were long enough to reach the water .
If they had stopped to think , they would have known that Grandfather Frog could n't have climbed up by them , anyway .
Then they tried to lift a big stick into the spring , but it was too heavy for them , and they could n't move it .
However , they did manage to blow an old shingle in , and this gave Grandfather Frog something to sit on , so that he began to feel a little better .
Then they said all the comforting things they could think of .
They told him that no harm could come to him there , unless Farmer Brown 's boy should happen to see him .
-LSB- Illustration : `` That 's just what I 'm afraid of ! ''
croaked Grandfather Frog .
Page 109 . -RSB-
`` That 's just what I am afraid of ! ''
croaked Grandfather Frog .
`` He is sure to see me if he comes for a drink , for there is no place for me to hide . ''
`` Perhaps he wo n't come , '' said one of the Little Breezes hopefully .
`` If he does come , you can hide under the piece of shingle , and then he wo n't know you are here at all , '' said another .
Grandfather Frog brightened up .
`` That 's so ! ''
said he .
`` That 's a good idea , and I 'll try it . ''
Then one of the Merry Little Breezes promised to keep watch for Farmer Brown 's boy , and all the others started off on another hunt for some one to help Grandfather Frog out of this new trouble .
XXII GRANDFATHER FROG 'S TROUBLES GROW Head first in ; no way out ; It 's best to know what you 're about !
Grandfather Frog had had plenty of time to realize how very true this is .
As he sat on the old shingle which the Merry Little Breezes had blown into the spring where he was a prisoner , he thought a great deal about that little word `` if . ''
If he had n't left the Smiling Pool , if he had n't been stubborn and set in his ways , if he had n't been in such a hurry , if he had looked to see where he was leaping -- well , any one of these ifs would have kept him out of his present trouble .
It really was n't so bad in the spring .
That is , it would n't have been so bad but for the fear that Farmer Brown 's boy might come for a drink and find him there .
That was Grandfather Frog 's one great fear , and it gave him bad dreams whenever he tried to take a nap .
He grew cold all over at the very thought of being caught again by Farmer Brown 's boy , and when at last one of the Merry Little Breezes hurried up to tell him that Farmer Brown 's boy actually was coming , poor old Grandfather Frog was so frightened that the Merry Little Breeze had to tell him twice to hide under the old shingle as it floated on the water .
At last he got it through his head , and drawing a very long breath , he dived into the water and swam under the old shingle .
He was just in time .
Yes , Sir , he was just in time .
If Farmer Brown 's boy had n't been thinking of something else , he certainly would have noticed the little rings on the water made by Grandfather Frog when he dived in .
But he was thinking of something else , and it was n't until he dipped a cup in for the second time that he even saw the old shingle .
`` Hello ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` That must have blown in since I was here yesterday .
We ca n't have anything like that in our nice spring . ''
With that he reached out for the old shingle , and Grandfather Frog , hiding under it , gave himself up for lost .
But the anxious Little Breeze had been watching sharply and the instant he saw what Farmer Brown 's boy was going to do , he played the old , old trick of snatching his hat from his head .
The truth is , he could n't think of anything else to do .
Farmer Brown 's boy grabbed at his hat , and then , because he was in a hurry and had other things to do , he started off without once thinking of the old shingle again .
`` Chugarum ! ''
cried Grandfather Frog , as he swam out from under the shingle and climbed up on it , `` That certainly was a close call .
If I have many more like it , I certainly shall die of fright . ''
Nothing more happened for a long time , and Grandfather Frog was wondering if it would n't be safe to take a nap when he saw peeping over the edge above him two eyes .
They were greenish yellow eyes , and they stared and stared .
Grandfather Frog stared and stared back .
He just could n't help it .
He did n't know who they belonged to .
He could n't remember ever having seen them before .
He was afraid , and yet somehow he could n't make up his mind to jump .
He stared so hard at the eyes that he did n't notice a long furry paw slowly , very slowly , reaching down towards him .
Nearer it crept and nearer .
Then suddenly it moved like a flash .
Grandfather Frog felt sharp claws in his white and yellow waistcoat , and before he could even open his mouth to cry `` Chugarum , '' he was sent flying through the air and landed on his back in the grass .
Pounce !
Two paws pinned him down , and the greenish yellow eyes were not an inch from his own .
They belonged to Black Pussy , Farmer Brown 's cat .
XXIII THE DEAR OLD SMILING POOL ONCE MORE Black Pussy was having a good time .
Grandfather Frog was n't .
It was great fun for Black Pussy to slip a paw under Grandfather Frog and toss him up in the air .
It was still more fun to pretend to go away , but to hide instead , and the instant Grandfather Frog started off , to pounce upon him and cuff him and roll him about .
But there was n't any fun in it for Grandfather Frog .
In the first place , he did n't know whether or not Black Pussy liked Frogs to eat , and he was terribly frightened .
In the second place , Black Pussy did n't always cover up her claws , and they pricked right through Grandfather Frog 's white and yellow waistcoat and hurt , for he is very tender there .
At last Black Pussy grew tired of playing , so catching up Grandfather Frog in her mouth , she started along the little path from the spring to the Long Lane .
Grandfather Frog did n't even kick , which was just as well , because if he had , Black Pussy would have held him tighter , and that would have been very uncomfortable indeed .
`` It 's all over , and this is the end , '' moaned Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'm going to be eaten now .
Oh , why , why did I ever leave the Smiling Pool ? ''
Just as Black Pussy slipped into the Long Lane , Grandfather Frog heard a familiar sound .
It was a whistle , a merry whistle .
It was the whistle of Farmer Brown 's boy .
It was coming nearer and nearer .
A little bit of hope began to stir in the heart of Grandfather Frog .
He did n't know just why , but it did .
Always he had been in the greatest fear of Farmer Brown 's boy , but now -- well , if Farmer Brown 's boy should take him , he might get away from him as he did before , but he was very sure that he never , never could get away from Black Pussy .
The whistle drew nearer .
Black Pussy stopped .
Then she began to make a queer whirring sound deep down in her throat .
`` Hello , Black Pussy !
Have you been hunting ?
Come here and show me what you 've got , '' cried a voice .
Black Pussy arched up her back and began to rub against the legs of Farmer Brown 's boy , and all the time the whir , ring sound in her throat grew louder and louder .
Farmer Brown 's boy stooped down to see what she had in her mouth .
`` Why , '' he exclaimed , `` I do believe this is the very same old frog that got away from me !
You do n't want him , Puss .
I 'll just put him in my pocket and take him up to the house by and by . ''
With that he took Grandfather Frog from Black Pussy and dropped him in his pocket .
He patted Black Pussy , called her a smart cat , and then started on his way , whistling merrily .
It was dark and rather close in that pocket , but Grandfather Frog did n't mind this .
It was a lot better than feeling sharp teeth and claws all the time .
He wondered how soon they would reach the house and what would happen to him then .
After what seemed like a long , long time , he felt himself swung through the air , and then he landed on the ground with a thump that made him grunt .
Farmer Brown 's boy had taken off his coat and thrown it down .
The whistling stopped .
Everything was quiet .
Grandfather Frog waited and listened , but not a sound could he hear .
Then he saw a little ray of light creeping into his prison .
He squirmed and pushed , and all of a sudden he was out of the pocket .
The bright light made him blink .
As soon as he could see , he looked to see where he was .
Then he rubbed his eyes with both hands and looked again .
He was n't at Farmer Brown 's house at all .
Where do you think he was ?
Why , right on the bank of the Smiling Pool , and a little way off was Farmer Brown 's boy fishing !
`` Chugarum ! ''
cried Grandfather Frog , and it was the loudest , gladdest chugarum that the Smiling Pool ever had heard .
`` Chugarum ! ''
he cried again , and with a great leap he dived with a splash into the dear old Smiling Pool , which smiled more than ever .
And never again has Grandfather Frog tried to see the Great World .
He is quite content to leave it to those who like to dwell there .
And since his own wonderful adventures , he has been ready to believe anything he is told about what happens there .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Jerry_Muskrat.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Jerry Muskrat Has A Fright What was it Mother Muskrat had said about Farmer Brown 's boy and his traps ?
Jerry Muskrat sat on the edge of the Big Rock and kicked his heels while he tried to remember .
The fact is , Jerry had not half heeded .
He had been thinking of other things .
Besides , it seemed to him that Mother Muskrat was altogether foolish about a great many things .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Jerry , throwing out his chest , `` I guess I can take care of myself without being tied to my mother 's apron strings !
What if Farmer Brown 's boy is setting traps around the Smiling Pool ?
I guess he ca n't fool your Uncle Jerry .
He is n't so smart as he thinks he is ; I can fool him any day . ''
Jerry chuckled .
He was thinking of how he had once fooled Farmer Brown 's boy into thinking a big trout was on his hook .
Slowly Jerry slid into the Smiling Pool and swam over towards his favorite log .
Peter Rabbit stuck his head over the edge of the bank .
`` Hi , Jerry , '' he shouted , `` last night I saw Farmer Brown 's boy coming over this way with a lot of traps .
Better watch out ! ''
`` Go chase yourself , Peter Rabbit .
I guess I can look out for myself , '' replied Jerry , just a little crossly .
Peter made a wry face and started for the sweet clover patch .
Hardly was he out of sight when Billy Mink and Bobby Coon came down the Laughing Brook together .
They seemed very much excited .
When they saw Jerry Muskrat , they beckoned for him to come over where they were , and when he got there , they both talked at once , and it was all about Farmer Brown 's boy and his traps .
`` You 'd better watch out , Jerry , '' warned Billy Mink , who is a great traveler and has had wide experience .
`` Oh , I guess I 'm able to take care of myself , '' said Jerry airily , and once more started for his favorite log .
And what do you suppose he was thinking about as he swam along ?
He was wishing that he knew what a trap looked like , for despite his boasting he did n't even know what he was to look out for .
As he drew near his favorite log , something tickled his nose .
He stopped swimming to sniff and sniff .
My , how good it did smell !
And it seemed to come right straight from the old log .
Jerry began to swim as fast as he could .
In a few minutes he scrambled out on the old log .
Then Jerry rubbed his eyes three times to be sure that he saw aright .
There were luscious pieces of carrot lying right in front of him .
Now there is nothing that Jerry Muskrat likes better than carrot .
So he did n't stop to wonder how it got there .
He just reached out for the nearest piece and ate it .
Then he reached for the next piece and ate it .
Then he did a funny little dance just for joy .
When he was quite out of breath , he sat down to rest .
Snap !
Something had Jerry Muskrat by the tail !
Jerry squealed with fright and pain .
Oh , how it did hurt !
He twisted and turned , but he was held fast and could not see what had him .
Then he pulled and pulled , until it seemed as if his tail would pull off .
But it did n't .
So he kept pulling , and pretty soon the thing let go so suddenly that Jerry tumbled head first into the water .
When he reached home , Mother Muskrat did his sore tail up for him .
`` What did I tell you about traps ? ''
she asked severely .
Jerry stopped crying .
`` Was that a trap ? ''
he asked .
Then he remembered that in his fright he did n't even see it .
`` Oh , dear , '' he moaned , `` I would n't know one to-day if I met it . ''
CHAPTER II : The Convention At The Big Rock Jolly round , red Mr. Sun looked down on the Smiling Pool .
He almost forgot to keep on climbing up in the blue sky , he was so interested in what he saw there .
What do you think it was ?
Why , it was a convention at the Big Rock , the queerest convention he ever had seen .
Your papa would say that it was a mass-meeting of angry citizens .
Maybe it was , but that is a pretty long term .
Anyway , Mother Muskrat said it was a convention , and she ought to know , for she is the one who had called it .
Of course Jerry Muskrat was there , and his uncles and aunts and all his cousins .
Billy Mink was there , and all his relations , even old Grandfather Mink , who has lost most of his teeth and is a little hard of hearing .
Little Joe Otter was there , with his father and mother and all his relations even to his third cousins .
Bobby Coon was there , and he had brought with him every Coon of his acquaintance who ever fished in the Smiling Pool or along the Laughing Brook .
And everybody was looking very solemn , very solemn indeed .
When the last one had arrived , Mother Muskrat climbed up on the Big Rock and called Jerry Muskrat up beside her , where all could see him .
Then she made a speech .
`` Friends of the Smiling Pool and Laughing Brook , '' began Mrs. Muskrat , `` I have called you together to show you what has happened to my son Jerry and to ask your advice . ''
She stopped and pointed to Jerry 's sore tail .
`` What do you think did that ? ''
she demanded .
`` Probably Jerry 's been in a fight and got whipped , '' said Bobby Coon to his neighbor , for Bobby Coon is a graceless young scamp and does not always show proper respect to his neighbors .
Mrs. Muskrat glared at him , for she had overheard the remark .
Then she held up one hand to command silence .
`` Friends , it was a trap -- a trap set by Farmer Brown 's boy !
a trap to catch you and me and our children ! ''
said she solemnly .
`` It is no longer safe for our little folks to play around the Smiling Pool or along the Laughing Brook .
What are we going to do about it ? ''
Everybody looked at everybody else in dismay .
Then everybody began to talk at once , and if Farmer Brown 's boy could have heard all the things said about him , his cheeks certainly would have burned .
Indeed , I am afraid that they would have blistered .
Such excitement !
Everybody had a different idea , and nobody would listen to anybody else .
Old Mr. Mink lost his temper and called Grandpa Otter a meddlesome know-nothing .
It looked very much as if the convention was going to break up in a sad quarrel .
Then Mr. Coon climbed up on the Big Rock and with a stick pounded for silence .
`` I move , '' said he , `` that in as much as we can not agree , we tell Great-Grandfather Frog all about the danger and ask his advice , for he is very old and very wise and remembers when the world was young .
All in favor please raise their right hands . ''
At once the air was full of hands , and everybody was good-natured once more .
So it was agreed to call in Great-Grandfather Frog .
CHAPTER III : The Oracle Of The Smiling Pool Grandfather Frog sat on his big green lily-pad with his eyes half closed , for all the world as if he knew nothing about the meeting at the Big Rock .
Of course he did know , for there is n't much going on around the Smiling Pool which he does n't see or at least hear all about .
The Merry Little Breezes , who are here , there , and everywhere , told him all that was going on , so that when he saw Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter swimming towards him , he knew what they were coming for .
But he pretended to be very much surprised when Jerry Muskrat very politely said : `` Good morning , Grandfather Frog . ''
`` Good morning , Jerry Muskrat .
You 're out early this morning , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` If you please , you are wanted over at the Big Rock , '' said Jerry .
Grandfather Frog 's eyes twinkled , but he made his voice very deep and gruff as he replied : `` Chugarum !
You 're a scamp , Jerry Muskrat , and Little Joe Otter is another .
What trick are you trying to play on me now ? ''
Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter looked a wee bit sheepish , for it was true that they were forever trying to play tricks on Grandfather Frog .
`` Really and truly , Grandfather Frog , there is n't any trick this time , '' said Jerry .
`` There is a meeting at the Big Rock to try to decide what to do to keep Farmer Brown 's boy from setting traps around the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook , and everybody wants your advice , because you are so old and so wise .
Please come . ''
Grandfather Frog smoothed down his white and yellow waistcoat and pretended to think the matter over very seriously , while Jerry and Little Joe fidgeted impatiently .
Finally he spoke .
`` I am very old , as you have said , Jerry Muskrat , and it is a long way over to the Big Rock . ''
`` Get right on my back and I 'll take you over there , '' said Jerry eagerly .
`` I 'm afraid that you 'll spill me off , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` No , I wo n't ; just try me and see , '' begged Jerry .
So Grandfather Frog climbed on Jerry Muskrat 's back , and Jerry started for the Big Rock as fast as he could go .
When all the Minks and the Otters and the Coons and the Muskrats saw them coming , they gave a great shout , for Grandfather Frog is sometimes called the oracle of the Smiling Pool .
You know an oracle is one who is very wise .
Bobby Coon helped Grandfather Frog up on the Big Rock , and when he had made himself comfortable , Mrs. Muskrat told him all about Farmer Brown 's boy and his traps , and how Jerry had been caught in one by the tail , and she ended by asking for his advice , because they all knew that he was so wise .
When she said this , Grandfather Frog puffed himself up until it seemed as if his white and yellow waistcoat would surely burst .
He sat very still for a while and gazed straight at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun without blinking once .
Then he spoke in a very deep voice .
`` To-morrow morning at sunrise I will tell you what to do , '' said he .
And not another word could they get out of him .
CHAPTER IV : Grandfather Frog 's Plan Just as Old Mother West Wind and her Merry Little Breezes came down from the Purple Hills , and jolly , round , red Mr. Sun threw his nightcap off and began his daily climb up in the blue sky , Great-Grandfather Frog climbed up on the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool .
Early as he was , all the little people who live along the Laughing Brook and around the Smiling Pool were waiting for him .
Bobby Coon had found two traps set by Farmer Brown 's boy , and Billy Mink had almost stepped in a third .
No one felt safe any more , yet no one knew what to do .
So they all waited for the advice of Great-Grandfather Frog , who , you know , is accounted very , very wise .
Grandfather Frog cleared his throat .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said he .
`` You must find all the traps that Farmer Brown 's boy has set . ''
`` How are we going to do it ? ''
asked Bobby Coon .
`` By looking for them , '' replied Grandfather Frog tartly .
Bobby Coon looked foolish and slipped out of sight behind his mother .
`` All the Coons and all the Minks must search along the banks of the Laughing Brook , and all the Muskrats and all the Otters must search along the banks of the Smiling Pool .
You must use your eyes and your noses .
When you find things good to eat where you have never found them before , watch out !
When you get the first whiff of the man-smell , watch out !
Billy Mink , you are small and quick , and your eyes are sharp .
You sit here on the Big Rock until you see Farmer Brown 's boy coming .
Then go hide in the bulrushes where you can watch him , but where he can not see you .
Follow him everywhere he goes around the Smiling Pool or along the Laughing Brook .
Without knowing it , he will show you where every trap is hidden .
`` When all the traps have been found , drop a stick or a stone in each .
That will spring them , and then they will be harmless .
Then you can bury them deep in the mud .
But do n't eat any of the food until you have sprung all of the traps , for just as likely as not you will get caught .
When all the traps have been sprung , why not bring all the good things to eat which you find around them to the Big Rock and have a grand feast ? ''
`` Hurrah for Grandfather Frog !
That 's a great idea ! ''
shouted Little Joe Otter , turning a somersault in the water .
Every one agreed with Little Joe Otter , and immediately they began to plan a grand hunt for the traps of Farmer Brown 's boy .
The Muskrats and the Otters started to search the banks of the Smiling Pool , and the Coons and the Minks , all but Billy , started for the Laughing Brook .
Billy climbed up on the Big Rock to watch , and Grandfather Frog slowly swam back to his big green lily-pad to wait for some foolish green flies for his breakfast .
CHAPTER V : A Busy Day At The Smiling Pool Everybody was excited .
Yes , Sir , everybody in the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook was just bubbling over with excitement .
Even Spotty the Turtle , who usually takes everything so calmly that some people think him stupid , climbed up on the highest point of an old log where he could see what was going on .
Only Grandfather Frog , sitting on his big green lily-pad and watching for foolish green flies for his breakfast , appeared not to know that something unusual was going on .
Really , he was just as much excited as the rest , but because he is very old and accounted very , very wise , it would not do for him to show it .
What was it all about ?
Why , all the Minks and the Coons and the Otters and the Muskrats , who live and play around the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook , were hunting for traps .
Yes , Sir , they were hunting for traps set by Farmer Brown 's boy , just as Grandfather Frog had advised them to .
Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter were hunting together .
They were swimming along close to shore just where the Laughing Brook leaves the Smiling Pool , when Jerry wrinkled up his funny little nose and stopped swimming .
Sniff , sniff , sniff , went Jerry Muskrat .
Then little cold shivers ran down his backbone and way out to the tip of his tail .
`` What is it ? ''
asked Little Joe Otter .
`` It 's the man-smell , '' whispered Jerry .
Just then Little Joe Otter gave a long sniff .
`` My , I smell fish ! ''
he cried , his eyes sparkling , and started in the direction from which the smell came .
He swam faster than Jerry , and in a minute he shouted in delight .
`` Hi , Jerry !
Some one 's left a fish on the edge of the bank : What a feast ! ''
Jerry hurried as fast as he could swim , his eyes popping out with fright , for the nearer he got , the stronger grew that dreadful man-smell .
`` Do n't touch it , '' he panted .
`` Do n't touch it , Joe Otter ! ''
Little Joe laughed .
`` What 's the matter , Jerry ?
` Fraid I 'll eat it all up before you get here ? ''
he asked , as he reached out for the fish .
`` Stop ! ''
shrieked Jerry , and gave Little Joe a push , just as the latter touched the fish .
Snap !
A pair of wicked steel jaws flew together and caught Little Joe Otter by a claw of one toe .
If it had n't been for Jerry 's push , he would have been caught by a foot .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Oh ! ''
cried Little Joe Otter .
`` Next time I guess you 'll remember what Grandfather Frog said about watching out when you find things to eat where they never were before , '' said Jerry , as he helped Little Joe pull himself free from the trap .
But he left the claw behind and had a dreadfully sore toe as a result .
Then they buried the trap deep down in the mud and started to look for another .
All around the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook their cousins and uncles and aunts and friends were just as busy , and every once in a while some one would have just as narrow an escape as Little Joe Otter .
And all the time up at the farmhouse Farmer Brown 's boy was planning what he would do with the skins of the little animals he was sure he would catch in his traps .
CHAPTER VI : Farmer Brown 's Boy Is Puzzled Farmer Brown 's boy was whistling merrily as he tramped down across the Green Meadows .
The Merry Little Breezes saw him coming , and they raced over to the Smiling Pool to tell Billy Mink .
Farmer Brown 's boy was coming to visit his traps .
He was very sure that he would find Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter , or Jerry Muskrat , or perhaps Bobby Coon .
Billy Mink was sitting on top of the Big Rock .
He saw the Merry Little Breezes racing across the Green Meadows , and behind them he saw Farmer Brown 's boy .
Billy Mink dived head first into the Smiling Pool .
Then he swam over to Jerry Muskrat 's house and warned Jerry .
Together they hunted up Little Joe Otter , and then the three little scamps in brown hid in the bulrushes , where they could watch Farmer Brown 's boy .
The first place Farmer Brown 's boy visited was Jerry Muskrat 's old log .
Very cautiously he peeped over the edge of the bank .
The trap was gone !
`` Hurrah ! ''
shouted Farmer Brown 's boy .
He was very much excited , as he caught hold of the end of the chain , which fastened it to the old log .
He was sure that at last he had caught Jerry Muskrat .
When he pulled the trap up , it was empty .
Between the jaws were a few hairs and a little bit of skin , which Jerry Muskrat had left there when he sprung the trap with his tail .
Farmer Brown 's boy was disappointed .
`` Well , I 'll get him to-morrow , anyway , '' said he to himself .
Then he went on to his next trap ; it was nowhere to be seen .
When he pulled the chain he was so excited that he trembled .
The trap did not come up at once .
He pulled and pulled , and then suddenly up it came , all covered with mud .
In it was one little claw from Little Joe Otter .
Very carefully Farmer Brown 's boy set the trap again .
If he could have looked over in the bulrushes and have seen Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat watching him and tickling and laughing , he would not have been so sure that next time he would catch Little Joe Otter .
All around the Smiling Pool and then up and down the Laughing Brook Farmer Brown 's boy tramped , and each trap he found sprung and buried in the mud .
He had stopped whistling by this time , and there was a puzzled frown on his freckled face .
What did it mean ?
Could some other boy have found all his traps and played a trick by springing all of them ?
The more he thought about it , the more puzzled he became .
You see , he did not know anything about the busy day the Minks and the Otters and the Muskrats and the Coons had spent the day before .
Old Grandfather Frog , sitting on his big green lily-pad , smoothed down his white and yellow waistcoat and winked up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun as Farmer Brown 's boy tramped off across the Green Meadows .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , as he snapped up a foolish green fly .
`` Much good it will do you to set those traps again ! ''
Then Grandfather Frog called to Billy Mink and sent him to tell all the other little people of the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook that they must hurry and spring all the traps again as they had before .
This time it was easy , because they knew just where the traps were , so all day long they dropped sticks and stones into the traps and once more sprung them .
Then they prepared for a grand feast of the good things to eat which Farmer Brown 's boy had left , scattered around the traps .
CHAPTER VII : Jerry Muskrat Makes A Discovery The beautiful springtime had brought a great deal of happiness to the Smiling Pool , as it had to the Green Meadows and to the Green Forest .
Great-Grandfather Frog , who had slept the long winter away in his own special bed way down in the mud , had waked up with an appetite so great that for a while it seemed as if he could think of nothing but his stomach .
Jerry Muskrat had felt the spring fever in his bones and had gone up and down the Laughing Brook , poking into all kinds of places just for the fun of seeing new things .
Little Joe Otter had been more full of fun than ever , if that were possible .
Mr. and Mrs. Redwing had come back to the bulrushes from their winter home way down in the warm Southland .
Everybody was happy , just as happy as could be .
One sunny morning Jerry Muskrat sat on the Big Rock in the middle of the Smiling Pool , just thinking of how happy everybody was and laughing at Little Joe Otter , who was cutting up all sorts of capers in the water .
Suddenly Jerry 's sharp eyes saw something that made him wrinkle his forehead in a puzzled frown and look and look at the opposite bank .
Finally he called to Little Joe Otter .
`` Hi , Little Joe !
Come over here ! ''
shouted Jerry .
`` What for ? ''
asked Little Joe , turning a somersault in the water .
`` I want you to see if there is anything wrong with my eyes , '' replied Jerry .
Little Joe Otter stopped swimming and stared up at Jerry Muskrat .
`` They look all right to me , '' said he , as he started to climb up on the Big Rock .
`` Of course they look all right , '' replied Jerry , `` but what I want to know is if they see all right .
Look over at that bank . ''
Little Joe Otter looked over at the bank .
He stared and stared , but he did n't see anything unusual .
It looked just as it always did .
He told Jerry Muskrat so .
`` Then it must be my eyes , '' sighed Jerry .
`` It certainly must be my eyes .
It looks to me as if the water does not come as high up on the bank as it did yesterday . ''
Little Joe Otter looked again and his eyes opened wide .
`` You are right , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
he cried .
`` There 's nothing the matter with your eyes .
The water is as low as it ever gets , even in the very middle of summer .
What can it mean ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' replied Jerry Muskrat .
`` It is queer !
It certainly is very queer !
Let 's go ask Grandfather Frog .
You know he is very old and very wise , so perhaps he can tell us what it means . ''
Splash !
Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter dived into the Smiling Pool and started a race to see who could reach Grandfather Frog first .
He was sitting among the bulrushes on the edge of the Smiling Pool , for the lily-pads were not yet big enough for him to sit on comfortably .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , what 's the matter with the Smiling Pool ? ''
they shouted , as they came up quite out of breath .
`` Chugarum !
There 's nothing the matter with the Smiling Pool ; it 's the best place in all the world , '' replied Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` But there is something the matter , '' insisted Jerry Muskrat , and then he told what he had discovered .
`` I do n't believe it , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` I never heard of such a thing in the springtime . ''
CHAPTER VIII : Grandfather Frog Watches His Toes Grandfather Frog sat among the bulrushes on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
Over his head Mr. Redwing was singing as if his heart would burst with the very joy of springtime .
`` Tra-la-la-lee , see me !
See me !
Happy am I as I can be !
Happy am I the whole day long And so I sing my gladsome song . ''
Of course Mr. Redwing was happy .
Why should n't he be ?
Here it was the beautiful springtime , the gladdest time of all the year , the time when happiness creeps into everybody 's heart .
Grandfather Frog listened .
He nodded his head .
`` Chugarum !
I 'm happy , too , '' said Grandfather Frog .
But even as he said it , a little worried look crept into his big goggly eyes and then down to the corners of his big mouth , which had been stretched in a smile .
Little by little the smile grew smaller and smaller , until there was n't any smile .
No , Sir , there was n't any smile .
Instead of looking happy , as he said he felt , Grandfather Frog actually looked unhappy .
The fact is he could n't forget what Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter had told him -- that there was something the matter with the Smiling Pool .
He did n't believe it , not a word of it .
At least he tried to make himself think that he did n't believe it .
They had said that the water in the Smiling Pool was growing lower and lower , just as it did in the middle of summer , in the very hottest weather .
Now Grandfather Frog is very old and very wise , and he had never heard of such a thing happening in the springtime .
So he would n't believe it now .
And yet -- and yet Grandfather Frog had an uncomfortable feeling that something was wrong .
Ha !
he knew now what it was !
He had been sitting up to his middle in water , and now he was sitting with only his toes in the water , and he could n't remember having changed his position !
`` Of course , I moved without thinking what I was doing , '' muttered Grandfather Frog , but still the worried look did n't leave his face .
You see he just could n't make himself believe what he wanted to believe , try as he would .
`` Chugarum !
I know what I 'll do ; I 'll watch my toes ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog .
So Grandfather Frog waded out into the water until it covered his feet , and then he sat down and began to watch his toes .
Mr. Redwing looked down and saw him , and Grandfather Frog looked so funny gazing at his own toes that Mr. Redwing stopped singing long enough to ask : `` What are you doing , Grandfather Frog ? ''
`` Watching my toes , '' replied Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Watching your toes !
Ho , ho , ho !
Watching your toes !
Who ever heard of such a thing ?
Are you afraid that they will run away , Grandfather Frog ? ''
shouted Mr. Redwing .
Grandfather Frog did n't answer .
He kept right on watching his toes .
Mr. Redwing flew away to tell everybody he met how Grandfather Frog had become foolish and was watching his toes .
The sun shone down warm and bright , and pretty soon Grandfather Frog 's big goggly eyes began to blink .
Then his head began to nod , and then -- why , then Grandfather Frog fell fast asleep .
By and by Grandfather Frog awoke with a start .
He looked down at his toes .
They were not in the water at all !
Indeed , the water was a good long jump away .
`` Chugarum !
There is something wrong with the Smiling Pool ! ''
cried Grandfather Frog , as he made a long jump into the water and started to swim out to the Big Rock .
CHAPTER IX : The Laughing Brook Stops Laughing There was something wrong .
Grandfather Frog knew it the very minute he got up that morning .
At first he could n't think what it was .
He sat with just his head out of water and blinked his great goggly eyes , as he tried to think what it was that was wrong .
Suddenly Grandfather Frog realized how still it was .
It was a different kind of stillness from anything he could ever remember .
He missed something , and he could n't think what it was .
It was n't the song of Mr. Redwing .
There were many times when he did n't hear that .
It was -- Grand-father Frog gave a startled jump out on to the shore .
`` Chugarum !
It 's the Laughing Brook !
The Laughing Brook has stopped laughing ! ''
cried Grandfather Frog .
Could it be ?
Who ever heard of such a thing , excepting when Jack Frost bound the Laughing Brook with hard black ice ?
Why , in the spring and in the summer and in the fall the Laughing Brook had laughed -- such a merry , happy laugh -- ever since Grandfather Frog could remember , and you know he can remember way back in the long ago , for he is very old and very wise .
Never once in all that time had the Laughing Brook failed to laugh .
It could n't be true now !
Grandfather Frog put a hand behind one ear and listened and listened , but not a sound could he hear .
`` Chugarum !
It must be me , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` It must be that I am growing old and deaf .
I 'll go over and ask Jerry Muskrat . ''
So Grandfather Frog dove into the water and swam out to the middle of the Smiling Pool , on his way to Jerry Muskrat 's house .
It was then that he first fully realized the truth of what Jerry Muskrat and Little Joe Otter had told him the day before -- that there was something very , very wrong with the Smiling Pool .
He stopped swimming to look around , and it seemed as if his great goggly eyes would pop right out of his head .
Yes , Sir , it seemed as if those great goggly eyes certainly would pop right out of Grandfather Frog 's head .
The Smiling Pool had grown so small that there was n't enough of it left to smile !
`` Where are you going , Grandfather Frog ? ''
asked a voice over his head .
Grandfather Frog looked up .
Looking down on him from over the edge of the Big Rock was Jerry Muskrat .
The edge of the Big Rock was twice as high above the water as Grandfather Frog had ever seen it before .
`` I -- I -- was going to swim over to your house to see you , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` It 's of no use , '' replied Jerry , `` because I 'm not there .
Besides , you could n't swim there , anyway . ''
`` Why not ? ''
demanded Grandfather Frog in great surprise .
`` Because it is n't in the water any longer ; it 's way up on dry land , '' said Jerry Muskrat in the most mournful voice .
`` What 's that you say ? ''
cried Grandfather Frog , as if he could n't believe his own ears .
`` It 's just as true as that I 'm sitting here , '' replied Jerry sadly .
`` Listen , Jerry Muskrat , and tell me truly ; is the Laughing Brook laughing ? ''
cried Grandfather Frog sharply .
`` No , '' replied Jerry , `` the Laughing Brook has stopped laughing , and the Smiling Pool has stopped smiling , and I think the world is upside down . ''
CHAPTER X : Why The World Seemed Upside Down To Jerry Muskrat Jerry Muskrat sat on the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool , which smiled no longer , and held his head in both hands , for his head ached .
He had thought and thought and thought , until it seemed to him that his head would split ; and with all his thinking , he did n't understand things any more now than he had in the beginning .
You see , Jerry Muskrat 's little world was topsy-turvy .
Yes , Sir , Jerry 's world was upside down !
Anyway , it seemed so to him , and he could n't understand it at all .
The Smiling Pool , the Laughing Brook , and the Green Meadows are Jerry Muskrat 's little world .
Now , as he sat on the Big Rock and looked about him , the Green Meadows were as lovely as ever .
He could see no change in them .
But the Laughing Brook had stopped laughing , and the Smiling Pool had stopped smiling .
The truth is there was n't enough of the Laughing Brook left to laugh , and there was n't enough of the Smiling Pool left to smile .
It was dreadful !
Jerry looked over to his house , of which he had once been so proud .
He had built it with the doorway under water .
He had felt perfectly safe there , because no one excepting Billy Mink or Little Joe Otter , who can swim under water , could reach him .
Now the Smiling Pool had grown so small that Jerry 's house was n't in the water at all .
Anybody who wanted to could get into it .
There was the doorway plainly to be seen .
Worse still , there was the secret entrance to the long tunnel leading to his castle under the roots of the Big Hickory-tree .
That had been Jerry 's most secret secret , and now there it was for all the world to see .
And there were all the wonderful caves and holes and hiding-places under the bank which had been known only to Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter , because the openings had always been under water .
Now anybody could find them , for they were plainly to be seen .
And where had always been smiling , dimpling water , Jerry saw only mud .
It was mud , mud , mud everywhere !
The bulrushes , which had always grown with their feet in the water , now had them only in mud , and that was fast drying up .
The lily-pads lay half curled up at the ends of their long stems , stretched out on the mud , and looked very , very sick .
Jerry turned towards the Laughing Brook .
There was just a little , teeny , weeny stream of water trickling down the middle of it , with here and there a tiny pool in which frightened trout and minnows were crowded .
All the secrets of the Laughing Brook were exposed , just as were the secrets of the Smiling Pool .
Jerry knew that if he wanted to find Billy Mink 's hiding-places , all he need do would be to walk up the Laughing Brook and look .
`` Yes , Sir , the world has turned upside down , '' said Jerry in a mournful voice .
`` I believe it has , '' replied Grandfather Frog , looking up from the little pool of water left at the foot of the Big Rock .
`` I know it has ! ''
cried Jerry .
`` I wonder if it will ever turn upside up again . ''
`` If it does n't , what are you going to do ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
`` I do n't know , '' replied Jerry Muskrat .
`` Here come Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink ; let 's find out what they are going to do . ''
CHAPTER XI : Five Heads Together Something had to be done .
Jerry Muskrat said so .
Grandfather Frog said so .
Billy Mink said so .
Little Joe Otter said so .
Even Spotty the Turtle said so .
The Laughing Brook could n't laugh , and the Smiling Pool could n't smile .
You see , there was n't water enough in either of them to laugh or smile , and nobody knew if there ever would be again .
Nobody had ever known anything like it before , and so nobody knew what to think or do .
And yet they all felt that something must be done .
`` What do you think , Billy Mink ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
Billy Mink looked down from the top of the Big Rock into the little pool of water that was all there was left of the Smiling Pool .
He could see a dozen fat trout in it , and he knew that he could catch them just as easily as not , because there was no place for them to swim away from him .
But somehow he did n't want to catch them .
He knew that they were frightened almost to death already by the running away of nearly all the water from the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , and somehow he felt sorry for them .
`` I think that the best thing we can do is to move down to the Big River .
I 've been down there , and that 's all right , '' said Billy Mink .
`` That 's what I think , '' said Little Joe Otter .
`` There 's no danger that the Big River will go dry . ''
`` How do you know ? ''
asked Jerry Muskrat .
`` The Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool never went dry before . ''
`` It 's a long , long way down to the Big River , '' broke in Spotty the Turtle , who travels very , very slowly and carries his house with him .
`` Chugarum !
I , for one , do n't want to leave the Smiling Pool without finding out what the trouble is .
`` There 's nothing happens , as you know , But has a cause to make it so .
`` Now there must be some cause , some reason , for this terrible trouble with the Smiling Pool , and if we can find that out , perhaps we shall know better what to do , '' said Grandfather Frog .
Jerry Muskrat nodded his head .
`` Grandfather Frog is right , '' said he .
`` Of course there must be a cause , but where are we to look for it ?
I 've been all over the Smiling Pool , and I 'm sure it is n't there . ''
Grandfather Frog actually smiled .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said he .
`` Of course the cause of all the trouble is n't in the Smiling Pool .
Any one would know that ! ''
`` Well , if you know so much , tell us where it is then ! ''
snapped Jerry Muskrat .
`` In the Laughing Brook , of course , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` No such thing ! ''
said Billy Mink .
`` I 've been all the way down the Laughing Brook to the Big River , and I did n't find a thing . ''
`` Have you been all the way up the Laughing Brook to the place it starts from ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
`` No-o , '' replied Billy Mink .
`` Well , that 's where the cause of all the trouble is , '' said Grandfather Frog , just as if he knew all about it .
`` It 's the water that comes down the Laughing Brook that makes the Smiling Pool , and the Smiling Pool never could dry up if the Laughing Brook did n't first stop running . ''
`` That 's so !
I never had thought of that , '' cried Little Joe Otter .
`` I tell you what , Billy Mink and I will go way up the Laughing Brook and see what we can find . ''
`` Chugarum !
Let us all go , '' said Grandfather Frog .
Then the five put their heads together and decided that they would go up the Laughing Brook to hunt for the trouble .
CHAPTER XII : A Hunt For Trouble Ol' Mistah Buzzard , sailing high in the blue , blue sky , looked down on a funny sight .
Yes , Sir , it certainly was a funny sight .
It was a little procession of five of his friends of the Smiling Pool .
First was Billy Mink , who , because he is slim and nimble , moves so quickly it sometimes is hard to follow him .
Behind him was Little Joe Otter , whose legs are so short that he almost looks as if he had n't any .
Behind Little Joe was Jerry Muskrat , who is a better traveler in the water than on land .
Behind Jerry was Grandfather Frog , who neither walks nor runs but travels with great jumps .
Last of all was Spotty the Turtle , who travels very , very slowly because , you know , he carries his house with him .
And all five were headed up the Laughing Brook , which laughed no more , because there was not water enough in it .
Now Ol' Mistah Buzzard had n't been over near the Smiling Pool for some time , and he had n't heard how the Smiling Pool had stopped smiling , and the Laughing Brook had stopped laughing .
When he looked down and saw how the water was so nearly gone from them that the trout and the minnows had hardly enough in which to live , he was so surprised that he kept saying over and over to himself : `` Fo ' the lan 's sake !
Fo ' the lan 's sake ! ''
Then , when he saw his five little friends marching up the Laughing Brook , he guessed right away that it must be something to do with the trouble in the Smiling Pool .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard just turned his broad wings and slid down , down out of the blue , blue sky until he was right over Grandfather Frog .
`` Where are yo'alls going ? ''
asked Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Chugarum !
To find out what is the trouble with the Laughing Brook , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'll help you , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard , once more sailing up in the blue , blue sky .
Grandfather Frog watched him until he was nothing but a speck .
`` I wish I had wings , '' sighed Grandfather Frog , and once more began to hop along up the bed of the Laughing Brook .
The Laughing Brook came down from the Green Forest and wound through the Green Meadows for a little way before it reached the Smiling Pool .
There the sun shone down into it , and Grandfather Frog did n't mind , although his legs were getting tired .
But when they got into the Green Forest it was dark and gloomy .
At least Grandfather Frog thought so , and so did Spotty the Turtle , for both dearly love the sunshine .
But still they kept on , for they felt that they must find the trouble with the Laughing Brook .
If they found this , they would also find the trouble with the Smiling Pool .
So Billy Mink jumped and skipped far ahead ; Little Joe Otter ran ; Jerry Muskrat walked , for he soon gets tired on land ; Grandfather Frog hopped ; Spotty the Turtle crawled , and way , way up in the blue , blue sky , OF Mistah Buzzard flew , all looking for the trouble which had stopped the laughing of the Laughing Brook and the smiling of the Smiling Pool .
CHAPTER XIII : Ol' Mistah Buzzard Sees Something `` Wait for me ! ''
cried Little Joe Otter to Billy Mink , but Billy Mink was in too much of a hurry and just ran faster .
`` Wait for me ! ''
cried Jerry Muskrat to Little Joe Otter , but Little Joe was in too much of a hurry and just ran faster .
`` Wait for me ! ''
cried Grandfather Frog to Jerry Muskrat , but Jerry was in too much of a hurry and just walked faster .
`` Wait for me ! ''
cried Spotty the Turtle to Grandfather Frog , but Grandfather Frog was in too much of a hurry and just jumped faster .
So running and walking and jumping and crawling , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Grandfather Frog , and Spotty the Turtle hurried up the Laughing Brook to try to find out why it laughed no more .
And high overhead in the blue , blue sky sailed Ol' Mistah Buzzard , and he also was looking for the trouble that had taken away the laugh from the Laughing Brook and the smile from the Smiling Pool .
Now Ol' Mistah Buzzard 's eyes are very sharp , and looking down from way up in the blue , blue sky he can see a great deal .
Indeed , Ol' Mistah Buzzard can see all that is going on below on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
His wings are very broad , and he can sail through the air very swiftly when he makes up his mind to .
Now , as he looked down , he saw that Billy Mink was selfish and would n't wait for Little Joe Otter , and Little Joe Otter was selfish and would n't wait for Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat was selfish and would n't wait for Grandfather Frog , and Grandfather Frog was selfish and would n't wait for Spotty the Turtle .
`` Ah reckon Ah will hurry up right smart and find out what the trouble is mahself , and then go back and tell Brer Turtle ; it will save him a powerful lot of work , and it will serve Brer Mink right if Brer Turtle finds out first what is the trouble with the Laughing Brook , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard and shot far ahead over the Green Forest towards that part of it from which the Laughing Brook comes .
In a few minutes he was as far ahead of Billy Mink as Billy was ahead of Spotty the Turtle .
For wings are swifter far than legs , On whatsoever purpose bent , But doubly swift and tireless Those wings on kindly deed intent .
And this is how it happened that Ol' Mistah Buzzard was the first to find out what it was that had stopped the laughing of the Laughing Brook and the smiling of the Smiling Pool , but he was so surprised when he did find out , that he forgot all about going back to tell Spotty the Turtle .
He forgot everything but his own great surprise , and he blinked his eyes a great many times to make sure that he was n't dreaming .
Then he sailed around and around in circles , looking down among the trees of the Green Forest and saying over and over to himself : `` Did yo ' ever ?
No , Ah never !
Did yo ' ever ?
No , Ah never ! ''
CHAPTER XIV : Spotty The Turtle Keeps Right On Going `` One step , two steps , three steps , so !
Four steps , five steps , six steps go !
Keep right on and do your best ; Mayhap you 'll win while others rest . ''
Spotty the Turtle said this over to himself every time he felt a little down-hearted , as he plodded along the bed of the Laughing Brook .
And every time he said it , he felt better .
`` One step , two steps , '' he kept saying over and over , and each time he said it , he took a step and then another .
They were very short steps , very short steps indeed , for Spotty 's legs are very short .
But each one carried him forward just so much , and he knew that he was just so much nearer the thing he was seeking .
Anyway , he hoped he was .
You see , if the Laughing Brook would never laugh any more , and the Smiling Pool would never smile any more , there was nothing to do but to go down to the Big River to live , and no one wanted to do that , especially Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle .
Now , because Billy Mink could go faster than Little Joe Otter , and Little Joe Otter could go faster than Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry could go faster than Grandfather Frog , and Grandfather Frog could go faster than Spotty the Turtle , and because each one wanted to be the first to find the trouble , no one would wait for the one behind him .
So Spotty the Turtle , who has to carry his house with him , was a long , long way behind the others .
But he kept right on going .
`` One step , two steps , three steps , so ! ''
and he did n't stop for anything .
He crawled over sticks and around big stones and sometimes , when he found a little pool of water , he swam .
He always felt better then , because he can swim faster than he can walk .
After a long , long time , Spotty the Turtle came to a little pool where the sunshine lay warm and inviting .
There , in the middle of it , on a mossy stone , sat Grandfather Frog fast asleep .
He had thought that he was so far ahead of Spotty that he could safely rest his tired legs .
Spotty wanted to climb right up beside him and take a nap too , but he did n't .
He just grinned and kept right on going .
`` One step , two steps , three steps , so ! ''
while Grandfather Frog slept on .
By and by , after a long , long time Spotty came to another little pool , and who should he see but Jerry Muskrat busily opening and eating some freshwater clams which he had found there .
He was so busy enjoying himself that he did n't see Spotty , and Spotty did n't say a word , but kept right on going , although the sight of Jerry 's feast had made him dreadfully hungry .
By and by , after a long , long time , he came to a third little pool with a high , smooth bank , and who should he see there but Little Joe Otter , who had made a slippery slide down the smooth bank and was having a glorious time sliding down into the little pool .
Spotty would have liked to take just one slide , but he did n't .
He did n't even let Little Joe Otter see him , but kept right on going .
`` One step , two steps , three steps , so ! ''
By and by , after a long , long time , he came to a hollow log , and just happening to peep in , he saw some one curled up fast asleep .
Who was it ?
Why , Billy Mink , to be sure !
You see , Billy thought that he was so far ahead that he might just as well take it easy , and that was what he was doing .
Spotty the Turtle did n't waken him .
He just kept right on going the same slow way he had come all day , and so , just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was going to bed behind the Purple Hills , Spotty the Turtle found the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
CHAPTER XV : What Spotty The Turtle Found Spotty the Turtle stared and stared and stared , until it seemed as if his eyes surely would pop out of his funny little head .
Of course he could believe his own eyes , and yet -- and yet -- well , if anybody else had seen what he was looking at and had told him about it , he would n't have believed it .
No , Sir , he would n't have believed it .
You see , he could n't have believed it because -- why , because it did n't seem as if it could be really and truly so .
He wondered if the sun shining in his eyes made him think he saw more than he really did see , so he carefully changed his position .
It made no difference .
Then Spotty was sure that what he saw was real , and that he had found the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook , which had made it stop laughing and the Smiling Pool stop smiling .
Spotty the Turtle was feeling pretty good .
In fact , Spotty was feeling very good indeed , because he had been the first to find out what was the matter with the Laughing Brook .
At least , he thought that he was the first , and he was of all the little people who live in the Smiling Pool .
Only Ol' Mistah Buzzard had been before him , and he did n't count because his wings are broad , and all he had to do was to sail over the Green Forest and look down .
The ones who really counted were Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog .
Billy Mink had stopped for a nap .
Little Joe Otter had stopped to play .
Jerry Muskrat had stopped to eat .
Grandfather Frog had stopped for a sun-nap .
But Spotty the Turtle had kept right on going , and now here he was , the first one to find the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook .
Do you wonder that he felt proud and very happy ?
Keeping at it , that 's the way Spotty won the race that day .
But now Spotty was beginning to wish that some of the others would hurry up .
He wanted to know what they thought .
He wanted to talk it all over .
It was such a surprising thing that he could make neither head nor tail of it himself , and he wondered what the others would say .
And now the long black shadows were creeping through the Green Forest , and if they did n't get there pretty soon , they would have to wait until the next day .
So Spotty the Turtle found a good place to spend the night , and then he sat down to watch and wait .
Right before him was the thing which he had found and which puzzled him so .
What was it ?
Why , it was a wall .
Yes , Sir , that is just what it was -- a wall of logs and sticks and mud , and it was right across the Laughing Brook , where the banks were steep and narrow .
Of course the Laughing Brook could laugh no longer ; there could n't enough water get through that wall of logs and sticks and mud to make even the beginning of a laugh .
Spotty wondered what lay behind that wall , and who had built it , and what for , and a lot of other things .
And he was still wondering when he fell asleep .
CHAPTER XVI : The Pond In The Green Forest SPOTTY THE TURTLE was awake by the time the first rays of the rising sun began to creep through the Green Forest .
He was far , far up the Laughing Brook , very much farther than he had ever been before , and as he yawned and stretched , he wondered if after all he had n't dreamed about the wall of logs and sticks and mud across the Laughing Brook .
When he had rubbed the last sleepy-wink out of his eyes , he looked again .
There it was , just as he had seen it the night before !
Then Spotty knew that it was real , and he began to wonder what was on the other side of it .
`` I can not climb it , for my legs were never made for climbing , '' said Spotty mournfully as he looked at his funny little black feet .
`` Oh , dear , I wish that I could climb like Happy Jack Squirrel ! ''
Just then a thought popped into his head and chased away the little frown that had crept into Spotty 's face .
`` Perhaps Happy Jack sometimes wishes that he could swim as I can , so I guess we are even .
I ca n't climb , but he ca n't swim .
How foolish it is to wish for things never meant for you ! ''
And with that , all the discontent left Spotty the Turtle , and he began to study how he could make the most of his short legs and his perseverance , of which , as you already know , he had a great deal .
He looked this way , and he looked that way , and he saw that if he could climb to the top of the bank on one side of the Laughing Brook , he would be able to walk right out on the strange wall of logs and sticks and mud , and then , of course , he could see just what was on the other side .
So Spotty the Turtle wasted no more time wishing that he could do something it was never meant that he should do .
Instead , he picked out what looked like the easiest place to climb the bank and started up .
My , my , my , it was hard work !
You see , he had to carry his house along with him , for he has to carry that wherever he goes , and it would have been hard enough to have climbed that bank without carrying anything .
Every time he had climbed up three steps he slipped back two steps , but he kept at it , puffing and blowing , saying over and over to himself : `` I can if I will , and will if I can !
I 'm sure to get there if I follow this plan . ''
Half-way up the bank Spotty lost his balance , and the house he was carrying just tipped him right over backward , and down he rolled to the place he had started from .
`` I needed to cool off , '' said Spotty to himself and slid into a little pool of water .
Then he tried the bank again , and just as before he slipped back two steps for every three he went up .
But he shut his mouth tight and kept at it , and by and by he was up to the place from which he had tumbled .
There he stopped to get his breath .
`` I can if I will , and will if I can !
I 'm sure to get there if I follow this plan , '' said he and started on again .
Twice more he tumbled clear down to the place he had started from , but each time he laughed at himself and tried again .
And at last he reached the top of the bank .
`` I said I could if I would , and I would if I could , and I have ! ''
he cried .
Then he hurried to see what was behind the strange wall .
What do you think it was ?
Why , a pond !
Yes , Sir , there was a pond right in the middle of the Green Forest !
Trees were coming up right out of the middle of it , but it was a sure enough pond .
Spotty found it harder work to believe his own eyes now than when he had first seen the strange wall across the Laughing Brook .
`` Why , why , why , what does it mean ? ''
exclaimed Spotty the Turtle .
`` That 's what I want to know ! ''
cried Billy Mink , who came hurrying up just then .
CHAPTER XVII : Who Had Made The Strange Pond ?
Who had made the strange pond ?
That is what Spotty the Turtle wanted to know .
That is what Billy Mink wanted to know .
So did Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog , when they arrived .
So did Ol' Mistah Buzzard , looking down from the blue , blue sky .
It was very strange , very strange indeed !
Never had there been a pond in that part of the Green Forest before , not even in the days when Sister South Wind melted the snow so fast that the Laughing Brook ran over its banks and the Smiling Pool grew twice as large as it ought to be .
Of course some one had made it .
Spotty the Turtle had known that as soon as he had seen the strange pond .
All in a flash he had understood what that wall of logs and brush and mud across the Laughing Brook was for .
It was to stop the water from running down the Laughing Brook .
And of course , if the water could n't keep on running and laughing on its way to the Smiling Pool , it would just stand still and grow and grow into a pond .
Of course !
There was nothing else for it to do .
Spotty felt very proud when he had thought that out all by himself .
`` This wall we are sitting on has made the pond , '' said Spotty the Turtle , after a long time in which no one had spoken .
`` You do n't say so ! ''
said Billy Mink .
`` How ever , ever , did you guess it ?
Are you sure , quite sure that the pond did n't make the wall ? ''
Spotty knew that Billy Mink was making fun of him , but he is too good-natured to lose his temper over a little thing like that .
He tried to think of something smart to say in reply , but Spotty is a slow thinker as well as a slow walker , and before he could think of anything , Billy was talking once more .
`` This wall is what Farmer Brown 's boy calls a dam , '' said Billy Mink , who is a great traveler .
`` Dams are usually built to keep water from running where it is n't wanted or to make it go where it is wanted .
Now , what I want to know is , who under the sun wants a pond way back here in the Green Forest , and what is it for ?
Who do you think built this dam , Grandfather Frog ? ''
Grandfather Frog shook his head .
His big goggly eyes seemed more goggly than ever , as he stared at the new pond in the Green Forest .
`` I do n't know , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` I do n't know what to think . ''
`` Why , it must be Farmer Brown 's boy or Farmer Brown himself , '' said Jerry Muskrat .
`` Of course , '' said Little Joe Otter , just as if he knew all about it .
Still Grandfather Frog shook his head , as if he did n't agree .
`` I do n't know , '' said Grandfather Frog , `` I do n't know .
It does n't look so to me . ''
Billy Mink ran along the top of the dam and down the back side .
He looked it all over with those sharp little eyes of his .
`` Grandfather Frog is right , '' said he , when he came back .
`` It does n't look like the work of Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy .
But if they did n't do it , who did ?
Who could have done it ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' said Grandfather Frog again , in a dreamy sort of voice .
Spotty the Turtle looked at him , and saw that Grandfather Frog 's face wore the far-away look that it always does when he tells a story of the days when the world was young .
`` I do n't know , '' he repeated , `` but it looks to me very much like the work of -- '' Grandfather Frog stopped short off and turned to Jerry Muskrat .
`` Jerry Muskrat , '' said he , so sharply that Jerry nearly lost his balance in his surprise , `` has your big cousin come down from the North ? ''
CHAPTER XVIII : Jerry Muskrat 's Big Cousin Fiddle , faddle , feedle , fuddle !
Was there ever such a muddle ?
Fuddle , feedle , faddle , fiddle !
Who is there will solve the riddle ?
Here was the Laughing Brook laughing no longer .
Here was the Smiling Pool smiling no longer .
Here was a brand new pond deep in the Green Forest .
Here was a wall of logs and bushes and mud called a dam , built by some one whom nobody had seen .
And here was Grandfather Frog asking Jerry Muskrat if his big cousin had come down from the North , when Jerry did n't even know that he had a big cousin .
`` I -- I have n't any big cousin , '' said Jerry , when he had quite recovered from his surprise at Grandfather Frog 's question .
`` Chugarum ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog , and the scornful way in which he said it made Jerry Muskrat feel very small .
`` Chugarum !
Of course you 've got a big cousin in the North .
Do you mean to tell me that you do n't know that , Jerry Muskrat ? ''
Jerry had to admit that it was true that he did n't know anything about that big cousin .
If Grandfather Frog said that he had one , it must be so , for Grandfather Frog is very old and very wise , and he knows a great deal .
Still , it was very hard for Jerry to believe that he had a big cousin of whom he had never heard .
`` Did -- did you ever see him , Grandfather Frog ? ''
Jerry asked .
`` No ! ''
snapped Grandfather Frog .
`` I never did , but I know all about him .
He is a great worker , is this big cousin of yours , and he builds dams like this one we are sitting on . ''
`` I do n't believe it ! ''
cried Billy Mink .
`` I do n't believe any cousin of Jerry Muskrat 's ever built such a dam as this .
Why , just look at that great tree trunk at the bottom !
No one but Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy could ever have dragged that there .
You 're crazy , Grandfather Frog , just plain crazy . ''
Billy Mink sometimes is very disrespectful to Grandfather Frog .
`` Chugarum ! ''
replied Grandfather Frog .
`` I 'm pretty old , but I 'm not too old to learn as some folks seem to be , '' and he looked very hard at Billy Mink .
`` Did I say that that tree trunk was dragged here ? ''
`` No , '' replied Billy Mink , `` but if it was n't dragged here , how did it get here ?
You are so smart , Grandfather Frog , tell me that ! ''
Grandfather Frog blinked his great goggly eyes at Billy Mink as he said , just as if he was very , very sorry for Billy , `` Your eyes are very bright and very sharp , Billy Mink , and it is a great pity that you have never learned how to use them .
That tree was n't dragged here ; it was cut so that it fell right where it lies . ''
As he spoke , Grandfather Frog pointed to the stump of the tree , and Billy Mink saw that he was right .
But Billy Mink is like a great many other people ; he dearly loves to have the last word .
Now he suddenly began to laugh .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho ! ''
laughed Billy Mink .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
`` What is it that is so funny ? ''
snapped Grandfather Frog , for nothing makes him so angry as to be laughed at .
`` Do you mean to say that anybody but Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy could have cut down such a big tree as that ? ''
asked Billy .
`` Why , that would be as hard as to drag the tree here . ''
`` Jerry Muskrat 's big cousin from the North could do it , and I believe he did , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Now that we have found the cause of the trouble in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , what are we going to do about it ? ''
CHAPTER XIX : Jerry Muskrat Has A Busy Day There was the strange pond in the Green Forest , and there was the dam of logs and sticks and mud which had made the strange pond , but look as they would , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle could see nothing of the one who had built the dam .
It was very queer .
The more they thought about it , the queerer it seemed .
They looked this way , and they looked that way .
`` There is one thing very sure , and that is that whoever built this dam had no thought for those who live in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` They are selfish , just plain , every-day selfish ; that 's what they are !
Now the Laughing Brook can not laugh , and the Smiling Pool can not smile , while this dam stops the water from running , and so -- '' Grandfather Frog stopped and looked around at his four friends .
`` And so what ? ''
cried Billy Mink impatiently .
`` And so we must spoil this dam .
We must make a place for the water to run through , '' said Grandfather Frog very gravely .
`` Of course !
That 's the very thing ! ''
cried Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Spotty the Turtle .
Then Little Joe Otter looked at Billy Mink , and Billy Mink looked at Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat looked at Spotty the Turtle , and after that they all looked very hard at Grandfather Frog , and all together they asked : `` How are we going to do it ? ''
Grandfather Frog scratched his head thoughtfully and looked a long time at the dam of logs and sticks and mud .
Then his big mouth widened in a big smile .
`` Why , that is very simple , '' said he , `` Jerry Muskrat will make a big hole through the dam near the bottom , because he knows how , and the rest of us will keep watch to see that no harm comes near . ''
`` The very thing ! ''
cried Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Spotty the Turtle , but Jerry Muskrat thought it was n't fair .
You see , it gave him all of the real work to do .
However , Jerry thought of his dear Smiling Pool , and how terrible it would be if it should smile no more , and so without another word he set to work .
Now Jerry Muskrat is a great worker , and he had made many long tunnels into the bank around the Smiling Pool , so he had no doubt but that he could soon make a hole through this dam .
But almost right away he found trouble .
Yes , Sir , Jerry had hardly begun before he found real trouble .
You see , that dam was made mostly of sticks instead of mud , and so , instead of digging his way in as he would have done into the bank of the Smiling Pool , he had to stop every few minutes to gnaw off sticks that were in the way .
It was hard work , the hardest kind of hard work .
But Jerry Muskrat is the kind that is the more determined to do the work the harder the work is to be done .
And so , while Grandfather Frog sat on one end of the dam and pretended to keep watch , but really took a nap in the warm sunshine , and while Spotty the Turtle sat on the other end of the dam doing the same thing , and while Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter swam around in the strange pond and enjoyed themselves , Jerry Muskrat worked and worked and worked .
And just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun started down behind the Purple Hills , Jerry broke through into the strange pond , and the water began to run in the Laughing Brook once more .
CHAPTER XX : Jerry Has A Dreadful Disappointment There 's nothing in this world that 's sure , No matter how we scheme and plan .
We simply have to be content With doing just the best we can .
Jerry Muskrat had curled himself up for the night , so tired that he could hardly keep his eyes open long enough to find a comfortable place to sleep .
But he was happy .
Yes , indeed , Jerry was happy .
He could hear the Laughing Brook beginning to laugh again .
It was just a little low , gurgling laugh , but Jerry knew that in a little while it would grow into the full laugh that makes music through the Green Forest and puts happiness into the hearts of all who hear it .
So Jerry was happy , for was it not because of him that the Laughing Brook was beginning to laugh ?
He had worked all the long day to make a hole through the dam which some one had built across the Laughing Brook and so stopped its laughter .
Now the water was running again , and soon the new , strange pond behind the dam there in the Green Forest would be gone , and the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool would be their own beautiful selves once more .
It was because he had worked so hard all day that he was going to sleep now .
Usually he would rather sleep a part of the day and be abroad at night .
Very pleasant dreams had Jerry Muskrat that night , dreams of the dear Smiling Pool , smiling just as it had as long as Jerry could remember , before this trouble had come .
He was still dreaming when Spotty the Turtle found him and waked him , for it was broad daylight .
Jerry yawned and stretched , and then he lay still for a minute to listen to the pleasant murmur of the Laughing Brook .
But there was n't any pleasant murmur .
There was n't any sound at all .
Jerry began to wonder if he really was awake after all .
He looked at Spotty the Turtle , and he knew then that he was , for Spotty 's face had such a worried look .
`` Get up , Jerry Muskrat , and come look at the hole you made yesterday in the dam .
You could n't have done your work very well , for the hole has filled up so that the water does not run any more , '' said Spotty .
`` I did do it well ! ''
snapped Jerry crossly .
`` I did it just as well as I know how .
You lazy folks who just sit and take sun-naps while you pretend to keep watch had better get busy and do a little work yourselves , if you do n't like the way I work . ''
`` I -- I beg your pardon , Jerry Muskrat .
I did n't mean to say just that , '' replied Spotty .
`` You see , we are all worried .
We thought last night that by this morning the Laughing Brook would be full of water again , and we could go back to the Smiling Pool as soon as we felt like it , and here it is as bad as ever . ''
`` Perhaps the trouble is just that some sticks and grass drifted down in the water and filled up the hole I made ; that must be the trouble , '' said Jerry hopefully , as he hurried towards the dam .
First he carefully examined it from the Laughing Brook side .
Then he dived down under water on the other side .
He was gone a long time , and Billy Mink was just getting ready to dive to see what had become of him when he came up again .
`` What is the trouble ? ''
cried Spotty the Turtle and Grandfather Frog and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter together .
`` Is the hole filled up with stuff that has drifted in ? ''
Jerry shook his head , as he slowly climbed out of the water .
`` No , '' said he .
`` No , it is n't filled with drift stuff brought down by the water .
It is filled with sticks and mud that somebody has put there .
Somebody has filled up the hole that I worked so hard to make yesterday , and it will take me all day to open it up again . ''
Then Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat stared at one mother , and for a long time no one said a word .
CHAPTER XXI : Jerry Muskrat Keeps Watch `` The way in which to find things out , And what goes on all round about , Is just to keep my two eyes peeled And two ears all the time unsealed . ''
So said Jerry Muskrat , as he settled himself comfortably on one end of the new dam across the Laughing Brook deep in the Green Forest and watched the dark shadows creep farther and farther out into the strange pond made by the new dam .
`` I 'm going to find out who it is that built this dam , and who it is that filled the hole I made in it !
I 'm going to find out if I have to move up here and live all summer ! ''
The way in which Jerry said this and snapped his teeth together showed that he meant just what he said .
You see Jerry had spent another long , weary day opening the hole in the dam once more , only to have it closed again while he slept .
That had been enough for Jerry .
He had n't tried again .
Instead he had made up his mind that he would find out who was playing such a trick on him .
He would just watch until they came , and then if they were not bigger than he , or there were not too many of them , he would -- well , the way Jerry gritted and clashed those sharp teeth of his sounded as if he meant to do something pretty bad .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter had given up in disgust and started for the Big River .
They are great travelers , anyway , and so did n't mind so much because there was no longer water enough in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , who are such very , very slow travelers , had decided that the Big River was too far away , and so they would stay and live in the strange pond for a while , though it was n't nearly so nice as their dear Smiling Pool .
They bad gone to sleep now , each in his own secret place where he would be safe for the night .
So Jerry Muskrat sat alone and watched .
The black shadows crept farther and farther across the pond and grew blacker and blacker .
Jerry did n't mind this , because , as you know , his eyes are made for seeing in the dark , and he dearly loves the night .
Jerry had sat there a long time without moving .
He was listening and watching .
By and by he saw something that made him draw in his breath and anger leap into his eyes .
It was a little silver line on the water , and it was coming straight towards the dam where he sat .
Jerry knew that it was made by some one swimming .
`` Ha ! ''
said Jerry .
`` Now we shall see ! ''
Nearer and nearer came the silver line .
Then Jerry made out the head of the swimmer .
Suddenly all the anger left Jerry .
He did n't have room for anger ; a great fear had crowded it out .
The head was bigger than that of any Muskrat Jerry had ever seen .
It was bigger than the head of any of Billy Mink 's relatives .
It was the head of a stranger , a stranger so big that Jerry felt very , very small and hoped with all his might that the stranger would not see him .
Jerry held his breath as the stranger swam past and then climbed out on the dam .
He looked very much like Jerry himself , only ever and ever so much bigger .
And his tail !
Jerry had never seen such a tail .
It was very broad and flat .
Suddenly the big stranger turned and looked straight at Jerry .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
said he .
`` Do n't you know me ? ''
Jerry was too frightened to speak .
`` I 'm your big cousin from the North ; I 'm Paddy the Beaver , and if you leave my dam alone , I think we 'll be good friends , '' continued the stranger .
`` I -- I -- I hope so , '' said Jerry in a very faint voice , trying to be polite , but with his teeth chattering with fear .
CHAPTER XXII : Jerry Loses His Fear `` Oh , tell me , you and you and you , If it may hap you 've ever heard Of all that wond ` rous is and great The greatest is the spoken word ? ''
It 's true .
It 's the truest thing that ever was .
If you do n't believe it , you just go ask Jerry Muskrat .
He 'll tell you it 's true , and Jerry knows .
You see , it 's this way : Words are more than just sounds .
Oh , my , yes !
They are little messengers , and once they have been sent out , you ca n't call them back .
No , Sir , you ca n't call them back , and sometimes that is a very sad thing , because -- well , you see these little messengers always carry something to some one else , and that something may be anger or hate or fear or an untruth , and it is these things which make most of the trouble in this world .
Or that something may be love or sympathy or helpfulness or kindness , and it is these things which put an end to most of the troubles in this world .
Just take the ease of Jerry Muskrat .
There he sat on the new dam , which had made the strange pond in the Green Forest , shaking with fear until his teeth chattered , as he watched a stranger very , very much bigger than he climb up on the dam .
Jerry was afraid , because he had seen that the stranger could swim as well as he could , and as Jerry had no secret burrows there , he knew that he could n't get away from the stranger if he wanted to .
Somehow , Jerry knew without being told that the stranger had built the dam , and you know Jerry had twice made a hole in the dam to let the water out of the strange pond into the Laughing Brook .
Jerry knew right down in his heart that if he had built that dam , he would be very , very angry with any one who tried to spoil it , and that is just what he had tried to do .
So he sat with chattering teeth , too frightened to even try to run .
`` I wish I had let some one else keep watch , '' said Jerry to himself .
Then the big stranger had spoken .
He had said : `` Hello , Jerry Muskrat !
Do n't you know me ? ''
and his voice had n't sounded the least bit angry .
Then he had told Jerry that he was his big cousin , Paddy the Beaver , and he hoped that they would be friends .
Now everything was just as it had been before -- the strange pond , the dam , Jerry himself and the big stranger , and the black shadows of the night -- and yet somehow , everything was different , all because a few pleasant words had been spoken .
A great fear had fallen away from Jerry 's heart , and in its place was a great hope that after all there was n't to be any trouble .
So he replied to Paddy the Beaver as politely as he knew how .
Paddy was just as polite , and the first thing Jerry knew , instead of being enemies , as Jerry had all along made up his mind would be the case when he found the builder of the dam , here they were becoming the best of friends , all because Paddy the Beaver had said the right thing in the right way .
`` But you have n't told me yet what you made those holes in my dam for , Cousin Jerry , '' said Paddy the Beaver finally .
Jerry did n't know just what to say .
He was so pleased with his big new cousin that he did n't want to hurt his feelings by telling him that he did n't think that dam had any business to be across the Laughing Brook , and at the same time he wanted Paddy to know how he had spoiled the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
At last he made up his mind to tell the whole story .
CHAPTER XXIII : Paddy The Beaver Does A Kind Deed Paddy the Beaver listened to all that his small cousin , Jerry Muskrat , had to tell him about the trouble which Paddy 's dam had caused in the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool .
`` You see , we who live in the Smiling Pool love it dearly , and we do n't want to have to leave it , but if the water can not run down the Laughing Brook , there can be no Smiling Pool , and so we will have to move off to the Big River , '' concluded Jerry Muskrat .
`` That is why I tried to spoil your dam . ''
There was a twinkle in the eyes of Paddy the Beaver as he replied : `` Well , now that you have found out that you ca n't do that , because I am bigger than you and can stop you , what are you going to do about it ? ''
`` I do n't know , '' said Jerry Muskrat sadly .
`` I do n't see what we can do about it .
Of course you are big and strong and can do just as you please , but it does n't seem right that we who have lived here so long should have to move and go away from all that we love so just because you , a stranger , happen to want to live here .
I tell you what ! ''
Jerry 's eyes sparkled as a brand new thought came to him .
`` Could n't you come down and live in the Smiling Pool with us ?
I 'm sure there is room enough ! ''
Paddy the Beaver shook his head .
`` No , '' said he , and Jerry 's heart sank .
`` No , I ca n't do that because down there there is n't any of the kind of food I eat .
Besides , I would n't feel at all safe in the Smiling Pool .
You see , I always live in the woods .
No , I could n't possibly come down to live in the Smiling Pool .
But I 'm truly sorry that I have made you so much worry , Cousin Jerry , and I 'm going to prove it to you .
Now you sit right here until I come back . ''
Before Jerry realized what he was going to do , Paddy the Beaver dived into the pond , and as he disappeared , his broad tail hit the water such a slap that it made Jerry jump .
Then there began a great disturbance down under water .
In a few minutes up bobbed a stick , and then another and another , and the water grew so muddy that Jerry could n't see what was going on .
Paddy was gone a long time .
Jerry wondered how he could stay under water so long without air .
All the time Paddy was just fooling him .
He would come up to the surface , stick his nose out , nothing more , fill his lungs with fresh air , and go down again .
Suddenly Jerry Muskrat heard a sound that made him prick up his funny little short ears and whirl about so that he could look over the other side of the dam into the Laughing Brook .
What do you think that sound was ?
Why , it was the sound of rushing water , the sweetest sound Jerry had listened to for a long time .
There was a great hole in the dam , and already the brook was beginning to laugh as the water rushed down it .
`` How do you like that , Cousin Jerry ? ''
said a voice right in his ear .
Paddy the Beaver had climbed up beside him , and his eyes were twinkling .
`` It -- it 's splendid ! ''
cried Jerry .
`` But -- but you 've spoiled your dam ! ''
`` Oh , that 's all right , '' replied Paddy .
`` I did n't really want it now , anyway .
I do n't usually build dams at this time of year , and I built this one just for fun because it seemed such a nice place to build one .
You see , I was traveling through here , and it seemed such a nice place , that I thought I would stay a while .
I did n't know anything about the Smiling Pool , you know .
Now , I guess I 'll have to move on and find a place where I can make a pond in the fall that will not trouble other people .
You see , I do n't like to be troubled myself , and so I do n't want to trouble other people .
This Green Forest is a very nice place . ''
`` The very nicest place in all the world excepting the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool ! ''
replied Jerry promptly .
`` Wo n't you stay , Cousin Paddy ?
I 'm sure we would all like to have you . ''
`` Of course we would , '' said a gruff voice right beside them .
It was Grandfather Frog .
Paddy the Beaver looked thoughtful .
`` Perhaps I will , '' said he , `` if I can find some good hiding-places in the Laughing Brook . ''
CHAPTER XXIV : A Merry Home-Going `` The Laughing Brook is merry And so am I , '' cried Jerry .
Grandfather Frog said he was too .
And Spotty was , the others knew .
The trees stood with wet feet where just a little while before had been the strange pond in the Green Forest , the pond made by the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
In the dam was a great hole made by Paddy himself .
Through the Green Forest rang the laughter of the Laughing Brook , for once more the water ran deep between its banks .
And in the hearts of Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat and Spotty the Turtle was laughter also , for now the Smiling Pool would smile once more , and they could go home in peace and happiness .
And there was one more who laughed .
Who was it ?
Why , Paddy the Beaver to be sure , and his was the best laugh of all , for it was because he had brought happiness to others .
`` You beat me up here to the dam , but you wo n't beat me back to the Smiling Pool , '' cried Jerry Muskrat to Spotty the Turtle .
Spotty laughed good-naturedly .
`` You 'd better not stop to eat or play or sleep on the way then , '' said he , `` for I shall keep right on going all the time .
I 've found that is the only way to get anywhere . ''
`` Let us all go down together '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` We can help each other over the bad places . ''
Jerry Muskrat laughed until he had to hold his sides at the very thought of Grandfather Frog or Spotty the Turtle being able to help him , but he is very good-natured , and so he agreed that they should all go down together .
Paddy the Beaver said that he would go , too , so off the four started , Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver swimming side by side , and behind them Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle .
Now Spotty the Turtle is a very slow traveler on land , but in the water Spotty is not so slow .
In fact , it was not long before Grandfather Frog found that he was the one who could not keep up .
You see , while he is a great diver and can swim fast for a short distance , he is soon tired out .
Pretty soon he was puffing and blowing and dropping farther and farther behind .
By and by , Spotty the Turtle looked back .
There was Grandfather Frog just tumbling head first over a little waterfall .
He came up choking and gasping and kicking his long legs very feebly .
Spotty climbed out on a rock and waited .
He helped Grandfather Frog out beside him , and when Grandfather Frog had once more gotten his breath , what do you think Spotty did ?
Why , he took Grandfather Frog right on his back and started on again .
Now Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver , being great swimmers , were soon out of sight .
All at once Jerry remembered that they had agreed to go back together , and down in his heart he felt a little bit mean when he looked for Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle and could see nothing of them .
So he and Paddy sat down to wait .
After what seemed a long time , they saw something queer bobbing along in the water .
`` It 's Grandfather Frog , '' cried Paddy the Beaver .
`` No , it 's Spotty the Turtle , '' said Jerry Muskrat .
`` It 's both , '' replied Paddy , beginning to laugh .
Just then Spotty tumbled over another waterfall which he had n't seen , and of course Grandfather Frog went with him and lost his hold on Spotty 's back .
`` I have an idea ! ''
cried Paddy .
`` What is it ? ''
asked Jerry .
`` Why , Grandfather Frog can ride on my flat tail , '' replied Paddy , `` and then we 'll go slow enough for Spotty to keep up with us . ''
And so it was that just as the first moonbeams kissed the Smiling Pool , out of the Laughing Brook swam the merriest party that ever was seen .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` It is good to be home , but I think I would travel often , if I could have the tail of Paddy the Beaver for a boat . ''
CHAPTER XXV : Paddy The Beaver Decides To Stay `` The fair Green Meadows spreading wide , The Smiling Pool and Laughing Brook -- They fill our hearts with joy and pride ; We love their every hidden nook . ''
So said Jerry Muskrat , as he climbed up on the Big Rock in the middle of the Smiling Pool , with Paddy the Beaver beside him , and watched the dear Smiling Pool dimpling and smiling in the moonlight , as he had so often seen it before the great trouble had come .
`` Chugarum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog in his great deep voice from the bulrushes .
`` One never knows how great their blessings are until they have been lost and found again . ''
The bulrushes nodded , as if they too were thinking of this .
You see their feet were once more in the cool water .
Paddy the Beaver seemed to understand just how every one felt , and he smiled to himself as he saw how happy these new friends of his were .
`` It surely is a very nice place here , and I do n't wonder that you could n't bear to leave it , '' said he .
`` I 'm sorry that I made you all that trouble and worry , but you see I did n't know . ''
`` Oh , that 's all right , '' replied Jerry Muskrat , who was now very proud of his big cousin .
`` I hope that now you see how nice it is , you will stay and make your home here . ''
Paddy the Beaver looked back at the great black shadow which he knew was the Green Forest .
Way over in the middle of it he heard the hunting-call of Hooty the Owl .
Then he looked out over the Green Meadows , and from way over on the far side of them sounded the bark of Reddy Fox , and it was answered by the deep voice of Bowser the Hound up in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
For some reason that last sound made Paddy the Beaver shiver a little , just as the voice of Hooty the Owl made the smaller people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows shiver when they heard it .
Paddy was n't afraid of Hooty or of Reddy Fox , but Bowser 's great voice was new to him , and somehow the very sound of it made him afraid .
You see , the Green Meadows were so strange and open that he did n't feel at all at home , for he dearly loves the deepest part of the Green Forest .
`` No , '' said Paddy the Beaver , `` I ca n't possibly live here in the Smiling Pool .
It is a very nice pool , but it would n't do at all for me , Cousin Jerry .
I would n't feel safe here a minute .
Besides , there is nothing to eat here . ''
`` Oh , yes , there is , '' Jerry Muskrat interrupted .
`` There are lily-roots and the nicest fresh-water clams and -- '' `` But there are no trees , '' said Paddy the Beaver , `` and you know I have to have trees . ''
Jerry stared at Paddy as if he did n't understand .
`` Do -- do you eat trees ? ''
he asked finally .
Paddy laughed .
`` Just the bark , '' said he , `` and I have to have a great deal of it . ''
Jerry looked as disappointed as he felt .
`` Of course you ca n't stay then , '' said he , `` and -- and I had thought that we would have such good times together . ''
Paddy 's eyes twinkled .
`` Perhaps we may yet , '' said he .
`` You see I have about made up my mind that I will stay a while along the Laughing Brook in the Green Forest , and you can come to see me there .
On our way down I saw a very nice hole in the bank that I think will make me a good house for the present , and you can come up there to see me .
But if I do stay , you and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle must keep my secret .
No one must know that I am there .
Will you ? ''
`` Of course we will ! ''
cried Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle together .
`` Then I 'll stay , '' said Paddy the Beaver , diving into the Smiling Pool with a great splash .
And so one of Jerry Muskrat 's greatest adventures ended in the finding of his biggest cousin , Paddy the Beaver .
Now Jerry has a lot of cousins , and one of them lives on the Green Meadows not far from the Smiling Pool .
His name is Danny Meadow Mouse , and Danny is forever having adventures too .
He has them every day .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Jimmy_Skunk.txt.out
I PETER RABBIT PLANS A JOKE The Imp of Mischief , woe is me , Is always busy as a bee .
That is why so many people are forever getting into trouble .
He wo n't keep still .
No , Sir , he wo n't keep still unless he is made to .
Once let him get started there is no knowing where he will stop .
Peter Rabbit had just seen Jimmy Skunk disappear inside an old barrel , lying on its side at the top of the hill , and at once the Imp of Mischief began to whisper to Peter .
Of course Peter should n't have listened .
Certainly not .
But he did .
You know Peter dearly loves a joke when it is on some one else .
He sat right where he was and watched to see if Jimmy would come out of the barrel .
Jimmy did n't come out , and after a little Peter stole over to the barrel and peeped inside .
There was Jimmy Skunk curled up for a nap .
Peter tiptoed away very softly .
All the time the Imp of Mischief was whispering to him that this was a splendid chance to play a joke on Jimmy .
You know it is very easy to play a joke on any one who is asleep .
Peter does n't often have a chance to play a joke on Jimmy Skunk .
It is n't a very safe thing to do , not if Jimmy is awake .
No one knows that better than Peter .
He sat down some distance from the barrel but where he could keep an eye on it .
Then he went into a brown study , which is one way of saying that he thought very hard .
He wanted to play a joke on Jimmy , but like most jokers he did n't want the joke to come back on himself .
In fact , he felt that it would be a great deal better for him if Jimmy should n't know that he had anything to do with the joke .
As he sat there in a brown study , he happened to glance over on the Green Meadows and there he saw something red .
He looked very hard , and in a minute he saw that it was Reddy Fox .
Right away , Peter 's nimble wits began to plan how he could use Reddy Fox to play a joke on Jimmy .
All in a flash an idea came to him , an idea that made him laugh right out .
You see , the Imp of Mischief was very , very busy whispering to Peter .
`` If Reddy were only up here , I believe I could do it , and it would be a joke on Reddy as well as on Jimmy , '' thought Peter , and laughed right out again .
`` What are you laughing at ? ''
asked a voice .
It was the voice of Sammy Jay .
Right away a plan for getting Reddy up there flashed into Peter 's head .
He would get Sammy angry , and that would make Sammy scream .
Reddy would be sure to come up there to see what Sammy Jay was making such a fuss about .
Sammy , you know , is very quick-tempered .
No one knows this better than Peter .
So instead of replying politely to Sammy , as he should have done , Peter spoke crossly : `` Fly away , Sammy , fly away !
It is no business of yours what I am laughing at , '' said he .
Right away Sammy 's quick temper flared up .
He began to call Peter names , and Peter answered back .
This angered Sammy still more , and as he always screams when he is angry , he was soon making such a racket that Reddy Fox down on the Green Meadows could n't help but hear it .
Peter saw him lift his head to listen .
In a few minutes he began to trot that way .
He was coming to find out what that fuss was about .
Peter knew that Reddy would n't come straight up there .
That is n't Reddy 's way .
He would steal around back of the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , which was back of Peter , and would try to see what was going on without being seen himself .
`` As soon as he sees me he will think that at last he has a chance to catch me , '' thought Peter .
`` I shall have to run my very fastest , but if everything goes right , he will soon forget all about me .
I do hope that the noise Sammy Jay is making will not waken Jimmy Skunk and bring him out to see what is going on . ''
So with one eye on the barrel where Jimmy Skunk was taking a nap , and the other eye on the old stone wall behind which he expected Reddy Fox to come stealing up , Peter waited and did n't mind in the least the names that Sammy Jay was calling him .
II PETER MAKES A FLYING JUMP To risk your life unless there 's need Is downright foolishness indeed .
Never forget that .
Never do such a crazy thing as Peter Rabbit was doing .
What was he doing ?
Why , he was running the risk of being caught by Reddy Fox all for the sake of a joke .
Did you ever hear of anything more foolish ?
Yet Peter was no different from a lot of people who every day risk their lives in the most careless and heedless ways just to save a few minutes of time or for some other equally foolish reason .
The fact is , Peter did n't stop to think what dreadful thing might happen if his plans did n't work out as he intended .
He did n't once think of little Mrs. Peter over in the dear Old Briar-patch and how she would feel if he never came home again .
That 's the trouble with thoughtlessness ; it never remembers other people .
All the time that Reddy Fox was creeping along behind the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , Peter knew just where he was , though Reddy did n't know that .
If he had known it , he would have suspected one of Peter 's tricks .
`` He 'll peep over that wall , and just as soon as he sees me , he will feel sure that this time he will catch me , '' thought Peter .
`` He will steal along to that place where the wall is lowest and will jump over it right there .
I must be ready to jump the very second he does . ''
It all happened just as Peter had expected .
While seeming to be paying no attention to anything but to Sammy Jay , he kept his eyes on that low place in the old wall , and presently he saw Reddy 's sharp nose , as Reddy peeped over to make sure that he was still there .
The instant that sharp nose dropped out of sight , Peter made ready to run for his life .
A second later , Reddy leaped over the wall , and Peter was off as hard as he could go , with Reddy almost at his heels .
Sammy Jay , who had been so busy calling Peter names that he had n't seen Reddy at all , forgot all about his quarrel with Peter .
`` Go it , Peter !
Go it ! ''
he screamed excitedly .
That was just like Sammy .
Peter did go it .
He had to .
He ran with all his might .
Reddy grinned as he saw Peter start towards the Green Meadows .
It was a long way to the dear Old Briar-patch , and Reddy did n't have any doubt at all that he would catch Peter before he got there .
He watched sharply for Peter to dodge and try to get back to the old stone wall .
He did n't mean to let Peter do that .
But Peter did n't even try .
He ran straight for the edge of the hill above the Green Meadows .
Then , for the first time , Reddy noticed an old barrel there lying on its side .
`` I wonder if he thinks he can hide in that , '' thought Reddy , and grinned again , for he remembered that he had passed that old barrel a few days before , and that one end was open while the other end was closed .
`` If he tries that , I will get him without the trouble of much of a chase , '' thought Reddy , and chuckled .
Lipperty-lipperty-lip ran Peter , lipperty-lipperty-lip , Reddy right at his heels !
To Sammy Jay it looked as if in a few more jumps Reddy certainly would catch Peter .
`` Go it , Peter !
Oh , go it !
Go it ! ''
screamed Sammy , for in spite of his quarrels with Peter , he did n't want to see him come to any real harm .
Just as he reached the old barrel , Reddy was so close to him that Peter was almost sure that he could feel Reddy 's breath .
Then Peter made a splendid flying jump right over the old barrel and kept on down the hill , lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as ever he could , straight for an old house of Johnny Chuck 's of which he knew .
When he reached it , he turned to see what was happening behind him , for he knew by the screaming of Sammy Jay and by other sounds that a great deal was happening .
In fact , he suspected that the joke which he had planned was working out just as he had hoped it would .
III WHAT HAPPENED AT THE OLD BARREL Peter Rabbit 's jump over the old barrel on the edge of the hill was unexpected to Reddy Fox .
In fact , Reddy was so close on Peter 's heels that he had no thought of anything but catching Peter .
He was running so fast that when Peter made his flying jump over the barrel , Reddy did not have time to jump too , and he ran right smack bang against that old barrel .
Now you remember that that barrel was right on the edge of the hill .
When Reddy ran against it , he hit it so hard that he rolled it over , and of course that started it down the hill .
You know a barrel is a very rolly sort of thing , and once it has started down a hill , nothing can stop it .
It was just so this time .
Reddy Fox had no more than picked himself up when the barrel was half way down the hill and going faster and faster .
It bounced along over the ground , and every time it hit a little hummock it seemed to jump right up in the air .
And all the time it was making the strangest noises .
Reddy quite forgot the smarting sore places where he had bumped into the barrel .
He simply stood and stared at the runaway .
`` As I live , '' he exclaimed , `` I believe there was some one in that old barrel ! ''
There was .
You remember that Jimmy Skunk had curled up in there for a nap .
Now Jimmy was awake , very much awake .
You see , for once in his life he was moving fast , very much faster than ever he had moved before since he was born .
And it was n't at all comfortable .
No , Sir , it was n't at all a comfortable way in which to travel .
He went over and over so fast that it made him dizzy .
First he was right side up and then wrong side up , so fast that he could n't tell which side up he was .
And every time that old barrel jumped when it went over a hummock , Jimmy was tossed up so that he hit whatever part of the barrel happened to be above him .
Of course , he could n't get out , because he was rolled over and over so fast that he did n't have a chance to try .
Now Reddy did n't know who was in the barrel .
He just knew by the sounds that some one was .
So he started down the hill after the barrel to see what would happen when it stopped .
All the time Peter Rabbit was dancing about in the greatest excitement , but taking the greatest care to keep close to that old house of Johnny Chuck 's so as to pop into it in case of danger .
He saw that Reddy Fox had quite forgotten all about him in his curiosity as to who was in the barrel , and he chuckled as he thought of what might happen when the barrel stopped rolling and Reddy found out .
Sammy Jay was flying overhead , screaming enough to split his throat .
Altogether , it was quite the most exciting thing Peter had ever seen .
Now it just happened that Old Man Coyote had started to cross the Green Meadows right at the foot of the hill just as the barrel started down .
Of course , he heard the noise and looked up to see what it meant .
When he saw that barrel rushing right down at him , it frightened him so that he just gave one yelp and started for the Old Pasture like a gray streak .
He gave Peter a chance to see just how fast he can run , and Peter made up his mind right then that he never would run a race with Old Man Coyote .
Down at the bottom of the hill was a big stone , and when the barrel hit this , the hoops broke , and the barrel fell all apart .
Peter decided that it was high time for him to get out of sight .
So he dodged into the old house of Johnny Chuck and lay low in the doorway , where he could watch .
He saw Jimmy Skunk lay perfectly still , and a great fear crept into his heart .
Had Jimmy been killed ?
He had n't once thought of what might happen to Jimmy when he planned that joke .
But presently Jimmy began to wave first one leg and then another , as if to make sure that he had some legs left .
Then slowly he rolled over and got on to his feet .
Peter breathed a sigh of relief .
IV JIMMY SKUNK IS VERY MAD INDEED When Jimmy Skunk is angry Then every one watch out !
It 's better far at such a time To be nowhere about .
Jimmy Skunk was angry this time and no mistake .
He was just plain mad , and when Jimmy Skunk feels that way , no one wants to be very near him .
You know he is one of the very best-natured little fellows in the world ordinarily .
He minds his own business , and if no one interferes with him , he interferes with no one .
But once he is aroused and feels that he has n't been treated fairly , look out for him !
And this time Jimmy was mad clear through , as he got to his feet and shook himself to see that he was all there .
I do n't know that any one could blame him .
To be wakened from a comfortable nap by being rolled over and over and shaken nearly to death as Jimmy had been by that wild ride down the hill in the old barrel was enough to make any one mad .
So he really is not to be blamed for feeling as he did .
Now Jimmy can never be accused of being stupid .
He knew that an old barrel which has been lying in one place for a long time does n't move of its own accord .
He knew that that barrel could n't possibly have started off down the hill unless some one had made it start , and he did n't have a doubt in the world that whoever had done it , had known that he was inside and had done it to make him uncomfortable .
So just as soon as he had made sure that he was really alive and quite whole , he looked about to see who could have played such a trick on him .
The first person he saw was Reddy Fox .
In fact , Reddy was right close at hand .
You see , he had raced down the hill after the barrel to see who was in it when he heard the strange noises coming from it as it rolled and bounded down .
If Reddy had known that it was Jimmy Skunk , he would have been quite content to remain at the top of the hill .
But he did n't know , and if the truth be known , he had hopes that it might prove to be some one who would furnish him with a good breakfast .
So , quite out of breath with running , Reddy arrived at the place where the old barrel had broken to pieces just as Jimmy got to his feet .
Now when Jimmy Skunk is angry , he does n't bite and he does n't scratch .
You know Old Mother Nature has provided him with a little bag of perfume which Jimmy does n't object to in the least , but which makes most people want to hold their noses and run .
He never uses it , excepting when he is angry or in danger , but when he does use it , his enemies always turn tail and run .
That is why he is afraid of no one , and why every one respects Jimmy and his rights .
He used it now , and he did n't waste any time about it .
He threw some of that perfume right in the face of Reddy Fox before Reddy had a chance to turn or to say a word .
`` Take that ! ''
snapped Jimmy Skunk .
`` Perhaps it will teach you not to play tricks on your honest neighbors ! ''
Poor Reddy !
Some of that perfume got in his eyes and made them smart dreadfully .
In fact , for a little while he could n't see at all .
And then the smell of it was so strong that it made him quite sick .
He rolled over and over on the ground , choking and gasping and rubbing his eyes .
Jimmy Skunk just stood and looked on , and there was n't a bit of pity in his eyes .
`` How do you like that ? ''
said he .
`` You thought yourself very smart , rolling me down hill in a barrel , did n't you ?
You might have broken my neck . ''
`` I did n't know you were in that barrel , and I did n't mean to roll it down the hill anyway , '' whined Reddy , when he could get his voice .
`` Huh ! ''
snorted Jimmy Skunk , who did n't believe a word of it .
`` I did n't .
Honestly I did n't , '' protested Reddy .
`` I ran against the barrel by accident , chasing Peter Rabbit .
I did n't have any idea that any one was in it . ''
`` Huh ! ''
said Jimmy Skunk again .
`` If you were chasing Peter Rabbit , where is he now ? ''
Reddy had to confess he did n't know .
He was nowhere in sight , and he certainly had n't had time to reach the dear Old Briar-patch .
Jimmy looked this way and that way , but there was no sign of Peter Rabbit .
`` Huh ! ''
said he again , turning his back on Reddy Fox and walking away with a great deal of dignity .
V REDDY FOX SNEAKS AWAY To sneak away is to steal away trying to keep out of sight of everybody , and is usually done only by those who for some reason or other are ashamed to be seen .
Just as soon as Reddy Fox could see after Jimmy Skunk had thrown that terrible perfume in Reddy 's face he started for the Green Forest .
He wanted to get away by himself .
But he did n't trot with his head up and his big plumey tail carried proudly as is usual with him .
No indeed .
Instead he hung his head , and his handsome tail was dropped between his legs ; he was the very picture of shame .
You see that terrible perfume which Jimmy Skunk had thrown at him clung to his red coat and he knew that he could n't get rid of it , not for a long time anyway .
And he knew , too , that wherever he went his neighbors would hold their noses and make fun of him , and that no one would have anything to do with him .
So he sneaked away across the Green Meadows towards the Green Forest and he felt too sick and mean and unhappy to even be angry with Sammy Jay , who was making fun of him and saying that he had got no more than he deserved .
Poor Reddy !
He did n't know what to do or where to go .
He could n't go home , for old Granny Fox would drive him out of the house .
She had warned him time and again never to provoke Jimmy Skunk , and he knew that she never would forgive him if he should bring that terrible perfume near their home .
He knew , too , that it would not be long before all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows would know what had happened to him .
Sammy Jay would see to that .
He knew just how they would point at him and make fun of him .
He would never hear the last of it .
He felt as if he never , never would be able to hold his head and his tail up again .
Every few minutes he stopped to roll over and over on the ground trying to get rid of that dreadful perfume .
When he reached the Green Forest he hurried over to the Laughing Brook to wash out his eyes .
It was just his luck to have Billy Mink come along while he was doing this .
Billy did n't need to be told what had happened .
`` Phew ! ''
he exclaimed , holding on to his nose .
Then he turned and hurried beyond the reach of that perfume .
There he stopped and made fun of Reddy Fox and said all the provoking things he could think of .
Reddy took no notice at all .
He felt too miserable to quarrel .
After he had washed his face he felt better .
Water would n't take away the awful smell , but it did take away the smart from his eyes .
Then he tried to plan what to do next .
`` The only thing I can do is to get as far away from everybody as I can , '' thought he .
`` I guess I 'll have to go up to the Old Pasture to live for a while . ''
So he started for the Old Pasture , keeping as much out of sight as possible .
On the way he remembered that Old Man Coyote lived there .
Of course it would never do to go near Old Man Coyote 's home for if he smelled that awful perfume and discovered that he , Reddy , was the cause of it he would certainly drive him out of the Old Pasture and then where could he go ?
So Reddy went to the loneliest part of the Old Pasture and crept into an old house that he and Granny had dug there long ago when they had been forced to live in the Old Pasture in the days when Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound had hunted them for stealing chickens .
There he stretched himself out and was perfectly miserable .
`` It would n't be so bad if I had really been to blame , but I was n't .
I did n't know Jimmy Skunk was in that barrel and I did n't mean to start it rolling down the hill anyway , '' he muttered .
`` It was all an accident and -- '' He stopped and into his yellow eyes crept a look of suspicion .
`` I wonder , '' said he slowly , `` if Peter Rabbit knew that Jimmy Skunk was there and planned to get me into all this trouble .
I wonder . ''
VI PETER RABBIT DOES N'T ENJOY HIS JOKE All the time that Jimmy Skunk was punishing Reddy Fox for rolling him down hill in a barrel , and while Reddy was sneaking away to the Green Forest to get out of sight , Peter Rabbit was lying low in the old house of Johnny Chuck , right near the place where Jimmy Skunk 's wild ride had come to an end .
It had been a great relief to Peter when he had seen Jimmy Skunk get to his feet , and he knew that Jimmy had n't been hurt in that wild ride .
Lying flat in the doorway of Johnny Chuck 's old house , Peter could see all that went on without being seen himself , and he could hear all that was said .
He chuckled as he saw Reddy Fox come up and his eyes were popping right out with excitement as he waited for what would happen next .
He felt sure that Reddy Fox was in for something unpleasant , and he was glad .
Of course , that was n't a bit nice of Peter .
Right down in his heart Peter knew it , but he had been chased so often by Reddy and given so many dreadful frights , that he felt now that he was getting even .
So he chuckled as he waited for what was to happen .
Suddenly that chuckle broke right off in the middle , and Peter cried `` Ouch ! ''
He had felt a pain as if a hot needle had been thrust into him .
It made him almost jump out of the doorway .
But he remembered in time that it would never , never do for him to show himself outside , for right away Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk would suspect that he had had something to do with that wild ride of Jimmy 's in the barrel .
So it would not do to show himself now .
No , indeed !
All he could do was to kick and squirm and twist his head around to see what was happening .
It did n't take long to find out .
Even as he looked , he felt another sharp pain which brought another `` Ouch ! ''
from him and made him kick harder than ever .
Two very angry little insects were just getting ready to sting him again , and more were coming .
They were Yellow Jackets , which you know belong to the wasp family and carry very sharp little lances in their tails .
The fact is , this old house of Johnny Chuck 's had been deserted so long the Yellow Jackets had decided that as no one else was using it , they would , and they had begun to build their home just inside the hall .
Poor Peter !
What could he do ?
He did n't dare go out , and he simply could n't stay where he was .
Whatever he did must be done quickly , for it looked to him as if a regular army of Yellow Jackets was coming , and those little lances they carried were about the most painful things he knew of .
By this time he had lost all interest in what was going on outside .
There was quite enough going on inside ; too much , in fact .
He remembered that Johnny Chuck digs his house deep down in the ground .
He looked down the long hall .
It was dark down there .
Perhaps if he went down there , these angry little warriors would n't follow him .
It was worth trying , anyway .
So Peter scrambled to his feet and scurried down the long hall , and as he ran , he cried `` Ouch !
Ouch !
Oh !
Ohoo ! ''
Those sharp little lances were very busy , and there was no way of fighting back .
At the end of the long hall was a snug little room , very dark but cool and comfortable .
It was just as he had hoped ; the Yellow Jackets did not follow him down there .
They had driven him away from their home , which was right near the entrance , and they were satisfied .
But what a fix he was in !
What a dreadful fix !
He ached and smarted all over .
My goodness , how he did smart !
And to get out he would have to go right past the Yellow Jacket home again .
`` Oh , dear , I wish I had never thought of such a joke , '' moaned Peter , trying in vain to find a comfortable position .
`` I guess I am served just right . ''
I rather think he was , do n't you ?
VII SAMMY JAY DOES SOME GUESSING Sammy Jay is a queer fellow .
Although he is a scamp and dearly loves to make trouble for his neighbors , he is always ready to take their part when others make trouble for them .
Many are the times he has given them warning of danger .
This is one reason they are quite willing to overlook his own shortcomings .
So , though in many ways he is no better than Reddy Fox , he dearly loves to upset Reddy 's plans and is very apt to rejoice when Reddy gets into trouble .
Of course , being right there , he saw all that happened when Reddy ran against the old barrel at the top of the hill and sent it rolling .
He had been quite as much surprised as Reddy to find that there was some one inside , and he had followed Reddy to see who it was .
So , of course , he had seen what happened to Reddy .
Now , instead of being sorry for Reddy , he had openly rejoiced .
It seems to be just that way with a great many people .
They like to see others who are considered very smart get into trouble .
So Sammy had laughed and made fun of poor Reddy .
In the first place it was very exciting , and Sammy dearly loves excitement .
And then it would make such a splendid story to tell , and no one likes to carry tales more than does Sammy Jay .
He watched Reddy sneak away to the Green Forest , and Jimmy Skunk slowly walk away in a very dignified manner .
Then Sammy flew back to the Old Orchard to spread the news among the little people there .
It was n't until he reached the Old Orchard that he remembered Peter Rabbit .
Instead of flying about telling every one what had happened to Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox , he found a comfortable perch in an old apple-tree and was strangely silent .
The fact is , Sammy Jay was doing some hard thinking .
He had suddenly begun to wonder .
It had popped into that shrewd little head of his that it was very strange how suddenly Peter Rabbit had disappeared .
`` Of course , '' thought Sammy , `` Jimmy Skunk is sure that Reddy rolled that barrel down hill purposely , and I do n't wonder that he does think so .
But I saw it all , and I know that it was all an accident so far as Reddy was concerned .
I did n't know that Jimmy was in that barrel , and Reddy could n't have known it , because he did n't come up here until after I did .
But Peter Rabbit may have known .
Why did Peter run so that he would have to jump over that barrel when he could have run right past it ?
`` Of course , he may have thought that if he could make Reddy run right slam bang against that barrel it would stop Reddy long enough to give him a chance to get away .
That would have been pretty smart of Peter and quite like him .
But somehow I have a feeling that he knew all the time that Jimmy Skunk was taking a nap inside and that something was bound to happen if he was disturbed .
The more I think of it , the more I believe that Peter did know and that he planned the whole thing .
If he did , it was one of the smartest tricks I ever heard of .
I did n't think Peter had it in him .
It was rather hard on Jimmy Skunk , but it got rid of Reddy Fox for a while .
He wo n't dare show his face around here for a long time .
That means that Peter will have one less worry on his mind .
Hello !
Here comes Jimmy Skunk .
I 'll ask him a few questions . ''
Jimmy came ambling along in his usual lazy manner .
He had quite recovered his good nature .
He felt that he was more than even with Reddy Fox , and as he was none the worse for his wild ride in the barrel , he had quite forgotten that he had lost his temper .
`` Hello , Jimmy .
Have you seen Peter Rabbit this morning ? ''
cried Sammy Jay .
Jimmy looked up and grinned .
`` Yes , '' said he .
`` I saw him up here early this morning .
Why ? ''
`` Did he see you go into that old barrel ? ''
persisted Sammy .
`` I do n't know , '' confessed Jimmy .
`` He may have .
What have you got on your mind , Sammy Jay ? ''
`` Nothing much , only Reddy Fox was chasing him when he ran against that barrel and sent you rolling down the hill , '' replied Sammy .
Jimmy pricked up his ears .
`` Then Reddy did n't do it purposely ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` No , '' replied Sammy .
`` He did n't do it purposely .
I am quite sure that he did n't know you were in it .
But how about Peter Rabbit ?
I am wondering .
And I 'm doing a little guessing , too . ''
VIII JIMMY SKUNK LOOKS FOR PETER Jimmy Skunk looked very hard at Sammy Jay .
Sammy Jay looked very hard at Jimmy Skunk .
Then Sammy slowly shut one eye and as slowly opened it again .
It was a wink .
`` You mean , '' said Jimmy Skunk , `` that you guess that Peter Rabbit knew that I was in that barrel , and that he jumped over it so as to make Reddy Fox run against it .
Is that it ? ''
Sammy Jay said nothing , but winked again .
Jimmy grinned .
Then he looked thoughtful .
`` I wonder , '' said he slowly , `` if Peter did it so as to gain time to get away from Reddy Fox . ''
`` I wonder , '' said Sammy Jay .
`` And I wonder if he did it just to get Reddy into trouble , '' continued Jimmy .
`` I wonder , '' repeated Sammy Jay .
`` And I wonder if he did it for a joke , a double joke on Reddy and myself , '' Jimmy went on , scratching his head thoughtfully .
`` I wonder , '' said Sammy Jay once more , and burst out laughing .
Now Jimmy Skunk has a very shrewd little head on his shoulders .
`` So that is your guess , is it ?
Well , I would n't be a bit surprised if you are right , '' said he , nodding his head .
`` I think I will go look for Peter .
I think he needs a lesson .
Jokes that put other people in danger or make them uncomfortable can have no excuse .
My neck might have been broken in that wild ride down the hill , and certainly I was made most uncomfortable .
I felt as if everything inside me was shaken out of place and all mixed up .
Even now my stomach feels a bit queer , as if it might not be just where it ought to be .
By the way , what became of Peter after he jumped over the barrel ? ''
Sammy shook his head .
`` I do n't know , '' he confessed .
`` You see , it was very exciting when that barrel started rolling , and we knew by the sounds that there was some one inside it .
I guess Reddy Fox forgot all about Peter .
I know I did .
And when the barrel broke to pieces against that stone down there , and you and Reddy faced each other , it was still more exciting .
After it was over , I looked for Peter , but he was nowhere in sight .
He had n't had time to reach the Old Briar-patch .
I really would like to know myself what became of him . ''
Jimmy Skunk turned and looked down the hill .
Then in his usual slow way he started back towards the broken barrel .
`` Where are you going ? ''
asked Sammy .
`` To look for Peter Rabbit , '' replied Jimmy .
`` I want to ask him a few questions . ''
Jimmy Skunk ambled along down the hill .
At first he was very angry as he thought of what Peter had done , and he made up his mind that Peter should be taught a lesson he would never forget .
But as he ambled along , the funny side of the whole affair struck him , for Jimmy Skunk has a great sense of humor , and before he reached the bottom of the hill his anger had all gone and he was chuckling .
`` I 'm sorry if I did Reddy Fox an injustice , '' thought he , `` but he makes so much trouble for other people that I guess no one else will be sorry .
He is n't likely to bother any one for some time .
Peter really ought to be punished , but somehow I do n't feel so much like punishing him as I did .
I 'll just give him a little scare and let the scamp off with that .
Now , I wonder where he can be .
I have an idea he is n't very far away .
Let me see .
Seems to me I remember an old house of Johnny Chuck 's not very far from here .
I 'll have a look in that . ''
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- IX JIMMY VISITS JOHNNY CHUCK 'S OLD HOUSE Jimmy Skunk was smiling as he ambled towards the old house of Johnny Chuck near the foot of the hill .
There was no one near to see him , and this made him smile still more .
You see , the odor of that perfume which he had thrown at Reddy Fox just a little while before was very , very strong there , and Jimmy knew that until that had disappeared no one would come near the place because it was so unpleasant for every one .
To Jimmy himself it was n't unpleasant at all , and he could n't understand why other people disliked it so .
He had puzzled over that a great deal .
He was glad that it was so , because on account of it every one treated him with respect and took special pains not to quarrel with him .
`` I guess it 's a good thing that Old Mother Nature did n't make us all alike , '' said he to himself .
`` I think there must be something the matter with their noses , and I suppose they think there is something the matter with mine .
But there is n't .
Not a thing .
Hello !
There is Johnny Chuck 's old house just ahead of me .
Now we will see what we shall see . ''
He walked softly as he drew near to the old house .
If Peter was way down inside , it would n't matter how he approached .
But if Peter should happen to be only just inside the doorway , he might take it into his head to run if he should hear footsteps , particularly if those footsteps were not heavy enough to be those of Reddy or Granny Fox or Old Man Coyote .
Jimmy did n't intend to give Peter a chance to do any such thing .
If Peter once got outside that old house , his long legs would soon put him beyond Jimmy 's reach , and Jimmy knew it .
If he was to give Peter the fright that he had made up his mind to give him , he would first have to get him where he could n't run away .
So Jimmy walked as softly as he knew how and approached the old house in such a way as to keep out of sight of Peter , should he happen to be lying so as to look out of the doorway .
At last he reached a position where with one jump he could land right on the doorstep .
He waited a few minutes and cocked his head on one side to listen .
There was n't a sound to tell him whether Peter was there or not .
Then lightly he jumped over to the doorstep and looked in at the doorway .
There was no Peter to be seen .
`` If he is here , he is way down inside , '' thought Jimmy .
`` I wonder if he really is here .
I think I 'll look about a bit before I go in . ''
Now the doorstep was of sand , as Johnny Chuck 's doorsteps always are .
Almost at once Jimmy chuckled .
There were Peter 's tracks , and they pointed straight towards the inside of Johnny Chuck 's old house .
Jimmy looked carefully , but not a single track pointing the other way could he find .
Then he chuckled again .
`` The scamp is here all right , '' he muttered .
`` He hid here and watched all that happened and then decided to lie low and wait until he was sure that the way was clear and no one would see him . ''
In this Jimmy was partly right and partly wrong , as you and I know .
He stared down the long dark doorway a minute .
Then he made up his mind .
`` I 'll go down and make Peter a call , and I wo n't bother to knock , '' he chuckled , and poked his head inside the doorway .
But that was as far as Jimmy Skunk went .
Yes , Sir , that was just as far as Jimmy Skunk went .
You see , no sooner did he start to enter that old house of Johnny Chuck 's than he was met by a lot of those Yellow Jackets , and they were in a very bad temper .
Jimmy Skunk knows all about Yellow Jackets and the sharp little lances they carry in their tails ; he has the greatest respect for them .
He backed out in a hurry and actually hurried away to a safe distance .
Then he sat down to think .
After a little he began to chuckle again .
`` I know what happened , '' said he , talking to himself .
`` Peter Rabbit popped into that doorway .
Those Yellow Jackets just naturally got after him .
He did n't dare come out for fear of Reddy Fox and me , and so he went on down to Jimmy Chuck 's old bedroom , and he 's down there now , wondering how ever he is to get out without getting stung .
I reckon I do n't need to scare Peter to pay him for that joke .
I reckon he 's been punished already . ''
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- X PETER RABBIT IS MOST UNCOMFORTABLE If ever any one was sorry for having played pranks on other folks , that one was Peter Rabbit .
I am afraid it was n't quite the right kind of sorrow .
You see , he was n't sorry because of what had happened to Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox , but because of what had happened to himself .
There he was , down in the bedroom of Johnny Chuck 's old house , smarting and aching all over from the sharp little lances of the Yellow Jackets who had driven him down there before he had had a chance to see what happened to Reddy Fox .
That was bad enough , but what troubled Peter more was the thought that he could n't get out without once again facing those hot-tempered Yellow Jackets .
Peter wished with all his might that he had known about their home in Johnny Chuck 's old house before ever he thought of hiding there .
But wishes of that kind are about the most useless things in the world .
They would n't help him now .
He had so many aches and smarts that he did n't see how he could stand a single one more , and yet he could n't see how he was going to get out without receiving several more .
All at once he had a comforting thought .
He remembered that Johnny Chuck usually has a back door .
If that were the case here , he would be all right .
He would find out .
Cautiously he poked his head out of the snug bedroom .
There was the long hall down which he had come .
And there -- yes , Sir , there was another hall !
It must be the way to the back door .
Carefully Peter crept up it .
`` Funny , '' thought he , `` that I do n't see any light ahead of me . ''
And then he bumped his nose .
Yes , Sir , Peter bumped his nose against the end of that hall .
You see , it was an old house , and like most old houses it was rather a tumble-down affair .
Anyway , the back door had been blocked with a great stone , and the walls of the back hall had fallen in .
There was no way out there .
Sadly Peter backed out to the little bedroom .
He would wait until night , and perhaps then the Yellow Jackets would be asleep , and he could steal out the front way without getting any more stings .
Meanwhile he would try to get a nap and forget his aches and pains .
Hardly had Peter curled up for that nap when he heard a voice .
It sounded as if it came from a long way off , but he knew just where it came from .
It came from the doorway of that old house .
He knew , too , whose voice it was .
It was Jimmy Skunk 's voice .
`` I know where you are , Peter Rabbit , '' said the voice .
`` And I know why you are hiding down there .
I know , too , how it happened that I was rolled down hill in that barrel .
I 'm just giving you a little warning , Peter .
There are a lot of very angry Yellow Jackets up here , as you will find out if you try to come out before dark .
I 'm going away now , but I 'm going to come back about dark to wait for you .
I may want to play a little joke on you to pay you back for the one you played on me . ''
That put an end to Peter 's hope of a nap .
He shivered as he thought of what might happen to him if Jimmy Skunk should catch him .
What with his aches and pains from the stings of the Yellow Jackets , and fear of being caught by Jimmy Skunk , it was quite impossible to sleep .
He was almost ready to face those Yellow Jackets rather than wait and meet Jimmy Skunk .
Twice he started up the long hall , but turned back .
He just could n't stand any more stings .
He was miserable .
Yes , Sir , he was miserable and most uncomfortable in both body and mind .
`` I wish I 'd never thought of that joke , '' he half sobbed .
`` I thought it was a great joke , but it was n't .
It was a horrid , mean joke .
Why , oh , why did I ever think of it ? ''
Meanwhile Jimmy Skunk had gone off , chuckling .
XI JIMMY SKUNK KEEPS HIS WORD Keep your word , whate'er you do , And to your inmost self be true .
When Jimmy Skunk shouted down the hall of Johnny Chuck 's old house to Peter Rabbit that he would come back at dark , he was half joking .
He did it to make Peter uneasy and to worry him .
The truth is , Jimmy was no longer angry at all .
He had quite recovered his good nature and was very much inclined to laugh himself over Peter 's trick .
But he felt that it would n't do to let Peter off without some kind of punishment , and so he decided to frighten Peter a little .
He knew that Peter would n't dare come out during the daytime because of the Yellow Jackets whose home was just inside the doorway of that old house ; and he knew that Peter would n't dare face him , for he would be afraid of being treated as Reddy Fox had been .
So that is why he told Peter that he was coming back at dark .
He felt that if Peter was kept a prisoner in there for a while , all the time worrying about how he was to get out , he would be very slow to try such a trick again .
As Jimmy ambled away to look for some beetles , he chuckled and chuckled and chuckled .
`` I guess that by this time Peter wishes he had n't thought of that joke on Reddy Fox and myself , '' said he .
`` Perhaps I 'll go back there tonight and perhaps I wo n't .
He wo n't know whether I do or not , and he wo n't dare come out . ''
Then he stopped and scratched his head thoughtfully .
Then he sighed .
Then he scratched his head again and once more sighed .
`` I really do n't want to go back there tonight , '' he muttered , `` but I guess I 'll have to .
I said I would , and so I 'll have to do it .
I believe in keeping my word .
If I should n't and some day he should find it out , he would n't believe me the next time I happened to say I would do a thing .
Yes , Sir , I 'll have to go back .
There is nothing like making people believe that when you say a thing you mean it .
There is nothing like keeping your word to make people respect you . ''
Being naturally rather lazy , Jimmy decided not to go any farther than the edge of the Old Orchard , which was only a little way above Johnny Chuck 's old house , where Peter was a prisoner .
There Jimmy found a warm , sunny spot and curled up for a nap .
In fact , he spent all the day there .
When jolly , round , red Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows came trooping across the Green Meadows , Jimmy got up , yawned , chuckled , and then slowly ambled down to Johnny Chuck 's old house .
A look at the footprints in the sand on the doorstep told him that Peter had not come out .
Jimmy sat down and waited until it was quite dark .
Then he poked his head in at the doorway .
The Yellow Jackets had gone to bed for the night .
`` Come out , Peter .
I 'm waiting for you ! ''
he called down the hall , and made his voice sound as angry as he could .
But inside he was chuckling .
Then Jimmy Skunk calmly turned and went about his business .
He had kept his word .
As for Peter Rabbit , that had been one of the very worst days he could recall .
He had ached and smarted from the stings of the Yellow Jackets ; he had worried all day about what would happen to him if he did meet Jimmy Skunk , and he was hungry .
He had had just a little bit of hope , and this was that Jimmy Skunk would n't come back when it grew dark .
He had crept part way up the hall at the first hint of night and stretched himself out to wait until he could be sure that those dreadful Yellow Jackets had gone to sleep .
He had just about made up his mind that it was safe for him to scamper out when Jimmy Skunk 's voice came down the hall to him .
Poor Peter !
The sound of that voice almost broke his heart .
`` He has come back .
He 's kept his word , '' he half sobbed as he once more went back to Johnny Chuck 's old bedroom .
There he stayed nearly all the rest of the night , though his stomach was so empty it ached .
Just before it was time for Mr. Sun to rise , Peter ventured to dash out of Johnny Chuck 's old house .
He got past the home of the Yellow Jackets safely , for they were not yet awake .
With his heart in his mouth , he sprang out of the doorway .
Jimmy Skunk was n't there .
With a sigh of relief , Peter started for the dear , safe Old Briar-patch , lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as he could go .
`` I 'll never , never play another joke , '' he said , over and over again as he ran .
XII JIMMY SKUNK AND UNC ' BILLY POSSUM MEET Jimmy Skunk ambled along down the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest .
He did n't hurry .
Jimmy never does hurry .
Hurrying and worrying are two things he leaves for his neighbors .
Now and then Jimmy stopped to turn over a bit of bark or a stick , hoping to find some fat beetles .
But it was plain to see that he had something besides fat beetles on his mind .
Up the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest shuffled Unc ' Billy Possum .
He did n't hurry .
It was too warm to hurry .
Unlike Jimmy Skunk , he does hurry sometimes , does Unc ' Billy , especially when he suspects that Bowser the Hound is about .
And sometimes Unc ' Billy does worry .
You see , there are people who think that Unc ' Billy would make a very good dinner .
Unc ' Billy does n't think he would .
Anyway , he has no desire to have the experiment tried .
So occasionally , when he discovers one of these people who think he would make a good dinner , he worries a little .
But just now Unc ' Billy was neither hurrying nor worrying .
There was no need of doing either , and Unc ' Billy never does anything that there is no need of doing .
So Unc ' Billy shuffled up the Lone Little Path , and Jimmy Skunk ambled down the Lone Little Path , and right at a bend in the Lone Little Path they met .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- Jimmy Skunk grinned .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy ! ''
said he .
`` Have you seen any fat beetles this morning ? ''
Unc ' Billy grinned .
`` Good mo ` nin ' , Brer Skunk , '' he replied .
`` Ah ca n't rightly say Ah have .
Ah had it on mah mind to ask yo ' the same thing . ''
Jimmy sat down and looked at Unc ' Billy with twinkling eyes .
His grin grew broader and became a chuckle .
`` Unc ' Billy , '' said he , `` have you ever in your life combed your hair or brushed your coat ? ''
You know Unc ' Billy usually looks as if every hair was trying to point in a different direction from every other hair , while Jimmy Skunk always appears as neat as if he spent half his time brushing and smoothing his handsome black and white coat .
Unc ' Billy 's eyes twinkled .
`` Ah reckons Ah did such a thing once or twice when Ah was very small , Brer Skunk , '' said he , without a trace of a smile .
`` But it seems to me a powerful waste of time .
Ah have mo ' important things to worry about .
By the way , Brer Skunk , did yo ' ever run away from anybody in all your life ? ''
Jimmy looked surprised at the question .
He scratched his head thoughtfully .
`` Not that I remember of , '' said he after a little .
`` Most folks run away from me , '' he added with a little throaty chuckle .
`` Those who do n't run away always are polite and step aside .
It may be that when I was a very little fellow and did n't know much about the Great World and the people who live in it , I might have run away from some one , but if I did , I ca n't remember it .
Why do you ask , Unc ' Billy ? ''
`` Oh , no reason in particular , Brer Skunk .
No reason in particular .
Only Ah wonder sometimes if yo ' ever realize how lucky yo ' are .
If Ah never had to worry about mah hungry neighbors , Ah reckons perhaps Ah might brush mah coat oftener . ''
Unc ' Billy 's eyes twinkled more than ever .
`` Worry , '' replied Jimmy Skunk sagely , `` is the result of being unprepared .
Anybody who is prepared has no occasion to worry .
Just think it over , Unc ' Billy . ''
It was Unc ' Billy 's turn to scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` Ah fear Ah do n't quite get your meaning , Brer Skunk , '' said he .
`` Sit down , Unc ' Billy , and I 'll explain , '' replied Jimmy .
XIII JIMMY SKUNK EXPLAINS You 'll find this true where'er you go That those prepared few troubles know .
`` To begin with , I am not such a very big fellow , am I ? ''
said Jimmy .
`` Ah reckons Ah knows a right smart lot of folks bigger than yo ' , Brer Skunk , '' replied Unc ' Billy , with a grin .
You know Jimmy Skunk really is a little fellow compared with some of his neighbors .
`` And I have n't very long claws or very big teeth , have I ? ''
continued Jimmy .
`` Ah reckons mine are about as long and about as big , '' returned Unc ' Billy , looking more puzzled than ever .
`` But you never see anybody bothering me , do you ? ''
went on Jimmy .
`` No , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
`` And it 's the same way with Prickly Porky the Porcupine .
You never see anybody bothering him or offering to do him any harm , do you ? ''
persisted Jimmy .
`` No , '' replied Unc ' Billy once more .
`` Why ? ''
demanded Jimmy .
Unc ' Billy grinned broadly .
`` Ah reckons , Brer Skunk , '' said he , `` that there is n't anybody wants to go fo ' to meddle with yo ' and Brer Porky .
Ah reckons most folks knows what would happen if they did , and that yo ' and Brer Porky are folks it 's a sight mo ' comfortable to leave alone .
Leastways , Ah does .
Ah ai n't aiming fo ' trouble with either of yo ' .
That li'l bag of scent yo ' carry is cert ` nly most powerful , Brer Skunk , and Ah is n't hankering to brush against those little spears Brer Porky is so free with .
Ah knows when Ah 's well off , and Ah reckons most folks feel the same way . ''
Jimmy Skunk chuckled .
`` One more question , Unc ' Billy , '' said he .
`` Did you ever know me to pick a quarrel and use that bag of scent without being attacked ? ''
Unc ' Billy considered for a few minutes .
`` Ah ca n't say Ah ever did , '' he replied .
`` And you never knew Prickly Porky to go hunting trouble either , '' declared Jimmy .
`` We do n't either of us go hunting trouble , and trouble never comes hunting us , and the reason is that we both are always prepared for trouble and everybody knows it .
Buster Bear could squash me by just stepping on me , but he does n't try it .
You notice he always is very polite when we meet .
Prickly Porky and I are armed for defence , but we never use our weapons for offence .
Nobody bothers us , and we bother nobody .
That 's the beauty of being prepared . ''
Unc ' Billy thought it over for a few minutes .
Then he sighed and sighed again .
`` Ah reckons yo ' and Brer Porky are about the luckiest people Ah knows , '' said he .
`` Yes , Sah , Ah reckons yo ' is just that .
Ah do n't fear anybody mah own size , but Ah cert ` nly does have some mighty scary times when Ah meets some people Ah might mention .
Ah wish Ol' Mother Nature had done gone and given me something fo ' to make people as scary of me as they are of yo ' .
Ah cert ` nly believes in preparedness after seein ' yo ' , Brer Skunk .
Ah cert ` nly does just that very thing .
Have yo ' found any nice fresh aiggs lately ? ''
XIV A LITTLE SOMETHING ABOUT EGGS `` An egg , '' says Jimmy Skunk , `` is good ; It 's very good indeed to eat . ''
`` An egg , '' says Mrs. Grouse , `` is dear ; ` Twill hatch into a baby sweet . ''
So in the matter of eggs , as in a great many other matters , it all depends on the point of view .
To Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum eggs are looked on from the viewpoint of something to eat .
Their stomachs prompt them to think of eggs .
Eggs are good to fill empty stomachs .
The mere thought of eggs will make Jimmy and Unc ' Billy smack their lips .
They say they `` love '' eggs , but they do n't .
They `` like '' them , which is quite different .
But Mrs. Grouse and most of the other feathered people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows and the Old Orchard really do `` love '' eggs .
It is the heart instead of the stomach that responds to the thought of eggs .
To them eggs are almost as precious as babies , because they know that some day , some day very soon , those eggs will become babies .
There are a few feathered folks , I am sorry to say , who `` love '' their own eggs , but `` like '' the eggs of other people -- like them just as Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum do , to eat .
Blacky the Crow is one and his cousin , Sammy Jay , is another .
So in the springtime there is always a great deal of matching of wits between the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows and the Old Orchard .
Those who have eggs try to keep them a secret or to build the nests that hold them where none who like to eat them can get them ; and those who have an appetite for eggs try to find them .
When Unc ' Billy Possum suddenly changed the subject by asking Jimmy Skunk if he had found any nice fresh eggs lately , he touched a subject very close to Jimmy 's heart .
I should have said , rather , his stomach .
To tell the truth , it was a longing for some eggs that had brought Jimmy to the Green Forest .
He knew that somewhere there Mrs. Grouse must be hiding a nestful of the very nicest of eggs , and it was to hunt for these that he had come .
`` No , '' replied Jimmy , `` I have n't had any luck at all this spring .
I 've almost forgotten what an egg tastes like .
Either I 'm growing dull and stupid , or some folks are smarter than they used to be .
By the way , have you seen Mrs. Grouse lately ? ''
Jimmy looked very innocent as he asked this .
Unc ' Billy chuckled until his sides shook .
`` Do yo ' suppose Ah 'd tell yo ' if Ah had ? ''
he demanded .
`` Ah reckons Mrs. Grouse has n't got any mo ' aiggs than Ah could comfortably take care of mahself , not to mention Mrs. Possum . ''
Here Unc ' Billy looked back over his shoulder to make sure that old Mrs. Possum was n't within hearing , and Jimmy Skunk chuckled .
`` Seems to me , Brer Skunk , yo ' might better do your aigg hunting on the Green Meadows and leave the Green Forest to me , '' continued Unc ' Billy .
`` That would be no mo ' than fair .
Yo ' know Ah never did hanker fo ' to get far away from trees , but yo ' do n't mind .
Besides there are mo ' aiggs for yo ' to find on the Green Meadows than there are fo ' me to find in the Green Forest .
A right smart lot of birds make their nests on the ground there .
There is Brer Bob White and Brer Meadowlark and Brer Bobolink and Brer Field Sparrow and Brer -- '' `` Never mind any more , Unc ' Billy , '' interrupted Jimmy Skunk .
`` I know all about them .
That is , I know all about them I want to know , except where their eggs are .
Did n't I just tell you I have n't had any luck at all ?
That 's why I 'm over here . ''
`` Well , yo ' wo n't have any mo ' luck here unless yo ' are a right smart lot sharper than your Unc ' Billy , and when it comes to hunting aiggs , Ah do n't take mah hat off to anybody , not even to yo ' , Brer Skunk , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
XV A SECOND MEETING Jimmy Skunk could n't think of anything but eggs .
The more he thought of them , the more he wanted some .
After parting from Unc ' Billy Possum in the Green Forest he went back to the Green Meadows and prowled about , hunting for the nests of his feathered neighbors who build on the ground , and having no more luck than he had had before .
Unc ' Billy Possum was faring about the same way .
He could n't , for the life of him , stop thinking about those eggs that belonged to Mrs. Grouse .
The more he tried to forget about them , the more he thought about them .
`` Ah feels it in mah bones that there is n't the least bit of use in huntin ' fo ' them , '' said he to himself , as he watched Jimmy Skunk amble out of sight up the Lone Little Path .
`` No , Sah , there is n't the least bit of use .
Ah done look every place Ah can think of already .
Still , Ah have n't got anything else special on mah mind , and those aiggs cert ` nly would taste good .
Ah reckons it must be Ah needs those aiggs , or Ah would n't have them on mah mind so much .
Ah finds it rather painful to carry aiggs on mah mind all the time , but Ah would enjoy carrying them in mah stomach .
Ah cert ` nly would . ''
Unc ' Billy grinned and started to ramble about aimlessly , hoping that chance would lead him to the nest of Mrs. Grouse .
Do what he would , Unc ' Billy could n't get the thought of eggs off his mind , and the more he thought about them the more he wanted some .
And that led him to think of Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He had long ago resolved never again to go there , but the longing for a taste of eggs was too much for his good resolutions , and as soon as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun sank to rest behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows came creeping across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , Unc ' Billy slipped away , taking pains that old Mrs. Possum should n't suspect where he was going .
Out from the Green Forest , keeping among the Black Shadows along by the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , he stole , and so at last he reached Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He stopped to listen .
There was no sign of Bowser the Hound , and Unc ' Billy sighed gently .
It was a sigh of relief .
Then he crept around a corner of the henhouse towards a certain hole under it he remembered well .
Just as he reached it , he saw something white .
It moved .
It was coming towards him from the other end of the henhouse .
Unc ' Billy stopped right where he was .
He was undecided whether to run or stay .
Then he heard a little grunt and decided to stay .
He even grinned .
A few seconds later up came Jimmy Skunk .
It was a white stripe on Jimmy 's coat that Unc ' Billy had seen .
Jimmy gave a little snort of surprise when he almost bumped into Unc ' Billy .
`` What are you doing here ? ''
he demanded .
`` Just taking a li'l walk fo ' the good of mah appetite , '' replied Unc ' Billy , grinning more broadly than ever .
`` What are yo ' doing here , Brer Skunk ? ''
`` The same thing , '' replied Jimmy .
Then he chuckled .
`` This is an unexpected meeting .
I guess you must have had the same thing on your mind all day that I have , '' he added .
`` Ah reckon so , '' replied Unc ' Billy , and both grinned .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XVI A MATTER OF POLITENESS It costs not much to be polite And , furthermore , it 's always right .
Unc ' Billy Possum and Jimmy Skunk , facing each other among the Black Shadows close by a hole that led under Farmer Brown 's henhouse , chuckled as each thought of what had brought the other there .
It is queer how a like thought often brings people together .
Unc ' Billy had the same longing in his stomach that Jimmy Skunk had , and Jimmy Skunk had the same thing on his mind that Unc ' Billy had .
More than this , it was the second time that day that they had met .
They had met in the morning in the Green Forest and now they had met again among the Black Shadows of the evening at Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
And it was all on account of eggs .
Yes , Sir , it was all on account of eggs .
`` Are you just coming out , or are you just going in ? ''
Jimmy inquired politely .
`` Ah was just going in , but Ah 'll follow yo ' , Brer Skunk , '' replied Unc ' Billy just as politely .
`` Nothing of the kind , '' returned Jimmy .
`` I would n't for a minute think of going before you .
I hope I know my manners better than that . ''
`` Yo ' cert ` nly are most polite , Brer Skunk .
Yo ' cert ` nly are most polite .
Yo ' are a credit to your bringing up , but politeness always did run in your family .
There is a saying that han ` some is as han ` some does , and your politeness is as fine as yo ' are han ` some , Brer Skunk .
Ah 'll just step one side and let yo ' go first just to show that Ah sho ` ly does appreciate your friendship , '' said Unc ' Billy .
Jimmy Skunk chuckled .
`` I guess you 've forgotten that other old saying , ` Age before beauty , ' Unc ' Billy , '' said he .
`` So you go first .
You know you are older than I. I could n't think of being so impolite as to go first .
I really could n't think of such a thing . ''
And so they argued and argued , each insisting in the most polite way that the other should go first .
If the truth were known , neither of them was insisting out of politeness at all .
No , Sir , politeness had nothing to do with it Jimmy Skunk wanted Unc ' Billy to go first because Jimmy believes in safety first , and it had popped into Jimmy 's head that there might , there just might , happen to be a trap inside that hole .
If there was , he much preferred that Unc ' Billy should be the one to find it out .
Yes , Sir , that is why Jimmy Skunk was so very polite .
Unc ' Billy wanted Jimmy to go first because he always feels safer behind Jimmy than in front of him .
He has great respect for that little bag of scent that Jimmy carries , and he knows that when Jimmy makes use of it , he always throws it in front and never behind him .
Jimmy seldom uses it , but sometimes he does if he happens to be startled and thinks danger near .
So Unc ' Billy preferred that Jimmy should go first .
It was n't politeness at all on the part of Unc ' Billy .
In both cases it was a kind of selfishness .
Each was thinking of self .
How long they would have continued to argue and try to appear polite if something had n't happened , nobody knows .
But something did happen .
There was a sudden loud sniff just around the corner of the henhouse .
It was from Bowser the Hound .
Right then and there Unc ' Billy Possum and Jimmy Skunk forgot all about politeness , and both tried to get through that hole at the same time .
They could n't , because it was n't big enough , but , they tried hard .
Bowser sniffed again , and this time Unc ' Billy managed to squeeze Jimmy aside and slip through .
Jimmy was right at his heels .
XVII JIMMY SKUNK GETS A BUMP Hardly had Jimmy Skunk entered the hole under Farmer Brown 's henhouse , following close on the heels of Unc ' Billy Possum , than along came Bowser the Hound , sniffing and sniffing in a way that made Unc ' Billy nervous .
When Bowser reached that hole , of course he smelled the tracks of Unc ' Billy and Jimmy , and right away he became excited .
He began to dig .
Goodness , how he did make the dirt fly !
All the time he whined with eagerness .
Unc ' Billy wasted no time in squeezing through a hole in the floor way over in one corner , a hole that Farmer Brown 's boy had intended to nail a board over long before .
Unc ' Billy knew that Bowser could n't get through that , even if he did manage to dig his way under the henhouse .
Once through that and fairly in the henhouse , Unc ' Billy drew a long breath .
He felt safe for the time being , anyway , and he did n't propose to worry over the future .
Jimmy Skunk hurried after Unc ' Billy .
It was n't fear that caused Jimmy to hurry .
No , indeed , it was n't fear .
He had been startled by the unexpectedness of Bowser 's appearance .
It was this that had caused him to struggle to be first through that hole under the henhouse .
But once through , he had felt a bit ashamed that he had been so undignified .
He was n't afraid of Bowser .
He was sorely tempted to turn around and send Bowser about his business , as he knew he very well could .
But he thought better of it .
Besides , Unc ' Billy was already through that hole in the floor , and Jimmy did n't for a minute forget what had brought him there .
He had come for eggs , and so had Unc ' Billy .
It would never do to let Unc ' Billy be alone up there for long .
So Jimmy Skunk did what he very seldom does -- hurried .
Yes , Sir , he hurried after Unc ' Billy Possum .
He meant to make sure of his share of the eggs he was certain were up there .
There was a row of nesting boxes along one side close to the floor .
Above these was another row and above these a third row .
Jimmy does n't climb , but Unc ' Billy is a famous climber .
`` I 'll take these lower nests , '' said Jimmy , and lifted his tail in a way that made Unc ' Billy nervous .
`` All right , '' replied Unc ' Billy promptly .
`` All right , Brer Skunk .
It 's just as yo ' say . ''
With this , Unc ' Billy scrambled up to the next row of nests .
Jimmy grinned and started to look in the lower nests .
He took his time about it , for that is Jimmy 's way .
There was nothing in the first one and nothing in the second one and nothing in the third one .
This was disappointing , to say the least , and Jimmy began to move a little faster .
Meanwhile Unc ' Billy had hurried from one nest to another in the second row with no better success .
By the time Jimmy was half-way along his row Unc ' Billy bad begun on the upper row , and the only eggs he had found were hard china nest-eggs put there by Farmer Brown 's boy to tempt the hens to lay in those particular nests .
Disappointment was making Unc ' Billy lose his temper .
Each time he peeped in a nest and saw one of those china eggs , he hoped it was a real egg , and each time when he found it was n't he grew angrier .
At last he so lost his temper that when he found another of those eggs he angrily kicked it out of the nest .
Now it happened that Jimmy Skunk was just underneath .
Down fell that hard china egg squarely on Jimmy Skunk 's head .
For just a minute Jimmy saw stars .
At least , he thought he did .
Then he saw the egg , and knew that Unc ' Billy had knocked it down , and that it was this that had hit him .
Jimmy was sore at heart because he had found no eggs , and now he had a bump on the head that also was sore .
Jimmy Skunk lost his temper , a thing he rarely does .
XVIII A SAD , SAD QUARREL Jimmy Skunk sat on the floor of Farmer Brown 's henhouse , rubbing his head and glaring up at the upper row of nests with eyes red with anger .
Of course it was dark in the henhouse , for it was night , but Jimmy can see in the dark , just as so many other little people who wear fur can .
What he saw was the anxious looking face of Unc ' Billy Possum staring down at him .
`` You did that purposely ! ''
snapped Jimmy .
`` You did that purposely , and you need n't tell me you did n't . ''
`` On mah honor Ah did n't , '' protested Unc ' Billy .
`` It was an accident , just a sho ' ` nuff accident , and Ah 'm right sorry fo ' it . ''
`` That sounds very nice , but I do n't believe a word of it .
You did it purposely , and you ca n't make me believe anything else .
Come down here and fight .
I dare you to ! ''
Jimmy was getting more and more angry every minute .
Unc ' Billy began to grow angry .
Of course , it was wholly his fault that that egg had fallen , but it was n't his fault that Jimmy had happened to be just beneath .
He had n't known that Jimmy was there .
He had apologized , and he felt that no one could do more than that .
Jimmy Skunk had doubted his word , had refused to believe him , and that made him angry .
His little eyes glowed with rage .
`` If yo ' want to fight , come up here .
I 'll wait fo ' yo ' right where Ah am , '' he sputtered .
This made Jimmy angrier than ever .
He could n't climb up there , and he knew that Unc ' Billy knew it .
Unc ' Billy was perfectly safe in promising to wait for him .
`` You 're a coward , just a plain no-account coward ! ''
snapped Jimmy .
`` I 'm not going to climb up there , but I 'll tell you what I am going to do ; I 'm going to wait right down here until you come down , if it is n't until next year .
Nobody can drop things on my head and not get paid back .
I thought you were a friend , but now I know better . ''
`` Wait as long as yo ' please .
Ah reckons Ah can stay as long as yo ' can , '' retorted Unc ' Billy , grinding and snapping his teeth .
`` Suit yourself , '' retorted Jimmy .
`` I 'm going to pay you up for that bump on my head or know the reason why . ''
And so they kept on quarreling and calling each other names , for the time being quite forgetting that they were where they had no business to be , either of them .
It really was dreadful .
And it was all because both had been sadly disappointed .
They had found no eggs where they had been sure they would find plenty .
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy had gathered every egg when he shut the biddies up for the night .
Did you ever notice what a bad thing for the temper disappointment often is ?
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XIX JIMMY SKUNK IS TRUE TO HIS WORD Unc ' Billy Possum was having a bad night of it .
When he had grown tired of quarreling with Jimmy Skunk , he had tried to take a nap .
He had tried first one nest and then another , but none just suited him .
This was partly because he was n't sleepy .
He was hungry and not at all sleepy .
He wished with all his heart that he had n't foolishly yielded to that fit of temper which had resulted in kicking that china nest-egg out of a nest and down on the head of Jimmy Skunk , making Jimmy so thoroughly angry .
Unc ' Billy had no intention of going down while Jimmy was there .
He thought that Jimmy would soon grow tired of waiting and go away .
So for quite awhile Unc ' Billy did n't worry .
But as it began to get towards morning he began to grow anxious .
Unc ' Billy had no desire to be found in that henhouse when Farmer Brown 's boy came to feed the biddies .
Then , too , he was hungry .
He had counted on a good meal of eggs , and not one had he found .
Now he wanted to get out to look for something else to eat , but he could n't without facing Jimmy Skunk , and it was better to go hungry than to do that .
Yes , Sir , it was a great deal better to go hungry .
Several times , when he thought Jimmy was asleep , he tried to steal down .
He was just as careful not to make a sound as he could be , but every time Jimmy knew and was waiting for him .
Unc ' Billy wished that there was no such place as Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He wished he had never thought of eggs .
He wished many other foolish wishes , but most of all he wished that he had n't lost his temper and kicked that egg down on Jimmy Skunk 's head .
When the first light stole in under the door and the biddies began to stir uneasily on their roosts Unc ' Billy 's anxiety would allow him to keep still no longer .
`` Don ' yo ' think we-uns better make up and get out of here , Brer Skunk ? ''
he ventured .
`` I do n't mind staying here ; it 's very comfortable , '' replied Jimmy , looking up at Unc ' Billy in a way that made him most uncomfortable .
It was plain to see that Jimmy had n't forgiven him .
For some time Unc ' Billy said no more , but he grew more and more restless .
You see , he knew it would soon be time for Farmer Brown 's boy to come to let the hens out and feed them .
At last he ventured to speak again .
`` Ah reckons yo ' done forget something , '' said he .
`` What is that ? ''
asked Jimmy .
`` Ah reckons yo ' done fo ` get that it 's most time fo ' Farmer Brown 's boy to come , and it wo n't do fo ' we-uns to be found in here , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
`` I 'm not worrying about Farmer Brown 's boy .
He can come as soon as he pleases , '' retorted Jimmy Skunk , and grinned .
That sounded like boasting , but it was n't .
No , Sir , it was n't , and Unc ' Billy knew it .
He knew that Jimmy meant it .
Unc ' Billy was in despair .
He did n't dare stay , and he did n't dare go down and face Jimmy Skunk , and there he was .
It certainly had been a bad night for Unc ' Billy Possum .
XX FARMER BROWN 'S BOY ARRIVES The light crept farther under the door of Farmer Brown 's henhouse , and by this time the hens were all awake .
Furthermore , they had discovered Jimmy Skunk down below and were making a great fuss .
They were cackling so that Unc ' Billy was sure Farmer Brown 's boy would soon hear them and hurry out to find out what the noise was all about .
`` If yo ' would just get out of sight , Brer Skunk , Ah reckons those fool hens would keep quiet , '' Unc ' Billy ventured .
`` I do n't mind their noise .
It does n't trouble me a bit , '' replied Jimmy Skunk , and grinned .
It was plain enough to Unc ' Billy that Jimmy was enjoying the situation .
But Unc ' Billy was n't .
He was so anxious that he could n't keep still .
He paced back and forth along the shelf in front of the upper row of nests and tried to make up his mind whether it would be better to go down and face Jimmy Skunk or to try to hide under the hay in one of the nests , and all the time he kept listening and listening and listening for the footsteps of Farmer Brown 's boy .
At last he heard them , and he knew by the sound that Farmer Brown 's boy was coming in a hurry .
He had heard the noise of the hens and was coming to find out what it was all about .
Unc ' Billy hoped that now Jimmy Skunk would retreat through the hole in the floor and give him a chance to escape .
`` He 's coming !
Farmer Brown 's boy is coming , Brer Skunk !
Yo ' better get away while yo ' can ! ''
whispered Unc ' Billy .
`` I hear him , '' replied Jimmy calmly .
`` I 'm waiting for him to open the door for me to go out .
It will be much easier than squeezing through that hole . ''
Unc ' Billy gasped .
He knew , of course , that it was Jimmy Skunk 's boast that he feared no one , but it was hard to believe that Jimmy really intended to face Farmer Brown 's boy right in his own henhouse where Jimmy had no business to be .
He hoped that at last Jimmy 's boldness would get him into trouble .
Yes , he did .
You see , that might give him a chance to slip away himself .
Otherwise , he would be in a bad fix .
The latch on the door rattled .
Unc ' Billy crept into one of the nests , but frightened as he was , he could n't keep from peeping over the edge to see what would happen .
The door swung open , letting in a flood of light .
The hens stopped their noise .
Farmer Brown 's boy stood in the doorway and looked in .
Jimmy Skunk lifted his big plume of a tail just a bit higher than usual and calmly and without the least sign of being in a hurry walked straight towards the open door .
Of course Farmer Brown 's boy saw him at once .
`` So it 's you , you black and white rascal ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` I suppose you expect me to step out of your way , and I suppose I will do just that very thing .
You are the most impudent and independent fellow of my acquaintance .
That 's what you are .
You did n't get any eggs , because I gathered all of them last night .
And you did n't get a chicken because they were wise enough to stay on their roosts , so I do n't know as I have any quarrel with you , and I 'm sure I do n't want any .
Come along out of there , you rascal . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy stepped aside , and Jimmy Skunk calmly and without the least sign of hurry or worry walked out , stopped for a drink at the pan of water in the henyard , walked through the henyard gate , and turned towards the stone wall along the edge of the Old Orchard .
XXI THE NEST-EGG GIVES UNC ' BILLY AWAY 'T is little things that often seem Scarce worth a passing thought Which in the end may prove that they With big results are fraught .
Farmer Brown 's boy watched Jimmy Skunk calmly and peacefully go his way and grinned as he watched him .
He scratched his head thoughtfully .
`` I suppose , '' said he , `` that that is as perfect an example of the value of preparedness as there is .
Jimmy knew he was all ready for trouble if I chose to make it , and that because of that I would n't make it .
So he has calmly gone his way as if he were as much bigger than I as I am bigger than he .
There certainly is nothing like being prepared if you want to avoid trouble . ''
Then Farmer Brown 's boy once more turned to the henhouse and entered it .
He looked to make sure that no hen had been foolish enough to go to sleep where Jimmy could have caught her , and satisfied of this , he would have gone about his usual morning work of feeding the hens but for one thing .
That one thing was the china nest-egg on the floor .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaimed Farmer Brown 's boy when he saw it .
`` Now how did that come there ?
It must be that Jimmy Skunk pulled it out of one of those lower nests . ''
Now he knew just which nests had contained nest-eggs , and it did n't take but a minute to find that none was missing in any of the lower nests .
`` That 's queer , '' he muttered .
`` That egg must have come from one of the upper nests .
Jimmy could n't have got up to those .
None of the hens could have kicked it out last night , because they were all on the roosts when I shut them up .
They certainly did n't do it this morning , because they would n't have dared leave the roosts with Jimmy Skunk here .
I 'll have to look into this . ''
So he began with the second row of nests and looked in each .
Then he started on the upper row , and so he came to the nest in which Unc ' Billy Possum was hiding under the hay and holding his breath .
Now Unc ' Billy had covered himself up pretty well with the hay , but he had forgotten one thing ; he had forgotten his tail .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy had forgotten his tail , and it hung just over the edge of the nest .
Of course , Farmer Brown 's boy saw it .
He could n't help but see it .
`` Ho , ho ! ''
he exclaimed right away .
`` Ho , ho !
So there was more than one visitor here last night .
This henhouse seems to be a very popular place .
I see that the first thing for me to do after breakfast is to nail a board over that hole in the floor .
So it was you , Unc ' Billy Possum , who kicked that nest-egg out .
Found it a little hard for your teeth , did n't you ?
Lost your temper and kicked it out , did n't you ?
That was foolish , Unc ' Billy , very foolish indeed .
Never lose your temper over trifles .
It does n't pay .
Now I wonder what I 'd better do with you . ''
All this time Unc ' Billy had n't moved .
Of course , he could n't understand what Farmer Brown 's boy was saying .
Nor could he see what Farmer Brown 's boy was doing .
So he held his breath and hoped and hoped that he had n't been discovered .
And perhaps he would n't have been but for that telltale nest-egg on the floor .
That was the cause of all his troubles .
First it had angered Jimmy Skunk because as you remember , it had fallen on Jimmy 's head .
Then it had led Farmer Brown 's boy to look in all the nests .
It had seemed a trifle , kicking that egg out of that nest , but see what the results were .
Truly , little things often are not so little as they seem .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XXII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM TRIES HIS OLD TRICK The first knowledge Unc ' Billy Possum had that he was discovered came to him through his tail .
Yes , Sir , it came to him through his tail .
Farmer Brown 's boy pinched it .
It was rather a mean thing to do , but Farmer Brown 's boy was curious .
He wanted to see what Unc ' Billy would do .
And he did n't pinch very hard , not hard enough to really hurt .
Farmer Brown 's boy is too good-hearted to hurt any one if he can help it .
Now any other of the Green Forest and Green Meadows people would promptly have pulled their tail away had they been in Unc ' Billy 's place .
But Unc ' Billy did n't .
No , Sir , Unc ' Billy did n't .
That tail might have belonged to any one but him so far as he made any sign .
Of course , he felt like pulling it away .
Any one would have in his place .
But he did n't move it the tiniest bit , which goes to show that Unc ' Billy has great self-control when he wishes .
Farmer Brown 's boy pinched again , just a little harder , but still Unc ' Billy made no sign .
Farmer Brown 's boy chuckled and began to pull on that tail .
He pulled and pulled until finally he had pulled Unc ' Billy out of his hiding-place , and he swung by his tail from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy .
There was n't the least sign of life about Unc ' Billy .
He looked as if he were dead , and he acted as if he were dead .
Any one not knowing Unc ' Billy would have supposed that he was dead .
Farmer Brown 's boy dropped Unc ' Billy on the floor .
He lay just as he fell .
Farmer Brown 's boy rolled him over with his foot , but there was n't a sign of life in Unc ' Billy .
He hoped that Farmer Brown 's boy really did think him dead .
That was what he wanted .
Farmer Brown 's boy picked him up again and laid him on a box , first putting a board over the hole in the floor and closing the henhouse door .
Then he went about his work of cleaning out the henhouse and measuring out the grain for the biddies .
Unc ' Billy lay there on the box , and he certainly was pathetic looking .
A dead animal or bird is always pathetic looking , and none was ever more so than Unc ' Billy Possum as he lay on that box .
His hair was all rumpled up , as it usually is .
It was filled with dust from the floor and bits of straw .
His lips were drawn back and his mouth partly open .
His eyes seemed to be closed .
As a matter of fact , they were open just a teeny , weeny bit , just enough for Unc ' Billy to watch Farmer Brown 's boy .
But to have looked at him you would have thought him as dead as the deadest thing that ever was .
As he went about his work Farmer Brown 's boy kept an eye on Unc ' Billy and chuckled .
`` You old fraud , '' said he .
`` You think you are fooling me , but I know you .
Possums do n't die of nothing in hens ' nests .
You certainly are a clever old rascal , and the best actor I 've ever seen .
I wonder how long you will keep it up .
I wish I had half as much self-control . ''
When he had finished his work he picked Unc ' Billy up by the tail once more , opened the door , and started for the house with Unc ' Billy swinging from his hand and bumping against his legs .
Still Unc ' Billy gave no sign of life .
He wondered where he was being taken to .
He was terribly frightened .
But he stuck to his old trick of playing dead which had served him so well more than once before .
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- XXIII UNC ' BILLY GIVES HIMSELF AWAY Never had Unc ' Billy Possum played that old trick of his better than he was playing it now .
Farmer Brown 's boy knew that Unc ' Billy was only pretending to be dead , yet so well did Unc ' Billy pretend that it was hard work for Farmer Brown 's boy to believe what he knew was the truth -- that Unc ' Billy was very much alive and only waiting for a chance to slip away .
They were half-way from the henyard to the house when Bowser the Hound came to meet his master .
`` Now we shall see what we shall see , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy , as Bowser came trotting up .
`` If Unc ' Billy can stand this test , I 'll take off my hat to him every time we meet hereafter . ''
He held Unc ' Billy out to Bowser , and Bowser sniffed him all over .
Just imagine that !
Just think of being nosed and sniffed at by one of whom you were terribly afraid and not so much as twitching an ear !
Farmer Brown 's boy dropped Unc ' Billy on the ground , and Bowser rolled him over and sniffed at him and then looked up at his master , as much as to say : `` This fellow does n't interest me .
He 's dead .
He must be the fellow I saw go under the henhouse last night .
How did you kill him ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy laughed and picked Unc ' Billy up by the tail again .
`` He 's fooled you all right , old fellow , and you do n't know it , '' said he to Bowser , as the latter pranced on ahead to the house .
The mother of Farmer Brown 's boy was in the doorway , watching them approach .
`` What have you got there ? ''
she demanded .
`` I declare if it is n't a Possum !
Where did you kill him ?
Was he the cause of all that racket among the chickens ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy took Unc ' Billy into the kitchen and dropped him on a chair .
Mrs. Brown came over to look at him closer .
`` Poor little fellow , '' said she .
`` Poor little fellow .
It was too bad he got into mischief and had to be killed .
I do n't suppose he knew any better .
Somehow it always seems wrong to me to kill these little creatures just because they get into mischief when all the time they do n't know that they are in mischief . ''
She stroked Unc ' Billy gently .
The eyes of Farmer Brown 's boy twinkled .
He went over to a corner and pulled a straw from his mother 's broom .
Then he returned to Unc ' Billy and began to tickle Unc ' Billy 's nose .
Mrs. Brown looked puzzled .
She was puzzled .
`` What are you doing that for ? ''
she asked .
`` Just for fun , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy and kept on tickling Unc ' Billy 's nose .
Now Unc ' Billy could stand having his tail pinched , and being carried head down , and being dropped on the ground , but this was too much for him ; he wanted to sneeze .
He had got to sneeze .
He did sneeze .
He could n't help it , though it were to cost him his life .
`` Land of love ! ''
exclaimed Mrs. Brown , jumping back and clutching her skirts in both hands as if she expected Unc ' Billy would try to take refuge behind them .
`` Do you mean to say that that Possum is alive ? ''
`` Seems that way , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy as Unc ' Billy sneezed again , for that straw was still tickling his nose .
`` I should certainly say it seems that way .
The old sinner is no more dead than I am .
He 's just pretending .
He fooled you all right , Mother , but he did n't fool me .
I have n't hurt a hair of him .
You ought to know me well enough by this time to know that I would n't hurt him . ''
He looked at his mother reproachfully , and she hastened to apologize .
`` But what could I think ? ''
she demanded .
`` If he is n't a dead-looking creature , I never have seen one .
What are you going to do with him , son ? ''
`` Take him over to the Green Forest after breakfast and let him go , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy .
This is just what he did do , and Unc ' Billy wasted no time in getting home .
It was a long time before he met Jimmy Skunk again .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Lightfoot_the_Deer.txt.out
CHAPTER I PETER RABBIT MEETS LIGHTFOOT Peter Rabbit was on his way back from the pond of Paddy the Beaver deep in the Green Forest .
He had just seen Mr. and Mrs. Quack start toward the Big River for a brief visit before leaving on their long , difficult journey to the far-away Southland .
Farewells are always rather sad , and this particular farewell had left Peter with a lump in his throat , -- a queer , choky feeling .
`` If I were sure that they would return next spring , it would n't be so bad , '' he muttered .
`` It 's those terrible guns .
I know what it is to have to watch out for them .
Farmer Brown 's boy used to hunt me with one of them , but he does n't any more .
But even when he did hunt me it was n't anything like what the Ducks have to go through .
If I kept my eyes and ears open , I could tell when a hunter was coming and could hide in a hole if I wanted to .
I never had to worry about my meals .
But with the Ducks it is a thousand times worse .
They 've got to eat while making that long journey , and they can eat only where there is the right kind of food .
Hunters with terrible guns know where those places are and hide there until the Ducks come , and the Ducks have no way of knowing whether the hunters are waiting for them or not .
That is n't hunting .
It 's -- it 's -- '' `` Well , what is it ?
What are you talking to yourself about , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter looked up with a start to find the soft , beautiful eyes of Lightfoot the Deer gazing down at him over the top of a little hemlock tree .
`` It 's awful , '' declared Peter .
`` It 's worse than unfair .
It does n't give them any chance at all . ''
`` I suppose it must be so if you say so , '' replied Lightfoot , `` but you might tell me what all this awfulness is about . ''
Peter grinned .
Then he began at the beginning and told Lightfoot all about Mr. and Mrs. Quack and the many dangers they must face on their long journey to the far-away Southland and back again in the spring , all because of the heartless hunters with terrible guns .
Lightfoot listened and his great soft eyes were filled with pity for the Quack family .
`` I hope they will get through all right , '' said he , `` and I hope they will get back in the spring .
It is bad enough to be hunted by men at one time of the year , as no one knows better than I do , but to be hunted in the spring as well as in the fall is more than twice as bad .
Men are strange creatures .
I do not understand them at all .
None of the people of the Green Forest would think of doing such terrible things .
I suppose it is quite right to hunt others in order to get enough to eat , though I am thankful to say that I never have had to do that , but to hunt others just for the fun of hunting is something I can not understand at all .
And yet that is what men seem to do it for .
I guess the trouble is they never have been hunted themselves and do n't know how it feels .
Sometimes I think I 'll hunt one some day just to teach him a lesson .
What are you laughing at , Peter ? ''
`` At the idea of you hunting a man , '' replied Peter .
`` Your heart is all right , Lightfoot , but you are too timid and gentle to frighten any one .
Big as you are I would n't fear you . ''
With a single swift bound Lightfoot sprang out in front of Peter .
He stamped his sharp hoofs , lowered his handsome head until the sharp points of his antlers , which people call horns , pointed straight at Peter , lifted the hair along the back of his neck , and made a motion as if to plunge at him .
His eyes , which Peter had always thought so soft and gentle , seemed to flash fire .
`` Oh ! ''
cried Peter in a faint , frightened-sounding voice and leaped to one side before it entered his foolish little head that Lightfoot was just pretending .
Lightfoot chuckled .
`` Did you say I could n't frighten any one ? ''
he demanded .
`` I -- I did n't know you could look so terribly fierce , '' stammered Peter .
`` Those antlers look really dangerous when you point them that way .
Why -- why -- what is that hanging to them ?
It looks like bits of old fur .
Have you been tearing somebody 's coat , Lightfoot ? ''
Peter 's eyes were wide with wonder and suspicion .
CHAPTER II LIGHTFOOT 'S NEW ANTLERS Peter Rabbit was puzzled .
He stared at Lightfoot the Deer a wee bit suspiciously .
`` Have you been tearing somebody 's coat ? ''
he asked again .
He did n't like to think it of Lightfoot , whom he always had believed quite as gentle , harmless , and timid as himself .
But what else could he think ?
Lightfoot slowly shook his head .
`` No , '' said he , `` I have n't torn anybody 's coat . ''
`` Then what are those rags hanging on your antlers ? ''
demanded Peter .
Lightfoot chuckled .
`` They are what is left of the coverings of my new antlers , '' he explained .
`` What 's that ?
What do you mean by new antlers ? ''
Peter was sitting up very straight , with his eyes fixed on Lightfoot 's antlers as though he never had seen them before .
`` Just what I said , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` What do you think of them ?
I think they are the finest antlers I 've ever had .
When I get the rest of those rags off , they will be as handsome a set as ever was grown in the Green Forest . ''
Lightfoot rubbed his antlers against the trunk of a tree till some of the rags hanging to them dropped off .
Peter blinked very hard .
He was trying to understand and he could n't .
Finally he said so .
`` What kind of a story are you trying to fill me up with ? ''
he demanded indignantly .
`` Do you mean to tell me that those are not the antlers that you have had as long as I 've known you ?
How can anything hard like those antlers grow ?
And if those are new ones , where are the old ones ?
Show me the old ones , and perhaps I 'll believe that these are new ones .
The idea of trying to make me believe that antlers grow just like plants !
I 've seen Bossy the Cow all summer and I know she has got the same horns she had last summer .
New antlers indeed ! ''
`` You are quite right , Peter , quite right about Bossy the Cow .
She never has new horns , but that is n't any reason why I should n't have new antlers , is it ? ''
replied Lightfoot patiently .
`` Her horns are quite different from my antlers .
I have a new pair every year .
You have n't seen me all summer , have you , Peter ? ''
`` No , I do n't remember that I have , '' replied Peter , trying very hard to remember when he had last seen Lightfoot .
`` I know you have n't , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` I know it because I have been hiding in a place you never visit . ''
`` What have you been hiding for ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` For my new antlers to grow , '' replied Lightfoot .
`` When my new antlers are growing , I want to be away by myself .
I do n't like to be seen without them or with half grown ones .
Besides , I am very uncomfortable while the new antlers are growing and I want to be alone . ''
Lightfoot spoke as if he really meant every word he said , but still Peter could n't , he just could n't believe that those wonderful great antlers had grown out of Lightfoot 's head in a single summer .
`` Where did you leave your old ones and when did they come off ? ''
he asked , and there was doubt in the very tone of his voice .
`` They dropped off last spring , but I do n't remember just where , '' replied Lightfoot .
`` I was too glad to be rid of them to notice where they dropped .
You see they were loose and uncomfortable , and I had n't any more use for them because I knew that my new ones would be bigger and better .
I 've got one more point on each than I had last year . ''
Lightfoot began once more to rub his antlers against the tree to get off the queer rags hanging to them and to polish the points .
Peter watched in silence for a few minutes .
Then , all his suspicions returning , he said : `` But you have n't told me anything about those rags hanging to your antlers . ''
`` And you have n't believed what I have already told you , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` I do n't like telling things to people who wo n't believe me . ''
CHAPTER III LIGHTFOOT TELLS HOW HIS ANTLERS GREW It is hard to believe what seems impossible .
And yet what seems impossible to you may be a very commonplace matter to some one else .
So it does not do to say that a thing can not be possible just because you can not understand how it can be .
Peter Rabbit wanted to believe what Lightfoot the Deer had just told him , but somehow he could n't .
If he had seen those antlers growing , it would have been another matter .
But he had n't seen Lightfoot since the very last of winter , and then Lightfoot had worn just such handsome antlers as he now had .
So Peter really could n't be blamed for not being able to believe that those old ones had been lost and in their place new ones had grown in just the few months of spring and summer .
But Peter did n't blame Lightfoot in the least , because he had told Peter that he did n't like to tell things to people who would n't believe what he told them when Peter had asked him about the rags hanging to his antlers .
`` I 'm trying to believe it , '' he said , quite humbly .
`` It 's all true , '' broke in another voice .
Peter jumped and turned to find his big cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Unseen and unheard , he had stolen up and had overheard what Peter and Lightfoot had said .
`` How do you know it is true ? ''
snapped Peter a little crossly , for Jumper had startled him .
`` Because I saw Lightfoot 's old antlers after they had fallen off , and I often saw Lightfoot while his new ones were growing , '' retorted Jumper .
`` All right !
I 'll believe anything that Lightfoot tells me if you say it is true , '' declared Peter , who greatly admires his cousin , Jumper .
`` Now tell me about those rags , Lightfoot .
Please do . ''
Lightfoot could n't resist that `` please . ''
`` Those rags are what is left of a kind of covering which protected the antlers while they were growing , as I told you before , '' said he .
`` Very soon after my old ones dropped off the new ones began to grow .
They were not hard , not at all like they are now .
They were soft and very tender , and the blood ran through them just as it does through our bodies .
They were covered with a sort of skin with hairs on it like thin fur .
The ends were not sharply pointed as they now are , but were big and rounded , like knobs .
They were not like antlers at all , and they made my head hot and were very uncomfortable .
That is why I hid away .
They grew very fast , so fast that every day I could see by looking at my reflection in water that they were a little longer .
It seemed to me sometimes as if all my strength went into those new antlers .
And I had to be very careful not to hit them against anything .
In the first place it would have hurt , and in the second place it might have spoiled the shape of them .
`` When they had grown to the length you now see , they began to shrink and grow hard .
The knobs on the ends shrank until they became pointed .
As soon as they stopped growing the blood stopped flowing up in them , and as they became hard they were no longer tender .
The skin which had covered them grew dry and split , and I rubbed it off on trees and bushes .
The little rags you see are what is left , but I will soon be rid of those .
Then I shall be ready to fight if need be and will fear no one save man , and will fear him only when he has a terrible gun with him . ''
Lightfoot tossed his head proudly and rattled his wonderful antlers against the nearest tree .
`` Is n't he handsome , '' whispered Peter to Jumper the Hare ; `` and did you ever hear of anything so wonderful as the growing of those new antlers in such a short time ?
It is hard to believe , but I suppose it must be true . ''
`` It is , '' replied Jumper , `` and I tell you , Peter , I would hate to have Lightfoot try those antlers on me , even though I were big as a man .
You 've always thought of Lightfoot as timid and afraid , but you should see him when he is angry .
Few people care to face him then . ''
CHAPTER IV THE SPIRIT OF FEAR When the days grow cold and the nights are clear , There stalks abroad the spirit of fear .
Lightfoot the Deer .
It is sad but true .
Autumn is often called the sad time of the year , and it is the sad time .
But it should n't be .
Old Mother Nature never intended that it should be .
She meant it to be the glad time .
It is the time when all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows have got over the cares and worries of bringing up families and teaching their children how to look out for themselves .
It is the season when food is plentiful , and every one is fat and is , or ought to be , care free .
It is the season when Old Mother Nature intended all her little people to be happy , to have nothing to worry them for the little time before the coming of cold weather and the hard times which cold weather always brings .
But instead of this , a grim , dark figure goes stalking over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , and it is called the Spirit of Fear .
It peers into every hiding-place and wherever it finds one of the little people it sends little cold chills over him , little chills which jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun can not chase away , though he shine his brightest .
All night as well as all day the Spirit of Fear searches out the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It will not let them sleep .
It will not let them eat in peace .
It drives them to seek new hiding-places and then drives them out of those .
It keeps them ever ready to fly or run at the slightest sound .
Peter Rabbit was thinking of this as he sat at the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , looking over to the Green Forest .
The Green Forest was no longer just green ; it was of many colors , for Old Mother Nature had set Jack Frost to painting the leaves of the maple-trees and the beech-trees , and the birch-trees and the poplar-trees and the chestnut-trees , and he had done his work well .
Very , very lovely were the reds and yellows and browns against the dark green of the pines and the spruces and the hemlocks .
The Purple Hills were more softly purple than at any other season of the year .
It was all very , very beautiful .
But Peter had no thought for the beauty of it all , for the Spirit of Fear had visited even the dear Old Briar-patch , and Peter was afraid .
It was n't fear of Reddy Fox , or Redtail the Hawk , or Hooty the Owl , or Old Man Coyote .
They were forever trying to catch him , but they did not strike terror to his heart because he felt quite smart enough to keep out of their clutches .
To be sure , they gave him sudden frights sometimes , when they happened to surprise him , but these frights lasted only until he reached the nearest bramble-tangle or hollow log where they could not get at him .
But the fear that chilled his heart now never left him even for a moment .
And Peter knew that this same fear was clutching at the hearts of Bob White , hiding in the brown stubble ; of Mrs. Grouse , squatting in the thickest bramble-tangle in the Green Forest ; of Uncle Billy Possum and Bobby Coon in their hollow trees ; of Jerry Muskrat in the Smiling Pool ; of Happy Jack Squirrel , hiding in the tree tops ; of Lightfoot the Deer , lying in the closest thicket he could find .
It was even clutching at the hearts of Granny and Reddy Fox and of great , big Buster Bear .
It seemed to Peter that no one was so big or so small that this terrible Spirit of Fear had not searched him out .
Far in the distance sounded a sudden bang .
Peter jumped and shivered .
He knew that every one else who had heard that bang had jumped and shivered just as he had .
It was the season of hunters with terrible guns .
It was man who had sent this terrible Spirit of Fear to chill the hearts of the little meadow and forest people at this very time when Old Mother Nature had made all things so beautiful and had intended that they should be happiest and most free from care and worry .
It was man who had made the autumn a sad time instead of a glad time , the very saddest time of all the year , when Old Mother Nature had done her best to make it the most beautiful .
`` I do n't understand these men creatures , '' said Peter to little Mrs. Peter , as they stared fearfully out from the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` They seem to find pleasure , actually find pleasure , in trying to kill us .
I do n't understand them at all .
They have n't any hearts .
That must be the reason ; they have n't any hearts . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` I do n't understand these men creatures , '' said Peter to little Mrs. Peter . -RSB-
CHAPTER V SAMMY JAY BRINGS LIGHTFOOT WORD Sammy Jay is one of those who believe in the wisdom of the old saying , `` Early to bed and early to rise . ''
Sammy needs no alarm clock to get up early in the morning .
He is awake as soon as it is light enough to see and wastes no time wishing he could sleep a little longer .
His stomach would n't let him if he wanted to .
Sammy always wakes up hungry .
In this he is no different from all his feathered neighbors .
So the minute Sammy gets his eyes open he makes his toilet , for Sammy is very neat , and starts out to hunt for his breakfast .
Long ago Sammy discovered that there is no safer time of day to visit the dooryards of those two-legged creatures called men than very early in the morning .
On this particular morning he had planned to fly over to Farmer Brown 's dooryard , but at the last minute he changed his mind .
Instead , he flew over to the dooryard of another farm .
It was so very early in the morning that Sammy did n't expect to find anybody stirring , so you can guess how surprised he was when , just as he came in sight of that dooryard , he saw the door of the house open and a man step out .
Sammy stopped on the top of the nearest tree .
`` Now what is that man doing up as early as this ? ''
muttered Sammy .
Then he caught sight of something under the man 's arm .
He did n't have to look twice to know what it was .
It was a gun !
Yes , sir , it was a gun , a terrible gun .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Sammy , and quite forgot that his stomach was empty .
`` Now who can that fellow be after so early in the morning ?
I wonder if he is going to the dear Old Briar-patch to look for Peter Rabbit , or if he is going to the Old Pasture in search of Reddy Fox , or if it is Mr. and Mrs. Grouse he hopes to kill .
I think I 'll sit right here and watch . ''
So Sammy sat in the top of the tree and watched the hunter with the terrible gun .
He saw him head straight for the Green Forest .
`` It 's Mr. and Mrs. Grouse after all , I guess , '' thought Sammy .
`` If I knew just where they were I 'd go over and warn them . ''
But Sammy did n't know just where they were and he knew that it might take him a long time to find them , so he once more began to think of breakfast and then , right then , another thought popped into his head .
He thought of Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy watched the hunter enter the Green Forest , then he silently followed him .
From the way the hunter moved , Sammy decided that he was n't thinking of Mr. and Mrs. Grouse .
`` It 's Lightfoot the Deer , sure as I live , '' muttered Sammy .
`` He ought to be warned .
He certainly ought to be warned .
I know right where he is .
I believe I 'll warn him myself . ''
Sammy found Lightfoot right where he had expected to .
`` He 's coming ! ''
cried Sammy .
`` A hunter with a terrible gun is coming ! ''
CHAPTER VI A GAME OF HIDE AND SEEK There was a game of hide and seek that Danny Meadow Mouse once played with Buster Bear .
It was a very dreadful game for Danny .
But hard as it was for Danny , it did n't begin to be as hard as the game Lightfoot the Deer was playing with the hunter in the Green Forest .
In the case of Buster Bear and Danny , the latter had simply to keep out of reach of Buster .
As long as Buster did n't get his great paws on Danny , the latter was safe .
Then , too , Danny is a very small person .
He is so small that he can hide under two or three leaves .
Wherever he is , he is pretty sure to find a hiding-place of some sort .
His small size gives him advantages in a game of hide and seek .
It certainly does .
But Lightfoot the Deer is big .
He is one of the largest of the people who live in the Green Forest .
Being so big , it is not easy to hide .
Moreover , a hunter with a terrible gun does not have to get close in order to kill .
Lightfoot knew all this as he waited for the coming of the hunter of whom Sammy Jay had warned him .
He had learned many lessons in the hunting season of the year before and he remembered every one of them .
He knew that to forget even one of them might cost him his life .
So , standing motionless behind a tangle of fallen trees , Lightfoot listened and watched .
Presently over in the distance he heard Sammy Jay screaming , `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
A little sigh of relief escaped Lightfoot .
He knew that that screaming of Sammy Jay 's was a warning to tell him where the hunter was .
Knowing just where the hunter was made it easier for Lightfoot to know what to do .
A Merry Little Breeze came stealing through the Green Forest .
It came from behind Lightfoot and danced on towards the hunter with the terrible gun .
Instantly Lightfoot began to steal softly away through the Green Forest .
He took the greatest care to make no sound .
He went in a half-circle , stopping every few steps to listen and test the air with his wonderful nose .
Can you guess what Lightfoot was trying to do ?
He was trying to get behind the hunter so that the Merry Little Breezes would bring to him the dreaded man-scent .
So long as Lightfoot could get that scent , he would know where the hunter was , though he could neither see nor hear him .
If he had remained where Sammy Jay had found him , the hunter might have come within shooting distance before Lightfoot could have located him .
So the hunter with the terrible gun walked noiselessly through the Green Forest , stepping with the greatest care to avoid snapping a stick underfoot , searching with keen eye every thicket and likely hiding-place for a glimpse of Lightfoot , and studying the ground for traces to show that Lightfoot had been there .
CHAPTER VII THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES HELP LIGHTFOOT Could you have seen the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer that morning on which the hunting season opened you might have thought that Lightfoot was hunting the hunter instead of the hunter hunting Lightfoot .
You see , Lightfoot was behind the hunter instead of in front of him .
He was following the hunter , so as to keep track of him .
As long as he knew just where the hunter was , he felt reasonably safe .
The Merry Little Breezes are Lightfoot 's best friends .
They always bring to him all the different scents they find as they wander through the Green Forest .
And Lightfoot 's delicate nose is so wonderful that he can take these scents , even though they be very faint , and tell just who or what has made them .
So , though he makes the best possible use of his big ears and his beautiful eyes , he trusts more to his nose to warn him of danger .
For this reason , during the hunting season when he moves about , he moves in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes may be blowing .
He knows that they will bring to him warning of any danger which may lie in that direction .
Now the hunter with the terrible gun who was looking for Lightfoot knew all this , for he was wise in the ways of Lightfoot and of the other little people of the Green Forest .
When he had entered the Green Forest that morning he had first of all made sure of the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were coming .
Then he had begun to hunt in that direction , knowing that thus his scent would be carried behind him .
It is more than likely that he would have reached the hiding-place of Lightfoot the Deer before the latter would have known that he was in the Green Forest , had it not been for Sammy Jay 's warning .
When he reached the tangle of fallen trees behind which Lightfoot had been hiding , he worked around it slowly and with the greatest care , holding his terrible gun ready to use instantly should Lightfoot leap out .
Presently he found Lightfoot 's footprints in the soft ground and studying them he knew that Lightfoot had known of his coming .
`` It was that confounded Jay , '' muttered the hunter .
`` Lightfoot heard him and knew what it meant .
I know what he has done ; he has circled round so as to get behind me and get my scent .
It is a clever trick , a very clever trick , but two can play at that game .
I 'll just try that little trick myself . ''
So the hunter in his turn made a wide circle back , and presently there was none of the dreaded man-smell among the scents which the Merry Little Breezes brought to Lightfoot .
Lightfoot had lost track of the hunter .
CHAPTER VIII WIT AGAINST WIT It was a dreadful game the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer were playing in the Green Forest .
It was a matching of wit against wit , the hunter seeking to take Lightfoot 's life , and Lightfoot seeking to save it .
The experience of other years had taught Lightfoot much of the ways of hunters and not one of the things he had learned about them was forgotten .
But the hunter in his turn knew much of the ways of Deer .
So it was that each was trying his best to outguess the other .
When the hunter found the hiding-place Lightfoot had left at the warning of Sammy Jay he followed Lightfoot 's tracks for a short distance .
It was slow work , and only one whose eyes had been trained to notice little things could have done it .
You see , there was no snow , and only now and then , when he had stepped on a bit of soft ground , had Lightfoot left a footprint .
But there were other signs which the hunter knew how to read , -- a freshly upturned leaf here , and here , a bit of moss lightly crushed .
These things told the hunter which way Lightfoot had gone .
Slowly , patiently , watchfully , the hunter followed .
After a while he stopped with a satisfied grin .
`` I thought as much , '' he muttered .
`` He heard that pesky Jay and circled around so as to get my scent .
I 'll just cut across to my old trail and unless I am greatly mistaken , I 'll find his tracks there . ''
So , swiftly but silently , the hunter cut across to his old trail , and in a few moments he found just what he expected , -- one of Lightfoot 's footprints .
Once more he grinned .
`` Well , old fellow , I 've out-guessed you this time , '' said he to himself .
`` I am behind you and the wind is from you to me , so that you can not get my scent .
I would n't be a bit surprised if you 're back right where you started from , behind that old windfall . ''
He at once began to move forward silently and cautiously , with eyes and ears alert and his terrible gun ready for instant use .
Now when Lightfoot , following behind the hunter , had lost the scent of the latter , he guessed right away that the latter had found his tracks and had started to follow them .
Lightfoot stood still and listened with all his might for some little sound to tell him where the hunter was .
But there was no sound and after a little Lightfoot began to move on .
He did n't dare remain still , lest the hunter should creep up within shooting distance .
There was only one direction in which it was safe for Lightfoot to move , and that was the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing .
So long as they brought him none of the dreaded man-smell , he knew that he was safe .
The hunter might be behind him -- probably he was -- but ahead of him , so long as the Merry Little Breezes were blowing in his face and brought no man-smell , was safety .
CHAPTER IX LIGHTFOOT BECOMES UNCERTAIN Lightfoot the Deer traveled on through the Green Forest , straight ahead in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing .
Every few steps he would raise his delicate nose and test all the scents that the Merry Little Breezes were bringing .
So long as he kept the Merry Little Breezes blowing in his face , he could be sure whether or not there was danger ahead of him .
Lightfoot uses his nose very much as you and I use our eyes .
It tells him the things he wants to know .
He knew that Reddy Fox had been along ahead of him , although he did n't get so much as a glimpse of Reddy 's red coat .
Once he caught just the faintest of scents which caused him to stop abruptly and test the air more carefully than ever .
It was the scent of Buster Bear .
But it was so very faint that Lightfoot knew Buster was not near , so he went ahead again , but even more carefully than before .
After a little he could n't smell Buster at all , so he knew then that Buster had merely passed that way when he was going to some other part of the Green Forest .
Lightfoot knew that he had nothing to fear in that direction so long as the Merry Little Breezes brought him none of the dreaded man-scent , and he knew that he could trust the Merry Little Breezes to bring him that scent if there should be a man anywhere in front of him .
You know the Merry Little Breezes are Lightfoot 's best friends .
But Lightfoot did n't want to keep going in that direction all day .
It would take him far away from that part of the Green Forest with which he was familiar and which he called home .
It might in time take him out of the Green Forest and that would n't do at all .
So after a while Lightfoot became uncertain .
He did n't know just what to do .
You see , he could n't tell whether or not that hunter with the terrible gun was still following him .
Every once in a while he would stop in a thicket of young trees or behind a tangle of fallen trees uprooted by the wind .
There he would stand , facing the direction from which he had come , and watch and listen for some sign that the hunter was still following .
But after a few minutes of this he would grow uneasy and then bound away in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing , so as to be sure of not running into danger .
`` If only I could know if that hunter is still following , I would know better what to do , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` I 've got to find out . ''
CHAPTER X LIGHTFOOT 'S CLEVER TRICK Lightfoot the Deer is smart .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot the Deer is smart .
He has to be , especially in the hunting season , to save his life .
If he were not smart he would have been killed long ago .
He never makes the foolish mistake of thinking that other people are not smart .
He knew that the hunter who had started out to follow him early that morning was not one to be easily discouraged or to be fooled by simple tricks .
He had a very great respect for the smartness of that hunter .
He knew that he could n't afford to be careless for one little minute .
The certainty of danger is sometimes easier to bear than the uncertainty of not knowing whether or not there really is any danger .
Lightfoot felt that if he could know just where the hunter was , he himself would know better what to do .
The hunter might have become discouraged and given up following him .
In that case he could rest and stop worrying .
It would be better to know that he was being followed than not to know .
But how was he to find out ?
Lightfoot kept turning this over and over in his mind as he traveled through the Green Forest .
Then an idea came to him .
`` I know what I 'll do .
I know just what I 'll do , '' said Lightfoot to himself .
`` I 'll find out whether or not that hunter is still following me and I 'll get a little rest .
Goodness knows , I need a rest . ''
Lightfoot bounded away swiftly and ran for some distance , then he turned and quickly , but very , very quietly , returned in the direction from which he had just come but a little to one side of his old trail .
After a while he saw what he was looking for , a pile of branches which woodchoppers had left when they had trimmed the trees they had cut down .
This was near the top of a little hill .
Lightfoot went up the hill and stopped behind the pile of brush .
For a few moments he stood there perfectly still , looking and listening .
Then , with a little sigh of relief , he lay down , where , without being in any danger of being seen himself , he could watch his old trail through the hollow at the bottom of the hill .
If the hunter were still following him , he would pass through that hollow in plain sight .
For a long time Lightfoot rested comfortably behind the pile of brush .
There was not a suspicious movement or a suspicious sound to show that danger was abroad in the Green Forest .
He saw Mr. and Mrs. Grouse fly down across the hollow and disappear among the trees on the other side .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum looking over a hollow tree and guessed that Unc ' Billy was getting ready to go into winter quarters .
He saw Jumper the Hare squat down under a low-hanging branch of a hemlock-tree and prepare to take a nap .
He heard Drummer the Woodpecker at work drilling after worms in a tree not far away .
Little by little Lightfoot grew easy in his mind .
It must be that that hunter had become discouraged and was no longer following him .
CHAPTER XI THE HUNTED WATCHES THE HUNTER It was so quiet and peaceful and altogether lovely there in the Green Forest , where Lightfoot the Deer lay resting behind a pile of brush near the top of a little hill , that it did n't seem possible such a thing as sudden death could be anywhere near .
It did n't seem possible that there could be any need for watchfulness .
But Lightfoot long ago had learned that often danger is nearest when it seems least to be expected .
So , though he would have liked very much to have taken a nap , Lightfoot was too wise to do anything so foolish .
He kept his beautiful , great , soft eyes fixed in the direction from which the hunter with the terrible gun would come if he were still following that trail .
He kept his great ears gently moving to catch every little sound .
Lightfoot had about decided that the hunter had given up hunting for that day , but he did n't let this keep him from being any the less watchful .
It was better to be overwatchful than the least bit careless .
By and by , Lightfoot 's keen ears caught the sound of the snapping of a little stick in the distance .
It was so faint a sound that you or I would have missed it altogether .
But Lightfoot heard it and instantly he was doubly alert , watching in the direction from which that faint sound had come .
After what seemed a long , long time he saw something moving , and a moment later a man came into view .
It was the hunter and across one arm he carried the terrible gun .
Lightfoot knew now that this hunter had patience and perseverance and had not yet given up hope of getting near enough to shoot Lightfoot .
He moved forward slowly , setting each foot down with the greatest care , so as not to snap a stick or rustle the leaves .
He was watching sharply ahead , ready to shoot should he catch a glimpse of Lightfoot within range .
Right along through the hollow at the foot of the little hill below Lightfoot the hunter passed .
He was no longer studying the ground for Lightfoot 's tracks , because the ground was so hard and dry down there that Lightfoot had left no tracks .
He was simply hunting in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing because he knew that Lightfoot had gone in that direction , and he also knew that if Lightfoot were still ahead of him , his scent could not be carried to Lightfoot .
He was doing what is called `` hunting up-wind . ''
Lightfoot kept perfectly still and watched the hunter disappear among the trees .
Then he silently got to his feet , shook himself lightly , and noiselessly stole away over the hilltop towards another part of the Green Forest .
He felt sure that that hunter would not find him again that day .
CHAPTER XII LIGHTFOOT VISITS PADDY THE BEAVER Deep in the Green Forest is the pond where lives Paddy the Beaver .
It is Paddy 's own pond , for he made it himself .
He made it by building a dam across the Laughing Brook .
When Lightfoot bounded away through the Green Forest , after watching the hunter pass through the hollow below him , he remembered Paddy 's pond .
`` That 's where I 'll go , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` It is such a lonesome part of the Green Forest that I do not believe that hunter will come there .
I 'll just run over and make Paddy a friendly call . ''
So Lightfoot bounded along deeper and deeper into the Green Forest .
Presently through the trees he caught the gleam of water .
It was Paddy 's pond .
Lightfoot approached it cautiously .
He felt sure he was rid of the hunter who had followed him so far that day , but he knew that there might be other hunters in the Green Forest .
He knew that he could n't afford to be careless for even one little minute .
Lightfoot had lived long enough to know that most of the sad things and dreadful things that happen in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows are due to carelessness .
No one who is hunted , be he big or little , can afford ever to be careless .
Now Lightfoot had known of hunters hiding near water , hoping to shoot him when he came to drink .
That always seemed to Lightfoot a dreadful thing , an unfair thing .
But hunters had done it before and they might do it again .
So Lightfoot was careful to approach Paddy 's pond up-wind .
That is , he approached the side of the pond from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing toward him , and all the time he kept his nose working .
He knew that if any hunters were hidden there , the Merry Little Breezes would bring him their scent and thus warn him .
He had almost reached the edge of Paddy 's pond when from the farther shore there came a sudden crash .
It startled Lightfoot terribly for just an instant .
Then he guessed what it meant .
That crash was the falling of a tree .
There was n't enough wind to blow over even the most shaky dead tree .
There had been no sound of axes , so he knew it could not have been chopped down by men .
It must be that Paddy the Beaver had cut it , and if Paddy had been working in daylight , it was certain that no one had been around that pond for a long time .
So Lightfoot hurried forward eagerly , cautiously .
When he reached the bank he looked across towards where the sound of that falling tree had come from ; a branch of a tree was moving along in the water and half hidden by it was a brown head .
It was Paddy the Beaver taking the branch to his food pile .
CHAPTER XIII LIGHTFOOT AND PADDY BECOME PARTNERS The instant Lightfoot saw Paddy the Beaver he knew that for the time being , at least , there was no danger .
He knew that Paddy is one of the shyest of all the little people of the Green Forest and that when he is found working in the daytime it means that he has been undisturbed for a long time ; otherwise he would work only at night .
Paddy saw Lightfoot almost as soon as he stepped out on the bank .
He kept right on swimming with the branch of a poplar-tree until he reached his food pile , which , you know , is in the water .
There he forced the branch down until it was held by other branches already sunken in the pond .
This done , he swam over to where Lightfoot was watching .
`` Hello , Lightfoot ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` You are looking handsomer than ever .
How are you feeling these fine autumn days ? ''
`` Anxious , '' replied Lightfoot .
`` I am feeling terribly anxious .
Do you know what day this is ? ''
`` No , '' replied Paddy , `` I do n't know what day it is , and I do n't particularly care .
It is enough for me that it is one of the finest days we 've had for a long time . ''
`` I wish I could feel that way , '' said Lightfoot wistfully .
`` I wish I could feel that way , Paddy , but I ca n't .
No , Sir , I ca n't .
You see , this is the first of the most dreadful days in all the year for me .
The hunters started looking for me before Mr. Sun was really out of bed .
At least one hunter did , and I do n't doubt there are others .
I fooled that one , but from now to the end of the hunting season there will not be a single moment of daylight when I will feel absolutely safe . ''
Paddy crept out on the bank and chewed a little twig of poplar thoughtfully .
Paddy says he can always think better if he is chewing something .
`` That 's bad news , Lightfoot .
I 'm sorry to hear it .
I certainly am sorry to hear it , '' said Paddy .
`` Why anybody wants to hunt such a handsome fellow as you are , I can not understand .
My , but that 's a beautiful set of antlers you have ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` My , but that 's a beautiful set of antlers you have ! '' -RSB-
`` They are the best I 've ever had ; but do you know , Paddy , I suspect that they may be one of the reasons I am hunted so , '' replied Lightfoot a little sadly .
`` Good looks are not always to be desired .
Have you seen any hunters around here lately ? ''
Paddy shook his head .
`` Not a single hunter , '' he replied .
`` I tell you what it is , Lightfoot , let 's be partners for a while .
You stay right around my pond .
If I see or hear or smell anything suspicious , I 'll warn you .
You do the same for me .
Two sets of eyes , ears and noses are better than one .
What do you say , Lightfoot ? ''
`` I 'll do it , '' replied Lightfoot .
CHAPTER XIV HOW PADDY WARNED LIGHTFOOT It was a queer partnership , that partnership between Lightfoot and Paddy , but it was a good partnership .
They had been the best of friends for a long time .
Paddy had always been glad to have Lightfoot visit his pond .
To tell the truth , he was rather fond of handsome Lightfoot .
You know Paddy is himself not at all handsome .
On land he is a rather clumsy-looking fellow and really homely .
So he admired Lightfoot greatly .
That is one reason why he proposed that they be partners .
Lightfoot himself thought the idea a splendid one .
He spent that night browsing not far from Paddy 's pond .
With the coming of daylight he lay down in a thicket of young hemlock-trees near the upper end of the pond .
It was a quiet , peaceful day .
It was so quiet and peaceful and beautiful it was hard to believe that hunters with terrible guns were searching the Green Forest for beautiful Lightfoot .
But they were , and Lightfoot knew that sooner or later one of them would be sure to visit Paddy 's pond .
So , though he rested and took short naps all through that beautiful day , he was anxious .
He could n't help but be .
The next morning found Lightfoot back in the same place .
But this morning he took no naps .
He rested , but all the time he was watchful and alert .
A feeling of uneasiness possessed him .
He felt in his bones that danger in the shape of a hunter with a terrible gun was not far distant .
But the hours slipped away , and little by little he grew less uneasy .
He began to hope that that day would prove as peaceful as the previous day had been .
Then suddenly there was a sharp report from the farther end of Paddy 's pond .
It was almost like a pistol shot .
However , it was n't a pistol shot .
It was n't a shot at all .
It was the slap of Paddy 's broad tail on the surface of the water .
Instantly Lightfoot was on his feet .
He knew just what that meant .
He knew that Paddy had seen or heard or smelled a hunter .
It was even so .
Paddy had heard a dry stick snap .
It was a very tiny snap , but it was enough to warn Paddy .
With only his head above water he had watched in the direction from which that sound had come .
Presently , stealing quietly along towards the pond , a hunter had come in view .
Instantly , Paddy had brought his broad tail down on the water with all his force .
He knew that Lightfoot would know that that meant danger .
Then Paddy had dived , and swimming under water , had sought the safety of his house .
He had done his part , and there was nothing more he could do .
CHAPTER XV THE THREE WATCHERS When Paddy the Beaver slapped the water with his broad tail , making a noise like a pistol shot , Lightfoot understood that this was meant as a warning of danger .
He was on his feet instantly , with eyes , ears , and nose seeking the cause of Paddy 's warning .
After a moment or two he stole softly up to the top of a little ridge some distance back from Paddy 's pond , but from the top of which he could see the whole of the pond .
There he hid among some close-growing young hemlock-trees .
It was n't long before he saw a hunter with a terrible gun come down to the shore of the pond .
Now the hunter had heard Paddy slap the water with his broad tail .
Of course .
There would have been something very wrong with his ears had he failed to hear it .
`` Confound that Beaver ! ''
muttered the hunter crossly .
`` If there was a Deer anywhere around this pond , he probably is on his way now .
I 'll have a look around and see if there are any signs . ''
So the hunter went on to the edge of Paddy 's pond and then began to walk around it , studying the ground as he walked .
Presently he found the footprints of Lightfoot in the mud where Light foot had gone down to the pond to drink .
`` I thought as much , '' muttered the hunter .
`` Those tracks were made last night .
That Deer probably was lying down somewhere near here , and I might have had a shot but for that pesky Beaver .
I 'll just look the land over , and then I think I 'll wait here awhile .
If that Deer is n't too badly scared , he may come back . ''
So the hunter went quite around the pond , looking into all likely hiding-places .
He found where Lightfoot had been lying , and he knew that in all probability Lightfoot had been there when Paddy gave the danger signal .
`` It 's of no use for me to try to follow him , '' thought the hunter .
`` It is too dry for me to track him .
He may not be so badly scared , after all .
I 'll just find a good place and wait . ''
So the hunter found an old log behind some small trees and there sat down .
He could see all around Paddy 's pond .
He sat perfectly still .
He was a clever hunter and he knew that so long as he did not move he was not likely to be noticed by any sharp eyes that might come that way .
What he did n't know was that Lightfoot had been watching him all the time and was even then standing where he could see him .
And another thing he did n't know was that Paddy the Beaver had come out of his house and , swimming under water , had reached a hiding-place on the opposite shore from which he too had seen the hunter sit down on the log .
So the hunter watched for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy watched the hunter .
CHAPTER XVI VISITORS TO PADDY 'S POND That hunter was a man of patience .
Also he was a man who understood the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
He knew that if he would not be seen he must not move .
So he did n't move .
He kept as motionless as if he were a part of the very log on which he was sitting .
For some time there was no sign of any living thing .
Then , from over the tree tops in the direction of the Big River , came the whistle of swift wings , and Mr. and Mrs. Quack alighted with a splash in the pond .
For a few moments they sat on the water , a picture of watchful suspicion .
They were looking and listening to make sure that no danger was near .
Satisfied at last , they began to clean their feathers .
It was plain that they felt safe .
Paddy the Beaver was tempted to warn them that they were not as safe as they thought , but as long as the hunter did not move Paddy decided to wait .
Now the hunter was sorely tempted to shoot these Ducks , but he knew that if he did he would have no chance that day to get Lightfoot the Deer , and it was Lightfoot he wanted .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam about within easy range of that terrible gun without once suspecting that danger was anywhere near .
By and by the hunter 's keen eyes caught a movement at one end of Paddy 's dam .
An instant later Bobby Coon appeared .
It was clear that Bobby was quite unsuspicious .
He carried something , but just what the hunter could not make out .
He took it down to the edge of the water and there carefully washed it .
Then he climbed up on Paddy 's dam and began to eat .
You know Bobby Coon is very particular about his food .
Whenever there is water near , Bobby washes his food before eating .
Once more the hunter was tempted , but did not yield to the temptation , which was a very good thing for Bobby Coon .
All this Lightfoot saw as he stood among the little hemlock-trees at the top of the ridge behind the hunter .
He saw and he understood .
`` It is because he wants to kill me that he does n't shoot at Mr. and Mrs. Quack or Bobby Coon , '' thought Lightfoot a little bitterly .
`` What have I ever done that he should be so anxious to kill me ? ''
Still the hunter sat without moving .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack contentedly hunted for food in the mud at the bottom of Paddy 's pond .
Bobby Coon finished his meal , crossed the dam and disappeared in the Green Forest .
He had gone off to take a nap somewhere .
Time slipped away .
The hunter continued to watch patiently for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy the Beaver watched the hunter .
Finally , another visitor appeared at the upper end of the pond -- a visitor in a wonderful coat of red .
It was Reddy Fox .
CHAPTER XVII SAMMY JAY ARRIVES When Reddy Fox arrived at the pond of Paddy the Beaver , the hunter who was hiding there saw him instantly .
So did Lightfoot .
But no one else did .
He approached in that cautious , careful way that he always uses when he is hunting .
The instant he reached a place where he could see all over Paddy 's pond , he stopped as suddenly as if he had been turned to stone .
He stopped with one foot lifted in the act of taking a step .
He had seen Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
Now you know there is nothing Reddy Fox likes better for a dinner than a Duck .
The instant he saw Mr. and Mrs. Quack , a gleam of longing crept into his eyes and his mouth began to water .
He stood motionless until both Mr. and Mrs. Quack had their heads under water as they searched for food in the mud in the bottom of the pond .
Then like a red flash he bounded out of sight behind the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Presently the hunter saw Reddy 's black nose at the end of the dam as Reddy peeped around it to watch Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
The latter were slowly moving along in that direction as they fed .
Reddy was quick to see this .
If he remained right where he was , and Mr. and Mrs. Quack kept on feeding in that direction , the chances were that he would have a dinner of fat Duck .
All he need do was to be patient and wait .
So , with his eyes fixed fast on Mr. and Mrs. Quack , Reddy Fox crouched behind Paddy 's dam and waited .
Watching Reddy and the Ducks , the hunter almost forgot Lightfoot the Deer .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack were getting very near to where Reddy was waiting for them .
The hunter was tempted to get up and frighten those Ducks .
He did n't want Reddy Fox to have them , because he hoped some day to get them himself .
`` I suppose , '' thought he , `` I was foolish not to shoot them when I had the chance .
They are too far away now , and it looks very much as if that red rascal will get one of them .
I believe I 'll spoil that red scamp 's plans by frightening them away .
I do n't believe that Deer will be back here to-day anyway , so I may as well save those Ducks . ''
But the hunter did nothing of the kind .
You see , just as he was getting ready to step out from his hiding-place , Sammy Jay arrived .
He perched in a tree close to the end of Paddy 's dam and at once he spied Reddy Fox .
It did n't take him a second to discover what Reddy was hiding there for .
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
screamed Sammy , and then looked down at Reddy with a mischievous look in his sharp eyes .
There is nothing Sammy Jay delights in more than in upsetting the plans of Reddy Fox .
At the sound of Sammy 's voice , Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam hurriedly towards the middle of the pond .
They knew exactly what that warning meant .
Reddy Fox looked up at Sammy Jay and snarled angrily .
Then , knowing it was useless to hide longer , he bounded away through the Green Forest to hunt elsewhere .
CHAPTER XVIII THE HUNTER LOSES HIS TEMPER The hunter , hidden near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , chuckled silently .
That is to say , he laughed without making any sound .
The hunter thought the warning of Mr. and Mrs. Quack by Sammy Jay was a great joke on Reddy .
To tell the truth , he was very much pleased .
As you know , he wanted those Ducks himself .
He suspected that they would stay in that little pond for some days , and he planned to return there and shoot them after he had got Lightfoot the Deer .
He wanted to get Lightfoot first , and he knew that to shoot at anything else might spoil his chance of getting a shot at Lightfoot .
`` Sammy Jay did me a good turn , '' thought the hunter , `` although he does n't know it .
Reddy Fox certainly would have caught one of those Ducks had Sammy not come along just when he did .
It would have been a shame to have had one of them caught by that Fox .
I mean to get one , and I hope both of them , myself . ''
Now when you come to think of it , it would have been a far greater shame for the hunter to have killed Mr. and Mrs. Quack than for Reddy Fox to have done so .
Reddy was hunting them because he was hungry .
The hunter would have shot them for sport .
He did n't need them .
He had plenty of other food .
Reddy Fox does n't kill just for the pleasure of killing .
So the hunter continued to sit in his hiding-place with very friendly feelings for Sammy Jay .
Sammy watched Reddy Fox disappear and then flew over to that side of the pond where the hunter was .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack called their thanks to Sammy , to which he replied , that he had done no more for them than he would do for anybody , or than they would have done for him .
For some time Sammy sat quietly in the top of the tree , but all the time his sharp eyes were very busy .
By and by he spied the hunter sitting on the log .
At first he could n't make out just what it was he was looking at .
It did n't move , but nevertheless Sammy was suspicious .
Presently he flew over to a tree where he could see better .
Right away he spied the terrible gun , and he knew just what that was .
Once more he began to yell , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
at the top of his lungs .
It was then that the hunter lost his temper .
He knew that now he had been discovered by Sammy Jay , and it was useless to remain there longer .
He was angry clear through .
CHAPTER XIX SAMMY JAY IS MODEST As soon as the angry hunter with the terrible gun had disappeared among the trees of the Green Forest , and Lightfoot was sure that he had gone for good , Lightfoot came out from his hiding-place on top of the ridge and walked down to the pond of Paddy the Beaver for a drink .
He knew that it was quite safe to do so , for Sammy Jay had followed the hunter , all the time screaming , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Every one within hearing could tell just where that hunter was by Sammy 's voice .
It kept growing fainter and fainter , and by that Lightfoot knew that the hunter was getting farther and farther away .
Paddy the Beaver swam out from his hiding-place and climbed out on the bank near Lightfoot .
There was a twinkle in his eyes .
`` That blue-coated mischief-maker is n't such a bad fellow at heart , after all , is he ? ''
said he .
Lightfoot lifted his beautiful head and set his ears forward to catch the sound of Sammy 's voice in the distance .
`` Sammy Jay may be a mischief-maker , as some people say , '' said he , `` but you can always count on him to prove a true friend in time of danger .
He brought me warning of the coming of the hunter the other morning .
You saw him save Mr. and Mrs. Quack a little while ago , and then he actually drove that hunter away .
I suppose Sammy Jay has saved more lives than any one I know of .
I wish he would come back here and let me thank him . ''
Some time later Sammy Jay did come back .
`` Well , '' said he , as he smoothed his feathers , `` I chased that fellow clear to the edge of the Green Forest , so I guess there will be nothing more to fear from him to-day .
I 'm glad to see he has n't got you yet , Lightfoot .
I 've been a bit worried about you . ''
`` Sammy , '' said Lightfoot , `` you are one of the best friends I have .
I do n't know how I can ever thank you for what you have done for me . ''
`` Do n't try , '' replied Sammy shortly .
`` I have n't done anything but what anybody else would have done .
Old Mother Nature gave me a pair of good eyes and a strong voice .
I simply make the best use of them I can .
Just to see a hunter with a terrible gun makes me angry clear through .
I 'd rather spoil his hunting than eat . ''
`` You want to watch out , Sammy .
One of these days a hunter will lose his temper and shoot you , just to get even with you , '' warned Paddy the Beaver .
`` Do n't worry about me , '' replied Sammy `` I know just how far those terrible guns can shoot , and I do n't take any chances .
By the way , Lightfoot , the Green Forest is full of hunters looking for you .
I 've seen a lot of them , and I know they are looking for you because they do not shoot at anybody else even when they have a chance . ''
CHAPTER XX LIGHTFOOT HEARS A DREADFUL SOUND Day after day , Lightfoot the Deer played hide and seek for his life with the hunters who were seeking to kill him .
He saw them many times , though not one of them saw him .
More than once a hunter passed close to Lightfoot 's hiding-place without once suspecting it .
But poor Lightfoot was feeling the strain .
He was growing thin , and he was so nervous that the falling of a dead leaf from a tree would startle him .
There is nothing quite so terrible as being continually hunted .
It was getting so that Lightfoot half expected a hunter to step out from behind every tree .
Only when the Black Shadows wrapped the Green Forest in darkness did he know a moment of peace .
And those hours of safety were filled with dread of what the next day might bring .
Early one morning a terrible sound rang through the Green Forest and brought Lightfoot to his feet with a startled jump .
It was the baying of hounds following a trail .
At first it did not sound so terrible .
Lightfoot had often heard it before .
Many times he had listened to the baying of Bowser the Hound , as he followed Reddy Fox .
It had not sounded so terrible then because it meant no danger to Lightfoot .
At first , as he listened early that morning , he took it for granted that those hounds were after Reddy , and so , though startled , he was not worried .
But suddenly a dreadful suspicion came to him and he grew more and more anxious as he listened .
In a few minutes there was no longer any doubt in his mind .
Those hounds were following his trail .
It was then that the sound of that baying became terrible .
He must run for his life !
Those hounds would give him no rest .
And he knew that in running from them , he would no longer be able to watch so closely for the hunters with terrible guns .
He would no longer be able to hide in thickets .
At any time he might be driven right past one of those hunters .
Lightfoot bounded away with such leaps as only Lightfoot can make .
In a little while the voices of the hounds grew fainter .
Lightfoot stopped to get his breath and stood trembling as he listened .
The baying of the hounds again grew louder and louder .
Those wonderful noses of theirs were following his trail without the least difficulty .
In a panic of fear , Lightfoot bounded away again .
As he crossed an old road , the Green Forest rang with the roar of a terrible gun .
Something tore a strip of bark from the trunk of a tree just above Lightfoot 's back .
It was a bullet and it had just missed Lightfoot .
It added to his terror and this in turn added to his speed .
So Lightfoot ran and ran , and behind him the voices of the hounds continued to ring through the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXI HOW LIGHTFOOT GOT RID OF THE HOUNDS Poor Lightfoot !
It seemed to him that there were no such things as justice and fair play .
Had it been just one hunter at a time against whom he had to match his wits it would not have been so bad .
But there were many hunters with terrible guns looking for him , and in dodging one he was likely at any time to meet another .
This in itself seemed terribly unfair and unjust .
But now , added to this was the greater unfairness of being trailed by hounds .
Do you wonder that Lightfoot thought of men as utterly heartless ?
You see , he could not know that those hounds had not been put on his trail , but had left home to hunt for their own pleasure .
He could not know that it was against the law to hunt him with dogs .
But though none of those hunters looking for him were guilty of having put the hounds on his trail , each one of them was willing and eager to take advantage of the fact that the hounds were on his trail .
Already he had been shot at once and he knew that he would be shot at again if he should be driven where a hunter was hidden .
The ground was damp and scent always lies best on damp ground .
This made it easy for the hounds to follow him with their wonderful noses .
Lightfoot tried every trick he could think of to make those hounds lose the scent .
`` If only I could make them lose it long enough for me to get a little rest , it would help , '' panted Lightfoot , as he paused for just an instant to listen to the baying of the hounds .
But he could n't .
They allowed him no rest .
He was becoming very , very tired .
He could no longer bound lightly over fallen logs or brush , as he had done at first .
His lungs ached as he panted for breath .
He realized that even though he should escape the hunters he would meet an even more terrible death unless he could get rid of those hounds .
There would come a time when he would have to stop .
Then those hounds would catch up with him and tear him to pieces .
It was then that he remembered the Big River .
He turned towards it .
It was his only chance and he knew it .
Straight through the Green Forest , out across the Green Meadows to the bank of the Big River , Lightfoot ran .
For just a second he paused to look behind .
The hounds were almost at his heels .
Lightfoot hesitated no longer but plunged into the Big River and began to swim .
On the banks the hounds stopped and bayed their disappointment , for they did not dare follow Lightfoot out into the Big River .
CHAPTER XXII LIGHTFOOT 'S LONG SWIM The Big River was very wide .
It would have been a long swim for Lightfoot had he been fresh and at his best .
Strange as it may seem , Lightfoot is a splendid swimmer , despite his small , delicate feet .
He enjoys swimming .
But now Lightfoot was terribly tired from his long run ahead of the hounds .
For a time he swam rapidly , but those weary muscles grew still more weary , and by the time he reached the middle of the Big River it seemed to him that he was not getting ahead at all .
At first he had tried to swim towards a clump of trees he could see on the opposite bank above the point where he had entered the water , but to do this he had to swim against the current and he soon found that he had n't the strength to do this .
Then he turned and headed for a point down the Big River .
This made the swimming easier , for the current helped him instead of hindering him .
Even then he could feel his strength leaving him .
Had he escaped those hounds and the terrible hunters only to be drowned in the Big River ?
This new fear gave him more strength for a little while .
But it did not last long .
He was three fourths of the way across the Big River but still that other shore seemed a long distance away .
Little by little hope died in the heart of Lightfoot the Deer .
He would keep on just as long as he could and then , -- well , it was better to drown than to be torn to pieces by dogs .
Just as Lightfoot felt that he could not take another stroke and that the end was at hand , one foot touched something .
Then , all four feet touched .
A second later he had found solid footing and was standing with the water only up to his knees .
He had found a little sand bar out in the Big River .
With a little gasp of returning hope , Lightfoot waded along until the water began to grow deeper again .
He had hoped that he would be able to wade ashore , but he saw now that he would have to swim again .
So for a long time he remained right where he was .
He was so tired that he trembled all over , and he was as frightened as he was tired .
He knew that standing out there in the water he could be seen for a long distance , and that made him nervous and fearful .
Supposing a hunter on the shore he was trying to reach should see him .
Then he would have no chance at all , for the hunter would simply wait for him and shoot him as he came out of the water .
But rest he must , and so he stood for a long time on the little sand bar in the Big River .
And little by little he felt his strength returning .
CHAPTER XXIII LIGHTFOOT FINDS A FRIEND As Lightfoot rested , trying to recover his breath , out there on the little sand bar in the Big River , his great , soft , beautiful eyes watched first one bank and then the other .
On the bank he had left , he could see two black-and-white specks moving about , and across the water came the barking of dogs .
Those two specks were the hounds who had driven him into the Big River .
They were barking now , instead of baying .
Presently a brown form joined the black-and-white specks .
It was a hunter drawn there by the barking of the dogs .
He was too far away to be dangerous , but the mere sight of him filled Lightfoot with terror again .
He watched the hunter walk along the bank and disappear in the bushes .
Presently out of the bushes came a boat , and in it was the hunter .
He headed straight towards Lightfoot , and then Lightfoot knew that his brief rest was at an end .
He must once more swim or be shot by the hunter in the boat .
So Lightfoot again struck out for the shore .
His rest had given him new strength , but still he was very , very tired and swimming was hard work .
Slowly , oh so slowly , he drew nearer to the bank .
What new dangers might be waiting there , he did not know .
He had never been on that side of the Big River .
He knew nothing of the country on that side .
But the uncertainty was better than the certainty behind him .
He could hear the sound of the oars as the hunter in the boat did his best to get to him before he should reach the shore .
On Lightfoot struggled .
At last he felt bottom beneath his feet .
He staggered up through some bushes along the bank and then for an instant it seemed to him his heart stopped beating .
Right in front of him stood a man .
He had come out into the back yard of the home of that man .
It is doubtful which was the more surprised , Lightfoot or the man .
Right then and there Lightfoot gave up in despair .
He could n't run .
It was all he could do to walk .
The long chase by the hounds on the other side of the Big River and the long swim across the Big River had taken all his strength .
Not a spark of hope remained to Lightfoot .
He simply stood still and trembled , partly with fear and partly with weariness .
Then a surprising thing happened .
The man spoke softly .
He advanced , not threateningly but slowly , and in a friendly way .
He walked around back of Lightfoot and then straight towards him .
Lightfoot walked on a few steps , and the man followed , still talking softly .
Little by little he urged Lightfoot on , driving him towards an open shed in which was a pile of hay .
Without understanding just how , Lightfoot knew that he had found a friend .
So he entered the open shed and with a long sigh lay down in the soft hay .
CHAPTER XXIV THE HUNTER IS DISAPPOINTED How he knew he was safe , Lightfoot the Deer could n't have told you .
He just knew it , that was all .
He could n't understand a word said by the man in whose yard he found himself when he climbed the bank after his long swim across the Big River .
But he did n't have to understand words to know that he had found a friend .
So he allowed the man to drive him gently over to an open shed where there was a pile of soft hay and there he lay down , so tired that it seemed to him he could n't move another step .
It was only a few minutes later that the hunter who had followed Lightfoot across the River reached the bank and scrambled out of his boat .
Lightfoot 's friend was waiting just at the top of the bank .
Of course the hunter saw him at once .
`` Hello , Friend ! ''
cried the hunter .
`` Did you see a Deer pass this way a few minutes ago ?
He swam across the river , and if I know anything about it he 's too tired to travel far now .
I 've been hunting that fellow for several days , and if I have any luck at all I ought to get him this time . ''
`` I 'm afraid you wo n't have any luck at all , '' said Lightfoot 's friend .
`` You see , I do n't allow any hunting on my land . ''
The hunter looked surprised , and then his surprise gave way to anger .
`` You mean , '' said he , `` that you intend to get that Deer yourself . ''
Lightfoot 's friend shook his head .
`` No , '' said he , `` I do n't mean anything of the kind .
I mean that that Deer is not to be killed if I can prevent it , and while it is on my land , I think I can .
The best thing for you to do , my friend , is to get into your boat and row back where you came from .
Are those your hounds barking over there ? ''
`` No , '' replied the hunter promptly .
`` I know the law just as well as you do , and it is against the law to hunt Deer with dogs .
I do n't even know who owns those two hounds over there . ''
`` That may be true , '' replied Lightfoot 's friend .
`` I do n't doubt it is true .
But you are willing to take advantage of the fact that the dogs of some one else have broken the law .
You knew that those dogs had driven that Deer into the Big River and you promptly took advantage of the fact to try to reach that Deer before he could get across .
You are not hunting for the pleasure of hunting but just to kill .
You do n't know the meaning of justice or fairness .
Now get off my land .
Get back into your boat and off my land as quick as you can .
That Deer is not very far from here and so tired that he can not move .
Just as long as he will stay here , he will be safe , and I hope he will stay until this miserable hunting season is ended .
Now go . ''
Muttering angrily , the hunter got back into his boat and pushed off , but he did n't row back across the river .
CHAPTER XXV THE HUNTER LIES IN WAIT If ever there was an angry hunter , it was the one who had followed Lightfoot the Deer across the Big River .
When he was ordered to get off the land where Lightfoot had climbed out , he got back into his boat , but he did n't row back to the other side .
Instead , he rowed down the river , finally landing on the same side but on land which Lightfoot 's friend did not own .
`` When that Deer has become rested he 'll become uneasy , '' thought the hunter .
`` He wo n't stay on that man 's land .
He 'll start for the nearest woods .
I 'll go up there and wait for him .
I 'll get that Deer if only to spite that fellow back there who drove me off .
Had it not been for him , I 'd have that Deer right now .
He was too tired to have gone far .
He 's got the handsomest pair of antlers I 've seen for years .
I can sell that head of his for a good price . ''
So the hunter tied his boat to a tree and once more climbed out .
He climbed up the bank and studied the land .
Across a wide meadow he could see a brushy old pasture and back of that some thick woods .
He grinned .
`` That 's where that Deer will head for , '' he decided .
`` There is n't any other place for him to go .
All I 've got to do is be patient and wait . ''
So the hunter took his terrible gun and tramped across the meadow to the brush-grown pasture .
There he hid among the bushes where he could peep out and watch the land of Lightfoot 's friend .
He was still angry because he had been prevented from shooting Lightfoot .
At the same time he chuckled , because he thought himself very smart .
Lightfoot could n't possibly reach the shelter of the woods without giving him a shot , and he had n't the least doubt that Lightfoot would start for the woods just as soon as he felt able to travel .
So he made himself comfortable and prepared to wait the rest of the day , if necessary .
Now Lightfoot 's friend who had driven the hunter off had seen him row down the river and he had guessed just what was in that hunter 's mind .
`` We 'll fool him , '' said he , chuckling to himself , as he walked back towards the shed where poor Lightfoot was resting .
He did not go too near Lightfoot , for he did not want to alarm him .
He just kept within sight of Lightfoot , paying no attention to him but going about his work .
You see , this man loved and understood the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , and he knew that there was no surer way of winning Lightfoot 's confidence and trust than by appearing to take no notice of him .
Lightfoot , watching him , understood .
He knew that this man was a friend and would do him no harm .
Little by little , the wonderful , blessed feeling of safety crept over Lightfoot .
No hunter could harm him here .
CHAPTER XXVI LIGHTFOOT DOES THE WISE THING All the rest of that day the hunter with the terrible gun lay hidden in the bushes of the pasture where he could watch for Lightfoot the Deer to leave the place of safety he had found .
It required a lot of patience on the part of the hunter , but the hunter had plenty of patience .
It sometimes seems as if hunters have more patience than any other people .
But this hunter waited in vain .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun sank down in the west to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
The Black Shadows crept out and grew blacker .
One by one the stars began to twinkle .
Still the hunter waited , and still there was no sign of Lightfoot .
At last it became so dark that it was useless for the hunter to remain longer .
Disappointed and once more becoming angry , he tramped back to the Big River , climbed into his boat and rowed across to the other side .
Then he tramped home and his thoughts were very bitter .
He knew that he could have shot Lightfoot had it not been for the man who had protected the Deer .
He even began to suspect that this man had himself killed Lightfoot , for he had been sure that as soon as he had become rested Lightfoot would start for the woods , and Lightfoot had done nothing of the kind .
In fact , the hunter had not had so much as another glimpse of Lightfoot .
The reason that the hunter had been so disappointed was that Lightfoot was smart .
He was smart enough to understand that the man who was saving him from the hunter had done it because he was a true friend .
All the afternoon Lightfoot had rested on a bed of soft hay in an open shed and had watched this man going about his work and taking the utmost care to do nothing to frighten Lightfoot .
`` He not only will let no one else harm me , but he himself will not harm me , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` As long as he is near , I am safe .
I 'll stay right around here until the hunting season is over , then I 'll swim back across the Big River to my home in the dear Green Forest . ''
So all afternoon Lightfoot rested and did not so much as put his nose outside that open shed .
That is why the hunter got no glimpse of him .
When it became dark , so dark that he knew there was no longer danger , Lightfoot got up and stepped out under the stars .
He was feeling quite himself again .
His splendid strength had returned .
He bounded lightly across the meadow and up into the brushy pasture where the hunter had been hidden .
There and in the woods back of the pasture he browsed , but at the first hint of the coming of another day , Lightfoot turned back , and when his friend , the farmer , came out early in the morning to milk the cows , there was Lightfoot back in the open shed .
The farmer smiled .
`` You are as wise as you are handsome , old fellow , '' said he .
CHAPTER XXVII SAMMY JAY WORRIES It is n't often Sammy Jay worries about anybody but himself .
Truth to tell , he does n't worry about himself very often .
You see , Sammy is smart , and he knows he is smart .
Under that pointed cap of his are some of the cleverest wits in all the Green Forest .
Sammy seldom worries about himself because he feels quite able to take care of himself .
But Sammy Jay was worrying now .
He was worrying about Lightfoot the Deer .
Yes , Sir , Sammy Jay was worrying about Lightfoot the Deer .
For two days he had been unable to find Lightfoot or any trace of Lightfoot .
But he did find plenty of hunters with terrible guns .
It seemed to him that they were everywhere in the Green Forest .
Sammy began to suspect that one of them must have succeeded in killing Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy knew all of Lightfoot 's hiding-places .
He visited every one of them .
Lightfoot was n't to be found , and no one whom Sammy met had seen Lightfoot for two days .
Sammy felt badly .
You see , he was very fond of Lightfoot .
You remember it was Sammy who warned Lightfoot of the coming of the hunter on the morning when the dreadful hunting season began .
Ever since the hunting season had opened , Sammy had done his best to make trouble for the hunters .
Whenever he had found one of them he had screamed at the top of his voice to warn every one within hearing just where that hunter was .
Once a hunter had lost his temper and shot at Sammy , but Sammy had suspected that something of the kind might happen , and he had taken care to keep just out of reach .
Sammy had known all about the chasing of Lightfoot by the hounds .
Everybody in the Green Forest had known about it .
You see , everybody had heard the voices of those hounds .
Once , Lightfoot had passed right under the tree in which Sammy was sitting , and a few moments later the two hounds had passed with their noses to the ground as they followed Lightfoot 's trail .
That was the last Sammy had seen of Lightfoot .
He had been able to save Lightfoot from the hunters , but he could n't save him from the hounds .
The more Sammy thought things over , the more he worried .
`` I am afraid those hounds drove him out where a hunter could get a shot and kill him , or else that they tired him out and killed him themselves , '' thought Sammy .
`` If he were alive , somebody certainly would have seen him and nobody has , since the day those hounds chased him .
I declare , I have quite lost my appetite worrying about him .
If Lightfoot is dead , and I am almost sure he is , the Green Forest will never seem the same . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII THE HUNTING SEASON ENDS The very worst things come to an end at last .
No matter how bad a thing is , it can not last forever .
So it was with the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
There came a day when the law protected all Deer , -- a day when the hunters could no longer go searching for Lightfoot .
Usually there was great rejoicing among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows when the hunting season ended and they knew that Lightfoot would be in no more danger until the next hunting season .
But this year there was no rejoicing .
You see , no one could find Lightfoot .
The last seen of him was when he was running for his life with two hounds baying on his trail and the Green Forest filled with hunters watching for a chance to shoot him .
Sammy Jay had hunted everywhere through the Green Forest .
Blacky the Crow , whose eyes are quite as sharp as those of Sammy Jay , had joined in the search .
They had found no trace of Lightfoot .
Paddy the Beaver said that for three days Lightfoot had not visited his pond for a drink .
Billy Mink , who travels up and down the Laughing Brook , had looked for Lightfoot 's footprints in the soft earth along the banks and had found only old ones .
Jumper the Hare had visited Lightfoot 's favorite eating places at night , but Lightfoot had not been in any of them .
-LSB- Illustration : `` I tell you what it is , '' said Sammy Jay to Bobby Coon , `` something has happened to Lightfoot . '' -RSB-
`` I tell you what it is , '' said Sammy Jay to Bobby Coon , `` something has happened to Lightfoot .
Either those hounds caught him and killed him , or he was shot by one of those hunters .
The Green Forest will never be the same without him .
I do n't think I shall want to come over here very much .
There is n't one of all the other people who live in the Green Forest who would be missed as Lightfoot will be . ''
Bobby Coon nodded .
`` That 's true , Sammy , '' said he .
`` Without Lightfoot , the Green Forest will never be the same .
He never harmed anybody .
Why those hunters should have been so anxious to kill one so beautiful is something I ca n't understand .
For that matter , I do n't understand why they want to kill any of us .
If they really needed us for food , it would be a different matter , but they do n't .
Have you been up in the Old Pasture and asked Old Man Coyote if he has seen anything of Lightfoot ? ''
Sammy nodded .
`` I 've been up there twice , '' said he .
`` Old Man Coyote has been lying very low during the days , but nights he has done a lot of traveling .
You know Old Man Coyote has a mighty good nose , but not once since the day those hounds chased Lightfoot has he found so much as a tiny whiff of Lightfoot 's scent .
I thought he might have found the place where Lightfoot was killed , but he has n't , although he has looked for it .
Well , the hunting season for Lightfoot is over , but I am afraid it has ended too late . ''
CHAPTER XXIX Mr. AND MRS. QUACK ARE STARTLED It was the evening of the day after the closing of the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had gone to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows had crept out across the Big River .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack were getting their evening meal among the brown stalks of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River .
They took turns in searching for the rice grains in the mud .
While Mrs. Quack tipped up and seemed to stand on her head as she searched in the mud for rice , Mr. Quack kept watch for possible danger .
Then Mrs. Quack took her turn at keeping watch , while Mr. Quack stood on his head and hunted for rice .
It was wonderfully quiet and peaceful .
There was not even a ripple on the Big River .
It was so quiet that they could hear the barking of a dog at a farmhouse a mile away .
They were far enough out from the bank to have nothing to fear from Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote .
So they had nothing to fear from any one save Hooty the Owl .
It was for Hooty that they took turns in watching .
It was just the hour when Hooty likes best to hunt .
By and by they heard Hooty 's hunting call .
It was far away in the Green Forest .
Then Mr. and Mrs. Quack felt easier , and they talked in low , contented voices .
They felt that for a while at least there was nothing to fear .
Suddenly a little splash out in the Big River caught Mr. Quack 's quick ear .
As Mrs. Quack brought her head up out of the water , Mr. Quack warned her to keep quiet .
Noiselessly they swam among the brown stalks until they could see out across the Big River .
There was another little splash out there in the middle .
It was n't the splash made by a fish ; it was a splash made by something much bigger than any fish .
Presently they made out a silver line moving towards them from the Black Shadows .
They knew exactly what it meant .
It meant that some one was out there in the Big River moving towards them .
Could it be a boat containing a hunter ?
With their necks stretched high , Mr. and Mrs. Quack watched .
They were ready to take to their strong wings the instant they discovered danger .
But they did not want to fly until they were sure that it was danger approaching .
They were startled , very much startled .
Presently they made out what looked like the branch of a tree moving over the water towards them .
That was queer , very queer .
Mr. Quack said so .
Mrs. Quack said so .
Both were growing more and more suspicious .
They could n't understand it at all , and it is always best to be suspicious of things you can not understand .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack half lifted their wings to fly .
CHAPTER XXX THE MYSTERY IS SOLVED It was very mysterious .
Yes , Sir , it was very mysterious .
Mr. Quack thought so .
Mrs. Quack thought so .
There , out in the Big River , in the midst of the Black Shadows , was something which looked like the branch of a tree .
But instead of moving down the river , as the branch of a tree would if it were floating , this was coming straight across the river as if it were swimming .
But how could the branch of a tree swim ?
That was too much for Mr. Quack .
It was too much for Mrs. Quack .
So they sat perfectly still among the brown stalks of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River , and not for a second did they take their eyes from that strange thing moving towards them .
They were ready to spring into the air and trust to their swift wings the instant they should detect danger .
But they did not want to fly unless they had to .
Besides , they were curious .
They were very curious indeed .
They wanted to find out what that mysterious thing moving through the water towards them was .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack watched that thing that looked like a swimming branch draw nearer and nearer , and the nearer it drew the more they were puzzled , and the more curious they felt .
If it had been the pond of Paddy the Beaver instead of the Big River , they would have thought it was Paddy swimming with a branch for his winter food pile .
But Paddy the Beaver was way back in his own pond , deep in the Green Forest , and they knew it .
So this thing became more and more of a mystery .
The nearer it came , the more nervous and anxious they grew , and at the same time the greater became their curiosity .
At last Mr. Quack felt that not even to gratify his curiosity would it be safe to wait longer .
He prepared to spring into the air , knowing that Mrs. Quack would follow him .
It was just then that a funny little sound reached him .
It was half snort , half cough , as if some one had sniffed some water up his nose .
There was something familiar about that sound .
Mr. Quack decided to wait a few minutes longer .
`` I 'll wait , '' thought Mr. Quack , `` until that thing , whatever it is , comes out of those Black Shadows into the moonlight .
Somehow I have a feeling that we are in no danger . ''
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack waited and watched .
In a few minutes the thing that looked like the branch of a tree came out of the Black Shadows into the moonlight , and then the mystery was solved .
It was a mystery no longer .
They saw that they had mistaken the antlers of Lightfoot the Deer for the branch of a tree .
Lightfoot was swimming across the Big River on his way back to his home in the Green Forest .
At once Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam out to meet him and to tell him how glad they were that he was alive and safe .
CHAPTER XXXI A SURPRISING DISCOVERY Probably there was no happier Thanksgiving in all the Great World than the Thanksgiving of Lightfoot the Deer , when the dreadful hunting season ended and he was once more back in his beloved Green Forest with nothing to fear .
All his neighbors called on him to tell him how glad they were that he had escaped and how the Green Forest would not have been the same if he had not returned .
So Lightfoot roamed about without fear and was happy .
It seemed to him that he could not be happier .
There was plenty to eat and that blessed feeling of nothing to fear .
What more could any one ask ?
He began to grow sleek and fat and handsomer than ever .
The days were growing colder and the frosty air made him feel good .
Just at dusk one evening he went down to his favorite drinking place at the Laughing Brook .
As he put down his head to drink he saw something which so surprised him that he quite forgot he was thirsty .
What do you think it was he saw ?
It was a footprint in the soft mud .
Yes , Sir , it was a footprint .
For a long time Lightfoot stood staring at that footprint .
In his great , soft eyes was a look of wonder and surprise .
You see , that footprint was exactly like one of his own , only smaller .
To Lightfoot it was a very wonderful footprint .
He was quite sure that never had he seen such a dainty footprint .
He forgot to drink .
Instead , he began to search for other footprints , and presently he found them .
Each was as dainty as that first one .
Who could have made them ?
That is what Lightfoot wanted to know and what he meant to find out .
It was clear to him that there was a stranger in the Green Forest , and somehow he did n't resent it in the least .
In fact , he was glad .
He could n't have told why , but it was true .
Lightfoot put his nose to the footprints and sniffed of them .
Even had he not known by looking at those prints that they had been made by a stranger , his nose would have told him this .
A great longing to find the maker of those footprints took possession of him .
He lifted his handsome head and listened for some slight sound which might show that the stranger was near .
With his delicate nostrils he tested the wandering little Night Breezes for a stray whiff of scent to tell him which way to go .
But there was no sound and the wandering little Night Breezes told him nothing .
Lightfoot followed the dainty footprints up the bank .
There they disappeared , for the ground was hard .
Lightfoot paused , undecided which way to go .
CHAPTER XXXII LIGHTFOOT SEES THE STRANGER Lightfoot the Deer was unhappy .
It was a strange unhappiness , an unhappiness such as he had never known before .
You see , he had discovered that there was a stranger in the Green Forest , a stranger of his own kind , another Deer .
He knew it by dainty footprints in the mud along the Laughing Brook and on the edge of the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
He knew it by other signs which he ran across every now and then .
But search as he would , he was unable to find that newcomer .
He had searched everywhere but always he was just too late .
The stranger had been and gone .
Now there was no anger in Lightfoot 's desire to find that stranger .
Instead , there was a great longing .
For the first time in his life Lightfoot felt lonely .
So he hunted and hunted and was unhappy .
He lost his appetite .
He slept little .
He roamed about uneasily , looking , listening , testing every Merry Little Breeze , but all in vain .
Then , one never-to-be-forgotten night , as he drank at the Laughing Brook , a strange feeling swept over him .
It was the feeling of being watched .
Lightfoot lifted his beautiful head and a slight movement caught his quick eye and drew it to a thicket not far away .
The silvery light of gentle Mistress Moon fell full on that thicket , and thrust out from it was the most beautiful head in all the Great World .
At least , that is the way it seemed to Lightfoot , though to tell the truth it was not as beautiful as his own , for it was uncrowned by antlers .
For a long minute Lightfoot stood gazing .
A pair of wonderful , great , soft eyes gazed back at him .
Then that beautiful head disappeared .
With a mighty bound , Lightfoot cleared the Laughing Brook and rushed over to the thicket in which that beautiful head had disappeared .
He plunged in , but there was no one there .
Frantically he searched , but that thicket was empty .
Then he stood still and listened .
Not a sound reached him .
It was as still as if there were no other living things in all the Green Forest .
The beautiful stranger had slipped away as silently as a shadow .
All the rest of that night Lightfoot searched through the Green Forest but his search was in vain .
The longing to find that beautiful stranger had become so great that he fairly ached with it .
It seemed to him that until he found her he could know no happiness .
CHAPTER XXXIII A DIFFERENT GAME OF HIDE AND SEEK Once more Lightfoot the Deer was playing hide and seek in the Green Forest .
But it was a very different game from the one he had played just a short time before .
You remember that then it had been for his life that he had played , and he was the one who had done all the hiding .
Now , he was `` it '' , and some one else was doing the hiding .
Instead of the dreadful fear which had filled him in that other game , he was now filled with longing , -- longing to find and make friends with the beautiful stranger of whom he had just once caught a glimpse , but of whom every day he found tracks .
At times Lightfoot would lose his temper .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot would lose his temper .
That was a foolish thing to do , but it seemed to him that he just could n't help it .
He would stamp his feet angrily and thrash the bushes with his great spreading antlers as if they were an enemy with whom he was fighting .
More than once when he did this a pair of great , soft , gentle eyes were watching him , though he did n't know it .
If he could have seen them and the look of admiration in them , he would have been more eager than ever to find that beautiful stranger .
At other times Lightfoot would steal about through the Green Forest as noiselessly as a shadow .
He would peer into thickets and behind tangles of fallen trees and brush piles , hoping to surprise the one he sought .
He would be very , very patient .
Perhaps he would come to the thicket which he knew from the signs the stranger had left only a few moments before .
Then his patience would vanish in impatience , and he would dash ahead , eager to catch up with the shy stranger .
But always it was in vain .
He had thought himself very clever but this stranger was proving herself more clever .
Of course it was n't long before all the little people in the Green Forest knew what was going on .
They knew all about that game of hide and seek just as they had known all about that other game of hide and seek with the hunters .
But now , instead of trying to help Lightfoot as they did then , they gave him no help at all .
The fact is , they were enjoying that game .
Mischievous Sammy Jay even went so far as to warn the stranger several times when Lightfoot was approaching .
Of course Lightfoot knew when Sammy did this , and each time he lost his temper .
For the time being , he quite forgot all that Sammy had done for him when he was the one that was being hunted .
Once Lightfoot almost ran smack into Buster Bear and was so provoked by his own carelessness that instead of bounding away he actually threatened to fight Buster .
But when Buster grinned good-naturedly at him , Lightfoot thought better of it and bounded away to continue his search .
Then there were times when Lightfoot would sulk and would declare over and over to himself , `` I do n't care anything about that stranger .
I wo n't spend another minute looking for her , '' And then within five minutes he would be watching , listening and seeking some sign that she was still in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXIV A STARTLING NEW FOOTPRINT The game of hide and seek between Lightfoot the Deer and the beautiful stranger whose dainty footprints had first started Lightfoot to seeking her had been going on for several days and nights when Lightfoot found something which gave him a shock .
He had stolen very softly down to the Laughing Brook , hoping to surprise the beautiful stranger drinking there .
She was n't to be seen .
Lightfoot wondered if she had been there , so looked in the mud at the edge of the Laughing Brook to see if there were any fresh prints of those dainty feet .
Almost at once he discovered fresh footprints .
They were not the prints he was looking for .
No , Sir , they were not the dainty prints he had learned to know so well .
They were prints very near the size of his own big ones , and they had been made only a short time before .
The finding of those prints was a dreadful shock to Lightfoot .
He understood instantly what they meant .
They meant that a second stranger had come into the Green Forest , one who had antlers like his own .
Jealousy took possession of Lightfoot the Deer ; jealousy that filled his heart with rage .
`` He has come here to seek that beautiful stranger I have been hunting for , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` He has come here to try to steal her away from me .
He has no right here in my Green Forest .
He belongs back up on the Great Mountain from which he must have come , for there is no other place he could have come from .
That is where that beautiful stranger must have come from , too .
I want her to stay , but I must drive this fellow out .
I 'll make him fight .
That 's what I 'll do ; I 'll make him fight !
I 'm not afraid of him , but I 'll make him fear me . ''
Lightfoot stamped his feet and with his great antlers thrashed the bushes as if he felt that they were the enemy he sought .
Could you have looked into his great eyes then , you would have found nothing soft and beautiful about them .
They became almost red with anger .
Lightfoot quivered all over with rage .
The hair on the back of his neck stood up .
Lightfoot the Deer looked anything but gentle .
After he had vented his spite for a few minutes on the harmless , helpless bushes , he threw his head high in the air and whistled angrily .
Then he leaped over the Laughing Brook and once more began to search through the Green Forest .
But this time it was not for the beautiful stranger with the dainty feet .
He had no time to think of her now .
He must first find this newcomer and he meant to waste no time in doing it .
CHAPTER XXXV LIGHTFOOT IS RECKLESS In his search for the new stranger who had come to the Green Forest , Lightfoot the Deer was wholly reckless .
He no longer stole like a gray shadow from thicket to thicket as he had done when searching for the beautiful stranger with the dainty feet .
He bounded along , careless of how much noise he made .
From time to time he would stop to whistle a challenge and to clash his horns against the trees and stamp the ground with his feet .
After such exhibitions of anger he would pause to listen , hoping to hear some sound which would tell him where the stranger was .
Now and then he found the stranger 's tracks , and from them he knew that this stranger was doing just what he had been doing , seeking to find the beautiful newcomer with the dainty feet .
Each time he found these signs Lightfoot 's rage increased .
Of course it did n't take Sammy Jay long to discover what was going on .
There is little that escapes those sharp eyes of Sammy Jay .
As you know , he had early discovered the game of hide and seek Lightfoot had been playing with the beautiful young visitor who had come down to the Green Forest from the Great Mountain .
Then , by chance , Sammy had visited the Laughing Brook just as the big stranger had come down there to drink .
For once Sammy had kept his tongue still .
`` There is going to be excitement here when Lightfoot discovers this fellow , '' thought Sammy .
`` If they ever meet , and I have a feeling that they will , there is going to be a fight worth seeing .
I must pass the word around . ''
So Sammy Jay hunted up his cousin , Blacky the Crow , and told him what he had discovered .
Then he hunted up Bobby Coon and told him .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum sitting in the doorway of his hollow tree and told him .
He discovered Jumper the Hare sitting under a little hemlock-tree and told him .
Then he flew over to the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Peter Rabbit .
Of course he told Drummer the Woodpecker , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and Yank Yank the Nuthatch , who were over in the Old Orchard , and they at once hurried to the Green Forest , for they could n't think of missing anything so exciting as would be the meeting between Lightfoot and the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
Sammy did n't forget to tell Paddy the Beaver , but it was no news to Paddy .
Paddy had seen the big stranger on the edge of his pond early the night before .
Of course , Lightfoot knew nothing about all this .
His one thought was to find that big stranger and drive him from the Green Forest , and so he continued his search tirelessly .
CHAPTER XXXVI SAMMY JAY TAKES A HAND Sammy Jay was bubbling over with excitement as he flew about through the Green Forest , following Lightfoot the Deer .
He was so excited he wanted to scream .
But he did n't .
He kept his tongue still .
You see , he did n't want Lightfoot to know that he was being followed .
Under that pointed cap of Sammy Jay 's are quick wits .
It did n't take him long to discover that the big stranger whom Lightfoot was seeking was doing his best to keep out of Lightfoot 's way and that he was having no difficulty in doing so because of the reckless way in which Lightfoot was searching for him .
Lightfoot made so much noise that it was quite easy to know just where he was and to keep out of his sight .
`` That stranger is nearly as big as Lightfoot , but it is very plain that he does n't want to fight , '' thought Sammy .
`` He must be a coward . ''
Now the truth is , the stranger was not a coward .
He was ready and willing to fight if he had to , but if he could avoid fighting he meant to .
You see , big as he was , he was n't quite so big as Lightfoot , and he knew it .
He had seen Lightfoot 's big footprints , and from their size he knew that Lightfoot must be bigger and heavier than he .
Then , too , he knew that he really had no right to be there in the Green Forest .
That was Lightfoot 's home and so he was an intruder .
He knew that Lightfoot would feel this way about it and that this would make him fight all the harder .
So the big stranger wanted to avoid a fight if possible .
But he wanted still more to find that beautiful young visitor with the dainty feet for whom Lightfoot had been looking .
He wanted to find her just as Lightfoot wanted to find her , and he hoped that if he did find her , he could take her away with him back to the Great Mountain .
If he had to , he would fight for her , but until he had to he would keep out of the fight .
So he dodged Lightfoot and at the same time looked for the beautiful stranger .
All this Sammy Jay guessed , and after a while he grew tired of following Lightfoot for nothing .
`` I 'll have to take a hand in this thing myself , '' muttered Sammy .
`` At this rate , Lightfoot never will find that big stranger ! ''
So Sammy stopped following Lightfoot and began to search through the Green Forest for the big stranger .
It did n't take very long to find him .
He was over near the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
As soon as he saw him , Sammy began to scream at the top of his lungs .
At once he heard the sound of snapping twigs at the top of a little ridge back of Paddy 's pond and knew that Lightfoot had heard and understood .
CHAPTER XXXVII THE GREAT FIGHT Down from the top of the ridge back of the pond of Paddy the Beaver plunged Lightfoot the Deer , his eyes blazing with rage .
He had understood the screaming of Sammy Jay .
He knew that somewhere down there was the big stranger he had been looking for .
The big stranger had understood Sammy 's screaming quite as well as Lightfoot .
He knew that to run away now would be to prove himself a coward and forever disgrace himself in the eyes of Miss Daintyfoot , for that was the name of the beautiful stranger he had been seeking .
He must fight .
There was no way out of it , he must fight .
The hair on the back of his neck stood up with anger just as did the hair on the neck of Lightfoot .
His eyes also blazed .
He bounded out into a little open place by the pond of Paddy the Beaver and there he waited .
Meanwhile Sammy Jay was flying about in the greatest excitement , screaming at the top of his lungs , `` A fight !
A fight !
A fight ! ''
Blacky the Crow , over in another part of the Green Forest , heard him and took up the cry and at once hurried over to Paddy 's pond .
Everybody who was near enough hurried there .
Bobby Coon and Unc ' Billy Possum climbed trees from which they could see and at the same time be safe .
Billy Mink hurried to a safe place on the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Paddy himself climbed up on the roof of his house out in the pond .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , who happened to be not far away , hurried over where they could peep out from under some young hemlock-trees .
Buster Bear shuffled down the hill and watched from the other side of the pond .
Reddy and Granny Fox were both there .
For what seemed like the longest time , but which was for only a minute , Lightfoot and the big stranger stood still , glaring at each other .
Then , snorting with rage , they lowered their heads and plunged together .
Their antlers clashed with a noise that rang through the Green Forest , and both fell to their knees .
There they pushed and struggled .
Then they separated and backed away , to repeat the movement over again .
It was a terrible fight .
Everybody said so .
If they had not known before , everybody knew now what those great antlers were for .
Once the big stranger managed to reach Lightfoot 's right shoulder with one of the sharp points of his antlers and made a long tear in Lightfoot 's gray coat .
It only made Lightfoot fight harder .
Sometimes they would rear up and strike with their sharp hoofs .
Back and forth they plunged , and the ground was torn up by their feet .
Both were getting out of breath , and from time to time they had to stop for a moment 's rest .
Then they would come together again more fiercely than ever .
Never had such a fight been seen in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXVIII AN UNSEEN WATCHER As Lightfoot the Deer and the big stranger from the Great Mountain fought in the little opening near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , neither knew or cared who saw them .
Each was filled fully with rage and determined to drive the other from the Green Forest .
Each was fighting for the right to win the love of Miss Daintyfoot .
Neither of them knew that Miss Daintyfoot herself was watching them .
But she was .
She had heard the clash of their great antlers as they had come together the first time , and she had known exactly what it meant .
Timidly she had stolen forward to a thicket where , safely hidden , she could watch that terrible fight .
She knew that they were fighting for her .
Of course .
She knew it just as she had known how both had been hunting for her .
What she did n't know for some time was which one she wanted to win that fight .
Both Lightfoot and the big stranger were handsome .
Yes , indeed , they were very handsome .
Lightfoot was just a little bit the bigger and it seemed to her just a little bit the handsomer .
She almost wanted him to win .
Then , when she saw how bravely the big stranger was fighting and how well he was holding his own , even though he was a little smaller than Lightfoot , she almost hoped he would win .
That great fight lasted a long time .
To pretty Miss Daintyfoot it seemed that it never would end .
But after a while Lightfoot 's greater size and strength began to tell .
Little by little the big stranger was forced back towards the edge of the open place .
Now he would be thrown to his knees when Lightfoot was n't .
As Lightfoot saw this , he seemed to gain new strength .
At last he caught the stranger in such a way that he threw him over .
While the stranger struggled to get to his feet again , Lightfoot 's sharp antlers made long tears in his gray coat .
The stranger was beaten and he knew it .
The instant he succeeded in getting to his feet he turned tail and plunged for the shelter of the Green Forest .
With a snort of triumph , Lightfoot plunged after him .
But now that he was beaten , fear took possession of the stranger .
All desire to fight left him .
His one thought was to get away , and fear gave him speed .
Straight back towards the Great Mountain from which he had come the stranger headed .
Lightfoot followed only a short distance .
He knew that that stranger was going for good and would not come back .
Then Lightfoot turned back to the open place where they had fought .
There he threw up his beautiful head , crowned by its great antlers , and whistled a challenge to all the Green Forest .
As she looked at him , Miss Daintyfoot knew that she had wanted him to win .
She knew that there simply could n't be anybody else so handsome and strong and brave in all the Great World .
CHAPTER XXXIX LIGHTFOOT DISCOVERS LOVE Wonderfully handsome was Lightfoot the Deer as he stood in the little opening by the pond of Paddy the Beaver , his head thrown back proudly , as he received the congratulations of his neighbors of the Green Forest who had seen him win the great fight with the big stranger who had come down from the Great Mountain .
To beautiful Miss Daintyfoot , peeping out from the thicket where she had hidden to watch the great fight , Lightfoot was the most wonderful person in all the Great World .
She adored him , which means that she loved him just as much as it was possible for her to love .
But Lightfoot did n't know this .
In fact , he did n't know that Miss Daintyfoot was there .
His one thought had been to drive out of the Green Forest the big stranger who had come down from the Great Mountain .
He had been jealous of that big stranger , though he had n't known that he was jealous .
The real cause of his anger and desire to fight had been the fear that the big stranger would find Miss Daintyfoot and take her away .
Of course this was nothing but jealousy .
Now that the great fight was over , and he knew that the big stranger was hurrying back to the Great Mountain , all Lightfoot 's anger melted away .
In its place was a great longing to find Miss Daintyfoot .
His great eyes became once more soft and beautiful .
In them was a look of wistfulness .
Lightfoot walked down to the edge of the water and drank , for he was very , very thirsty .
Then he turned , intending to take up once more his search for beautiful Miss Daintyfoot .
When he turned he faced the thicket in which Miss Daintyfoot was hiding .
His keen eyes caught a little movement of the branches .
A beautiful head was slowly thrust out , and Lightfoot gazed again into a pair of soft eyes which he was sure were the most beautiful eyes in all the Great World .
He wondered if she would disappear and run away as she had the last time he saw her .
He took a step or two forward .
The beautiful head was withdrawn .
