I am answered .
Is it permitted to ask a question ? '
The lama inclined his stately head . '
I ate thy bread for three years -- as thou knowest .
Holy One , whence came -- ? '
` There is much wealth , as men count it , in Bhotiyal , ' the lama returned with composure .
` In my own place I have the illusion of honour .
I ask for that I need .
I am not concerned with the account .
That is for my monastery .
Ai !
The black high seats in the monastery , and novices all in order ! '
And he told stories , tracing with a finger in the dust , of the immense and sumptuous ritual of avalanche-guarded cathedrals ; of processions and devil-dances ; of the changing of monks and nuns into swine ; of holy cities fifteen thousand feet in the air ; of intrigue between monastery and monastery ; of voices among the hills , and of that mysterious mirage that dances on dry snow .
He spoke even of Lhassa and of the Dalai Lama , whom he had seen and adored .
Each long , perfect day rose behind Kim for a barrier to cut him off from his race and his mother-tongue .
He slipped back to thinking and dreaming in the vernacular , and mechanically followed the lama 's ceremonial observances at eating , drinking , and the like .
The old man 's mind turned more and more to his monastery as his eyes turned to the steadfast snows .
His River troubled him nothing .
Now and again , indeed , he would gaze long and long at a tuft or a twig , expecting , he said , the earth to cleave and deliver its blessing ; but he was content to be with his disciple , at ease in the temperate wind that comes down from the Doon .
This was not Ceylon , nor Buddh Gaya , nor Bombay , nor some grass-tangled ruins that he seemed to have stumbled upon two years ago .
He spoke of those places as a scholar removed from vanity , as a Seeker walking in humility , as an old man , wise and temperate , illumining knowledge with brilliant insight .
Bit by bit , disconnectedly , each tale called up by some wayside thing , he spoke of all his wanderings up and down Hind ; till Kim , who had loved him without reason , now loved him for fifty good reasons .
So they enjoyed themselves in high felicity , abstaining , as the Rule demands , from evil words , covetous desires ; not over-eating , not lying on high beds , nor wearing rich clothes .
Their stomachs told them the time , and the people brought them their food , as the saying is .
They were lords of the villages of Aminabad , Sahaigunge , Akrola of the Ford , and little Phulesa , where Kim gave the soulless woman a blessing .
But news travels fast in India , and too soon shuffled across the crop-land , bearing a basket of fruits with a box of Kabul grapes and gilt oranges , a white-whiskered servitor -- a lean , dry Oorya -- begging them to bring the honour of their presence to his mistress , distressed in her mind that the lama had neglected her so long .
` Now do I remember ' -- the lama spoke as though it were a wholly new proposition .
` She is virtuous , but an inordinate talker . '
Kim was sitting on the edge of a cow 's manger , telling stories to a village smith 's children .
` She will only ask for another son for her daughter .
I have not forgotten her , ' he said .
` Let her acquire merit .
Send word that we will come . '
They covered eleven miles through the fields in two days , and were overwhelmed with attentions at the end ; for the old lady held a fine tradition of hospitality , to which she forced her son-in-law , who was under the thumb of his women-folk and bought peace by borrowing of the money-lender .
Age had not weakened her tongue or her memory , and from a discreetly barred upper window , in the hearing of not less than a dozen servants , she paid Kim compliments that would have flung European audiences into unclean dismay .
` But thou art still the shameless beggar-brat of the parao , ' she shrilled . '
I have not forgotten thee .
Wash ye and eat .
The father of my daughter 's son is gone away awhile .
So we poor women are dumb and useless . '
For proof , she harangued the entire household unsparingly till food and drink were brought ; and in the evening -- the smoke-scented evening , copper-dun and turquoise across the fields -- it pleased her to order her palanquin to be set down in the untidy forecourt by smoky torchlight ; and there , behind not too closely drawn curtains , she gossiped .
` Had the Holy One come alone , I should have received him otherwise ; but with this rogue , who can be too careful ? '
` Maharanee , ' said Kim , choosing as always the amplest title , ` is it my fault that none other than a Sahib -- a polis-Sahib -- called the Maharanee whose face he -- ' ` Chutt !
That was on the pilgrimage .
When we travel -- thou knowest the proverb . '
` Called the Maharanee a Breaker of Hearts and a Dispenser of Delights ? '
` To remember that !
It was true .
So he did .
That was in the time of the bloom of my beauty . '
She chuckled like a contented parrot above the sugar lump .
` Now tell me of thy goings and comings -- as much as may be without shame .
How many maids , and whose wives , hang upon thine eyelashes ?
Ye hail from Benares ?
I would have gone there again this year , but my daughter -- we have only two sons .
Phaii !
Such is the effect of these low plains .
Now in Kulu men are elephants .
But I would ask thy Holy One -- stand aside , rogue -- a charm against most lamentable windy colics that in mango-time overtake my daughter 's eldest .
Two years back he gave me a powerful spell . '
` Oh , Holy One ! '
said Kim , bubbling with mirth at the lama 's rueful face .
` It is true .
I gave her one against wind . '
` Teeth -- teeth -- teeth , ' snapped the old woman . ''
` Cure them if they are sick , '' ' Kim quoted relishingly , '' ` but by no means work charms .
Remember what befell the Mahratta . '' '
` That was two Rains ago ; she wearied me with her continual importunity . '
The lama groaned as the Unjust Judge had groaned before him .
` Thus it comes -- take note , my chela -- that even those who would follow the Way are thrust aside by idle women .
Three days through , when the child was sick , she talked to me . '
` Arre !
and to whom else should I talk ?
The boy 's mother knew nothing , and the father -- in the nights of the cold weather it was -- `` Pray to the Gods , '' said he , forsooth , and turning over , snored ! ' '
I gave her the charm .
What is an old man to do ? ' ''
` To abstain from action is well -- except to acquire merit . '' '
` Ah chela , if thou desertest me , I am all alone . '
` He found his milk-teeth easily at any rate , ' said the old lady .
` But all priests are alike . '
Kim coughed severely .
Being young , he did not approve of her flippancy .
` To importune the wise out of season is to invite calamity . '
` There is a talking mynah ' -- the thrust came back with the well-remembered snap of the jewelled fore-finger -- ` over the stables which has picked up the very tone of the family priest .
Maybe I forget honour to my guests , but if ye had seen him double his fists into his belly , which was like a half-grown gourd , and cry : `` Here is the pain ! ''
ye would forgive .
I am half minded to take the hakim 's medicine .
He sells it cheap , and certainly it makes him fat as Shiv 's own bull .
He does not deny remedies , but I doubted for the child because of the in-auspicious colour of the bottles . '
The lama , under cover of the monologue , had faded out into the darkness towards the room prepared .
` Thou hast angered him , belike , ' said Kim .
` Not he .
He is wearied , and I forgot , being a grandmother .
-LRB- None but a grandmother should ever oversee a child .
Mothers are only fit for bearing . -RRB-
Tomorrow , when he sees how my daughter 's son is grown , he will write the charm .
Then , too , he can judge of the new hakim 's drugs . '
` Who is the hakim , Maharanee ? ' '
A wanderer , as thou art , but a most sober Bengali from Dacca -- a master of medicine .
He relieved me of an oppression after meat by means of a small pill that wrought like a devil unchained .
He travels about now , vending preparations of great value .
He has even papers , printed in Angrezi , telling what things he has done for weak-backed men and slack women .
He has been here four days ; but hearing ye were coming -LRB- hakims and priests are snake and tiger the world over -RRB- he has , as I take it , gone to cover . '
While she drew breath after this volley , the ancient servant , sitting unrebuked on the edge of the torchlight , muttered : ` This house is a cattle-pound , as it were , for all charlatans and -- priests .
Let the boy stop eating mangoes ... but who can argue with a grandmother ? '
He raised his voice respectfully : ` Sahiba , the hakim sleeps after his meat .
He is in the quarters behind the dovecote . '
Kim bristled like an expectant terrier .
To outface and down-talk a Calcutta-taught Bengali , a voluble Dacca drug-vendor , would be a good game .
It was not seemly that the lama , and incidentally himself , should be thrown aside for such an one .
He knew those curious bastard English advertisements at the backs of native newspapers .
St Xavier 's boys sometimes brought them in by stealth to snigger over among their mates ; for the language of the grateful patient recounting his symptoms is most simple and revealing .
The Oorya , not unanxious to play off one parasite against the other , slunk away towards the dovecote .
` Yes , ' said Kim , with measured scorn .
` Their stock-in-trade is a little coloured water and a very great shamelessness .
Their prey are broken-down kings and overfed Bengalis .
Their profit is in children -- who are not born . '
The old lady chuckled .
` Do not be envious .
Charms are better , eh ?
I never gainsaid it .
See that thy Holy One writes me a good amulet by the morning . '
` None but the ignorant deny ' -- a thick , heavy voice boomed through the darkness , as a figure came to rest squatting -- ` None but the ignorant deny the value of charms .
None but the ignorant deny the value of medicines . ' '
A rat found a piece of turmeric .
Said he : `` I will open a grocer 's shop , '' ' Kim retorted .
Battle was fairly joined now , and they heard the old lady stiffen to attention .
` The priest 's son knows the names of his nurse and three Gods .
Says he : `` Hear me , or I will curse you by the three million Great Ones . '' '
Decidedly this invisible had an arrow or two in his quiver .
He went on : ' I am but a teacher of the alphabet .
I have learned all the wisdom of the Sahibs . '
` The Sahibs never grow old .
They dance and they play like children when they are grandfathers .
A strong-backed breed , ' piped the voice inside the palanquin . '
I have , too , our drugs which loosen humours of the head in hot and angry men .
Sina well compounded when the moon stands in the proper House ; yellow earths I have -- arplan from China that makes a man renew his youth and astonish his household ; saffron from Kashmir , and the best salep of Kabul .
Many people have died before -- ' ` That I surely believe , ' said Kim .
` They knew the value of my drugs .
I do not give my sick the mere ink in which a charm is written , but hot and rending drugs which descend and wrestle with the evil . '
` Very mightily they do so , ' sighed the old lady .
The voice launched into an immense tale of misfortune and bankruptcy , studded with plentiful petitions to the Government .
` But for my fate , which overrules all , I had been now in Government employ .
I bear a degree from the great school at Calcutta -- whither , maybe , the son of this House shall go . '
` He shall indeed .
If our neighbour 's brat can in a few years be made an F A ' -LRB- First Arts -- she used the English word , of which she had heard so often -RRB- , ` how much more shall children clever as some that I know bear away prizes at rich Calcutta . '
` Never , ' said the voice , ` have I seen such a child !
Born in an auspicious hour , and -- but for that colic which , alas !
turning into black cholers , may carry him off like a pigeon -- destined to many years , he is enviable . '
` Hai mai ! '
said the old lady .
` To praise children is inauspicious , or I could listen to this talk .
But the back of the house is unguarded , and even in this soft air men think themselves to be men , and women we know ... The child 's father is away too , and I must be chowkedar -LSB- watchman -RSB- in my old age .
Up !
Up !
Take up the palanquin .
Let the hakim and the young priest settle between them whether charms or medicine most avail .
Ho !
worthless people , fetch tobacco for the guests , and -- round the homestead go I ! '
The palanquin reeled off , followed by straggling torches and a horde of dogs .
Twenty villages knew the Sahiba -- her failings , her tongue , and her large charity .
Twenty villages cheated her after immemorial custom , but no man would have stolen or robbed within her jurisdiction for any gift under heaven .
None the less , she made great parade of her formal inspections , the riot of which could be heard half-way to Mussoorie .
Kim relaxed , as one augur must when he meets another .
The hakim , still squatting , slid over his hookah with a friendly foot , and Kim pulled at the good weed .
The hangers-on expected grave professional debate , and perhaps a little free doctoring .
` To discuss medicine before the ignorant is of one piece with teaching the peacock to sing , ' said the hakim .
` True courtesy , ' Kim echoed , ` is very often inattention . '
These , be it understood , were company-manners , designed to impress .
` Hi !
I have an ulcer on my leg , ' cried a scullion .
` Look at it ! '
` Get hence !
Remove ! '
said the hakim .
` Is it the habit of the place to pester honoured guests ?
Ye crowd in like buffaloes . '
` If the Sahiba knew -- ' Kim began .
` Ai !
Ai !
Come away .
They are meat for our mistress .
When her young Shaitan 's colics are cured perhaps we poor people may be suffered to -- ' ` The mistress fed thy wife when thou wast in jail for breaking the money-lender 's head .
Who speaks against her ? '
The old servitor curled his white moustaches savagely in the young moonlight . '
I am responsible for the honour of this house .
Go ! '
and he drove the underlings before him .
Said the hakim , hardly more than shaping the words with his lips : ` How do you do , Mister O'Hara ?
I am jolly glad to see you again . '
Kim 's hand clenched about the pipe-stem .
Anywhere on the open road , perhaps , he would not have been astonished ; but here , in this quiet backwater of life , he was not prepared for Hurree Babu .
It annoyed him , too , that he had been hoodwinked .
` Ah ha !
I told you at Lucknow -- resurgam -- I shall rise again and you shall not know me .
How much did you bet -- eh ? '
He chewed leisurely upon a few cardamom seeds , but he breathed uneasily .
` But why come here , Babuji ? '
` Ah !
Thatt is the question , as Shakespeare hath it .
I come to congratulate you on your extraordinary effeecient performance at Delhi .
Oah !
I tell you we are all proud of you .
It was verree neat and handy .
Our mutual friend , he is old friend of mine .
He has been in some dam ' - tight places .
Now he will be in some more .
He told me ; I tell Mr Lurgan ; and he is pleased you graduate so nicely .
All the Department is pleased . '
For the first time in his life , Kim thrilled to the clean pride -LRB- it can be a deadly pitfall , none the less -RRB- of Departmental praise -- ensnaring praise from an equal of work appreciated by fellow-workers .
Earth has nothing on the same plane to compare with it .
But , cried the Oriental in him , Babus do not travel far to retail compliments .
` Tell thy tale , Babu , ' he said authoritatively .
` Oah , it is nothing .
Onlee I was at Simla when the wire came in about what our mutual friend said he had hidden , and old Creighton -- ' He looked to see how Kim would take this piece of audacity .
` The Colonel Sahib , ' the boy from St Xavier 's corrected .
` Of course .
He found me at a loose string , and I had to go down to Chitor to find that beastly letter .
I do not like the South -- too much railway travel ; but I drew good travelling allowance .
Ha !
Ha !
I meet our mutual at Delhi on the way back .
He lies quiett just now , and says Saddhu-disguise suits him to the ground .
Well , there I hear what you have done so well , so quickly , upon the instantaneous spur of the moment .
I tell our mutual you take the bally bun , by Jove !
It was splendid .
I come to tell you so . '
` Umm ! '
The frogs were busy in the ditches , and the moon slid to her setting .
Some happy servant had gone out to commune with the night and to beat upon a drum .
Kim 's next sentence was in the vernacular .
` How didst thou follow us ? '
` Oah .
Thatt was nothing .
I know from our mutual friend you go to Saharunpore .
So I come on .
Red Lamas are not inconspicuous persons .
I buy myself my drug-box , and I am very good doctor really .
I go to Akrola of the Ford , and hear all about you , and I talk here and talk there .
All the common people know what you do .
I knew when the hospitable old lady sent the dooli .
They have great recollections of the old lama 's visits here .
I know old ladies can not keep their hands from medicines .
So I am a doctor , and -- you hear my talk ?
I think it is verree good .
My word , Mister O'Hara , they know about you and the lama for fifty miles -- the common people .
So I come .
Do you mind ? '
` Babuji , ' said Kim , looking up at the broad , grinning face , ' I am a Sahib . '
` My dear Mister O'Hara -- ' ` And I hope to play the Great Game . '
` You are subordinate to me departmentally at present . '
` Then why talk like an ape in a tree ?
Men do not come after one from Simla and change their dress , for the sake of a few sweet words .
I am not a child .
Talk Hindi and let us get to the yolk of the egg .
Thou art here -- speaking not one word of truth in ten .
Why art thou here ?
Give a straight answer . '
` That is so verree disconcerting of the Europeans , Mister O'Hara .
You should know a heap better at your time of life . '
` But I want to know , ' said Kim , laughing .
` If it is the Game , I may help .
How can I do anything if you bukh -LSB- babble -RSB- all round the shop ? '
Hurree Babu reached for the pipe , and sucked it till it gurgled again .
` Now I will speak vernacular .
You sit tight , Mister O'Hara ... It concerns the pedigree of a white stallion . '
` Still ?
That was finished long ago . '
` When everyone is dead the Great Game is finished .
Not before .
Listen to me till the end .
There were Five Kings who prepared a sudden war three years ago , when thou wast given the stallion 's pedigree by Mahbub Ali .
Upon them , because of that news , and ere they were ready , fell our Army . '
` Ay -- eight thousand men with guns .
I remember that night . '
` But the war was not pushed .
That is the Government custom .
The troops were recalled because the Government believed the Five Kings were cowed ; and it is not cheap to feed men among the high Passes .
Hilas and Bunar -- Rajahs with guns -- undertook for a price to guard the Passes against all coming from the North .
They protested both fear and friendship . '
He broke off with a giggle into English : ` Of course , I tell you this unoffeecially to elucidate political situation , Mister O'Hara .
Offeecially , I am debarred from criticizing any action of superiors .
Now I go on .
-- This pleased the Government , anxious to avoid expense , and a bond was made for so many rupees a month that Hilas and Bunar should guard the Passes as soon as the State 's troops were withdrawn .
At that time -- it was after we two met -- I , who had been selling tea in Leh , became a clerk of accounts in the Army .
When the troops were withdrawn , I was left behind to pay the coolies who made new roads in the Hills .
This road-making was part of the bond between Bunar , Hilas , and the Government . '
` So ?
And then ? ' '
I tell you , it was jolly-beastly cold up there too , after summer , ' said Hurree Babu confidentially . '
I was afraid these Bunar men would cut my throat every night for thee pay-chest .
My native sepoy-guard , they laughed at me !
By Jove !
I was such a fearful man .
Nevar mind thatt .
I go on colloquially ... I send word many times that these two Kings were sold to the North ; and Mahbub Ali , who was yet farther North , amply confirmed it .
Nothing was done .
Only my feet were frozen , and a toe dropped off .
I sent word that the roads for which I was paying money to the diggers were being made for the feet of strangers and enemies . '
` For ? '
` For the Russians .
The thing was an open jest among the coolies .
Then I was called down to tell what I knew by speech of tongue .
Mahbub came South too .
See the end !
Over the Passes this year after snow-melting ' -- he shivered afresh -- ` come two strangers under cover of shooting wild goats .
They bear guns , but they bear also chains and levels and compasses . '
` Oho !
The thing gets clearer . '
` They are well received by Hilas and Bunar .
They make great promises ; they speak as the mouthpiece of a Kaisar with gifts .
Up the valleys , down the valleys go they , saying , `` Here is a place to build a breastwork ; here can ye pitch a fort .
Here can ye hold the road against an army '' -- the very roads for which I paid out the rupees monthly .
The Government knows , but does nothing .
The three other Kings , who were not paid for guarding the Passes , tell them by runner of the bad faith of Bunar and Hilas .
When all the evil is done , look you -- when these two strangers with the levels and the compasses make the Five Kings to believe that a great army will sweep the Passes tomorrow or the next day -- Hill-people are all fools -- comes the order to me , Hurree Babu , `` Go North and see what those strangers do . ''
I say to Creighton Sahib , `` This is not a lawsuit , that we go about to collect evidence . '' '
Hurree returned to his English with a jerk : '' ` By Jove , '' I said , `` why the dooce do you not issue demi-offeecial orders to some brave man to poison them , for an example ?
It is , if you permit the observation , most reprehensible laxity on your part . ''
And Colonel Creighton , he laughed at me !
It is all your beastly English pride .
You think no one dare conspire !
That is all tommy-rott . '
Kim smoked slowly , revolving the business , so far as he understood it , in his quick mind .
` Then thou goest forth to follow the strangers ? '
` No .
To meet them .
They are coming in to Simla to send down their horns and heads to be dressed at Calcutta .
They are exclusively sporting gentlemen , and they are allowed special faceelities by the Government .
Of course , we always do that .
It is our British pride . '
` Then what is to fear from them ? '
` By Jove , they are not black people .
I can do all sorts of things with black people , of course .
They are Russians , and highly unscrupulous people .
I -- I do not want to consort with them without a witness . '
` Will they kill thee ? '
` Oah , thatt is nothing .
I am good enough Herbert Spencerian , I trust , to meet little thing like death , which is all in my fate , you know .
But -- but they may beat me . '
` Why ? '
Hurree Babu snapped his fingers with irritation .
` Of course I shall affeeliate myself to their camp in supernumerary capacity as perhaps interpreter , or person mentally impotent and hungree , or some such thing .
And then I must pick up what I can , I suppose .
That is as easy for me as playing Mister Doctor to the old lady .
Onlee -- onlee -- you see , Mister O'Hara , I am unfortunately Asiatic , which is serious detriment in some respects .
And all-so I am Bengali -- a fearful man . '
` God made the Hare and the Bengali .
What shame ? '
said Kim , quoting the proverb .
` It was process of Evolution , I think , from Primal Necessity , but the fact remains in all the cui bono .
I am , oh , awfully fearful !
-- I remember once they wanted to cut off my head on the road to Lhassa .
-LRB- No , I have never reached to Lhassa . -RRB-
I sat down and cried , Mister O'Hara , anticipating Chinese tortures .
I do not suppose these two gentlemen will torture me , but I like to provide for possible contingency with European assistance in emergency . '
He coughed and spat out the cardamoms .
` It is purely unoffeecial indent , to which you can say `` No , Babu '' .
If you have no pressing engagement with your old man -- perhaps you might divert him ; perhaps I can seduce his fancies -- I should like you to keep in Departmental touch with me till I find those sporting coves .
I have great opeenion of you since I met my friend at Delhi .
And also I will embody your name in my offeecial report when matter is finally adjudicated .
It will be a great feather in your cap .
That is why I come really . '
` Humph !
The end of the tale , I think , is true ; but what of the fore-part ? '
` About the Five Kings ?
Oah !
there is ever so much truth in it .
A lots more than you would suppose , ' said Hurree earnestly .
` You come -- eh ?
I go from here straight into the Doon .
It is verree verdant and painted meads .
I shall go to Mussoorie to good old Munsoorie Pahar , as the gentlemen and ladies say .
Then by Rampur into Chini .
That is the only way they can come .
I do not like waiting in the cold , but we must wait for them .
I want to walk with them to Simla .
You see , one Russian is a Frenchman , and I know my French pretty well .
I have friends in Chandernagore . '
` He would certainly rejoice to see the Hills again , ' said Kim meditatively .
` All his speech these ten days past has been of little else .
If we go together -- ' ` Oah !
We can be quite strangers on the road , if your lama prefers .
I shall just be four or five miles ahead .
There is no hurry for Hurree -- that is an Europe pun , ha !
ha !
-- and you come after .
There is plenty of time ; they will plot and survey and map , of course .
I shall go tomorrow , and you the next day , if you choose .
Eh ?
You go think on it till morning .
By Jove , it is near morning now . '
He yawned ponderously , and with never a civil word lumbered off to his sleeping-place .
But Kim slept little , and his thoughts ran in Hindustani : ` Well is the Game called great !
I was four days a scullion at Quetta , waiting on the wife of the man whose book I stole .
And that was part of the Great Game !
From the South -- God knows how far -- came up the Mahratta , playing the Great Game in fear of his life .
Now I shall go far and far into the North playing the Great Game .
Truly , it runs like a shuttle throughout all Hind .
And my share and my joy ' -- he smiled to the darkness -- ' I owe to the lama here .
Also to Mahbub Ali -- also to Creighton Sahib , but chiefly to the Holy One .
He is right -- a great and a wonderful world -- and I am Kim -- Kim -- Kim -- alone -- one person -- in the middle of it all .
But I will see these strangers with their levels and chains ... ' ` What was the upshot of last night 's babble ? '
said the lama , after his orisons .
` There came a strolling seller of drugs -- a hanger-on of the Sahiba 's .
Him I abolished by arguments and prayers , proving that our charms are worthier than his coloured waters . '
` Alas , my charms !
Is the virtuous woman still bent upon a new one ? '
` Very strictly . '
` Then it must be written , or she will deafen me with her clamour . '
He fumbled at his pencase .
` In the Plains , ' said Kim , ` are always too many people .
In the Hills , as I understand , there are fewer . '
` Oh !
the Hills , and the snows upon the Hills . '
The lami tore off a tiny square of paper fit to go in an amulet .
` But what dost thou know of the Hills ? '
` They are very close . '
Kim thrust open the door and looked at the long , peaceful line of the Himalayas flushed in morning-gold .
` Except in the dress of a Sahib , I have never set foot among them . '
The lama snuffed the wind wistfully .
` If we go North , ' -- Kim put the question to the waking sunrise -- ` would not much mid-day heat be avoided by walking among the lower hills at least ?
... Is the charm made , Holy One ? ' '
I have written the names of seven silly devils -- not one of whom is worth a grain of dust in the eye .
Thus do foolish women drag us from the Way ! '
Hurree Babu came out from behind the dovecote washing his teeth with ostentatious ritual .
Full-fleshed , heavy-haunched , bull-necked , and deep-voiced , he did not look like ' a fearful man ' .
Kim signed almost imperceptibly that matters were in good train , and when the morning toilet was over , Hurree Babu , in flowery speech , came to do honour to the lama .
They ate , of course , apart , and afterwards the old lady , more or less veiled behind a window , returned to the vital business of green-mango colics in the young .
The lama 's knowledge of medicine was , of course , sympathetic only .
He believed that the dung of a black horse , mixed with sulphur , and carried in a snake-skin , was a sound remedy for cholera ; but the symbolism interested him far more than the science .
Hurree Babu deferred to these views with enchanting politeness , so that the lama called him a courteous physician .
Hurree Babu replied that he was no more than an inexpert dabbler in the mysteries ; but at least -- he thanked the Gods therefore -- he knew when he sat in the presence of a master .
He himself had been taught by the Sahibs , who do not consider expense , in the lordly halls of Calcutta ; but , as he was ever first to acknowledge , there lay a wisdom behind earthly wisdom -- the high and lonely lore of meditation .
Kim looked on with envy .
The Hurree Babu of his knowledge -- oily , effusive , and nervous -- was gone ; gone , too , was the brazen drug-vendor of overnight .
There remained -- polished , polite , attentive -- a sober , learned son of experience and adversity , gathering wisdom from the lama 's lips .
The old lady confided to Kim that these rare levels were beyond her .
She liked charms with plenty of ink that one could wash off in water , swallow , and be done with .
Else what was the use of the Gods ?
She liked men and women , and she spoke of them -- of kinglets she had known in the past ; of her own youth and beauty ; of the depredations of leopards and the eccentricities of love Asiatic ; of the incidence of taxation , rack-renting , funeral ceremonies , her son-in-law -LRB- this by allusion , easy to be followed -RRB- , the care of the young , and the age 's lack of decency .
And Kim , as interested in the life of this world as she soon to leave it , squatted with his feet under the hem of his robe , drinking all in , while the lama demolished one after another every theory of body-curing put forward by Hurree Babu .
At noon the Babu strapped up his brass-bound drug-box , took his patent-leather shoes of ceremony in one hand , a gay blue-and-white umbrella in the other , and set off northwards to the Doon , where , he said , he was in demand among the lesser kings of those parts .
` We will go in the cool of the evening , chela , ' said the lama .
` That doctor , learned in physic and courtesy , affirms that the people among these lower hills are devout , generous , and much in need of a teacher .
In a very short time -- so says the hakim -- we come to cool air and the smell of pines . '
` Ye go to the Hills ?
And by Kulu road ?
Oh , thrice happy ! '
shrilled the old lady .
` But that I am a little pressed with the care of the homestead I would take palanquin ... but that would be shameless , and my reputation would be cracked .
Ho !
Ho !
I know the road -- every march of the road I know .
Ye will find charity throughout -- it is not denied to the well-looking .
I will give orders for provision .
A servant to set you forth upon your journey ?
No ... Then I will at least cook ye good food . '
` What a woman is the Sahiba ! '
said the white-bearded Oorya , when a tumult rose by the kitchen quarters .
` She has never forgotten a friend : she has never forgotten an enemy in all her years .
And her cookery -- wah ! '
He rubbed his slim stomach .
There were cakes , there were sweetmeats , there was cold fowl stewed to rags with rice and prunes -- enough to burden Kim like a mule . '
I am old and useless , ' she said .
` None now love me -- and none respect -- but there are few to compare with me when I call on the Gods and squat to my cooking-pots .
Come again , O people of good will .
Holy One and disciple , come again .
The room is always prepared ; the welcome is always ready ... See the women do not follow thy chela too openly .
I know the women of Kulu .
Take heed , chela , lest he run away when he smells his Hills again ... Hai !
Do not tilt the rice-bag upside down ... Bless the household , Holy One , and forgive thy servant her stupidities . '
She wiped her red old eyes on a corner of her veil , and clucked throatily .
` Women talk , ' said the lama at last , ` but that is a woman 's infirmity .
I gave her a charm .
She is upon the Wheel and wholly given over to the shows of this life , but none the less , chela , she is virtuous , kindly , hospitable -- of a whole and zealous heart .
Who shall say she does not acquire merit ? '
` Not I , Holy One , ' said Kim , reslinging the bountiful provision on his shoulders .
` In my mind -- behind my eyes -- I have tried to picture such an one altogether freed from the Wheel -- desiring nothing , causing nothing -- a nun , as it were . '
` And , O imp ? '
The lama almost laughed aloud . '
I can not make the picture . '
` Nor I .
But there are many , many millions of lives before her .
She will get wisdom a little , it may be , in each one . '
` And will she forget how to make stews with saffron upon that road ? '
` Thy mind is set on things unworthy .
But she has skill .
I am refreshed all over .
When we reach the lower hills I shall be yet stronger .
The hakim spoke truly to me this morn when he said a breath from the snows blows away twenty years from the life of a man .
We will go up into the Hills -- the high hills -- up to the sound of snow-waters and the sound of the trees -- for a little while .
The hakim said that at any time we may return to the Plains , for we do no more than skirt the pleasant places .
The hakim is full of learning ; but he is in no way proud .
I spoke to him -- when thou wast talking to the Sahiba -- of a certain dizziness that lays hold upon the back of my neck in the night , and he said it rose from excessive heat -- to be cured by cool air .
Upon consideration , I marvelled that I had not thought of such a simple remedy . '
` Didst thou tell him of thy Search ? '
said Kim , a little jealously .
He preferred to sway the lama by his own speech -- not through the wiles of Hurree Babu .
` Assuredly .
I told him of my dream , and of the manner by which I had acquired merit by causing thee to be taught wisdom . '
` Thou didst not say I was a Sahib ? '
` What need ?
I have told thee many times we be but two souls seeking escape .
He said -- and he is just herein -- that the River of Healing will break forth even as I dreamed -- at my feet , if need be .
Having found the Way , seest thou , that shall free me from the Wheel , need I trouble to find a way about the mere fields of earth -- which are illusion ?
That were senseless .
I have my dreams , night upon night repeated ; I have Jataka ; and I have thee , Friend of all the World .
It was written in thy horoscope that a Red Bull on a green field -- I have not forgotten -- should bring thee to honour .
Who but I saw that prophecy accomplished ?
Indeed , I was the instrument .
Thou shalt find me my River , being in return the instrument .
The Search is sure ! '
He set his ivory-yellow face , serene and untroubled , towards the beckoning Hills ; his shadow shouldering far before him in the dust .
Chapter 13 Who hath desired the Sea -- the immense and contemptuous surges ?
The shudder , the stumble , the swerve ere the star-stabbing bowsprit merges -- The orderly clouds of the Trades and the ridged roaring sapphire thereunder -- Unheralded cliff-lurking flaws and the head-sails ' low-volleying thunder ?
His Sea in no wonder the same -- his Sea and the same in each wonder -- His Sea that his being fulfils ?
So and no otherwise -- so and no otherwise hill-men desire their hills !
The Sea and the Hills .
` Who goes to the hills goes to his mother . '
They had crossed the Siwaliks and the half-tropical Doon , left Mussoorie behind them , and headed north along the narrow hill-roads .
Day after day they struck deeper into the huddled mountains , and day after day Kim watched the lama return to a man 's strength .
Among the terraces of the Doon he had leaned on the boy 's shoulder , ready to profit by wayside halts .
Under the great ramp to Mussoorie he drew himself together as an old hunter faces a well-remembered bank , and where he should have sunk exhausted swung his long draperies about him , drew a deep double-lungful of the diamond air , and walked as only a hillman can .
Kim , plains-bred and plains-fed , sweated and panted astonished .
` This is my country , ' said the lama .
` Beside Such-zen , this is flatter than a rice-field ' ; and with steady , driving strokes from the loins he strode upwards .
But it was on the steep downhill marches , three thousand feet in three hours , that he went utterly away from Kim , whose back ached with holding back , and whose big toe was nigh cut off by his grass sandal-string .
Through the speckled shadow of the great deodar-forests ; through oak feathered and plumed with ferns ; birch , ilex , rhododendron , and pine , out on to the bare hillsides ' slippery sunburnt grass , and back into the woodlands ' coolth again , till oak gave way to bamboo and palm of the valley , the lama swung untiring .
Glancing back in the twilight at the huge ridges behind him and the faint , thin line of the road whereby they had come , he would lay out , with a hillman 's generous breadth of vision , fresh marches for the morrow ; or , halting in the neck of some uplifted pass that gave on Spiti and Kulu , would stretch out his hands yearningly towards the high snows of the horizon .
In the dawns they flared windy-red above stark blue , as Kedarnath and Badrinath -- kings of that wilderness -- took the first sunlight .
All day long they lay like molten silver under the sun , and at evening put on their jewels again .
At first they breathed temperately upon the travellers , winds good to meet when one crawled over some gigantic hog 's - back ; but in a few days , at a height of nine or ten thousand feet , those breezes bit ; and Kim kindly allowed a village of hillmen to acquire merit by giving him a rough blanket-coat .
The lama was mildly surprised that anyone should object to the knife-edged breezes which had cut the years off his shoulders .
` These are but the lower hills , chela .
There is no cold till we come to the true Hills . '
` Air and water are good , and the people are devout enough , but the food is very bad , ' Kim growled ; ` and we walk as though we were mad -- or English .
It freezes at night , too . ' '
A little , maybe ; but only enough to make old bones rejoice in the sun .
We must not always delight in soft beds and rich food . '
` We might at least keep to the road . '
Kim had all a plainsman 's affection for the well-trodden track , not six feet wide , that snaked among the mountains ; but the lama , being Tibetan , could not refrain from short cuts over spurs and the rims of gravel-strewn slopes .
As he explained to his limping disciple , a man bred among mountains can prophesy the course of a mountain-road , and though low-lying clouds might be a hindrance to a short-cutting stranger , they made no earthly difference to a thoughtful man .
Thus , after long hours of what would be reckoned very fair mountaineering in civilized countries , they would pant over a saddle-back , sidle past a few landslips , and drop through forest at an angle of forty-five onto the road again .
Along their track lay the villages of the hillfolk -- mud and earth huts , timbers now and then rudely carved with an axe -- clinging like swallows ' nests against the steeps , huddled on tiny flats half-way down a three-thousand-foot glissade ; jammed into a corner between cliffs that funnelled and focused every wandering blast ; or , for the sake of summer pasture , cowering down on a neck that in winter would be ten feet deep in snow .
And the people -- the sallow , greasy , duffle-clad people , with short bare legs and faces almost Esquimaux -- would flock out and adore .
The Plains -- kindly and gentle -- had treated the lama as a holy man among holy men .
But the Hills worshipped him as one in the confidence of all their devils .
Theirs was an almost obliterated Buddhism , overlaid with a nature-worship fantastic as their own landscapes , elaborate as the terracing of their tiny fields ; but they recognized the big hat , the clicking rosary , and the rare Chinese texts for great authority ; and they respected the man beneath the hat .
` We saw thee come down over the black Breasts of Eua , ' said a Betah who gave them cheese , sour milk , and stone-hard bread one evening .
` We do not use that often -- except when calving cows stray in summer .
There is a sudden wind among those stones that casts men down on the stillest day .
But what should such folk care for the Devil of Eua ! '
Then did Kim , aching in every fibre , dizzy with looking down , footsore with cramping desperate toes into inadequate crannies , take joy in the day 's march -- such joy as a boy of St Xavier 's who had won the quarter-mile on the flat might take in the praises of his friends .
The hills sweated the ghi and sugar suet off his bones ; the dry air , taken sobbingly at the head of cruel passes , firmed and built out his upper ribs ; and the tilted levels put new hard muscles into calf and thigh .
They meditated often on the Wheel of Life -- the more so since , as the lama said , they were freed from its visible temptations .
Except the grey eagle and an occasional far-seen bear grubbing and rooting on the hillside ; a vision of a furious painted leopard met at dawn in a still valley devouring a goat ; and now and again a bright-coloured bird , they were alone with the winds and the grass singing under the wind .
The women of the smoky huts over whose roofs the two walked as they descended the mountains , were unlovely and unclean , wives of many husbands , and afflicted with goitre .
The men were woodcutters when they were not farmers -- meek , and of an incredible simplicity .
But that suitable discourse might not fail , Fate sent them , overtaking and overtaken upon the road , the courteous Dacca physician , who paid for his food in ointments good for goitre and counsels that restore peace between men and women .
He seemed to know these hills as well as he knew the hill dialects , and gave the lama the lie of the land towards Ladakh and Tibet .
He said they could return to the Plains at any moment .
Meantime , for such as loved mountains , yonder road might amuse .
This was not all revealed in a breath , but at evening encounters on the stone threshing-floors , when , patients disposed of , the doctor would smoke and the lama snuff , while Kim watched the wee cows grazing on the housetops , or threw his soul after his eyes across the deep blue gulfs between range and range .
And there were talks apart in the dark woods , when the doctor would seek herbs , and Kim , as budding physician , must accompany him .
` You see , Mister O'Hara , I do not know what the deuce-an ' all I shall do when I find our sporting friends ; but if you will kindly keep within sight of my umbrella , which is fine fixed point for cadastral survey , I shall feel much better . '
Kim looked out across the jungle of peaks .
` This is not my country , hakim .
Easier , I think , to find one louse in a bear-skin . '
` Oah , thatt is my strong points .
There is no hurry for Hurree .
They were at Leh not so long ago .
They said they had come down from the Karakorum with their heads and horns and all .
I am onlee afraid they will have sent back all their letters and compromising things from Leh into Russian territoree .
Of course they will walk away as far to the East as possible -- just to show that they were never among the Western States .
You do not know the Hills ? '
He scratched with a twig on the earth .
` Look !
They should have come in by Srinagar or Abbottabad .
Thatt is their short road -- down the river by Bunji and Astor .
But they have made mischief in the West .
So ' -- he drew a furrow from left to right -- ` they march and they march away East to Leh -LRB- ah !
it is cold there -RRB- , and down the Indus to Hanle -LRB- I know that road -RRB- , and then down , you see , to Bushahr and Chini valley .
That is ascertained by process of elimination , and also by asking questions from people that I cure so well .
Our friends have been a long time playing about and producing impressions .
So they are well known from far off .
You will see me catch them somewhere in Chini valley .
Please keep your eye on the umbrella . '
It nodded like a wind-blown harebell down the valleys and round the mountain sides , and in due time the lama and Kim , who steered by compass , would overhaul it , vending ointments and powders at eventide .
` We came by such and such a way ! '
The lama would throw a careless finger backward at the ridges , and the umbrella would expend itself in compliments .
They crossed a snowy pass in cold moonlight , when the lama , mildly chaffing Kim , went through up to his knees , like a Bactrian camel -- the snow-bred , shag-haired sort that came into the Kashmir Serai .
They dipped across beds of light snow and snow-powdered shale , where they took refuge from a gale in a camp of Tibetans hurrying down tiny sheep , each laden with a bag of borax .
They came out upon grassy shoulders still snow-speckled , and through forest , to grass anew .
For all their marchings , Kedarnath and Badrinath were not impressed ; and it was only after days of travel that Kim , uplifted upon some insignificant ten-thousand-foot hummock , could see that a shoulder-knot or horn of the two great lords had -- ever so slightly -- changed outline .
At last they entered a world within a world -- a valley of leagues where the high hills were fashioned of a mere rubble and refuse from off the knees of the mountains .
Here one day 's march carried them no farther , it seemed , than a dreamer 's clogged pace bears him in a nightmare .
They skirted a shoulder painfully for hours , and , behold , it was but an outlying boss in an outlying buttress of the main pile !
A rounded meadow revealed itself , when they had reached it , for a vast tableland running far into the valley .
Three days later , it was a dim fold in the earth to southward .
` Surely the Gods live here ! '
said Kim , beaten down by the silence and the appalling sweep and dispersal of the cloud-shadows after rain .
` This is no place for men ! '
` Long and long ago , ' said the lama , as to himself , ` it was asked of the Lord whether the world were everlasting .
On this the Excellent One returned no answer ... When I was in Ceylon , a wise Seeker confirmed that from the gospel which is written in Pali .
Certainly , since we know the way to Freedom , the question were unprofitable , but -- look , and know illusion , chela !
These -- are the true Hills !
They are like my hills by Suchzen .
Never were such hills ! '
Above them , still enormously above them , earth towered away towards the snow-line , where from east to west across hundreds of miles , ruled as with a ruler , the last of the bold birches stopped .
Above that , in scarps and blocks upheaved , the rocks strove to fight their heads above the white smother .
Above these again , changeless since the world 's beginning , but changing to every mood of sun and cloud , lay out the eternal snow .
They could see blots and blurs on its face where storm and wandering wullie-wa got up to dance .
Below them , as they stood , the forest slid away in a sheet of blue-green for mile upon mile ; below the forest was a village in its sprinkle of terraced fields and steep grazing-grounds .
Below the village they knew , though a thunderstorm worried and growled there for the moment , a pitch of twelve or fifteen hundred feet gave to the moist valley where the streams gather that are the mothers of young Sutluj .
As usual , the lama had led Kim by cow-track and by-road , far from the main route along which Hurree Babu , that ` fearful man ' , had bucketed three days before through a storm to which nine Englishmen out of ten would have given full right of way .
Hurree was no game-shot -- the snick of a trigger made him change colour -- but , as he himself would have said , he was ` fairly effeecient stalker ' , and he had raked the huge valley with a pair of cheap binoculars to some purpose .
Moreover , the white of worn canvas tents against green carries far .
Hurree Babu had seen all he wanted to see when he sat on the threshing-floor of Ziglaur , twenty miles away as the eagle flies , and forty by road -- that is to say , two small dots which one day were just below the snow-line , and the next had moved downward perhaps six inches on the hillside .
Once cleaned out and set to the work , his fat bare legs could cover a surprising amount of ground , and this was the reason why , while Kim and the lama lay in a leaky hut at Ziglaur till the storm should be over-past , an oily , wet , but always smiling Bengali , talking the best of English with the vilest of phrases , was ingratiating himself with two sodden and rather rheumatic foreigners .
He had arrived , revolving many wild schemes , on the heels of a thunderstorm which had split a pine over against their camp , and so convinced a dozen or two forcibly impressed baggage-coolies the day was inauspicious for farther travel that with one accord they had thrown down their loads and jibbed .
They were subjects of a Hill Rajah who farmed out their services , as is the custom , for his private gain ; and , to add to their personal distresses , the strange Sahibs had already threatened them with rifles .
The most of them knew rifles and Sahibs of old : they were trackers and shikarris of the Northern valleys , keen after bear and wild goat ; but they had never been thus treated in their lives .
So the forest took them to her bosom , and , for all oaths and clamour , refused to restore .
There was no need to feign madness or -- the Babu had thought of another means of securing a welcome .
He wrung out his wet clothes , slipped on his patent-leather shoes , opened the blue-and-white umbrella , and with mincing gait and a heart beating against his tonsils appeared as ` agent for His Royal Highness , the Rajah of Rampur , gentlemen .
What can I do for you , please ? '
The gentlemen were delighted .
One was visibly French , the other Russian , but they spoke English not much inferior to the Babu 's .
They begged his kind offices .
Their native servants had gone sick at Leh .
They had hurried on because they were anxious to bring the spoils of the chase to Simla ere the skins grew moth-eaten .
They bore a general letter of introduction -LRB- the Babu salaamed to it orientally -RRB- to all Government officials .
No , they had not met any other shooting-parties en route .
They did for themselves .
They had plenty of supplies .
They only wished to push on as soon as might be .
At this he waylaid a cowering hillman among the trees , and after three minutes ' talk and a little silver -LRB- one can not be economical upon State service , though Hurree 's heart bled at the waste -RRB- the eleven coolies and the three hangers-on reappeared .
At least the Babu would be a witness to their oppression .
` My royal master , he will be much annoyed , but these people are onlee common people and grossly ignorant .
If your honours will kindly overlook unfortunate affair , I shall be much pleased .
In a little while rain will stop and we can then proceed .
You have been shooting , eh ?
That is fine performance ! '
He skipped nimbly from one kilta to the next , making pretence to adjust each conical basket .
The Englishman is not , as a rule , familiar with the Asiatic , but he would not strike across the wrist a kindly Babu who had accidentally upset a kilta with a red oilskin top .
On the other hand , he would not press drink upon a Babu were he never so friendly , nor would he invite him to meat .
The strangers did all these things , and asked many questions -- about women mostly -- to which Hurree returned gay and unstudied answers .
They gave him a glass of whitish fluid like to gin , and then more ; and in a little time his gravity departed from him .
He became thickly treasonous , and spoke in terms of sweeping indecency of a Government which had forced upon him a white man 's education and neglected to supply him with a white man 's salary .
He babbled tales of oppression and wrong till the tears ran down his cheeks for the miseries of his land .
Then he staggered off , singing love-songs of Lower Bengal , and collapsed upon a wet tree-trunk .
Never was so unfortunate a product of English rule in India more unhappily thrust upon aliens .
` They are all just of that pattern , ' said one sportsman to the other in French .
` When we get into India proper thou wilt see .
I should like to visit his Rajah .
One might speak the good word there .
It is possible that he has heard of us and wishes to signify his good-will . '
` We have not time .
We must get into Simla as soon as may be , ' his companion replied .
` For my own part , I wish our reports had been sent back from Hilas , or even Leh . '
` The English post is better and safer .
Remember we are given all facilities -- and Name of God !
-- they give them to us too !
Is it unbelievable stupidity ? '
` It is pride -- pride that deserves and will receive punishment . '
` Yes !
To fight a fellow-Continental in our game is something .
There is a risk attached , but these people -- bah !
It is too easy . '
` Pride -- all pride , my friend . '
` Now what the deuce is good of Chandernagore being so close to Calcutta and all , ' said Hurree , snoring open-mouthed on the sodden moss , ` if I can not understand their French ?
They talk so particularly fast !
It would have been much better to cut their beastly throats . '
When he presented himself again he was racked with a headache -- penitent , and volubly afraid that in his drunkenness he might have been indiscreet .
He loved the British Government -- it was the source of all prosperity and honour , and his master at Rampur held the very same opinion .
Upon this the men began to deride him and to quote past words , till step by step , with deprecating smirks , oily grins , and leers of infinite cunning , the poor Babu was beaten out of his defences and forced to speak -- truth .
When Lurgan was told the tale later , he mourned aloud that he could not have been in the place of the stubborn , inattentive coolies , who with grass mats over their heads and the raindrops puddling in their footprints , waited on the weather .
All the Sahibs of their acquaintance -- rough-clad men joyously returning year after year to their chosen gullies -- had servants and cooks and orderlies , very often hillmen .
These Sahibs travelled without any retinue .
Therefore they were poor Sahibs , and ignorant ; for no Sahib in his senses would follow a Bengali 's advice .
But the Bengali , appearing from somewhere , had given them money , and could make shift with their dialect .
Used to comprehensive ill-treatment from their own colour , they suspected a trap somewhere , and stood by to run if occasion offered .
Then through the new-washed air , steaming with delicious earth-smells , the Babu led the way down the slopes -- walking ahead of the coolies in pride ; walking behind the foreigners in humility .
His thoughts were many and various .
The least of them would have interested his companions beyond words .
But he was an agreeable guide , ever keen to point out the beauties of his royal master 's domain .
He peopled the hills with anything thev had a mind to slay -- thar , ibex , or markhor , and bear by Elisha 's allowance .
He discoursed of botany and ethnology with unimpeachable inaccuracy , and his store of local legends -- he had been a trusted agent of the State for fifteen years , remember -- was inexhaustible .
` Decidedly this fellow is an original , ' said the taller of the two foreigners .
` He is like the nightmare of a Viennese courier . '
` He represents in little India in transition -- the monstrous hybridism of East and West , ' the Russian replied .
` It is we who can deal with Orientals . '
` He has lost his own country and has not acquired any other .
But he has a most complete hatred of his conquerors .
Listen .
He confided to me last night , ' said the other .
Under the striped umbrella Hurree Babu was straining ear and brain to follow the quick-poured French , and keeping both eyes on a kilta full of maps and documents -- an extra-large one with a double red oil-skin cover .
He did not wish to steal anything .
He only desired to know what to steal , and , incidentally , how to get away when he had stolen it .
He thanked all the Gods of Hindustan , and Herbert Spencer , that there remained some valuables to steal .
On the second day the road rose steeply to a grass spur above the forest ; and it was here , about sunset , that they came across an aged lama -- but they called him a bonze -- sitting cross-legged above a mysterious chart held down by stones , which he was explaining to a young man , evidently a neophyte , of singular , though unwashen , beauty .
The striped umbrella had been sighted half a march away , and Kim had suggested a halt till it came up to them .
` Ha ! '
said Hurree Babu , resourceful as Puss-in-Boots .
` That is eminent local holy man .
Probably subject of my royal master . '
` What is he doing ?
It is very curious . '
` He is expounding holy picture -- all hand-worked . '
The two men stood bareheaded in the wash of the afternoon sunlight low across the gold-coloured grass .
The sullen coolies , glad of the check , halted and slid down their loads .
` Look ! '
said the Frenchman .
` It is like a picture for the birth of a religion -- the first teacher and the first disciple .
Is he a Buddhist ? '
` Of some debased kind , ' the other answered .
` There are no true Buddhists among the Hills .
But look at the folds of the drapery .
Look at his eyes -- how insolent !
Why does this make one feel that we are so young a people ? '
The speaker struck passionately at a tall weed .
` We have nowhere left our mark yet .
Nowhere !
That , do you understand , is what disquiets me . '
He scowled at the placid face , and the monumental calm of the pose .
` Have patience .
We shall make your mark together -- we and you young people .
Meantime , draw his picture . '
The Babu advanced loftily ; his back out of all keeping with his deferential speech , or his wink towards Kim .
` Holy One , these be Sahibs .
My medicines cured one of a flux , and I go into Simla to oversee his recovery .
They wish to see thy picture -- ' ` To heal the sick is always good .
This is the Wheel of Life , ' said the lama , ` the same I showed thee in the hut at Ziglaur when the rain fell . '
` And to hear thee expound it . '
The lama 's eyes lighted at the prospect of new listeners .
` To expound the Most Excellent Way is good .
Have they any knowledge of Hindi , such as had the Keeper of Images ? ' '
A little , maybe . '
Hereat , simply as a child engrossed with a new game , the lama threw back his head and began the full-throated invocation of the Doctor of Divinity ere he opens the full doctrine .
The strangers leaned on their alpenstocks and listened .
Kim , squatting humbly , watched the red sunlight on their faces , and the blend and parting of their long shadows .
They wore un-English leggings and curious girt-in belts that reminded him hazily of the pictures in a book in St Xavier 's library `` The Adventures of a Young Naturalist in Mexico '' was its name .
Yes , they looked very like the wonderful M. Sumichrast of that tale , and very unlike the ` highly unscrupulous folk ' of Hurree Babu 's imagining .
The coolies , earth-coloured and mute , crouched reverently some twenty or thirty yards away , and the Babu , the slack of his thin gear snapping like a marking-flag in the chill breeze , stood by with an air of happy proprietorship .
` These are the men , ' Hurree whispered , as the ritual went on and the two whites followed the grass-blade sweeping from Hell to Heaven and back again .
` All their books are in the large kilta with the reddish top -- books and reports and maps -- and I have seen a King 's letter that either Hilas or Bunar has written .
They guard it most carefully .
They have sent nothing back from Hilas or Leh .
That is sure . '
` Who is with them ? '
` Only the beegar-coolies .
They have no servants .
They are so close they cook their own food . '
` But what am I to do ? '
` Wait and see .
Only if any chance comes to me thou wilt know where to seek for the papers . '
` This were better in Mahbub Ali 's hands than a Bengali 's , ' said Kim scornfully .
` There are more ways of getting to a sweetheart than butting down a wall . '
` See here the Hell appointed for avarice and greed .
Flanked upon the one side by Desire and on the other by Weariness . '
The lama warmed to his work , and one of the strangers sketched him in the quick-fading light .
` That is enough , ' the man said at last brusquely . '
I can not understand him , but I want that picture .
He is a better artist than I. Ask him if he will sell it . '
` He says `` No , sar , '' ' the Babu replied .
The lama , of course , would no more have parted with his chart to a casual wayfarer than an archbishop would pawn the holy vessels of his cathedral .
All Tibet is full of cheap reproductions of the Wheel ; but the lama was an artist , as well as a wealthy Abbot in his own place .
` Perhaps in three days , or four , or ten , if I perceive that the Sahib is a Seeker and of good understanding , I may myself draw him another .
But this was used for the initiation of a novice .
Tell him so , hakim . '
` He wishes it now -- for money . '
The lama shook his head slowly and began to fold up the Wheel .
The Russian , on his side , saw no more than an unclean old man haggling over a dirty piece of paper .
He drew out a handful of rupees , and snatched half-jestingly at the chart , which tore in the lama 's grip .
A low murmur of horror went up from the coolies -- some of whom were Spiti men and , by their lights , good Buddhists .
The lama rose at the insult ; his hand went to the heavy iron pencase that is the priest 's weapon , and the Babu danced in agony .
` Now you see -- you see why I wanted witnesses .
They are highly unscrupulous people .
Oh , sar !
sar !
You must not hit holyman ! '
` Chela !
He has defiled the Written Word ! '
It was too late .
Before Kim could ward him off , the Russian struck the old man full on the face .
Next instant he was rolling over and over downhill with Kim at his throat .
The blow had waked every unknown Irish devil in the boy 's blood , and the sudden fall of his enemy did the rest .
The lama dropped to his knees , half-stunned ; the coolies under their loads fled up the hill as fast as plainsmen run aross the level .
They had seen sacrilege unspeakable , and it behoved them to get away before the Gods and devils of the hills took vengeance .
The Frenchman ran towards the lama , fumbling at his revolver with some notion of making him a hostage for his companion .
A shower of cutting stones -- hillmen are very straight shots -- drove him away , and a coolie from Ao-chung snatched the lama into the stampede .
All came about as swiftly as the sudden mountain-darkness .
` They have taken the baggage and all the guns , ' yelled the Frenchman , firing blindly into the twilight .
` All right , sar !
All right !
Do n't shoot .
I go to rescue , ' and Hurree , pounding down the slope , cast himself bodily upon the delighted and astonished Kim , who was banging his breathless foe 's head against a boulder .
` Go back to the coolies , ' whispered the Babu in his ear .
` They have the baggage .
The papers are in the kilta with the red top , but look through all .
Take their papers , and specially the murasla -LSB- King 's letter -RSB- .
Go !
The other man comes ! '
Kim tore uphill .
A revolver-bullet rang on a rock by his side , and he cowered partridge-wise .
` If you shoot , ' shouted Hurree , ` they will descend and annihilate us .
I have rescued the gentleman , sar .
This is particularly dangerous . '
` By Jove ! '
Kim was thinking hard in English .
` This is dam ' - tight place , but I think it is self-defence . '
He felt in his bosom for Mahbub 's gift , and uncertainly -- save for a few practice shots in the Bikanir desert , he had never used the little gun -- pulled the trigger .
` What did I say , sar ! '
The Babu seemed to be in tears .
` Come down here and assist to resuscitate .
We are all up a tree , I tell you . '
The shots ceased .
There was a sound of stumbling feet , and Kim hurried upward through the gloom , swearing like a cat -- or a country-bred .
` Did they wound thee , chela ? '
called the lama above him .
` No .
And thou ? '
He dived into a clump of stunted firs .
` Unhurt .
Come away .
We go with these folk to Shamlegh-under-the-Snow . '
` But not before we have done justice , ' a voice cried . '
I have got the Sahibs ' guns -- all four .
Let us go down . '
` He struck the Holy One -- we saw it !
Our cattle will be barren -- our wives will cease to bear !
The snows will slide upon us as we go home ... Atop of all other oppression too ! '
The little fir-clump filled with clamouring coolies -- panic-stricken , and in their terror capable of anything .
The man from Ao-chung clicked the breech-bolt of his gun impatiently , and made as to go downhill .
` Wait a little , Holy One ; they can not go far .
Wait till I return , ' said he .
` It is this person who has suffered wrong , ' said the lama , his hand over his brow .
` For that very reason , ' was the reply .
` If this person overlooks it , your hands are clean .
Moreover , ye acquire merit by obedience . '
` Wait , and we will all go to Shamlegh together , ' the man insisted .
For a moment , for just so long as it needs to stuff a cartridge into a breech-loader , the lama hesitated .
Then he rose to his feet , and laid a finger on the man 's shoulder .
` Hast thou heard ?
I say there shall be no killing -- I who was Abbot of Such-zen .
Is it any lust of thine to be re-born as a rat , or a snake under the eaves -- a worm in the belly of the most mean beast ?
Is it thy wish to -- ' The man from Ao-chung fell to his knees , for the voice boomed like a Tibetan devil-gong .
` Ai !
ai ! '
cried the Spiti men .
` Do not curse us -- do not curse him .
It was but his zeal , Holy One !
... Put down the rifle , fool ! '
` Anger on anger !
Evil on evil !
There will be no killing .
Let the priest-beaters go in bondage to their own acts .
Just and sure is the Wheel , swerving not a hair !
They will be born many times -- in torment . '
His head drooped , and he leaned heavily on Kim 's shoulder . '
I have come near to great evil , chela , ' he whispered in that dead hush under the pines . '
I was tempted to loose the bullet ; and truly , in Tibet there would have been a heavy and a slow death for them ... He struck me across the face ... upon the flesh ... ' He slid to the ground , breathing heavily , and Kim could hear the over-driven heart bump and check .
` Have they hurt him to the death ? '
said the Ao-chung man , while the others stood mute .
Kim knelt over the body in deadly fear .
` Nay , ' he cried passionately , ` this is only a weakness . '
Then he remembered that he was a white man , with a white man 's camp-fittings at his service .
` Open the kiltas !
The Sahibs may have a medicine . '
` Oho !
Then I know it , ' said the Ao-chung man with a laugh .
` Not for five years was I Yankling Sahib 's shikarri without knowing that medicine .
I too have tasted it .
Behold ! '
He drew from his breast a bottle of cheap whisky -- such as is sold to explorers at Leh -- and cleverly forced a little between the lama 's teeth .
` So I did when Yankling Sahib twisted his foot beyond Astor .
Aha !
I have already looked into their baskets -- but we will make fair division at Shamlegh .
Give him a little more .
It is good medicine .
Feel !
His heart goes better now .
Lay his head down and rub a little on the chest .
If he had waited quietly while I accounted for the Sahibs this would never have come .
But perhaps the Sahibs may chase us here .
Then it would not be wrong to shoot them with their own guns , heh ? '
` One is paid , I think , already , ' said Kim between his teeth . '
I kicked him in the groin as we went downhill .
Would I had killed him ! '
` It is well to be brave when one does not live in Rampur , ' said one whose hut lay within a few miles of the Rajah 's rickety palace .
` If we get a bad name among the Sahibs , none will employ us as shikarris any more . '
` Oh , but these are not Angrezi Sahibs -- not merry-minded men like Fostum Sahib or Yankling Sahib .
They are foreigners -- they can not speak Angrezi as do Sahibs . '
Here the lama coughed and sat up , groping for the rosary .
` There shall be no killing , ' he murmured .
` Just is the Wheel !
Evil on evil -- ' ` Nay , Holy One .
We are all here . '
The Ao-chung man timidly patted his feet .
` Except by thy order , no one shall be slain .
Rest awhile .
We will make a little camp here , and later , as the moon rises , we go to Shamlegh-under-the-Snow . '
` After a blow , ' said a Spiti man sententiously , ` it is best to sleep . '
` There is , as it were , a dizziness at the back of my neck , and a pinching in it .
Let me lay my head on thy lap , chela .
I am an old man , but not free from passion ... We must think of the Cause of Things . '
` Give him a blanket .
We dare not light a fire lest the Sahibs see . '
` Better get away to Shamlegh .
None will follow us to Shamlegh . '
This was the nervous Rampur man . '
I have been Fostum Sahib 's shikarri , and I am Yankling Sahib 's shikarri .
I should have been with Yankling Sahib now but for this cursed beegar -LSB- the corvee -RSB- .
Let two men watch below with the guns lest the Sahibs do more foolishness .
I shall not leave this Holy One . '
They sat down a little apart from the lama , and , after listening awhile , passed round a water-pipe whose receiver was an old Day and Martin blacking-bottle .
The glow of the red charcoal as it went from hand to hand lit up the narrow , blinking eyes , the high Chinese cheek-bones , and the bull-throats that melted away into the dark duffle folds round the shoulders .
They looked like kobolds from some magic mine -- gnomes of the hills in conclave .
And while they talked , the voices of the snow-waters round them diminished one by one as the night-frost choked and clogged the runnels .
` How he stood up against us ! '
said a Spiti man admiring . '
I remember an old ibex , out Ladakh-way , that Dupont Sahib missed on a shoulder-shot , seven seasons back , standing up just like him .
Dupont Sahib was a good shikarri . '
` Not as good as Yankling Sahib . '
The Ao-chung man took a pull at the whisky-bottle and passed it over .
` Now hear me -- unless any other man thinks he knows more . '
The challenge was not taken up .
` We go to Shamlegh when the moon rises .
There we will fairly divide the baggage between us .
I am content with this new little rifle and all its cartridges . '
` Are the bears only bad on thy holding ?
said a mate , sucking at the pipe .
` No ; but musk-pods are worth six rupees apiece now , and thy women can have the canvas of the tents and some of the cooking-gear .
We will do all that at Shamlegh before dawn .
Then we all go our ways , remembering that we have never seen or taken service with these Sahibs , who may , indeed , say that we have stolen their baggage . '
` That is well for thee , but what will our Rajah say ? '
` Who is to tell him ?
Those Sahibs , who can not speak our talk , or the Babu , who for his own ends gave us money ?
Will he lead an army against us ?
What evidence will remain ?
That we do not need we shall throw on Shamlegh-midden , where no man has yet set foot . '
` Who is at Shamlegh this summer ? '
The place was only a grazing centre of three or four huts . '
` The Woman of Shamlegh .
She has no love for Sahibs , as we know .
The others can be pleased with little presents ; and here is enough for us all . '
He patted the fat sides of the nearest basket .
` But -- but -- ' ' I have said they are not true Sahibs .
All their skins and heads were bought in the bazar at Leh .
I know the marks .
I showed them to ye last march . '
` True .
They were all bought skins and heads .
Some had even the moth in them . '
That was a shrewd argument , and the Ao-chung man knew his fellows .
` If the worst comes to the worst , I shall tell Yankling Sahib , who is a man of a merry mind , and he will laugh .
We are not doing any wrong to any Sahibs whom we know .
They are priest-beaters .
They frightened us .
We fled !
Who knows where we dropped the baggage ?
Do ye think Yankling Sahib will permit down-country police to wander all over the hills , disturbing his game ?
It is a far cry from Simla to Chini , and farther from Shamlegh to Shamlegh-midden . '
` So be it , but I carry the big kilta .
The basket with the red top that the Sahibs pack themselves every morning . '
` Thus it is proved , ' said the Shamlegh man adroitly , ` that they are Sahibs of no account .
Who ever heard of Fostum Sahib , or Yankling Sahib , or even the little Peel Sahib that sits up of nights to shoot serow -- I say , who , ever heard of these Sahibs coming into the hills without a down-country cook , and a bearer , and -- and all manner of well-paid , high-handed and oppressive folk in their tail ?
How can they make trouble ?
What of the kilta ? '
` Nothing , but that it is full of the Written Word -- books and papers in which they wrote , and strange instruments , as of worship . '
` Shamlegh-midden will take them all . '
` True !
But how if we insult the Sahibs ' Gods thereby !
I do not like to handle the Written Word in that fashion .
And their brass idols are beyond my comprehension .
It is no plunder for simple hill-folk . '
` The old man still sleeps .
Hst !
We will ask his chela . '
The Ao-chung man refreshed himself , and swelled with pride of leadership .
` We have here , ' he whispered , ' a kilta whose nature we do not know . '
` But I do , ' said Kim cautiously .
The lama drew breath in natural , easy sleep , and Kim had been thinking of Hurree 's last words .
As a player of the Great Game , he was disposed just then to reverence the Babu .
` It is a kilta with a red top full of very wonderful things , not to be handled by fools . ' '
I said it ; I said it , ' cried the bearer of that burden .
` Thinkest thou it will betray us ? '
` Not if it be given to me .
I can draw out its magic .
Otherwise it will do great harm . ' '
A priest always takes his share . '
Whisky was demoralizing the Ao-chung man .
` It is no matter to me . '
Kim answered , with the craft of his mother-country .
` Share it among you , and see what comes ! '
` Not I. I was only jesting .
Give the order .
There is more than enough for us all .
We go our way from Shamlegh in the dawn . '
They arranged and re-arranged their artless little plans for another hour , while Kim shivered with cold and pride .
The humour of the situation tickled the Irish and the Oriental in his soul .
Here were the emissaries of the dread Power of the North , very possibly as great in their own land as Mahbub or Colonel Creighton , suddenly smitten helpless .
One of them , he privately knew , would be lame for a time .
They had made promises to Kings .
Tonight they lay out somewhere below him , chartless , foodless , tentless , gunless -- except for Hurree Babu , guideless .
And this collapse of their Great Game -LRB- Kim wondered to whom they would report it -RRB- , this panicky bolt into the night , had come about through no craft of Hurree 's or contrivance of Kim 's , but simply , beautifully , and inevitably as the capture of Mahbub 's fakir-friends by the zealous young policeman at Umballa .
` They are there -- with nothing ; and , by Jove , it is cold !
I am here with all their things .
Oh , they will be angry !
I am sorry for Hurree Babu . '
Kim might have saved his pity , for though at that moment the Bengali suffered acutely in the flesh , his soul was puffed and lofty .
A mile down the hill , on the edge of the pine-forest , two half-frozen men -- one powerfully sick at intervals -- were varying mutual recriminations with the most poignant abuse of the Babu , who seemed distraught with terror .
They demanded a plan of action .
He explained that they were very lucky to be alive ; that their coolies , if not then stalking them , had passed beyond recall ; that the Rajah , his master , was ninety miles away , and , so far from lending them money and a retinue for the Simla journey , would surely cast them into prison if he heard that they had hit a priest .
He enlarged on this sin and its consequences till they bade him change the subject .
Their one hope , said he , was unostentatious flight from village to village till they reached civilization ; and , for the hundredth time dissolved in tears , he demanded of the high stars why the Sahibs ` had beaten holy man ' .
Ten steps would have taken Hurree into the creaking gloom utterly beyond their reach -- to the shelter and food of the nearest village , where glib-tongued doctors were scarce .
But he preferred to endure cold , belly-pinch , bad words , and occasional blows in the company of his honoured employers .
Crouched against a tree-trunk , he sniffed dolefully .
` And have you thought , ' said the uninjured man hotly , ` what sort of spectacle we shall present wandering through these hills among these aborigines ? '
Hurree Babu had thought of little else for some hours , but the remark was not to his address .
` We can not wander !
I can hardly walk , ' groaned Kim 's victim .
` Perhaps the holy man will be merciful in loving-kindness , sar , otherwise -- ' ' I promise myself a peculiar pleasure in emptying my revolver into that young bonze when next we meet , ' was the unchristian answer .
` Revolvers !
Vengeance !
Bonzes ! '
Hurree crouched lower .
The war was breaking out afresh .
` Have you no consideration for our loss ?
The baggage !
The baggage ! '
He could hear the speaker literally dancing on the grass .
` Everything we bore !
Everything we have secured !
Our gains !
Eight months ' work !
Do you know what that means ?
`` Decidedly it is we who can deal with Orientals ! ''
Oh , you have done well . '
They fell to it in several tongues , and Hurree smiled .
Kim was with the kiltas , and in the kiltas lay eight months of good diplomacy .
There was no means of communicating with the boy , but he could be trusted .
For the rest , Hurree could so stage-manage the journey through the hills that Hilas , Bunar , and four hundred miles of hill-roads should tell the tale for a generation .
Men who can not control their own coolies are little respected in the Hills , and the hillman has a very keen sense of humour .
` If I had done it myself , ' thought Hurree , ` it would not have been better ; and , by Jove , now I think of it , of course I arranged it myself .
How quick I have been !
Just when I ran downhill I thought it !
Thee outrage was accidental , but onlee me could have worked it -- ah -- for all it was dam ' - well worth .
Consider the moral effect upon these ignorant peoples !
No treaties -- no papers -- no written documents at all -- and me to interpret for them .
How I shall laugh with the Colonel !
I wish I had their papers also : but you can not occupy two places in space simultaneously .
Thatt is axiomatic . '
Chapter 14 My brother kneels -LRB- so saith Kabir -RRB- To stone and brass in heathen wise , But in my brother 's voice I hear My own unanswered agonies .
His God is as his Fates assign -- His prayer is all the world 's -- and mine .
The Prayer .
At moonrise the cautious coolies got under way .
The lama , refreshed by his sleep and the spirit , needed no more than Kim 's shoulder to bear him along -- a silent , swift-striding man .
They held the shale-sprinkled grass for an hour , swept round the shoulder of an immortal cliff , and climbed into a new country entirely blocked off from all sight of Chini valley .
A huge pasture-ground ran up fan-shaped to the living snow .
At its base was perhaps half an acre of flat land , on which stood a few soil and timber huts .
Behind them -- for , hill-fashion , they were perched on the edge of all things -- the ground fell sheer two thousand feet to Shamlegh-midden , where never yet man has set foot .
The men made no motion to divide the plunder till they had seen the lama bedded down in the best room of the place , with Kim shampooing his feet , Mohammedan-fashion .
` We will send food , ' said the Ao-chung man , ` and the red-topped kilta .
By dawn there will be none to give evidence , one way or the other .
If anything is not needed in the kilta -- see here ! '
He pointed through the window -- opening into space that was filled with moonlight reflected from the snow -- and threw out an empty whisky-bottle .
` No need to listen for the fall .
This is the world 's end , ' he said , and went out .
The lama looked forth , a hand on either sill , with eyes that shone like yellow opals .
From the enormous pit before him white peaks lifted themselves yearning to the moonlight .
The rest was as the darkness of interstellar space .
` These , ' he said slowly , ` are indeed my Hills .
Thus should a man abide , perched above the world , separated from delights , considering vast matters . '
` Yes ; if he has a chela to prepare tea for him , and to fold a blanket for his head , and to chase out calving cows . '
A smoky lamp burned in a niche , but the full moonlight beat it down ; and by the mixed light , stooping above the food-bag and cups , Kim moved like a tall ghost .
` Ai !
But now I have let the blood cool , my head still beats and drums , and there is a cord round the back of my neck . '
` No wonder .
It was a strong blow .
May he who dealt it -- ' ` But for my own passions there would have been no evil . '
` What evil ?
Thou hast saved the Sahibs from the death they deserved a hundred times . '
` The lesson is not well learnt , chela . '
The lama came to rest on a folded blanket , as Kim went forward with his evening routine .
` The blow was but a shadow upon a shadow .
Evil in itself -- my legs weary apace these latter days !
-- it met evil in me : anger , rage , and a lust to return evil .
These wrought in my blood , woke tumult in my stomach , and dazzled my ears . '
Here he drank scalding black-tea ceremonially , taking the hot cup from Kim 's hand .
` Had I been passionless , the evil blow would have done only bodily evil -- a scar , or a bruise -- which is illusion .
But my mind was not abstracted , for rushed in straightway a lust to let the Spiti men kill .
In fighting that lust , my soul was torn and wrenched beyond a thousand blows .
Not till I had repeated the Blessings ' -LRB- he meant the Buddhist Beatitudes -RRB- ` did I achieve calm .
But the evil planted in me by that moment 's carelessness works out to its end .
Just is the Wheel , swerving not a hair !
Learn the lesson , chela . '
` It is too high for me , ' Kim muttered . '
I am still all shaken .
I am glad I hurt the man . ' '
I felt that , sleeping upon thy knees , in the wood below .
It disquieted me in my dreams -- the evil in thy soul working through to mine .
Yet on the other hand ' -- he loosed his rosary -- ' I have acquired merit by saving two lives -- the lives of those that wronged me .
Now I must see into the Cause of Things .
The boat of my soul staggers . '
` Sleep , and be strong .
That is wisest . ' '
I meditate .
There is a need greater than thou knowest . '
Till the dawn , hour after hour , as the moonlight paled on the high peaks , and that which had been belted blackness on the sides of the far hills showed as tender green forest , the lama stared fixedly at the wall .
From time to time he groaned .
Outside the barred door , where discomfited kine came to ask for their old stable , Shamlegh and the coolies gave itself up to plunder and riotous living .
The Ao-chung man was their leader , and once they had opened the Sahibs ' tinned foods and found that they were very good they dared not turn back .
Shamlegh kitchen-midden took the dunnage .
When Kim , after a night of bad dreams , stole forth to brush his teeth in the morning chill , a fair-coloured woman with turquoise-studded headgear drew him aside .
` The others have gone .
They left thee this kilta as the promise was .
I do not love Sahibs , but thou wilt make us a charm in return for it .
We do not wish little Shamlegh to get a bad name on account of the -- accident .
I am the Woman of Shamlegh . '
She looked him over with bold , bright eyes , unlike the usual furtive glance of hillwomen .
` Assuredly .
But it must be done in secret . '
She raised the heavy kilta like a toy and slung it into her own hut .
` Out and bar the door !
Let none come near till it is finished , ' said Kim .
` But afterwards -- we may talk ? '
Kim tilted the kilta on the floor -- a cascade of Survey-instruments , books , diaries , letters , maps , and queerly scented native correspondence .
At the very bottom was an embroidered bag covering a sealed , gilded , and illuminated document such as one King sends to another .
Kim caught his breath with delight , and reviewed the situation from a Sahib 's point of view .
` The books I do not want .
Besides , they are logarithms -- Survey , I suppose . '
He laid them aside .
` The letters I do not understand , but Colonel Creighton will .
They must all be kept .
The maps -- they draw better maps than me -- of course .
All the native letters -- oho !
-- and particularly the murasla . '
He sniffed the embroidered bag .
` That must be from Hilas or Bunar , and Hurree Babu spoke truth .
By Jove !
It is a fine haul .
I wish Hurree could know ... The rest must go out of the window . '
He fingered a superb prismatic compass and the shiny top of a theodolite .
But after all , a Sahib can not very well steal , and the things might be inconvenient evidence later .
He sorted out every scrap of manuscript , every map , and the native letters .
They made one softish slab .
The three locked ferril-backed books , with five worn pocket-books , he put aside .
` The letters and the murasla I must carry inside my coat and under my belt , and the hand-written books I must put into the food-bag .
It will be very heavy .
No .
I do not think there is anything more .
If there is , the coolies have thrown it down the khud , so thatt is all right .
Now you go too . '
He repacked the kilta with all he meant to lose , and hove it up on to the windowsill .
A thousand feet below lay a long , lazy , round-shouldered bank of mist , as yet untouched by the morning sun .
A thousand feet below that was a hundred-year-old pine-forest .
He could see the green tops looking like a bed of moss when a wind-eddy thinned the cloud .
` No !
I do n't think any one will go after you ! '
The wheeling basket vomited its contents as it dropped .
The theodolite hit a jutting cliff-ledge and exploded like a shell ; the books , inkstands , paint-boxes , compasses , and rulers showed for a few seconds like a swarm of bees .
Then they vanished ; and , though Kim , hanging half out of the window , strained his young ears , never a sound came up from the gulf .
` Five hundred -- a thousand rupees could not buy them , ' he thought sorrowfully .
` It was verree wasteful , but I have all their other stuff -- everything they did -- I hope .
Now how the deuce am I to tell Hurree Babu , and whatt the deuce am I to do ?
And my old man is sick .
I must tie up the letters in oilskin .
That is something to do first -- else they will get all sweated ... And I am all alone ! '
He bound them into a neat packet , swedging down the stiff , sticky oilskin at the comers , for his roving life had made him as methodical as an old hunter in matters of the road .
Then with double care he packed away the books at the bottom of the food-bag .
The woman rapped at the door .
` But thou hast made no charm , ' she said , looking about .
` There is no need . '
Kim had completely overlooked the necessity for a little patter-talk .
The woman laughed at his confusion irreverently .
` None -- for thee .
Thou canst cast a spell by the mere winking of an eye .
But think of us poor people when thou art gone .
They were all too drunk last night to hear a woman .
Thou art not drunk ? ' '
I am a priest . '
Kim had recovered himself , and , the woman being aught but unlovely , thought best to stand on his office . '
I warned them that the Sahibs will be angry and will make an inquisition and a report to the Rajah .
There is also the Babu with them .
Clerks have long tongues . '
` Is that all thy trouble ? '
The plan rose fully formed in Kim 's mind , and he smiled ravishingly .
` Not all , ' quoth the woman , putting out a hard brown hand all covered with turquoises set in silver . '
I can finish that in a breath , ' he went on quickly .
` The Babu is the very hakim -LRB- thou hast heard of him ? -RRB-
who was wandering among the hills by Ziglaur .
I know him . '
` He will tell for the sake of a reward .
Sahibs can not distinguish one hillman from another , but Babus have eyes for men -- and women . '
` Carry a word to him from me . '
` There is nothing I would not do for thee . '
He accepted the compliment calmly , as men must in lands where women make the love , tore a leaf from a note-book , and with a patent indelible pencil wrote in gross Shikast -- the script that bad little boys use when they write dirt on walls : ' I have everything that they have written : their pictures of the country , and many letters .
Especially the murasla .
Tell me what to do .
I am at Shamlegh-under-the-Snow .
The old man is sick . '
` Take this to him .
It will altogether shut his mouth .
He can not have gone far . '
` Indeed no .
They are still in the forest across the spur .
Our children went to watch them when the light came , and have cried the news as they moved . '
Kim looked his astonishment ; but from the edge of the sheep-pasture floated a shrill , kite-like trill .
A child tending cattle had picked it up from a brother or sister on the far side of the slope that commanded Chini valley .
` My husbands are also out there gathering wood . '
She drew a handful of walnuts from her bosom , split one neatly , and began to eat .
Kim affected blank ignorance .
` Dost thou not know the meaning of the walnut -- priest ? '
she said coyly , and handed him the half-shells .
` Well thought of . '
He slipped the piece of paper between them quickly .
` Hast thou a little wax to close them on this letter ? '
The woman sighed aloud , and Kim relented .
` There is no payment till service has been rendered .
Carry this to the Babu , and say it was sent by the Son of the Charm . '
` Ai !
Truly !
Truly !
By a magician -- who is like a Sahib . '
` Nay , a Son of the Charm : and ask if there be any answer . '
` But if he offer a rudeness ?
I -- I am afraid . '
Kim laughed .
` He is , I have no doubt , very tired and very hungry .
The Hills make cold bedfellows .
Hai , my ' -- it was on the tip of his tongue to say Mother , but he turned it to Sister -- ` thou art a wise and witty woman .
By this time all the villages know what has befallen the Sahibs -- eh ? '
` True .
News was at Ziglaur by midnight , and by tomorrow should be at Kotgarh .
The villages are both afraid and angry . '
` No need .
Tell the villages to feed the Sahibs and pass them on , in peace .
We must get them quietly away from our valleys .
To steal is one thing -- to kill another .
The Babu will understand , and there will be no after-complaints .
Be swift .
I must tend my master when he wakes . '
` So be it .
After service -- thou hast said ?
-- comes the reward .
I am the Woman of Shamlegh , and I hold from the Rajah .
I am no common bearer of babes .
Shamlegh is thine : hoof and horn and hide , milk and butter .
Take or leave . '
She turned resolutely uphill , her silver necklaces clicking on her broad breast , to meet the morning sun fifteen hundred feet above them .
This time Kim thought in the vernacular as he waxed down the oilskin edges of the packets .
` How can a man follow the Way or the Great Game when he is so -- always pestered by women ?
There was that girl at Akrola of the Ford ; and there was the scullion 's wife behind the dovecot -- not counting the others -- and now comes this one !
When I was a child it was well enough , but now I am a man and they will not regard me as a man .
Walnuts , indeed !
Ho !
ho !
It is almonds in the Plains ! '
He went out to levy on the village -- not with a begging-bowl , which might do for down-country , but in the manner of a prince .
Shamlegh 's summer population is only three families -- four women and eight or nine men .
They were all full of tinned meats and mixed drinks , from ammoniated quinine to white vodka , for they had taken their full share in the overnight loot .
The neat Continental tents had been cut up and shared long ago , and there were patent aluminium saucepans abroad .
But they considered the lama 's presence a perfect safeguard against all consequences , and impenitently brought Kim of their best -- even to a drink of chang -- the barley-beer that comes from Ladakh-way .
Then they thawed out in the sun , and sat with their legs hanging over infinite abysses , chattering , laughing , and smoking .
They judged India and its Government solely from their experience of wandering Sahibs who had employed them or their friends as shikarris .
Kim heard tales of shots missed upon ibex , serow , or markhor , by Sahibs twenty years in their graves -- every detail lighted from behind like twigs on tree-tops seen against lightning .
They told him of their little diseases , and , more important , the diseases of their tiny , sure-footed cattle ; of trips as far as Kotgarh , where the strange missionaries live , and beyond even to marvellous Simla , where the streets are paved with silver , and anyone , look you , can get service with the Sahibs , who ride about in two-wheeled carts and spend money with a spade .
Presently , grave and aloof , walking very heavily , the lama joined himself to the chatter under the eaves , and they gave him great room .
The thin air refreshed him , and he sat on the edge of precipices with the best of them , and , when talk languished , flung pebbles into the void .
Thirty miles away , as the eagle flies , lay the next range , seamed and channelled and pitted with little patches of brush -- forests , each a day 's dark march .
Behind the village , Shamlegh hill itself cut off all view to southward .
It was like sitting in a swallow 's nest under the eaves of the roof of the world .
From time to time the lama stretched out his hand , and with a little low-voiced prompting would point out the road to Spiti and north across the Parungla .
` Beyond , where the hills lie thickest , lies De-ch ` en ' -LRB- he meant Han-le ' -RRB- , ` the great Monastery .
s ` Tag-stan-ras-ch ` en built it , and of him there runs this tale . '
Whereupon he told it : a fantastic piled narrative of bewitchment and miracles that set Shamlegh a-gasping .
Turning west a little , he steered for the green hills of Kulu , and sought Kailung under the glaciers .
` For thither came I in the old , old days .
From Leh I came , over the Baralachi . '
` Yes , yes ; we know it , ' said the far-faring people of Shamlegh .
` And I slept two nights with the priests of Kailung .
These are the Hills of my delight !
Shadows blessed above all other shadows !
There my eyes opened on this world ; there my eyes were opened to this world ; there I found Enlightenment ; and there I girt my loins for my Search .
Out of the Hills I came -- the high Hills and the strong winds .
Oh , just is the Wheel ! '
He blessed them in detail -- the great glaciers , the naked rocks , the piled moraines and tumbled shale ; dry upland , hidden salt-lake , age-old timber and fruitful water-shot valley one after the other , as a dying man blesses his folk ; and Kim marvelled at his passion .
` Yes -- yes .
There is no place like our Hills , ' said the people of Shamlegh .
And they fell to wondering how a man could live in the hot terrible Plains where the cattle run as big as elephants , unfit to plough on a hillside ; where village touches village , they had heard , for a hundred miles ; where folk went about stealing in gangs , and what the robbers spared the Police carried utterly away .
So the still forenoon wore through , and at the end of it Kim 's messenger dropped from the steep pasture as unbreathed as when she had set out . '
I sent a word to the hakim , ' Kim explained , while she made reverence .
` He joined himself to the idolaters ?
Nay , I remember he did a healing upon one of them .
He has acquired merit , though the healed employed his strength for evil .
Just is the Wheel !
What of the hakim ? ' '
I feared that thou hadst been bruised and -- and I knew he was wise . '
Kim took the waxed walnut-shell and read in English on the back of his note : Your favour received .
Can not get away from present company at present , but shall take them into Simla .
After which , hope to rejoin you .
Inexpedient to follow angry gentlemen .
Return by same road you came , and will overtake .
Highly gratified about correspondence due to my forethought .
` He says , Holy One , that he will escape from the idolaters , and will return to us .
Shall we wait awhile at Shamlegh , then ? '
The lama looked long and lovingly upon the hills and shook his head .
` That may not be , chela .
From my bones outward I do desire it , but it is forbidden .
I have seen the Cause of Things . '
` Why ?
When the Hills give thee back thy strength day by day ?
Remember we were weak and fainting down below there in the Doon . ' '
I became strong to do evil and to forget .
A brawler and a swashbuckler upon the hillsides was I. ' Kim bit back a smile .
` Just and perfect is the Wheel , swerving not a hair .
When I was a man -- a long time ago -- I did pilgrimage to Guru Ch ` wan among the poplars ' -LRB- he pointed Bhotanwards -RRB- , ` where they keep the Sacred Horse . '
` Quiet , be quiet ! '
said Shamlegh , all arow .
` He speaks of Jam-lin-nin-k ` or , the Horse That Can Go Round The World In a Day . ' '
I speak to my chela only , ' said the lama , in gentle reproof , and they scattered like frost on south eaves of a morning . '
I did not seek truth in those days , but the talk of doctrine .
All illusion !
I drank the beer and ate the bread of Guru Ch ` wan .
Next day one said : `` We go out to fight Sangor Gutok down the valley to discover '' -LRB- mark again how Lust is tied to Anger ! -RRB-
`` which Abbot shall bear rule in the valley and take the profit of the prayers they print at Sangor Gutok . ''
I went , and we fought a day . '
` But how , Holy One ? '
` With our long pencases as I could have shown ... I say , we fought under the poplars , both Abbots and all the monks , and one laid open my forehead to the bone .
See ! '
He tilted back his cap and showed a puckered silvery scar .
` Just and perfect is the Wheel !
Yesterday the scar itched , and after fifty years I recalled how it was dealt and the face of him who dealt it ; dwelling a little in illusion .
Followed that which thou didst see -- strife and stupidity .
Just is the Wheel !
The idolater 's blow fell upon the scar .
Then I was shaken in my soul : my soul was darkened , and the boat of my soul rocked upon the waters of illusion .
Not till I came to Shamlegh could I meditate upon the Cause of Things , or trace the running grass-roots of Evil .
I strove all the long night . '
` But , Holy One , thou art innocent of all evil .
May I be thy sacrifice ! '
Kim was genuinely distressed at the old man 's sorrow , and Mahbub Ali 's phrase slipped out unawares .
` In the dawn , ' the lama went on more gravely , ready rosary clicking between the slow sentences , ` came enlightenment .
It is here ... I am an old man ... hill-bred , hill-fed , never to sit down among my Hills .
Three years I travelled through Hind , but -- can earth be stronger than Mother Earth ?
My stupid body yearned to the Hills and the snows of the Hills , from below there .
I said , and it is true , my Search is sure .
So , at the Kulu woman 's house I turned hillward , over-persuaded by myself .
There is no blame to the hakim .
He -- following Desire -- foretold that the Hills would make me strong .
They strengthened me to do evil , to forget my Search .
I delighted in life and the lust of life .
I desired strong slopes to climb .
I cast about to find them .
I measured the strength of my body , which is evil , against the high Hills , I made a mock of thee when thy breath came short under Jamnotri .
I jested when thou wouldst not face the snow of the pass . '
` But what harm ?
I was afraid .
It was just .
I am not a hillman ; and I loved thee for thy new strength . '
` More than once I remember ' -- he rested his cheek dolefully on his hand -- ' I sought thy praise and the hakim 's for the mere strength of my legs .
Thus evil followed evil till the cup was full .
Just is the Wheel !
All Hind for three years did me all honour .
From the Fountain of Wisdom in the Wonder House to ' -- he smiled -- ' a little child playing by a big gun -- the world prepared my road .
And why ? '
` Because we loved thee .
It is only the fever of the blow .
I myself am still sick and shaken . '
` No !
It was because I was upon the Way -- tuned as are si-nen -LSB- cymbals -RSB- to the purpose of the Law .
I departed from that ordinance .
The tune was broken : followed the punishment .
In my own Hills , on the edge of my own country , in the very place of my evil desire , comes the buffet -- here ! '
-LRB- He touched his brow . -RRB-
` As a novice is beaten when he misplaces the cups , so am I beaten , who was Abbot of Such-zen .
No word , look you , but a blow , chela . '
` But the Sahibs did not know thee , Holy One ? '
` We were well matched .
Ignorance and Lust met Ignorance and Lust upon the road , and they begat Anger .
The blow was a sign to me , who am no better than a strayed yak , that my place is not here .
Who can read the Cause of an act is halfway to Freedom !
`` Back to the path , '' says the Blow .
`` The Hills are not for thee .
Thou canst not choose Freedom and go in bondage to the delight of life . '' '
` Would we had never met that cursed Russian ! '
` Our Lord Himself can not make the Wheel swing backward .
And for my merit that I had acquired I gain yet another sign . '
He put his hand in his bosom , and drew forth the Wheel of Life .
` Look !
I considered this after I had meditated .
There remains untorn by the idolater no more than the breadth of my fingernail . ' '
I see . '
` So much , then , is the span of my life in this body .
I have served the Wheel all my days .
Now the Wheel serves me .
But for the merit I have acquired in guiding thee upon the Way , there would have been added to me yet another life ere I had found my River .
Is it plain , chela ? '
Kim stared at the brutally disfigured chart .
From left to right diagonally the rent ran -- from the Eleventh House where Desire gives birth to the Child -LRB- as it is drawn by Tibetans -RRB- -- across the human and animal worlds , to the Fifth House -- the empty House of the Senses .
The logic was unanswerable .
` Before our Lord won Enlightenment ' -- the lama folded all away with reverence -- ` He was tempted .
I too have been tempted , but it is finished .
The Arrow fell in the Plains -- not in the Hills .
Therefore , what make we here ? '
` Shall we at least wait for the hakim ? ' '
I know how long I shall live in this body .
What can a hakim do ? '
` But thou art all sick and shaken .
Thou canst not walk . '
` How can I be sick if I see Freedom ? '
He rose unsteadily to his feet .
` Then I must get food from the village .
Oh , the weary Road ! '
Kim felt that he too needed rest .
` That is lawful .
Let us eat and go .
The Arrow fell in the Plains ... but I yielded to Desire .
Make ready , chela . '
Kim turned to the woman with the turquoise headgear who had been idly pitching pebbles over the cliff .
She smiled very kindly . '
I found him like a strayed buffalo in a cornfield -- the Babu ; snorting and sneezing with cold .
He was so hungry that he forgot his dignity and gave me sweet words .
The Sahibs have nothing . '
She flung out an empty palm .
` One is very sick about the stomach .
Thy work ? '
Kim nodded , with a bright eye . '
I spoke to the Bengali first -- and to the people of a near-by village after .
The Sahibs will be given food as they need it -- nor will the people ask money .
The plunder is already distributed .
The Babu makes lying speeches to the Sahibs .
Why does he not leave them ? '
` Out of the greatness of his heart . '
` Was never a Bengali yet had one bigger than a dried walnut .
But it is no matter ... Now as to walnuts .
After service comes reward .
I have said the village is thine . '
` It is my loss , ' Kim began .
` Even now I had planned desirable things in my heart which ' -- there is no need to go through the compliments proper to these occasions .
He sighed deeply ... ` But my master , led by a vision -- ' ` Huh !
What can old eyes see except a full begging-bowl ? ' '
-- turns from this village to the Plains again . '
` Bid him stay . '
Kim shook his head . '
I know my Holy One , and his rage if he be crossed , ' he replied impressively .
` His curses shake the Hills . '
` Pity they did not save him from a broken head !
I heard that thou wast the tiger-hearted one who smote the Sahib .
Let him dream a little longer .
Stay ! '
` Hillwoman , ' said Kim , with austerity that could not harden the outlines of his young oval face , ` these matters are too high for thee . '
` The Gods be good to us !
Since when have men and women been other than men and women ? ' '
A priest is a priest .
He says he will go upon this hour .
I am his chela , and I go with him .
We need food for the Road .
He is an honoured guest in all the villages , but ' -- he broke into a pure boy 's grin -- ` the food here is good .
Give me some . '
` What if I do not give it thee ?
I am the woman of this village . '
` Then I curse thee -- a little -- not greatly , but enough to remember . '
He could not help smiling .
` Thou hast cursed me already by the down-dropped eyelash and the uplifted chin .
Curses ?
What should I care for mere words ? '
She clenched her hands upon her bosom ... ` But I would not have thee to go in anger , thinking hardly of me -- a gatherer of cow-dung and grass at Shamlegh , but still a woman of substance . ' '
I think nothing , ' said Kim , ` but that I am grieved to go , for I am very weary ; and that we need food .
Here is the bag . '
The woman snatched it angrily . '
I was foolish , ' said she .
` Who is thy woman in the Plains ?
Fair or black ?
I was fair once .
Laughest thou ?
Once , long ago , if thou canst believe , a Sahib looked on me with favour .
Once , long ago , I wore European clothes at the Mission-house yonder . '
She pointed towards Kotgarh .
` Once , long ago .
I was Ker-lis-ti-an and spoke English -- as the Sahibs speak it .
Yes .
My Sahib said he would return and wed me -- yes , wed me .
He went away -- I had nursed him when he was sick -- but he never returned .
Then I saw that the Gods of the Kerlistians lied , and I went back to my own people ... I have never set eyes on a Sahib since .
-LRB- Do not laugh at me .
The fit is past , little priestling . -RRB-
Thy face and thy walk and thy fashion of speech put me in mind of my Sahib , though thou art only a wandering mendicant to whom I give a dole .
Curse me ?
Thou canst neither curse nor bless ! '
She set her hands on her hips and laughed bitterly .
` Thy Gods are lies ; thy works are lies ; thy words are lies .
There are no Gods under all the Heavens .
I know it ... But for awhile I thought it was my Sahib come back , and he was my God .
Yes , once I made music on a pianno in the Mission-house at Kotgarh .
Now I give alms to priests who are heatthen . '
She wound up with the English word , and tied the mouth of the brimming bag . '
I wait for thee , chela , ' said the lama , leaning against the door-post .
The woman swept the tall figure with her eyes .
` He walk !
He can not cover half a mile .
Whither would old bones go ? '
At this Kim , already perplexed by the lama 's collapse and foreseeing the weight of the bag , fairly lost his temper .
` What is it to thee , woman of ill-omen , where he goes ? '
` Nothing -- but something to thee , priest with a Sahib 's face .
Wilt thou carry him on thy shoulders ? ' '
I go to the Plains .
None must hinder my return .
I have wrestled with my soul till I am strengthless .
The stupid body is spent , and we are far from the Plains . '
` Behold ! '
she said simply , and drew aside to let Kim see his own utter helplessness .
` Curse me .
Maybe it will give him strength .
Make a charm !
Call on thy great God .
Thou art a priest . '
She turned away .
The lama had squatted limply , still holding by the door-post .
One can not strike down an old man that he recovers again like a boy in the night .
Weakness bowed him to the earth , but his eyes that hung on Kim were alive and imploring .
` It is all well , ' said Kim .
` It is the thin air that weakens thee .
In a little while we go !
It is the mountain-sickness .
I too am a little sick at stomach , ' -- and he knelt and comforted with such poor words as came first to his lips .
Then the woman returned , more erect than ever .
` Thy Gods useless , heh ?
Try mine .
I am the Woman of Shamlegh . '
She hailed hoarsely , and there came out of a cow-pen her two husbands and three others with a dooli , the rude native litter of the Hills , that they use for carrying the sick and for visits of state .
` These cattle ' -- she did not condescend to look at them -- ` are thine for so long as thou shalt need . '
` But we will not go Simla-way .
We will not go near the Sahibs , ' cried the first husband .
` They will not run away as the others did , nor will they steal baggage .
Two I know for weaklings .
Stand to the rear-pole , Sonoo and Taree . '
They obeyed swiftly .
` Lower now , and lift in that holy man .
I will see to the village and your virtuous wives till ye return . '
` When will that be ? '
` Ask the priests .
Do not pester me .
Lay the food-bag at the foot , it balances better so . '
` Oh , Holy One , thy Hills are kinder than our Plains ! '
cried Kim , relieved , as the lama tottered to the litter .
` It is a very king 's bed -- a place of honour and ease .
And we owe it to -- ' ' A woman of ill-omen .
I need thy blessings as much as I do thy curses .
It is my order and none of thine .
Lift and away !
Here !
Hast thou money for the road ? '
She beckoned Kim to her hut , and stooped above a battered English cash-box under her cot . '
I do not need anything , ' said Kim , angered where he should have been grateful . '
I am already rudely loaded with favours . '
She looked up with a curious smile and laid a hand on his shoulder .
` At least , thank me .
I am foul-faced and a hillwoman , but , as thy talk goes , I have acquired merit .
Shall I show thee how the Sahibs render thanks ? '
and her hard eyes softened . '
I am but a wandering priest , ' said Kim , his eyes lighting in answer .
` Thou needest neither my blessings nor my curses . '
` Nay .
But for one little moment -- thou canst overtake the dooli in ten strides -- if thou wast a Sahib , shall I show thee what thou wouldst do ? '
` How if I guess , though ? '
said Kim , and putting his arm round her waist , he kissed her on the cheek , adding in English : ` Thank you verree much , my dear . '
Kissing is practically unknown among Asiatics , which may have been the reason that she leaned back with wide-open eyes and a face of panic .
` Next time , ' Kim went on , ` you must not be so sure of your heatthen priests .
Now I say good-bye . '
He held out his hand English-fashion .
She took it mechanically .
` Good-bye , my dear . '
` Good-bye , and -- and ' -- she was remembering her English words one by one -- ` you will come back again ?
Good-bye , and -- thee God bless you . '
Half an hour later , as the creaking litter jolted up the hill path that leads south-easterly from Shamlegh , Kim saw a tiny figure at the hut door waving a white rag .
` She has acquired merit beyond all others , ' said the lama .
` For to set a man upon the way to Freedom is half as great as though she had herself found it . '
` Umm , ' said Kim thoughtfully , considering the past .
` It may be that I have acquired merit also ... At least she did not treat me like a child . '
He hitched the front of his robe , where lay the slab of documents and maps , re-stowed the precious food-bag at the lama 's feet , laid his hand on the litter 's edge , and buckled down to the slow pace of the grunting husbands .
` These also acquire merit , ' said the lama after three miles .
` More than that , they shall be paid in silver , ' quoth Kim .
The Woman of Shamlegh had given it to him ; and it was only fair , he argued , that her men should earn it back again .
Chapter 15 I 'd not give room for an Emperor -- I 'd hold my road for a King .
To the Triple Crown I 'd not bow down -- But this is a different thing !
I 'll not fight with the Powers of Air -- Sentry , pass him through !
Drawbridge let fall -- He 's the Lord of us all -- The Dreamer whose dream came true !
The Siege of the Fairies .
Two hundred miles north of Chini , on the blue shale of Ladakh , lies Yankling Sahib , the merry-minded man , spy-glassing wrathfully across the ridges for some sign of his pet tracker -- a man from Ao-chung .
But that renegade , with a new Mannlicher rifle and two hundred cartridges , is elsewhere , shooting musk-deer for the market , and Yankling Sahib will learn next season how very ill he has been .
Up the valleys of Bushahr -- the far-beholding eagles of the Himalayas swerve at his new blue-and-white gored umbrella -- hurries a Bengali , once fat and well-looking , now lean and weather-worn .
He has received the thanks of two foreigners of distinction , piloted not unskilfully to Mashobra tunnel , which leads to the great and gay capital of India .
It was not his fault that , blanketed by wet mists , he conveyed them past the telegraph-station and European colony of Kotgarh .
It was not his fault , but that of the Gods , of whom he discoursed so engagingly , that he led them into the borders of Nahan , where the Rahah of that State mistook them for deserting British soldiery .
Hurree Babu explained the greatness and glory , in their own country , of his companions , till the drowsy kinglet smiled .
He explained it to everyone who asked -- many times -- aloud -- variously .
He begged food , arranged accommodation , proved a skilful leech for an injury of the groin -- such a blow as one may receive rolling down a rock-covered hillside in the dark -- and in all things indispensable .
The reason of his friendliness did him credit .
With millions of fellow-serfs , he had learned to look upon Russia as the great deliverer from the North .
He was a fearful man .
He had been afraid that he could not save his illustrious employers from the anger of an excited peasantry .
He himself would just as lief hit a holy man as not , but ... He was deeply grateful and sincerely rejoiced that he had done his ` little possible ' towards bringing their venture to -- barring the lost baggage -- a successful issue , he had forgotten the blows ; denied that any blows had been dealt that unseemly first night under the pines .
He asked neither pension nor retaining fee , but , if they deemed him worthy , would they write him a testimonial ?
It might be useful to him later , if others , their friends , came over the Passes .
He begged them to remember him in their future greatnesses , for he ` opined subtly ' that he , even he , Mohendro Lal Dutt , MA of Calcutta , had ` done the State some service ' .
They gave him a certificate praising his courtesy , helpfulness , and unerring skill as a guide .
He put it in his waist-belt and sobbed with emotion ; they had endured so many dangers together .
He led them at high noon along crowded Simla Mall to the Alliance Bank of Simla , where they wished to establish their identity .
Thence he vanished like a dawn-cloud on Jakko .
Behold him , too fine-drawn to sweat , too pressed to vaunt the drugs in his little brass-bound box , ascending Shamlegh slope , a just man made perfect .
Watch him , all Babudom laid aside , smoking at noon on a cot , while a woman with turquoise-studded headgear points south-easterly across the bare grass .
Litters , she says , do not travel as fast as single men , but his birds should now be in the Plains .
The holy man would not stay though Lispeth pressed him .
The Babu groans heavily , girds up his huge loins , and is off again .
He does not care to travel after dusk ; but his days ' marches -- there is none to enter them in a book -- would astonish folk who mock at his race .
Kindly villagers , remembering the Dacca drug-vendor of two months ago , give him shelter against evil spirits of the wood .
He dreams of Bengali Gods , University text-books of education , and the Royal Society , London , England .
Next dawn the bobbing blue-and-white umbrella goes forward .
On the edge of the Doon , Mussoorie well behind them and the Plains spread out in golden dust before , rests a worn litter in which -- all the Hills know it -- lies a sick lama who seeks a River for his healing .
Villages have almost come to blows over the honour of bearing it , for not only has the lama given them blessings , but his disciple good money -- full one-third Sahibs ' prices .
Twelve miles a day has the dooli travelled , as the greasy , rubbed pole-ends show , and by roads that few Sahibs use .
Over the Nilang Pass in storm when the driven snow-dust filled every fold of the impassive lama 's drapery ; between the black horns of Raieng where they heard the whistle of the wild goats through the clouds ; pitching and strained on the shale below ; hard-held between shoulder and clenched jaw when they rounded the hideous curves of the Cut Road under Bhagirati ; swinging and creaking to the steady jog-trot of the descent into the Valley of the Waters ; pressed along the steamy levels of that locked valley ; up , up and out again , to meet the roaring gusts off Kedarnath ; set down of mid-days in the dun gloom of kindly oak-forests ; passed from village to village in dawn-chill , when even devotees may be forgiven for swearing at impatient holy men ; or by torchlight , when the least fearful think of ghosts -- the dooli has reached her last stage .
The little hill-folk sweat in the modified heat of the lower Siwaliks , and gather round the priests for their blessing and their wage .
` Ye have acquired merit , ' says the lama .
` Merit greater than your knowing .
And ye will return to the Hills , ' he sighs .
` Surely .
The high Hills as soon as may be . '
The bearer rubs his shoulder , drinks water , spits it out again , and readjusts his grass sandal .
Kim -- his face is drawn and tired -- pays very small silver from his belt , heaves out the food-bag , crams an oilskin packet -- they are holy writings -- into his bosom , and helps the lama to his feet .
The peace has come again into the old man 's eyes , and he does not look for the hills to fall down and crush him as he did that terrible night when they were delayed by the flooded river .
The men pick up the dooli and swing out of sight between the scrub clumps .
The lama raises a hand toward the rampart of the Himalayas .
` Not with you , O blessed among all hills , fell the Arrow of Our Lord !
And never shall I breathe your airs again ! '
` But thou art ten times the stronger man in this good air , ' says Kim , for to his wearied soul appeal the well-cropped , kindly Plains .
` Here , or hereabouts , fell the Arrow , yes .
We will go very softly , perhaps , a koss a day , for the Search is sure .
But the bag weighs heavy . '
` Ay , our Search is sure .
I have come out of great temptation . '
It was never more than a couple of miles a day now , and Kim 's shoulders bore all the weight of it -- the burden of an old man , the burden of the heavy food-bag with the locked books , the load of the writings on his heart , and the details of the daily routine .
He begged in the dawn , set blankets for the lama 's meditation , held the weary head on his lap through the noonday heats , fanning away the flies till his wrists ached , begged again in the evenings , and rubbed the lama 's feet , who rewarded him with promise of Freedom -- today , tomorrow , or , at furthest , the next day .
` Never was such a chela .
I doubt at times whether Ananda more faithfully nursed Our Lord .
And thou art a Sahib ?
When I was a man -- a long time ago -- I forgot that .
Now I look upon thee often , and every time I remember that thou art a Sahib .
It is strange . '
` Thou hast said there is neither black nor white .
Why plague me with this talk , Holy One ?
Let me rub the other foot .
It vexes me .
I am not a Sahib .
I am thy chela , and my head is heavy on my shoulders . '
` Patience a little !
We reach Freedom together .
Then thou and I , upon the far bank of the River , will look back upon our lives as in the Hills we saw our days ' marches laid out behind us .
Perhaps I was once a Sahib . '
` Was never a Sahib like thee , I swear it . ' '
I am certain the Keeper of the Images in the Wonder House was in past life a very wise Abbot .
But even his spectacles do not make my eyes see .
There fall shadows when I would look steadily .
No matter -- we know the tricks of the poor stupid carcass -- shadow changing to another shadow .
I am bound by the illusion of Time and Space .
How far came we today in the flesh ? '
` Perhaps half a koss . '
-LRB- Three quarters of a mile , and it was a weary march . -RRB-
` Half a koss .
Ha !
I went ten thousand thousand in the spirit .
How , we are all lapped and swathed and swaddled in these senseless things . '
He looked at his thin blue-veined hand that found the beads so heavy .
` Chela , hast thou never a wish to leave me ? '
Kim thought of the oilskin packet and the books in the food-bag .
If someone duly authorized would only take delivery of them the Great Game might play itself for aught he then cared .
He was tired and hot in his head , and a cough that came from the stomach worried him .
` No . '
he said almost sternly . '
I am not a dog or a snake to bite when I have learned to love . '
` Thou art too tender towards me . '
` Not that either .
I have moved in one matter without consulting thee .
I have sent a message to the Kulu woman by that woman who gave us the goat 's milk this morn , saying that thou wast a little feeble and wouldst need a litter .
I beat myself in my mind that I did not do it when we entered the Doon .
We stay in this place till the litter returns . ' '
I am content .
She is a woman with a heart of gold , as thou sayest , but a talker -- something of a talker . '
` She will not weary thee .
I have looked to that also .
Holy One , my heart is very heavy for my many carelessnesses towards thee . '
An hysterical catch rose in his throat . '
I have walked thee too far : I have not picked good food always for thee ; I have not considered the heat ; I have talked to people on the road and left thee alone ... I have -- I have ... Hai mai !
But I love thee ... and it is all too late ... I was a child ... Oh , why was I not a man ?
... ' Overborne by strain , fatigue , and the weight beyond his years , Kim broke down and sobbed at the lama 's feet .
` What a to-do is here ! '
said the old man gently .
` Thou hast never stepped a hair 's breadth from the Way of Obedience .
Neglect me ?
Child , I have lived on thy strength as an old tree lives on the lime of a new wall .
Day by day , since Shamlegh down , I have stolen strength from thee .
Therefore , not through any sin of thine , art thou weakened .
It is the Body -- the silly , stupid Body -- that speaks now .
Not the assured Soul .
Be comforted !
Know at least the devils that thou fightest .
They are earth-born -- children of illusion .
We will go to the woman from Kulu .
She shall acquire merit in housing us , and specially in tending me .
Thou shalt run free till strength returns .
I had forgotten the stupid Body .
If there be any blame , I bear it .
But we are too close to the Gates of Deliverance to weigh blame .
I could praise thee , but what need ?
In a little -- in a very little -- we shall sit beyond all needs . '
And so he petted and comforted Kim with wise saws and grave texts on that little-understood beast , our Body , who , being but a delusion , insists on posing as the Soul , to the darkening of the Way , and the immense multiplication of unnecessary devils .
` Hai !
hai !
Let us talk of the woman from Kulu .
Think you she will ask another charm for her grandsons ?
When I was a young man , a very long time ago , I was plagued with these vapours -- and some others -- and I went to an Abbot -- a very holy man and a seeker after truth , though then I knew it not .
Sit up and listen , child of my soul !
My tale was told .
Said he to me , `` Chela , know this .
There are many lies in the world , and not a few liars , but there are no liars like our bodies , except it be the sensations of our bodies . ''
Considering this I was comforted , and of his great favour he suffered me to drink tea In his presence .
Suffer me now to drink tea , for I am thirsty . '
With a laugh across his tears , Kim kissed the lama 's feet , and set about the tea-making .
` Thou leanest on me in the body , Holy One , but I lean on thee for some other things .
Dost know it ? ' '
I have guessed maybe , ' and the lama 's eyes twinkled .
` We must change that . '
So , when with scufflings and scrapings and a hot air of importance , paddled up nothing less than the Sahiba 's pet palanquin sent twenty miles , with that same grizzled old Oorya servant in charge , and when they reached the disorderly order of the long white rambling house behind Saharunpore , the lama took his own measures .
Said the Sahiba cheerily from an upper window , after compliments : ` What is the good of an old woman 's advice to an old man ?
I told thee -- I told thee , Holy One , to keep an eye upon the chela .
How didst thou do it ?
Never answer me !
I know .
He has been running among the women .
Look at his eyes -- hollow and sunk -- and the Betraying Line from the nose down !
He has been sifted out !
Fie !
Fie !
And a priest , too ! '
Kim looked up , over-weary to smile , shaking his head in denial .
` Do not jest , ' said the lama .
` That time is done .
We are here upon great matters .
A sickness of soul took me in the Hills , and him a sickness of the body .
Since then I have lived upon his strength -- eating him . '
` Children together -- young and old , ' she sniffed , but forbore to make any new jokes .
` May this present hospitality restore ye !
Hold awhile and I will come to gossip of the high good Hills . '
At evening time -- her son-in-law was returned , so she did not need to go on inspection round the farm -- she won to the meat of the matter , explained low-voicedly by the lama .
The two old heads nodded wisely together .
Kim had reeled to a room with a cot in it , and was dozing soddenly .
The lama had forbidden him to set blankets or get food . '
I know -- I know .
Who but I ? '
she cackled .
` We who go down to the burning-ghats clutch at the hands of those coming up from the River of Life with full water-jars -- yes , brimming water-jars .
I did the boy wrong .
He lent thee his strength ?
It is true that the old eat the young daily .
Stands now we must restore him . '
` Thou hast many times acquired merit -- ' ` My merit .
What is it ?
Old bag of bones making curries for men who do not ask `` Who cooked this ? ''
Now if it were stored up for my grandson -- ' ` He that had the belly-pain ? '
` To think the Holy One remembers that !
I must tell his mother .
It is most singular honour !
`` He that had the belly-pain '' -- straightway the Holy One remembered .
She will be proud . '
` My chela is to me as is a son to the unenlightened . '
` Say grandson , rather .
Mothers have not the wisdom of our years .
If a child cries they say the heavens are falling .
Now a grandmother is far enough separated from the pain of bearing and the pleasure of giving the breast to consider whether a cry is wickedness pure or the wind .
And since thou speakest once again of wind , when last the Holy One was here , maybe I offended in pressing for charms . '
` Sister , ' said the lama , using that form of address a Buddhist monk may sometimes employ towards a nun , ` if charms comfort thee -- ' ` They are better than ten thousand doctors . ' '
I say , if they comfort thee , I who was Abbot of Such-zen , will make as many as thou mayest desire .
I have never seen thy face -- ' ` That even the monkeys who steal our loquats count for again .
Hee !
hee ! '
` But as he who sleeps there said , ' -- he nodded at the shut door of the guest-chamber across the forecourt -- ` thou hast a heart of gold ... And he is in the spirit my very `` grandson '' to me . '
` Good !
I am the Holy One 's cow . '
This was pure Hinduism , but the lama never heeded . '
I am old .
I have borne sons in the body .
Oh , once I could please men !
Now I can cure them . '
He heard her armlets tinkle as though she bared arms for action . '
I will take over the boy and dose him , and stuff him , and make him all whole .
Hai !
hai !
We old people know something yet . '
Wherefore when Kim , aching in every bone , opened his eyes , and would go to the cook-house to get his master 's food , he found strong coercion about him , and a veiled old figure at the door , flanked by the grizzled manservant , who told him very precisely the things that he was on no account to do .
` Thou must have ?
Thou shalt have nothing .
What ?
A locked box in which to keep holy books ?
Oh , that is another matter .
Heavens forbid I should come between a priest and his prayers !
It shall be brought , and thou shalt keep the key . '
They pushed the coffer under his cot , and Kim shut away Mahbub 's pistol , the oilskin packet of letters , and the locked books and diaries , with a groan of relief .
For some absurd reason their weight on his shoulders was nothing to their weight on his poor mind .
His neck ached under it of nights .
` Thine is a sickness uncommon in youth these days : since young folk have given up tending their betters .
The remedy is sleep , and certain drugs , ' said the Sahiba ; and he was glad to give himself up to the blankness that half menaced and half soothed him .
She brewed drinks , in some mysterious Asiatic equivalent to the still-room -- drenches that smelt pestilently and tasted worse .
She stood over Kim till they went down , and inquired exhaustively after they had come up .
She laid a taboo upon the forecourt , and enforced it by means of an armed man .
It is true he was seventy odd , that his scabbarded sword ceased at the hilt ; but he represented the authority of the Sahiba , and loaded wains , chattering servants , calves , dogs , hens , and the like , fetched a wide compass by those parts .
Best of all , when the body was cleared , she cut out from the mass of poor relations that crowded the back of the buildings -- house-hold dogs , we name them -- a cousin 's widow , skilled in what Europeans , who know nothing about it , call massage .
And the two of them , laying him east and west , that the mysterious earth-currents which thrill the clay of our bodies might help and not hinder , took him to pieces all one long afternoon -- bone by bone , muscle by muscle , ligament by ligament , and lastly , nerve by nerve .
Kneaded to irresponsible pulp , half hypnotized by the perpetual flick and readjustment of the uneasy chudders that veiled their eyes , Kim slid ten thousand miles into slumber -- thirty-six hours of it -- sleep that soaked like rain after drought .
Then she fed him , and the house spun to her clamour .
She caused fowls to be slain ; she sent for vegetables , and the sober , slow-thinking gardener , nigh as old as she , sweated for it ; she took spices , and milk , and onion , with little fish from the brooks -- anon limes for sherbets , fat quails from the pits , then chicken-livers upon a skewer , with sliced ginger between . '
I have seen something of this world , ' she said over the crowded trays , ` and there are but two sorts of women in it -- those who take the strength out of a man and those who put it back .
Once I was that one , and now I am this .
Nay -- do not play the priestling with me .
Mine was but a jest .
If it does not hold good now , it will when thou takest the road again .
Cousin , ' -- this to the poor relation , never wearied of extolling her patroness 's charity -- ` he is getting a bloom on the skin of a new-curried horse .
Our work is like polishing jewels to be thrown to a dance-girl -- eh ? '
Kim sat up and smiled .
The terrible weakness had dropped from him like an old shoe .
His tongue itched for free speech again , and but a week back the lightest word clogged it like ashes .
The pain in his neck -LRB- he must have caught it from the lama -RRB- had gone with the heavy dengue-aches and the evil taste in the mouth .
The two old women , a little , but not much , more careful about their veils now , clucked as merrily as the hens that had entered pecking through the open door .
` Where is my Holy One ? '
he demanded .
` Hear him !
Thy Holy One is well , ' she snapped viciously .
` Though that is none of his merit .
Knew I a charm to make him wise , I 'd sell my jewels and buy it .
To refuse good food that I cooked myself -- and go roving into the fields for two nights on an empty belly -- and to tumble into a brook at the end of it -- call you that holiness ?
Then , when he has nearly broken what thou hast left of my heart with anxiety , he tells me that he has acquired merit .
Oh , how like are all men !
No , that was not it -- he tells me that he is freed from all sin .
I could have told him that before he wetted himself all over .
He is well now -- this happened a week ago -- but burn me such holiness !
A babe of three would do better .
Do not fret thyself for the Holy One .
He keeps both eyes on thee when he is not wading our brooks . ' '
I do not remember to have seen him .
I remember that the days and nights passed like bars of white and black , opening and shutting .
I was not sick : I was but tired . ' '
A lethargy that comes by right some few score years later .
But it is done now . '
` Maharanee , ' Kim began , but led by the look in her eye , changed it to the title of plain love -- ` Mother , I owe my life to thee .
How shall I make thanks ?
Ten thousand blessings upon thy house and -- ' ` The house be unblessed ! '
-LRB- It is impossible to give exactly the old lady 's word . -RRB-
` Thank the Gods as a priest if thou wilt , but thank me , if thou carest , as a son .
Heavens above !
Have I shifted thee and lifted thee and slapped and twisted thy ten toes to find texts flung at my head ?
Somewhere a mother must have borne thee to break her heart .
What used thou to her -- son ? ' '
I had no mother , my mother , ' said Kim .
` She died , they tell me , when I was young . '
` Hai mai !
Then none can say I have robbed her of any right if -- when thou takest the road again and this house is but one of a thousand used for shelter and forgotten , after an easy-flung blessing .
No matter .
I need no blessings , but -- but -- ' She stamped her foot at the poor relation .
` Take up the trays to the house .
What is the good of stale food in the room , O woman of ill-omen ? ' '
I ha -- have borne a son in my time too , but he died , ' whimpered the bowed sister-figure behind the chudder .
` Thou knowest he died !
I only waited for the order to take away the tray . '
` It is I that am the woman of ill-omen , ' cried the old lady penitently .
` We that go down to the chattris -LSB- the big umbrellas above the burning-ghats where the priests take their last dues -RSB- clutch hard at the bearers of the chattis -LSB- water-jars -- young folk full of the pride of life , she meant ; but the pun is clumsy -RSB- .
When one can not dance in the festival one must e ` en look out of the window , and grandmothering takes all a woman 's time .
Thy master gives me all the charms I now desire for my daughter 's eldest , by reason -- is it ?
-- that he is wholly free from sin .
The hakim is brought very low these days .
He goes about poisoning my servants for lack of their betters . '
` What hakim , mother ? '
` That very Dacca man who gave me the pill which rent me in three pieces .
He cast up like a strayed camel a week ago , vowing that he and thou had been blood-brothers together up Kulu-way , and feigning great anxiety for thy health .
He was very thin and hungry , so I gave orders to have him stuffed too -- him and his anxiety ! ' '
I would see him if he is here . '
` He eats five times a day , and lances boils for my hinds to save himself from an apoplexy .
He is so full of anxiety for thy health that he sticks to the cook-house door and stays himself with scraps .
He will keep .
We shall never get rid of him . '
` Send him here , mother ' -- the twinkle returned to Kim 's eye for a flash -- ` and I will try . '
` I 'll send him , but to chase him off is an ill turn .
At least he had the sense to fish the Holy One out of the brook ; thus , as the Holy One did not say , acquiring merit . '
` He is a very wise hakim .
Send him , mother . '
` Priest praising priest ?
A miracle !
If he is any friend of thine -LRB- ye squabbled at your last meeting -RRB- I 'll hale him here with horse-ropes and -- and give him a caste-dinner afterwards , my son ... Get up and see the world !
This lying abed is the mother of seventy devils ... my son !
my son ! '
She trotted forth to raise a typhoon off the cook-house , and almost on her shadow rolled in the Babu , robed as to the shoulders like a Roman emperor , jowled like Titus , bare-headed , with new patent-leather shoes , in highest condition of fat , exuding joy and salutations .
` By Jove , Mister O'Hara , but I are jolly-glad to see you .
I will kindly shut the door .
It is a pity you are sick .
Are you very sick ? '
` The papers -- the papers from the kilta .
The maps and the murasla ! '
He held out the key impatiently ; for the present need on his soul was to get rid of the loot .
` You are quite right .
That is correct Departmental view to take .
You have got everything ? '
` All that was handwritten in the kilta I took .
The rest I threw down the hill . '
He could hear the key 's grate in the lock , the sticky pull of the slow-rending oilskin , and a quick shuffling of papers .
He had been annoyed out of all reason by the knowledge that they lay below him through the sick idle days -- a burden incommunicable .
For that reason the blood tingled through his body , when Hurree , skipping elephantinely , shook hands again .
` This is fine !
This is finest !
Mister O'Hara !
you have -- ha !
ha !
swiped the whole bag of tricks -- locks , stocks , and barrels .
They told me it was eight months ' work gone up the spouts !
By Jove , how they beat me !
... Look , here is the letter from Hilas ! '
He intoned a line or two of Court Persian , which is the language of authorized and unauthorized diplomacy .
` Mister Rajah Sahib has just about put his foot in the holes .
He will have to explain offeecially how the deuce-an ' - all he is writing love-letters to the Czar .
And they are very clever maps ... and there is three or four Prime Ministers of these parts implicated by the correspondence .
By Gad , sar !
The British Government will change the succession in Hilas and Bunar , and nominate new heirs to the throne .
`` Trea-son most base '' ... but you do not understand ?
Eh ? '
` Are they in thy hands ? '
said Kim .
It was all he cared for .
` Just you jolly-well bet yourself they are . '
He stowed the entire trove about his body , as only Orientals can .
` They are going up to the office , too .
The old lady thinks I am permanent fixture here , but I shall go away with these straight off -- immediately .
Mr Lurgan will be proud man .
You are offeecially subordinate to me , but I shall embody your name in my verbal report .
It is a pity we are not allowed written reports .
We Bengalis excel in thee exact science . '
He tossed back the key and showed the box empty .
` Good .
That is good .
I was very tired .
My Holy One was sick , too .
And did he fall into -- ' ` Oah yess .
I am his good friend , I tell you .
He was behaving very strange when I came down after you , and I thought perhaps he might have the papers .
I followed him on his meditations , and to discuss ethnological points also .
You see , I am verree small person here nowadays , in comparison with all his charms .
By Jove , O'Hara , do you know , he is afflicted with infirmity of fits .
Yess , I tell you .
Cataleptic , too , if not also epileptic .
I found him in such a state under a tree in articulo mortem , and he jumped up and walked into a brook and he was nearly drowned but for me .
I pulled him out . '
` Because I was not there ! '
said Kim .
` He might have died . '
` Yes , he might have died , but he is dry now , and asserts he has undergone transfiguration . '
The Babu tapped his forehead knowingly . '
I took notes of his statements for Royal Society -- in posse .
You must make haste and be quite well and come back to Simla , and I will tell you all my tale at Lurgan 's .
It was splendid .
The bottoms of their trousers were quite torn , and old Nahan Rajah , he thought they were European soldiers deserting . '
` Oh , the Russians ?
How long were they with thee ? '
` One was a Frenchman .
Oh , days and days and days !
Now all the hill-people believe all Russians are all beggars .
By Jove !
they had not one dam ' - thing that I did not get them .
And I told the common people -- oah , such tales and anecdotes !
-- I will tell you at old Lurgan 's when you come up .
We will have -- ah -- a night out !
It is feather in both our caps !
Yess , and they gave me a certificate .
That is creaming joke .
You should have seen them at the Alliance Bank identifying themselves !
And thank Almighty God you got their papers so well !
You do not laugh verree much , but you shall laugh when you are well .
Now I will go straight to the railway and get out .
You shall have all sorts of credits for your game .
When do you come along ?
We are very proud of you though you gave us great frights .
And especially Mahbub . '
` Ay , Mahbub .
And where is he ? '
` Selling horses in this vi-cinity , of course . '
` Here !
Why ?
Speak slowly .
There is a thickness in my head still . '
The Babu looked shyly down his nose .
` Well , you see , I am fearful man , and I do not like responsibility .
You were sick , you see , and I did not know where deuce-an ' - all the papers were , and if so , how many .
So when I had come down here I slipped in private wire to Mahbub -- he was at Meerut for races -- and I tell him how case stands .
He comes up with his men and he consorts with the lama , and then he calls me a fool , and is very rude -- ' ` But wherefore -- wherefore ? '
` That is what I ask .
I only suggest that if anyone steals the papers I should like some good strong , brave men to rob them back again .
You see , they are vitally important , and Mahbub Ali he did not know where you were . '
` Mahbub Ali to rob the Sahiba 's house ?
Thou art mad , Babu , ' said Kim with indignation . '
I wanted the papers .
Suppose she had stole them ?
It was only practical suggestion , I think .
You are not pleased , eh ? '
A native proverb -- unquotable -- showed the blackness of Kim 's disapproval .
` Well , ' -- Hurree shrugged his shoulders -- ` there is no accounting for thee taste .
Mahbub was angry too .
He has sold horses all about here , and he says old lady is pukka -LSB- thorough -RSB- old lady and would not condescend to such ungentlemanly things .
I do not care .
I have got the papers , and I was very glad of moral support from Mahbub .
I tell you , I am fearful man , but , somehow or other , the more fearful I am the more dam ' - tight places I get into .
So I was glad you came with me to Chini , and I am glad Mahbub was close by .
The old lady she is sometimes very rude to me and my beautiful pills . '
` Allah be merciful ! '
said Kim on his elbow , rejoicing .
` What a beast of wonder is a Babu !
And that man walked alone -- if he did walk -- with robbed and angry foreigners ! '
` Oah , thatt was nothing , after they had done beating me ; but if I lost the papers it was pretty-jolly serious .
Mahbub he nearly beat me too , and he went and consorted with the lama no end .
I shall stick to ethnological investigations henceforwards .
Now good-bye , Mister O'Hara .
I can catch 4.25 p.m. to Umballa if I am quick .
It will be good times when we all tell thee tale up at Mr Lurgan 's .
I shall report you offeecially better .
Good-bye , my dear fallow , and when next you are under thee emotions please do not use the Mohammedan terms with the Tibetan dress . '
He shook hands twice -- a Babu to his boot-heels -- and opened the door .
With the fall of the sunlight upon his still triumphant face he returned to the humble Dacca quack .
` He robbed them , ' thought Kim , forgetting his own share in the game .
` He tricked them .
He lied to them like a Bengali .
They give him a chit -LSB- a testimonial -RSB- .
He makes them a mock at the risk of his life -- I never would have gone down to them after the pistol-shots -- and then he says he is a fearful man ... And he is a fearful man .
I must get into the world again . '
At first his legs bent like bad pipe-stems , and the flood and rush of the sunlit air dazzled him .
He squatted by the white wall , the mind rummaging among the incidents of the long dooli journey , the lama 's weaknesses , and , now that the stimulus of talk was removed , his own self-pity , of which , like the sick , he had great store .
The unnerved brain edged away from all the outside , as a raw horse , once rowelled , sidles from the spur .
It was enough , amply enough , that the spoil of the kilta was away -- off his hands -- out of his possession .
He tried to think of the lama -- to wonder why he had tumbled into a brook -- but the bigness of the world , seen between the forecourt gates , swept linked thought aside .
Then he looked upon the trees and the broad fields , with the thatched huts hidden among crops -- looked with strange eyes unable to take up the size and proportion and use of things -- stared for a still half-hour .
All that while he felt , though he could not put it into words , that his soul was out of gear with its surroundings -- a cog-wheel unconnected with any machinery , just like the idle cog-wheel of a cheap Beheea sugar-crusher laid by in a corner .
The breezes fanned over him , the parrots shrieked at him , the noises of the populated house behind -- squabbles , orders , and reproofs -- hit on dead ears . '
I am Kim .
I am Kim .
And what is Kim ? '
His soul repeated it again and again .
He did not want to cry -- had never felt less like crying in his life -- but of a sudden easy , stupid tears trickled down his nose , and with an almost audible click he felt the wheels of his being lock up anew on the world without .
Things that rode meaningless on the eyeball an instant before slid into proper proportion .
Roads were meant to be walked upon , houses to be lived in , cattle to be driven , fields to be tilled , and men and women to be talked to .
They were all real and true -- solidly planted upon the feet -- perfectly comprehensible -- clay of his clay , neither more nor less .
He shook himself like a dog with a flea in his ear , and rambled out of the gate .
Said the Sahiba , to whom watchful eyes reported this move : ` Let him go .
I have done my share .
Mother Earth must do the rest .
When the Holy One comes back from meditation , tell him . '
There stood an empty bullock-cart on a little knoll half a mile away , with a young banyan tree behind -- a look-out , as it were , above some new-ploughed levels ; and his eyelids , bathed in soft air , grew heavy as he neared it .
The ground was good clean dust -- no new herbage that , living , is half-way to death already , but the hopeful dust that holds the seeds of all life .
He felt it between his toes , patted it with his palms , and joint by joint , sighing luxuriously , laid him down full length along in the shadow of the wooden-pinned cart .
And Mother Earth was as faithful as the Sahiba .
She breathed through him to restore the poise he had lost lying so long on a cot cut off from her good currents .
His head lay powerless upon her breast , and his opened hands surrendered to her strength .
The many-rooted tree above him , and even the dead manhandled wood beside , knew what he sought , as he himself did not know .
Hour upon hour he lay deeper than sleep .
Towards evening , when the dust of returning kine made all the horizons smoke , came the lama and Mahbub Ali , both afoot , walking cautiously , for the house had told them where he had gone .
` Allah !
What a fool 's trick to play in open country ! '
muttered the horse-dealer .
` He could be shot a hundred times -- but this is not the Border . '
` And , ' said the lama , repeating a many-times-told tale , ` never was such a chela .
Temperate , kindly , wise , of ungrudging disposition , a merry heart upon the road , never forgetting , learned , truthful , courteous .
Great is his reward ! ' '
I know the boy -- as I have said . '
` And he was all those things ? '
` Some of them -- but I have not yet found a Red Hat 's charm for making him overly truthful .
He has certainly been well nursed . '
` The Sahiba is a heart of gold , ' said the lama earnestly .
` She looks upon him as her son . '
` Hmph !
Half Hind seems that way disposed .
I only wished to see that the boy had come to no harm and was a free agent .
As thou knowest , he and I were old friends in the first days of your pilgrimage together . '
` That is a bond between us . '
The lama sat down .
` We are at the end of the pilgrimage . '
` No thanks to thee thine was not cut off for good and all a week back .
I heard what the Sahiba said to thee when we bore thee up on the cot . '
Mahbub laughed , and tugged his newly dyed beard . '
I was meditating upon other matters that tide .
It was the hakim from Dacca broke my meditations . '
` Otherwise ' -- this was in Pushtu for decency 's sake -- ` thou wouldst have ended thy meditations upon the sultry side of Hell -- being an unbeliever and an idolater for all thy child 's simplicity .
But now , Red Hat , what is to be done ? '
` This very night , ' -- the words came slowly , vibrating with triumph -- ` this very night he will be as free as I am from all taint of sin -- assured as I am , when he quits this body , of Freedom from the Wheel of Things .
I have a sign ' -- he laid his hand above the torn chart in his bosom -- ` that my time is short ; but I shall have safeguarded him throughout the years .
Remember , I have reached Knowledge , as I told thee only three nights back . '
` It must be true , as the Tirah priest said when I stole his cousin 's wife , that I am a Sufi -LSB- a free-thinker -RSB- ; for here I sit , ' said Mahbub to himself , ` drinking in blasphemy unthinkable ... I remember the tale .
On that , then , he goes to Fannatu l'Adn -LSB- the Gardens of Eden -RSB- .
But how ?
Wilt thou slay him or drown him in that wonderful river from which the Babu dragged thee ? ' '
I was dragged from no river , ' said the lama simply .
` Thou hast forgotten what befell .
I found it by Knowledge . '
` Oh , ay .
True , ' stammered Mahbub , divided between high indignation and enormous mirth . '
I had forgotten the exact run of what happened .
Thou didst find it knowingly . '
` And to say that I would take life is -- not a sin , but a madness simple .
My chela aided me to the River .
It is his right to be cleansed from sin -- with me . '
` Ay , he needs cleansing .
But afterwards , old man -- afterwards ? '
` What matter under all the Heavens ?
He is sure of Nibban -- enlightened -- as I am . '
` Well said .
I had a fear he might mount Mohammed 's Horse and fly away . '
` Nay -- he must go forth as a teacher . '
` Aha !
Now I see !
That is the right gait for the colt .
Certainly he must go forth as a teacher .
He is somewhat urgently needed as a scribe by the State , for instance . '
` To that end he was prepared .
I acquired merit in that I gave alms for his sake .
A good deed does not die .
He aided me in my Search .
I aided him in his .
Just is the Wheel , O horse-seller from the North .
Let him be a teacher ; let him be a scribe -- what matter ?
He will have attained Freedom at the end .
The rest is illusion . '
` What matter ?
When I must have him with me beyond Balkh in six months !
I come up with ten lame horses and three strong-backed men -- thanks to that chicken of a Babu -- to break a sick boy by force out of an old trot 's house .
It seems that I stand by while a young Sahib is hoisted into Allah knows what of an idolater 's Heaven by means of old Red Hat .
And I am reckoned something of a player of the Game myself !
But the madman is fond of the boy ; and I must be very reasonably mad too . '
` What is the prayer ? '
said the lama , as the rough Pushtu rumbled into the red beard .
` No matter at all ; but now I understand that the boy , sure of Paradise , can yet enter Government service , my mind is easier .
I must get to my horses .
It grows dark .
Do not wake him .
I have no wish to hear him call thee master . '
` But he is my disciple .
What else ? '
` He has told me . '
Mahbub choked down his touch of spleen and rose laughing . '
I am not altogether of thy faith , Red Hat -- if so small a matter concern thee . '
` It is nothing , ' said the lama . '
I thought not .
Therefore it will not move thee , sinless , new-washed and three parts drowned to boot , when I call thee a good man -- a very good man .
We have talked together some four or five evenings now , and for all I am a horse-coper I can still , as the saying is , see holiness beyond the legs of a horse .
Yea , can see , too , how our Friend of all the World put his hand in thine at the first .
Use him well , and suffer him to return to the world as a teacher , when thou hast -- bathed his legs , if that be the proper medicine for the colt . '
` Why not follow the Way thyself , and so accompany the boy ? '
Mahbub stared stupefied at the magnificent insolence of the demand , which across the Border he would have paid with more than a blow .
Then the humour of it touched his worldly soul .
` Softly -- softly -- one foot at a time , as the lame gelding went over the Umballa jumps .
I may come to Paradise later -- I have workings that way -- great motions -- and I owe them to thy simplicity .
Thou hast never lied ? '
` What need ? ' '
O Allah , hear him !
`` What need '' in this Thy world !
Nor ever harmed a man ? '
` Once -- with a pencase -- before I was wise . '
` So ?
I think the better of thee .
Thy teachings are good .
Thou hast turned one man that I know from the path of strife . '
He laughed immensely .
` He came here open-minded to commit a dacoity -LSB- a house-robbery with violence -RSB- .
Yes , to cut , rob , kill , and carry off what he desired . ' '
A great foolishness ! '
` Oh !
black shame too .
So he thought after he had seen thee -- and a few others , male and female .
So he abandoned it ; and now he goes to beat a big fat Babu man . ' '
I do not understand . '
` Allah forbid it !
Some men are strong in knowledge , Red Hat .
Thy strength is stronger still .
Keep it -- I think thou wilt .
If the boy be not a good servant , pull his ears off . '
With a hitch of his broad Bokhariot belt the Pathan swaggered off into the gloaming , and the lama came down from his clouds so far as to look at the broad back .
` That person lacks courtesy , and is deceived by the shadow of appearances .
But he spoke well of my chela , who now enters upon his reward .
Let me make the prayer !
... Wake , O fortunate above all born of women .
Wake !
It is found ! '
Kim came up from those deep wells , and the lama attended his yawning pleasure ; duly snapping fingers to head off evil spirits . '
I have slept a hundred years .
Where -- ?
Holy One , hast thou been here long ?
I went out to look for thee , but ' -- he laughed drowsily -- ' I slept by the way .
I am all well now .
Hast thou eaten ?
Let us go to the house .
It is many days since I tended thee .
And the Sahiba fed thee well ?
Who shampooed thy legs ?
What of the weaknesses -- the belly and the neck , and the beating in the ears ? '
` Gone -- all gone .
Dost thou not know ? ' '
I know nothing , but that I have not seen thee in a monkey 's age .
Know what ? '
` Strange the knowledge did not reach out to thee , when all my thoughts were theeward . ' '
I can not see the face , but the voice is like a gong .
Has the Sahiba made a young man of thee by her cookery ? '
He peered at the cross-legged figure , outlined jet-black against the lemon-coloured drift of light .
So does the stone Bodhisat sit who looks down upon the patent self-registering turnstiles of the Lahore Museum .
The lama held his peace .
Except for the click of the rosary and a faint clop-clop of Mahbub 's retreating feet , the soft , smoky silence of evening in India wrapped them close .
` Hear me !
I bring news . '
` But let us -- ' Out shot the long yellow hand compelling silence .
Kim tucked his feet under his robe-edge obediently .
` Hear me !
I bring news !
The Search is finished .
Comes now the Reward ... Thus .
When we were among the Hills , I lived on thy strength till the young branch bowed and nigh broke .
When we came out of the Hills , I was troubled for thee and for other matters which I held in my heart .
The boat of my soul lacked direction ; I could not see into the Cause of Things .
So I gave thee over to the virtuous woman altogether .
I took no food .
I drank no water .
Still I saw not the Way .
They pressed food upon me and cried at my shut door .
So I removed myself to a hollow under a tree .
I took no food .
I took no water .
I sat in meditation two days and two nights , abstracting my mind ; inbreathing and outbreathing in the required manner ... Upon the second night -- so great was my reward -- the wise Soul loosed itself from the silly Body and went free .
This I have never before attained , though I have stood on the threshold of it .
Consider , for it is a marvel ! ' '
A marvel indeed .
Two days and two nights without food !
Where was the Sahiba ? '
said Kim under his breath .
` Yea , my Soul went free , and , wheeling like an eagle , saw indeed that there was no Teshoo Lama nor any other soul .
As a drop draws to water , so my Soul drew near to the Great Soul which is beyond all things .
At that point , exalted in contemplation , I saw all Hind , from Ceylon in the sea to the Hills , and my own Painted Rocks at Such-zen ; I saw every camp and village , to the least , where we have ever rested .
I saw them at one time and in one place ; for they were within the Soul .
By this I knew the Soul had passed beyond the illusion of Time and Space and of Things .
By this I knew that I was free .
I saw thee lying in thy cot , and I saw thee falling downhill under the idolater -- at one time , in one place , in my Soul , which , as I say , had touched the Great Soul .
Also I saw the stupid body of Teshoo Lama lying down , and the hakim from Dacca kneeled beside , shouting in its ear .
Then my Soul was all alone , and I saw nothing , for I was all things , having reached the Great Soul .
And I meditated a thousand thousand years , passionless , well aware of the Causes of all Things .
Then a voice cried : `` What shall come to the boy if thou art dead ? ''
and I was shaken back and forth in myself with pity for thee ; and I said : `` I will return to my chela , lest he miss the Way . ''
Upon this my Soul , which is the Soul of Teshoo Lama , withdrew itself from the Great Soul with strivings and yearnings and retchings and agonies not to be told .
As the egg from the fish , as the fish from the water , as the water from the cloud , as the cloud from the thick air , so put forth , so leaped out , so drew away , so fumed up the Soul of Teshoo Lama from the Great Soul .
Then a voice cried : `` The River !
Take heed to the River ! ''
and I looked down upon all the world , which was as I had seen it before -- one in time , one in place -- and I saw plainly the River of the Arrow at my feet .
At that hour my Soul was hampered by some evil or other whereof I was not wholly cleansed , and it lay upon my arms and coiled round my waist ; but I put it aside , and I cast forth as an eagle in my flight for the very place of the River .
I pushed aside world upon world for thy sake .
I saw the River below me -- the River of the Arrow -- and , descending , the waters of it closed over me ; and behold I was again in the body of Teshoo Lama , but free from sin , and the hakim from Decca bore up my head in the waters of the River .
It is here !
It is behind the mango-tope here -- even here ! '
` Allah kerim !
Oh , well that the Babu was by !
Wast thou very wet ? '
` Why should I regard ?
I remember the hakim was concerned for the body of Teshoo Lama .
He haled it out of the holy water in his hands , and there came afterwards thy horse-seller from the North with a cot and men , and they put the body on the cot and bore it up to the Sahiba 's house . '
` What said the Sahiba ? ' '
I was meditating in that body , and did not hear .
So thus the Search is ended .
For the merit that I have acquired , the River of the Arrow is here .
It broke forth at our feet , as I have said .
I have found it .
Son of my Soul , I have wrenched my Soul back from the Threshold of Freedom to free thee from all sin -- as I am free , and sinless !
Just is the Wheel !
Certain is our deliverance !
Come ! '
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Rudyard_Kipling___Puck_of_Pook's_Hill.txt.out
WELAND 'S SWORD Puck 's Song See you the dimpled track that runs , All hollow through the wheat ?
O that was where they hauled the guns That smote King Philip 's fleet !
See you our little mill that clacks , So busy by the brook ?
She has ground her corn and paid her tax Ever since Domesday Book .
See you our stilly woods of oak , And the dread ditch beside ?
O that was where the Saxons broke , On the day that Harold died !
See you the windy levels spread About the gates of Rye ?
O that was where the Northmen fled , When Alfred 's ships came by !
See you our pastures wide and lone , Where the red oxen browse ?
O there was a City thronged and known , Ere London boasted a house !
And see you , after rain , the trace Of mound and ditch and wall ?
O that was a Legion 's camping-place , When Csar sailed from Gaul !
And see you marks that show and fade , Like shadows on the Downs ?
O they are the lines the Flint Men made , To guard their wondrous towns !
Trackway and Camp and City lost , Salt Marsh where now is corn ; Old Wars , old Peace , old Arts that cease , And so was England born !
She is not any common Earth , Water or Wood or Air , But Merlin 's Isle of Gramarye , Where you and I will fare .
The children were at the Theatre , acting to Three Cows as much as they could remember of Midsummer Night 's Dream .
Their father had made them a small play out of the big Shakespeare one , and they had rehearsed it with him and with their mother till they could say it by heart .
They began when Nick Bottom the weaver comes out of the bushes with a donkey 's head on his shoulders , and finds Titania , Queen of the Fairies , asleep .
Then they skipped to the part where Bottom asks three little fairies to scratch his head and bring him honey , and they ended where he falls asleep in Titania 's arms .
Dan was Puck and Nick Bottom , as well as all three Fairies .
He wore a pointy-eared cloth cap for Puck , and a paper donkey 's head out of a Christmas cracker -- but it tore if you were not careful -- for Bottom .
Una was Titania , with a wreath of columbines and a foxglove wand .
The Theatre lay in a meadow called the Long Slip .
A little mill-stream , carrying water to a mill two or three fields away , bent round one corner of it , and in the middle of the bend lay a large old Fairy Ring of darkened grass , which was the stage .
The millstream banks , overgrown with willow , hazel , and guelder-rose , made convenient places to wait in till your turn came ; and a grown-up who had seen it said that Shakespeare himself could not have imagined a more suitable setting for his play .
They were not , of course , allowed to act on Midsummer Night itself , but they went down after tea on Midsummer Eve , when the shadows were growing , and they took their supper -- hard-boiled eggs , Bath Oliver biscuits , and salt in an envelope -- with them .
Three Cows had been milked and were grazing steadily with a tearing noise that one could hear all down the meadow ; and the noise of the Mill at work sounded like bare feet running on hard ground .
A cuckoo sat on a gate-post singing his broken June tune , ` cuckoo-cuk ' , while a busy kingfisher crossed from the mill-stream , to the brook which ran on the other side of the meadow .
Everything else was a sort of thick , sleepy stillness smelling of meadow-sweet and dry grass .
Their play went beautifully .
Dan remembered all his parts -- Puck , Bottom , and the three Fairies -- and Una never forgot a word of Titania -- not even the difficult piece where she tells the Fairies how to feed Bottom with ` apricocks , green figs , and dewberries ' , and all the lines end in ` ies ' .
They were both so pleased that they acted it three times over from beginning to end before they sat down in the unthistly centre of the Ring to eat eggs and Bath Olivers .
This was when they heard a whistle among the alders on the bank , and they jumped .
The bushes parted .
In the very spot where Dan had stood as Puck they saw a small , brown , broad-shouldered , pointy-eared person with a snub nose , slanting blue eyes , and a grin that ran right across his freckled face .
He shaded his forehead as though he were watching Quince , Snout , Bottom , and the others rehearsing Pyramus and Thisbe , and , in a voice as deep as Three Cows asking to be milked , he began : ` What hempen homespuns have we swaggering here , So near the cradle of our fairy Queen ? '
He stopped , hollowed one hand round his ear , and , with a wicked twinkle in his eye , went on : ` What , a play toward ?
I 'll be auditor ; An actor , too , perhaps , if I see cause . '
The children looked and gasped .
The small thing -- he was no taller than Dan 's shoulder -- stepped quietly into the Ring .
` I 'm rather out of practice , ' said he ; ` but that 's the way my part ought to be played . '
Still the children stared at him -- from his dark-blue cap , like a big columbine flower , to his bare , hairy feet .
At last he laughed .
` Please do n't look like that .
It is n't my fault .
What else could you expect ? '
he said .
` We did n't expect any one , ' Dan answered , slowly .
` This is our field . '
` Is it ? '
said their visitor , sitting down .
` Then what on Human Earth made you act Midsummer Night 's Dream three times over , on Midsummer Eve , in the middle of a Ring , and under -- right under one of my oldest hills in Old England ?
Pook 's Hill -- Puck 's Hill -- Puck 's Hill -- Pook 's Hill !
It 's as plain as the nose on my face . '
He pointed to the bare , fern-covered slope of Pook 's Hill that runs up from the far side of the mill-stream to a dark wood .
Beyond that wood the ground rises and rises for five hundred feet , till at last you climb out on the bare top of Beacon Hill , to look over the Pevensey Levels and the Channel and half the naked South Downs .
` By Oak , Ash , and Thorn ! '
he cried , still laughing .
` If this had happened a few hundred years ago you 'd have had all the People of the Hills out like bees in June ! '
` We did n't know it was wrong , ' said Dan .
` Wrong ! '
The little fellow shook with laughter .
` Indeed , it is n't wrong .
You 've done something that Kings and Knights and Scholars in old days would have given their crowns and spurs and books to find out .
If Merlin himself had helped you , you could n't have managed better !
You 've broken the Hills -- you 've broken the Hills !
It has n't happened in a thousand years . '
` We -- we did n't mean to , ' said Una .
` Of course you did n't !
That 's just why you did it .
Unluckily the Hills are empty now , and all the People of the Hills are gone .
I 'm the only one left .
I 'm Puck , the oldest Old Thing in England , very much at your service if -- if you care to have anything to do with me .
If you do n't , of course you 've only to say so , and I 'll go . '
He looked at the children , and the children looked at him for quite half a minute .
His eyes did not twinkle any more .
They were very kind , and there was the beginning of a good smile on his lips .
Una put out her hand .
` Do n't go , ' she said .
` We like you . '
` Have a Bath Oliver , ' said Dan , and he passed over the squashy envelope with the eggs .
` By Oak , Ash and Thorn , ' cried Puck , taking off his blue cap , ' I like you too .
Sprinkle a plenty salt on the biscuit , Dan , and I 'll eat it with you .
That 'll show you the sort of person I am .
Some of us ' -- he went on , with his mouth full -- ` could n't abide Salt , or Horse-shoes over a door , or Mountain-ash berries , or Running Water , or Cold Iron , or the sound of Church Bells .
But I 'm Puck ! '
He brushed the crumbs carefully from his doublet and shook hands .
` We always said , Dan and I , ' Una stammered , ` that if it ever happened we 'd know ex-actly what to do ; but -- but now it seems all different somehow . '
` She means meeting a fairy , ' said Dan . '
I never believed in 'em -- not after I was six , anyhow . ' '
I did , ' said Una .
` At least , I sort of half believed till we learned `` Farewell Rewards '' .
Do you know `` Farewell Rewards and Fairies '' ? '
` Do you mean this ? '
said Puck .
He threw his big head back and began at the second line : ` Good housewives now may say , For now foul sluts in dairies Do fare as well as they ; And though they sweep their hearths no less -LRB- ` Join in , Una ! ' -RRB-
Than maids were wont to do , Yet who of late for cleanliness Finds sixpence in her shoe ? '
The echoes flapped all along the flat meadow .
` Of course I know it , ' he said .
` And then there 's the verse about the rings , ' said Dan .
` When I was little it always made me feel unhappy in my inside . ' '
`` Witness those rings and roundelays '' , do you mean ? '
boomed Puck , with a voice like a great church organ .
` Of theirs which yet remain , Were footed in Queen Mary 's days On many a grassy plain , But since of late Elizabeth , And , later , James came in , Are never seen on any heath As when the time hath been . '
` It 's some time since I heard that sung , but there 's no good beating about the bush : it 's true .
The People of the Hills have all left .
I saw them come into Old England and I saw them go .
Giants , trolls , kelpies , brownies , goblins , imps ; wood , tree , mound , and water spirits ; heath-people , hill-watchers , treasure-guards , good people , little people , pishogues , leprechauns , night-riders , pixies , nixies , gnomes , and the rest -- gone , all gone !
I came into England with Oak , Ash and Thorn , and when Oak , Ash and Thorn are gone I shall go too . '
Dan looked round the meadow -- at Una 's Oak by the lower gate ; at the line of ash trees that overhang Otter Pool where the mill-stream spills over when the Mill does not need it , and at the gnarled old white-thorn where Three Cows scratched their necks .
` It 's all right , ' he said ; and added , ` I 'm planting a lot of acorns this autumn too . '
` Then are n't you most awfully old ? '
said Una .
` Not old -- fairly long-lived , as folk say hereabouts .
Let me see -- my friends used to set my dish of cream for me o ' nights when Stonehenge was new .
Yes , before the Flint Men made the Dewpond under Chanctonbury Ring . '
Una clasped her hands , cried ` Oh ! '
and nodded her head .
` She 's thought a plan , ' Dan explained .
` She always does like that when she thinks a plan . ' '
I was thinking -- suppose we saved some of our porridge and put it in the attic for you ?
They 'd notice if we left it in the nursery . '
` Schoolroom , ' said Dan quickly , and Una flushed , because they had made a solemn treaty that summer not to call the schoolroom the nursery any more .
` Bless your heart o ' gold ! '
said Puck .
` You 'll make a fine considering wench some market-day .
I really do n't want you to put out a bowl for me ; but if ever I need a bite , be sure I 'll tell you . '
He stretched himself at length on the dry grass , and the children stretched out beside him , their bare legs waving happily in the air .
They felt they could not be afraid of him any more than of their particular friend old Hobden the hedger .
He did not bother them with grown-up questions , or laugh at the donkey 's head , but lay and smiled to himself in the most sensible way .
` Have you a knife on you ? '
he said at last .
Dan handed over his big one-bladed outdoor knife , and Puck began to carve out a piece of turf from the centre of the Ring .
` What 's that for -- Magic ? '
said Una , as he pressed up the square of chocolate loam that cut like so much cheese .
` One of my little magics , ' he answered , and cut another .
` You see , I ca n't let you into the Hills because the People of the Hills have gone ; but if you care to take seizin from me , I may be able to show you something out of the common here on Human Earth .
You certainly deserve it . '
` What 's taking seizin ? '
said Dan , cautiously .
` It 's an old custom the people had when they bought and sold land .
They used to cut out a clod and hand it over to the buyer , and you were n't lawfully seized of your land -- it did n't really belong to you -- till the other fellow had actually given you a piece of it -- like this . '
He held out the turves .
` But it 's our own meadow , ' said Dan , drawing back .
` Are you going to magic it away ? '
Puck laughed . '
I know it 's your meadow , but there 's a great deal more in it than you or your father ever guessed .
Try ! '
He turned his eyes on Una .
` I 'll do it , ' she said .
Dan followed her example at once .
` Now are you two lawfully seized and possessed of all Old England , ' began Puck , in a sing-song voice .
` By right of Oak , Ash , and Thorn are you free to come and go and look and know where I shall show or best you please .
You shall see What you shall see and you shall hear What you shall hear , though It shall have happened three thousand year ; and you shall know neither Doubt nor Fear .
Fast !
Hold fast all I give you . '
The children shut their eyes , but nothing happened .
` Well ? '
said Una , disappointedly opening them . '
I thought there would be dragons . ' '
`` Though It shall have happened three thousand year , '' ' said Puck , and counted on his fingers .
` No ; I 'm afraid there were no dragons three thousand years ago . '
` But there has n't happened anything at all , ' said Dan .
` Wait awhile , ' said Puck .
` You do n't grow an oak in a year -- and Old England 's older than twenty oaks .
Let 's sit down again and think .
I can do that for a century at a time . '
` Ah , but you 're a fairy , ' said Dan .
` Have you ever heard me say that word yet ? '
said Puck quickly .
` No .
You talk about `` the People of the Hills '' , but you never say `` fairies '' , ' said Una . '
I was wondering at that .
Do n't you like it ? '
` How would you like to be called `` mortal '' or `` human being '' all the time ? '
said Puck ; ` or `` son of Adam '' or `` daughter of Eve '' ? ' '
I should n't like it at all , ' said Dan .
` That 's how the Djinns and Afrits talk in the Arabian Nights . '
` And that 's how I feel about saying -- that word that I do n't say .
Besides , what you call them are made-up things the People of the Hills have never heard of -- little buzzflies with butterfly wings and gauze petticoats , and shiny stars in their hair , and a wand like a schoolteacher 's cane for punishing bad boys and rewarding good ones .
I know 'em ! '
` We do n't mean that sort , ' said Dan .
` We hate 'em too . '
` Exactly , ' said Puck .
` Can you wonder that the People of the Hills do n't care to be confused with that painty-winged , wand-waving , sugar-and-shake-your-head set of impostors ?
Butterfly wings , indeed !
I 've seen Sir Huon and a troop of his people setting off from Tintagel Castle for Hy-Brasil in the teeth of a sou ' - westerly gale , with the spray flying all over the Castle , and the Horses of the Hills wild with fright .
Out they 'd go in a lull , screaming like gulls , and back they 'd be driven five good miles inland before they could come head to wind again .
Butterfly-wings !
It was Magic -- Magic as black as Merlin could make it , and the whole sea was green fire and white foam with singing mermaids in it .
And the Horses of the Hills picked their way from one wave to another by the lightning flashes !
That was how it was in the old days ! '
` Splendid , ' said Dan , but Una shuddered .
` I 'm glad they 're gone , then ; but what made the People of the Hills go away ? '
Una asked .
` Different things .
I 'll tell you one of them some day -- the thing that made the biggest flit of any , ' said Puck .
` But they did n't all flit at once .
They dropped off , one by one , through the centuries .
Most of them were foreigners who could n't stand our climate .
They flitted early . '
` How early ? '
said Dan . '
A couple of thousand years or more .
The fact is they began as Gods .
The Phoenicians brought some over when they came to buy tin ; and the Gauls , and the Jutes , and the Danes , and the Frisians , and the Angles brought more when they landed .
They were always landing in those days , or being driven back to their ships , and they always brought their Gods with them .
England is a bad country for Gods .
Now , I began as I mean to go on .
A bowl of porridge , a dish of milk , and a little quiet fun with the country folk in the lanes was enough for me then , as it is now .
I belong here , you see , and I have been mixed up with people all my days .
But most of the others insisted on being Gods , and having temples , and altars , and priests , and sacrifices of their own . '
` People burned in wicker baskets ? '
said Dan .
` Like Miss Blake tells us about ? '
` All sorts of sacrifices , ' said Puck .
` If it was n't men , it was horses , or cattle , or pigs , or metheglin -- that 's a sticky , sweet sort of beer .
I never liked it .
They were a stiff-necked , extravagant set of idols , the Old Things .
But what was the result ?
Men do n't like being sacrificed at the best of times ; they do n't even like sacrificing their farm-horses .
After a while , men simply left the Old Things alone , and the roofs of their temples fell in , and the Old Things had to scuttle out and pick up a living as they could .
Some of them took to hanging about trees , and hiding in graves and groaning o ' nights .
If they groaned loud enough and long enough they might frighten a poor countryman into sacrificing a hen , or leaving a pound of butter for them .
I remember one Goddess called Belisama .
She became a common wet water-spirit somewhere in Lancashire .
And there were hundreds of other friends of mine .
First they were Gods .
Then they were People of the Hills , and then they flitted to other places because they could n't get on with the English for one reason or another .
There was only one Old Thing , I remember , who honestly worked for his living after he came down in the world .
He was called Weland , and he was a smith to some Gods .
I 've forgotten their names , but he used to make them swords and spears .
I think he claimed kin with Thor of the Scandinavians . ' '
Heroes of Asgard Thor ? '
said Una .
She had been reading the book .
` Perhaps , ' answered Puck .
` None the less , when bad times came , he did n't beg or steal .
He worked ; and I was lucky enough to be able to do him a good turn . '
` Tell us about it , ' said Dan . '
I think I like hearing of Old Things . '
They rearranged themselves comfortably , each chewing a grass stem .
Puck propped himself on one strong arm and went on : ` Let 's think !
I met Weland first on a November afternoon in a sleet storm , on Pevensey Level -- ' ` Pevensey ?
Over the hill , you mean ? '
Dan pointed south .
` Yes ; but it was all marsh in those days , right up to Horsebridge and Hydeneye .
I was on Beacon Hill -- they called it Brunanburgh then -- when I saw the pale flame that burning thatch makes , and I went down to look .
Some pirates -- I think they must have been Peofn 's men -- were burning a village on the Levels , and Weland 's image -- a big , black wooden thing with amber beads round his neck -- lay in the bows of a black thirty-two-oar galley that they had just beached .
Bitter cold it was !
There were icicles hanging from her deck and the oars were glazed over with ice , and there was ice on Weland 's lips .
When he saw me he began a long chant in his own tongue , telling me how he was going to rule England , and how I should smell the smoke of his altars from Lincolnshire to the Isle of Wight .
I did n't care !
I 'd seen too many Gods charging into Old England to be upset about it .
I let him sing himself out while his men were burning the village , and then I said -LRB- I do n't know what put it into my head -RRB- , `` Smith of the Gods , '' I said , `` the time comes when I shall meet you plying your trade for hire by the wayside . '' '
` What did Weland say ? '
said Una .
` Was he angry ? '
` He called me names and rolled his eyes , and I went away to wake up the people inland .
But the pirates conquered the country , and for centuries Weland was a most important God .
He had temples everywhere -- from Lincolnshire to the Isle of Wight , as he said -- and his sacrifices were simply scandalous .
To do him justice , he preferred horses to men ; but men or horses , I knew that presently he 'd have to come down in the world -- like the other Old Things .
I gave him lots of time -- I gave him about a thousand years -- and at the end of 'em I went into one of his temples near Andover to see how he prospered .
There was his altar , and there was his image , and there were his priests , and there were the congregation , and everybody seemed quite happy , except Weland and the priests .
In the old days the congregation were unhappy until the priests had chosen their sacrifices ; and so would you have been .
When the service began a priest rushed out , dragged a man up to the altar , pretended to hit him on the head with a little gilt axe , and the man fell down and pretended to die .
Then everybody shouted : `` A sacrifice to Weland !
A sacrifice to Weland ! '' '
` And the man was n't really dead ? '
said Una .
` Not a bit .
All as much pretence as a dolls ' tea-party .
Then they brought out a splendid white horse , and the priest cut some hair from its mane and tail and burned it on the altar , shouting , `` A sacrifice ! ''
That counted the same as if a man and a horse had been killed .
I saw poor Weland 's face through the smoke , and I could n't help laughing .
He looked so disgusted and so hungry , and all he had to satisfy himself was a horrid smell of burning hair .
Just a dolls ' tea-party ! '
I judged it better not to say anything then -LRB- ` twould n't have been fair -RRB- , and the next time I came to Andover , a few hundred years later , Weland and his temple were gone , and there was a Christian bishop in a church there .
None of the People of the Hills could tell me anything about him , and I supposed that he had left England . '
Puck turned ; lay on the other elbow , and thought for a long time .
` Let 's see , ' he said at last .
` It must have been some few years later -- a year or two before the Conquest , I think -- that I came back to Pook 's Hill here , and one evening I heard old Hobden talking about Weland 's Ford . '
` If you mean old Hobden the hedger , he 's only seventy-two .
He told me so himself , ' said Dan .
` He 's a intimate friend of ours . '
` You 're quite right , ' Puck replied . '
I meant old Hobden 's ninth great-grandfather .
He was a free man and burned charcoal hereabouts .
I 've known the family , father and son , so long that I get confused sometimes .
Hob of the Dene was my Hobden 's name , and he lived at the Forge cottage .
Of course , I pricked up my ears when I heard Weland mentioned , and I scuttled through the woods to the Ford just beyond Bog Wood yonder . '
He jerked his head westward , where the valley narrows between wooded hills and steep hop-fields .
` Why , that 's Willingford Bridge , ' said Una .
` We go there for walks often .
There 's a kingfisher there . '
` It was Weland 's Ford then , dear .
A road led down to it from the Beacon on the top of the hill -- a shocking bad road it was -- and all the hillside was thick , thick oak-forest , with deer in it .
There was no trace of Weland , but presently I saw a fat old farmer riding down from the Beacon under the greenwood tree .
His horse had cast a shoe in the clay , and when he came to the Ford he dismounted , took a penny out of his purse , laid it on a stone , tied the old horse to an oak , and called out : `` Smith , Smith , here is work for you ! ''
Then he sat down and went to sleep .
You can imagine how I felt when I saw a white-bearded , bent old blacksmith in a leather apron creep out from behind the oak and begin to shoe the horse .
It was Weland himself .
I was so astonished that I jumped out and said : `` What on Human Earth are you doing here , Weland ? '' '
` Poor Weland ! '
sighed Una .
` He pushed the long hair back from his forehead -LRB- he did n't recognize me at first -RRB- .
Then he said : '' You ought to know .
You foretold it , Old Thing .
I 'm shoeing horses for hire .
I 'm not even Weland now , '' he said .
`` They call me Wayland-Smith . '' '
` Poor chap ! '
said Dan .
` What did you say ? '
` What could I say ?
He looked up , with the horse 's foot on his lap , and he said , smiling , `` I remember the time when I would n't have accepted this old bag of bones as a sacrifice , and now I 'm glad enough to shoe him for a penny . '' '
`` Is n't there any way for you to get back to Valhalla , or wherever you come from ? ''
I said . '
`` I 'm afraid not , '' he said , rasping away at the hoof .
He had a wonderful touch with horses .
The old beast was whinnying on his shoulder .
`` You may remember that I was not a gentle God in my Day and my Time and my Power .
I shall never be released till some human being truly wishes me well . '' '
`` Surely , '' said I , `` the farmer ca n't do less than that .
You 're shoeing the horse all round for him . '' '
`` Yes , '' said he , `` and my nails will hold a shoe from one full moon to the next .
But farmers and Weald clay , '' said he , `` are both uncommon cold and sour . ''
` Would you believe it , that when that farmer woke and found his horse shod he rode away without one word of thanks ?
I was so angry that I wheeled his horse right round and walked him back three miles to the Beacon , just to teach the old sinner politeness . '
` Were you invisible ? '
said Una .
Puck nodded , gravely .
` The Beacon was always laid in those days ready to light , in case the French landed at Pevensey ; and I walked the horse about and about it that lee-long summer night .
The farmer thought he was bewitched -- well , he was , of course -- and began to pray and shout .
I did n't care !
I was as good a Christian as he any fair-day in the County , and about four o'clock in the morning a young novice came along from the monastery that used to stand on the top of Beacon Hill . '
` What 's a novice ? '
said Dan .
` It really means a man who is beginning to be a monk , but in those days people sent their sons to a monastery just the same as a school .
This young fellow had been to a monastery in France for a few months every year , and he was finishing his studies in the monastery close to his home here .
Hugh was his name , and he had got up to go fishing hereabouts .
His people owned all this valley .
Hugh heard the farmer shouting , and asked him what in the world he meant .
The old man spun him a wonderful tale about fairies and goblins and witches ; and I know he had n't seen a thing except rabbits and red deer all that night .
-LRB- The People of the Hills are like otters -- they do n't show except when they choose . -RRB-
But the novice was n't a fool .
He looked down at the horse 's feet , and saw the new shoes fastened as only Weland knew how to fasten 'em .
-LRB- Weland had a way of turning down the nails that folks called the Smith 's Clinch . -RRB- '
`` H 'm ! ''
said the novice .
`` Where did you get your horse shod ? ''
` The farmer would n't tell him at first , because the priests never liked their people to have any dealings with the Old Things .
At last he confessed that the Smith had done it .
`` What did you pay him ? ''
said the novice .
`` Penny , '' said the farmer , very sulkily .
`` That 's less than a Christian would have charged , '' said the novice .
`` I hope you threw a ` Thank you ' into the bargain . ''
`` No , '' said the farmer ; `` Wayland-Smith 's a heathen . ''
`` Heathen or no heathen , '' said the novice , `` you took his help , and where you get help there you must give thanks . ''
`` What ? ''
said the farmer -- he was in a furious temper because I was walking the old horse in circles all this time -- `` What , you young jackanapes ? ''
said he .
`` Then by your reasoning I ought to say ` Thank you ' to Satan if he helped me ? ''
`` Do n't roll about up there splitting reasons with me , '' said the novice .
`` Come back to the Ford and thank the Smith , or you 'll be sorry . ''
` Back the farmer had to go .
I led the horse , though no one saw me , and the novice walked beside us , his gown swishing through the shiny dew and his fishing-rod across his shoulders , spear-wise .
When we reached the Ford again -- it was five o'clock and misty still under the oaks -- the farmer simply would n't say `` Thank you . ''
He said he 'd tell the Abbot that the novice wanted him to worship heathen Gods .
Then Hugh the novice lost his temper .
He just cried , `` Out ! ''
put his arm under the farmer 's fat leg , and heaved him from his saddle on to the turf , and before he could rise he caught him by the back of the neck and shook him like a rat till the farmer growled , `` Thank you , Wayland-Smith . '' '
` Did Weland see all this ? '
said Dan .
` Oh yes , and he shouted his old war-cry when the farmer thudded on to the ground .
He was delighted .
Then the novice turned to the oak tree and said , `` Ho , Smith of the Gods !
I am ashamed of this rude farmer ; but for all you have done in kindness and charity to him and to others of our people , I thank you and wish you well . ''
Then he picked up his fishing-rod -- it looked more like a tall spear than ever -- and tramped off down your valley . '
` And what did poor Weland do ? '
said Una .
` He laughed and he cried with joy , because he had been released at last , and could go away .
But he was an honest Old Thing .
He had worked for his living and he paid his debts before he left .
`` I shall give that novice a gift , '' said Weland .
`` A gift that shall do him good the wide world over and Old England after him .
Blow up my fire , Old Thing , while I get the iron for my last task . ''
Then he made a sword -- a dark-grey , wavy-lined sword -- and I blew the fire while he hammered .
By Oak , Ash and Thorn , I tell you , Weland was a Smith of the Gods !
He cooled that sword in running water twice , and the third time he cooled it in the evening dew , and he laid it out in the moonlight and said Runes -LRB- that 's charms -RRB- over it , and he carved Runes of Prophecy on the blade .
`` Old Thing , '' he said to me , wiping his forehead , `` this is the best blade that Weland ever made .
Even the user will never know how good it is .
Come to the monastery . ''
` We went to the dormitory where the monks slept , we saw the novice fast asleep in his cot , and Weland put the sword into his hand , and I remember the young fellow gripped it in his sleep .
Then Weland strode as far as he dared into the Chapel and threw down all his shoeing-tools -- his hammers and pincers and rasps -- to show that he had done with them for ever .
It sounded like suits of armour falling , and the sleepy monks ran in , for they thought the monastery had been attacked by the French .
The novice came first of all , waving his new sword and shouting Saxon battle-cries .
When they saw the shoeing-tools they were very bewildered , till the novice asked leave to speak , and told what he had done to the farmer , and what he had said to Wayland-Smith , and how , though the dormitory light was burning , he had found the wonderful rune-carved sword in his cot .
` The Abbot shook his head at first , and then he laughed and said to the novice : `` Son Hugh , it needed no sign from a heathen God to show me that you will never be a monk .
Take your sword , and keep your sword , and go with your sword , and be as gentle as you are strong and courteous .
We will hang up the Smith 's tools before the Altar , '' he said , `` because , whatever the Smith of the Gods may have been , in the old days , we know that he worked honestly for his living and made gifts to Mother Church . ''
Then they went to bed again , all except the novice , and he sat up in the garth playing with his sword .
Then Weland said to me by the stables : `` Farewell , Old Thing ; you had the right of it .
You saw me come to England , and you see me go .
Farewell ! ''
` With that he strode down the hill to the corner of the Great Woods -- Woods Corner , you call it now -- to the very place where he had first landed -- and I heard him moving through the thickets towards Horsebridge for a little , and then he was gone .
That was how it happened .
I saw it . '
Both children drew a long breath .
` But what happened to Hugh the novice ? '
said Una .
` And the sword ? '
said Dan .
Puck looked down the meadow that lay all quiet and cool in the shadow of Pook 's Hill .
A corncrake jarred in a hay-field near by , and the small trouts of the brook began to jump .
A big white moth flew unsteadily from the alders and flapped round the children 's heads , and the least little haze of water-mist rose from the brook .
` Do you really want to know ? '
Puck said .
` We do , ' cried the children .
` Awfully ! '
` Very good .
I promised you that you shall see What you shall see , and you shall hear What you shall hear , though It shall have happened three thousand year ; but just now it seems to me that , unless you go back to the house , people will be looking for you .
I 'll walk with you as far as the gate . '
` Will you be here when we come again ? '
they asked .
` Surely , sure-ly , ' said Puck .
` I 've been here some time already .
One minute first , please . '
He gave them each three leaves -- one of Oak , one of Ash and one of Thorn .
` Bite these , ' said he .
` Otherwise you might be talking at home of what you 've seen and heard , and -- if I know human beings -- they 'd send for the doctor .
Bite ! '
They bit hard , and found themselves walking side by side to the lower gate .
Their father was leaning over it .
` And how did your play go ? '
he asked .
` Oh , splendidly , ' said Dan .
` Only afterwards , I think , we went to sleep .
it was very hot and quiet .
Do n't you remember , Una ? '
Una shook her head and said nothing . '
I see , ' said her father .
` Late -- late in the evening Kilmeny came home , For Kilmeny had been she could not tell where , And Kilmeny had seen what she could not declare .
But why are you chewing leaves at your time of life , daughter ?
For fun ? '
` No .
It was for something , but I ca n't azactly remember , ' said Una .
And neither of them could till -- A TREE SONG Of all the trees that grow so fair , Old England to adorn , Greater are none beneath the Sun , Than Oak , and Ash , and Thorn .
Sing Oak , and Ash , and Thorn , good Sirs -LRB- All of a Midsummer morn -RRB- !
Surely we sing no little thing , In Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Oak of the Clay lived many a day , Or ever neas began ; Ash of the Loam was a lady at home , When Brut was an outlaw man ; Thorn of the Down saw New Troy Town -LRB- From which was London born -RRB- ; Witness hereby the ancientry Of Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Yew that is old in churchyard mould , He breedeth a mighty bow ; Alder for shoes do wise men choose , And beech for cups also .
But when ye have killed , and your bowl is spilled , And your shoes are clean outworn , Back ye must speed for all that ye need , To Oak and Ash and Thorn !
Ellum she hateth mankind , and waiteth Till every gust be laid , To drop a limb on the head of him That anyway trusts her shade : But whether a lad be sober or sad , Or mellow with ale from the horn , He will take no wrong when he lieth along ` Neath Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Oh , do not tell the Priest our plight , Or he would call it a sin ; But -- we have been out in the woods all night , A-conjuring Summer in !
And we bring you news by word of mouth -- Good news for cattle and corn -- Now is the Sun come up from the South , With Oak , and Ash , and Thorn !
Sing Oak , and Ash , and Thorn , good Sirs -LRB- All of a Midsummer morn -RRB- !
England shall bide till Judgement Tide , By Oak and Ash and Thorn !
YOUNG MEN AT THE MANOR They were fishing , a few days later , in the bed of the brook that for centuries had cut deep into the soft valley soil .
The trees closing overhead made long tunnels through which the sunshine worked in blobs and patches .
Down in the tunnels were bars of sand and gravel , old roots and trunks covered with moss or painted red by the irony water ; foxgloves growing lean and pale towards the light ; clumps of fern and thirsty shy flowers who could not live away from moisture and shade .
In the pools you could see the wave thrown up by the trouts as they charged hither and yon , and the pools were joined to each other -- except in flood time , when all was one brown rush -- by sheets of thin broken water that poured themselves chuckling round the darkness of the next bend .
This was one of the children 's most secret hunting-grounds , and their particular friend , old Hobden the hedger , had shown them how to use it .
Except for the click of a rod hitting a low willow , or a switch and tussle among the young ash-leaves as a line hung up for the minute , nobody in the hot pasture could have guessed what game was going on among the trouts below the banks .
` We 've got half-a-dozen , ' said Dan , after a warm , wet hour . '
I vote we go up to Stone Bay and try Long Pool . '
Una nodded -- most of her talk was by nods -- and they crept from the gloom of the tunnels towards the tiny weir that turns the brook into the mill-stream .
Here the banks are low and bare , and the glare of the afternoon sun on the Long Pool below the weir makes your eyes ache .
When they were in the open they nearly fell down with astonishment .
A huge grey horse , whose tail-hairs crinkled the glassy water , was drinking in the pool , and the ripples about his muzzle flashed like melted gold .
On his back sat an old , white-haired man dressed in a loose glimmery gown of chain-mail .
He was bare-headed , and a nut-shaped iron helmet hung at his saddle-bow .
His reins were of red leather five or six inches deep , scalloped at the edges , and his high padded saddle with its red girths was held fore and aft by a red leather breastband and crupper .
` Look ! '
said Una , as though Dan were not staring his very eyes out .
` It 's like the picture in your room -- `` Sir Isumbras at the Ford '' . '
The rider turned towards them , and his thin , long face was just as sweet and gentle as that of the knight who carries the children in that picture .
` They should be here now , Sir Richard , ' said Puck 's deep voice among the willow-herb .
` They are here , ' the knight said , and he smiled at Dan with the string of trouts in his hand .
` There seems no great change in boys since mine fished this water . '
` If your horse has drunk , we shall be more at ease in the Ring , ' said Puck ; and he nodded to the children as though he had never magicked away their memories a week before .
The great horse turned and hoisted himself into the pasture with a kick and a scramble that tore the clods down rattling .
` Your pardon ! '
said Sir Richard to Dan .
` When these lands were mine , I never loved that mounted men should cross the brook except by the paved ford .
But my Swallow here was thirsty , and I wished to meet you . '
` We 're very glad you 've come , sir , ' said Dan .
` It does n't matter in the least about the banks . '
He trotted across the pasture on the sword side of the mighty horse , and it was a mighty iron-handled sword that swung from Sir Richard 's belt .
Una walked behind with Puck .
She remembered everything now .
` I 'm sorry about the Leaves , ' he said , ` but it would never have done if you had gone home and told , would it ? ' '
I s ` pose not , ' Una answered .
` But you said that all the fair -- People of the Hills had left England . '
` So they have ; but I told you that you should come and go and look and know , did n't I ?
The knight is n't a fairy .
He 's Sir Richard Dalyngridge , a very old friend of mine .
He came over with William the Conqueror , and he wants to see you particularly . '
` What for ? '
said Una .
` On account of your great wisdom and learning , ' Puck replied , without a twinkle .
` Us ? '
said Una .
` Why , I do n't know my Nine Times -- not to say it dodging , and Dan makes the most awful mess of fractions .
He ca n't mean us ! '
` Una ! '
Dan called back .
` Sir Richard says he is going to tell what happened to Weland 's sword .
He 's got it .
Is n't it splendid ? '
` Nay -- nay , ' said Sir Richard , dismounting as they reached the Ring , in the bend of the mill-stream bank .
` It is you that must tell me , for I hear the youngest child in our England today is as wise as our wisest clerk . '
He slipped the bit out of Swallow 's mouth , dropped the ruby-red reins over his head , and the wise horse moved off to graze .
Sir Richard -LRB- they noticed he limped a little -RRB- unslung his great sword .
` That 's it , ' Dan whispered to Una .
` This is the sword that Brother Hugh had from Wayland-Smith , ' Sir Richard said .
` Once he gave it me , but I would not take it ; but at the last it became mine after such a fight as never christened man fought .
See ! '
He half drew it from its sheath and turned it before them .
On either side just below the handle , where the Runic letters shivered as though they were alive , were two deep gouges in the dull , deadly steel .
` Now , what Thing made those ? '
said he . '
I know not , but you , perhaps , can say . '
` Tell them all the tale , Sir Richard , ' said Puck .
` It concerns their land somewhat . '
` Yes , from the very beginning , ' Una pleaded , for the knight 's good face and the smile on it more than ever reminded her of ` Sir Isumbras at the Ford ' .
They settled down to listen , Sir Richard bare-headed to the sunshine , dandling the sword in both hands , while the grey horse cropped outside the Ring , and the helmet on the saddle-bow clinged softly each time he jerked his head .
` From the beginning , then , ' Sir Richard said , ` since it concerns your land , I will tell the tale .
When our Duke came out of Normandy to take his England , great knights -LRB- have ye heard ? -RRB-
came and strove hard to serve the Duke , because he promised them lands here , and small knights followed the great ones .
My folk in Normandy were poor ; but a great knight , Engerrard of the Eagle -- Engenulf De Aquila -- who was kin to my father , followed the Earl of Mortain , who followed William the Duke , and I followed De Aquila .
Yes , with thirty men-at-arms out of my father 's house and a new sword , I set out to conquer England three days after I was made knight .
I did not then know that England would conquer me .
We went up to Santlache with the rest -- a very great host of us . '
` Does that mean the Battle of Hastings -- Ten Sixty-Six ? '
Una whispered , and Puck nodded , so as not to interrupt .
` At Santlache , over the hill yonder ' -- he pointed south-eastward towards Fairlight -- ` we found Harold 's men .
We fought .
At the day 's end they ran .
My men went with De Aquila 's to chase and plunder , and in that chase Engerrard of the Eagle was slain , and his son Gilbert took his banner and his men forward .
This I did not know till after , for Swallow here was cut in the flank , so I stayed to wash the wound at a brook by a thorn .
There a single Saxon cried out to me in French , and we fought together .
I should have known his voice , but we fought together .
For a long time neither had any advantage , till by pure ill-fortune his foot slipped and his sword flew from his hand .
Now I had but newly been made knight , and wished , above all , to be courteous and fameworthy , so I forbore to strike and bade him get his sword again .
`` A plague on my sword , '' said he .
`` It has lost me my first fight .
You have spared my life .
Take my sword . ''
He held it out to me , but as I stretched my hand the sword groaned like a stricken man , and I leaped back crying , `` Sorcery ! '' '
-LSB- The children looked at the sword as though it might speak again . -RSB-
` Suddenly a clump of Saxons ran out upon me and , seeing a Norman alone , would have killed me , but my Saxon cried out that I was his prisoner , and beat them off .
Thus , see you , he saved my life .
He put me on my horse and led me through the woods ten long miles to this valley . '
` To here , d'you mean ? '
said Una .
` To this very valley .
We came in by the Lower Ford under the King 's Hill yonder ' -- he pointed eastward where the valley widens .
` And was that Saxon Hugh the novice ? '
Dan asked .
` Yes , and more than that .
He had been for three years at the monastery at Bec by Rouen , where ' -- Sir Richard chuckled -- ` the Abbot Herluin would not suffer me to remain . '
` Why would n't he ? '
said Dan .
` Because I rode my horse into the refectory , when the scholars were at meat , to show the Saxon boys we Normans were not afraid of an Abbot .
It was that very Saxon Hugh tempted me to do it , and we had not met since that day .
I thought I knew his voice even inside my helmet , and , for all that our Lords fought , we each rejoiced we had not slain the other .
He walked by my side , and he told me how a Heathen God , as he believed , had given him his sword , but he said he had never heard it sing before .
I remember I warned him to beware of sorcery and quick enchantments . '
Sir Richard smiled to himself . '
I was very young -- very young !
` When we came to his house here we had almost forgotten that we had been at blows .
It was near midnight , and the Great Hall was full of men and women waiting news .
There I first saw his sister , the Lady lueva , of whom he had spoken to us in France .
She cried out fiercely at me , and would have had me hanged in that hour , but her brother said that I had spared his life -- he said not how he saved mine from the Saxons -- and that our Duke had won the day ; and even while they wrangled over my poor body , of a sudden he fell down in a swoon from his wounds . '
`` This is thy fault , '' said the Lady lueva to me , and she kneeled above him and called for wine and cloths . '
`` If I had known , '' I answered , `` he should have ridden and I walked .
But he set me on my horse ; he made no complaint ; he walked beside me and spoke merrily throughout .
I pray I have done him no harm . '' '
`` Thou hast need to pray , '' she said , catching up her underlip .
`` If he dies , thou shalt hang . ''
` They bore off Hugh to his chamber ; but three tall men of the house bound me and set me under the beam of the Great Hall with a rope round my neck .
The end of the rope they flung over the beam , and they sat them down by the fire to wait word whether Hugh lived or died .
They cracked nuts with their knife-hilts the while . '
` And how did you feel ? '
said Dan .
` Very weary ; but I did heartily pray for my schoolmate Hugh his health .
About noon I heard horses in the valley , and the three men loosed my ropes and fled out , and De Aquila 's men rode up .
Gilbert de Aquila came with them , for it was his boast that , like his father , he forgot no man that served him .
He was little , like his father , but terrible , with a nose like an eagle 's nose and yellow eyes like an eagle .
He rode tall warhorses -- roans , which he bred himself -- and he could never abide to be helped into the saddle .
He saw the rope hanging from the beam and laughed , and his men laughed , for I was too stiff to rise . '
`` This is poor entertainment for a Norman knight , '' he said , `` but , such as it is , let us be grateful .
Show me , boy , to whom thou owest most , and we will pay them out of hand . '' '
` What did he mean ?
To kill 'em ? '
said Dan .
` Assuredly .
But I looked at the Lady lueva where she stood among her maids , and her brother beside her .
De Aquila 's men had driven them all into the Great Hall . '
` Was she pretty ? '
said Una .
` In all my long life I have never seen woman fit to strew rushes before my Lady lueva , ' the knight replied , quite simply and quietly .
` As I looked at her I thought I might save her and her house by a jest . '
`` Seeing that I came somewhat hastily and without warning , '' said I to De Aquila , `` I have no fault to find with the courtesy that these Saxons have shown me . ''
But my voice shook .
It is -- it was not good to jest with that little man .
` All were silent awhile , till De Aquila laughed .
`` Look , men -- a miracle , '' said he .
`` The fight is scarce sped , my father is not yet buried , and here we find our youngest knight already set down in his Manor , while his Saxons -- ye can see it in their fat faces -- have paid him homage and service !
By the Saints , '' he said , rubbing his nose , `` I never thought England would be so easy won !
Surely I can do no less than give the lad what he has taken .
This Manor shall be thine , boy , '' he said , `` till I come again , or till thou art slain .
Now , mount , men , and ride .
We follow our Duke into Kent to make him King of England . ''
` He drew me with him to the door while they brought his horse -- a lean roan , taller than my Swallow here , but not so well girthed . '
`` Hark to me , '' he said , fretting with his great war-gloves .
`` I have given thee this Manor , which is a Saxon hornets ' nest , and I think thou wilt be slain in a month -- as my father was slain .
Yet if thou canst keep the roof on the hall , the thatch on the barn , and the plough in the furrow till I come back , thou shalt hold the Manor from me ; for the Duke has promised our Earl Mortain all the lands by Pevensey , and Mortain will give me of them what he would have given my father .
God knows if thou or I shall live till England is won ; but remember , boy , that here and now fighting is foolishness and '' -- he reached for the reins -- `` craft and cunning is all . '' '
`` Alas , I have no cunning , '' said I. ' `` Not yet , '' said he , hopping abroad , foot in stirrup , and poking his horse in the belly with his toe .
`` Not yet , but I think thou hast a good teacher .
Farewell !
Hold the Manor and live .
Lose the Manor and hang , '' he said , and spurred out , his shield-straps squeaking behind him .
` So , children , here was I , little more than a boy , and Santlache fight not two days old , left alone with my thirty men-at-arms , in a land I knew not , among a people whose tongue I could not speak , to hold down the land which I had taken from them . '
` And that was here at home ? '
said Una .
` Yes , here .
See !
From the Upper Ford , Weland 's Ford , to the Lower Ford , by the Belle Alle , west and east it ran half a league .
From the Beacon of Brunanburgh behind us here , south and north it ran a full league -- and all the woods were full of broken men from Santlache , Saxon thieves , Norman plunderers , robbers , and deer-stealers .
A hornets ' nest indeed !
` When De Aquila had gone , Hugh would have thanked me for saving their lives ; but the Lady lueva said that I had done it only for the sake of receiving the Manor . '
`` How could I know that De Aquila would give it me ? ''
I said .
`` If I had told him I had spent my night in your halter he would have burned the place twice over by now . '' '
`` If any man had put my neck in a rope , '' she said , `` I would have seen his house burned thrice over before I would have made terms . '' '
`` But it was a woman , '' I said ; and I laughed , and she wept and said that I mocked her in her captivity . '
`` Lady , '' said I , `` there is no captive in this valley except one , and he is not a Saxon . ''
` At this she cried that I was a Norman thief , who came with false , sweet words , having intended from the first to turn her out in the fields to beg her bread .
Into the fields !
She had never seen the face of war ! '
I was angry , and answered , `` This much at least I can disprove , for I swear '' -- and on my sword-hilt I swore it in that place -- `` I swear I will never set foot in the Great Hall till the Lady lueva herself shall summon me there . ''
` She went away , saying nothing , and I walked out , and Hugh limped after me , whistling dolorously -LRB- that is a custom of the English -RRB- , and we came upon the three Saxons that had bound me .
They were now bound by my men-at-arms , and behind them stood some fifty stark and sullen churls of the House and the Manor , waiting to see what should fall .
We heard De Aquila 's trumpets blow thin through the woods Kentward . '
`` Shall we hang these ? ''
said my men . '
`` Then my churls will fight , '' said Hugh , beneath his breath ; but I bade him ask the three what mercy they hoped for . '
`` None , '' said they all .
`` She bade us hang thee if our master died .
And we would have hanged thee .
There is no more to it . ''
` As I stood doubting , a woman ran down from the oak wood above the King 's Hill yonder , and cried out that some Normans were driving off the swine there . '
`` Norman or Saxon , '' said I , `` we must beat them back , or they will rob us every day .
Out at them with any arms ye have ! ''
So I loosed those three carles and we ran together , my men-at-arms and the Saxons with bills and axes which they had hidden in the thatch of their huts , and Hugh led them .
Half-way up the King 's Hill we found a false fellow from Picardy -- a sutler that sold wine in the Duke 's camp -- with a dead knight 's shield on his arm , a stolen horse under him , and some ten or twelve wastrels at his tail , all cutting and slashing at the pigs .
We beat them off , and saved our pork .
One hundred and seventy pigs we saved in that great battle . '
Sir Richard laughed .
` That , then , was our first work together , and I bade Hugh tell his folk that so would I deal with any man , knight or churl , Norman or Saxon , who stole as much as one egg from our valley .
Said he to me , riding home : `` Thou hast gone far to conquer England this evening . ''
I answered : `` England must be thine and mine , then .
Help me , Hugh , to deal aright with these people .
Make them to know that if they slay me De Aquila will surely send to slay them , and he will put a worse man in my place . ''
`` That may well be true , '' said he , and gave me his hand .
`` Better the devil we know than the devil we know not , till we can pack you Normans home . ''
And so , too , said his Saxons ; and they laughed as we drove the pigs downhill .
But I think some of them , even then , began not to hate me . ' '
I like Brother Hugh , ' said Una , softly .
` Beyond question he was the most perfect , courteous , valiant , tender , and wise knight that ever drew breath , ' said Sir Richard , caressing the sword .
` He hung up his sword -- this sword -- on the wall of the Great Hall , because he said it was fairly mine , and never he took it down till De Aquila returned , as I shall presently show .
For three months his men and mine guarded the valley , till all robbers and nightwalkers learned there was nothing to get from us save hard tack and a hanging .
Side by side we fought against all who came -- thrice a week sometimes we fought -- against thieves and landless knights looking for good manors .
Then we were in some peace , and I made shift by Hugh 's help to govern the valley -- for all this valley of yours was my Manor -- as a knight should .
I kept the roof on the hall and the thatch on the barn , but ... the English are a bold people .
His Saxons would laugh and jest with Hugh , and Hugh with them , and -- this was marvellous to me -- if even the meanest of them said that such and such a thing was the Custom of the Manor , then straightway would Hugh and such old men of the Manor as might be near forsake everything else to debate the matter -- I have seen them stop the Mill with the corn half ground -- and if the custom or usage were proven to be as it was said , why , that was the end of it , even though it were flat against Hugh , his wish and command .
Wonderful ! '
` Aye , ' said Puck , breaking in for the first time .
` The Custom of Old England was here before your Norman knights came , and it outlasted them , though they fought against it cruel . '
` Not I , ' said Sir Richard . '
I let the Saxons go their stubborn way , but when my own men-at-arms , Normans not six months in England , stood up and told me what was the custom of the country , then I was angry .
Ah , good days !
Ah , wonderful people !
And I loved them all . '
The knight lifted his arms as though he would hug the whole dear valley , and Swallow , hearing the chink of his chain-mail , looked up and whinnied softly .
` At last , ' he went on , ` after a year of striving and contriving and some little driving , De Aquila came to the valley , alone and without warning .
I saw him first at the Lower Ford , with a swineherd 's brat on his saddle-bow . '
`` There is no need for thee to give any account of thy stewardship , '' said he .
`` I have it all from the child here . ''
And he told me how the young thing had stopped his tall horse at the Ford , by waving of a branch , and crying that the way was barred .
`` And if one bold , bare babe be enough to guard the Ford in these days , thou hast done well , '' said he , and puffed and wiped his head .
` He pinched the child 's cheek , and looked at our cattle in the flat by the river . '
`` Both fat , '' said he , rubbing his nose .
`` This is craft and cunning such as I love .
What did I tell thee when I rode away , boy ? '' '
`` Hold the Manor or hang , '' said I. I had never forgotten it . '
`` True .
And thou hast held . ''
He clambered from his saddle and with his sword 's point cut out a turf from the bank and gave it me where I kneeled . '
Dan looked at Una , and Una looked at Dan .
` That 's seizin , ' said Puck , in a whisper . '
`` Now thou art lawfully seized of the Manor , Sir Richard , '' said he -- 't was the first time he ever called me that -- `` thou and thy heirs for ever .
This must serve till the King 's clerks write out thy title on a parchment .
England is all ours -- if we can hold it . '' '
`` What service shall I pay ? ''
I asked , and I remember I was proud beyond words . '
`` Knight 's fee , boy , knight 's fee ! ''
said he , hopping round his horse on one foot .
-LRB- Have I said he was little , and could not endure to be helped to his saddle ? -RRB-
`` Six mounted men or twelve archers thou shalt send me whenever I call for them , and -- where got you that corn ? ''
said he , for it was near harvest , and our corn stood well .
`` I have never seen such bright straw .
Send me three bags of the same seed yearly , and furthermore , in memory of our last meeting -- with the rope round thy neck -- entertain me and my men for two days of each year in the Great Hall of thy Manor . '' '
`` Alas ! ''
said I , `` then my Manor is already forfeit .
I am under vow not to enter the Great Hall . ''
And I told him what I had sworn to the Lady lueva . '
` And had n't you ever been into the house since ? '
said Una .
` Never , ' Sir Richard answered , smiling . '
I had made me a little hut of wood up the hill , and there I did justice and slept ... De Aquila wheeled aside , and his shield shook on his back .
`` No matter , boy , '' said he .
`` I will remit the homage for a year . '' '
` He meant Sir Richard need n't give him dinner there the first year , ' Puck explained .
` De Aquila stayed with me in the hut , and Hugh , who could read and write and cast accounts , showed him the Roll of the Manor , in which were written all the names of our fields and men , and he asked a thousand questions touching the land , the timber , the grazing , the mill , and the fish-ponds , and the worth of every man in the valley .
But never he named the Lady lueva 's name , nor went he near the Great Hall .
By night he drank with us in the hut .
Yes , he sat on the straw like an eagle ruffled in her feathers , his yellow eyes rolling above the cup , and he pounced in his talk like an eagle , swooping from one thing to another , but always binding fast .
Yes ; he would lie still awhile , and then rustle in the straw , and speak sometimes as though he were King William himself , and anon he would speak in parables and tales , and if at once we saw not his meaning he would yerk us in the ribs with his scabbarded sword . '
`` Look you , boys , '' said he , `` I am born out of my due time .
Five hundred years ago I would have made all England such an England as neither Dane , Saxon , nor Norman should have conquered .
Five hundred years hence I should have been such a counsellor to Kings as the world hath never dreamed of .
'T is all here , '' said he , tapping his big head , `` but it hath no play in this black age .
Now Hugh here is a better man than thou art , Richard . ''
He had made his voice harsh and croaking , like a raven 's . '
`` Truth , '' said I. `` But for Hugh , his help and patience and long-suffering , I could never have kept the Manor . '' '
`` Nor thy life either , '' said De Aquila .
`` Hugh has saved thee not once , but a hundred times .
Be still , Hugh ! ''
he said .
`` Dost thou know , Richard , why Hugh slept , and why he still sleeps , among thy Norman men-at-arms ? '' '
`` To be near me , '' said I , for I thought this was truth . '
`` Fool ! ''
said De Aquila .
`` It is because his Saxons have begged him to rise against thee , and to sweep every Norman out of the valley .
No matter how I know .
It is truth .
Therefore Hugh hath made himself an hostage for thy life , well knowing that if any harm befell thee from his Saxons thy Normans would slay him without remedy .
And this his Saxons know .
Is it true , Hugh ? '' '
`` In some sort , '' said Hugh shamefacedly ; `` at least , it was true half a year ago .
My Saxons would not harm Richard now .
I think they know him -- but I judged it best to make sure . ''
` Look , children , what that man had done -- and I had never guessed it !
Night after night had he lain down among my men-at-arms , knowing that if one Saxon had lifted knife against me , his life would have answered for mine . '
`` Yes , '' said De Aquila .
`` And he is a swordless man . ''
He pointed to Hugh 's belt , for Hugh had put away his sword -- did I tell you ?
-- the day after it flew from his hand at Santlache .
He carried only the short knife and the long-bow .
`` Swordless and landless art thou , Hugh ; and they call thee kin to Earl Godwin . ''
-LRB- Hugh was indeed of Godwin 's blood . -RRB-
`` The Manor that was thine is given to this boy and to his children for ever .
Sit up and beg , for he can turn thee out like a dog , Hugh . ''
` Hugh said nothing , but I heard his teeth grind , and I bade De Aquila , my own overlord , hold his peace , or I would stuff his words down his throat .
Then De Aquila laughed till the tears ran down his face . '
`` I warned the King , '' said he , `` what would come of giving England to us Norman thieves .
Here art thou , Richard , less than two days confirmed in thy Manor , and already thou hast risen against thy overlord .
What shall we do to him , Sir Hugh ? '' '
`` I am a swordless man , '' said Hugh .
`` Do not jest with me , '' and he laid his head on his knees and groaned . '
`` The greater fool thou , '' said De Aquila , and all his voice changed ; `` for I have given thee the Manor of Dallington up the hill this half-hour since , '' and he yerked at Hugh with his scabbard across the straw . '
`` To me ? ''
said Hugh .
`` I am a Saxon , and , except that I love Richard here , I have not sworn fealty to any Norman . '' '
`` In God 's good time , which because of my sins I shall not live to see , there will be neither Saxon nor Norman in England , '' said De Aquila .
`` If I know men , thou art more faithful unsworn than a score of Normans I could name .
Take Dallington , and join Sir Richard to fight me tomorrow , if it please thee ! '' '
`` Nay , '' said Hugh .
`` I am no child .
Where I take a gift , there I render service '' ; and he put his hands between De Aquila 's , and swore to be faithful , and , as I remember , I kissed him , and De Aquila kissed us both .
` We sat afterwards outside the hut while the sun rose , and De Aquila marked our churls going to their work in the fields , and talked of holy things , and how we should govern our Manors in time to come , and of hunting and of horse-breeding , and of the King 's wisdom and unwisdom ; for he spoke to us as though we were in all sorts now his brothers .
Anon a churl stole up to me -- he was one of the three I had not hanged a year ago -- and he bellowed -- which is the Saxon for whispering -- that the Lady lueva would speak to me at the Great House .
She walked abroad daily in the Manor , and it was her custom to send me word whither she went , that I might set an archer or two behind and in front to guard her .
Very often I myself lay up in the woods and watched on her also . '
I went swiftly , and as I passed the great door it opened from within , and there stood my Lady lueva , and she said to me : `` Sir Richard , will it please you enter your Great Hall ? ''
Then she wept , but we were alone . '
The knight was silent for a long time , his face turned across the valley , smiling .
` Oh , well done ! '
said Una , and clapped her hands very softly .
` She was sorry , and she said so . '
` Aye , she was sorry , and she said so , ' said Sir Richard , coming back with a little start .
` Very soon -- but he said it was two full hours later -- De Aquila rode to the door , with his shield new scoured -LRB- Hugh had cleansed it -RRB- , and demanded entertainment , and called me a false knight , that would starve his overlord to death .
Then Hugh cried out that no man should work in the valley that day , and our Saxons blew horns , and set about feasting and drinking , and running of races , and dancing and singing ; and De Aquila climbed upon a horse-block and spoke to them in what he swore was good Saxon , but no man understood it .
At night we feasted in the Great Hall , and when the harpers and the singers were gone we four sat late at the high table .
As I remember , it was a warm night with a full moon , and De Aquila bade Hugh take down his sword from the wall again , for the honour of the Manor of Dallington , and Hugh took it gladly enough .
Dust lay on the hilt , for I saw him blow it off .
` She and I sat talking a little apart , and at first we thought the harpers had come back , for the Great Hall was filled with a rushing noise of music .
De Aquila leaped up ; but there was only the moonlight fretty on the floor . '
`` Hearken ! ''
said Hugh .
`` It is my sword , '' and as he belted it on the music ceased . '
`` Over Gods , forbid that I should ever belt blade like that , '' said De Aquila .
`` What does it foretell ? '' '
`` The Gods that made it may know .
Last time it spoke was at Hastings , when I lost all my lands .
Belike it sings now that I have new lands and am a man again , '' said Hugh .
` He loosed the blade a little and drove it back happily into the sheath , and the sword answered him low and crooningly , as -- as a woman would speak to a man , her head on his shoulder .
` Now that was the second time in all my life I heard this Sword sing . '
... ` Look ! '
said Una .
` There 's Mother coming down the Long Slip .
What will she say to Sir Richard ?
She ca n't help seeing him . '
` And Puck ca n't magic us this time , ' said Dan .
` Are you sure ? '
said Puck ; and he leaned forward and whispered to Sir Richard , who , smiling , bowed his head .
` But what befell the sword and my brother Hugh I will tell on another time , ' said he , rising .
` Oh , Swallow ! '
The great horse cantered up from the far end of the meadow , close to Mother .
They heard Mother say : ` Children , Gleason 's old horse has broken into the meadow again .
Where did he get through ? '
` Just below Stone Bay , ' said Dan .
` He tore down simple flobs of the bank !
We noticed it just now .
And we 've caught no end of fish .
We 've been at it all the afternoon . '
And they honestly believed that they had .
They never noticed the Oak , Ash and Thorn leaves that Puck had slyly thrown into their laps .
SIR RICHARD 'S SONG I followed my Duke ere I was a lover , To take from England fief and fee ; But now this game is the other way over -- But now England hath taken me !
I had my horse , my shield and banner , And a boy 's heart , so whole and free ; But now I sing in another manner -- But now England hath taken me !
As for my Father in his tower , Asking news of my ship at sea ; He will remember his own hour -- Tell him England hath taken me !
As for my Mother in her bower , That rules my Father so cunningly ; She will remember a maiden 's power -- Tell her England hath taken me !
As for my Brother in Rouen city , A nimble and naughty page is he ; But he will come to suffer and pity -- Tell him England hath taken me !
As for my little Sister waiting In the pleasant orchards of Normandie ; Tell her youth is the time of mating -- Tell her England hath taken me !
As for my Comrades in camp and highway , That lift their eyebrows scornfully ; Tell them their way is not my way -- Tell them England hath taken me !
Kings and Princes and Barons famed , Knights and Captains in your degree ; Hear me a little before I am blamed -- Seeing England hath taken me !
Howso great man 's strength be reckoned , There are two things he can not flee ; Love is the first , and Death is the second -- And Love , in England , hath taken me !
THE KNIGHTS OF THE JOYOUS VENTURE HARP SONG OF THE DANE WOMEN What is a woman that you forsake her , And the hearth-fire and the home-acre , To go with the old grey Widow-maker ?
She has no house to lay a guest in -- But one chill bed for all to rest in , That the pale suns and the stray bergs nest in .
She has no strong white arms to fold you , But the ten-times-fingering weed to hold you Bound on the rocks where the tide has rolled you .
Yet , when the signs of summer thicken , And the ice breaks , and the birch-buds quicken , Yearly you turn from our side , and sicken -- Sicken again for the shouts and the slaughters , -- You steal away to the lapping waters , And look at your ship in her winter quarters .
You forget our mirth , and talk at the tables , The kine in the shed and the horse in the stables -- To pitch her sides and go over her cables !
Then you drive out where the storm-clouds swallow : And the sound of your oar-blades falling hollow Is all we have left through the months to follow .
Ah , what is a Woman that you forsake her , And the hearth-fire and the home-acre , To go with the old grey Widow-maker ?
It was too hot to run about in the open , so Dan asked their friend , old Hobden , to take their own dinghy from the pond and put her on the brook at the bottom of the garden .
Her painted name was the Daisy , but for exploring expeditions she was the Golden Hind or the Long Serpent , or some such suitable name .
Dan hiked and howked with a boat-hook -LRB- the brook was too narrow for sculls -RRB- , and Una punted with a piece of hop-pole .
When they came to a very shallow place -LRB- the Golden Hind drew quite three inches of water -RRB- they disembarked and scuffled her over the gravel by her tow-rope , and when they reached the overgrown banks beyond the garden they pulled themselves up stream by the low branches .
That day they intended to discover the North Cape like ` Othere , the old sea-captain ' , in the book of verses which Una had brought with her ; but on account of the heat they changed it to a voyage up the Amazon and the sources of the Nile .
Even on the shaded water the air was hot and heavy with drowsy scents , while outside , through breaks in the trees , the sunshine burned the pasture like fire .
The kingfisher was asleep on his watching-branch , and the blackbirds scarcely took the trouble to dive into the next bush .
Dragonflies wheeling and clashing were the only things at work , except the moorhens and a big Red Admiral , who flapped down out of the sunshine for a drink .
When they reached Otter Pool the Golden Hind grounded comfortably on a shallow , and they lay beneath a roof of close green , watching the water trickle over the flood-gates down the mossy brick chute from the mill-stream to the brook .
A big trout -- the children knew him well -- rolled head and shoulders at some fly that sailed round the bend , while , once in just so often , the brook rose a fraction of an inch against all the wet pebbles , and they watched the slow draw and shiver of a breath of air through the tree-tops .
Then the little voices of the slipping water began again .
` It 's like the shadows talking , is n't it ? '
said Una .
She had given up trying to read .
Dan lay over the bows , trailing his hands in the current .
They heard feet on the gravel-bar that runs half across the pool and saw Sir Richard Dalyngridge standing over them .
` Was yours a dangerous voyage ? '
he asked , smiling .
` She bumped a lot , sir , ' said Dan .
` There 's hardly any water this summer . '
` Ah , the brook was deeper and wider when my children played at Danish pirates .
Are you pirate-folk ? '
` Oh no .
We gave up being pirates years ago , ' explained Una .
` We 're nearly always explorers now .
Sailing round the world , you know . '
` Round ? '
said Sir Richard .
He sat him in the comfortable crotch of an old ash-root on the bank .
` How can it be round ? '
` Was n't it in your books ? '
Dan suggested .
He had been doing geography at his last lesson . '
I can neither write nor read , ' he replied .
` Canst thou read , child ? '
` Yes , ' said Dan , ` barring the very long words . '
` Wonderful !
Read to me , that I may hear for myself . '
Dan flushed , but opened the book and began -- gabbling a little -- at ` The Discoverer of the North Cape . '
` Othere , the old sea-captain , Who dwelt in Helgoland , To King Alfred , the lover of truth , Brought a snow-white walrus tooth , That he held in his brown right hand . '
` But -- but -- this I know !
This is an old song !
This I have heard sung !
This is a miracle , ' Sir Richard interrupted .
` Nay , do not stop ! '
He leaned forward , and the shadows of the leaves slipped and slid upon his chain-mail . '
`` I ploughed the land with horses , But my heart was ill at ease , For the old sea-faring men Came to me now and then With their Sagas of the Seas . '' '
His hand fell on the hilt of the great sword .
` This is truth , ' he cried , ` for so did it happen to me , ' and he beat time delightedly to the tramp of verse after verse . '
`` And now the land , '' said Othere , `` Bent southward suddenly , And I followed the curving shore , And ever southward bore Into a nameless sea . '' ' '
A nameless sea ! '
he repeated .
` So did I -- so did Hugh and I. ' ` Where did you go ?
Tell us , ' said Una .
` Wait .
Let me hear all first . '
So Dan read to the poem 's very end .
` Good , ' said the knight .
` That is Othere 's tale -- even as I have heard the men in the Dane ships sing it .
Not in those same valiant words , but something like to them . '
` Have you ever explored North ? '
Dan shut the book .
` Nay .
My venture was South .
Farther South than any man has fared , Hugh and I went down with Witta and his heathen . '
He jerked the tall sword forward , and leaned on it with both hands ; but his eyes looked long past them . '
I thought you always lived here , ' said Una , timidly .
` Yes ; while my Lady lueva lived .
But she died .
She died .
Then , my eldest son being a man , I asked De Aquila 's leave that he should hold the Manor while I went on some journey or pilgrimage -- to forget .
De Aquila , whom the Second William had made Warden of Pevensey in Earl Mortain 's place , was very old then , but still he rode his tall , roan horses , and in the saddle he looked like a little white falcon .
When Hugh , at Dallington , over yonder , heard what I did , he sent for my second son , whom being unmarried he had ever looked upon as his own child , and , by De Aquila 's leave , gave him the Manor of Dallington to hold till he should return .
Then Hugh came with me . '
` When did this happen ? '
said Dan .
` That I can answer to the very day , for as we rode with De Aquila by Pevensey -- have I said that he was Lord of Pevensey and of the Honour of the Eagle ?
-- to the Bordeaux ship that fetched him his wines yearly out of France , a Marsh man ran to us crying that he had seen a great black goat which bore on his back the body of the King , and that the goat had spoken to him .
On that same day Red William our King , the Conqueror 's son , died of a secret arrow while he hunted in a forest .
`` This is a cross matter , '' said De Aquila , `` to meet on the threshold of a journey .
If Red William be dead I may have to fight for my lands .
Wait a little . ''
` My Lady being dead , I cared nothing for signs and omens , nor Hugh either .
We took that wine-ship to go to Bordeaux ; but the wind failed while we were yet in sight of Pevensey , a thick mist hid us , and we drifted with the tide along the cliffs to the west .
Our company was , for the most part , merchants returning to France , and we were laden with wool and there were three couple of tall hunting-dogs chained to the rail .
Their master was a knight of Artois .
His name I never learned , but his shield bore gold pieces on a red ground , and he limped , much as I do , from a wound which he had got in his youth at Mantes siege .
He served the Duke of Burgundy against the Moors in Spain , and was returning to that war with his dogs .
He sang us strange Moorish songs that first night , and half persuaded us to go with him .
I was on pilgrimage to forget -- which is what no pilgrimage brings .
I think I would have gone , but ... ` Look you how the life and fortune of man changes !
Towards morning a Dane ship , rowing silently , struck against us in the mist , and while we rolled hither and yon Hugh , leaning over the rail , fell outboard .
I leaped after him , and we two tumbled aboard the Dane , and were caught and bound ere we could rise .
Our own ship was swallowed up in the mist .
I judge the Knight of the Gold Pieces muzzled his dogs with his cloak , lest they should give tongue and betray the merchants , for I heard their baying suddenly stop .
` We lay bound among the benches till morning , when the Danes dragged us to the high deck by the steering-place , and their captain -- Witta , he was called -- turned us over with his foot .
Bracelets of gold from elbow to armpit he wore , and his red hair was long as a woman 's , and came down in plaited locks on his shoulder .
He was stout , with bowed legs and long arms .
He spoiled us of all we had , but when he laid hand on Hugh 's sword and saw the runes on the blade hastily he thrust it back .
Yet his covetousness overcame him and he tried again and again , and the third time the Sword sang loud and angrily , so that the rowers leaned on their oars to listen .
Here they all spoke together , screaming like gulls , and a Yellow Man , such as I have never seen , came to the high deck and cut our bonds .
He was yellow -- not from sickness , but by nature -- yellow as honey , and his eyes stood endwise in his head . '
` How do you mean ? '
said Una , her chin on her hand .
` Thus , ' said Sir Richard .
He put a finger to the corner of each eye , and pushed it up till his eyes narrowed to slits .
` Why , you look just like a Chinaman ! '
cried Dan .
` Was the man a Chinaman ? ' '
I know not what that may be .
Witta had found him half dead among ice on the shores of Muscovy .
We thought he was a devil .
He crawled before us and brought food in a silver dish which these sea-wolves had robbed from some rich abbey , and Witta with his own hands gave us wine .
He spoke a little in French , a little in South Saxon , and much in the Northman 's tongue .
We asked him to set us ashore , promising to pay him better ransom than he would get price if he sold us to the Moors -- as once befell a knight of my acquaintance sailing from Flushing . '
`` Not by my father Guthrum 's head , '' said he .
`` The Gods sent ye into my ship for a luck-offering . ''
` At this I quaked , for I knew it was still the Danes ' custom to sacrifice captives to their Gods for fair weather . '
`` A plague on thy four long bones ! ''
said Hugh .
`` What profit canst thou make of poor old pilgrims that can neither work nor fight ? '' '
`` Gods forbid I should fight against thee , poor Pilgrim with the Singing Sword , '' said he .
`` Come with us and be poor no more .
Thy teeth are far apart , which is a sure sign thou wilt travel and grow rich . '' '
`` What if we will not come ? ''
said Hugh . '
`` Swim to England or France , '' said Witta .
`` We are midway between the two .
Unless ye choose to drown yourselves no hair of your head will be harmed here aboard .
We think ye bring us luck , and I myself know the runes on that Sword are good . ''
He turned and bade them hoist sail .
` Hereafter all made way for us as we walked about the ship , and the ship was full of wonders . '
` What was she like ? '
said Dan .
` Long , low , and narrow , bearing one mast with a red sail , and rowed by fifteen oars a-side , ' the knight answered .
` At her bows was a deck under which men might lie , and at her stern another shut off by a painted door from the rowers ' benches .
Here Hugh and I slept , with Witta and the Yellow Man , upon tapestries as soft as wool .
I remember ' -- he laughed to himself -- ` when first we entered there a loud voice cried , `` Out swords !
Out swords !
Kill , kill ! ''
Seeing us start Witta laughed , and showed us it was but a great-beaked grey bird with a red tail .
He sat her on his shoulder , and she called for bread and wine hoarsely , and prayed him to kiss her .
Yet she was no more than a silly bird .
But -- ye knew this ? '
He looked at their smiling faces .
` We were n't laughing at you , ' said Una .
` That must have been a parrot .
It 's just what Pollies do . '
` So we learned later .
But here is another marvel .
The Yellow Man , whose name was Kitai , had with him a brown box .
In the box was a blue bowl with red marks upon the rim , and within the bowl , hanging from a fine thread , was a piece of iron no thicker than that grass stem , and as long , maybe , as my spur , but straight .
In this iron , said Witta , abode an Evil Spirit which Kitai , the Yellow Man , had brought by Art Magic out of his own country that lay three years ' journey southward .
The Evil Spirit strove day and night to return to his country , and therefore , look you , the iron needle pointed continually to the South . '
` South ? '
said Dan suddenly , and put his hand into his pocket .
` With my own eyes I saw it .
Every day and all day long , though the ship rolled , though the sun and the moon and the stars were hid , this blind Spirit in the iron knew whither it would go , and strained to the South .
Witta called it the Wise Iron , because it showed him his way across the unknowable seas . '
Again Sir Richard looked keenly at the children .
` How think ye ?
Was it sorcery ? '
` Was it anything like this ? '
Dan fished out his old brass pocket-compass , that generally lived with his knife and key-ring .
` The glass has got cracked , but the needle waggles all right , sir . '
The knight drew a long breath of wonder .
` Yes , yes !
The Wise Iron shook and swung in just this fashion .
Now it is still .
Now it points to the South . '
` North , ' said Dan .
` Nay , South !
There is the South , ' said Sir Richard .
Then they both laughed , for naturally when one end of a straight compass-needle points to the North , the other must point to the South .
` T , ' said Sir Richard , clicking his tongue .
` There can be no sorcery if a child carries it .
Wherefore does it point South -- or North ? '
` Father says that nobody knows , ' said Una .
Sir Richard looked relieved .
` Then it may still be magic .
It was magic to us .
And so we voyaged .
When the wind served we hoisted sail , and lay all up along the windward rail , our shields on our backs to break the spray .
When it failed , they rowed with long oars ; the Yellow Man sat by the Wise Iron , and Witta steered .
At first I feared the great white-flowering waves , but as I saw how wisely Witta led his ship among them I grew bolder .
Hugh liked it well from the first .
My skill is not upon the water ; and rocks and whirlpools such as we saw by the West Isles of France , where an oar caught on a rock and broke , are much against my stomach .
We sailed South across a stormy sea , where by moonlight , between clouds , we saw a Flanders ship roll clean over and sink .
Again , though Hugh laboured with Witta all night , I lay under the deck with the Talking Bird , and cared not whether I lived or died .
There is a sickness of the sea which for three days is pure death !
When we next saw land Witta said it was Spain , and we stood out to sea .
That coast was full of ships busy in the Duke 's war against the Moors , and we feared to be hanged by the Duke 's men or sold into slavery by the Moors .
So we put into a small harbour which Witta knew .
At night men came down with loaded mules , and Witta exchanged amber out of the North against little wedges of iron and packets of beads in earthen pots .
The pots he put under the decks , and the wedges of iron he laid on the bottom of the ship after he had cast out the stones and shingle which till then had been our ballast .
Wine , too , he bought for lumps of sweet-smelling grey amber -- a little morsel no bigger than a thumbnail purchased a cask of wine .
But I speak like a merchant . '
` No , no !
Tell us what you had to eat , ' cried Dan .
` Meat dried in the sun , and dried fish and ground beans , Witta took in ; and corded frails of a certain sweet , soft fruit , which the Moors use , which is like paste of figs , but with thin , long stones .
Aha !
Dates is the name . '
`` Now , '' said Witta , when the ship was loaded , `` I counsel you strangers to pray to your Gods , for from here on , our road is No Man 's road . ''
He and his men killed a black goat for sacrifice on the bows ; and the Yellow Man brought out a small , smiling image of dull-green stone and burned incense before it .
Hugh and I commended ourselves to God , and Saint Barnabas , and Our Lady of the Assumption , who was specially dear to my Lady .
We were not young , but I think no shame to say whenas we drove out of that secret harbour at sunrise over a still sea , we two rejoiced and sang as did the knights of old when they followed our great Duke to England .
Yet was our leader an heathen pirate ; all our proud fleet but one galley perilously overloaded ; for guidance we leaned on a pagan sorcerer ; and our port was beyond the world 's end .
Witta told us that his father Guthrum had once in his life rowed along the shores of Africa to a land where naked men sold gold for iron and beads .
There had he bought much gold , and no few elephants ' teeth , and thither by help of the Wise Iron would Witta go .
Witta feared nothing -- except to be poor . '
`` My father told me , '' said Witta , `` that a great Shoal runs three days ' sail out from that land , and south of the shoal lies a Forest which grows in the sea .
South and east of the Forest my father came to a place where the men hid gold in their hair ; but all that country , he said , was full of Devils who lived in trees , and tore folk limb from limb .
How think ye ? '' '
`` Gold or no gold , '' said Hugh , fingering his sword , `` it is a joyous venture .
Have at these Devils of thine , Witta ! '' '
`` Venture ! ''
said Witta sourly .
`` I am only a poor sea-thief .
I do not set my life adrift on a plank for joy , or the venture .
Once I beach ship again at Stavanger , and feel the wife 's arms round my neck , I 'll seek no more ventures .
A ship is heavier care than a wife or cattle . ''
` He leaped down among the rowers , chiding them for their little strength and their great stomachs .
Yet Witta was a wolf in fight , and a very fox in cunning .
` We were driven South by a storm , and for three days and three nights he took the stern-oar , and threddled the longship through the sea .
When it rose beyond measure he brake a pot of whale 's oil upon the water , which wonderfully smoothed it , and in that anointed patch he turned her head to the wind and threw out oars at the end of a rope , to make , he said , an anchor at which we lay rolling sorely , but dry .
This craft his father Guthrum had shown him .
He knew , too , all the Leech-Book of Bald , who was a wise doctor , and he knew the Ship-Book of Hlaf the Woman , who robbed Egypt .
He knew all the care of a ship .
` After the storm we saw a mountain whose top was covered with snow and pierced the clouds .
The grasses under this mountain , boiled and eaten , are a good cure for soreness of the gums and swelled ankles .
We lay there eight days , till men in skins threw stones at us .
When the heat increased Witta spread a cloth on bent sticks above the rowers , for the wind failed between the Island of the Mountain and the shore of Africa , which is east of it .
That shore is sandy , and we rowed along it within three bowshots .
Here we saw whales , and fish in the shape of shields , but longer than our ship .
Some slept , some opened their mouths at us , and some danced on the hot waters .
The water was hot to the hand , and the sky was hidden by hot , grey mists , out of which blew a fine dust that whitened our hair and beards of a morning .
Here , too , were fish that flew in the air like birds .
They would fall on the laps of the rowers , and when we went ashore we would roast and eat them . '
The knight paused to see if the children doubted him , but they only nodded and said , ` Go on . '
` The yellow land lay on our left , the grey sea on our right .
Knight though I was , I pulled my oar amongst the rowers .
I caught seaweed and dried it , and stuffed it between the pots of beads lest they should break .
Knighthood is for the land .
At sea , look you , a man is but a spurless rider on a bridleless horse .
I learned to make strong knots in ropes -- yes , and to join two ropes end to end , so that even Witta could scarcely see where they had been married .
But Hugh had tenfold more sea-cunning than I. Witta gave him charge of the rowers of the left side .
Thorkild of Borkum , a man with a broken nose , that wore a Norman steel cap , had the rowers of the right , and each side rowed and sang against the other .
They saw that no man was idle .
Truly , as Hugh said , and Witta would laugh at him , a ship is all more care than a Manor .
` How ?
Thus .
There was water to fetch from the shore when we could find it , as well as wild fruit and grasses , and sand for scrubbing of the decks and benches to keep them sweet .
Also we hauled the ship out on low islands and emptied all her gear , even to the iron wedges , and burned off the weed , that had grown on her , with torches of rush , and smoked below the decks with rushes dampened in salt water , as Hlaf the Woman orders in her Ship-Book .
Once when we were thus stripped , and the ship lay propped on her keel , the bird cried , `` Out swords ! ''
as though she saw an enemy .
Witta vowed he would wring her neck . '
` Poor Polly !
Did he ? '
said Una .
` Nay .
She was the ship 's bird .
She could call all the rowers by name ... Those were good days -- for a wifeless man -- with Witta and his heathen -- beyond the world 's end .
... After many weeks we came on the great Shoal which stretched , as Witta 's father had said , far out to sea .
We skirted it till we were giddy with the sight and dizzy with the sound of bars and breakers , and when we reached land again we found a naked black people dwelling among woods , who for one wedge of iron loaded us with fruits and grasses and eggs .
Witta scratched his head at them in sign he would buy gold .
They had no gold , but they understood the sign -LRB- all the gold-traders hide their gold in their thick hair -RRB- , for they pointed along the coast .
They beat , too , on their chests with their clenched hands , and that , if we had known it , was an evil sign . '
` What did it mean ? '
said Dan .
` Patience .
Ye shall hear .
We followed the coast eastward sixteen days -LRB- counting time by sword-cuts on the helm-rail -RRB- till we came to the Forest in the Sea .
Trees grew there out of mud , arched upon lean and high roots , and many muddy waterways ran all whither into darkness , under the trees .
Here we lost the sun .
We followed the winding channels between the trees , and where we could not row we laid hold of the crusted roots and hauled ourselves along .
The water was foul , and great glittering flies tormented us .
Morning and evening a blue mist covered the mud , which bred fevers .
Four of our rowers sickened , and were bound to their benches , lest they should leap overboard and be eaten by the monsters of the mud .
The Yellow Man lay sick beside the Wise Iron , rolling his head and talking in his own tongue .
Only the Bird throve .
She sat on Witta 's shoulder and screamed in that noisome , silent darkness .
Yes ; I think it was the silence we most feared . '
He paused to listen to the comfortable home noises of the brook .
` When we had lost count of time among those black gullies and swashes we heard , as it were , a drum beat far off , and following it we broke into a broad , brown river by a hut in a clearing among fields of pumpkins .
We thanked God to see the sun again .
The people of the village gave the good welcome , and Witta scratched his head at them -LRB- for gold -RRB- , and showed them our iron and beads .
They ran to the bank -- we were still in the ship -- and pointed to our swords and bows , for always when near shore we lay armed .
Soon they fetched store of gold in bars and in dust from their huts , and some great blackened elephants ' teeth .
These they piled on the bank , as though to tempt us , and made signs of dealing blows in battle , and pointed up to the tree-tops , and to the forest behind .
Their captain or chief sorcerer then beat on his chest with his fists , and gnashed his teeth .
` Said Thorkild of Borkum : `` Do they mean we must fight for all this gear ? ''
and he half drew sword . '
`` Nay , '' said Hugh .
`` I think they ask us to league against some enemy . '' '
`` I like this not , '' said Witta , of a sudden .
`` Back into mid-stream . ''
` So we did , and sat still all , watching the black folk and the gold they piled on the bank .
Again we heard drums beat in the forest , and the people fled to their huts , leaving the gold unguarded .
` Then Hugh , at the bows , pointed without speech , and we saw a great Devil come out of the forest .
He shaded his brows with his hand , and moistened his pink tongue between his lips -- thus . ' '
A Devil ! '
said Dan , delightfully horrified .
` Yea .
Taller than a man ; covered with reddish hair .
When he had well regarded our ship , he beat on his chest with his fists till it sounded like rolling drums , and came to the bank swinging all his body between his long arms , and gnashed his teeth at us .
Hugh loosed arrow , and pierced him through the throat .
He fell roaring , and three other Devils ran out of the forest and hauled him into a tall tree out of sight .
Anon they cast down the blood-stained arrow , and lamented together among the leaves .
Witta saw the gold on the bank ; he was loath to leave it .
`` Sirs , '' said he -LRB- no man had spoken till then -RRB- , `` yonder is what we have come so far and so painfully to find , laid out to our very hand .
Let us row in while these Devils bewail themselves , and at least bear off what we may . ''
` Bold as a wolf , cunning as a fox was Witta !
He set four archers on the foredeck to shoot the Devils if they should leap from the tree , which was close to the bank .
He manned ten oars a-side , and bade them watch his hand to row in or back out , and so coaxed he them toward the bank .
But none would set foot ashore , though the gold was within ten paces .
No man is hasty to his hanging !
They whimpered at their oars like beaten hounds , and Witta bit his fingers for rage .
` Said Hugh of a sudden , `` Hark ! ''
At first we thought it was the buzzing of the glittering flies on the water ; but it grew loud and fierce , so that all men heard . '
` What ? '
said Dan and Una .
` It was the Sword . '
Sir Richard patted the smooth hilt .
` It sang as a Dane sings before battle .
`` I go , '' said Hugh , and he leaped from the bows and fell among the gold .
I was afraid to my four bones ' marrow , but for shame 's sake I followed , and Thorkild of Borkum leaped after me .
None other came .
`` Blame me not , '' cried Witta behind us , `` I must abide by my ship . ''
We three had no time to blame or praise .
We stooped to the gold and threw it back over our shoulders , one hand on our swords and one eye on the tree , which nigh overhung us . '
I know not how the Devils leaped down , or how the fight began .
I heard Hugh cry : `` Out !
out ! ''
as though he were at Santlache again ; I saw Thorkild 's steel cap smitten off his head by a great hairy hand , and I felt an arrow from the ship whistle past my ear .
They say that till Witta took his sword to the rowers he could not bring his ship inshore ; and each one of the four archers said afterwards that he alone had pierced the Devil that fought me .
I do not know .
I went to it in my mail-shirt , which saved my skin .
With long-sword and belt-dagger I fought for the life against a Devil whose very feet were hands , and who whirled me back and forth like a dead branch .
He had me by the waist , my arms to my side , when an arrow from the ship pierced him between the shoulders , and he loosened grip .
I passed my sword twice through him , and he crutched himself away between his long arms , coughing and moaning .
Next , as I remember , I saw Thorkild of Borkum , bare-headed and smiling , leaping up and down before a Devil that leaped and gnashed his teeth .
Then Hugh passed , his sword shifted to his left hand , and I wondered why I had not known that Hugh was a left-handed man ; and thereafter I remembered nothing till I felt spray on my face , and we were in sunshine on the open sea .
That was twenty days after . '
` What had happened ?
Did Hugh die ?
` the children asked .
` Never was such a fight fought by christened man , ' said Sir Richard .
` An arrow from the ship had saved me from my Devil , and Thorkild of Borkum had given back before his Devil , till the bowmen on the ship could shoot it all full of arrows from near by ; but Hugh 's Devil was cunning , and had kept behind trees , where no arrow could reach .
Body to body there , by stark strength of sword and hand , had Hugh slain him , and , dying , the Thing had clenched his teeth on the sword .
Judge what teeth they were ! '
Sir Richard turned the sword again that the children might see the two great chiselled gouges on either side of the blade .
` Those same teeth met in Hugh 's right arm and side , ' Sir Richard went on .
` I ?
Oh , I had no more than a broken foot and a fever .
Thorkild 's ear was bitten , but Hugh 's arm and side clean withered away .
I saw him where he lay along , sucking a fruit in his left hand .
His flesh was wasted off his bones , his hair was patched with white , and his hand was blue-veined like a woman 's .
He put his left arm round my neck and whispered , `` Take my sword .
It has been thine since Hastings , O my brother , but I can never hold hilt again . ''
We lay there on the high deck talking of Santlache , and , I think , of every day since Santlache , and it came so that we both wept .
I was weak , and he little more than a shadow . '
`` Nay -- nay , '' said Witta , at the helm-rail .
`` Gold is a good right arm to any man .
Look -- look at the gold ! ''
He bade Thorkild show us the gold and the elephants ' teeth , as though we had been children .
He had brought away all the gold on the bank , and twice as much more , that the people of the village gave him for slaying the Devils .
They worshipped us as Gods , Thorkild told me : it was one of their old women healed up Hugh 's poor arm . '
` How much gold did you get ?
` asked Dan .
` How can I say ?
Where we came out with wedges of iron under the rowers ' feet we returned with wedges of gold hidden beneath planks .
There was dust of gold in packages where we slept and along the side , and crosswise under the benches we lashed the blackened elephants ' teeth . '
`` I had sooner have my right arm , '' said Hugh , when he had seen all . '
`` Ahai !
That was my fault , '' said Witta .
`` I should have taken ransom and landed you in France when first you came aboard , ten months ago . '' '
`` It is over-late now , '' said Hugh , laughing .
` Witta plucked at his long shoulder-lock .
`` But think ! ''
said he .
`` If I had let ye go -- which I swear I would never have done , for I love ye more than brothers -- if I had let ye go , by now ye might have been horribly slain by some mere Moor in the Duke of Burgundy 's war , or ye might have been murdered by land-thieves , or ye might have died of the plague at an inn .
Think of this and do not blame me overmuch , Hugh .
See !
I will only take a half of the gold . '' '
`` I blame thee not at all , Witta , '' said Hugh .
`` It was a joyous venture , and we thirty-five here have done what never men have done .
If I live till England , I will build me a stout keep over Dallington out of my share . '' '
`` I will buy cattle and amber and warm red cloth for the wife , '' said Witta , `` and I will hold all the land at the head of Stavanger Fiord .
Many will fight for me now .
But first we must turn North , and with this honest treasure aboard I pray we meet no pirate ships . ''
` We did not laugh .
We were careful .
We were afraid lest we should lose one grain of our gold , for which we had fought Devils . '
`` Where is the Sorcerer ? ''
said I , for Witta was looking at the Wise Iron in the box , and I could not see the Yellow Man . '
`` He has gone to his own country , '' said he .
`` He rose up in the night while we were beating out of that forest in the mud , and said that he could see it behind the trees .
He leaped out on the mud , and did not answer when we called ; so we called no more .
He left the Wise Iron , which is all that I care for -- and see , the Spirit still points to the South . ''
` We were troubled for fear that the Wise Iron should fail us now that its Yellow Man had gone , and when we saw the Spirit still served us we grew afraid of too strong winds , and of shoals , and of careless leaping fish , and of all the people on all the shores where we landed . '
` Why ? '
said Dan .
` Because of the gold -- because of our gold .
Gold changes men altogether .
Thorkild of Borkum did not change .
He laughed at Witta for his fears , and at us for our counselling Witta to furl sail when the ship pitched at all . '
`` Better be drowned out of hand , '' said Thorkild of Borkum , `` than go tied to a deck-load of yellow dust . ''
` He was a landless man , and had been slave to some King in the East .
He would have beaten out the gold into deep bands to put round the oars , and round the prow .
` Yet , though he vexed himself for the gold , Witta waited upon Hugh like a woman , lending him his shoulder when the ship rolled , and tying of ropes from side to side that Hugh might hold by them .
But for Hugh , he said -- and so did all his men -- they would never have won the gold .
I remember Witta made a little , thin gold ring for our Bird to swing in .
` Three months we rowed and sailed and went ashore for fruits or to clean the ship .
When we saw wild horsemen , riding among sand-dunes , flourishing spears , we knew we were on the Moors ' coast , and stood over north to Spain ; and a strong south-west wind bore us in ten days to a coast of high red rocks , where we heard a hunting-horn blow among the yellow gorse and knew it was England . '
`` Now find ye Pevensey yourselves , '' said Witta .
`` I love not these narrow ship-filled seas . ''
` He set the dried , salted head of the Devil , which Hugh had killed , high on our prow , and all boats fled from us .
Yet , for our gold 's sake , we were more afraid than they .
We crept along the coast by night till we came to the chalk cliffs , and so east to Pevensey .
Witta would not come ashore with us , though Hugh promised him wine at Dallington enough to swim in .
He was on fire to see his wife , and ran into the Marsh after sunset , and there he left us and our share of gold , and backed out on the same tide .
He made no promise ; he swore no oath ; he looked for no thanks ; but to Hugh , an armless man , and to me , an old cripple whom he could have flung into the sea , he passed over wedge upon wedge , packet upon packet of gold and dust of gold , and only ceased when we would take no more .
As he stooped from the rail to bid us farewell he stripped off his right-arm bracelets and put them all on Hugh 's left , and he kissed Hugh on the cheek .
I think when Thorkild of Borkum bade the rowers give way we were near weeping .
It is true that Witta was an heathen and a pirate ; true it is he held us by force many months in his ship , but I loved that bow-legged , blue-eyed man for his great boldness , his cunning , his skill , and , beyond all , for his simplicity . '
` Did he get home all right ? '
said Dan . '
I never knew .
We saw him hoist sail under the moon-track and stand away .
I have prayed that he found his wife and the children . '
` And what did you do ? '
` We waited on the Marsh till the day .
Then I sat by the gold , all tied in an old sail , while Hugh went to Pevensey , and De Aquila sent us horses . '
Sir Richard crossed hands on his sword-hilt , and stared down stream through the soft warm shadows . '
A whole shipload of gold ! '
said Una , looking at the little Golden Hind .
` But I 'm glad I did n't see the Devils . ' '
I do n't believe they were Devils , ` Dan whispered back .
` Eh ? '
said Sir Richard .
` Witta 's father warned him they were unquestionable Devils .
One must believe one 's father , and not one 's children .
What were my Devils , then ? '
Dan flushed all over .
` I -- I only thought , ' he stammered ; ` I 've got a book called The Gorilla Hunters -- it 's a continuation of Coral Island , sir -- and it says there that the gorillas -LRB- they 're big monkeys , you know -RRB- were always chewing iron up . '
` Not always , ' said Una .
` Only twice . '
They had been reading The Gorilla Hunters in the orchard .
` Well , anyhow , they always drummed on their chests , like Sir Richard 's did , before they went for people .
And they built houses in trees , too . '
` Ha ! '
Sir Richard opened his eyes .
` Houses like flat nests did our Devils make , where their imps lay and looked at us .
I did not see them -LRB- I was sick after the fight -RRB- , but Witta told me , and , lo , ye know it also ?
Wonderful !
Were our Devils only nest-building apes ?
Is there no sorcery left in the world ? ' '
I do n't know , ' answered Dan , uncomfortably .
` I 've seen a man take rabbits out of a hat , and he told us we could see how he did it , if we watched hard .
And we did . '
` But we did n't , ' said Una , sighing .
` Oh !
there 's Puck ! '
The little fellow , brown and smiling , peered between two stems of an ash , nodded , and slid down the bank into the cool beside them .
` No sorcery , Sir Richard ? '
he laughed , and blew on a full dandelion head he had picked .
` They tell me that Witta 's Wise Iron was a toy .
The boy carries such an iron with him .
They tell me our Devils were apes , called gorillas ! '
said Sir Richard , indignantly .
` That is the sorcery of books , ' said Puck . '
I warned thee they were wise children .
All people can be wise by reading of books . '
` But are the books true ? '
Sir Richard frowned . '
I like not all this reading and writing . '
` Ye-es , ' said Puck , holding the naked dandelion head at arm 's length .
` But if we hang all fellows who write falsely , why did De Aquila not begin with Gilbert the Clerk ?
He was false enough . '
` Poor false Gilbert .
Yet , in his fashion , he was bold , ' said Sir Richard .
` What did he do ? '
said Dan .
` He wrote , ' said Sir Richard .
` Is the tale meet for children , think you ? '
He looked at Puck ; but ` Tell us !
Tell us ! '
cried Dan and Una together .
THORKILD 'S SONG There 's no wind along these seas , Out oars for Stavanger !
Forward all for Stavanger !
So we must wake the white-ash breeze , Let fall for Stavanger !
A long pull for Stavanger !
Oh , hear the benches creak and strain !
-LRB- A long pull for Stavanger ! -RRB-
She thinks she smells the Northland rain !
-LRB- A long pull for Stavanger ! -RRB-
She thinks she smells the Northland snow , And she 's as glad as we to go .
She thinks she smells the Northland rime , And the dear dark nights of winter-time .
Her very bolts are sick for shore , And we -- we want it ten times more !
So all you Gods that love brave men , Send us a three-reef gale again !
Send us a gale , and watch us come , With close-cropped canvas slashing home !
But -- there 's no wind in all these seas .
A long pull for Stavanger !
So we must wake the white-ash breeze , A long pull for Stavanger !
OLD MEN AT PEVENSEY ` It has naught to do with apes or Devils , ` Sir Richard went on , in an undertone .
` It concerns De Aquila , than whom there was never bolder nor craftier , nor more hardy knight born .
And remember he was an old , old man at that time . '
` When ? '
said Dan .
` When we came back from sailing with Witta . '
` What did you do with your gold ? '
said Dan .
` Have patience .
Link by link is chain-mail made .
I will tell all in its place .
We bore the gold to Pevensey on horseback -- three loads of it -- and then up to the north chamber , above the Great Hall of Pevensey Castle , where De Aquila lay in winter .
He sat on his bed like a little white falcon , turning his head swiftly from one to the other as we told our tale .
Jehan the Crab , an old sour man-at-arms , guarded the stairway , but De Aquila bade him wait at the stair-foot , and let down both leather curtains over the door .
It was Jehan whom De Aquila had sent to us with the horses , and only Jehan had loaded the gold .
When our story was told , De Aquila gave us the news of England , for we were as men waked from a year-long sleep .
The Red King was dead -- slain -LRB- ye remember ? -RRB-
the day we set sail -- and Henry , his younger brother , had made himself King of England over the head of Robert of Normandy .
This was the very thing that the Red King had done to Robert when our Great William died .
Then Robert of Normandy , mad , as De Aquila said , at twice missing of this kingdom , had sent an army against England , which army had been well beaten back to their ships at Portsmouth .
A little earlier , and Witta 's ship would have rowed through them . '
`` And now , '' said De Aquila , `` half the great Barons of the North and West are out against the King between Salisbury and Shrewsbury , and half the other half wait to see which way the game shall go .
They say Henry is overly English for their stomachs , because he hath married an English wife and she hath coaxed him to give back their old laws to our Saxons .
-LRB- Better ride a horse on the bit he knows , I say ! -RRB-
But that is only a cloak to their falsehood . ''
He cracked his finger on the table , where the wine was spilt , and thus he spoke : -- ' `` William crammed us Norman barons full of good English acres after Santlache .
I had my share too , '' he said , and clapped Hugh on the shoulder ; `` but I warned him -- I warned him before Odo rebelled -- that he should have bidden the Barons give up their lands and lordships in Normandy if they would be English lords .
Now they are all but princes both in England and Normandy -- trencher-fed hounds , with a foot in one trough and both eyes on the other !
Robert of Normandy has sent them word that if they do not fight for him in England he will sack and harry out their lands in Normandy .
Therefore Clare has risen , FitzOsborne has risen , Montgomery has risen -- whom our First William made an English Earl .
Even D'Arcy is out with his men , whose father I remember a little hedge-sparrow knight nearby Caen .
If Henry wins , the Barons can still flee to Normandy , where Robert will welcome them .
If Henry loses , Robert , he says , will give them more lands in England .
Oh , a pest -- a pest on Normandy , for she will be our England 's curse this many a long year ! '' '
`` Amen , '' said Hugh .
`` But will the war come our ways , think you ? '' '
`` Not from the North , '' said De Aquila .
`` But the sea is always open .
If the Barons gain the upper hand Robert will send another army into England for sure , and this time I think he will land here -- where his father , the Conqueror , landed .
Ye have brought your pigs to a pretty market !
Half England alight , and gold enough on the ground '' -- he stamped on the bars beneath the table -- `` to set every sword in Christendom fighting . '' '
`` What is to do ? ''
said Hugh .
`` I have no keep at Dallington ; and if we buried it , whom could we trust ? '' '
`` Me , '' said De Aquila .
`` Pevensey walls are strong .
No man but Jehan , who is my dog , knows what is between them . ''
He drew a curtain by the shot-window and showed us the shaft of a well in the thickness of the wall . '
`` I made it for a drinking-well , '' he said , `` but we found salt water , and it rises and falls with the tide .
Hark ! ''
We heard the water whistle and blow at the bottom .
`` Will it serve ? ''
said he . '
`` Needs must , '' said Hugh .
`` Our lives are in thy hands . ''
So we lowered all the gold down except one small chest of it by De Aquila 's bed , which we kept as much for his delight in its weight and colour as for any of our needs .
` In the morning , ere we rode to our Manors , he said : `` I do not say farewell ; because ye will return and bide here .
Not for love nor for sorrow , but to be with the gold .
Have a care , '' he said , laughing , `` lest I use it to make myself Pope .
Trust me not , but return ! '' '
Sir Richard paused and smiled sadly .
` In seven days , then , we returned from our Manors -- from the Manors which had been ours . '
` And were the children quite well ? '
said Una .
` My sons were young .
Land and governance belong by right to young men . '
Sir Richard was talking to himself .
` It would have broken their hearts if we had taken back our Manors .
They made us great welcome , but we could see -- Hugh and I could see -- that our day was done .
I was a cripple and he a one-armed man .
No ! '
He shook his head .
` And therefore ' -- he raised his voice -- ` we rode back to Pevensey . '
` I 'm sorry , ' said Una , for the knight seemed very sorrowful .
` Little maid , it all passed long ago .
They were young ; we were old .
We let them rule the Manors .
`` Aha ! ''
cried De Aquila from his shot-window , when we dismounted .
`` Back again to earth , old foxes ? ''
but when we were in his chamber above the Hall he puts his arms about us and says , `` Welcome , ghosts !
Welcome , poor ghosts ! ''
... Thus it fell out that we were rich beyond belief , and lonely .
And lonely ! '
` What did you do ? '
said Dan .
` We watched for Robert of Normandy , ' said the knight .
` De Aquila was like Witta .
He suffered no idleness .
In fair weather we would ride along between Bexlei on the one side , to Cuckmere on the other -- sometimes with hawk , sometimes with hound -LRB- there are stout hares both on the Marsh and the Downland -RRB- , but always with an eye to the sea , for fear of fleets from Normandy .
In foul weather he would walk on the top of his tower , frowning against the rain -- peering here and pointing there .
It always vexed him to think how Witta 's ship had come and gone without his knowledge .
When the wind ceased and ships anchored , to the wharf 's edge he would go and , leaning on his sword among the stinking fish , would call to the mariners for their news from France .
His other eye he kept landward for word of Henry 's war against the Barons .
` Many brought him news -- jongleurs , harpers , pedlars , sutlers , priests and the like ; and , though he was secret enough in small things , yet , if their news misliked him , then , regarding neither time nor place nor people , he would curse our King Henry for a fool or a babe .
I have heard him cry aloud by the fishing boats : `` If I were King of England I would do thus and thus '' ; and when I rode out to see that the warning-beacons were laid and dry , he hath often called to me from the shot-window : `` Look to it , Richard !
Do not copy our blind King , but see with thine own eyes and feel with thine own hands . ''
I do not think he knew any sort of fear .
And so we lived at Pevensey , in the little chamber above the Hall .
` One foul night came word that a messenger of the King waited below .
We were chilled after a long riding in the fog towards Bexlei , which is an easy place for ships to land .
De Aquila sent word the man might either eat with us or wait till we had fed .
Anon Jehan , at the stair-head , cried that he had called for horse , and was gone .
`` Pest on him ! ''
said De Aquila .
`` I have more to do than to shiver in the Great Hall for every gadling the King sends .
Left he no word ? '' '
`` None , '' said Jehan , `` except '' -- he had been with De Aquila at Santlache -- `` except he said that if an old dog could not learn new tricks it was time to sweep out the kennel . '' '
`` Oho ! ''
said De Aquila , rubbing his nose , `` to whom did he say that ? '' '
`` To his beard , chiefly , but some to his horse 's flank as he was girthing up .
I followed him out , '' said Jehan the Crab . '
`` What was his shield-mark ? '' '
`` Gold horseshoes on black , '' said the Crab . '
`` That is one of Fulke 's men , '' said De Aquila . '
Puck broke in very gently , ` Gold horseshoes on black is not the Fulkes ' shield .
The Fulkes ' arms are -- ' The knight waved one hand statelily .
` Thou knowest that evil man 's true name , ' he replied , ` but I have chosen to call him Fulke because I promised him I would not tell the story of his wickedness so that any man might guess it .
I have changed all the names in my tale .
His children 's children may be still alive . '
` True -- true , ' said Puck , smiling softly .
` It is knightly to keep faith -- even after a thousand years . '
Sir Richard bowed a little and went on : -- ' `` Gold horseshoes on black ? ''
said De Aquila .
`` I had heard Fulke had joined the Barons , but if this is true our King must be of the upper hand .
No matter , all Fulkes are faithless .
Still , I would not have sent the man away empty . '' '
`` He fed , '' said Jehan .
`` Gilbert the Clerk fetched him meat and wine from the kitchens .
He ate at Gilbert 's table . ''
` This Gilbert was a clerk from Battle Abbey , who kept the accounts of the Manor of Pevensey .
He was tall and pale-coloured , and carried those new-fashioned beads for counting of prayers .
They were large brown nuts or seeds , and hanging from his girdle with his pen and inkhorn they clashed when he walked .
His place was in the great fireplace .
There was his table of accounts , and there he lay o ' nights .
He feared the hounds in the Hall that came nosing after bones or to sleep on the warm ashes , and would slash at them with his beads -- like a woman .
When De Aquila sat in Hall to do justice , take fines , or grant lands , Gilbert would so write it in the Manor-roll .
But it was none of his work to feed our guests , or to let them depart without his lord 's knowledge .
` Said De Aquila , after Jehan was gone down the stair : `` Hugh , hast thou ever told my Gilbert thou canst read Latin hand-of-write ? '' '
`` No , '' said Hugh .
`` He is no friend to me , or to Odo my hound either . '' '
`` No matter , '' said De Aquila .
`` Let him never know thou canst tell one letter from its fellow , and '' -- here he jerked us in the ribs with his scabbard -- `` watch him , both of ye .
There be devils in Africa , as I have heard , but by the Saints , there be greater devils in Pevensey ! ''
And that was all he would say .
` It chanced , some small while afterwards , a Norman man-at-arms would wed a Saxon wench of the Manor , and Gilbert -LRB- we had watched him well since De Aquila spoke -RRB- doubted whether her folk were free or slave .
Since De Aquila would give them a field of good land , if she were free , the matter came up at the justice in Great Hall before De Aquila .
First the wench 's father spoke ; then her mother ; then all together , till the hall rang and the hounds bayed .
De Aquila held up his hands .
`` Write her free , '' he called to Gilbert by the fireplace .
`` A ' God 's name write her free , before she deafens me !
Yes , yes , '' he said to the wench that was on her knees at him ; `` thou art Cerdic 's sister , and own cousin to the Lady of Mercia , if thou wilt be silent .
In fifty years there will be neither Norman nor Saxon , but all English , '' said he , `` and these are the men that do our work ! ''
He clapped the man-at-arms that was Jehan 's nephew on the shoulder , and kissed the wench , and fretted with his feet among the rushes to show it was finished .
-LRB- The Great Hall is always bitter cold . -RRB-
I stood at his side ; Hugh was behind Gilbert in the fireplace making to play with wise rough Odo .
He signed to De Aquila , who bade Gilbert measure the new field for the new couple .
Out then runs our Gilbert between man and maid , his beads clashing at his waist , and the Hall being empty , we three sit by the fire .
` Said Hugh , leaning down to the hearthstones , `` I saw this stone move under Gilbert 's foot when Odo snuffed at it .
Look ! ''
De Aquila digged in the ashes with his sword ; the stone tilted ; beneath it lay a parchment folden , and the writing atop was : `` Words spoken against the King by our Lord of Pevensey -- the second part . ''
` Here was set out -LRB- Hugh read it us whispering -RRB- every jest De Aquila had made to us touching the King ; every time he had called out to me from the shot-window , and every time he had said what he would do if he were King of England .
Yes , day by day had his daily speech , which he never stinted , been set down by Gilbert , tricked out and twisted from its true meaning , yet withal so cunningly that none could deny who knew him that De Aquila had in some sort spoken those words .
Ye see ? '
Dan and Una nodded .
` Yes , ' said Una gravely .
` It is n't what you say so much .
It 's what you mean when you say it .
Like calling Dan a beast in fun .
Only grown-ups do n't always understand . ' '
`` He hath done this day by day before our very face ? ''
said De Aquila . '
`` Nay , hour by hour , '' said Hugh .
`` When De Aquila spoke even now , in the Hall , of Saxons and Normans , I saw Gilbert write on a parchment , which he kept beside the Manor-roll , that De Aquila said soon there would be no Normans left in England if his men-at-arms did their work aright . '' '
`` Bones of the Saints ! ''
said De Aquila .
`` What avail is honour or a sword against a pen ?
Where did Gilbert hide that writing ?
He shall eat it . '' '
`` In his breast when he ran out , '' said Hugh .
`` Which made me look to see where he kept his finished stuff .
When Odo scratched at this stone here , I saw his face change .
So I was sure . '' '
`` He is bold , '' said De Aquila .
`` Do him justice .
In his own fashion , my Gilbert is bold . '' '
`` Overbold , '' said Hugh .
`` Hearken here , '' and he read : `` Upon the Feast of St Agatha , our Lord of Pevensey , lying in his upper chamber , being clothed in his second fur gown reversed with rabbit -- '' ' `` Pest on him !
He is not my tire-woman ! ''
said De Aquila , and Hugh and I laughed . '
`` Reversed with rabbit , seeing a fog over the marshes , did wake Sir Richard Dalyngridge , his drunken cup-mate '' -LRB- here they laughed at me -RRB- `` and said , ` Peer out , old fox , for God is on the Duke of Normandy 's side . '' ' '
`` So did I .
It was a black fog .
Robert could have landed ten thousand men , and we none the wiser .
Does he tell how we were out all day riding the Marsh , and how I near perished in a quicksand , and coughed like a sick ewe for ten days after ? ''
cried De Aquila . '
`` No , '' said Hugh .
`` But here is the prayer of Gilbert himself to his master Fulke . '' '
`` Ah , '' said De Aquila .
`` Well I knew it was Fulke .
What is the price of my blood ? '' '
`` Gilbert prayeth that when our Lord of Pevensey is stripped of his lands on this evidence which Gilbert hath , with fear and pains , collected -- '' ' `` Fear and pains is a true word , '' said De Aquila , and sucked in his cheeks .
`` But how excellent a weapon is a pen !
I must learn it . '' '
`` He prays that Fulke will advance him from his present service to that honour in the Church which Fulke promised him .
And lest Fulke should forget , he has written below , ` To be Sacristan of Battle ' . ''
` At this De Aquila whistled .
`` A man who can plot against one lord can plot against another .
When I am stripped of my lands Fulke will whip off my Gilbert 's foolish head .
None the less Battle needs a new Sacristan .
They tell me the Abbot Henry keeps no sort of rule there . '' '
`` Let the Abbot wait , '' said Hugh .
`` It is our heads and our lands that are in danger .
This parchment is the second part of the tale .
The first has gone to Fulke , and so to the King , who will hold us traitors . ''
`` Assuredly , '' said De Aquila .
`` Fulke 's man took the first part that evening when Gilbert fed him , and our King is so beset by his brother and his Barons -LRB- small blame , too ! -RRB-
that he is mad with mistrust .
Fulke has his ear , and pours poison into it .
Presently the King gives him my land and yours .
This is old , '' and he leaned back and yawned . '
`` And thou wilt surrender Pevensey without word or blow ? ''
said Hugh .
`` We Saxons will fight your King then .
I will go warn my nephew at Dallington .
Give me a horse ! '' '
`` Give thee a toy and a rattle , '' said De Aquila .
`` Put back the parchment , and rake over the ashes .
If Fulke is given my Pevensey , which is England 's gate , what will he do with it ?
He is Norman at heart , and his heart is in Normandy , where he can kill peasants at his pleasure .
He will open England 's gate to our sleepy Robert , as Odo and Mortain tried to do , and then there will be another landing and another Santlache .
Therefore I can not give up Pevensey . '' '
`` Good , '' said we two . '
`` Ah , but wait !
If my King be made , on Gilbert 's evidence , to mistrust me , he will send his men against me here , and while we fight , England 's gate is left unguarded .
Who will be the first to come through thereby ?
Even Robert of Normandy .
Therefore I can not fight my King . ''
He nursed his sword -- thus . '
`` This is saying and unsaying like a Norman , '' said Hugh .
`` What of our Manors ? '' '
`` I do not think for myself , '' said De Aquila , `` nor for our King , nor for your lands .
I think for England , for whom neither King nor Baron thinks .
I am not Norman , Sir Richard , nor Saxon , Sir Hugh .
English am I. '' ' `` Saxon , Norman or English , '' said Hugh , `` our lives are thine , however the game goes .
When do we hang Gilbert ? '' '
`` Never , '' said De Aquila .
`` Who knows , he may yet be Sacristan of Battle , for , to do him justice , he is a good writer .
Dead men make dumb witnesses .
Wait . '' '
`` But the King may give Pevensey to Fulke .
And our Manors go with it , '' said I. `` Shall we tell our sons ? '' '
`` No .
The King will not wake up a hornets ' nest in the South till he has smoked out the bees in the North .
He may hold me a traitor ; but at least he sees I am not fighting against him ; and every day that I lie still is so much gain to him while he fights the Barons .
If he were wise he would wait till that war were over before he made new enemies .
But I think Fulke will play upon him to send for me , and if I do not obey the summons , that will , to Henry 's mind , be proof of my treason .
But mere talk , such as Gilbert sends , is no proof nowadays .
We Barons follow the Church , and , like Anselm , we speak what we please .
Let us go about our day 's dealings , and say naught to Gilbert . '' '
`` Then we do nothing ? ''
said Hugh . '
`` We wait , '' said De Aquila .
`` I am old , but still I find that the most grievous work I know . ''
` And so we found it , but in the end De Aquila was right . '
A little later in the year , armed men rode over the hill , the Golden Horseshoes flying behind the King 's banner .
Said De Aquila , at the window of our chamber : `` How did I tell you ?
Here comes Fulke himself to spy out his new lands which our King hath promised him if he can bring proof of my treason . '' '
`` How dost thou know ? ''
said Hugh . '
`` Because that is what I would do if I were Fulke , but I should have brought more men .
My roan horse to your old shoes , '' said he , `` Fulke brings me the King 's Summons to leave Pevensey and join the war . ''
He sucked in his cheeks and drummed on the edge of the shaft , where the water sounded all hollow . '
`` Shall we go ? ''
said I. ' `` Go !
At this time of year ?
Stark madness , '' said he .
`` Take me from Pevensey to fisk and flyte through fern and forest , and in three days Robert 's keels would be lying on Pevensey mud with ten thousand men !
Who would stop them -- Fulke ? ''
` The horns blew without , and anon Fulke cried the King 's Summons at the great door , that De Aquila with all men and horse should join the King 's camp at Salisbury . '
`` How did I tell you ? ''
said De Aquila .
`` There are twenty Barons ` twixt here and Salisbury could give King Henry good land service , but he has been worked upon by Fulke to send South and call me -- me !
-- off the Gate of England , when his enemies stand about to batter it in .
See that Fulke 's men lie in the big south barn , '' said he .
`` Give them drink , and when Fulke has eaten we will drink in my chamber .
The Great Hall is too cold for old bones . ''
` As soon as he was off-horse Fulke went to the chapel with Gilbert to give thanks for his safe coming , and when he had eaten -- he was a fat man , and rolled his eyes greedily at our good roast Sussex wheatears -- we led him to the little upper chamber , whither Gilbert had already gone with the Manor-roll .
I remember when Fulke heard the tide blow and whistle in the shaft he leaped back , and his long down-turned stirrup-shoes caught in the rushes and he stumbled , so that Jehan behind him found it easy to knock his head against the wall . '
` Did you know it was going to happen ? '
said Dan .
` Assuredly , ' said Sir Richard , with a sweet smile . '
I put my foot on his sword and plucked away his dagger , but he knew not whether it was day or night for awhile .
He lay rolling his eyes and bubbling with his mouth , and Jehan roped him like a calf .
He was cased all in that newfangled armour which we call lizard-mail .
Not rings like my hauberk here ' -- Sir Richard tapped his chest -- but little pieces of dagger-proof steel overlapping on stout leather .
We stripped it off -LRB- no need to spoil good harness by wetting it -RRB- , and in the neck-piece De Aquila found the same folden piece of parchment which we had put back under the hearthstone .
` At this Gilbert would have run out .
I laid my hand on his shoulder .
It sufficed .
He fell to trembling and praying on his beads . '
`` Gilbert , '' said De Aquila , `` here be more notable sayings and doings of our Lord of Pevensey for thee to write down .
Take pen and ink-horn , Gilbert .
We can not all be Sacristans of Battle . ''
` Said Fulke from the floor , `` Ye have bound a King 's messenger .
Pevensey shall burn for this . '' '
`` Maybe .
I have seen it besieged once , '' said De Aquila , `` but heart up , Fulke .
I promise thee that thou shalt be hanged in the middle of the flames at the end of that siege , if I have to share my last loaf with thee ; and that is more than Odo would have done when we starved out him and Mortain . ''
` Then Fulke sat up and looked long and cunningly at De Aquila . '
`` By the Saints , '' said he , `` why didst thou not say thou wast on the Duke Robert 's side at the first ? '' '
`` Am I ? ''
said De Aquila .
` Fulke laughed and said , `` No man who serves King Henry dare do this much to his messenger .
When didst thou come over to the Duke ?
Let me up and we can smooth it out together . ''
And he smiled and becked and winked . '
`` Yes , we will smooth it out , '' said De Aquila .
He nodded to me , and Jehan and I heaved up Fulke -- he was a heavy man -- and lowered him into the shaft by a rope , not so as to stand on our gold , but dangling by his shoulders a little above .
It was turn of ebb , and the water came to his knees .
He said nothing , but shivered somewhat .
` Then jehan of a sudden beat down Gilbert 's wrist with his sheathed dagger .
`` Stop ! ''
he said .
`` He swallows his beads . '' '
`` Poison , belike , '' said De Aquila .
`` It is good for men who know too much .
I have carried it these thirty years .
Give me ! ''
` Then Gilbert wept and howled .
De Aquila ran the beads through his fingers .
The last one -- I have said they were large nuts -- opened in two halves on a pin , and there was a small folded parchment within .
On it was written : '' The Old Dog goes to Salisbury to be beaten .
I have his Kennel .
Come quickly . '' '
`` This is worse than poison , '' said De Aquila , very softly , and sucked in his cheeks .
Then Gilbert grovelled in the rushes , and told us all he knew .
The letter , as we guessed , was from Fulke to the Duke -LRB- and not the first that had passed between them -RRB- ; Fulke had given it to Gilbert in the chapel , and Gilbert thought to have taken it by morning to a certain fishing boat at the wharf , which trafficked between Pevensey and the French shore .
Gilbert was a false fellow , but he found time between his quakings and shakings to swear that the master of the boat knew nothing of the matter . '
`` He hath called me shaved head , '' said Gilbert , `` and he hath thrown haddock-guts at me ; but for all that , he is no traitor . '' '
`` I will have no clerk of mine mishandled or miscalled , '' said De Aquila .
`` That seaman shall be whipped at his own mast .
Write me first a letter , and thou shalt bear it , with the order for the whipping , to-morrow to the boat . ''
` At this Gilbert would have kissed De Aquila 's hand -- he had not hoped to live until the morning -- and when he trembled less he wrote a letter as from Fulke to the Duke , saying that the Kennel , which signified Pevensey , was shut , and that the Old Dog -LRB- which was De Aquila -RRB- sat outside it , and , moreover , that all had been betrayed . '
`` Write to any man that all is betrayed , '' said De Aquila , `` and even the Pope himself would sleep uneasily .
Eh , Jehan ?
If one told thee all was betrayed , what wouldst thou do ? '' '
`` I would run away , '' said Jehan .
`` it might be true . '' '
`` Well said , '' quoth De Aquila .
`` Write , Gilbert , that Montgomery , the great Earl , hath made his peace with the King , and that little D'Arcy , whom I hate , hath been hanged by the heels .
We will give Robert full measure to chew upon .
Write also that Fulke himself is sick to death of a dropsy . '' '
`` Nay ! ''
cried Fulke , hanging in the well-shaft .
`` Drown me out of hand , but do not make a jest of me . '' '
`` Jest ?
I ? ''
said De Aquila .
`` I am but fighting for life and lands with a pen , as thou hast shown me , Fulke . ''
` Then Fulke groaned , for he was cold , and , `` Let me confess , '' said he . '
`` Now , this is right neighbourly , '' said De Aquila , leaning over the shaft .
`` Thou hast read my sayings and doings -- or at least the first part of them -- and thou art minded to repay me with thy own doings and sayings .
Take pen and inkhorn , Gilbert .
Here is work that will not irk thee . '' '
`` Let my men go without hurt , and I will confess my treason against the King , '' said Fulke . '
`` Now , why has he grown so tender of his men of a sudden ? ''
said Hugh to me ; for Fulke had no name for mercy to his men .
Plunder he gave them , but pity , none . '
`` T !
T ! ''
said De Aquila .
`` Thy treason was all confessed long ago by Gilbert .
It would be enough to hang Montgomery himself . '' '
`` Nay ; but spare my men , '' said Fulke ; and we heard him splash like a fish in a pond , for the tide was rising . '
`` All in good time , '' said De Aquila .
`` The night is young ; the wine is old ; and we need only the merry tale .
Begin the story of thy life since when thou wast a lad at Tours .
Tell it nimbly ! '' '
`` Ye shame me to my soul , '' said Fulke . '
`` Then I have done what neither King nor Duke could do , '' said De Aquila .
`` But begin , and forget nothing . '' '
`` Send thy man away , '' said Fulke . '
`` That much can I do , '' said De Aquila .
`` But , remember , I am like the Danes ' King ; I can not turn the tide . '' '
`` How long will it rise ? ''
said Fulke , and splashed anew . '
`` For three hours , '' said De Aquila .
`` Time to tell all thy good deeds .
Begin , and Gilbert , -- I have heard thou art somewhat careless -- do not twist his words from his true meaning . ''
` So -- fear of death in the dark being upon him -- Fulke began , and Gilbert , not knowing what his fate might be , wrote it word by word .
I have heard many tales , but never heard I aught to match the tale of Fulke his black life , as Fulke told it hollowly , hanging in the shaft . '
` Was it bad ? '
said Dan , awestruck .
` Beyond belief , ' Sir Richard answered .
` None the less , there was that in it which forced even Gilbert to laugh .
We three laughed till we ached .
At one place his teeth so chattered that we could not well hear , and we reached him down a cup of wine .
Then he warmed to it , and smoothly set out all his shifts , malices , and treacheries , his extreme boldnesses -LRB- he was desperate bold -RRB- ; his retreats , shufflings , and counterfeitings -LRB- he was also inconceivably a coward -RRB- ; his lack of gear and honour ; his despair at their loss ; his remedies , and well-coloured contrivances .
Yes , he waved the filthy rags of his life before us , as though they had been some proud banner .
When he ceased , we saw by torches that the tide stood at the corners of his mouth , and he breathed strongly through his nose .
` We had him out , and rubbed him ; we wrapped him in a cloak , and gave him wine , and we leaned and looked upon him , the while he drank .
He was shivering , but shameless .
` Of a sudden we heard Jehan at the stairway wake , but a boy pushed past him , and stood before us , the hall rushes in his hair , all slubbered with sleep .
`` My father !
My father !
I dreamed of treachery , '' he cried , and babbled thickly . '
`` There is no treachery here , '' said Fulke .
`` Go ! ''
and the boy turned , even then not fully awake , and Jehan led him by the hand to the Great Hall . '
`` Thy only son ! ''
said De Aquila .
`` Why didst thou bring the child here ? '' '
`` He is my heir .
I dared not trust him to my brother , '' said Fulke , and now he was ashamed .
De Aquila said nothing , but sat weighing a wine cup in his two hands -- thus .
Anon , Fulke touched him on the knee . '
`` Let the boy escape to Normandy , '' said he , `` and do with me at thy pleasure .
Yea , hang me tomorrow , with my letter to Robert round my neck , but let the boy go . '' '
`` Be still , '' said De Aquila .
`` I think for England . ''
` So we waited what our Lord of Pevensey should devise ; and the sweat ran down Fulke 's forehead .
` At last said De Aquila : `` I am too old to judge , or to trust any man .
I do not covet thy lands , as thou hast coveted mine ; and whether thou art any better or any worse than any other black Angevin thief , it is for thy King to find out .
Therefore , go back to thy King , Fulke . '' '
`` And thou wilt say nothing of what has passed ? ''
said Fulke . '
`` Why should I ?
Thy son will stay with me .
If the King calls me again to leave Pevensey , which I must guard against England 's enemies ; if the King sends his men against me for a traitor ; or if I hear that the King in his bed thinks any evil of me or my two knights , thy son will be hanged from out this window , Fulke . '' '
` But it had n't anything to do with his son , ' cried Una , startled .
` How could we have hanged Fulke ? '
said Sir Richard .
` We needed him to make our peace with the King .
He would have betrayed half England for the boy 's sake .
Of that we were sure . ' '
I do n't understand , ' said Una .
` But I think it was simply awful . '
` So did not Fulke .
He was well pleased . '
` What ?
Because his son was going to be killed ? '
` Nay .
Because De Aquila had shown him how he might save the boy 's life and his own lands and honours .
`` I will do it , '' he said .
`` I swear I will do it .
I will tell the King thou art no traitor , but the most excellent , valiant , and perfect of us all .
Yes , I will save thee . ''
` De Aquila looked still into the bottom of the cup , rolling the wine-dregs to and fro . '
`` Ay , '' he said .
`` If I had a son , I would , I think , save him .
But do not by any means tell me how thou wilt go about it . '' '
`` Nay , nay , '' said Fulke , nodding his bald head wisely .
`` That is my secret .
But rest at ease , De Aquila , no hair of thy head nor rood of thy land shall be forfeited , '' and he smiled like one planning great good deeds . '
`` And henceforward , '' said De Aquila , `` I counsel thee to serve one master -- not two . '' '
`` What ? ''
said Fulke .
`` Can I work no more honest trading between the two sides these troublous times ? '' '
`` Serve Robert or the King -- England or Normandy , '' said De Aquila .
`` I care not which it is , but make thy choice here and now . '' '
`` The King , then , '' said Fulke , `` for I see he is better served than Robert .
Shall I swear it ? '' '
`` No need , '' said De Aquila , and he laid his hand on the parchments which Gilbert had written .
`` It shall be some part of my Gilbert 's penance to copy out the savoury tale of thy life , till we have made ten , twenty , an hundred , maybe , copies .
How many cattle , think you , would the Bishop of Tours give for that tale ?
Or thy brother ?
Or the Monks of Blois ?
Minstrels will turn it into songs which thy own Saxon serfs shall sing behind their plough-stilts , and men-at-arms riding through thy Norman towns .
From here to Rome , Fulke , men will make very merry over that tale , and how Fulke told it , hanging in a well , like a drowned puppy .
This shall be thy punishment , if ever I find thee double-dealing with thy King any more .
Meantime , the parchments stay here with thy son .
Him I will return to thee when thou hast made my peace with the King .
The parchments never . ''
` Fulke hid his face and groaned . '
`` Bones of the Saints ! ''
said De Aquila , laughing .
`` The pen cuts deep .
I could never have fetched that grunt out of thee with any sword . '' '
`` But so long as I do not anger thee , my tale will be secret ? ''
said Fulke . '
`` Just so long .
Does that comfort thee , Fulke ? ''
said De Aquila . '
`` What other comfort have ye left me ? ''
he said , and of a sudden he wept hopelessly like a child , dropping his face on his knees . '
` Poor Fulke , ' said Una . '
I pitied him also , ' said Sir Richard . '
`` After the spur , corn , '' said De Aquila , and he threw Fulke three wedges of gold that he had taken from our little chest by the bedplace . '
`` If I had known this , '' said Fulke , catching his breath , `` I would never have lifted hand against Pevensey .
Only lack of this yellow stuff has made me so unlucky in my dealings . ''
` It was dawn then , and they stirred in the Great Hall below .
We sent down Fulke 's mail to be scoured , and when he rode away at noon under his own and the King 's banner , very splendid and stately did he show .
He smoothed his long beard , and called his son to his stirrup and kissed him .
De Aquila rode with him as far as the New Mill landward .
We thought the night had been all a dream . '
` But did he make it right with the King ? '
Dan asked .
` About your not being traitors , I mean . '
Sir Richard smiled .
` The King sent no second summons to Pevensey , nor did he ask why De Aquila had not obeyed the first .
Yes , that was Fulke 's work .
I know not how he did it , but it was well and swiftly done . '
` Then you did n't do anything to his son ? '
said Una .
` The boy ?
Oh , he was an imp !
He turned the keep doors out of dortoirs while we had him .
He sang foul songs , learned in the Barons ' camps -- poor fool ; he set the hounds fighting in Hall ; he lit the rushes to drive out , as he said , the fleas ; he drew his dagger on Jehan , who threw him down the stairway for it ; and he rode his horse through crops and among sheep .
But when we had beaten him , and showed him wolf and deer , he followed us old men like a young , eager hound , and called us `` uncle '' .
His father came the summer 's end to take him away , but the boy had no lust to go , because of the otter-hunting , and he stayed on till the fox-hunting .
I gave him a bittern 's claw to bring him good luck at shooting .
An imp , if ever there was ! '
` And what happened to Gilbert ? '
said Dan .
` Not even a whipping .
De Aquila said he would sooner a clerk , however false , that knew the Manor-roll than a fool , however true , that must be taught his work afresh .
Moreover , after that night I think Gilbert loved as much as he feared De Aquila .
At least he would not leave us -- not even when Vivian , the King 's Clerk , would have made him Sacristan of Battle Abbey .
A false fellow , but , in his fashion , bold . '
` Did Robert ever land in Pevensey after all ? '
Dan went on .
` We guarded the coast too well while Henry was fighting his Barons ; and three or four years later , when England had peace , Henry crossed to Normandy and showed his brother some work at Tenchebrai that cured Robert of fighting .
Many of Henry 's men sailed from Pevensey to that war .
Fulke came , I remember , and we all four lay in the little chamber once again , and drank together .
De Aquila was right .
One should not judge men .
Fulke was merry .
Yes , always merry -- with a catch in his breath . '
` And what did you do afterwards ? '
said Una .
` We talked together of times past .
That is all men can do when they grow old , little maid . '
The bell for tea rang faintly across the meadows .
Dan lay in the bows of the Golden Hind ; Una in the stern , the book of verses open in her lap , was reading from ` The Slave 's Dream ' : ` Again , in the mist and shadow of sleep , He saw his native land . ' '
I do n't know when you began that , ' said Dan , sleepily .
On the middle thwart of the boat , beside Una 's sun-bonnet , lay an Oak leaf , an Ash leaf , and a Thorn leaf , that must have dropped down from the trees above ; and the brook giggled as though it had just seen some joke .
THE RUNES ON WELAND 'S SWORD A Smith makes me To betray my Man In my first fight .
To gather Gold At the world 's end I am sent .
The Gold I gather Comes into England Out of deep Water .
Like a shining Fish Then it descends Into deep Water .
It is not given For goods or gear , But for The Thing .
The Gold I gather A King covets For an ill use .
The Gold I gather Is drawn up Out of deep Water .
Like a shining Fish Then it descends Into deep Water .
It is not given For goods or gear , But for The Thing .
A CENTURION OF THE THIRTIETH Cities and Thrones and Powers Stand in Time 's eye , Almost as long as flowers , Which daily die .
But , as new buds put forth To glad new men , Out of the spent and unconsidered Earth , The Cities rise again .
This season 's Daffodil , She never hears , What change , what chance , what chill , Cut down last year 's : But with bold countenance , And knowledge small , Esteems her seven days ' continuance To be perpetual .
So Time that is o'er-kind , To all that be , Ordains us e ` en as blind , As bold as she : That in our very death , And burial sure , Shadow to shadow , well persuaded , saith , ` See how our works endure ! '
A Centurion of the Thirtieth Dan had come to grief over his Latin , and was kept in ; so Una went alone to Far Wood .
Dan 's big catapult and the lead bullets that Hobden had made for him were hidden in an old hollow beech-stub on the west of the wood .
They had named the place out of the verse in Lays of Ancient Rome : From lordly Volaterrae , Where scowls the far-famed hold Piled by the hands of giants For Godlike Kings of old .
They were the ` Godlike Kings ' , and when old Hobden piled some comfortable brushwood between the big wooden knees of Volaterrae , they called him ` Hands of Giants ' .
Una slipped through their private gap in the fence , and sat still awhile , scowling as scowlily and lordlily as she knew how ; for Volaterrae is an important watch-tower that juts out of Far Wood just as Far Wood juts out of the hillside .
Pook 's Hill lay below her and all the turns of the brook as it wanders out of the Willingford Woods , between hop-gardens , to old Hobden 's cottage at the Forge .
The Sou ' - West wind -LRB- there is always a wind by Volaterrae -RRB- blew from the bare ridge where Cherry Clack Windmill stands .
Now wind prowling through woods sounds like exciting things going to happen , and that is why on blowy days you stand up in Volaterrae and shout bits of the Lays to suit its noises .
Una took Dan 's catapult from its secret place , and made ready to meet Lars Porsena 's army stealing through the wind-whitened aspens by the brook .
A gust boomed up the valley , and Una chanted sorrowfully : ` Verbenna down to Ostia Hath wasted all the plain : Astur hath stormed Janiculum , And the stout guards are slain . '
But the wind , not charging fair to the wood , started aside and shook a single oak in Gleason 's pasture .
Here it made itself all small and crouched among the grasses , waving the tips of them as a cat waves the tip of her tail before she springs .
` Now welcome -- welcome , Sextus , ' sang Una , loading the catapult -- ` Now welcome to thy home !
Why dost thou stay , and turn away ?
Here lies the road to Rome . '
She fired into the face of the lull , to wake up the cowardly wind , and heard a grunt from behind a thorn in the pasture .
` Oh , my Winkie ! '
she said aloud , and that was something she had picked up from Dan . '
I b ` lieve I 've tickled up a Gleason cow . '
` You little painted beast ! '
a voice cried .
` I 'll teach you to sling your masters ! '
She looked down most cautiously , and saw a young man covered with hoopy bronze armour all glowing among the late broom .
But what Una admired beyond all was his great bronze helmet with a red horse-tail that flicked in the wind .
She could hear the long hairs rasp on his shimmery shoulder-plates .
` What does the Faun mean , ' he said , half aloud to himself , ` by telling me that the Painted People have changed ? '
He caught sight of Una 's yellow head .
` Have you seen a painted lead-slinger ? '
he called .
` No-o , ' said Una .
` But if you 've seen a bullet -- ' ` Seen ? '
cried the man .
` It passed within a hair 's breadth of my ear . '
` Well , that was me .
I 'm most awfully sorry . '
` Did n't the Faun tell you I was coming ? '
He smiled .
` Not if you mean Puck .
I thought you were a Gleason cow .
I -- I did n't know you were a -- a -- What are you ? '
He laughed outright , showing a set of splendid teeth .
His face and eyes were dark , and his eyebrows met above his big nose in one bushy black bar .
` They call me Parnesius .
I have been a Centurion of the Seventh Cohort of the Thirtieth Legion -- the Ulpia Victrix .
Did you sling that bullet ? ' '
I did .
I was using Dan 's catapult , ' said Una .
` Catapults ! '
said he . '
I ought to know something about them .
Show me ! '
He leaped the rough fence with a rattle of spear , shield , and armour , and hoisted himself into Volaterrae as quickly as a shadow . '
A sling on a forked stick .
I understand ! '
he cried , and pulled at the elastic .
` But what wonderful beast yields this stretching leather ? '
` It 's laccy -- elastic .
You put the bullet into that loop , and then you pull hard . '
The man pulled , and hit himself square on his thumb-nail .
` Each to his own weapon , ' he said gravely , handing it back . '
I am better with the bigger machine , little maiden .
But it 's a pretty toy .
A wolf would laugh at it .
Are n't you afraid of wolves ? '
` There are n't any , ' said Una .
` Never believe it !
A wolf 's like a Winged Hat .
He comes when he is n't expected .
Do n't they hunt wolves here ? '
` We do n't hunt , ' said Una , remembering what she had heard from grown-ups .
` We preserve -- pheasants .
Do you know them ? ' '
I ought to , ' said the young man , smiling again , and he imitated the cry of the cock-pheasant so perfectly that a bird answered out of the wood .
` What a big painted clucking fool is a pheasant ! '
he said .
` Just like some Romans . '
` But you 're a Roman yourself , are n't you ? '
said Una .
` Ye-es and no .
I 'm one of a good few thousands who have never seen Rome except in a picture .
My people have lived at Vectis for generations .
Vectis -- that island West yonder that you can see from so far in clear weather . '
` Do you mean the Isle of Wight ?
It lifts up just before rain , and you see it from the Downs . '
` Very likely .
Our villa 's on the South edge of the Island , by the Broken Cliffs .
Most of it is three hundred years old , but the cow-stables , where our first ancestor lived , must be a hundred years older .
Oh , quite that , because the founder of our family had his land given him by Agricola at the Settlement .
It 's not a bad little place for its size .
In spring-time violets grow down to the very beach .
I 've gathered sea-weeds for myself and violets for my Mother many a time with our old nurse . '
` Was your nurse a -- a Romaness too ? '
` No , a Numidian .
Gods be good to her !
A dear , fat , brown thing with a tongue like a cowbell .
She was a free woman .
By the way , are you free , maiden ? '
` Oh , quite , ' said Una .
` At least , till tea-time ; and in summer our governess does n't say much if we 're late . '
The young man laughed again -- a proper understanding laugh . '
I see , ' said he .
` That accounts for your being in the wood .
We hid among the cliffs . '
` Did you have a governess , then ? '
` Did we not ?
A Greek , too .
She had a way of clutching her dress when she hunted us among the gorse-bushes that made us laugh .
Then she 'd say she 'd get us whipped .
She never did , though , bless her !
Aglaia was a thorough sportswoman , for all her learning . '
` But what lessons did you do -- when -- when you were little ? '
` Ancient history , the Classics , arithmetic and so on , ' he answered .
` My sister and I were thick-heads , but my two brothers -LRB- I 'm the middle one -RRB- liked those things , and , of course , Mother was clever enough for any six .
She was nearly as tall as I am , and she looked like the new statue on the Western Road -- the Demeter of the Baskets , you know .
And funny !
Roma Dea !
How Mother could make us laugh ! '
` What at ? '
` Little jokes and sayings that every family has .
Do n't you know ? ' '
I know we have , but I did n't know other people had them too , ' said Una .
` Tell me about all your family , please . '
` Good families are very much alike .
Mother would sit spinning of evenings while Aglaia read in her corner , and Father did accounts , and we four romped about the passages .
When our noise grew too loud the Pater would say , `` Less tumult !
Less tumult !
Have you never heard of a Father 's right over his children ?
He can slay them , my loves -- slay them dead , and the Gods highly approve of the action ! ''
Then Mother would prim up her dear mouth over the wheel and answer : `` H 'm !
I 'm afraid there ca n't be much of the Roman Father about you ! ''
Then the Pater would roll up his accounts , and say , `` I 'll show you ! ''
and then -- then , he 'd be worse than any of us ! '
` Fathers can -- if they like , ' said Una , her eyes dancing .
` Did n't I say all good families are very much the same ? '
` What did you do in summer ? '
said Una .
` Play about , like us ? '
` Yes , and we visited our friends .
There are no wolves in Vectis .
We had many friends , and as many ponies as we wished . '
` It must have been lovely , ' said Una . '
I hope it lasted for ever . '
` Not quite , little maid .
When I was about sixteen or seventeen , the Father felt gouty , and we all went to the Waters . '
` What waters ? '
` At Aquae Solis .
Every one goes there .
You ought to get your Father to take you some day . '
` But where ?
I do n't know , ' said Una .
The young man looked astonished for a moment .
` Aquae Solis , ' he repeated .
` The best baths in Britain .
just as good , I 'm told , as Rome .
All the old gluttons sit in hot water , and talk scandal and politics .
And the Generals come through the streets with their guards behind them ; and the magistrates come in their chairs with their stiff guards behind them ; and you meet fortune-tellers , and goldsmiths , and merchants , and philosophers , and feather-sellers , and ultra-Roman Britons , and ultra-British Romans , and tame tribesmen pretending to be civilised , and Jew lecturers , and -- oh , everybody interesting .
We young people , of course , took no interest in politics .
We had not the gout : there were many of our age like us .
We did not find life sad .
` But while we were enjoying ourselves without thinking , my sister met the son of a magistrate in the West -- and a year afterwards she was married to him .
My young brother , who was always interested in plants and roots , met the First Doctor of a Legion from the City of the Legions , and he decided that he would be an Army doctor .
I do not think it is a profession for a well-born man , but then -- I 'm not my brother .
He went to Rome to study medicine , and now he 's First Doctor of a Legion in Egypt -- at Antinoe , I think , but I have not heard from him for some time .
` My eldest brother came across a Greek philosopher , and told my Father that he intended to settle down on the estate as a farmer and a philosopher .
You see , ' -- the young man 's eyes twinkled -- ` his philosopher was a long-haired one ! ' '
I thought philosophers were bald , ' said Una .
` Not all .
She was very pretty .
I do n't blame him .
Nothing could have suited me better than my eldest brother 's doing this , for I was only too keen to join the Army .
I had always feared I should have to stay at home and look after the estate while my brother took this . '
He rapped on his great glistening shield that never seemed to be in his way .
` So we were well contented -- we young people -- and we rode back to Clausentum along the Wood Road very quietly .
But when we reached home , Aglaia , our governess , saw what had come to us .
I remember her at the door , the torch over her head , watching us climb the cliff-path from the boat .
`` Aie !
Aie ! ''
she said .
`` Children you went away .
Men and a woman you return ! ''
Then she kissed Mother , and Mother wept .
Thus our visit to the Waters settled our fates for each of us , Maiden . '
He rose to his feet and listened , leaning on the shield-rim . '
I think that 's Dan -- my brother , ' said Una .
` Yes ; and the Faun is with him , ' he replied , as Dan with Puck stumbled through the copse .
` We should have come sooner , ' Puck called , ` but the beauties of your native tongue , O Parnesius , have enthralled this young citizen . '
Parnesius looked bewildered , even when Una explained .
` Dan said the plural of `` dominus '' was `` dominoes '' , and when Miss Blake said it was n't he said he supposed it was `` backgammon '' , and so he had to write it out twice -- for cheek , you know . '
Dan had climbed into Volaterrae , hot and panting .
` I 've run nearly all the way , ' he gasped , ` and then Puck met me .
How do you do , Sir ? ' '
I am in good health , ' Parnesius answered .
` See !
I have tried to bend the bow of Ulysses , but -- ' He held up his thumb .
` I 'm sorry .
You must have pulled off too soon , ' said Dan .
` But Puck said you were telling Una a story . '
` Continue , O Parnesius , ' said Puck , who had perched himself on a dead branch above them . '
I will be chorus .
Has he puzzled you much , Una ? '
` Not a bit , except -- I did n't know where Ak -- Ak something was , ' she answered .
` Oh , Aquae Solis .
That 's Bath , where the buns come from .
Let the hero tell his own tale . '
Parnesius pretended to thrust his spear at Puck 's legs , but Puck reached down , caught at the horse-tail plume , and pulled off the tall helmet .
` Thanks , jester , ' said Parnesius , shaking his curly dark head .
` That is cooler .
Now hang it up for me ... ' I was telling your sister how I joined the Army , ' he said to Dan .
` Did you have to pass an Exam ? '
Dan asked eagerly .
` No .
I went to my Father , and said I should like to enter the Dacian Horse -LRB- I had seen some at Aquae Solis -RRB- ; but he said I had better begin service in a regular Legion from Rome .
Now , like many of our youngsters , I was not too fond of anything Roman .
The Roman-born officers and magistrates looked down on us British-born as though we were barbarians .
I told my Father so . '
`` I know they do , '' he said ; `` but remember , after all , we are the people of the Old Stock , and our duty is to the Empire . '' '
`` To which Empire ? ''
I asked .
`` We split the Eagle before I was born . '' '
`` What thieves ' talk is that ? ''
said my Father .
He hated slang . '
`` Well , sir , '' I said , `` we 've one Emperor in Rome , and I do n't know how many Emperors the outlying Provinces have set up from time to time .
Which am I to follow ? '' '
`` Gratian , '' said he .
`` At least he 's a sportsman . '' '
`` He 's all that , '' I said .
`` Has n't he turned himself into a raw-beef-eating Scythian ? '' '
`` Where did you hear of it ? ''
said the Pater . '
`` At Aquae Solis , '' I said .
It was perfectly true .
This precious Emperor Gratian of ours had a bodyguard of fur-cloaked Scythians , and he was so crazy about them that he dressed like them .
In Rome of all places in the world !
It was as bad as if my own Father had painted himself blue ! '
`` No matter for the clothes , '' said the Pater .
`` They are only the fringe of the trouble .
It began before your time or mine .
Rome has forsaken her Gods , and must be punished .
The great war with the Painted People broke out in the very year the temples of our Gods were destroyed .
We beat the Painted People in the very year our temples were rebuilt .
Go back further still . ''
... He went back to the time of Diocletian ; and to listen to him you would have thought Eternal Rome herself was on the edge of destruction , just because a few people had become a little large-minded . '
I knew nothing about it .
Aglaia never taught us the history of our own country .
She was so full of her ancient Greeks . '
`` There is no hope for Rome , '' said the Pater , at last .
`` She has forsaken her Gods , but if the Gods forgive us here , we may save Britain .
To do that , we must keep the Painted People back .
Therefore , I tell you , Parnesius , as a Father , that if your heart is set on service , your place is among men on the Wall -- and not with women among the cities . '' '
` What Wall ? '
asked Dan and Una at once .
` Father meant the one we call Hadrian 's Wall .
I 'll tell you about it later .
It was built long ago , across North Britain , to keep out the Painted People -- Picts , you call them .
Father had fought in the great Pict War that lasted more than twenty years , and he knew what fighting meant .
Theodosius , one of our great Generals , had chased the little beasts back far into the North before I was born .
Down at Vectis , of course , we never troubled our heads about them .
But when my Father spoke as he did , I kissed his hand , and waited for orders .
We British-born Romans know what is due to our parents . '
` If I kissed my Father 's hand , he 'd laugh , ' said Dan .
` Customs change ; but if you do not obey your Father , the Gods remember it .
You may be quite sure of that .
` After our talk , seeing I was in earnest , the Pater sent me over to Clausentum to learn my foot-drill in a barrack full of foreign auxiliaries -- as unwashed and unshaved a mob of mixed barbarians as ever scrubbed a breastplate .
It was your stick in their stomachs and your shield in their faces to push them into any sort of formation .
When I had learned my work the Instructor gave me a handful -- and they were a handful !
-- of Gauls and Iberians to polish up till they were sent to their stations up-country .
I did my best , and one night a villa in the suburbs caught fire , and I had my handful out and at work before any of the other troops .
I noticed a quiet-looking man on the lawn , leaning on a stick .
He watched us passing buckets from the pond , and at last he said to me : `` Who are you ? '' '
`` A probationer , waiting for a command , '' I answered .
I did n't know who he was from Deucalion ! '
`` Born in Britain ? ''
he said . '
`` Yes , if you were born in Spain , '' I said , for he neighed his words like an Iberian mule . '
`` And what might you call yourself when you are at home ? ''
he said , laughing . '
`` That depends , '' I answered ; `` sometimes one thing and sometimes another .
But now I 'm busy . ''
` He said no more till we had saved the family gods -LRB- they were respectable householders -RRB- , and then he grunted across the laurels : `` Listen , young sometimes-one-thing-and-sometimes-another .
In future call yourself Centurion of the Seventh Cohort of the Thirtieth , the Ulpia Victrix .
That will help me to remember you .
Your Father and a few other people call me Maximus . ''
` He tossed me the polished stick he was leaning on , and went away .
You might have knocked me down with it ! '
` Who was he ? '
said Dan .
` Maximus himself , our great General !
The General of Britain who had been Theodosius 's right hand in the Pict War !
Not only had he given me my Centurion 's stick direct , but three steps in a good Legion as well !
A new man generally begins in the Tenth Cohort of his Legion , and works up . '
` And were you pleased ? '
said Una .
` Very .
I thought Maximus had chosen me for my good looks and fine style in marching , but , when I went home , the Pater told me he had served under Maximus in the great Pict War , and had asked him to befriend me . ' '
A child you were ! '
said Puck , from above . '
I was , ' said Parnesius .
` Do n't begrudge it me , Faun .
Afterwards -- the Gods know I put aside the games ! '
And Puck nodded , brown chin on brown hand , his big eyes still .
` The night before I left we sacrificed to our ancestors -- the usual little Home Sacrifice -- but I never prayed so earnestly to all the Good Shades , and then I went with my Father by boat to Regnum , and across the chalk eastwards to Anderida yonder . '
` Regnum ?
Anderida ? '
The children turned their faces to Puck .
` Regnum 's Chichester , ' he said , pointing towards Cherry Clack , ` and ' -- he threw his arm South behind him -- ` Anderida 's Pevensey . '
` Pevensey again ! '
said Dan .
` Where Weland landed ? '
` Weland and a few others , ' said Puck .
` Pevensey is n't young -- even compared to me ! '
` The headquarters of the Thirtieth lay at Anderida in summer , but my own Cohort , the Seventh , was on the Wall up North .
Maximus was inspecting Auxiliaries -- the Abulci , I think -- at Anderida , and we stayed with him , for he and my Father were very old friends .
I was only there ten days when I was ordered to go up with thirty men to my Cohort . '
He laughed merrily . '
A man never forgets his first march .
I was happier than any Emperor when I led my handful through the North Gate of the Camp , and we saluted the guard and the Altar of Victory there . '
` How ?
How ? '
said Dan and Una .
Parnesius smiled , and stood up , flashing in his armour .
` So ! '
said he ; and he moved slowly through the beautiful movements of the Roman Salute , that ends with a hollow clang of the shield coming into its place between the shoulders .
` Hai ! '
said Puck .
` That sets one thinking ! '
` We went out fully armed , ' said Parnesius , sitting down ; ` but as soon as the road entered the Great Forest , my men expected the pack-horses to hang their shields on .
`` No ! ''
I said ; `` you can dress like women in Anderida , but while you 're with me you will carry your own weapons and armour . '' '
`` But it 's hot , '' said one of them , `` and we have n't a doctor .
Suppose we get sunstroke , or a fever ? '' '
`` Then die , '' I said , `` and a good riddance to Rome !
Up shield -- up spears , and tighten your foot-wear ! '' '
`` Do n't think yourself Emperor of Britain already , '' a fellow shouted .
I knocked him over with the butt of my spear , and explained to these Roman-born Romans that , if there were any further trouble , we should go on with one man short .
And , by the Light of the Sun , I meant it too !
My raw Gauls at Clausentum had never treated me so .
` Then , quietly as a cloud , Maximus rode out of the fern -LRB- my Father behind him -RRB- , and reined up across the road .
He wore the Purple , as though he were already Emperor ; his leggings were of white buckskin laced with gold .
` My men dropped like -- like partridges .
` He said nothing for some time , only looked , with his eyes puckered .
Then he crooked his forefinger , and my men walked -- crawled , I mean -- to one side . '
`` Stand in the sun , children , '' he said , and they formed up on the hard road . '
`` What would you have done , '' he said to me , `` if I had not been here ? '' '
`` I should have killed that man , '' I answered . '
`` Kill him now , '' he said .
`` He will not move a limb . '' '
`` No , '' I said .
`` You 've taken my men out of my command .
I should only be your butcher if I killed him now . ''
Do you see what I meant ? '
Parnesius turned to Dan .
` Yes , ' said Dan .
` It would n't have been fair , somehow . '
` That was what I thought , ' said Parnesius .
` But Maximus frowned .
`` You 'll never be an Emperor , '' he said .
`` Not even a General will you be . '' '
I was silent , but my Father seemed pleased . '
`` I came here to see the last of you , '' he said . '
`` You have seen it , '' said Maximus .
`` I shall never need your son any more .
He will live and he will die an officer of a Legion -- and he might have been Prefect of one of my Provinces .
Now eat and drink with us , '' he said .
`` Your men will wait till you have finished . ''
` My miserable thirty stood like wine-skins glistening in the hot sun , and Maximus led us to where his people had set a meal .
Himself he mixed the wine . '
`` A year from now , '' he said , `` you will remember that you have sat with the Emperor of Britain -- and Gaul . '' '
`` Yes , '' said the Pater , `` you can drive two mules -- Gaul and Britain . '' '
`` Five years hence you will remember that you have drunk '' -- he passed me the cup and there was blue borage in it -- `` with the Emperor of Rome ! '' '
`` No ; you ca n't drive three mules .
They will tear you in pieces , '' said my Father . '
`` And you on the Wall , among the heather , will weep because your notion of justice was more to you than the favour of the Emperor of Rome . '' '
I sat quite still .
One does not answer a General who wears the Purple . '
`` I am not angry with you , '' he went on ; `` I owe too much to your Father -- '' ' `` You owe me nothing but advice that you never took , '' said the Pater . ' ''
-- to be unjust to any of your family .
Indeed , I say you may make a good Tribune , but , so far as I am concerned , on the Wall you will live , and on the Wall you will die , '' said Maximus . '
`` Very like , '' said my Father .
`` But we shall have the Picts and their friends breaking through before long .
You can not move all troops out of Britain to make you Emperor , and expect the North to sit quiet . '' '
`` I follow my destiny , '' said Maximus . '
`` Follow it , then , '' said my Father , pulling up a fern root ; `` and die as Theodosius died . '' '
`` Ah ! ''
said Maximus .
`` My old General was killed because he served the Empire too well .
I may be killed , but not for that reason , '' and he smiled a little pale grey smile that made my blood run cold . '
`` Then I had better follow my destiny , '' I said , `` and take my men to the Wall . ''
` He looked at me a long time , and bowed his head slanting like a Spaniard .
`` Follow it , boy , '' he said .
That was all .
I was only too glad to get away , though I had many messages for home .
I found my men standing as they had been put -- they had not even shifted their feet in the dust , and off I marched , still feeling that terrific smile like an east wind up my back .
I never halted them till sunset , and ' -- he turned about and looked at Pook 's Hill below him -- ` then I halted yonder . '
He pointed to the broken , bracken-covered shoulder of the Forge Hill behind old Hobden 's cottage .
` There ?
Why , that 's only the old Forge -- where they made iron once , ' said Dan .
` Very good stuff it was too , ' said Parnesius calmly .
` We mended three shoulder-straps here and had a spear-head riveted .
The Forge was rented from the Government by a one-eyed smith from Carthage .
I remember we called him Cyclops .
He sold me a beaver-skin rug for my sister 's room . '
` But it could n't have been here , ' Dan insisted .
` But it was !
From the Altar of Victory at Anderida to the First Forge in the Forest here is twelve miles seven hundred paces .
It is all in the Road Book .
A man does n't forget his first march .
I think I could tell you every station between this and -- ' He leaned forward , but his eye was caught by the setting sun .
It had come down to the top of Cherry Clack Hill , and the light poured in between the tree trunks so that you could see red and gold and black deep into the heart of Far Wood ; and Parnesius in his armour shone as though he had been afire .
` Wait ! '
he said , lifting a hand , and the sunlight jinked on his glass bracelet .
` Wait !
I pray to Mithras ! '
He rose and stretched his arms westward , with deep , splendid-sounding words .
Then Puck began to sing too , in a voice like bells tolling , and as he sang he slipped from Volaterrae to the ground , and beckoned the children to follow .
They obeyed ; it seemed as though the voices were pushing them along ; and through the goldy-brown light on the beech leaves they walked , while Puck between them chanted something like this : ` Cur mundus militat sub vana gloria Cujus prosperitas est transitoria ?
Tam cito labitur ejus potentia Quam vasa figuli qu sunt fragilia . '
They found themselves at the little locked gates of the wood .
` Quo Csar abiit celsus imperio ?
Vel Dives splendidus totus in prandio ?
Dic ubi Tullius -- ' Still singing , he took Dan 's hand and wheeled him round to face Una as she came out of the gate .
It shut behind her , at the same time as Puck threw the memory-magicking Oak , Ash and Thorn leaves over their heads .
` Well , you are jolly late , ' said Una .
` Could n't you get away before ? ' '
I did , ' said Dan . '
I got away in lots of time , but -- but I did n't know it was so late .
Where 've you been ? '
` In Volaterrae -- waiting for you . '
` Sorry , ' said Dan .
` It was all that beastly Latin . '
A BRITISH-ROMAN SONG -LRB- A.D. 406 -RRB- My father 's father saw it not , And I , belike , shall never come , To look on that so-holy spot -- The very Rome -- Crowned by all Time , all Art , all Might , The equal work of Gods and Man , City beneath whose oldest height -- The Race began !
Soon to send forth again a brood , Unshakeable , we pray , that clings , To Rome 's thrice-hammered hardihood -- In arduous things .
Strong heart with triple armour bound , Beat strongly , for thy life-blood runs , Age after Age , the Empire round -- In us thy Sons , Who , distant from the Seven Hills , Loving and serving much , require Thee , -- thee to guard ` gainst home-born ills The Imperial Fire !
ON THE GREAT WALL ` When I left Rome for Lalage 's sake By the Legions ' Road to Rimini , She vowed her heart was mine to take With me and my shield to Rimini -- -LRB- Till the Eagles flew from Rimini ! -RRB-
And I 've tramped Britain , and I 've tramped Gaul , And the Pontic shore where the snow-flakes fall As white as the neck of Lalage -- -LRB- As cold as the heart of Lalage ! -RRB-
And I 've lost Britain , and I 've lost Gaul , ' -LRB- the voice seemed very cheerful about it -RRB- , ` And I 've lost Rome , and , worst of all , I 've lost Lalage ! '
They were standing by the gate to Far Wood when they heard this song .
Without a word they hurried to their private gap and wriggled through the hedge almost atop of a jay that was feeding from Puck 's hand .
` Gently ! '
said Puck .
` What are you looking for ? '
` Parnesius , of course , ' Dan answered .
` We 've only just remembered yesterday .
It is n't fair . '
Puck chuckled as he rose .
` I 'm sorry , but children who spend the afternoon with me and a Roman Centurion need a little settling dose of Magic before they go to tea with their governess .
Oh , Parnesius ! '
he called .
` Here , Faun ! '
came the answer from Volaterrae .
They could see the shimmer of bronze armour in the beech crotch , and the friendly flash of the great shield uplifted . '
I have driven out the Britons . '
Parnesius laughed like a boy . '
I occupy their high forts .
But Rome is merciful !
You may come up . '
And up they three all scrambled .
` What was the song you were singing just now ? '
said Una , as soon as she had settled herself .
` That ?
Oh , Rimini .
It 's one of the tunes that are always being born somewhere in the Empire .
They run like a pestilence for six months or a year , till another one pleases the Legions , and then they march to that . '
` Tell them about the marching , Parnesius .
Few people nowadays walk from end to end of this country , ' said Puck .
` The greater their loss .
I know nothing better than the Long March when your feet are hardened .
You begin after the mists have risen , and you end , perhaps , an hour after sundown . '
` And what do you have to eat ? '
Dan asked promptly .
` Fat bacon , beans , and bread , and whatever wine happens to be in the rest-houses .
But soldiers are born grumblers .
Their very first day out , my men complained of our water-ground British corn .
They said it was n't so filling as the rough stuff that is ground in the Roman ox-mills .
However , they had to fetch and eat it . '
` Fetch it ?
Where from ? '
said Una .
` From that newly invented water-mill below the Forge . '
` That 's Forge Mill -- our Mill ! '
Una looked at Puck .
` Yes ; yours , ' Puck put in .
` How old did you think it was ? ' '
I do n't know .
Did n't Sir Richard Dalyngridge talk about it ? '
` He did , and it was old in his day , ' Puck answered .
` Hundreds of years old . '
` It was new in mine , ' said Parnesius .
` My men looked at the flour in their helmets as though it had been a nest of adders .
They did it to try my patience .
But I -- addressed them , and we became friends .
To tell the truth , they taught me the Roman Step .
You see , I 'd only served with quick-marching Auxiliaries .
A Legion 's pace is altogether different .
It is a long , slow stride , that never varies from sunrise to sunset .
`` Rome 's Race -- Rome 's Pace , '' as the proverb says .
Twenty-four miles in eight hours , neither more nor less .
Head and spear up , shield on your back , cuirass-collar open one hand 's breadth -- and that 's how you take the Eagles through Britain . '
` And did you meet any adventures ? '
said Dan .
` There are no adventures South the Wall , ' said Parnesius .
` The worst thing that happened me was having to appear before a magistrate up North , where a wandering philosopher had jeered at the Eagles .
I was able to show that the old man had deliberately blocked our road ; and the magistrate told him , out of his own Book , I believe , that , whatever his Gods might be , he should pay proper respect to Csar . '
` What did you do ? '
said Dan .
` Went on .
Why should I care for such things , my business being to reach my station ?
It took me twenty days .
` Of course , the farther North you go the emptier are the roads .
At last you fetch clear of the forests and climb bare hills , where wolves howl in the ruins of our cities that have been .
No more pretty girls ; no more jolly magistrates who knew your Father when he was young , and invite you to stay with them ; no news at the temples and way-stations except bad news of wild beasts .
There 's where you meet hunters , and trappers for the Circuses , prodding along chained bears and muzzled wolves .
Your pony shies at them , and your men laugh .
` The houses change from gardened villas to shut forts with watch-towers of grey stone , and great stone-walled sheepfolds , guarded by armed Britons of the North Shore .
In the naked hills beyond the naked houses , where the shadows of the clouds play like cavalry charging , you see puffs of black smoke from the mines .
The hard road goes on and on -- and the wind sings through your helmet-plume -- past altars to Legions and Generals forgotten , and broken statues of Gods and Heroes , and thousands of graves where the mountain foxes and hares peep at you .
Red-hot in summer , freezing in winter , is that big , purple heather country of broken stone .
` Just when you think you are at the world 's end , you see a smoke from East to West as far as the eye can turn , and then , under it , also as far as the eye can stretch , houses and temples , shops and theatres , barracks and granaries , trickling along like dice behind -- always behind -- one long , low , rising and falling , and hiding and showing line of towers .
And that is the Wall ! '
` Ah ! '
said the children , taking breath .
` You may well , ' said Parnesius .
` Old men who have followed the Eagles since boyhood say nothing in the Empire is more wonderful than first sight of the Wall ! '
` Is it just a Wall ?
Like the one round the kitchen-garden ? '
said Dan .
` No , no !
It is the Wall .
Along the top are towers with guard-houses , small towers , between .
Even on the narrowest part of it three men with shields can walk abreast , from guard-house to guard-house .
A little curtain wall , no higher than a man 's neck , runs along the top of the thick wall , so that from a distance you see the helmets of the sentries sliding back and forth like beads .
Thirty feet high is the Wall , and on the Picts ' side , the North , is a ditch , strewn with blades of old swords and spear-heads set in wood , and tyres of wheels joined by chains .
The Little People come there to steal iron for their arrow-heads .
` But the Wall itself is not more wonderful than the town behind it .
Long ago there were great ramparts and ditches on the South side , and no one was allowed to build there .
Now the ramparts are partly pulled down and built over , from end to end of the Wall ; making a thin town eighty miles long .
Think of it !
One roaring , rioting , cock-fighting , wolf-baiting , horse-racing town , from Ituna on the West to Segedunum on the cold eastern beach !
On one side heather , woods and ruins where Picts hide , and on the other , a vast town -- long like a snake , and wicked like a snake .
Yes , a snake basking beside a warm wall !
` My Cohort , I was told , lay at Hunno , where the Great North Road runs through the Wall into the Province of Valentia . '
Parnesius laughed scornfully .
` The Province of Valentia !
We followed the road , therefore , into Hunno town , and stood astonished .
The place was a fair -- a fair of peoples from every corner of the Empire .
Some were racing horses : some sat in wine-shops : some watched dogs baiting bears , and many gathered in a ditch to see cocks fight .
A boy not much older than myself , but I could see he was an officer , reined up before me and asked what I wanted . '
`` My station , '' I said , and showed him my shield . '
Parnesius held up his broad shield with its three X 's like letters on a beer-cask . '
`` Lucky omen ! ''
said he .
`` Your Cohort 's the next tower to us , but they 're all at the cock-fight .
This is a happy place .
Come and wet the Eagles . ''
He meant to offer me a drink . '
`` When I 've handed over my men , '' I said .
I felt angry and ashamed . '
`` Oh , you 'll soon outgrow that sort of nonsense , '' he answered .
`` But do n't let me interfere with your hopes .
Go on to the Statue of Roma Dea .
You ca n't miss it .
The main road into Valentia ! ''
and he laughed and rode off .
I could see the statue not a quarter of a mile away , and there I went .
At some time or other the Great North Road ran under it into Valentia ; but the far end had been blocked up because of the Picts , and on the plaster a man had scratched , `` Finish ! ''
It was like marching into a cave .
We grounded spears together , my little thirty , and it echoed in the barrel of the arch , but none came .
There was a door at one side painted with our number .
We prowled in , and I found a cook asleep , and ordered him to give us food .
Then I climbed to the top of the Wall , and looked out over the Pict country , and I -- thought , ' said Parnesius .
` The bricked-up arch with `` Finish ! ''
on the plaster was what shook me , for I was not much more than a boy . '
` What a shame ! '
said Una .
` But did you feel happy after you 'd had a good -- ' Dan stopped her with a nudge .
` Happy ? '
said Parnesius .
` When the men of the Cohort I was to command came back unhelmeted from the cock-fight , their birds under their arms , and asked me who I was ?
No , I was not happy ; but I made my new Cohort unhappy too ... I wrote my Mother I was happy , but , oh , my friends ' -- he stretched arms over bare knees -- ' I would not wish my worst enemy to suffer as I suffered through my first months on the Wall .
Remember this : among the officers was scarcely one , except myself -LRB- and I thought I had lost the favour of Maximus , my General -RRB- , scarcely one who had not done something of wrong or folly .
Either he had killed a man , or taken money , or insulted the magistrates , or blasphemed the Gods , and so had been sent to the Wall as a hiding-place from shame or fear .
And the men were as the officers .
Remember , also , that the Wall was manned by every breed and race in the Empire .
No two towers spoke the same tongue , or worshipped the same Gods .
In one thing only we were all equal .
No matter what arms we had used before we came to the Wall , on the Wall we were all archers , like the Scythians .
The Pict can not run away from the arrow , or crawl under it .
He is a bowman himself .
He knows ! ' '
I suppose you were fighting Picts all the time , ' said Dan .
` Picts seldom fight .
I never saw a fighting Pict for half a year .
The tame Picts told us they had all gone North . '
` What is a tame Pict ? '
said Dan . '
A Pict -- there were many such -- who speaks a few words of our tongue , and slips across the Wall to sell ponies and wolf-hounds .
Without a horse and a dog , and a friend , man would perish .
The Gods gave me all three , and there is no gift like friendship .
Remember this ' -- Parnesius turned to Dan -- ` when you become a young man .
For your fate will turn on the first true friend you make . '
` He means , ' said Puck , grinning , ` that if you try to make yourself a decent chap when you 're young , you 'll make rather decent friends when you grow up .
If you 're a beast , you 'll have beastly friends .
Listen to the Pious Parnesius on Friendship ! ' '
I am not pious , ' Parnesius answered , ` but I know what goodness means ; and my friend , though he was without hope , was ten thousand times better than I. Stop laughing , Faun ! '
` Oh , Youth Eternal and All-believing , ' cried Puck , as he rocked on the branch above .
` Tell them about your Pertinax . '
` He was that friend the Gods sent me -- the boy who spoke to me when I first came .
Little older than myself , commanding the Augusta Victoria Cohort on the tower next to us and the Numidians .
In virtue he was far my superior . '
` Then why was he on the Wall ? '
Una asked , quickly .
` They 'd all done something bad .
You said so yourself . '
` He was the nephew , his Father had died , of a great rich man in Gaul who was not always kind to his Mother .
When Pertinax grew up , he discovered this , and so his uncle shipped him off , by trickery and force , to the Wall .
We came to know each other at a ceremony in our Temple -- in the dark .
It was the Bull-Killing , ' Parnesius explained to Puck . '
I see , said Puck , and turned to the children .
` That 's something you would n't quite understand .
Parnesius means he met Pertinax in church . '
` Yes -- in the Cave we first met , and we were both raised to the Degree of Gryphons together . '
Parnesius lifted his hand towards his neck for an instant .
` He had been on the Wall two years , and knew the Picts well .
He taught me first how to take Heather . '
` What 's that ? '
said Dan .
` Going out hunting in the Pict country with a tame Pict .
You are quite safe so long as you are his guest , and wear a sprig of heather where it can be seen .
If you went alone you would surely be killed , if you were not smothered first in the bogs .
Only the Picts know their way about those black and hidden bogs .
Old Allo , the one-eyed , withered little Pict from whom we bought our ponies , was our special friend .
At first we went only to escape from the terrible town , and to talk together about our homes .
Then he showed us how to hunt wolves and those great red deer with horns like Jewish candlesticks .
The Roman-born officers rather looked down on us for doing this , but we preferred the heather to their amusements .
Believe me , ' Parnesius turned again to Dan , ' a boy is safe from all things that really harm when he is astride a pony or after a deer .
Do you remember , O Faun , ' -- he turned to Puck -- ` the little altar I built to the Sylvan Pan by the pine-forest beyond the brook ? '
` Which ?
The stone one with the line from Xenophon ? '
said Puck , in quite a new voice .
` No !
What do I know of Xenophon ?
That was Pertinax -- after he had shot his first mountain-hare with an arrow -- by chance !
Mine I made of round pebbles , in memory of my first bear .
It took me one happy day to build . '
Parnesius faced the children quickly .
` And that was how we lived on the Wall for two years -- a little scuffling with the Picts , and a great deal of hunting with old Allo in the Pict country .
He called us his children sometimes , and we were fond of him and his barbarians , though we never let them paint us Pict fashion .
The marks endure till you die . '
` How 's it done ? '
said Dan .
` Anything like tattooing ? '
` They prick the skin till the blood runs , and rub in coloured juices .
Allo was painted blue , green , and red from his forehead to his ankles .
He said it was part of his religion .
He told us about his religion -LRB- Pertinax was always interested in such things -RRB- , and as we came to know him well , he told us what was happening in Britain behind the Wall .
Many things took place behind us in those days .
And by the Light of the Sun , ' said Parnesius , earnestly , ` there was not much that those little people did not know !
He told me when Maximus crossed over to Gaul , after he had made himself Emperor of Britain , and what troops and emigrants he had taken with him .
We did not get the news on the Wall till fifteen days later .
He told me what troops Maximus was taking out of Britain every month to help him to conquer Gaul ; and I always found the numbers were as he said .
Wonderful !
And I tell another strange thing ! '
He joined his hands across his knees , and leaned his head on the curve of the shield behind him .
` Late in the summer , when the first frosts begin and the Picts kill their bees , we three rode out after wolf with some new hounds .
Rutilianus , our General , had given us ten days ' leave , and we had pushed beyond the Second Wall -- beyond the Province of Valentia -- into the higher hills , where there are not even any of old Rome 's ruins .
We killed a she-wolf before noon , and while Allo was skinning her he looked up and said to me , `` When you are Captain of the Wall , my child , you wo n't be able to do this any more ! '' '
I might as well have been made Prefect of Lower Gaul , so I laughed and said , `` Wait till I am Captain . '' '
`` No , do n't wait , '' said Allo .
`` Take my advice and go home -- both of you . '' '
`` We have no homes , '' said Pertinax .
`` You know that as well as we do .
We 're finished men -- thumbs down against both of us .
Only men without hope would risk their necks on your ponies . ''
The old man laughed one of those short Pict laughs -- like a fox barking on a frosty night .
`` I 'm fond of you two , '' he said .
`` Besides , I 've taught you what little you know about hunting .
Take my advice and go home . '' '
`` We ca n't , '' I said .
`` I 'm out of favour with my General , for one thing ; and for another , Pertinax has an uncle . '' '
`` I do n't know about his uncle , '' said Allo , `` but the trouble with you , Parnesius , is that your General thinks well of you . '' '
`` Roma Dea ! ''
said Pertinax , sitting up .
`` What can you guess what Maximus thinks , you old horse-coper ? ''
` Just then -LRB- you know how near the brutes creep when one is eating ? -RRB-
a great dog-wolf jumped out behind us , and away our rested hounds tore after him , with us at their tails .
He ran us far out of any country we 'd ever heard of , straight as an arrow till sunset , towards the sunset .
We came at last to long capes stretching into winding waters , and on a grey beach below us we saw ships drawn up .
Forty-seven we counted -- not Roman galleys but the raven-winged ships from the North where Rome does not rule .
Men moved in the ships , and the sun flashed on their helmets -- winged helmets of the red-haired men from the North where Rome does not rule .
We watched , and we counted , and we wondered , for though we had heard rumours concerning these Winged Hats , as the Picts called them , never before had we looked upon them . '
`` Come away !
come away ! ''
said Allo .
`` My Heather wo n't protect you here .
We shall all be killed ! ''
His legs trembled like his voice .
Back we went -- back across the heather under the moon , till it was nearly morning , and our poor beasts stumbled on some ruins .
` When we woke , very stiff and cold , Allo was mixing the meal and water .
One does not light fires in the Pict country except near a village .
The little men are always signalling to each other with smokes , and a strange smoke brings them out buzzing like bees .
They can sting , too ! '
`` What we saw last night was a trading-station , '' said Allo .
`` Nothing but a trading-station . '' '
`` I do not like lies on an empty stomach , '' said Pertinax .
`` I suppose '' -LRB- he had eyes like an eagle 's -RRB- -- `` I suppose that is a trading-station also ? ''
He pointed to a smoke far off on a hill-top , ascending in what we call the Picts ' Call : -- Puff -- double-puff : double-puff -- puff !
They make it by raising and dropping a wet hide on a fire . '
`` No , '' said Allo , pushing the platter back into the bag .
`` That is for you and me .
Your fate is fixed .
Come . ''
` We came .
When one takes Heather , one must obey one 's Pict -- but that wretched smoke was twenty miles distant , well over on the East coast , and the day was as hot as a bath . '
`` Whatever happens , '' said Allo , while our ponies grunted along , `` I want you to remember me . '' '
`` I shall not forget , '' said Pertinax .
`` You have cheated me out of my breakfast . ''
`` What is a handful of crushed oats to a Roman ? ''
he said .
Then he laughed his laugh that was not a laugh .
`` What would you do if you were a handful of oats being crushed between the upper and lower stones of a mill ? '' '
`` I 'm Pertinax , not a riddle-guesser , '' said Pertinax . '
`` You 're a fool , '' said Allo .
`` Your Gods and my Gods are threatened by strange Gods , and all you can do is to laugh . '' '
`` Threatened men live long , '' I said . '
`` I pray the Gods that may be true , '' he said .
`` But I ask you again not to forget me . ''
` We climbed the last hot hill and looked out on the eastern sea , three or four miles off .
There was a small sailing-galley of the North Gaul pattern at anchor , her landing-plank down and her sail half up ; and below us , alone in a hollow , holding his pony , sat Maximus , Emperor of Britain !
He was dressed like a hunter , and he leaned on his little stick ; but I knew that back as far as I could see it , and I told Pertinax . '
`` You 're madder than Allo ! ''
he said .
`` It must be the sun ! ''
` Maximus never stirred till we stood before him .
Then he looked me up and down , and said : `` Hungry again ?
It seems to be my destiny to feed you whenever we meet .
I have food here .
Allo shall cook it . '' '
`` No , '' said Allo .
`` A Prince in his own land does not wait on wandering Emperors .
I feed my two children without asking your leave . ''
He began to blow up the ashes . '
`` I was wrong , '' said Pertinax .
`` We are all mad .
Speak up , O Madman called Emperor ! ''
` Maximus smiled his terrible tight-lipped smile , but two years on the Wall do not make a man afraid of mere looks .
So I was not afraid . '
`` I meant you , Parnesius , to live and die a Centurion of the Wall , '' said Maximus .
`` But it seems from these , '' -- he fumbled in his breast -- `` you can think as well as draw . ''
He pulled out a roll of letters I had written to my people , full of drawings of Picts , and bears , and men I had met on the Wall .
Mother and my sister always liked my pictures .
` He handed me one that I had called `` Maximus 's Soldiers '' .
It showed a row of fat wine-skins , and our old Doctor of the Hunno hospital snuffing at them .
Each time that Maximus had taken troops out of Britain to help him to conquer Gaul , he used to send the garrisons more wine -- to keep them quiet , I suppose .
On the Wall , we always called a wine-skin a `` Maximus '' .
Oh , yes ; and I had drawn them in Imperial helmets . '
`` Not long since , '' he went on , `` men 's names were sent up to Csar for smaller jokes than this . '' '
`` True , Csar , '' said Pertinax ; `` but you forget that was before I , your friend 's friend , became such a good spear-thrower . ''
` He did not actually point his hunting-spear at Maximus , but balanced it on his palm -- so ! '
`` I was speaking of time past , '' said Maximus , never fluttering an eyelid .
`` Nowadays one is only too pleased to find boys who can think for themselves , and their friends . ''
He nodded at Pertinax .
`` Your Father lent me the letters , Parnesius , so you run no risk from me . '' '
`` None whatever , '' said Pertinax , and rubbed the spear-point on his sleeve . '
`` I have been forced to reduce the garrisons in Britain , because I need troops in Gaul .
Now I come to take troops from the Wall itself , '' said he . '
`` I wish you joy of us , '' said Pertinax .
`` We 're the last sweepings of the Empire -- the men without hope .
Myself , I 'd sooner trust condemned criminals . '' '
`` You think so ? ''
he said , quite seriously .
`` But it will only be till I win Gaul .
One must always risk one 's life , or one 's soul , or one 's peace -- or some little thing . ''
` Allo passed round the fire with the sizzling deer 's meat .
He served us two first . '
`` Ah ! ''
said Maximus , waiting his turn .
`` I perceive you are in your own country .
Well , you deserve it .
They tell me you have quite a following among the Picts , Parnesius . '' '
`` I have hunted with them , '' I said .
`` Maybe I have a few friends among the Heather . '' '
`` He is the only armoured man of you all who understands us , '' said Allo , and he began a long speech about our virtues , and how we had saved one of his grandchildren from a wolf the year before . '
` Had you ? '
said Una .
` Yes ; but that was neither here nor there .
The little green man orated like a -- like Cicero .
He made us out to be magnificent fellows .
Maximus never took his eyes off our faces . '
`` Enough , '' he said .
`` I have heard Allo on you .
I wish to hear you on the Picts . '' '
I told him as much as I knew , and Pertinax helped me out .
There is never harm in a Pict if you but take the trouble to find out what he wants .
Their real grievance against us came from our burning their heather .
The whole garrison of the Wall moved out twice a year , and solemnly burned the heather for ten miles North .
Rutilianus , our General , called it clearing the country .
The Picts , of course , scampered away , and all we did was to destroy their bee-bloom in the summer , and ruin their sheep-food in the spring . '
`` True , quite true , '' said Allo .
`` How can we make our holy heather-wine , if you burn our bee-pasture ? ''
` We talked long , Maximus asking keen questions that showed he knew much and had thought more about the Picts .
He said presently to me : `` If I gave you the old Province of Valentia to govern , could you keep the Picts contented till I won Gaul ?
Stand away , so that you do not see Allo 's face ; and speak your own thoughts . '' '
`` No , '' I said .
`` You can not remake that Province .
The Picts have been free too long . '' '
`` Leave them their village councils , and let them furnish their own soldiers , '' he said .
`` You , I am sure , would hold the reins very lightly . ''
`` Even then , no , '' I said .
`` At least not now .
They have been too oppressed by us to trust anything with a Roman name for years and years . '' '
I heard old Allo behind me mutter : `` Good child ! '' '
`` Then what do you recommend , '' said Maximus , `` to keep the North quiet till I win Gaul ? '' '
