You see , he knew that he had found the place where Granny was in the habit of taking a sun-nap .
`` So , '' said he , `` this is the place where you rest , Old Mrs. Fox , after running Bowser almost off his feet .
I think we will give you a surprise one of these days .
Yes , indeed , I think we will give you a surprise .
You have fooled us many times , and now it is our turn . ''
The next day Farmer Brown 's boy shouldered his terrible gun and sent Bowser the Hound to hunt for the trail of Old Granny Fox .
It was n't long before Bowser 's great voice told all the Great World that he had found Granny 's tracks .
Farmer Brown 's boy grinned just as he had the day before .
Then with his terrible gun he went over to the Green Forest and hid under some pine boughs right on the edge of that sunny knoll .
He waited patiently a long , long time .
He heard Bowser 's great voice growing more and more excited as he followed Old Granny Fox .
By and by Bowser stopped baying and began to yelp impatiently .
Farmer Brown 's boy knew exactly what that meant .
It meant that Granny had played one of her smart tricks and Bowser had lost her trail .
A few minutes later out of the Green Forest came Old Granny Fox , and she was grinning , for once more she had fooled Bowser the Hound and now could take a nap in peace .
Still grinning , she turned around two or three times to make herself comfortable and then , with a sigh of contentment , curled up for a sun-nap , and in a few minutes was asleep .
And just a little way off behind the pine boughs sat Farmer Brown 's boy holding his terrible gun and grinning .
At last he had caught Old Granny Fox napping .
CHAPTER VII : Granny Fox Has A Bad Dream Nothing ever simply happens ; Bear that point in mind .
If you look long and hard enough A cause you 'll always find .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox was dreaming .
Yes , Sir , she was dreaming .
There she lay , curled up on the sunny little knoll on the edge of the Green Forest , fast asleep and dreaming .
It was a very pleasant and very comfortable place indeed .
You see , jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun poured his warmest rays right down there from the blue , blue sky .
When Old Granny Fox was tired , she often slipped over there for a short nap and sun-bath even in winter .
She was quite sure that no one knew anything about it .
It was one of her secrets .
This morning Old Granny Fox was very tired , unusually so .
In the first place she had been out hunting all night .
Then , before she could reach home , Bowser the Hound had found her tracks and started to follow them .
Of course , it would n't have done to go home then .
It would n't have done at all .
Bowser would have followed her straight there and so found out where she lived .
So she had led Bowser far away across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest and finally played one of her smart tricks which had so mixed her tracks that Bowser could no longer follow them .
While he had sniffed and snuffed and snuffed and sniffed with that wonderful nose of his , trying to find out where she had gone , Old Granny Fox had trotted straight to the sunny knoll and there curled up to rest .
Right away she fell asleep .
Now Old Granny Fox , like most of the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , sleeps with her ears wide open .
Her eyes may be closed , but not her ears .
Those are always on guard , even when she is asleep , and at the least sound open fly her eyes , and she is ready to run .
If it were not for the way her sharp ears keep guard , she would n't dare take naps in the open right in broad daylight .
If you ever want to catch a Fox asleep , you must n't make the teeniest , weeniest noise .
Just remember that .
Now Old Granny Fox had no sooner closed her eyes than she began to dream .
At first it was a very pleasant dream , the pleasantest dream a Fox can have .
It was of a chicken dinner , all the chicken she could eat .
Granny certainly enjoyed that dream .
It made her smack her lips quite as if it were a real and not a dream dinner she was enjoying .
But presently the dream changed and became a bad dream .
Yes , indeed , it became a bad dream .
It was as bad as at first it had been good .
It seemed to Granny that Bowser the Hound had become very smart , smarter than she had ever known him to be before .
Do what she would , she could n't fool him .
Not one of all the tricks she knew , and she knew a great many , fooled him at all .
They did n't puzzle him long enough for her to get her breath .
Bowser kept getting nearer and nearer and nearer , all in the dream , you know , until it seemed as if his great voice sounded right at her very heels .
She was so tired that it seemed to her that she could n't run another step .
It was a very , very real dream .
You know dreams sometimes do seem very real indeed .
This was the way it was with the bad dream of Old Granny Fox .
It seemed to her that she could feel the breath of Bowser the Hound and that his great jaws were just going to close on her and shake her to death .
`` Oh !
Oh ! ''
cried Granny and waked herself up .
Her eyes flew open .
Then she gave a great sigh of relief as she realized that her terrible fright was only a bad dream and that she was curled up right on the dear , familiar , old , sunny knoll and not running for her life at all .
Old Granny Fox smiled to think what a fright she had had and then , -- well , she did n't know whether she was really awake or still dreaming !
No , Sir , she did n't .
For a full minute she could n't be sure whether what she saw was real or part of that dreadful dream .
You see , she was staring into the face of Farmer Brown 's boy and the muzzle of his dreadful gun !
For just a few seconds she did n't move .
She could n't .
She was too frightened to move .
Then she knew what she saw was real and not a dream at all .
There was n't the least bit of doubt about it .
That was Farmer Brown 's boy , and that was his dreadful gun !
All in a flash she knew that Farmer Brown 's boy must have been hiding behind those pine boughs .
Poor Old Granny Fox !
For once in her life she had been caught napping .
She had n't the least hope in the world .
Farmer Brown 's boy had only to fire that dreadful gun , and that would be the end of her .
She knew it .
CHAPTER VIII : What Farmer Brown 's Boy Did In time of danger heed this rule : Think hard and fast , but pray keep cool .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Poor Old Granny Fox !
She had thought that she had been in tight places before , but never , never had she been in such a tight place as this .
There stood Farmer Brown 's boy looking along the barrel of his dreadful gun straight at her , and only such a short distance , such a very short distance away !
It was n't the least bit of use to run .
Granny knew that .
That dreadful gun would go `` bang ! ''
and that would be the end of her .
For a few seconds she stared at Farmer Brown 's boy , too frightened to move or even think .
Then she began to wonder why that dreadful gun did n't go off .
What was Farmer Brown 's boy waiting for ?
She got to her feet .
She was sure that the first step would be her last , yet she could n't stay there .
How could Fanner Brown 's boy do such a dreadful thing ?
Somehow , his freckled face did n't look cruel .
He was even beginning to grin .
That must be because he had caught her napping and knew that this time she could n't possibly get away from him as she had so many times before .
`` Oh ! ''
sobbed Old Granny Fox under her breath .
And right at that very instant Farmer Brown 's boy did something .
What do you think it was ?
No , he did n't shoot her .
He did n't fire his dreadful gun .
What do you think he did do ?
Why , he threw a snowball at Old Granny Fox and shouted `` Boo ! ''
That is what he did and all he did , except to laugh as Granny gave a great leap and then made those black legs of hers fly as never before .
Every instant Granny expected to hear that dreadful gun , and it seemed as if her heart would burst with fright as she ran , thinking each jump would be the last one .
But the dreadful gun did n't bang , and after a little , when she felt she was safe , she turned to look back over her shoulder .
Farmer Brown 's boy was standing right where she had last seen him , and he was laughing harder than ever .
Yes , Sir , he was laughing , and though Old Granny Fox did n't think so at the time , his laugh was good to hear , for it was good-natured and merry and all that an honest laugh should be .
`` Go it , Granny !
Go it ! ''
shouted Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` And the next time you are tempted to steal my chickens , just remember that I caught you napping and let you off when I might have shot you .
Just remember that and leave my chickens alone . ''
Now it happened that Tommy Tit the Chickadee had seen all that had happened , and he fairly bubbled over with joy .
`` Dee , dee , dee , Chickadee !
It is just as I have always said -- Farmer Brown 's boy is n't bad .
He 'd be friends with every one if every one would let him , '' he cried .
`` Maybe , maybe , '' grumbled Sammy Jay , who also had seen all that had happened .
`` But he 's altogether too smart for me to trust .
Oh , my !
oh , my !
What news this will be to tell !
Old Granny Fox will never hear the end of it .
If ever again she boasts of how smart she is , all we will have to do will be to remind her of the time Farmer Brown 's boy caught her napping .
Ho !
ho !
ho !
I must hurry along and find my cousin , Blacky the Crow .
This will tickle him half to death . ''
As for Old Granny Fox , she feared Farmer Brown 's boy more than ever , not because of what he had done to her but because of what he had not done .
You see , nothing could make her believe that he wanted to be her friend .
She thought he had let her get away just to show her that he was smarter than she .
Instead of thankfulness , hate and fear filled Granny 's heart .
You know -- People who themselves do ill For others seldom have good will .
CHAPTER IX : Reddy Fox Hears About Granny Fox Though you may think another wrong And be quite positive you 're right , Do n't let your temper get away ; And try at least to be polite .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Sammy Jay hurried through the Green Forest , chuckling as he flew .
Sammy was brimming over with the news he had to tell , -- how Old Granny Fox had been caught napping by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Sammy would n't have believed it if any one had told him .
No , Sir , he would n't .
But he had seen it with his own eyes , and it tickled him almost to pieces to think that Old Granny Fox , whom everybody thought so sly and clever and smart , had been caught actually asleep by the very one of whom she was most afraid , but at whom she always had turned up her nose .
Presently Sammy spied Reddy Fox trotting along the Lone Little Path .
Reddy was forever boasting of how smart Granny Fox was .
He had boasted of it so much that everybody was sick of hearing him .
When he saw Reddy trotting along the Lone Little Path , Sammy chuckled harder than ever .
He hid in a thick hemlock-tree and as Reddy passed he shouted : `` Had I such a stupid old Granny As some folks who think they are smart , I never would boast of my Granny , But live by myself quite apart ! ''
Reddy looked up angrily .
He could n't see Sammy Jay , but he knew Sammy 's voice .
There is no mistaking that .
Everybody knows the voice of Sammy Jay .
Of course it was foolish , very foolish of Reddy to be angry , and still more foolish to show that he was angry .
Had he stopped a minute to think , he would have known that Sammy was saying such a mean , provoking thing just to make him angry , and that the angrier he became the better pleased Sammy Jay would be .
But like a great many people , Reddy allowed his temper to get the better of his common sense .
`` Who says Granny Fox is stupid ? ''
he snarled .
`` I do , '' replied Sammy Jay promptly .
`` I say she is stupid . ''
`` She is smarter than anybody else in all the Green Forest and on all the Green Meadows .
She is smarter than anybody else in all the Great World , '' boasted Reddy , and he really believed it .
`` She is n't smart enough to fool Farmer Brown 's boy , '' taunted Sammy .
`` What 's that ?
Who says so ?
Has anything happened to Granny Fox ? ''
Reddy forgot his anger in a sudden great fear .
Could Granny have been shot by Farmer Brown 's boy ?
`` Nothing much , only Farmer Brown 's boy caught her napping in broad daylight , '' replied Sammy , and chuckled so that Reddy heard him .
`` I do n't believe it ! ''
snapped Reddy .
`` I do n't believe a word of it !
Nobody ever yet caught Old Granny Fox napping , and nobody ever will . ''
`` I do n't care whether you believe it or not ; it 's so , for I saw him , '' retorted Sammy Jay .
`` You -- you -- you -- '' began Reddy Fox .
`` Go ask Tommy Tit the Chickadee if it is n't true .
He saw him too , '' interrupted Sammy Jay .
`` Dee , dee , dee , Chickadee !
It 's so , and Farmer Brown 's boy only threw a snowball at her and let her run away without shooting at her , '' declared a new voice .
There sat Tommy Tit himself .
Reddy did n't know what to think or say .
He just could n't believe it , yet he had never known Tommy Tit to tell an untruth .
Sammy Jay alone he would n't have believed .
Then Tommy Tit and Sammy Jay told Reddy all about what they had seen , how Farmer Brown 's boy had surprised Old Granny Fox and then allowed her to go unharmed .
Reddy had to believe it .
If Tommy Tit said it was so , it must be so .
Reddy Fox started off to hunt up Old Granny Fox and ask her about it .
But a sudden thought popped into his red head , and he changed his mind .
`` I wo n't say a thing about it until some time when Granny scolds me for being careless , '' muttered Reddy , with a sly grin .
`` Then I 'll see what she has to say .
I guess she wo n't scold me so much after this . ''
Reddy grinned more than ever , which was n't a bit nice of him .
Instead of being sorry that Old Granny Fox had had such a fright , he was planning how he would get even with her when she should scold him for his own carelessness .
CHAPTER X : Reddy Fox Is Impudent A saucy tongue is dangerous to possess ; Be sure some day ' t will get you in a mess .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Reddy Fox is headstrong and , like most headstrong people , is given to thinking that his way is the best way just because it is his way .
He is smart , is Reddy Fox .
Yes , indeed , Reddy Fox is very , very smart .
He has to be in order to live .
But a great deal of what he knows he learned from Old Granny Fox .
The very best tricks he knows she taught him .
She began teaching him when he was so little that he tumbled over his own feet .
It was she who taught him how to hunt , that it is better never to steal chickens near home but to go a long way off for them , and how to fool Bowser the Hound .
It was Granny who taught Reddy how to use his little black nose to follow the tracks of careless young Rabbits , and how to catch Meadow Mice under the snow .
In fact , there is little Reddy knows which he did n't learn from wise , shrewd Old Granny Fox .
But as he grew bigger and bigger , until he was quite as big as Granny herself , he forgot what he owed to her .
He grew to have a very good opinion of himself and to feel that he knew just about all there was to know .
So sometimes when he had done foolish or careless things and Granny had scolded him , telling him he was big enough and old enough to know better , he would sulk and go off muttering to himself .
But he never quite dared to be openly disrespectful to Granny , and this , of course , was quite as it should have been .
`` If only I could catch Granny doing something foolish or careless , '' he would say to himself .
But he never could , and he had begun to think that he never would .
But now at last Granny , clever Old Granny Fox , had been careless !
She had allowed Farmer Brown 's boy to catch her napping !
Reddy did wish he had been there to see it himself .
But anyway , he had been told about it , and he made up his mind that the next time Granny said anything sharp to him about his carelessness he would have something to say back .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox was deliberately planning to answer back , which , as you know , is always disrespectful to one 's elders .
At last the chance came .
Reddy did a thing no truly wise Fox ever will do .
He went two nights in succession to the same henhouse , and the second time he barely escaped being shot .
Old Granny Fox found out about it .
How she found out Reddy does n't know to this day , but find out she did , and she gave him such a scolding as even her sharp tongue had seldom given him .
`` You are the stupidest Fox I ever heard of , '' scolded Granny .
`` I 'm no more stupid than you are ! ''
retorted Reddy in the most impudent way .
`` What 's that ? ''
demanded Granny .
`` What 's that you said ? ''
`` I said I 'm no more stupid than you are , and what is more , I hope I 'm not so stupid .
I know better than to take a nap in broad daylight right under the very nose of Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
Reddy grinned in the most impudent way as he said this .
Granny 's eyes snapped .
Then things happened .
Reddy was cuffed this way and cuffed that way and cuffed the other way until it seemed to him that the air was full of black paws , every one of which landed on his head or face with a sting that made him whimper and put his tail between his legs , and finally howl .
`` There ! ''
cried Granny , when at last she had to stop because she was quite out of breath .
`` Perhaps that will teach you to be respectful to your elders .
I was careless and stupid , and I am perfectly ready to admit it , because it has taught me a lesson .
Wisdom often is gained through mistakes , but never when one is not willing to admit the mistakes .
No Fox lives long who makes the same mistake twice .
And those who are impudent to their elders come to no good end .
I 've got a fat goose hidden away for dinner , but you will get none of it . ''
`` I -- I wish I 'd never heard of Granny 's mistake , '' whined Reddy to himself as he crept dinnerless to bed .
`` You ought to wish that you had n't been impudent , '' whispered a small voice down inside him .
CHAPTER XI : After The Storm The joys and the sunshine that make us glad ; The worries and troubles that makes us sad Must come to an end ; so why complain Of too little sun or too much rain ?
-- Old Granny Fox .
The thing to do is to make the most of the sunshine while it lasts , and when it rains to look forward to the corning of the sun again , knowing that conic it surely will .
A dreadful storm was keeping the little people of the Green Forest , the Green Meadows , and the Old Orchard prisoners in their own homes or in such places of shelter as they had been able to find .
But it could n't last forever , and they knew it .
Knowing this was all that kept some of them alive .
You see , they were starving .
Yes , Sir , they were starving .
You and I would be very hungry , very hungry indeed , if we had to go without food for two whole days , but if we were snug and warm it would n't do us any real harm .
With the little wild friends , especially the little feathered folks , it is a very different matter .
You see , they are naturally so active that they have to fill their stomachs very often in order to supply their little bodies with heat and energy .
So when their food supply is wholly cut off , they starve or else freeze to death in a very short time .
A great many little lives are ended this way in every long , hard winter storm .
It was late in the afternoon of the second day when rough Brother North Wind decided that he had shown his strength and fierceness long enough , and rumbling and grumbling retired from the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , blowing the snow clouds away with him .
For just a little while before it was time for him to go to bed behind the Purple Hills , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun smiled down on the white land , and never was his smile more welcome .
Out from their shelters hurried all the little prisoners , for they must make the most of the short time before the coming of the cold night .
Little Tommy Tit the Chickadee was so weak that he could hardly fly , and he shook with chills .
He made straight for the apple-tree where Farmer Brown 's boy always keeps a piece of suet tied to a branch for Tommy and his friends .
Drummer the Woodpecker was there before him .
Now it is one of the laws of politeness among the feathered folk that when one is eating from a piece of suet a newcomer shall await his turn .
`` Dee , dee , dee ! ''
said Tommy Tit faintly but cheerfully , for he could n't be other than cheery if he tried .
`` Dee , dee , dee !
That looks good to me . ''
`` It is good , '' mumbled Drummer , pecking away at the suet greedily .
`` Come on , Tommy Tit .
Do n't wait for me , for I wo n't be through for a long time .
I 'm nearly starved , and I guess you must be . ''
`` I am , '' confessed Tommy , as he flew over beside Drummer .
`` Thank you ever so much for not making me wait . ''
`` Do n't mention it , '' replied Drummer , with his mouth full .
`` This is no time for politeness .
Here comes Yank Yank the Nuthatch .
I guess there is room for him too . ''
Yank Yank was promptly invited to join them and did so after apologizing for seeming so greedy .
`` If I could n't get my stomach full before night , I certainly should freeze to death before morning , '' said he .
`` What a blessing it is to have all this good food waiting for us .
If I had to hunt for my usual food on the trees , I certainly should have to give up and die .
It took all my strength to get over here .
My , I feel like a new bird already !
Here comes Sammy Jay .
I wonder if he will try to drive us away as he usually does . ''
Sammy did nothing of the kind .
He was very meek and most polite .
`` Can you make room for a starving fellow to get a bite ? ''
he asked .
`` I would n't ask it but that I could n't last another night without food . ''
`` Dee , dee , dee !
Always room for one more , '' replied Tommy Tit , crowding over to give Sammy room .
`` Was n't that a dreadful storm ? ''
`` Worst I ever knew , '' mumbled Sammy .
`` I wonder if I ever will be warm again . ''
Until their stomachs were full , not another word was said .
Meanwhile Chatterer the Red Squirrel had discovered that the storm was over .
As he floundered through the snow to another apple-tree he saw Tommy Tit and his friends , and in his heart he rejoiced that they had found food waiting for them .
His own troubles were at an end , for in the tree he was headed for was a store of corn .
CHAPTER XII : Granny And Reddy Fox Hunt In Vain Old Mother Nature 's plans for good Quite often are not understood .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Tommy Tit and Drummer the Woodpecker and Yank Yank the Nuthatch and Sammy Jay and Chatterer the Red Squirrel were not the only ones who were out and about as soon as the great storm ended .
Oh , my , no !
No , indeed !
Everybody who was not sleeping the winter away , or who had not a store of food right at hand , was out .
But not all were so fortunate as Tommy Tit and his friends in finding a good meal .
Peter Rabbit and Mrs. Peter came out of the hole in the heart of the dear Old Briar-patch , where they had managed to keep comfortably warm , and at once began to fill their stomachs with bark from young trees and tender tips of twigs .
It was very coarse food , but it would take away that empty feeling .
Mrs. Grouse burst out of the snow and hurried to get a meal before dark .
She had no time to be particular , and so she ate spruce buds .
They were very bitter and not much to her liking , but she was too hungry , and night was too near for her to be fussy .
She was thankful to have that much .
Granny Fox and Reddy were out too .
They did n't need to hurry because , as you know , they could hunt all night , but they were so hungry that they just had to be looking for something to eat .
They knew , of course , that everybody else would be out , and they hoped that some of these little people would be so weak that they could easily be caught .
That seems like a dreadful hope , does n't it ?
But one of the first laws of Old Mother Nature is self-preservation .
That means to save your own life first .
So perhaps Granny and Reddy are not to be blamed for hoping that some of their neighbors might be caught easily because of the great storm .
They were very hungry indeed , and they could not eat bark like Peter Rabbit , or buds like Mrs. Grouse , or seeds like Whitefoot the Woodmouse .
Their teeth and stomachs are not made for such food .
It was hard going for Granny and Reddy Fox .
The snow was soft and deep in many places , and they had to keep pretty close to those places where rough Brother North Wind had blown away enough of the snow to make walking fairly easy .
They soon found that their hope that they would find some of their neighbors too weak to escape was quite in vain .
When jolly , round , red Mr. Sun dropped clown behind the Purple Hills to go to bed , their stomachs were quite as empty as when they had started out .
`` We 'll go down to the Old Briar-patch .
I do n't believe it will be of much use , but you never can tell until you try .
Peter Rabbit may take it into his silly head to come outside , '' said Granny , leading the way .
When they reached the dear Old Briar-patch they found that Peter was not outside .
In fact , peering between the brambles and bushes , they could see his little brown form bobbing about as he hunted for tender bark .
He had already made little paths along which he could hop easily .
Peter saw them almost as soon as they saw him .
`` Hard times these , '' said Peter pleasantly .
`` I hope your stomachs are not as empty as mine . ''
He pulled a strip of bark from a young tree and began to chew it .
This was more than Reddy could stand .
To see Peter eating while his own stomach was just one great big ache from emptiness was too much .
`` I 'm going in there and catch him , or drive him out where you can catch him , if I tear my coat all to pieces ! ''
snarled Reddy .
Peter stopped chewing and sat up .
`` Come right along , Reddy .
Come right along if you want to , but I would advise you to save your skin and your coat , '' said he .
Reddy 's only reply was a snarl as he pushed his way under the brambles .
He yelped as they tore his coat and scratched his face , but he kept on .
Now Peter 's paths were very cunningly made .
He had cut them through the very thickest of the briars just big enough for himself and Mrs. Peter to hop along comfortably .
But Reddy is so much bigger that he had to force his way through and in places crawl flat on his stomach , which was very slow work , to say nothing of the painful scratches from the briars .
It was no trouble at all for Peter to keep out of his way , and before long Reddy gave up .
Without a word Granny Fox led the way to the Green Forest .
They would try to find where Mrs. Grouse was sleeping under the snow .
But though they hunted all night , they failed to find her , for she wisely had gone to bed in a spruce-tree .
CHAPTER XIII : Granny Fox Admits Growing Old Who will not admit he is older each day fools no one but himself .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox is a spry old lady for her age .
If you do n't believe it just try to catch her .
But spry as she is , she is n't as spry as she used to be .
No , Sir , Granny Fox is n't as spry as she used to be .
The truth is , Granny is getting old .
She never would admit it , and Reddy never had realized it until the day after the great storm .
All that night they had hunted in vain for something to eat and at daylight had crept into their house to rest awhile before starting on another hunt .
They had neither the strength nor the courage to search any longer then .
Wading through snow is very hard work at best and very tiresome , but when your stomach has been empty for so long that you almost begin to wonder what food tastes like , it becomes harder work still .
You see , it is food that makes strength , and lack of food takes away strength .
This was why Granny and Reddy Fox just HAD to rest .
Hungry as they were , they HAD to give up for awhile .
Reddy flung himself down , and if ever there was a discouraged young Fox he was that one .
`` I wish I were dead , '' he moaned .
`` Tut , tut , tut ! ''
said Granny Fox sharply .
`` That 's no way for a young Fox to talk !
I 'm ashamed of you .
I am indeed . ''
Then she added more kindly : `` I know just how you feel .
Just try to forget your empty stomach and rest awhile .
We have had a tiresome , disappointing , discouraging night , but when you are rested things will not look quite so bad .
You know the old saying : ` Never a road so long is there But it reaches a turn at last ; Never a cloud that gathers swift But disappears as fast . '
You think you could n't possibly feel any worse than you do right now , but you could .
Many a time I have had to go hungry longer than this .
After we have rested awhile we will go over to the Old Pasture .
Perhaps we will have better luck there . ''
So Reddy tried to forget the emptiness of his stomach and actually had a nap , for he was very , very tired .
When he awoke he felt better .
`` Well , Granny , '' said he , `` let 's start for the Old Pasture .
The snow has crusted over , and we wo n't find it such hard going as it was last night . ''
Granny arose and followed Reddy out to the doorstep .
She walked stiffly .
The truth is , she ached in every one of her old bones .
At least , that is the way it seemed to her .
She looked towards the Old Pasture .
It seemed very far away .
She sighed wearily .
`` I do n't believe I 'll go , Reddy , '' said she .
`` You run along and luck go with you . ''
Reddy turned and stared at Granny suspiciously .
You know his is a very suspicious nature .
Could it be that Granny had some secret plan of her own to get a meal and wanted to get rid of him ?
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
he demanded roughly .
`` It was you who proposed going over to the Old Pasture . ''
Granny smiled .
It was a sad sort of smile .
She is wonderfully sharp and smart , is Granny Fox , and she knew what was in Reddy 's mind as well as if he had told her .
`` Old bones do n't rest and recover as quickly as young bones , and I just do n't feel equal to going over there now , '' said she .
`` The truth is , Reddy , I am growing old .
I am going to stay right here and rest .
Perhaps then I 'll feel able to go hunting to-night .
You trot along now , and if you get more than a stomachful , just remember old Granny and bring her a bite . ''
There was something in the way Granny spoke that told Reddy she was speaking the truth .
It was the very first time she ever had admitted that she was growing old and was no longer the equal of any Fox .
Never before had he noticed how gray she had grown .
Reddy felt a feeling of shame creep over him , -- shame that he had suspected Granny of playing a sharp trick .
And this little feeling of shame was followed instantly by a splendid thought .
He would go out and find food of some kind , and he would bring it straight back to Granny .
He had been taken care of by Granny when he was little , and now he would repay Granny for all she had done for him by taking care of her in her old age .
`` Go back in the house and lie down , Granny , '' said he kindly .
`` I am going to get something , and whatever it may be you shall have your share . ''
With this he trotted off towards the Old Pasture and somehow he did n't mind the ache in his stomach as he had before .
CHAPTER XIV : Three Vain And Foolish Wishes There 's nothing so foolishly silly and vain As to wish for a thing you can never attain .
-- Old Granny Fox .
We all know that , yet most of us are just foolish enough to make such a wish now and then .
I guess you have done it .
I know I have .
Peter Rabbit has done it often and then laughed at himself afterwards .
I suspect that even shrewd , clever old Granny Fox has been guilty of it more than once .
So it is not surprising that Reddy Fox , terribly hungry as he was , should do a little foolish wishing .
When he left home to go to the Old Pasture , in the hope that he would be able to find something to eat there , he started off bravely .
It was cold , very cold indeed , but his fur coat kept him warm as long as he was moving .
The Green Meadows were glistening white with snow .
All the world , at least all that part of it with which Reddy was acquainted , was white .
It was beautiful , very beautiful , as millions of sparkles flashed in the sun .
But Reddy had no thought for beauty ; the only thought he had room for was to get something to put in the empty stomachs of himself and Granny Fox .
Jack Frost had hardened the snow so that Reddy no longer had to wade through it .
He could run on the crust now without breaking through .
This made it much easier , so he trotted along swiftly .
He had intended to go straight to the Old Pasture , but there suddenly popped into his head a memory of the shelter down in a far corner of the Old Orchard which Farmer Brown 's boy had built for Bob White .
Probably the Bob White family were there now , and he might surprise them .
He would go there first .
Reddy stopped and looked carefully to make sure that Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound were nowhere in sight .
Then he ran swiftly towards the Old Orchard .
Just as he entered it he heard a merry voice just over his head : `` Dee , dee , dee , dee ! ''
Reddy stopped and looked up .
There was Tommy Tit the Chickadee clinging tightly to a big piece of fresh suet tied fast to a branch of a tree , and Tommy was stuffing himself .
Reddy sat down right underneath that suet and looked up longingly .
The sight of it made his mouth water so that it was almost more than he could stand .
He jumped once .
He jumped twice .
He jumped three times .
But all his jumping was in vain .
That suet was beyond his reach .
There was no possible way of reaching it save by flying or climbing .
Reddy 's tongue hung out of his mouth with longing .
`` I wish I could climb , '' said Reddy .
But he could n't climb , and all the wishing in the world would n't enable him to , as he very well knew .
So after a little he started on .
As he drew near the far corner of the Old Orchard , he saw Bob White and Mrs. Bob and all the young Bobs picking up grain which Farmer Brown 's boy had scattered for them just in front of the shelter he had built for them .
Reddy crouched down and very slowly , an inch at a time , he crept forward , his eyes shining with eagerness .
Just as he was almost within springing distance , Bob White gave a signal , and away flew the Bob Whites to the safety of a hemlock-tree on the edge of the Green Forest .
Tears of rage and disappointment welled up in Reddy 's eyes .
`` I wish I could fly , '' he muttered , as he watched the brown birds disappear in the big hemlock-tree .
This was quite as foolish a wish as the other , so Reddy trotted on and decided to go down past the Smiling Pool .
When he got there he found it , as he expected , frozen over .
But just where the Laughing Brook joins it there was a little place where there was open water .
Billy Mink was on the ice at its edge , and just as Reddy got there Billy dived in .
A minute later he climbed out with a fish in his mouth .
`` Give me a bite , '' begged Reddy .
`` Catch your own fish , '' retorted Billy Mink .
`` I have to work hard enough for what I get as it is . ''
Reddy was afraid to go out on the ice where Billy was , and so he sat and watched him eat that fine fish .
Then Billy dived into the water again and disappeared .
Reddy waited a long time , but Billy did not return .
`` I wish I could dive , '' gulped Reddy , thinking of the fine fish somewhere under the ice .
And this wish was quite as foolish as the other wishes .
CHAPTER XV : Reddy Fights A Battle ' T is not the foes that are without But those that are within That give us battles that we find The hardest are to win .
-- Old Granny Fox After the last of his three foolish wishes , Reddy Fox left the Smiling Pool and headed straight for the Old Pasture for which he had started in the first place .
He wished now that he had gone straight there .
Then he would n't have seen the suet tied out of reach to the branch of a tree in the Old Orchard ; he would n't have seen the Bob Whites fly away to safety just as he felt almost sure of catching one ; he would n't have seen Billy Mink bring a fine fish out of the water and eat it right before him .
It is bad enough to be starving with no food in sight , but to be as hungry as Reddy Fox was and to see food just out of reach , to smell it , and not be able to get it is , -- well , it is more than most folks can stand patiently .
So Reddy Fox was grumbling to himself as he hurried to the Old Pasture and his heart was very bitter .
It seemed to him that everything was against him .
His neighbors had food , but he had none , not so much as a crumb .
It was unfair .
Old Mother Nature was unjust .
If he could climb he could get food .
If he could fly he could get food .
If he could dive he could get food .
But he could neither climb , fly , nor dive .
He did n't stop to think that Old Mother Nature had given him some of the sharpest wits in all the Green Forest or on all the Green Meadows ; that she had given him a wonderful nose ; that she had given him the keenest of ears ; that she had given him speed excelled by few .
He forgot these things and was so busy thinking bitterly of the things he did n't have that he forgot to use his wits and nose and ears when he reached the Old Pasture .
The result was that he trotted right past Old Jed Thumper , the big gray Rabbit , who was sitting behind a little bush holding his breath .
The minute Old Jed saw that Reddy was safely past , he started for his bull-briar castle as fast as he could .
It was not until then that Reddy discovered him .
Of course , Reddy started after him , and this time he made good use of his speed .
But he was too late .
Old Jed Thumper reached his castle with Reddy two jumps behind him .
Reddy knew now that there was no chance to catch Old Jed that day , and for a few minutes he felt more bitter than ever .
Then all in a flash Reddy Fox became the shrewd , clever fellow that he really is .
he grinned .
`` It 's of no use to try to fill an empty stomach on wishes , '' said he .
`` If I had come straight here and minded my own business , I 'd have caught old Jed Thumper .
Now I 'm going to get some food and I 'm not going home until I do . ''
Very wisely Reddy put all unpleasant thoughts out of his head and settled down to using his wits and his eyes and his ears and his nose for all they were worth , as Old Mother Nature had intended he should .
All through the Old Pasture he hunted , taking care not to miss a single place where there was the least chance of finding food .
But it was all in vain .
Reddy gulped down his disappointment .
`` Now for the Big River , '' said he , and started off bravely .
When he reached the edge of the Big River , he hurried along the bank until he reached a place where the water seldom freezes .
As he had hoped , he found that it was not frozen now .
It looked so black and cold that it made him shiver just to see it .
Back and forth with his nose to the ground he ran .
Suddenly he stopped and sniffed .
Then he sniffed again .
Then he followed his nose straight to the very edge of the Big River .
There , floating in the black water , was a dead fish !
By wading in he could get it .
Reddy shivered at the touch of the cold water , but what were wet feet compared with such an empty stomach as his ?
In a minute he had that fish and was back on the shore .
It was n't a very big fish , but it would stop the ache in his stomach until he could get something more .
With a sigh of pure happiness he sank his teeth into it and then -- well , then he remembered poor Old Granny Fox .
Reddy swallowed a mouthful and tried to forget Granny .
But he could n't .
He swallowed another mouthful .
Poor old Granny was back there at home as hungry as he was and too stiff and tired to hunt .
Reddy choked .
Then he began a battle with himself .
His stomach demanded that fish .
If he ate it , no one would be the wiser .
But Granny needed it even more than he did .
For a long time Reddy fought with himself .
In the end he picked up the fish and started for home .
CHAPTER XVI : Reddy Is Made Truly Happy It 's what you do for others , Not what they do for you , That makes you feel so happy All through and through and through .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Reddy Fox ran all the way home from the Big River just as fast as he could go .
In his mouth he carried the fish he had found and from which he had taken just two bites .
You remember he had had a battle with himself over that fish , and now he was running away from himself .
That sounds funny , does n't it ?
But it was true .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox was running away from himself .
He was afraid that if he did n't get home to Old Granny Fox with that fish very soon , he would eat every last bit of it himself .
So he was running his very hardest so as to get there before this could happen .
So really he was running away from himself , from his selfish self .
Old Granny Fox was on the doorstep watching for him , and he saw just how her hungry old eyes brightened when she saw him and what he had .
`` I 've brought you something to eat , Granny , '' he panted , as he laid the fish at her feet .
He was quite out of breath with running .
`` It is n't much , but it is something .
It is all I could find for you . ''
Granny looked at the fish and then she looked sharply at Reddy , and into those keen yellow eyes of hers crept a soft , tender look , such a look as you would never have believed they could have held .
`` What have YOU had to eat ? ''
asked Granny softly .
Reddy turned his head that Granny might not see his face .
`` Oh , I 've had something , '' said he , trying to speak lightly .
It was true ; he had had two bites from that fish .
Now you know just how shrewd and smart and wise Granny Fox is .
Reddy did n't fool her just the least little bit .
She took two small bites from the fish .
`` Now , '' said she , `` we 'll divide it , '' and she bit in two parts what remained .
In a twinkling she had gulped down the smallest part , for you know she was very , very hungry .
`` That is your share , '' said she , as she pushed what remained over to Reddy .
Reddy tried to refuse it .
`` I brought it all for you , '' said he .
`` I know you did , Reddy , '' replied Granny , and it seemed to Reddy that he never had known her voice to sound so gentle .
`` You brought it to me when all you had had was the two little bites you had taken from it .
You ca n't fool me , Reddy Fox .
There was n't one good meal for either of us in that fish , but there was enough to give us both a little hope and keep us from starving .
Now you mind what I say and eat your share . ''
Granny said this last very sternly .
Reddy looked at Granny , and then he bolted down that little piece of fish without another word .
`` That 's better , '' said Granny .
`` We will feel better , both of us .
Now that I 've something in my stomach , I feel two years younger .
Before you came , I did n't feel as if I should ever be able to go on another hunt .
If you had n't brought something , I -- I 'm afraid I could n't have lasted much longer .
By another day you probably would n't have had old Granny to think of .
You may not know it , but I know that you saved my life , Reddy .
I had reached a point where I just had to have a little food .
You know there are times when a very little food is of more good than a lot of food could be later .
This was one of those times . ''
Never in all his life had Reddy Fox felt so truly happy .
He was still hungry , -- very , very hungry .
But he gave it no thought .
He had saved Granny Fox , good old Granny who had taught him all he knew .
And he knew that Granny knew how he had had to fight with himself to do it .
Reddy was happy through and through with the great happiness that comes from having done something for some one else .
`` It was nothing , '' he muttered .
`` It was a very great deal , '' replied Granny .
And then she changed the subject .
`` How would you like to eat a dinner of Bowser the Hound 's ? ''
she asked .
CHAPTER XVII : Granny Fox Promises Reddy Bowser 's Dinner To give her children what each needs To get the most from life he can , To work and play and live his best , Is wise Old Mother Nature 's plan .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox asked Reddy how he would like to eat a dinner of Bowser the Hound 's , Reddy looked at her sharply to see if she were joking or really meant what she said .
Granny looked so sober and so much in earnest that Reddy decided she could n't be joking , even though it did sound that way .
`` I certainly would like it , Granny .
Yes , indeed , I certainly would like it , '' said he .
`` You -- you do n't suppose he will give us one , do you ? ''
Granny chuckled .
`` No , Reddy , '' said she .
`` Bowser is n't so generous as all that , especially to Foxes .
He is n't going to give us that dinner ; we are going to take it away from him .
Yes , Sir , we just naturally are going to take it away from , him . ''
Reddy did n't for the life of him see how it could be possible to take a dinner away from Bowser the Hound .
That seemed to him almost as impossible as it was for him to climb or fly or dive .
But he had great faith in Granny 's cleverness .
He remembered how she had so nearly caught Quacker the Duck .
He knew that all the time he had been away trying to find something for them to eat , old Granny Fox had been doing more than just rest her tired old bones .
He knew that not for one single minute had her sharp wits been idle .
He knew that all that time she had been studying and studying to find some way by which they could get something to eat .
So great was his faith in Granny just then that if she had told him she would get him a slice of the moon he would have believed her .
`` If you say we can take a dinner away from Bowser the Hound , I suppose we can , '' said Reddy , `` though I do n't see how .
But if we can , let 's do it right away .
I 'm hungry enough to dare almost anything for the sake of something to put in my stomach .
It is so empty that little bit of fish we divided is shaking around as if it were lost .
Gracious , I could eat a million fish the size of that one !
Have you thought of Fanner Brown 's hens , Granny ? ''
`` Of course , Reddy !
Of course !
What a silly question ! ''
replied Granny .
`` We may have to come to them yet . ''
`` I wish I was at them right now , '' interrupted Reddy with a sigh .
`` But you know what I have told you , '' went on Granny .
`` The surest way of getting into trouble is to steal hens .
I 'm not feeling quite up to being chased by Bowser the Hound just now , and if we came right home we would give away the secret of where we live and might be smoked out , and that would be the end of us .
Besides , those hens will be hard to get this weather , because they will stay in their house , and there is no way for us to get in there unless we walk right in , in broad daylight , and that would never do .
It will be a great deal better to take Bowser 's dinner away from him .
In the first place , if we are careful , no one but Bowser will know about it , and as long as he is chained up , we will have nothing to worry about from him .
Besides , we will enjoy getting even with him for the times he has spoiled our chances of catching a fat chicken and for the way he has hunted us .
Most decidedly it will be better and safer to try for Bowser 's dinner than to try for one of those hens . ''
`` Just as you say , Granny ; just as you say , '' returned Reddy .
`` You know best .
But how under the sun we can do it beats me . ''
`` It is very simple , '' replied Granny , `` very simple indeed .
Most things are simple enough when you find out how to do them .
Neither of us could do it alone , but together we can do it without the least bit of risk .
Listen . ''
Granny went close to Reddy and whispered to him , although there was n't a soul within hearing .
A slow grin spread over Reddy 's face as he listened .
When she had finished , he laughed right out .
`` Granny , you are a wonder ! ''
he exclaimed admiringly .
`` I never should have thought of that .
Of course we can do it .
My , wo n't Bowser be surprised !
And how mad he 'll be !
Come on , let 's be starting ! ''
`` All right , '' said Granny , and the two started towards Farmer Brown 's .
CHAPTER XVIII : Why Bowser The Hound Did n't Eat His Dinner The thing you 've puzzled most about Is simple once you 've found it out .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Bowser The Hound dearly loves to hunt just for the pleasure of the chase .
It is n't so much the desire to kill as it is the pleasure of using that wonderful nose of his and the excitement of trying to catch some one , especially Granny or Reddy Fox .
Farmer Brown 's boy had put away his dreadful gun because he no longer wanted to kill the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , but rather to make them his friends .
Bowser had missed the exciting hunts he used to enjoy so much with Farmer Brown 's boy .
So Bowser had formed the habit of slipping away alone for a hunt every once in a while .
When Farmer Brown 's boy discovered this , he got a chain and chained Bowser to his little house to keep him from running away and hunting on the sly .
Of course Bowser was n't kept chained all the time .
Oh , my , no !
When his master was about , where he could keep an eye on Bowser , he would let him go free .
But whenever he was going away and did n't want to take Bowser with him , he would chain Bowser up .
Now Bowser always had one good big meal a day .
To be sure , he had scraps or a bone now and then besides , but once a day he had one good big meal served to him in a large tin pan .
If he happened to be chained , it was brought out to him .
If not , it was given to him just outside the kitchen door .
Granny Fox knew all about this .
Sly old Granny makes it her business to know the affairs of other people around her because there is no telling when such knowledge may be of use to her .
So Granny had watched Bowser the Hound when he and his master had no idea at all that she was anywhere about , and she had found out his ways , the usual hour for his dinner and just how far that chain would allow him to go .
It was such things which she had stored away in that shrewd old head of hers that made her so sure she and Reddy could take Bowser 's dinner away from him .
It was just about Bowser 's dinner-time when Granny and Reddy trotted across the snow-covered fields and crept behind the barn until they could peep around the corner .
No one was in sight , not even Bowser , who was inside his warm little house at the end of the long shed back of Farmer Brown 's house .
Granny saw that he was chained and a sly grin crept over her face .
`` You stay right here and watch until his dinner is brought out to him , '' said she to Reddy .
`` As soon as whoever brings it has gone back to the house you walk right out where Bowser will see you .
At the sight of you , he 'll forget all about his dinner .
Sit right down where he can see you and stay there until you see that I have got that dinner , or until you hear somebody coming , for you know Bowser will make a great racket .
Then slip around back of the barn and join me back of that shed . ''
So Reddy sat down to watch , and Granny left him .
By and by Mrs. Brown came out of the house with a pan full of good things .
She put it down in front of Bowser 's little house and called to him .
Then she turned and hurried back , for it was very cold .
Bowser came out of his little house , yawned and stretched lazily .
It was time for Reddy to do his part .
Out he walked and sat down right in front of Bowser and grinned at him .
Bowser stared for a minute as if he doubted his own eyes .
Such impudence !
Bowser growled .
Then with a yelp he sprang towards Reddy .
Now the chain that held him was long , but Reddy had taken care not to get too near , and of course Bowser could n't reach him .
He tugged with all his might and yelped and barked frantically , but Reddy just sat there and grinned in the most provoking manner .
It was great fun to tease Bowser this way .
Meanwhile old Granny Fox had stolen out from around the corner of the shed behind Bowser .
Getting hold of the edge of the pan with her teeth she pulled it back with her around the corner and out of sight .
If she made any noise , Bowser did n't hear it .
He was making too much noise himself and was too excited .
Presently Reddy heard the sound of an opening door .
Mrs. Brown was coming to see what all the fuss was about .
Like a flash Reddy darted behind the barn , and all Mrs. Brown saw was Bowser tugging at his chain as he whined and yelped excitedly .
`` I guess he must have seen a stray cat or something , '' said Mrs. Brown and went back in the house .
Bowser continued to whine and tug at his chain for a few minutes .
Then he gave it up and , growling deep in his throat , turned to eat his dinner .
But there was n't any dinner !
It had disappeared , pan and all !
Bowser could n't understand it at all .
Back of the shed Granny and Reddy Fox licked that pan clean ; licked it until it was polished .
Then , with little sighs of satisfaction , and every once in a while a chuckle , they trotted happily home .
CHAPTER XIX : Old Man Coyote Does A Little Thinking Investigate and for yourself find out Those things which most you want to know about .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Never in all his life had Reddy Fox enjoyed a dinner more than that one he and Granny had stolen from Bowser the Hound .
Of course it would have tasted delicious anyway , because they were so dreadfully hungry , but to Reddy it tasted better still because it had been intended for Bowser .
Bowser has hunted Reddy so often that Reddy has no love for him at all , and it tickled him almost to death to think that they had taken his dinner from almost under his nose .
With that good dinner in their stomachs , Reddy and Granny Fox felt so much better that the Great World no longer seemed such a cold and cruel place .
Funny how differently things look when your stomach is full from the way those same things look when it is empty .
Best of all they knew they could play the same sharp trick again and steal another dinner from Bowser if need be .
It is a comforting feeling , a very comforting feeling , to know for a certainty where you can get another meal .
It is a feeling that Granny and Reddy Fox and many other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest seldom have in winter .
As a rule , when they have eaten one meal , they have n't the least idea where the next one is coming from .
How would you like to live that way ?
The very next day Granny and Reddy went up to Farmer Brown 's at Bowser 's dinner hour .
But this time Farmer Brown 's boy was at work near the barn , and Bowser was not chained .
Granny and Reddy stole away as silently as they had come .
On the day following they found Bowser chained and stole another dinner from him ; then they went away laughing until their sides ached as they heard Bowser 's whines of surprise and disappointment when he discovered that his dinner had vanished .
They knew by the sound of his voice that he had n't the least idea what had become of that dinner .
Now there was some one else roaming over the snow-covered meadows and through the Green Forest and the Old Pasture these days with a stomach so lean and empty that he could n't think of anything else .
It was Old Man Coyote .
You know he is very clever , is Old Man Coyote , and he managed to find enough food of one kind and another to keep him alive , but never enough to give him that comfortable feeling of a full stomach .
While he was n't actually starving , he was always hungry .
So he spent all the time when he was n't sleeping in hunting for something to eat .
Of course he often ran across the tracks of Granny and Reddy Fox , and once in a while he would meet them .
It struck Old Man Coyote that they did n't seem as thin as he was .
That set him to thinking .
Neither of them was a smarter hunter than he .
In fact , he prided himself on being smarter than either of them .
Yet when he met them , they seemed to be in the best of spirits and not at all worried because food was so scarce .
Why ?
There must be a reason .
They must be getting food of which he knew nothing .
`` I 'll just keep an eye on them , '' muttered Old Man Coyote .
So very slyly and cleverly Old Man Coyote followed Granny and Reddy Fox , taking the greatest care that they should not suspect that he was doing it .
All one night he followed them through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows , and when at last he saw them go home , appearing not at all worried because they had caught nothing , he trotted off to his own home to do some more thinking .
`` They are getting food somewhere , that is sure , '' he muttered , as he scratched first one ear and then the other .
Somehow he could think better when he was scratching his ears .
`` If they do n't get it in the night , and they certainly did n't get anything this night , they must get it in the daytime .
I 've done considerable hunting myself in the daytime , and I have n't once met them in the Green Forest or seen them on the Green Meadows or up in the Old Pasture .
I wonder if they are stealing Farmer Brown 's hens and have n't been found out yet .
I 've kept away from there myself , but if they can steal hens and not be caught , I certainly can .
There never was a Fox yet smart enough to do a thing that a Coyote can not do if he tries .
I think I 'll slip up where I can watch Farmer Brown 's and see what is going on up there .
Yes , Sir , that 's what I 'll do . ''
With this , Old Man Coyote grinned and then curled himself up for a short nap , for he was tired .
CHAPTER XX : A Twice Stolen Dinner No one ever is so smart that some one else may not prove to be smarter still .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Listen and you shall hear all about three rogues .
Two were in red and were Granny and Reddy Fox .
And one was in gray and was Old Man Coyote .
They were the slyest , smartest rogues on all the Green Meadows or in all the Green Forest .
All three had started out to steal the same dinner , but the funny part is they did n't intend to steal it from the same person .
And still funnier is it that one of them did n't even know where that dinner was or what kind of a dinner it would be .
True to his resolve to know what Granny and Reddy Fox were getting to eat , and where they were getting it , Old Man Coyote hid where he could see what was going on about Farmer Brown 's , for it was there he felt sure that Granny and Reddy were getting food .
He had waited only a little while when along came Granny and Reddy Fox past the place where Old Man Coyote was hiding .
They did n't see him .
Of course not .
He took care that they should have no chance .
But anyway , they were not thinking of him .
Their thoughts were all of that dinner they intended to have , and the smart trick by which they would get it .
So with their thoughts all on that dinner they slipped up behind the barn and prepared to work the trick which had been so successful before .
Old Man Coyote crept after them .
He saw Reddy Fox lie down where he could peep around the corner of the barn to watch Bowser the Hound and to see that no one else was about .
He saw Granny leave Reddy there and hurry away .
Old Man Coyote 's wits worked fast .
`` I ca n't be in two places at once , '' thought he , `` so I ca n't watch both Granny and Reddy .
As I can watch but one , which one shall it be ?
Granny , of course .
Granny is the smartest of the two , and whatever they are up to , she is at the bottom of it .
Granny is the one to follow . ''
So , like a gray shadow , crafty Old Man Coyote stole after Granny Fox and saw her hide behind the corner of the shed at the end of which was the little house of Bowser the Hound .
He crept as near as he dared and then lay flat down behind a little bunch of dead grass close to the shed .
For some time nothing happened , and Old Man Coyote was puzzled .
Every once in a while Granny Fox would look behind and all about to be sure that no danger was near , but she did n't see Old Man Coyote .
After what seemed to him a long time , he heard a door open on the other side of the shed .
It was Mrs. Brown carrying Bowser 's dinner out to him .
Of course , Old Man Coyote did n't know this .
He knew by the sounds that some one had come out of the house , and it made him nervous .
He did n't like being so close to Farmer Brown 's house in broad daylight .
But he kept his eyes on Granny Fox , and he saw her ears prick up in a way that he knew meant that those sounds were just what she had been waiting for .
`` If she is n't afraid , I do n't need to be , '' thought he craftily .
After a few minutes he heard a door close and knew that whoever had come out had gone back into the house .
Almost at once Bowser the Hound began to yelp and whine .
Swiftly Granny Fox disappeared around the corner of the shed .
Just as swiftly Old Man Coyote ran forward and peeped around the corner .
There was Bowser the Hound tugging at his chain , and just beyond his reach was Reddy Fox , grinning in the most provoking manner .
And there was Granny Fox , backing and dragging after her Bowser 's dinner .
In a flash Old Man Coyote understood the plan , and he almost chuckled aloud at the cleverness of it .
Then he hastily backed behind the shed and waited .
In a minute Granny Fox appeared , dragging Bowser 's dinner .
She was so intent on getting that dinner that she almost backed into Old Man Coyote without suspecting that he was anywhere about .
`` Thank you , Granny .
You need n't bother about it any longer ; I 'll take it now , '' growled Old Man Coyote in Granny 's ear .
Granny let go of that dinner as if it burned her tongue , and with a frightened little yelp leaped to one side .
A minute later Reddy came racing around from behind the barn eager for his share .
What he saw was Old Man Coyote bolting down that twice-stolen dinner while Granny Fox fairly danced with rage .
CHAPTER XXI : Granny And Reddy Talk Things Over .
You 'll find as on through life you go The thing you want may prove to be The very thing you should n't have .
Then seeming loss is gain , you see .
-- Old Granny Fox .
If ever two folks were mad away through , those two were Granny and Reddy Fox as they watched Old Man Coyote gobble up the dinner they had so cleverly stolen from Bowser the Hound .
It was bad enough to lose the dinner , but it was worse to see some one else eat it after they had worked so hard to get it .
`` Robber ! ''
snarled Granny .
Old Man Coyote stopped eating long enough to grin .
`` Thief !
Sneak !
Coward ! ''
snarled Reddy .
Once more Old Man Coyote grinned .
When that dinner had disappeared down his throat to the last and smallest crumb , he licked his chops and turned to Granny and Reddy .
`` I 'm very much obliged for that dinner , '' said he pleasantly , his eyes twinkling with mischief .
`` It was the best dinner I have had for a long time .
Allow me to say that that trick of yours was as smart a trick as ever I have seen .
It was quite worthy of a Coyote .
You are a very clever old lady , Granny Fox .
Now I hear some one coming , and I would suggest that it will be better for all concerned if we are not seen about here . ''
He darted off behind the barn like a gray streak , and Granny and Reddy followed , for it was true that some one was coming .
You see Bowser the Hound had discovered that something was going on around the corner of the shed , and he made such a racket that Mrs. Brown had come out of the house to see what it was all about .
By the time she got around there , all she saw was the empty pan which had held Bowser 's dinner .
She was puzzled .
How that pan could be where it was she could n't understand , and Bowser could n't tell her , although he tried his very best .
She had been puzzled about that pan two or three times before .
Old Man Coyote lost no time in getting back home , for he never felt easy near the home of man in broad daylight .
Granny and Reddy Fox went home too , and there was hate in their hearts , -- hate for Old Man Coyote .
But once they reached home , Old Granny Fox stopped growling , and presently she began to chuckle .
`` What are you laughing at ? ''
demanded Reddy .
`` At the way Old Man Coyote stole that dinner from us , '' replied Granny .
`` I hate him !
He 's a sneaking robber ! ''
snapped Reddy .
`` Tut , tut , Reddy !
Tut , tut ! ''
retorted Granny .
`` Be fair-minded .
We stole that dinner from Bowser the Hound , and Old Man Coyote stole it from us .
I guess he is no worse than we are , when you come to think it over .
Now is he ? ''
`` I -- I -- well , I do n't suppose he is , when you put it that way , '' Reddy admitted grudgingly .
`` And he was smart , very smart , to outwit two such clever people as we are , '' continued Granny .
`` You will have to agree to that . ''
`` Y-e-s , '' said Reddy slowly .
`` He was smart enough , but -- '' `` There is n't any but , Reddy , '' interrupted Granny .
`` You know the law of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It is everybody for himself , and anything belongs to one who has the wit or the strength to take it .
We had the wit to take that dinner from Bowser the Hound , and Old Man Coyote had the wit to take it from us and the strength to keep it .
It was all fair enough , and you know there is n't the least use in crying over spilled milk , as the saying is .
We simply have got to be smart enough not to let him fool us again .
I guess we wo n't get any more of Bowser 's dinners for a while .
We 've got to think of some other way of filling our stomachs when the hunting is poor .
I think if I could have just one of those fat hens of Farmer Brown 's , it would put new strength into my old bones .
All summer I warned you to keep away from that henyard , but the time has come now when I think we might try for a couple of those hens . ''
Reddy pricked up his ears at the mention of fat hens .
`` I think so too , '' said he .
`` When shall we try for one ? ''
`` To-morrow morning , '' replied Granny .
`` Now do n't bother me while I think out a plan . ''
CHAPTER XXII : Granny Fox Plans To Get A Fat Hen Full half success for Fox or Man Is won by working out a plan .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Granny Fox knows this .
No one knows it better .
Whatever she does is first carefully planned in her wise old head .
So now after she had decided that she and Reddy would try for one of Farmer Brown 's fat hens , she lay down to think out a plan to get that fat hen .
No one knew better than she how foolish it would be to go over to that henyard and just trust to luck for a chance to catch one of those biddies .
Of course , they might be lucky and get a hen that way , but then again they might be unlucky and get in a peck of trouble .
`` You see , '' said she to Reddy , `` we must not only plan how to get that fat hen , but we must also plan how to get away with it safely .
If only there was some way of getting in that henhouse at night , there would be no trouble at all .
I do n't suppose there is the least chance of that . ''
`` Not the least chance in the world , '' replied Reddy .
`` There is n't a hole anywhere big enough for even Shadow the Weasel to get through , and Farmer Brown 's boy is very careful to lock the door every night . ''
`` There 's a little hole that the hens go in and out of during the day , which is big enough for one of us to slip through , I believe , '' said Granny thoughtfully .
`` Sure !
But it 's always closed at night , '' snapped Reddy .
`` Besides , to get to that or the door either , you have got to get inside the henyard , and there 's a gate to that which we ca n't open . ''
`` People are sometimes careless , -- even you , Reddy , '' said Granny .
Reddy squirmed uneasily , for he had been in trouble many times through carelessness .
`` Well , what of it ? ''
he demanded a wee bit crossly .
`` Nothing much , only if that hen-yard gate should happen to be left open , and if Farmer Brown 's boy should happen to forget to close that little hole that the hens go through , and if we happened to be around at just that time -- '' `` Too many ifs to get a dinner with , '' interrupted Reddy .
`` Perhaps , '' replied Granny mildly , `` but I 've noticed that it is the one who has an eye open for all the little ifs in life that fares the best .
Now I 've kept an eye on that henyard , and I 've noticed that very often Farmer Brown 's boy does n't close the henyard gate at night .
I suppose he thinks that if the henhouse door is locked , the gate does n't matter .
Any one who is careless about one thing , is likely to be careless about another .
Sometime he may forget to close that hole .
I told you that we would try for one of those hens to-morrow morning , but the more I think about it , the more I think it will be wiser to visit that henhouse a few nights before we run the risk of trying to catch a hen in broad daylight .
In fact , I am pretty sure I can make Farmer Brown 's boy forget to close that gate . ''
`` How ? ''
demanded Reddy eagerly .
Granny grinned .
`` I 'll try it first and tell you afterwards , '' said she .
`` I believe Farmer Brown 's boy closes the henhouse up just before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun goes to bed behind the Purple Hills , does n't he ? ''
Reddy nodded .
Many times from a safe hiding-place he had hungrily watched Farmer Brown 's boy shut the biddies up .
It was always just before the Black Shadows began to creep out from their hiding-places .
`` I thought so , '' said Granny .
The truth is , she KNEW so .
There was nothing about that henhouse and what went on there that Granny did n't know quite as well as Reddy .
`` You stay right here this afternoon until I return .
I 'll see what I can do . ''
`` Let me go along , '' begged Reddy .
`` No , '' replied Granny in such a decided tone that Reddy knew it would be of no use to tease .
`` Sometimes two can do what one can not do alone , and sometimes one can do what two might spoil .
Now we may as well take a nap until it is time for Mr. Sun to go to bed .
Just you leave it to your old Granny to take care of the first of those ifs .
For the other one we 'll have to trust to luck , but you know we are lucky sometimes . ''
With this Granny curled up for a nap , and having nothing better to do , Reddy followed her example .
CHAPTER XXIII : Farmer Brown 's Boy Forgets To Close The Gate How easy ' t is to just forget Until , alas , it is too late .
The most methodical of folks Sometimes forget to shut the gate .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Farmer Brown 's Boy is not usually the forgetful kind .
He is pretty good about not forgetting .
But Farmer Brown 's boy is n't perfect by any means .
He does forget sometimes , and he is careless sometimes .
He would be a funny kind of boy otherwise .
But take it day in and day out , he is pretty thoughtful and careful .
The care of the hens is one of Farmer Brown 's boy 's duties .
It is one of those duties which most of the time is a pleasure .
He likes the biddies , and he likes to take care of them .
Every morning one of the first things he does is to feed them and open the henhouse so that they can run in the henyard if they want to .
Every night he goes out just before dark , collects the eggs and locks the henhouse so that no harm can come to the biddies while they are asleep on their roosts .
After the big snowstorm he had shovelled a place in the henyard where the hens could come out and exercise and get a sun-bath when they wanted to , and in the very warmest part of the clay they would do this .
Always in the daytime he took the greatest care to see that the henyard gate was fastened , for no one knew better than he how bold Granny and Reddy Fox can be when they are very hungry , and in winter they are very apt to be very hungry most of the time .
So he did n't intend to give them a chance to slip into that henyard while the biddies were out , or to give the biddies a chance to stray outside where they might be still more easily caught .
But at night he sometimes left that gate open , as Granny Fox had found out .
You see , he thought it did n't matter because the hens were locked in their warm house and so were safe , anyway .
It was just at dusk of the afternoon of the day when Granny and Reddy Fox had talked over a plan to get one of those fat hens that Farmer Brown 's boy collected the eggs and saw to it that the biddies had gone to roost for the night .
He had just started to close the little sliding door across the hole through which the hens went in and out in the daytime when Bowser the Hound began to make a great racket , as if terribly excited about something .
Farmer Brown 's boy gave the little sliding door a hasty push , picked up his basket of eggs , locked the henhouse door and hurried out through the gate without stopping to close it .
You see , he was in a hurry to find out what Bowser was making such a fuss about .
Bowser was yelping and whining and tugging at his chain , and it was plain to see that he was terribly eager to be set free .
`` What is it , Bowser , old boy ?
Did you see something ? ''
asked Farmer Brown 's boy as he patted Bowser on the head .
`` I ca n't let you go , you know , because you probably would go off hunting all night and come home in the morning all tired out and with sore feet .
Whatever it was , I guess you 've scared it out of a year 's growth , old fellow , so we 'll let it go at that . ''
Bowser still tugged at his chain and whined , but after a little he quieted down .
His master looked around behind the barn to see if he could see what had so stirred up Bowser , but nothing was to be seen , and he returned , patted Bowser once more , and went into the house , never once giving that open henyard gate another thought .
Half an hour later old Granny Fox joined Reddy Fox , who was waiting on the doorstep of their home .
`` It is all right , Reddy ; that gate is open , '' said she .
`` How did you do it , Granny ? ''
asked Reddy eagerly .
`` Easily enough , '' replied Granny .
`` I let Bowser get a glimpse of me just as his master was locking up the henhouse .
Bowser made a great fuss , and of course , Farmer Brown 's boy hurried out to see what it was all about .
He was in too much of a hurry to close that gate , and afterwards he forgot all about it or else he thought it did n't matter .
Of course , I did n't let him get so much as a glimpse of me . ''
`` Of course , '' said Reddy .
CHAPTER XXIV : A Midnight Visit By those who win ' t is well agreed He 'll try and try who would succeed .
-- Old Granny Fox .
It seemed to Reddy Fox as if time never had dragged so slowly as it did this particular night while he and Granny Fox waited until Granny thought it safe to visit Farmer Brown 's henhouse and see if by any chance there was a way of getting into it .
Reddy tried not to hope too much .
Granny had found a way to get the gate to the henyard left open , but this would do them no good unless there was some way of getting into the house , and this he very much doubted .
But if there was a way he wanted to know it , and he was impatient to start .
But Granny was in no hurry .
Not that she was n't just as hungry for a fat hen as was Reddy , but she was too wise and clever and altogether too sly to run any risks .
`` There is nothing gained by being in too much of a hurry , Reddy , '' said she , `` and often a great deal is lost in that way .
A fat hen will taste just as good a little later as it would now , and it will be foolish to go up to Farmer Brown 's until we are sure that everybody up there is asleep .
But to ease your mind , I 'll tell you what we will do ; we 'll go where we can see Farmer Brown 's house and watch until the last light winks out . ''
So they trotted to a point where they could see Farmer Brown 's house , and there they sat down to watch .
It seemed to Reddy that those lights never would wink out .
But at last they did .
`` Come on , Granny ! ''
he cried , jumping to his feet .
`` Not yet , Reddy .
Not yet , '' replied Granny .
`` We 've got to give folks time to get sound asleep .
If we should get into that henhouse , those hens might make a racket , and if anything like that is going to happen , we want to be sure that Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy are asleep . ''
This was sound advice , and Reddy knew it .
So with a groan he once more threw himself down on the snow to wait .
At last Granny arose , stretched , and looked up at the twinkling stars .
`` Come on , '' said she and led the way .
Up back of the barn and around it they stole like two shadows and quite as noiselessly as shadows .
They heard Bowser the Hound sighing in his sleep in his snug little house , and grinned at each other .
Silently they stole over to the henyard .
The gate was open , just as Granny had told Reddy it would be .
Across the henyard they trotted swiftly , straight to where more than once in the daytime they had seen the hens come out of the house through a little hole .
It was closed .
Reddy had expected it would be .
Still , he was dreadfully disappointed .
He gave it merely a glance .
`` I knew it would n't be any use , '' said he with a half whine .
But Granny paid no attention to him .
She went close to the hole and pushed gently against the little door that closed it .
It did n't move .
Then she noticed that at one edge there was a tiny crack .
She tried to push her nose through , but the crack was too narrow .
Then she tried a paw .
A claw caught on the edge of the door , and it moved ever so little .
Then Granny knew that the little door was n't fastened .
Granny stretched herself flat on the ground and went to work , first with one paw , then with the other .
By and by she caught her claws in it just right again , and it moved a wee bit more .
No , most certainly that door was n't fastened , and that crack was a little wider .
`` What are you wasting your time there for ? ''
demanded Reddy crossly .
`` We 'd better be off hunting if we would have anything to eat this night . ''
Granny said nothing but kept on working .
She had discovered that this was a sliding door .
Presently the crack was wide enough for her to get her nose in .
Then she pushed and twisted her head this way and that .
The little door slowly slid back , and when Reddy turned to speak to her again , for he had had his back to her , she was nowhere to be seen .
Reddy just gaped and gaped foolishly .
There was no Granny Fox , but there was a black hole where she had been working , and from it came the most delicious smell , -- the smell of fat hens !
It seemed to Reddy that his stomach fairly flopped over with longing .
He rubbed his eyes to be sure that he was awake .
Then in a twinkling he was inside that hole himself .
`` Sh-h-h , be still ! ''
whispered Old Granny Fox .
CHAPTER XXV : A Dinner For Two Dark deeds are done in the stilly night , And who shall say if they 're wrong or right ?
-- Old Granny Fox .
It all depends on how you look at things .
Of course , Granny and Reddy Fox had no business to be in Farmer Brown 's henhouse in the middle of the night , or at any other time , for that matter .
That is , they had no business to be there , as Farmer Brown would look at the matter .
He would have called them two red thieves .
Perhaps that is just what they were .
But looking at the matter as they did , I am not so sure about it .
To Granny and Reddy Fox those hens were simply big , rather stupid birds , splendid eating if they could be caught , and bound to be eaten by somebody .
The fact that they were in Farmer Brown 's henhouse did n't make them his any more than the fact that Mrs. Grouse was in a part of the Green Forest owned by Farmer Brown made her his .
You see , among the little meadow and forest people there is no such thing as property rights , excepting in the matter of storehouses , and because these hens were alive , it did n't occur to Granny and Reddy that the henhouse was a sort of storehouse .
It would have made no difference if it had .
Among the little people it is considered quite right to help yourself from another 's storehouse if you are smart enough to find it and really need the food .
Besides , Reddy and Granny knew that Fanner Brown and his boy would eat some of those hens themselves , and they did n't begin to need them as Reddy and Granny did .
So as they looked at the matter , there was nothing wrong in being in that henhouse in the middle of the night .
They were there simply because they needed food very , very much , and food was there .
They stared up at the roosts where the biddies were huddled together , fast asleep .
They were too high up to be reached from the floor even when Reddy and Granny stood on their hind legs and stretched as far as they could .
`` We 've got to wake them up and scare them so that some of the silly things will fly down where we can catch them , '' said Reddy , licking his lips hungrily .
`` That wo n't do at all ! ''
snapped Granny .
`` They would make a great racket and waken Bowser the Hound , and he would waken his master , and that is just what we must n't do if we hope to ever get in here again .
I thought you had more sense , Reddy . ''
Reddy looked a little shamefaced .
`` Well , if we do n't do that , how are we going to get them ?
We ca n't fly , '' he grumbled .
`` You stay right here where you are , '' snapped Granny , `` and take care that you do n't make a sound . ''
Then Granny jumped lightly to a little shelf that ran along in front of the nesting boxes .
From this she could reach the lower roost on which four fat hens were asleep .
Very gently she pushed her head in between two of these and crowded them apart .
Sleepily they protested and moved along a little .
Granny continued to crowd them .
At last one of them stretched out her head to see who was crowding so .
Like a flash Granny seized that head , and biddy never knew what had wakened her , nor did she have a chance to waken the others .
Dropping this hen at Reddy 's feet , Granny crowded another until she did the same thing , and just the same thing happened once more .
Then Granny jumped lightly down , picked up one of the hens by the neck , slung the body over her shoulder , and told Reddy to do the same with the other and start for home .
`` Are n't you going to get any more while we have the chance ? ''
grumbled Reddy .
`` Enough is enough , '' retorted Granny .
`` We 've got a dinner for two , and so far no one is any the wiser .
Perhaps these two wo n't be missed , and we 'll have a chance to get some more another night .
Now come on . ''
This was plain common sense , and Reddy knew it , so without another word he followed old Granny Fox out by the way they had entered , and then home to the best dinner he had had for a long long time .
CHAPTER XXVI : Farmer Brown 's Boy Sets A Trap The trouble is that troubles are , More frequently than not , Brought on by naught but carelessness ; By some one who forgot .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Granny Fox had hoped that those two hens she and Reddy had stolen from Farmer Brown 's henhouse would not be missed , but they were .
They were missed the very first thing the next morning when Farmer Brown 's boy went to feed the biddies .
He discovered right away that the little sliding door which should have closed the opening through which the hens went in and out of the house was open , and then he remembered that he had left the henyard gate open the night before .
Carefully Farmer Brown 's boy examined the hole with the sliding door .
`` Ha ! ''
said he presently , and held up two red hairs which he had found on the edge of the door .
`` Ha !
I thought as much .
I was careless last night and did n't fasten this door , and I left the gate open .
Reddy Fox has been here , and now I know what has become of those two hens .
I suppose it serves me right for my carelessness , and I suppose if the truth were known , those hens were of more real good to him than they ever could have been to me , because the poor fellow must be having pretty hard work to get a living these hard winter days .
Still , I ca n't have him stealing any more .
That would never do at all .
If I shut them up every night and am not careless , he ca n't get them .
But accidents will happen , and I might do just as I did last night -- think I had locked up when I had n't .
I do n't like to set a trap for Reddy , but I must teach the rascal a lesson .
If I do n't , he will get so bold that those chickens wo n't be safe even in broad daylight . ''
Now at just that very time over in their home , Granny and Reddy Fox were talking over plans for the future , and shrewd old Granny was pointing out to Reddy how necessary it was that they should keep away from that henyard for some time .
`` We 've had a good dinner , a splendid dinner , and if we are smart enough we may be able to get more good dinners where this one came from , '' said she .
`` But we certainly wo n't if we are too greedy . ''
`` But I do n't believe Farmer Brown 's boy has missed those two chickens , and I do n't see any reason at all why we should n't go back there to-night and get two more if he is stupid enough to leave that gate and little door open , '' whined Reddy .
`` Maybe he has n't missed those two , but if we should take two more he certainly would miss them , and he would guess what had become of them , and that might get us into no end of trouble , '' snapped Granny .
`` We are not starving now , and the best thing for us to do is to keep away from that henhouse until we ca n't get anything to eat anywhere else , Now you mind what I tell you , Reddy , and do n't you dare go near there . ''
Reddy promised , and so it came about that Farmer Brown 's boy hunted up a trap all for nothing so far as Reddy and Granny were concerned .
Very carefully he bound strips of cloth around the jaws of the trap , for he could n't bear to think of those cruel jaws cutting into the leg of Reddy , should he happen to get caught .
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy did n't intend to kill Reddy if he should catch him , but to make him a prisoner for a while and so keep him out of mischief .
That night he hid the trap very cunningly just inside the henhouse where any one creeping through that little hole made for the hens to go in and out would be sure to step in it .
Then he purposely left the little sliding door open part way as if it had been forgotten , and he also left the henyard gate open just as he had done the night before .
`` There now , Master Reddy , '' said he , talking to himself , `` I rather think that you are going to get into trouble before morning . ''
And doubtless Reddy would have done just that thing but for the wisdom of sly old Granny .
CHAPTER XXVII : Prickly Porky Takes A Sun Bath Danger comes when least expected ; ' T is often near when not expected .
-- Old Granny Fox .
The long hard winter had passed , and Spring had come .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine came down from a tall poplar-tree and slowly stretched himself .
He was tired of eating .
He was tired of swinging in the tree-top .
`` I believe I 'll have a sun-bath , '' said Prickly Porky , and lazily walked toward the edge of the Green Forest in search of a place where the sun lay warm and bright .
Now Prickly Porky 's stomach was very , very full .
He was fat and naturally lazy , so when he came to the doorstep of an old house just on the edge of the Green Forest he sat down to rest .
It was sunny and warm there , and the longer he sat the less like moving he felt .
He looked about him with his dull eyes and grunted to himself .
`` It 's a deserted house .
Nobody lives here , and I guess nobody 'll care if I take a nap right here on the doorstep , '' said Prickly Porky to himself .
`` And I do n't care if they do , '' he added , for Prickly Porky the Porcupine was afraid of nobody and nothing .
So Prickly Porky made himself as comfortable as possible , yawned once or twice , tried to wink at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who was winking and smiling down at him and then fell fast asleep right on the doorstep of the old house .
Now the old house had been deserted .
No one had lived in it for a long , long time , a very long time indeed .
But it happened that , the night before , old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox had had to move out of their nice home on the edge of the Green Meadows because Farmer Brown 's boy had found it .
Reddy was very stiff and sore , for he had been shot by a hunter .
He was so sore he could hardly walk , and could not go very far .
So old Granny Fox had led him to the old deserted house and put him to bed in that .
`` No one will think of looking for us here , for every one knows that no one lives here , '' said old Granny Fox , as she made Reddy as comfortable as possible .
As soon as it was daylight , Granny Fox slipped out to watch for Farmer Brown 's boy , for she felt sure that he would come back to the house they had left , and sure enough he did .
He brought a spade and dug the house open , and all the time old Granny Fox was watching him from behind a fence corner and laughing to think that she had been smart enough to move in the night .
But Reddy Fox did n't know anything about this .
He was so tired that he slept and slept and slept .
It was the middle of the morning when finally he awoke .
He yawned and stretched , and when he stretched he groaned because he was so stiff and sore .
Then he hobbled up toward the doorway to see if old Granny Fox had left any breakfast outside for him .
It was dark , very dark .
Reddy was puzzled .
Could it be that he had gotten up before daylight -- that he had n't slept as long as he thought ?
Perhaps he had slept the whole day through , and it was night again .
My , how hungry he was !
`` I hope Granny has caught a fine , fat chicken for me , '' thought Reddy , and his mouth watered .
Just then he ran bump into something .
`` Wow ! ''
screamed Reddy Fox , and clapped both hands to his nose .
Something was sticking into it .
It was one of the sharp little spears that Prickly Porky hides in his coat .
Reddy Fox knew then why the old house was so dark .
Prickly Porky was blocking up the doorway .
CHAPTER XXVIII : Prickly Porky Enjoys Himself A boasting tongue , as sure as fate , Will trip its owner soon or late .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine was enjoying himself .
There was no doubt about that .
He was stretched across the doorway of that old house , the very house in which old Granny Fox had been born .
When he had lain down on the doorstep for a nap and sun-bath , he had thought that the old house was still deserted .
Then he had fallen asleep , only to be wakened by Reddy Fox , who bad been asleep in the old house and who could n't get out because Prickly Porky was in the way .
Now Prickly Porky does not love Reddy Fox , and the more Reddy begged and scolded and called him names , the more Prickly Porky chuckled .
It was such a good joke to think that he had trapped Reddy Fox , and he made up his mind that he would keep Reddy in there a long time just to tease him and make him uncomfortable .
You see Prickly Porky remembered how often Reddy Fox played mean tricks on little meadow and forest folks who are smaller and weaker than himself .
`` It will do him good .
It certainly will do him good , '' said Prickly Porky , and rattled the thousand little spears hidden in his long coat , for he knew that the very sound of them would make Reddy Fox shiver with fright .
Suddenly Prickly Porky pricked up his funny little short ears .
He heard the deep voice of Bowser the Hound , and it was coming nearer and nearer .
Prickly Porky chuckled again .
`` I guess Mr. Bowser is going to have a surprise ; I certainly think he is , '' said Prickly Porky as he made all the thousand little spears stand out from his long coat till he looked like a funny great chestnut burr .
Bowser the Hound did have a surprise .
He was hunting Reddy Fox , and he almost ran into Prickly Porky before he saw him .
The very sight of those thousand little spears sent little cold chills chasing each other down Bowser 's backbone clear to the tip of his tail , for he remembered how he had gotten some of them in his lips and mouth once upon a time , and how it had hurt to have them pulled out .
Ever since then he had had the greatest respect for Prickly Porky .
`` Wow ! ''
yelped Bowser the Hound , stopping short .
`` I beg your pardon , Prickly Porky , I beg your pardon , I did n't know you were taking a nap here . ''
All the time Bowser the Hound was backing away as fast as he could .
Then he turned around , put his tail between his legs and actually ran away .
Slowly Prickly Porky unrolled , and his little eyes twinkled as he watched Bowser the Hound run away .
`` Bowser 's very big and strong ; His voice is deep ; his legs are long ; His bark scares some almost to death .
But as for me he wastes his breath ; I just roll up and shake my spears And Bowser is the one who fears . ''
So said Prickly Porky , and laughed aloud .
Just then he heard a light footstep and turned to see who was coming .
It was old Granny Fox .
She had seen Bowser run away , and now she was anxious to find out if Reddy Fox were safe .
`` Good morning , '' said Granny Fox , taking care not to come too near .
`` Good morning , '' replied Prickly Porky , hiding a smile .
`` I 'm very tired and would like to go inside my house ; had you just as soon move ? ''
asked Granny Fox .
`` Oh ! ''
exclaimed Prickly Porky , `` is this your house ?
I thought you lived over on the Green Meadows . ''
`` I did , but I 've moved .
Please let me in , '' replied Granny Fox .
`` Certainly , certainly .
Do n't mind me , Granny Fox .
Step right over me , '' said Prickly Porky , and smiled once more , and at the same time rattled his little spears .
Instead of stepping over him , Granny Fox backed away .
CHAPTER XXIX : The New Home In The Old Pasture Who keeps a watch upon his toes Need never fear he 'll bump his nose .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Now there is nothing like being shut in alone in the dark to make one think .
A voice inside of Reddy began to whisper to him .
`` If you had n't tried to be smart and show off you would n't have brought all this trouble on yourself and Old Granny Fox , '' said the voice .
`` I know it , '' replied Reddy right out loud , forgetting that it was only a small voice inside of him .
`` What do you know ? ''
asked Prickly Porky .
He was still keeping Reddy in and Granny out and he had overheard what Reddy said .
`` It is none of your business ! ''
snapped Reddy .
Reddy could hear Prickly Porky chuckle .
Then Prickly Porky repeated as if to himself in a queer cracked voice the following : `` Rudeness never , never pays , Nor is there gain in saucy ways .
It 's always best to be polite And ne'er give way to ugly spite .
If that 's the way you feel inside You 'd better all such feelings hide ; For he must smile who hopes to win , And he who loses best will grin . ''
Reddy pretended that he had n't heard .
Prickly Porky continued to chuckle for a while and finally Reddy fell asleep .
When he awoke it was to find that Prickly Porky had left and old Granny Fox had brought him something to eat .
Just as soon as Reddy Fox was able to travel he and Granny had moved to the Old Pasture .
The Old Pasture is very different from the Green Meadows or the Green Forest .
Yes , indeed , it is very , very different .
Reddy Fox thought so .
And Reddy did n't like the change , -- not a bit .
All about were great rocks , and around and over them grew bushes and young trees and bull-briars with long ugly thorns , and blackberry and raspberry canes that seemed to have a million little hooked hands , reaching to catch in and tear his red coat and to scratch his face and hands .
There were little open places where wild-eyed young cattle fed on the short grass .
They had made many little paths all crisscross among the bushes , and when you tried to follow one of these paths you never could tell where you were coming out .
No , Reddy Fox did not like the Old Pasture at all .
There was no long , soft green grass to lie down in .
And it was lonesome up there .
He missed the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
There was no one to bully and tease .
And it was such a long , long way from Farmer Brown 's henyard that old Granny Fox would n't even try to bring him a fat hen .
At least , that 's what she told Reddy .
The truth is , wise old Granny Fox knew that the very best thing she could do was to stay away from Farmer Brown 's for a long time .
She knew that Reddy could n't go down there , because he was still too lame and sore to travel such a long way , and she hoped that by the time Reddy was well enough to go , he would have learned better than to do such a foolish thing as to try to show off by stealing a chicken in broad daylight , as he had when he brought all this trouble on them .
Down on the Green Meadows , the home of Granny and Reddy Fox had been on a little knoll , which you know is a little low hill , right where they could sit on their doorstep and look all over the Green Meadows .
It had been very , very beautiful down there .
They had made lovely little paths through the tall green meadow grass , and the buttercups and daisies had grown close up to their very doorstep .
But up here in the Old Pasture Granny Fox had chosen the thickest clump of bushes and young trees she could find , and in the middle was a great pile of rocks .
Way in among these rocks Granny Fox had dug their new house .
It was right down under the rocks .
Even in the middle of the day jolly , round , red Mr. Sun could hardly find it with a few of his long , bright beams .
All the rest of the time it was dark and gloomy there .
No , Reddy Fox did n't like his new home at all , but when he said so old Granny Fox boxed his ears .
`` It 's your own fault that we 've got to live here now , '' said she .
`` It 's the only place where we are safe .
Farmer Brown 's boy never will find this home , and even if he did he could n't dig into it as he did into our old home on the Green Meadows .
Here we are , and here we 've got to stay , all because a foolish little Fox thought himself smarter than anybody else and tried to show off . ''
Reddy hung his head .
`` I do n't care ! ''
he said , which was very , very foolish , because , you know , he did care a very great deal .
And here we will leave wise Old Granny Fox and Reddy , safe , even if they do not like their new home .
You see , Lightfoot the Deer is getting jealous .
He thinks there should be some books about the people of the Green Forest , and that the first one should be about him .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Old_Mother_West_Wind.txt.out
CHAPTER I. MRS. REDWING 'S SPECKLED EGG Old Mother West Wind came down from the Purple Hills in the golden light of the early morning .
Over her shoulders was slung a bag -- a great big bag -- and in the bag were all of Old Mother West Wind 's children , the Merry Little Breezes .
Old Mother West Wind came down from the Purple Hills to the Green Meadows and as she walked she crooned a song : `` Ships upon the ocean wait ; I must hurry , hurry on !
Mills are idle if I 'm late ; I must hurry , hurry on . ''
When she reached the Green Meadows Old Mother West Wind opened her bag , turned it upside down and shook it .
Out tumbled all the Merry Little Breezes and began to spin round and round for very joy , for you see they were to lay in the Green Meadows all day long until Old Mother West Wind should come back at night and take them all to their home behind the Purple Hills .
First they raced over to see Johnny Chuck .
They found Johnny Chuck sitting just outside his door eating his breakfast .
One , for very mischief , snatched right out of Johnny Chuck 's mouth the green leaf of corn he was eating , and ran away with it .
Another playfully pulled his whiskers , while a third rumpled up his hair .
Johnny Chuck pretended to be very cross indeed , but really he did n't mind a bit , for Johnny Chuck loved the Merry Little Breezes and played with them everyday .
And if they teased Johnny Chuck they were good to him , too .
When they saw Farmer Brown coming across the Green Meadows with a gun one of them would dance over to Johnny Chuck and whisper to him that Farmer Brown was coming , and then Johnny Chuck would hide away , deep down in his snug little house under ground , and Farmer Brown would wonder and wonder why it was that he never , never could get near enough to shoot Johnny Chuck .
But he never , never could .
When the Merry Little Breezes left Johnny Chuck they raced across the Green Meadows to the Smiling Pool to say good morning to Grandfather Frog who sat on a big lily pad watching for green flies for breakfast .
`` Chug-arum , '' said Grandfather Frog , which was his way of saying good morning .
Just then along came a fat green fly and up jumped Grandfather Frog .
When he sat down again on the lily pad the fat green fly was nowhere to be seen , but Grandfather Frog looked very well satisfied indeed as he contentedly rubbed his white waistcoat with one hand .
`` What is the news , Grandfather Frog ? ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Mrs. Redwing has a new speckled egg in her nest in the bulrushes , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` We must see it , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , and away they all ran to the swamp where the bulrushes grow .
Now someone else had heard of Mrs. Redwing 's dear little nest in the bulrushes , and he had started out bright and early that morning to try and find it , for he wanted to steal the little speckled eggs just because they were pretty .
It was Tommy Brown , the farmer 's boy .
When the Merry Little Breezes reached the swamp where the bulrushes grow they found poor Mrs. Redwing in great distress .
She was afraid that Tommy Brown would find her dear little nest , for he was very , very near it , and his eyes were very , very sharp .
`` Oh , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , `` we must help Mrs. Redwing save her pretty speckled eggs from bad Tommy Brown ! ''
So one of the Merry Little Breezes whisked Tommy Brown 's old straw hat off his head over into the Green Meadows .
Of course Tommy ran after it .
Just as he stooped to pick it up another little Breeze ran away with it .
Then they took turns , first one little Breeze , then another little Breeze running away with the old straw hat just as Tommy Brown would almost get his hands on it .
Down past the Smiling Pool and across the Laughing Brook they raced and chased the old straw hat , Tommy Brown running after it , very cross , very red in the face , and breathing very hard .
Way across the Green Meadows they ran to the edge of the wood , where they hung the old straw hat in the middle of a thorn tree .
By the time Tommy Brown had it once more on his head he had forgotten all about Mrs. Redwing and her dear little nest .
Besides , he heard the breakfast horn blowing just then , so off he started for home up the Lone Little Path through the wood .
And all the Merry Little Breezes danced away across the Green Meadows to the swamp where the bulrushes grow to see the new speckled egg in the dear little nest where Mrs. Redwing was singing for joy .
And while she sang the Merry Little Breezes danced among the bulrushes , for they knew , and Mrs. Redwing knew , that some day out of that pretty new speckled egg would come a wee baby Redwing .
CHAPTER II WHY GRANDFATHER FROG HAS NO TAIL Old Mother West Wind had gone to her day 's work , leaving all the Merry Little Breezes to play in the Green Meadows .
They had played tag and run races with the Bees and played hide and seek with the Sun Beams , and now they had gathered around the Smiling Pool where on a green lily pad sat Grandfather Frog .
Grandfather Frog was old , very old , indeed , and very , very wise .
He wore a green coat and his voice was very deep .
When Grandfather Frog spoke everybody listened very respectfully .
Even Billy Mink treated Grandfather Frog with respect , for Billy Mink 's father and his father 's father could not remember when Grandfather Frog had not sat on the lily pad watching for green flies .
Down in the Smiling Pool were some of Grandfather Frog 's great-great-great-great-great grandchildren .
You would n't have known that they were his grandchildren unless some one told you .
They did n't look the least bit like Grandfather Frog .
They were round and fat and had long tails and perhaps this is why they were called Pollywogs .
`` Oh Grandfather Frog , tell us why you do n't have a tail as you did when you were young , '' begged one of the Merry Little Breezes .
Grandfather Frog snapped up a foolish green fly and settled himself on his big lily pad , while all the Merry Little Breezes gathered round to listen .
`` Once on a time , '' began Grandfather Frog , `` the Frogs ruled the world , which was mostly water .
There was very little dry land -- oh , very little indeed !
There were no boys to throw stones and no hungry Mink to gobble up foolish Frog-babies who were taking a sun bath ! ''
Billy Mink , who had joined the Merry Little Breezes and was listening , squirmed uneasily and looked away guiltily .
`` In those days all the Frogs had tails , long handsome tails of which they were very , very proud indeed , '' continued Grandfather Frog .
`` The King of all the Frogs was twice as big as any other Frog , and his tail was three times as long .
He was very proud , oh , very proud indeed of his long tail .
He used to sit and admire it until he thought that there never had been and never could be another such tail .
He used to wave it back and forth in the water , and every time he waved it all the other Frogs would cry ` Ah ! '
and ` Oh ! '
Every day the King grew more vain .
He did nothing at all but eat and sleep and admire his tail .
`` Now all the other Frogs did just as the King did , so pretty soon none of the Frogs were doing anything but sitting about eating , sleeping and admiring their own tails and the King 's .
`` Now you all know that people who do nothing worth while in this world are of no use and there is little room for them .
So when Mother Nature saw how useless had become the Frog tribe she called the King Frog before her and she said : '' ` Because you can think of nothing but your beautiful tail it shall be taken away from you .
Because you do nothing but eat and sleep your mouth shall become wide like a door , and your eyes shall start forth from your head .
You shall become bow-legged and ugly to look at , and all the world shall laugh at you . '
`` The King Frog looked at his beautiful tail and already it seemed to have grown shorter .
He looked again and it was shorter still .
Every time he looked his tail had grown shorter and smaller .
By and by when he looked there was nothing left but a little stub which he could n't even wriggle .
Then even that disappeared , his eyes popped out of his head and his mouth grew bigger and bigger . ''
Old Grandfather Frog stopped and looked sadly at a foolish green fly coming his way .
`` Chug-arum , '' said Grandfather Frog , opening his mouth very wide and hopping up in the air .
When he sat down again on his big lily pad the green fly was nowhere to be seen .
Grandfather Frog smacked his lips and continued : `` And from that day to this every Frog has started life with a big tail , and as he has grown bigger and bigger his tail has grown smaller and smaller , until finally it disappears , and then he remembers how foolish and useless it is to be vain of what nature has given us .
And that is how I came to lose my tail , '' finished Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you , '' shouted all the Merry Little Breezes .
`` We wo n't forget . ''
Then they ran a race to see who could reach Johnny Chuck 's home first and tell him that Farmer Brown was coming down on the Green Meadows with a gun .
CHAPTER III HOW REDDY FOX WAS SURPRISED Johnny Chuck and Reddy Fox lived very near together on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck was fat and roly-poly .
Reddy Fox was slim and wore a bright red coat .
Reddy Fox used to like to frighten Johnny Chuck by suddenly popping out from behind a tree and making believe that he was going to eat Johnny Chuck all up .
One bright summer day Johnny Chuck was out looking for a good breakfast of nice tender clover .
He had wandered quite a long way from his snug little house in the long meadow grass , although his mother had told him never to go out of sight of the door .
But Johnny was like some little boys I know , and forgot all he had been told .
He walked and walked and walked .
Every few minutes Johnny Chuck saw something farther on that looked like a patch of nice fresh clover .
And every time when he reached it Johnny Chuck found that he had made a mistake .
So Johnny Chuck walked and walked and walked .
Old Mother West Wind , coming across the Green Meadows , saw Johnny Chuck and asked him where he was going .
Johnny Chuck pretended not to hear and just walked faster .
One of the Merry Little Breezes danced along in front of him .
`` Look out , Johnny Chuck , you will get lost , '' cried the Merry Little Breeze then pulled Johnny 's whiskers and ran away .
Higher and higher up in the sky climbed round , red Mr. Sun .
Every time Johnny Chuck looked up at him Mr. Sun winked .
`` So long as I can see great round , red Mr. Sun and he winks at me I ca n't be lost , '' thought Johnny Chuck , and trotted on looking for clover .
By and by Johnny Chuck really did find some clover -- just the sweetest clover that grew in the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck ate and ate and ate and then what do you think he did ?
Why , he curled right up in the nice sweet clover and went fast asleep .
Great round , red Mr. Sun kept climbing higher and higher up in the sky , then by and by he began to go down on the other side , and long shadows began to creep out across the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck did n't know anything about them : he was fast asleep .
By and by one of the Merry Little Breezes found Johnny Chuck all curled up in a funny round ball .
`` Wake up Johnny Chuck !
Wake up ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breeze .
Johnny Chuck opened his eyes .
Then he sat up and rubbed them .
For just a few , few minutes he could n't remember where he was at all .
By and by he sat up very straight to look over the grass and see where he was .
But he was so far from home that he did n't see a single thing that looked at all like the things he was used to .
The trees were all different .
The bushes were all different .
Everything was different .
Johnny Chuck was lost .
Now , when Johnny sat up , Reddy Fox happened to be looking over the Green Meadows and he saw Johnny 's head where it popped above the grass .
`` Aha ! ''
said Reddy Fox , `` I 'll scare Johnny Chuck so he 'll wish he 'd never put his nose out of his house . ''
Then Reddy dropped down behind the long grass and crept softly , oh , ever so softly , through the paths of his own , until he was right behind Johnny Chuck .
Johnny Chuck had been so intent looking for home that he did n't see anything else .
Reddy Fox stole right up behind Johnny and pulled Johnny 's little short tail hard .
How it did frighten Johnny Chuck !
He jumped right straight up in the air and when he came down he was the maddest little woodchuck that ever lived in the Green Meadows .
Reddy Fox had thought that Johnny would run , and then Reddy meant to run after him and pull his tail and tease him all the way home .
Now , Reddy Fox got as big a surprise as Johnny had had when Reddy pulled his tail .
Johnny did n't stop to think that Reddy Fox was twice as big as he , but with his eyes snapping , and chattering as only a little Chuck can chatter , with every little hair on his little body standing right up on end , so that he seemed twice as big as he really was , he started for Reddy Fox .
It surprised Reddy Fox so that he did n't know what to do , and he simply ran .
Johnny Chuck ran after him , nipping Reddy 's heels every minute or two .
Peter Rabbit just happened to be down that way .
He was sitting up very straight looking to see what mischief he could get into when he caught sight of Reddy Fox running as hard as ever he could .
`` It must be that Bowser , the hound , is after Reddy Fox , '' said Peter Rabbit to himself .
`` I must watch out that he does n't find me . ''
Just then he caught sight of Johnny Chuck with every little hair standing up on end and running after Reddy Fox as fast as his short legs could go .
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit .
`` Reddy Fox afraid of Johnny Chuck !
Ho !
ho !
Ho ! ''
Then Peter Rabbit scampered away to find Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Happy Jack Squirrel to tell them all about how Reddy Fox had run away from Johnny Chuck , for you see they were all a little afraid of Reddy Fox .
Straight home ran Reddy Fox as fast as he could go , and going home he passed the house of Johnny Chuck .
Now Johnny could n't run so fast as Reddy Fox and he was puffing and blowing as only a fat little woodchuck can puff and blow when he has to run hard .
Moreover , he had lost his ill temper now and he thought it was the best joke ever to think that he had actually frightened Reddy Fox .
When he came to his own house he stopped and sat on his hind legs once more .
Then he shrilled out after Reddy Fox : `` Reddy Fox is a ` fraid cat , ` fraid-cat !
Reddy Fox is a ` fraid-cat ! ''
And all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind , who were playing on the Green Meadows shouted : `` Reddy Fox is a ` fraid-cat , ` fraid-cat ! ''
And this is the way that Reddy Fox was surprised and that Johnny Chuck found his way home .
CHAPTER IV WHY JIMMY SKUNK WEARS STRIPES Jimmy Skunk , as everybody knows , wears a striped suit , a suit of black and white .
There was a time , long , long ago , when all the Skunk family wore black .
Very handsome their coats were , too , a beautiful , glossy black .
They were very , very proud of them and took the greatest care of them , brushing them carefully ever so many times a day .
There was a Jimmy Skunk then , just as there is now , and he was head of all the Skunk family .
Now this Jimmy Skunk was very proud and thought himself very much of a gentleman .
He was very independent and cared for no one .
Like a great many other independent people , he did not always consider the rights of others .
Indeed , it was hinted in the wood and on the Green Meadows that not all of Jimmy Skunk 's doings would bear the light of day .
It was openly said that he was altogether too fond of prowling about at night , but no one could prove that he was responsible for mischief done in the night , for no one saw him .
You see his coat was so black that in the darkness of the night it was not visible at all .
Now about this time of which I am telling you Mrs. Ruffed Grouse made a nest at the foot of the Great Pine and in it she laid fifteen beautiful buff eggs .
Mrs. Grouse was very happy , very happy indeed , and all the little meadow folks who knew of her happiness were happy too , for they all loved shy , demure , little Mrs. Grouse .
Every morning when Peter Rabbit trotted down the Lone Little Path through the wood past the Great Pine he would stop for a few minutes to chat with Mrs. Grouse .
Happy Jack Squirrel would bring her the news every afternoon .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind would run up a dozen times a day to see how she was getting along .
One morning Peter Rabbit , coming down the Lone Little Path for his usual morning call , found a terrible state of affairs .
Poor little Mrs. Grouse was heart-broken .
All about the foot of the Great Pine lay the empty shells of her beautiful eggs .
They had been broken and scattered this way and that .
`` How did it happen ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` I do n't know , '' sobbed poor little Mrs. Grouse .
`` In the night when I was fast asleep something pounced upon me .
I managed to get away and fly up in the top of the Great Pine .
In the morning I found all my eggs broken , just as you see them here . ''
Peter Rabbit looked the ground over very carefully .
He hunted around behind the Great Pine , he looked under the bushes , he studied the ground with a very wise air .
Then he hopped off down the Lone Little Path to the Green Meadows .
He stopped at the house of Johnny Chuck .
`` What makes your eyes so big and round ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
Peter Rabbit came very close so as to whisper in Johnny Chuck 's ear , and told him all that he had seen .
Together they went to Jimmy Skunk 's house .
Jimmy Skunk was in bed .
He was very sleepy and very cross when he came to the door .
Peter Rabbit told him what he had seen .
`` Too bad !
Too bad ! ''
said Jimmy Skunk , and yawned sleepily .
`` Wo n't you join us in trying to find out who did it ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
Jimmy Skunk said he would be delighted to come but that he had some other business that morning and that he would join them in the afternoon .
Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck went on .
Pretty soon they met the Merry Little Breezes and told them the dreadful story .
`` What shall we do ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` We 'll hurry over and tell Old Dame Nature , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , `` and ask her what to do . ''
So away flew the Merry Little Breezes to Old Dame Nature and told her all the dreadful story .
Old Dame Nature listened very attentively .
Then she sent the Merry Little Breezes to all the little meadow folks to tell every one to be at the Great Pine that afternoon .
Now whatever Old Dame Nature commanded all the meadow folks were obliged to do .
They did not dare to disobey her .
Promptly at four o'clock that afternoon all the meadow folks were gathered around the foot of the Great Pine .
Broken-hearted little Mrs. Ruffed Grouse sat beside her empty nest , with all the broken shells about her .
Reddy Fox , Peter Rabbit , Johnny Chuck , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Hooty the Owl , Bobby Coon , Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , Grandfather Frog , Mr. Toad , Spotty the Turtle , the Merry Little Breezes , all were there .
Last of all came Jimmy Skunk .
Very handsome he looked in his shining black coat and very sorry he appeared that such a dreadful thing should have happened .
He told Mrs. Grouse how badly he felt , and he loudly demanded that the culprit should be found out and severely punished .
Old Dame Nature has the most smiling face in the world , but this time it was very , very grave indeed .
First she asked little Mrs. Grouse to tell her story all over again that all might hear .
Then each in turn was asked to tell where he had been the night before .
Johnny Chuck , Happy Jack Squirrel , Striped Chipmunk , Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow had gone to bed when Mr. Sun went down behind the Purple Hills .
Jerry Muskrat , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle had not left the Smiling Pool .
Bobby Coon had been down in Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
Hooty the Owl had been hunting in the lower end of the Green Meadows .
Peter Rabbit had been down in the berry patch .
Mr. Toad had been under the piece of bark which he called a house .
Old Dame Nature called on Jimmy Skunk last of all .
Jimmy protested that he had been very , very tired and had gone to bed very early indeed and had slept the whole night through .
Then Old Dame Nature asked Peter Rabbit what he had found among the egg shells that morning .
Peter Rabbit hopped out and laid three long black hairs before Old Dame Nature .
`` These , '' said Peter Rabbit `` are what I found among the egg shells . ''
Then Old Dame Nature called Johnny Chuck .
`` Tell us , Johnny Chuck , '' said she , `` what you saw when you called at Jimmy Skunk 's house this morning . ''
`` I saw Jimmy Skunk , '' said Johnny Chuck , `` and Jimmy seemed very , very sleepy .
It seemed to me that his whiskers were yellow . ''
`` That will do , '' said Old Dame Nature , and then she called Old Mother West Wind .
`` What time did you come down on the Green Meadows this morning ? ''
`` Just at the break of day , '' said Old Mother West Wind , `` as Mr. Sun was coming up from behind the Purple Hills . ''
`` And whom did you see so early in the morning ? ''
asked Old Dame Nature .
`` I saw Bobby Coon going home from old Farmer Brown 's cornfield , '' said Old Mother West Wind .
`` I saw Hooty the Owl coming back from the lower end of the Green Meadows .
I saw Peter Rabbit down in the berry patch .
Last of all I saw something like a black shadow coming down the Lone Little Path toward the house of Jimmy Skunk . ''
Every one was looking very hard at Jimmy Skunk .
Jimmy began to look very unhappy and very uneasy .
`` Who wears a black coat ? ''
asked Dame Nature .
`` Jimmy Skunk ! ''
shouted all the little meadow folks .
`` What MIGHT make whiskers yellow ? ''
asked Old Dame Nature .
No one seemed to know at first .
Then Peter Rabbit spoke up .
`` It MIGHT be the yolk of an egg , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Who are likely to be sleepy on a bright sunny morning ? ''
asked Old Dame Nature .
`` People who have been out all night , '' said Johnny Chuck , who himself always goes to bed with the sun .
`` Jimmy Skunk , '' said Old Dame Nature , and her voice was very stern , very stern indeed , and her face was very grave .
`` Jimmy Skunk , I accuse you of having broken and eaten the eggs of Mrs. Grouse .
What have you to say for yourself ? ''
Jimmy Skunk hung his head .
He had n't a word to say .
He just wanted to sneak away by himself .
`` Jimmy Skunk , '' said Old Dame Nature , `` because your handsome black coat of which you are so proud has made it possible for you to move about in the night without being seen , and because we can no longer trust you upon your honor , henceforth you and your descendants shall wear a striped coat , which is the sign that you can not be trusted .
Your coat hereafter shall be black and white , that when you move about in the night you will always be visible . ''
And this is why that to this day Jimmy Skunk wears a striped suit of black and white .
CHAPTER V THE WILFUL LITTLE BREEZE Old Mother West Wind was tired -- tired and just a wee bit cross -- cross because she was tired .
She had had a very busy day .
Ever since early morning she had been puffing out the white sales of the ships on the big ocean so that they could go faster ; she had kept all the big and little wind mills whirling and whirling to pump water for thirsty folks and grind corn for hungry folks ; she had blown away all the smoke from tall chimneys and engines and steamboats .
Yes , indeed , Old Mother West Wind had been very , very busy .
Now she was coming across the Green Meadows on her way to her home behind the Purple Hills , and as she came she opened the big bag she carried and called to her children , the Merry Little Breezes , who had been playing hard on the Green Meadows all the long day .
One by one they crept into the big bag , for they were tired , too , and ready to go to their home behind the Purple Hills .
Pretty soon all were in the bag but one , a willful little Breeze , who was not quite ready to go home ; he wanted to play just a little longer .
He danced ahead of Old Mother West Wind .
He kissed the sleepy daisies .
He shook the nodding buttercups .
He set all the little poplar leaves a dancing , too , and he would n't come into the big bag .
So Old Mother West Wind closed the big bag and slung it over her shoulder .
Then she started on towards her home behind the Purple Hills .
When she had gone , the willful little Breeze left behind suddenly felt very lonely -- very lonely indeed !
The sleepy daisies did n't want to play .
The nodding buttercups were cross .
Great round bright Mr. Sun , who had been shining and shining all day long , went to bed and put on his night cap of golden clouds .
Black shadows came creeping , creeping out into the Green Meadows .
The willful little Breeze began to wish that he was safe in Old Mother West Wind 's big bag with all the other Merry Little Breezes .
So he started across the Green Meadows to find the Purple Hills .
But all the hills were black now and he could not tell which he should look behind to find his home with Old Mother West Wind and the Merry Little Breezes .
How he did wish that he had minded Old Mother West Wind .
By and by he curled up under a bayberry bush and tried to go to sleep , but he was lonely , oh , so lonely !
And he could n't go to sleep .
Old Mother Moon came up and flooded all the Green Meadows with light , but it was n't like the bright light of jolly round Mr. Sun , for it was cold and white and it made many black shadows .
Pretty soon the willful little Breeze heard Hooty the Owl out hunting for a meadow mouse for his dinner .
Then down the Lone Little Path which ran close to the bayberry bush trotted Reddy Fox .
He was trotting very softly and every minute or so he turned his head and looked behind him to see if he was followed .
It was plain to see that Reddy Fox was bent on mischief .
When he reached the bayberry bush Reddy Fox sat down and barked twice .
Hooty the Owl answered him at once and flew over to join him .
They did n't see the willful little Breeze curled up under the bayberry bush , so intent were these two rogues in plotting mischief .
They were planning to steal down across the Green Meadows to the edge of the Brown Pasture where Mr. Bob White and pretty Mrs. Bob White and a dozen little Bob Whites had their home .
`` When they run along the ground I 'll catch 'em , and when they fly up in the air you 'll catch 'em , and we 'll gobble 'em all up , '' said Reddy Fox to Hooty the Owl .
Then he licked his chops and Hooty the Owl snapped his bill , just as if they were tasting tender little Bob Whites that very minute .
It made the willful little Breeze shiver to see them .
Pretty soon they started on towards the Brown Pasture .
When they were out of sight the willful little Breeze jumped up and shook himself .
Then away he sped across the Green Meadows to the Brown Pasture .
And because he could go faster and because he went a shorter way he got there first .
He had to hunt and hunt to find Mrs. and Mr. Bob White and all the little Bob Whites , but finally he did find them , all with their heads tucked under their wings fast asleep .
The willful little Breeze shook Mr. Bob White very gently .
In an instant he was wide awake .
`` Sh-h-h , '' said the willful little Breeze .
`` Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl are coming to the Brown Pasture to gobble up you and Mrs. Bob White and all the little Bob Whites . ''
`` Thank you , little Breeze , '' said Mr. Bob White , `` I think I 'll move my family . ''
Then he woke Mrs. Bob White and all the little Bob Whites .
With Mr. Bob White in the lead away they all flew to the far side of the Brown Pasture where they were soon safely hidden under a juniper tree .
The willful little Breeze saw them safely there , and when they were nicely hidden hurried back to the place where the Bob Whites had been sleeping .
Reddy Fox was stealing up through the grass very , very softly .
Hooty the Owl was flying as silently as a shadow .
When Reddy Fox thought he was near enough he drew himself together , made a quick spring and landed right in Mr. Bob White 's empty bed .
Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl looked so surprised and foolish when they found the Bob Whites were not there that the willful little Breeze nearly laughed out loud .
Then Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl hunted here and hunted there , all over the Brown Pasture , but they could n't find the Bob Whites .
And the willful little Breeze went back to the juniper tree and curled himself beside Mr. Bob White to sleep , for he was lonely no longer .
CHAPTER VI REDDY FOX GOES FISHING One morning when Mr. Sun was very , very bright and it was very , very warm , down on the Green Meadows Reddy Fox came hopping and skipping down the Lone Little Path that leads to the Laughing Brook .
Hoppity , skip , skippity hop !
Reddy felt very much pleased with himself that sunny morning .
Pretty soon he saw Johnny Chuck sitting up very straight close by the little house where he lives .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
called Reddy fox .
Johnny Chuck pretended not to hear .
His mother had told him not to play with Reddy Fox , for Reddy Fox was a bad boy .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
called Reddy again .
This time Johnny turned and looked .
He could see Reddy Fox turning somersaults and chasing his tail and rolling over and over in the little path .
`` Come on ! ''
said Reddy Fox .
`` Let 's go fishing ! ''
`` Ca n't , '' said Johnny Chuck , because you know , his mother had told him not to play with Reddy Fox .
`` I 'll show you how to catch a fish , '' said Reddy Fox , and tried to jump over his own shadow .
`` Ca n't , '' said good little Johnny Chuck again , and turned away so that he could n't see Reddy Fox chasing Butterflies and playing catch with Field Mice children .
So Reddy Fox went down to the Laughing Brook all alone .
The Brook was laughing and singing on its way to join the Big River .
The sky was blue and the sun was bright .
Reddy Fox jumped on the Big Rock in the middle of the Laughing Brook and peeped over the other side .
What do you think he saw ?
Why , right down below in a Dear Little Pool were Mr. And Mrs. Trout and all the little Trouts .
Reddy Fox wanted some of those little Trouts to take home for his dinner , but he did n't know how to catch them .
He lay flat down on the Big Rock and reached way down into the Dear Little Pool , but all the little Trouts laughed at Reddy Fox and not one came within reach .
Then Mr. Trout swam up so quickly that Reddy Fox did n't see him coming and bit Reddy 's little black paw hard .
`` Ouch ! ''
cried Reddy Fox , pulling his little black paw out of the water .
And all the little Trouts laughed at Reddy Fox .
Just then along came Billy Mink .
`` Hello , Reddy Fox ! ''
said Billy Mink .
`` What are you doing here ? ''
`` I 'm trying to catch a fish , '' said Reddy Fox .
`` Pooh !
That 's easy ! ''
said Billy Mink .
`` I 'll show you how . ''
So Billy Mink lay down on the Big Rock side of Reddy Fox and peeped over into the Dear Little Pool where all the little Trouts were laughing at Reddy Fox and having such a good time .
But Billy Mink took care , such very great care , that Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout should not see him peeping over into the Dear Little Pool .
When Billy Mink saw all those little Trouts playing in the Dear Little Pool he laughed .
`` You count three , Reddy Fox , '' said he , `` and I 'll show you how to catch a fish . ''
`` One ! ''
said Reddy Fox , `` Two !
Three ! ''
Splash !
Billy Mink had dived head first into the Dear Little Pool .
He spattered water way up onto Reddy Fox , and he frightened old Mr. Frog so that he fell over backwards off the lily pad where he was taking a morning nap right into the water .
In a minute Billy Mink climbed out on the other side of the Dear Little Pool and sure enough , he had caught one of the little Trouts .
`` Give it to me , '' cried Reddy Fox .
`` Catch one yourself , '' said Billy Mink .
`` Old Grandpa Mink wants a fish for his dinner , so I am going to take this home .
You 're afraid , Reddy Fox !
` Fraid-cat !
Fraid-cat ! ''
Billy Mink shook the water off of his little brown coat , picked up the little Trout and ran off home .
Reddy Fox lay down again on the Big Rock and peeped into the Dear Little Pool .
Not a single Trout could he see .
They were all hiding safely with Mr. and Mrs. Trout .
Reddy Fox watched and watched .
The sun was warm , the Laughing Brook was singing a lullaby and -- what do you think ?
Why , Reddy Fox went fast asleep on the edge of the great Big Rock .
By and by Reddy Fox began to dream .
He dreamed that he had a nice little brown coat that was waterproof , just like the little brown coat that Billy Mink wore .
Yes , and he dreamed that he had learned to swim and to catch fish just as Billy Mink did .
He dreamed that the Dear Little Pool was full of little Trouts and that he was just going to catch one when -- splash !
Reddy Fox had rolled right off of the Big Rock into the Dear Little Pool .
The water went into the eyes of Reddy Fox , and it went up his nose and he swallowed so much that he felt as if he never , never would want another drink of water .
And his beautiful red coat , which old Mother Fox had told him to be very , very careful of because he could n't have another for a whole year , was oh so wet !
And his pants were wet and his beautiful bushy tail , of which he was so proud , was so full of water that he could n't hold it up , but had to drag it up the bank after him as he crawled out of the Dear Little Pool .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laughed Mr. Kingfisher , sitting on a tree .
`` Ho !
Ho !
Ho ! ''
laughed old Mr. Frog , who had climbed back on his lily pad .
`` He !
He !
He ! ''
laughed all the little Trouts and Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout , swimming round and round in the Dear Little Pool .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Ho !
Ho !
Ho !
He !
He !
He ! ''
laughed Billy Mink , who had come back to the Big Rock just in time to see Reddy Fox tumble in .
Reddy Fox did n't say a word , he was so ashamed .
He just crept up the Lone Little Path to his home , dragging his tail , all wet and muddy , behind him , and dripping water all the way .
Johnny Chuck was still sitting by his door as his mother had told him to .
Reddy Fox tried to go past without being seen , but Johnny Chuck 's bright little eyes saw him .
`` Where are your fish , Reddy Fox ? ''
called Johnny Chuck .
`` Why do n't you turn somersaults , and jump over your shadow and chase Butterflies and play with the little Field Mice , Reddy Fox ? ''
called Johnny Chuck .
But Reddy Fox just walked faster .
When he got almost home he saw old Mother Fox sitting in the doorway with a great big switch across her lap , for Mother Fox had told Reddy Fox not to go near the Laughing Brook .
And this is all I am going to tell you about how Reddy Fox went fishing .
CHAPTER VII JIMMY SKUNK LOOKS FOR BEETLES Jimmy Skunk opened his eyes very early one morning and peeped out of his snug little house on the hill .
Big , round Mr. Sun , with a very red , smiling face , had just begun to climb up into the sky .
Old Mother West Wind was just starting down to the Green Meadows with her big bag over her shoulder .
In that bag Jimmy Skunk knew she carried all her children , the Merry Little Breezes , whom she was taking down to the Green Meadows to play and frolic all day .
`` Good morning , Mother West Wind , '' said Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` Did you see any beetles as you came down the hill ? ''
Old Mother West Wind said , no , she had n't seen any beetles as she came down the hill .
`` Thank you , '' said Jimmy Skunk politely .
`` I guess I 'll have to go look myself , for I 'm very , very hungry . ''
So Jimmy Skunk brushed his handsome black and white coat , and washed his face and hands , and started out to try to find some beetles for his breakfast .
First he went down to the Green Meadows and stopped at Johnny Chuck 's house .
But Johnny Chuck was still in bed and fast asleep .
Then Jimmy Skunk went over to see if Reddy Fox would go with him to help find some beetles for his breakfast .
But Reddy Fox had been out very , very late the night before and was still in bed fast asleep , too .
So Jimmy Skunk set out all alone along the Crooked Little Path up the hill to find some beetles for his breakfast .
He walked very slowly , for Jimmy Skunk never hurries .
He stopped and peeped under every old log to see if there were any beetles .
By and by he came to a big piece of bark beside the Crooked Little Path .
Jimmy Skunk took hold of the piece of bark with his two little black paws and pulled and pulled .
All of a sudden , the big piece of bark turned over so quickly that Jimmy Skunk fell flat on his back .
When Jimmy Skunk had rolled over onto his feet again , there sat old Mr. Toad right in the path , and old Mr. Toad was very , very cross indeed .
He swelled and he puffed and he puffed and he swelled , till he was twice as big as Jimmy Skunk had ever seen him before .
`` Good morning , Mr. Toad , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Have you seen any beetles ? ''
But Mr. Toad blinked his great round goggly eyes and he said : `` What do you mean , Jimmy Skunk , by pulling the roof off my house ? ''
`` Is that the roof of your house ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk politely .
`` I wo n't do it again . ''
Then Jimmy Skunk stepped right over old Mr. Toad , and went on up the Crooked Little Path to look for some beetles .
By and by he came to an old stump of a tree which was hollow and had the nicest little round hole in one side .
Jimmy Skunk took hold of one edge with his two little black paws and pulled and pulled .
All of a sudden the whole side of the old stump tore open and Jimmy Skunk fell flat on his back .
When Jimmy Skunk had rolled over onto his feet again there was Striped Chipmunk hopping up and down right in the middle of the path , he was so angry .
`` Good morning , Striped Chipmunk , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Have you seen any beetles ? ''
But Striped Chipmunk hopped faster than ever and he said : `` What do you mean , Jimmy Skunk , by pulling the side off my house ? ''
`` Is that the side of your house ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` I wo n't do it again . ''
Then Jimmy Skunk stepped right over Striped Chipmunk , and went on up the Crooked Little Path to look for some beetles .
Pretty soon he met Peter Rabbit hopping along down the Crooked Little Path .
`` Good morning , Jimmy Skunk , where are you going so early in the morning ? ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` Good morning , Peter Rabbit .
Have you seen any beetles ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` No , I have n't seen any beetles , but I 'll help you find some , '' said Peter Rabbit .
So he turned about and hopped ahead of Jimmy Skunk up the Crooked Little Path .
Now because Peter Rabbit 's legs are long and he is always in a hurry , he got to the top of the hill first .
When Jimmy Skunk reached the end of the Crooked Little Path on the top of the hill he found Peter Rabbit sitting up very straight and looking and looking very hard at a great flat stone .
`` What are you looking at , Peter Rabbit ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk .
`` Sh-h-h ! ''
said Peter Rabbit , `` I think there are some beetles under that great flat stone where that little black string is sticking out .
Now when I count three you grab that string and pull hard perhaps you 'll find a beetle at the other end . ''
So Jimmy Skunk got ready and Peter Rabbit began to count .
`` One ! ''
said Peter .
`` Two ! ''
said Peter .
`` Three ! ''
Jimmy Skunk grabbed the black string and pulled as hard as ever he could and out came -- Mr. Black Snake !
The string Jimmy Skunk had pulled was Mr. Black Snake 's tail , and Mr. Black Snake was very , very angry indeed .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laughed Peter Rabbit .
`` What do you mean , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Mr. Black Snake , `` by pulling my tail ? ''
`` Was that your tail ? ''
said Jimmy Skunk , politely .
`` I wo n't do it again .
Have you seen any beetles ? ''
But Mr. Black Snake had n't seen any beetles , and he was so cross that Jimmy Skunk went on over the hill to look for some beetles .
Peter Rabbit was still laughing and laughing and laughing .
And the more he laughed the angrier grew Mr. Black Snake , till finally he started after Peter Rabbit to teach him a lesson .
Then Peter Rabbit stopped laughing , for Mr. Black Snake can run very fast .
Away went Peter Rabbit down the Crooked Little Path as fast as he could go , and away went Mr. Black Snake after him .
But Jimmy Skunk did n't even look once to see if Mr. Black Snake had caught Peter Rabbit to teach him a lesson , for Jimmy Skunk had found some beetles and was eating his breakfast .
CHAPTER VIII BILLY MINK 'S SWIMMING PARTY Billy Mink was coming down the bank of the Laughing Brook .
Billy Mink was feeling very good indeed .
He had had a good breakfast , the sun was warm , little white cloud ships were sailing across the blue sky and their shadows were sailing across the Green Meadows , the birds were singing and the bees were humming .
Billy Mink felt like singing too , but Billy Mink 's voice was not meant for singing .
By and by Billy Mink came to the Smiling Pool .
Here the Laughing Brook stopped and rested on its way to join the Big River .
It stopped its noisy laughing and singing and just lay smiling and smiling in the warm sunshine .
The little flowers on the bank leaned over and nodded to it .
The beech tree , which was very old , sometimes dropped a leaf into it .
The cat-tails kept their feet cool in the edge of it .
Billy Mink jumped out on the Big Rock and looked down into the Smiling Pool .
Over on a green lily pad he saw old Grandfather Frog .
`` Hello , Grandfather Frog , '' said Billy Mink .
`` Hello , Billy Mink , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` What mischief are you up to this fine sunny morning ? ''
Just then Billy Mink saw a little brown head swimming along one edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
shouted Billy Mink .
`` Hello your own self , Billy Mink , '' shouted Jerry Muskrat , `` Come in and have a swim ; the water 's fine ! ''
`` Good , '' said Billy Mink .
`` We 'll have a swimming party . ''
So Billy Mink called all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind , who were playing with the flowers on the bank , and sent them to find Little Joe Otter and invite him to come to the swimming party .
Pretty soon back came the Little Breezes and with them came Little Joe Otter .
`` Hello , Billy Mink , '' said Little Joe Otter .
`` Here I am ! ''
`` Hello , Little Joe Otter , '' said Billy Mink .
`` Come up here on the Big Rock and see who can dive the deepest into the Smiling Pool . ''
So Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat climbed up on the Big Rock side of Billy Mink and they all stood side by side in their little brown bathing suits looking down into the Smiling Pool .
`` Now when I count three we 'll all dive into the Smiling Pool together and see who can dive the deepest .
One ! ''
said Billy Mink .
`` Two ! ''
said Billy Mink .
`` Three ! ''
said Billy Mink .
And when he said `` Three ! ''
in they all went head first .
My such a splash as they did make !
They upset old Grandfather Frog so that he fell off his lily pad .
They frightened Mr. and Mrs. Trout so that they jumped right out of the water .
Tiny Tadpole had such a scare that he hid way , way down in the mud with only the tip of his funny little nose sticking out .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said old Grandfather Frog , climbing out of his lily pad .
`` If I was n't so old I would show you how to dive . ''
`` Come on , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cried Billy Mink .
`` Show us how to dive . ''
And what do you think ?
Why , old Grandfather Frog actually got so excited that he climbed up on the Big Rock to show them how to dive .
Splash !
Went Grandfather Frog into the Smiling Pool .
Splash !
Went Billy Mink right behind him .
Splash !
Splash !
Went Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat , right at Billy Mink 's heels .
`` Hurrah ! ''
shouted Mr. Kingfisher , sitting on a branch of the old beech tree .
And then just to show them that he could dive , too , splash !
He went into the Smiling Pool .
Such a noise as they did make !
All the Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind danced for joy on the bank .
Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay flew over to see what was going on .
`` Now let 's see who can swim the farthest under water , '' cried Billy Mink .
So they all stood side by side on one edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Go ! ''
shouted Mr. Kingfisher , and in they all plunged .
Little ripples ran across the Smiling Pool and then the water became as smooth and smiling as if nothing had gone into it with a plunge .
Now old Grandfather Frog began to realize that he was n't as young as he used to be , and he could n't swim as fast as the others anyway .
He began to get short of breath , so he swam up to the top and stuck just the tip of his nose out to get some more air .
Sammy Jay 's sharp eyes saw him .
`` There 's Grandfather Frog ! ''
he shouted .
So then Grandfather Frog popped his head out and swam over to his green lily pad to rest .
Way over beyond the Big Rock little bubbles in three long rows kept coming up to the top of the Smiling Pool .
They showed just where Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat were swimming way down out of sight .
It was the air from their lungs making the bubbles .
Straight across the Smiling Pool went the lines of little bubbles and then way out on the farther side two little heads bobbed out of water close together .
They were Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
A moment later Jerry Muskrat bobbed up beside them .
You see , they had swum clear across the Smiling Pool and of course they could swim no farther .
So Billy Mink 's swimming party was a great success .
CHAPTER IX PETER RABBIT PLAYS A JOKE One morning when big round Mr. Sun was climbing up in the sky and Old Mother West Wind had sent all her Merry Little Breezes to play in the Green Meadows , Johnny Chuck started out for a walk .
First he sat up very straight and looked and looked all around to see if Reddy Fox was anywhere about , for you know Reddy Fox liked to tease Johnny Chuck .
But Reddy Fox was nowhere to be seen , so Johnny Chuck trotted down the Lone Little Path to the wood .
Mr. Sun was shining as brightly as ever he could and Johnny Chuck , who was very , very fat , grew very , very warm .
By and by he sat down on the end of a log under a big tree to rest .
Thump !
Something hit Johnny Chuck right on the top of his round little head .
It made Johnny Chuck jump .
`` Hello , Johnny Chuck ! ''
said a voice that seemed to come right out of the sky .
Johnny Chuck tipped his head way , way back and looked up .
He was just in time to see Happy Jack Squirrel drop a nut .
Down it came and hit Johnny Chuck right on the tip of his funny , black , little nose .
`` Oh ! ''
said Johnny Chuck , and tumbled right over back off the log .
But Johnny Chuck was so round and so fat and so roly-poly that it did n't hurt him a bit .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laughed Happy Jack up in the tree .
`` Ha !
Ha !
Ha ! ''
laughed Johnny Chuck , picking himself up .
Then they both laughed together .
It was such a good joke .
`` What are you laughing at ? ''
asked a voice so close to Johnny Chuck that he rolled over three times he was so surprised .
It was Peter Rabbit .
`` What are you doing in my wood ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm taking a walk , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` Good , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` I 'll come along too . ''
So Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit set out along the Lone Little Path through the wood .
Peter Rabbit hopped along with great big jumps , for Peter 's legs are long and meant for jumping , but Johnny Chuck could n't keep up though he tried very hard , for Johnny 's legs are short .
Pretty soon Peter Rabbit came back , walking very softly .
He whispered in Johnny Chuck 's ear .
`` I 've found something , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` What is it ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` I 'll show you , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` but you must be very , very still , and not make the least little bit of noise . ''
Johnny Chuck promised to be very , very still for he wanted very much to see what Peter Rabbit had found .
Peter Rabbit tip-toed down the Lone Little Path through the wood , his funny long ears pointing right up to the sky .
And behind him tip-toed Johnny Chuck , wondering and wondering what it could be that Peter Rabbit had found .
Pretty soon they came to a nice mossy green log right across the Lone Little Path .
Peter Rabbit stopped and sat up very straight .
He looked this way and looked that way .
Johnny Chuck stopped too and he sat up very straight and looked this way and looked that way , but all he could see was the mossy green log across the Lone Little Path .
`` What is it , Peter Rabbit ? ''
whispered Johnny Chuck .
`` You ca n't see it yet , '' whispered Peter Rabbit , `` for first we have to jump over that mossy green log .
Now I 'll jump first , and then you jump just the way I do , and then you 'll see what it is I 've found , '' said Peter Rabbit .
So Peter Rabbit jumped first , and because his legs are long and meant for jumping , he jumped way , way over the mossy green log .
Then he turned around and sat up to see Johnny Chuck jump over the mossy green log , too .
Johnny Chuck tried to jump very high and very far , just as he had seen Peter Rabbit jump , but Johnny Chuck 's legs are very short and not meant for jumping .
Besides , Johnny Chuck was very , very fat .
So though he tried very hard indeed to jump just like Peter Rabbit , he stubbed his toes on the top of the mossy green log and over he tumbled , head first , and landed with a great big thump right on Reddy Fox , who was lying fast asleep on the other side of the mossy green log .
Peter Rabbit laughed and laughed until he had to hold his sides .
My , how frightened Johnny Chuck was when he saw what he had done !
Before he could get on his feet he had rolled right over behind a little bush , and there he lay very , very still .
Reddy Fox awoke with a grunt when Johnny Chuck fell on him so hard , and the first thing he saw was Peter Rabbit laughing so that he had to hold his sides .
Reddy Fox did n't stop to look around .
He thought that Peter Rabbit had jumped on him .
Up jumped Reddy Fox and away ran Peter Rabbit .
Away went Reddy Fox after Peter Rabbit .
Peter dodged behind the trees , and jumped over the bushes , and ran this way and ran that way , just as hard as ever he could , for Peter Rabbit was very much afraid of Reddy Fox .
And Reddy Fox followed Peter Rabbit behind the trees and over the bushes this way and that way , but he could n't catch Peter Rabbit .
Pretty soon Peter Rabbit came to the house of Jimmy Skunk .
He knew that Jimmy Skunk was over in the pasture , so he popped right in and then he was safe , for the door of Jimmy Skunk 's house was too small for Reddy Fox to squeeze in .
Reddy Fox sat down and waited , but Peter Rabbit did n't come out .
By and by Reddy Fox gave it up and trotted off home where old Mother Fox was waiting for him .
All this time Johnny Chuck had sat very still , watching Reddy Fox try to catch Peter Rabbit .
And when he saw Peter Rabbit pop into the house of Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox trot away home , Johnny Chuck stood up and brushed his little coat very clean and then he trotted back up the Lone Little Path through the wood to his own dear little path through the Green Meadows where the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were still playing , till he was safe in his own snug little house once more .
CHAPTER X HOW SAMMY JAY WAS FOUND OUT Sammy Jay was very busy , very busy indeed .
When anyone happened that way Sammy Jay pretended to be doing nothing at all , for Sammy Jay thought himself a very fine gentleman .
He was very proud of his handsome blue coat with white trimmings and his high cap , and he would sit on a fence post and make fun of Johnny Chuck working at a new door for his snug little home in the Green Meadows , and of Striped Chipmunk storing up heaps of corn and nuts for the winter , for most of the time Sammy Jay was an idle fellow .
And when Sammy Jay WAS busy , he was pretty sure to be doing something that he ought not to do , for idle people almost always get into mischief .
Sammy Jay was in mischief now , and that is why he pretended to be doing nothing when he thought any one was looking .
Old Mother West Wind had come down from her home behind the Purple Hills very early that morning .
Indeed , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had hardly gotten out of bed when she crossed the Green Meadows on her way to help the big ships across the ocean .
Old Mother West Wind 's eyes were sharp , and she saw Sammy Jay before Sammy Jay saw her .
`` Now what can Sammy Jay be so busy about , and why is he so very , very quiet ? ''
thought Old Mother West Wind .
`` He must be up to some mischief . ''
So when she opened her big bag and turned out all her Merry Little Breezes to play on the Green Meadows she sent one of them to see what Sammy Jay was doing in the old chestnut tree .
The Merry Little Breeze danced along over the tree tops just as if he had n't a thought in the world but to wake up all the little leaves and set them to dancing too , and Sammy Jay , watching Old Mother West Wind and the other Merry Little Breezes , did n't see this Merry Little Breeze at all .
Pretty soon it danced back to Old Mother West Wind and whispered in her ear : `` Sammy Jay is stealing the nuts Happy Jack Squirrel had hidden in the hollow of the old chestnut tree , and is hiding them for himself in the tumble down nest that Blacky the Crow built in the Great Pine last year . ''
`` Aha ! ''
said Old Mother West Wind .
Then she went on across the Green Meadows .
`` Good morning , Old Mother West Wind , '' said Sammy Jay as she passed the fence post where he was sitting .
`` Good morning , Sammy Jay , '' said Old Mother West Wind .
`` What brings you out so early in the morning ? ''
`` I 'm out for my health , Old Mother West Wind , '' said Sammy Jay politely .
`` The doctor has ordered me to take a bath in the dew at sunrise every morning . ''
Old Mother West Wind said nothing , but went on her way across the Green Meadows to blow the ships across the ocean .
When she had passed , Sammy Jay hurried to take the last of Happy Jack 's nuts to the old nest in the Great Pine .
Poor Happy Jack !
Soon he came dancing along with another nut to put in the hollow of the old chestnut tree .
When he peeped in and saw that all his big store of nuts had disappeared , he could n't believe his own eyes .
He put in one paw and felt all around but not a nut could he feel .
Then he climbed in and sure enough , the hollow was empty .
Poor Happy Jack !
There were tears in his eyes when he crept out again .
He looked all around but no one was to be seen but handsome Sammy Jay , very busy brushing his beautiful blue coat .
`` Good morning , Sammy Jay , have you seen any one pass this way ? ''
asked Happy Jack .
`` Some one has stolen a store of nuts from the hollow in the old chestnut tree . ''
Sammy Jay pretended to feel very badly indeed , and in his sweetest voice , for his voice was very sweet in those days , he offered to help Happy Jack try to catch the thief who had stolen the store of nuts from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
Together they went down cross the Green Meadows asking every one whom they met if they had seen the thief who had stolen Happy Jack 's store of nuts from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
All the Merry Little Breezes joined in the search , and soon every one who lived in the Green Meadows or in the wood knew that some one had stolen all of Happy Jack Squirrel 's store of nuts from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
And because every one liked Happy Jack , every one felt very sorry indeed for him .
The next morning all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were turned out of the big bag into the Green Meadows very early indeed , for they had a lot of errands to do .
All over the Green Meadows they hurried , all through the wood , up and down the Laughing Brook and all around the Smiling Pool , inviting everybody to meet at the Great Pine on the hill at nine o'clock to form a committee of the whole -- to try to find the thief who stole Happy Jack 's nuts from the hollow in the old chestnut tree .
And because every one liked Happy Jack every one went to the Great Pine on the hill -- Reddy Fox , Bobby Coon , Jimmy Skunk Striped Chipmunk , who is Happy Jack 's cousin you know , Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Hooty the Owl , who was almost too sleepy to keep his eyes open , Blacky the Crow , Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , even old Grandfather Frog .
Of course Sammy Jay was there , looking his handsomest .
When they had all gathered around the Great Pine , Old Mother West Wind pointed to the old nest way up in the top of it .
`` Is that your nest ? ''
she asked Blacky the Crow .
`` It was , but I gave it to my cousin , Sammy Jay , '' said Blacky the Crow .
`` Is that your nest , and may I have a stick out of it ? ''
asked Old Mother West Wind of Sammy Jay .
`` It is , '' said Sammy Jay , with his politest bow , `` And you are welcome to a stick out of it . ''
To himself he thought , `` She will only take one from the top and that wo n't matter . ''
Old Mother West Wind suddenly puffed out her cheeks and blew so hard that she blew a big stick right out of the bottom of the old nest .
Down it fell bumpity-bump on the branches of the Great Pine .
After it fell -- what do you think ?
Why , hickory nuts and chestnuts and acorns and hazel nuts , such a lot of them !
`` Why !
Why -- e -- e! '' cried Happy Jack .
`` There are all my stolen nuts ! ''
Everybody turned to look at Sammy Jay , but he was flying off through the wood as fast as he could go .
`` Stop thief ! ''
cried Old Mother West Wind .
`` Stop thief ! ''
cried all the Merry Little Breezes and Johnny Chuck and Billy Mink and all the rest .
But Sammy Jay did n't stop .
Then all began to pick up the nuts that had fallen from the old nest where Sammy Jay had hidden them .
By and by , with Happy Jack leading the way , they all marched back to the old chestnut tree and there Happy Jack stored all the nuts away in his snug little hollow once more .
And ever since that day , Sammy Jay , whenever he tries to call , just screams : `` Thief ! ''
`` Thief ! ''
`` Thief ! ''
CHAPTER XI JERRY MUSKRAT 'S PARTY All the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were hurrying over the Green Meadows .
Some flew this way and some ran that way and some danced the other way .
You see , Jerry Muskrat had asked them to carry his invitations to a party at the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool .
Of course every one said that they would be delighted to go to Jerry Muskrat 's party .
Round Mr. Sun shone his very brightest .
The sky was its bluest and the little birds had promised to be there to sing for Jerry Muskrat , so of course all the little folks in the Green Meadows and in the wood wanted to go .
There were Johnny Chuck and Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Happy Jack Squirrel and Striped Chipmunk and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Grandfather Frog and old Mr. Toad and Mr. Blacksnake -- all going to Jerry Muskrat 's party .
When they reached the Smiling Pool they found Jerry Muskrat all ready .
His brothers and his sister , his aunts and his uncles and his cousins were all there .
Such a merry , merry time as there was in the Smiling Pool !
How the water did splash !
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Grandfather Frog jumped right in as soon as they got there .
They played tag in the water and hid behind the Big Rock .
They turned somersaults down the slippery slide and they had such a good time !
But Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Johnny Chuck and Jimmy Skunk and Happy Jack and Striped Chipmunk could n't swim , so of course they could n't play tag in the water or hide and seek or go down the slippery slide ; all they could do was sit around to look on and wish that they knew how to swim , too .
So of course they did n't have a good time .
Soon they began to wish that they had n't come to Jerry Muskrat 's party .
When he found that they were not having a good time , poor Jerry Muskrat felt very badly indeed .
You see he lives in the water so much that he had quite forgotten that there was anyone who could n't swim , or he never , never would have invited all the little meadow folks who live on dry land .
`` Let 's go home , '' said Peter Rabbit to Johnny Chuck .
`` We can have more fun up on the hill , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
Just then Little Joe Otter came pushing a great big log across the Smiling Pool .
`` Here 's a ship , Bobby Coon .
You get on one end and I 'll give you a sail across the Smiling Pool , '' shouted Little Joe Otter .
So Bobby Coon crawled out on the big log and held on very tight , while little Joe Otter swam behind and pushed the big log .
Across the Smiling Pool they went and back again .
Bobby Coon had such a good ride that he wanted to go again , but Jimmy Skunk wanted a ride .
So Bobby Coon hopped off of the big log and Jimmy Skunk hopped on and away he went across the Smiling Pool with little Joe Otter pushing behind .
Then Jerry Muskrat found another log and gave Peter Rabbit a ride .
Jerry Muskrat 's brothers and sisters and aunts and uncles and cousins found logs and took Reddy Fox and Johnny Chuck and even Mr. Toad back and forth across the Smiling Pool .
Happy Jack Squirrel sat up very straight on the end of his log and spread his great bushy tail for a sail .
All the little Breezes blew and blew and Happy Jack Squirrel sailed round and round the Smiling Pool .
Sometimes someone would fall off into the water and get wet , but Jerry Muskrat or Billy Mink always pulled them out again , and no one cared the tiniest bit for a wetting .
In the bushes around the Smiling Pool the little birds sang and sang .
Reddy Fox barked his loudest .
Happy Jack Squirrel chattered and chir -- r -- r -- ed .
All the muskrats squealed and squeaked , for Jerry Muskrat 's party was such fun !
By and by when Mr. Sun went down behind the Purple Hills to his home and Old Mother West Wind with all her Merry Little Breezes went after him , and the little stars came out to twinkle and twinkle , the Smiling Pool lay all quiet and still , but smiling and smiling to think what a good time every one had had at Jerry Muskrat 's party .
CHAPTER XII BOBBY COON AND REDDY FOX PLAY TRICKS It was night .
All the little stars were looking down and twinkling and twinkling .
Mother Moon was doing her best to make the Green Meadows as light as Mr. Sun did in the daytime .
All the little birds except Hooty the Owl and Boomer the Night Hawk , and noisy Mr. Whip-poor-will were fast asleep in their little nests .
Old Mother West Wind 's Merry Little Breezes had all gone to sleep , too .
It was oh so still !
Indeed it was so very still that Bobby Coon , coming down the Lone Little Path through the wood , began to talk to himself .
`` I do n't see what people want to play all day and sleep all night for , '' said Bobby Coon .
`` Night 's the best time to be about .
Now Reddy Fox -- '' `` Be careful what you say about Reddy Fox , '' said a voice right behind Bobby Coon .
Bobby Coon turned around very quickly indeed , for he had thought he was all alone .
There was Reddy Fox himself , trotting down the Lone Little Path through the wood .
`` I thought you were home and fast asleep , Reddy Fox , '' said Bobby Coon .
`` You were mistaken , '' said Reddy Fox .
`` For you see I 'm out to take a walk in the moonlight . ''
So Bobby Coon and Reddy Fox walked together down the Lone Little Path through the wood to the Green Meadows .
They met Jimmy Skunk , who had dreamed that there were a lot of beetles up on the hill , and was just going to climb the Crooked Little Path to see .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
said Bobby Coon and Reddy Fox .
`` Come down to the Green Meadows with us . ''
Jimmy Skunk said he would , so they all went down on the Green Meadows together , Bobby Coon first , Reddy Fox next and Jimmy Skunk last of all , for Jimmy Skunk never hurries .
Pretty soon they came to the house of Johnny Chuck .
`` Listen , '' said Bobby Coon .
`` Johnny Chuck is fast asleep . ''
They all listened and they could hear Johnny Chuck snoring away down in his snug little bed .
`` Let 's give Johnny Chuck a surprise , '' said Reddy Fox .
`` What shall it be ? ''
asked Bobby Coon .
`` I know , '' said Reddy Fox .
`` Let 's roll that big stone right over Johnny Chuck 's doorway ; then he 'll have to dig his way out in the morning . ''
So Bobby Coon and Reddy Fox pulled and tugged and tugged and pulled at the big stone till they had rolled it over Johnny Chuck 's doorway .
Jimmy Skunk pretended not to see what they were doing .
`` Now let 's go down to the Laughing Brook and wake up old Grandfather Frog and hear him say ` Chug-a-rum , ' '' said Bobby Coon .
`` Come on ! ''
cried Reddy Fox , `` I 'll get there first ! ''
Away raced Reddy Fox down the Lone Little Path and after him ran Bobby Coon , going to wake old Grandfather Frog from a nice comfortable sleep on his green lily pad .
But Jimmy Skunk did n't go .
He watched Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon until they were nearly to the Laughing Brook .
Then he began to dig at one side of the big stone which filled the doorway of Johnny Chuck 's house .
My , how he made the dirt fly !
Pretty soon he had made a hole big enough to call through to Johnny Chuck , who was snoring away , fast asleep in his snug little bed below .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
called Jimmy Skunk .
But Johnny Chuck just snored .
`` Johnny Chuck , Chuck , Chuck !
Johnny Woodchuck ! ''
called Jimmy Skunk once more .
But Johnny Chuck just snored .
Then Jimmy Skunk called again , this time louder than before .
`` Who is it ? ''
asked a very sleepy voice .
`` It 's Jimmy Skunk .
Put your coat on and come up here ! ''
called Jimmy Skunk .
`` Go away , Jimmy Skunk .
I want to sleep ! ''
said Johnny Chuck .
`` I 've got a surprise for you , Johnny Chuck .
You 'd better come ! ''
called Jimmy Skunk through the little hole he had made .
When Johnny Chuck heard that Jimmy Skunk had a surprise for him he wanted to know right away what it could be , so though he was very , very sleepy , he put on his coat and started up for his door to see what the surprise was that Jimmy Skunk had .
And there he found the big stone Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon had put there , and of course he was very much surprised indeed .
He thought Jimmy Skunk had played him a mean trick and for a few minutes he was very mad .
But Jimmy Skunk soon told him who had filled up his doorway with the big stone .
`` Now you push from that side , Johnny Chuck , and I 'll pull from this side , and we 'll soon have this big stone out of your doorway , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
So Johnny Chuck pushed and Jimmy Skunk pulled , and sure enough they soon had the big stone out of Johnny Chuck 's doorway .
`` Now , '' said Jimmy Skunk , `` we 'll roll this big stone down the Lone Little Path to Reddy Fox 's house and we 'll give Reddy Fox a surprise . ''
So Johnny Chuck and Jimmy Skunk tugged and pulled and rolled the big stone down to the house of Reddy Fox , and sure enough , it filled his doorway .
`` Good night , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Johnny Chuck , and trotted down the Lone Little Path toward home , chuckling to himself all the way .
Jimmy Skunk walked slowly up the Lone Little Path to the wood , for Jimmy Skunk never hurries .
Pretty soon he came to the big hollow tree where Bobby Coon lives , and there he met Hooty the Owl .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk , where have you been ? ''
asked Hooty the Owl .
`` Just for a walk , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Who lives in this big hollow tree ? ''
Now of course Jimmy Skunk knew all the time , but he pretended he did n't .
`` Oh , this is Bobby Coon 's house , '' said Hooty the Owl .
`` Let 's give Bobby Coon a surprise , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` How ? ''
asked Hooty the Owl .
`` We 'll fill his house full of sticks and leaves , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
Hooty the Owl thought that would be a good joke so while Jimmy Skunk gathered all the old sticks and leaves he could find , Hooty the Owl stuffed them into the old hollow tree which was Bobby Coon 's house , until he could n't get in another one .
`` Good night , '' said Jimmy Skunk as he began to climb the Crooked Little Path up the hill to his own snug little home .
`` Good night , '' said Hooty the Owl , as he flew like a big soft shadow over to the Great Pine .
By and by when old Mother Moon was just going to bed and all the little stars were too sleepy to twinkle any longer , Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon , very tired and very wet from playing in the Laughing Brook , came up the Lone Little Path , ready to tumble into their snug little beds .
They were chuckling over the trick they had played on Johnny Chuck , and the way they had waked up old Grandfather Frog , and all the other mischief they had done .
What do you suppose they said when they reached their homes and found that someone else had been playing jokes , too ?
I 'm sure I do n't know , but round , red Mr. Sun was laughing very hard as he peeped over the hill at Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon , and he wo n't tell why .
CHAPTER XIII JOHNNY CHUCK FINDS THE BEST THING IN THE WORLD Old Mother West Wind had stopped to talk with the Slender Fir Tree .
`` I 've just come across the Green Meadows , '' said Old Mother West Wind , `` and there I saw the Best Thing in the World . ''
Striped Chipmunk was sitting under the Slender Fir Tree and he could n't help hearing what Old Mother West Wind said .
`` The Best Thing in the World -- now what can that be ? ''
thought Striped Chipmunk .
`` Why , it must be heaps and heaps of nuts and acorns !
I 'll go and find it . ''
So Striped Chipmunk started down the Lone Little Path through the wood as fast as he could run .
Pretty soon he met Peter Rabbit .
`` Where are you going in such a hurry , Striped Chipmunk ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` Down in the Green Meadows to find the Best Thing in the World , '' replied Striped Chipmunk , and ran faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Why , that must be great piles of carrots and cabbage !
I think I 'll go and find it . ''
So Peter Rabbit started down the Lone Little Path through the wood as fast as he could go after Striped Chipmunk .
As they passed the great hollow tree Bobby Coon put his head out .
`` Where are you going in such a hurry ? ''
asked Bobby Coon .
`` Down in the Green Meadows to find the Best Thing in the World ! ''
shouted Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit , and both began to run faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' said Bobby Coon to himself .
`` Why , that must be a whole field of sweet milky corn .
I think I 'll go and find it . ''
So Bobby Coon climbed down out of the great hollow tree and started down the Lone Little Path through the wood as fast as he could go after Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit , for there is nothing that Bobby Coon likes to eat so well as sweet milky corn .
At the edge of the wood they met Jimmy Skunk .
`` Where are you going in such a hurry ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk .
`` Down in the Green Meadows to find the Best Thing in the World ! ''
shouted Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon .
Then they all tried to run faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Why , that must be packs and packs of beetles ! ''
And for once in his life Jimmy Skunk began to hurry down the Lone Little Path after Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon .
They were all running so fast that they did n't see Reddy Fox until he jumped out of the long grass and asked : `` Where are you going in such a hurry ? ''
`` To find the Best Thing in the World ! ''
shouted Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk , and each did his best to run faster .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' said Reddy Fox to himself .
`` Why , that must be a whole pen full of tender young chickens , and I must have them . ''
So away went Reddy Fox as fast as he could run down the Lone Little Path after Striped Chipmunk , Peter Rabbit , Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk .
By and by they all came to the house of Johnny Chuck .
`` Where are you going in such a hurry ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` To find the Best Thing in the World , '' shouted Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox .
`` The Best Thing in the World , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` Why , I do n't know of anything better than my own little home and the warm sunshine and the beautiful blue sky . ''
So Johnny Chuck stayed at home and played all day among the flowers with the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind and was as happy as could be .
But all day long Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox ran this way and ran that way over the Green Meadows trying to find the Best Thing in the World .
The sun was very , very warm and they ran so far and they ran so fast that they were very , very hot and tired , and still they had n't found the Best Thing in the World .
When the long day was over they started up the Lone Little Path past Johnny Chuck 's house to their own homes .
They did n't hurry now for they were so very , very tired !
And they were cross -- oh so cross !
Striped Chipmunk had n't found a single nut .
Peter Rabbit had n't found so much as the leaf of a cabbage .
Bobby Coon had n't found the tiniest bit of sweet milky corn .
Jimmy Skunk had n't seen a single beetle .
Reddy Fox had n't heard so much as the peep of a chicken .
And all were as hungry as hungry could be .
Half way up the Lone Little Path they met Old Mother West Wind going to her home behind the hill .
`` Did you find the Best Thing in the World ? ''
asked Old Mother West Wind .
`` NO ! ''
shouted Striped Chipmunk and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox all together .
`` Johnny Chuck has it , '' said Old Mother West Wind .
`` It is being happy with the things you have and not wanting things which some one else has .
And it is called Con-tent-ment . ''
CHAPTER XIV LITTLE JOE OTTER 'S SLIPPERY SLIDE Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink had been playing together around the Smiling Pool all one sunshiny morning .
They had been fishing and had taken home a fine dinner of Trout for old Grandfather Mink and blind old Granny Otter .
They had played tag with the Merry Little Breezes .
They had been in all kinds of mischief and now they just did n't know what to do .
They were sitting side by side on the Big Rock trying to push each other off into the Smiling Pool .
Round , smiling red Mr. Sun made the Green Meadows very warm indeed , and Reddy Fox , over in the tall grass , heard them splashing and shouting and having such a good time that he wished he liked the nice cool water and could swim , too .
`` I 've thought of something ! ''
cried Little Joe Otter .
`` What is it ? ''
asked Billy Mink .
Little Joe Otter just looked wise and said nothing .
`` Something to eat ? ''
asked Billy Mink .
`` No , '' said Little Joe Otter .
`` I do n't believe you 've a thought of anything at all , '' said Billy Mink .
`` I have too ! ''
said Little Joe Otter .
`` It 's something to do . ''
`` What ? ''
demanded Billy Mink .
Just then Little Joe Otter spied Jerry Muskrat .
`` Hi , Jerry Muskrat !
Come over here ! ''
he called .
Jerry Muskrat swam across to the Big Rock and climbed up beside Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
`` What are you fellows doing ? ''
asked Jerry Muskrat .
`` Having some fun , '' said Billy Mink .
`` Little Joe Otter has thought of something to do , but I do n't know what it is . ''
`` Let 's make a slide , '' cried Little Joe Otter .
`` You show us how , '' said Billy Mink .
So Little Joe Otter found a nice smooth place on the bank , and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat brought mud and helped him pat it down smooth until they had the loveliest slippery slide in the world .
Then Little Joe Otter climbed up the bank to the top of the slippery slide and lay down flat on his stomach .
Billy Mink gave a push and away he went down , down the slippery slide , splash into the Smiling Pool .
Then Jerry Muskrat tried it and after him Billy Mink .
Then all did it over again .
Sometimes they went down the slippery slide on their backs , sometimes flat on their stomachs , sometimes head first , sometimes feet first .
Oh such fun as they did have !
Even Grandfather Frog came over and tried the slippery slide .
Johnny Chuck , over in the Green Meadows , heard the noise and stole down the Lone Little Path to see .
Jimmy Skunk , looking for beetles up on the hill , heard the noise and forgot that he had n't had his breakfast .
Reddy Fox , taking a nap , woke up and hurried over to watch the fun .
Last of all came Peter Rabbit .
Little Joe Otter saw him coming .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit ! ''
he shouted .
`` Come and try the slippery slide . ''
Now Peter Rabbit could n't swim , but he pretended that he did n't want to .
`` I 've left my bathing suit at home , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Never mind , '' said Billy Mink .
`` Mr. Sun will dry you off . ''
`` And we 'll help , '' said all the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind .
But Peter Rabbit shook his head and said , `` No . ''
Faster and faster went Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and old Grandfather Frog down the slippery slide into the Smiling Pool .
Peter Rabbit kept coming nearer and nearer until finally he stood right at the top of the slippery slide .
Billy Mink crept up behind him very softly and gave him a push .
Peter Rabbit 's long legs flew out from under him and down he sat with a thump on the slippery slide .
`` Oh , '' cried Peter Rabbit , and tried to stop himself .
But he could n't do it and so away he went down the slippery slide , splash into the Smiling Pool .
`` Ha !
ha !
ha ! ''
laughed Billy Mink .
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
shouted Little Joe Otter .
`` He !
he !
he ! ''
laughed Jerry Muskrat and old Grandfather Frog and Sammy Jay and Jimmy Skunk and Reddy Fox and Blacky the Crow and Mr. Kingfisher , for you know Peter Rabbit was forever playing jokes on them .
Poor Peter Rabbit !
The water got in his eyes and up his nose and into his mouth and made him choke and splutter , and then he could n't get back on the bank , for you know Peter Rabbit could n't swim .
When Little Joe Otter saw what a dreadful time Peter Rabbit was having he dove into the Smiling Pool and took hold of one of Peter Rabbit 's long ears .
Billy Mink swam out and took hold of the other long ear .
Jerry Muskrat swam right under Peter Rabbit and took him on his back .
Then with old Grandfather Frog swimming ahead they took Peter Rabbit right across the Smiling Pool and pulled him out on the grassy bank , where it was nice and warm .
All the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind came over and helped Mr. Sun dry Peter Rabbit off .
Then they all sat down together and watched Little Joe Otter turn a somersault down the slippery slide .
CHAPTER XV THE TAIL OF TOMMY TROUT WHO DID NOT MIND In the Laughing Brook , which rippled and sings all day long , lived Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout , and a whole lot of little Trouts .
There were so many little Trouts that Mr. Trout and Mrs. Trout were kept very busy indeed getting breakfast and dinner and supper for them , and watching out for them and teaching them how to swim and how to catch foolish little flies that sometimes fell on the water and how to keep out of the way of big hungry fish and sharp eyed Mr. Kingfisher and big men and little boys who came fishing with hooks and lines .
Now all the little Trouts were very , very good and minded just what Mrs. Trout told them -- all but Tommy Trout , for Tommy Trout -- oh , dear , dear !
Tommy Trout never could mind right away .
He always had to wait a little instead of minding when he was spoken to .
Tommy Trout did n't mean to be bad .
Oh dear , no !
He just wanted to have his own way , and because Tommy Trout had his own way and did n't mind Mrs. Trout there is n't any Tommy Trout now .
No sir , there is n't as much as one little blue spot of his beautiful little coat left because -- why , just because Tommy Trout did n't mind .
One day when round , red Mr. Sun was shining and the Laughing Brook was singing on its way to join the Big River , Mrs. Trout started to get some nice plump flies for dinner .
All the little Trouts were playing in their dear little pool , safe behind the Big Rock .
Before she started Mrs. Trout called all the little Trouts around her and told them not to leave their little pool while she was gone , `` For , '' said she , `` something dreadful might happen to you . ''
All the little Trouts , except Tommy Trout , promised that they would surely , surely stay inside their dear little pool .
Then they all began to jump and chase each other and play as happy as could be , all but Tommy Trout .
As soon as Mrs. Trout had started , Tommy Trout swam off by himself to the edge of the pool .
`` I wonder what is on the other side of the Big Rock , '' said Tommy Trout .
`` The sun is shining and the brook is laughing and nothing could happen if I go just a little speck of a ways . ''
So , when no one was looking , Tommy Trout slipped out of the safe little pool where all the other little Trouts were playing .
He swam just a little speck of a ways farther still .
Now he could see almost around the Big Rock .
Then he swam just a little speck of a ways farther and -- oh dear , dear !
he looked right into the mouth of a great big , big fish called Mr. Pickerel , who is very fond of little Trouts and would like to eat one for breakfast every day .
`` Ah ha ! ''
said Mr. Pickerel , opening his big , big mouth very , very wide .
Tommy Trout turned to run back to the dear , dear safe little pool where all the other little Trouts were playing so happily , but he was too late .
Into that great big , big mouth he went instead , and Mr. Pickerel swallowed him whole .
`` Ah ha , '' said Mr. Pickerel , `` I like little Trouts . ''
And nothing more was ever heard of Tommy Trout , who did n't mind .
CHAPTER XVI SPOTTY THE TURTLE WINS A RACE All the little people who live on the Green Meadows and in the Smiling Pool and along the Laughing Brook were to have a holiday .
The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind had been very busy , oh very busy indeed , in sending word to all the little meadow folks .
You see , Peter Rabbit had been boasting of how fast he could run .
Reddy Fox was quite sure that he could run faster than Peter Rabbit .
Billy Mink , who can move so quickly you hardly can see him , was quite sure that neither Peter Rabbit nor Reddy Fox could run as fast as he .
They all met one day beside the Smiling Pool and agreed that old Grandfather Frog should decide who was the swiftest .
Now Grandfather Frog was accounted very wise .
You see he had lived a long time , oh , very much longer than any of the others , and therefore , because of the wisdom of age , Grandfather Frog was always called on to decide all disputes .
He sat on his green lily-pad while Billy Mink sat on the Big Rock , and Peter Rabbit and Reddy Fox sat on the bank .
Each in turn told why he thought he was the fastest .
Old Grandfather Frog listened and listened and said never a word until they were all through .
When they had finished , he stopped to catch a foolish green fly and then he said : `` The best way to decide who is the swiftest is to have a race . ''
So it was agreed that Peter Rabbit and Reddy Fox and Billy Mink should start together from the old butternut tree on one edge of the Green Meadows , race away across the Green Meadows to the little hill on the other side and each bring back a nut from the big hickory which grew there .
The one who first reached the old butternut tree with a hickory nut would be declared the winner .
The Merry Little Breezes flew about over the Green Meadows telling everyone about the race and everyone planned to be there .
It was a beautiful summer day .
Mr. Sun smiled and smiled , and the more he smiled the warmer it grew .
Everyone was there to see the race -- Striped Chipmunk , Happy Jack Squirrel , Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , Hooty the Owl and Bobby Coon all sat up in the old butternut tree where it was cool and shady .
Johnny Chuck , Jerry Muskrat , Jimmy Skunk , Little Joe Otter , Grandfather Frog and even old Mr. Toad , were there .
Last of all came Spotty the Turtle .
Now Spotty the Turtle is a very slow walker , and he can not run at all .
When Peter Rabbit saw him coming up towards the old butternut tree he shouted : `` Come , Spotty , do n't you want to race with us ? ''
Everybody laughed because you know Spotty is so very , very slow but Spotty did n't laugh and he did n't get cross because everyone else laughed .
`` There is a wise old saying , Peter Rabbit , '' said Spotty the Turtle , `` which shows that those who run fastest do not always reach a place first .
I think I WILL enter this race . ''
Every one thought that that was the best joke they had heard for a long time , and all laughed harder than ever .
They all agreed that Spotty the Turtle should start in the race too .
So they all stood in a row , Peter Rabbit first , the Billy Mink , then Reddy Fox , and right side of Reddy Fox Spotty the Turtle .
`` Are you ready ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
`` Go ! ''
Away went Peter Rabbit with great big jumps .
After him went Billy Mink so fast that was just a little brown streak going through the tall grass , and side by side with him ran Reddy Fox .
Now just as they started Spotty the Turtle reached up and grabbed the long hair on the end of Reddy 's big tail .
Of course Reddy could n't have stopped to shake him off , because Peter Rabbit and Billy Mink were running so fast that he had to run his very best to keep up with them .
But he did n't even know that Spotty the Turtle was there .
You see Spotty is not very heavy and Reddy Fox was so excited that he did not notice that his big tail was heavier than usual .
The Merry Little Breezes flew along , too , to see that the race was fair .
Peter Rabbit went with great big jumps .
Whenever he came to a little bush he jumped right over it , for Peter Rabbit 's legs are long and meant for jumping .
Billy Mink is so slim that he slipped between the bushes and through the long grass like a little brown streak .
Reddy Fox , who is bigger than either Peter Rabbit or Billy Mink , had no trouble in keeping up with them .
Not one of them noticed that Spotty the Turtle was hanging fast to the end of Reddy 's tail .
Now just at the foot of the little hill on which the big hickory tree grew was a little pond .
It was n't very wide but it was quite long .
Billy Mink remembered this pond and he chuckled to himself as he raced along , for he knew that Peter Rabbit could n't swim and he knew that Reddy Fox does not like the water , so therefore both would have to run around it .
He himself can swim even faster than he can run .
The more he thought of this , the more foolish it seemed that he should hurry so on such a warm day .
`` For , '' said Billy Mink to himself , `` even if they reach the pond first , they will have to run around it , while I can swim across it and cool off while I am swimming .
I will surely get there first . ''
So Billy Mink ran slower and slower , and pretty soon he had dropped behind .
Mr. Sun , round and red , looking down , smiled and smiled to see the race .
The more he smiled the warmer it grew .
Now , Peter Rabbit had a thick gray coat and Reddy Fox had a thick red coat , and they both began to get very , very warm .
Peter Rabbit did not make such long jumps as when he first started .
Reddy Fox began to feel very thirsty , and his tongue hung out .
Now that Billy Mink was behind them they thought they did not need to hurry so .
Peter Rabbit reached the little pond first .
He had not thought of that pond when he agreed to enter the race .
He stopped right on the edge of it and sat up on his hind legs .
Right across he could see the big hickory tree , so near and yet so far , for he knew that he must run around the pond then back again , and it was a long , long way .
In just a moment Reddy Fox ran out of the bushes and Reddy felt much as Peter Rabbit did .
Way , way behind them was Billy Mink , trotting along comfortably and chuckling to himself .
Peter Rabbit looked at Reddy Fox in dismay , and Reddy Fox looked at Peter Rabbit in dismay .
Then they both looked at Billy Mink and remembered that Billy Mink could swim right across .
Then off Peter Rabbit started as fast as he could go around the pond one way , and Reddy Fox started around the pond the other way .
They were so excited that neither noticed a little splash in the pond .
That was Spotty the Turtle who had let go of Reddy 's tail and now was swimming across the pond , for you know that Spotty is a splendid swimmer .
Only once or twice he stuck his little black nose up to get some air .
The rest of the time he swam under water and no one but the Merry Little Breezes saw him .
Right across he swam , and climbed up the bank right under the big hickory tree .
Now there were just three nuts left under the hickory trees .
Two of these Spotty took down to the edge of the pond and buried in the mud .
The other he took in his mouth and started back across the pond .
Just as he reached the other shore up trotted Billy Mink , but Billy Mink did n't see Spotty .
He was too intent watching Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit , who were now half way around the pond .
In he jumped with a splash .
My !
How good that cool water did feel !
He did n't have to hurry now , because he felt sure that the race was his .
So he swam round and round and chased some fish and had a beautiful time in the water .
By and by he looked up and saw that Peter Rabbit was almost around the pond one way and Reddy Fox was almost around the pond the other way .
They both looked tired and hot and discouraged .
Then Billy Mink swam slowly across and climbed out on the bank under the big hickory tree .
But where were the nuts ?
Look as he would , he could not see a nut anywhere , yet the Merry Little Breezes had said there were three nuts lying under the hickory tree .
Billy Mink ran this way and ran that way .
He was still running around , poking over the leaves and looking under the twigs and pieces of bark when Peter Rabbit and Reddy Fox came up .
Then they , too , began to look under the leaves and under the bark .
They pawed around in the grass , they hunted in every nook and cranny , but not a nut could they find .
They were tired and cross and hot and they accused Billy Mink of having hidden the nuts .
Billy Mink stoutly insisted that he had not hidden the nuts , that he had not found the nuts , and when they saw how hard he was hunting they believed him .
All the afternoon they hunted and hunted and hunted , and all the afternoon Spotty the Turtle , with the nut in his mouth , was slowly , oh , so slowly , crawling straight back across the Green Meadows towards the old butternut tree .
Round , red Mr. Sun was getting very close to the Purple Hills , where he goes to bed every night , and all the little meadow folks were getting ready to go to their homes .
They were wondering and wondering what could have happened to the racers , when Sammy Jay spied the Merry Little Breezes dancing across the Green Meadows .
`` Here come the Merry Little Breezes ; they 'll tell us who wins the race , '' cried Sammy Jay .
When the Merry Little Breezes reached the old butternut tree , all the little meadow folks crowded around them , but the Merry Little Breezes just laughed and laughed and would n't say a word .
Then all of a sudden , out of the tall meadow grass crept Spotty the Turtle and laid the hickory nut at the feet of old Grandfather Frog .
Old Grandfather Frog was so surprised that he actually let a great green fly buzz right past his nose .
`` Where did you get that hickory nut ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
`` Under the big hickory tree on the hill on the other side of the Green Meadows , '' said Spotty .
Then all the Merry Little Breezes clapped their hands and shouted : `` He did !
He did !
Spotty wins the race ! ''
Then they told how Spotty reached the pond by clinging to the tip of Reddy Fox 's tail , and had hidden the other two nuts , and then how he had patiently crawled home while Billy Mink and Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit were hunting and hunting and hunting for the nuts they could not find .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Buster_Bear.txt.out
I BUSTER BEAR GOES FISHING Buster Bear yawned as he lay on his comfortable bed of leaves and watched the first early morning sunbeams creeping through the Green Forest to chase out the Black Shadows .
Once more he yawned , and slowly got to his feet and shook himself .
Then he walked over to a big pine-tree , stood up on his hind legs , reached as high up on the trunk of the tree as he could , and scratched the bark with his great claws .
After that he yawned until it seemed as if his jaws would crack , and then sat down to think what he wanted for breakfast .
While he sat there , trying to make up his mind what would taste best , he was listening to the sounds that told of the waking of all the little people who live in the Green Forest .
He heard Sammy Jay way off in the distance screaming , `` Thief !
Thief ! ''
and grinned .
`` I wonder , '' thought Buster , `` if some one has stolen Sammy 's breakfast , or if he has stolen the breakfast of some one else .
Probably he is the thief himself . ''
He heard Chatterer the Red Squirrel scolding as fast as he could make his tongue go and working himself into a terrible rage .
`` Must be that Chatterer got out of bed the wrong way this morning , '' thought he .
He heard Blacky the Crow cawing at the top of his lungs , and he knew by the sound that Blacky was getting into mischief of some kind .
He heard the sweet voices of happy little singers , and they were good to hear .
But most of all he listened to a merry , low , silvery laugh that never stopped but went on and on , until he just felt as if he must laugh too .
It was the voice of the Laughing Brook .
And as Buster listened it suddenly came to him just what he wanted for breakfast .
`` I 'm going fishing , '' said he in his deep grumbly-rumbly voice to no one in particular .
`` Yes , Sir , I 'm going fishing .
I want some fat trout for my breakfast . ''
He shuffled along over to the Laughing Brook , and straight to a little pool of which he knew , and as he drew near he took the greatest care not to make the teeniest , weeniest bit of noise .
Now it just happened that early as he was , some one was before Buster Bear .
When he came in sight of the little pool , who should he see but another fisherman there , who had already caught a fine fat trout .
Who was it ?
Why , Little Joe Otter to be sure .
He was just climbing up the bank with the fat trout in his mouth .
Buster Bear 's own mouth watered as he saw it .
Little Joe sat down on the bank and prepared to enjoy his breakfast .
He had n't seen Buster Bear , and he did n't know that he or any one else was anywhere near .
Buster Bear tiptoed up very softly until he was right behind Little Joe Otter .
`` Woof , woof ! ''
said he in his deepest , most grumbly-rumbly voice .
`` That 's a very fine looking trout .
I would n't mind if I had it myself . ''
Little Joe Otter gave a frightened squeal and without even turning to see who was speaking dropped his fish and dived headfirst into the Laughing Brook .
Buster Bear sprang forward and with one of his big paws caught the fat trout just as it was slipping back into the water .
`` Here 's your trout , Mr. Otter , '' said he , as Little Joe put his head out of water to see who had frightened him so .
`` Come and get it . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Here 's your trout , Mr. Otter , '' said he .
Page 5 .
-RSB- But Little Joe would n't .
The fact is , he was afraid to .
He snarled at Buster Bear and called him a thief and everything bad he could think of .
Buster did n't seem to mind .
He chuckled as if he thought it all a great joke and repeated his invitation to Little Joe to come and get his fish .
But Little Joe just turned his back and went off down the Laughing Brook in a great rage .
`` It 's too bad to waste such a fine fish , '' said Buster thoughtfully .
`` I wonder what I 'd better do with it . ''
And while he was wondering , he ate it all up .
Then he started down the Laughing Brook to try to catch some for himself .
II LITTLE JOE OTTER GETS EVEN WITH BUSTER BEAR Little Joe Otter was in a terrible rage .
It was a bad beginning for a beautiful day and Little Joe knew it .
But who would n't be in a rage if his breakfast was taken from him just as he was about to eat it ?
Anyway , that is what Little Joe told Billy Mink .
Perhaps he did n't tell it quite exactly as it was , but you know he was very badly frightened at the time .
`` I was sitting on the bank of the Laughing Brook beside one of the little pools , '' he told Billy Mink , `` and was just going to eat a fat trout I had caught , when who should come along but that great big bully , Buster Bear .
He took that fat trout away from me and ate it just as if it belonged to him !
I hate him !
If I live long enough I 'm going to get even with him ! ''
Of course that was n't nice talk and anything but a nice spirit , but Little Joe Otter 's temper is sometimes pretty short , especially when he is hungry , and this time he had had no breakfast , you know .
Buster Bear had n't actually taken the fish away from Little Joe .
But looking at the matter as Little Joe did , it amounted to the same thing .
You see , Buster knew perfectly well when he invited Little Joe to come back and get it that Little Joe would n't dare do anything of the kind .
`` Where is he now ? ''
asked Billy Mink .
`` He 's somewhere up the Laughing Brook .
I wish he 'd fall in and get drowned ! ''
snapped Little Joe .
Billy Mink just had to laugh .
The idea of great big Buster Bear getting drowned in the Laughing Brook was too funny .
There was n't water enough in it anywhere except down in the Smiling Pool , and that was on the Green Meadows , where Buster had never been known to go .
`` Let 's go see what he is doing , '' said Billy Mink .
At first Little Joe did n't want to , but at last his curiosity got the better of his fear , and he agreed .
So the two little brown-coated scamps turned down the Laughing Brook , taking the greatest care to keep out of sight themselves .
They had gone only a little way when Billy Mink whispered : `` Sh-h !
There he is . ''
Sure enough , there was Buster Bear sitting close beside a little pool and looking into it very intently .
`` What 's he doing ? ''
asked Little Joe Otter , as Buster Bear sat for the longest time without moving .
Just then one of Buster 's big paws went into the water as quick as a flash and scooped out a trout that had ventured too near .
`` He 's fishing ! ''
exclaimed Billy Mink .
And that is just what Buster Bear was doing , and it was very plain to see that he was having great fun .
When he had eaten the trout he had caught , he moved along to the next little pool .
`` They are our fish ! ''
said Little Joe fiercely .
`` He has no business catching our fish ! ''
`` I do n't see how we are going to stop him , '' said Billy Mink .
`` I do ! ''
cried Little Joe , into whose head an idea had just popped .
`` I 'm going to drive all the fish out of the little pools and muddy the water all up .
Then we 'll see how many fish he will get !
Just you watch me get even with Buster Bear . ''
Little Joe slipped swiftly into the water and swam straight to the little pool that Buster Bear would try next .
He frightened the fish so that they fled in every direction .
Then he stirred up the mud until the water was so dirty that Buster could n't have seen a fish right under his nose .
He did the same thing in the next pool and the next .
Buster Bear 's fishing was spoiled for that day .
III BUSTER BEAR IS GREATLY PUZZLED Buster Bear had n't enjoyed himself so much since he came to the Green Forest to live .
His fun began when he surprised Little Joe Otter on the bank of a little pool in the Laughing Brook and Little Joe was so frightened that he dropped a fat trout he had just caught .
It had seemed like a great joke to Buster Bear , and he had chuckled over it all the time he was eating the fat trout .
When he had finished it , he started on to do some fishing himself .
Presently he came to another little pool .
He stole up to it very , very softly , so as not to frighten the fish .
Then he sat down close to the edge of it and did n't move .
Buster learned a long time ago that a fisherman must be patient unless , like Little Joe Otter , he is just as much at home in the water as the fish themselves , and can swim fast enough to catch them by chasing them .
So he did n't move so much as an eye lash .
He was so still that he looked almost like the stump of an old tree .
Perhaps that is what the fish thought he was , for pretty soon , two or three swam right in close to where he was sitting .
Now Buster Bear may be big and clumsy looking , but there is n't anything that can move much quicker than one of those big paws of his when he wants it to .
One of them moved now , and quicker than a wink had scooped one of those foolish fish out on to the bank .
Buster 's little eyes twinkled , and he smacked his lips as he moved on to the next little pool , for he knew that it was of no use to stay longer at the first one .
The fish were so frightened that they would n't come back for a long , long time .
At the next little pool the same thing happened .
By this time Buster Bear was in fine spirits .
It was fun to catch the fish , and it was still more fun to eat them .
What finer breakfast could any one have than fresh-caught trout ?
No wonder he felt good !
But it takes more than three trout to fill Buster Bear 's stomach , so he kept on to the next little pool .
But this little pool , instead of being beautiful and clear so that Buster could see right to the bottom of it and so tell if there were any fish there , was so muddy that he could n't see into it at all .
It looked as if some one had just stirred up all the mud at the bottom .
`` Huh ! ''
said Buster Bear .
`` It 's of no use to try to fish here .
I would just waste my time .
I 'll try the next pool . ''
So he went on to the next little pool .
He found this just as muddy as the other .
Then he went on to another , and this was no better .
Buster sat down and scratched his head .
It was puzzling .
Yes , Sir , it was puzzling .
He looked this way and he looked that way suspiciously , but there was no one to be seen .
Everything was still save for the laughter of the Laughing Brook .
Somehow , it seemed to Buster as if the Brook were laughing at him .
`` It 's very curious , '' muttered Buster , `` very curious indeed .
It looks as if my fishing is spoiled for to-day .
I do n't understand it at all .
It 's lucky I caught what I did .
It looks as if somebody is trying to -- ha ! ''
A sudden thought had popped into his head .
Then he began to chuckle and finally to laugh .
`` I do believe that scamp Joe Otter is trying to get even with me for eating that fat trout ! ''
And then , because Buster Bear always enjoys a good joke even when it is on himself , he laughed until he had to hold his sides , which is a whole lot better than going off in a rage as Little Joe Otter had done .
`` You 're pretty smart , Mr. Otter !
You 're pretty smart , but there are other people who are smart too , '' said Buster Bear , and still chuckling , he went off to think up a plan to get the best of Little Joe Otter .
IV LITTLE JOE OTTER SUPPLIES BUSTER BEAR WITH A BREAKFAST Getting even just for spite Does n't always pay .
Fact is , it is very apt To work the other way .
That is just how it came about that Little Joe Otter furnished Buster Bear with the best breakfast he had had for a long time .
He did n't mean to do it .
Oh , my , no !
The truth is , he thought all the time that he was preventing Buster Bear from getting a breakfast .
You see he was n't well enough acquainted with Buster to know that Buster is quite as smart as he is , and perhaps a little bit smarter .
Spite and selfishness were at the bottom of it .
You see Little Joe and Billy Mink had had all the fishing in the Laughing Brook to themselves so long that they thought no one else had any right to fish there .
To be sure Bobby Coon caught a few little fish there , but they did n't mind Bobby .
Farmer Brown 's boy fished there too , sometimes , and this always made Little Joe and Billy Mink very angry , but they were so afraid of him that they did n't dare do anything about it .
But when they discovered that Buster Bear was a fisherman , they made up their minds that something had got to be done .
At least , Little Joe did .
`` He 'll try it again to-morrow morning , '' said Little Joe .
`` I 'll keep watch , and as soon as I see him coming , I 'll drive out all the fish , just as I did to-day .
I guess that 'll teach him to let our fish alone . ''
So the next morning Little Joe hid before daylight close by the little pool where Buster Bear had given him such a fright .
Sure enough , just as the Jolly Sunbeams began to creep through the Green Forest , he saw Buster Bear coming straight over to the little pool .
Little Joe slipped into the water and chased all the fish out of the little pool , and stirred up the mud on the bottom so that the water was so muddy that the bottom could n't be seen at all .
Then he hurried down to the next little pool and did the same thing .
Now Buster Bear is very smart .
You know he had guessed the day before who had spoiled his fishing .
So this morning he only went far enough to make sure that if Little Joe were watching for him , as he was sure he would be , he would see him coming .
Then , instead of keeping on to the little pool , he hurried to a place way down the Laughing Brook , where the water was very shallow , hardly over his feet , and there he sat chuckling to himself .
Things happened just as he had expected .
The frightened fish Little Joe chased out of the little pools up above swam down the Laughing Brook , because , you know , Little Joe was behind them , and there was nowhere else for them to go .
When they came to the place where Buster was waiting , all he had to do was to scoop them out on to the bank .
It was great fun .
It did n't take Buster long to catch all the fish he could eat .
Then he saved a nice fat trout and waited .
By and by along came Little Joe Otter , chuckling to think how he had spoiled Buster Bear 's fishing .
He was so intent on looking behind him to see if Buster was coming that he did n't see Buster waiting there until he spoke .
`` I 'm much obliged for the fine breakfast you have given me , '' said Buster in his deepest , most grumbly-rumbly voice .
`` I 've saved a fat trout for you to make up for the one I ate yesterday .
I hope we 'll go fishing together often . ''
Then he went off laughing fit to kill himself .
Little Joe could n't find a word to say .
He was so surprised and angry that he went off by himself and sulked .
And Billy Mink , who had been watching , ate the fat trout .
V GRANDFATHER FROG 'S COMMON-SENSE There is nothing quite like common sense to smooth out troubles .
People who have plenty of just plain common sense are often thought to be very wise .
Their neighbors look up to them and are forever running to them for advice , and they are very much respected .
That is the way with Grandfather Frog .
He is very old and very wise .
Anyway , that is what his neighbors think .
The truth is , he simply has a lot of common sense , which after all is the very best kind of wisdom .
Now when Little Joe Otter found that Buster Bear had been too smart for him and that instead of spoiling Buster 's fishing in the Laughing Brook he had really made it easier for Buster to catch all the fish he wanted , Little Joe went off down to the Smiling Pool in a great rage .
Billy Mink stopped long enough to eat the fat fish Buster had left on the bank and then he too went down to the Smiling Pool .
When Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink reached the Smiling Pool , they climbed up on the Big Rock , and there Little Joe sulked and sulked , until finally Grandfather Frog asked what the matter was .
Little Joe would n't tell , but Billy Mink told the whole story .
When he told how Buster had been too smart for Little Joe , it tickled him so that Billy had to laugh in spite of himself .
So did Grandfather Frog .
So did Jerry Muskrat , who had been listening .
Of course this made Little Joe angrier than ever .
He said a lot of unkind things about Buster Bear and about Billy Mink and Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat , because they had laughed at the smartness of Buster .
`` He 's nothing but a great big bully and thief ! ''
declared Little Joe .
`` Chug-a-rum !
He may be a bully , because great big people are very apt to be bullies , and though I have n't seen him , I guess Buster Bear is big enough from all I have heard , but I do n't see how he is a thief , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` Did n't he catch my fish and eat them ? ''
snapped Little Joe .
`` Does n't that make him a thief ? ''
`` They were no more your fish than mine , '' protested Billy Mink .
`` Well , our fish , then !
He stole our fish , if you like that any better .
That makes him just as much a thief , does n't it ? ''
growled Little Joe .
Grandfather Frog looked up at jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun and slowly winked one of his great , goggly eyes .
`` There comes a foolish green fly , '' said he .
`` Who does he belong to ? ''
`` Nobody ! ''
snapped Little Joe .
`` What have foolish green flies got to do with my -- I mean our fish ? ''
`` Nothing , nothing at all , '' replied Grandfather Frog mildly .
`` I was just hoping that he would come near enough for me to snap him up ; then he would belong to me .
As long as he does n't , he does n't belong to any one .
I suppose that if Buster Bear should happen along and catch him , he would be stealing from me , according to Little Joe . ''
`` Of course not !
What a silly idea !
You 're getting foolish in your old age , '' retorted Little Joe .
`` Can you tell me the difference between the fish that you have n't caught and the foolish green flies that I have n't caught ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
Little Joe could n't find a word to say .
`` You take my advice , Little Joe Otter , '' continued Grandfather Frog , `` and always make friends with those who are bigger and stronger and smarter than you are .
You 'll find it pays . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` You take my advice , Little Joe Otter , '' continued Grandfather Frog .
Page 26 .
-RSB- VI LITTLE JOE OTTER TAKES GRANDFATHER FROG 'S ADVICE Who makes an enemy a friend , To fear and worry puts an end .
Little Joe Otter found that out when he took Grandfather Frog 's advice .
He would n't have admitted that he was afraid of Buster Bear .
No one ever likes to admit being afraid , least of all Little Joe Otter .
And really Little Joe has a great deal of courage .
Very few of the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows would willingly quarrel with him , for Little Joe is a great fighter when he has to fight .
As for all those who live in or along the Laughing Brook or in the Smiling Pool , they let Little Joe have his own way in everything .
Now having one 's own way too much is a bad thing .
It is apt to make one selfish and thoughtless of other people and very hard to get along with .
Little Joe Otter had his way too much .
Grandfather Frog knew it and shook his head very soberly when Little Joe had been disrespectful to him .
`` Too bad .
Too bad !
Too bad !
Chug-a-rum !
It is too bad that such a fine young fellow as Little Joe should spoil a good disposition by such selfish heedlessness .
Too bad , '' said he .
So , though he did n't let on that it was so , Grandfather Frog really was delighted when he heard how Buster Bear had been too smart for Little Joe Otter .
It tickled him so that he had hard work to keep a straight face .
But he did and was as grave and solemn as you please as he advised Little Joe always to make friends with any one who was bigger and stronger and smarter than he .
That was good common sense advice , but Little Joe just sniffed and went off declaring that he would get even with Buster Bear yet .
Now Little Joe is good-natured and full of fun as a rule , and after he had reached home and his temper had cooled off a little , he began to see the joke on himself , -- how when he had worked so hard to frighten the fish in the little pools of the Laughing Brook so that Buster Bear should not catch any , he had all the time been driving them right into Buster 's paws .
By and by he grinned .
It was a little sheepish grin at first , but at last it grew into a laugh .
`` I believe , '' said Little Joe as he wiped tears of laughter from his eyes , `` that Grandfather Frog is right , and that the best thing I can do is to make friends with Buster Bear .
I 'll try it to-morrow morning . ''
So very early the next morning Little Joe Otter went to the best fishing pool he knew of in the Laughing Brook , and there he caught the biggest trout he could find .
It was so big and fat that it made Little Joe 's mouth water , for you know fat trout are his favorite food .
But he did n't take so much as one bite .
Instead he carefully laid it on an old log where Buster Bear would be sure to see it if he should come along that way .
Then he hid near by , where he could watch .
Buster was late that morning .
It seemed to Little Joe that he never would come .
Once he nearly lost the fish .
He had turned his head for just a minute , and when he looked back again , the trout was nowhere to be seen .
Buster could n't have stolen up and taken it , because such a big fellow could n't possibly have gotten out of sight again .
Little Joe darted over to the log and looked on the other side .
There was the fat trout , and there also was Little Joe 's smallest cousin , Shadow the Weasel , who is a great thief and altogether bad .
Little Joe sprang at him angrily , but Shadow was too quick and darted away .
Little Joe put the fish back on the log and waited .
This time he did n't take his eyes off it .
At last , when he was almost ready to give up , he saw Buster Bear shuffling along towards the Laughing Brook .
Suddenly Buster stopped and sniffed .
One of the Merry Little Breezes had carried the scent of that fat trout over to him .
Then he came straight over to where the fish lay , his nose wrinkling , and his eyes twinkling with pleasure .
`` Now I wonder who was so thoughtful as to leave this fine breakfast ready for me , '' said he out loud .
`` Me , '' said Little Joe in a rather faint voice .
`` I caught it especially for you . ''
`` Thank you , '' replied Buster , and his eyes twinkled more than ever .
`` I think we are going to be friends . ''
`` I -- I hope so , '' replied Little Joe .
VII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY HAS NO LUCK AT ALL Farmer Brown 's boy tramped through the Green Forest , whistling merrily .
He always whistles when he feels light-hearted , and he always feels light-hearted when he goes fishing .
You see , he is just as fond of fishing as is Little Joe Otter or Billy Mink or Buster Bear .
And now he was making his way through the Green Forest to the Laughing Brook , sure that by the time he had followed it down to the Smiling Pool he would have a fine lot of trout to take home .
He knew every pool in the Laughing Brook where the trout love to hide , did Farmer Brown 's boy , and it was just the kind of a morning when the trout should be hungry .
So he whistled as he tramped along , and his whistle was good to hear .
When he reached the first little pool he baited his hook very carefully and then , taking the greatest care to keep out of sight of any trout that might be in the little pool , he began to fish .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy learned a long time ago that to be a successful fisherman one must have a great deal of patience , so though he did n't get a bite right away as he had expected to , he was n't the least bit discouraged .
He kept very quiet and fished and fished , patiently waiting for a foolish trout to take his hook .
But he did n't get so much as a nibble .
`` Either the trout have lost their appetite or they have grown very wise , '' muttered Farmer Brown 's boy , as after a long time he moved on to the next little pool .
There the same thing happened .
He was very patient , very , very patient , but his patience brought no reward , not so much as the faintest kind of a nibble .
Farmer Brown 's boy trudged on to the next pool , and there was a puzzled frown on his freckled face .
Such a thing never had happened before .
He did n't know what to make of it .
All the night before he had dreamed about the delicious dinner of fried trout he would have the next day , and now -- well , if he did n't catch some trout pretty soon , that splendid dinner would never be anything but a dream .
`` If I did n't know that nobody else comes fishing here , I should think that somebody had been here this very morning and caught all the fish or else frightened them so that they are all in hiding , '' said he , as he trudged on to the next little pool .
`` I never had such bad luck in all my life before .
Hello !
What 's this ? ''
There , on the bank beside the little pool , were the heads of three trout .
Farmer Brown 's boy scowled down at them more puzzled than ever .
`` Somebody has been fishing here , and they have had better luck than I have , '' thought he .
He looked up the Laughing Brook and down the Laughing Brook and this way and that way , but no one was to be seen .
Then he picked up one of the little heads and looked at it sharply .
`` It was n't cut off with a knife ; it was bitten off ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` I wonder now if Billy Mink is the scamp who has spoiled my fun . ''
Thereafter he kept a sharp lookout for signs of Billy Mink , but though he found two or three more trout heads , he saw no other signs and he caught no fish .
This puzzled him more than ever .
It did n't seem possible that such a little fellow as Billy Mink could have caught or frightened all the fish or have eaten so many .
Besides , he did n't remember ever having known Billy to leave heads around that way .
Billy sometimes catches more fish than he can eat , but then he usually hides them .
The farther he went down the Laughing Brook , the more puzzled Farmer Brown 's boy grew .
It made him feel very queer .
He would have felt still more queer if he had known that all the time two other fishermen who had been before him were watching him and chuckling to themselves .
They were Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear .
VIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY FEELS HIS HAIR RISE 'T was just a sudden odd surprise Made Farmer Brown 's boy 's hair to rise .
That 's a funny thing for hair to do -- rise up all of a sudden -- is n't it ?
But that is just what the hair on Farmer Brown 's boy 's head did the day he went fishing in the Laughing Brook and had no luck at all .
There are just two things that make hair rise -- anger and fear .
Anger sometimes makes the hair on the back and neck of Bowser the Hound and of some other little people bristle and stand up , and you know the hair on the tail of Black Pussy stands on end until her tail looks twice as big as it really is .
Both anger and fear make it do that .
But there is only one thing that can make the hair on the head of Farmer Brown 's boy rise , and as it is n't anger , of course it must be fear .
It never had happened before .
You see , there is n't much of anything that Farmer Brown 's boy is really afraid of .
Perhaps he would n't have been afraid this time if it had n't been for the surprise of what he found .
You see when he had found the heads of those trout on the bank he knew right away that some one else had been fishing , and that was why he could n't catch any ; but it did n't seem possible that little Billy Mink could have eaten all those trout , and Farmer Brown 's boy did n't once think of Little Joe Otter , and so he was very , very much puzzled .
He was turning it all over in his mind and studying what it could mean , when he came to a little muddy place on the bank of the Laughing Brook , and there he saw something that made his eyes look as if they would pop right out of his head , and it was right then that he felt his hair rise .
Anyway , that is what he said when he told about it afterward .
What was it he saw ?
What do you think ?
Why , it was a footprint in the soft mud .
Yes , Sir , that 's what it was , and all it was .
But it was the biggest footprint Farmer Brown 's boy ever had seen , and it looked as if it had been made only a few minutes before .
It was the footprint of Buster Bear .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know that Buster Bear had come down to the Green Forest to live .
He never had heard of a Bear being in the Green Forest .
And so he was so surprised that he had hard work to believe his own eyes , and he had a queer feeling all over , -- a little chilly feeling , although it was a warm day .
Somehow , he did n't feel like meeting Buster Bear .
If he had had his terrible gun with him , it might have been different .
But he did n't , and so he suddenly made up his mind that he did n't want to fish any more that day .
He had a funny feeling , too , that he was being watched , although he could n't see any one .
He was being watched .
Little Joe Otter and Buster Bear were watching him and taking the greatest care to keep out of his sight .
All the way home through the Green Forest , Farmer Brown 's boy kept looking behind him , and he did n't draw a long breath until he reached the edge of the Green Forest .
He had n't run , but he had wanted to .
`` Huh ! ''
said Buster Bear to Little Joe Otter , `` I believe he was afraid ! ''
And Buster Bear was just exactly right .
IX LITTLE JOE OTTER HAS GREAT NEWS TO TELL Little Joe Otter was fairly bursting with excitement .
He could hardly contain himself .
He felt that he had the greatest news to tell since Peter Rabbit had first found the tracks of Buster Bear in the Green Forest .
He could n't keep it to himself a minute longer than he had to .
So he hurried to the Smiling Pool , where he was sure he would find Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat and Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , and he hoped that perhaps some of the little people who live in the Green Forest might be there too .
Sure enough , Peter Rabbit was there on one side of the Smiling Pool , making faces at Reddy Fox , who was on the other side , which , of course , was not at all nice of Peter .
Mr. and Mrs. Redwing were there , and Blacky the Crow was sitting in the Big Hickory-tree .
Little Joe Otter swam straight to the Big Rock and climbed up to the very highest part .
He looked so excited , and his eyes sparkled so , that every one knew right away that something had happened .
`` Hi ! ''
cried Billy Mink .
`` Look at Little Joe Otter !
It must be that for once he has been smarter than Buster Bear . ''
Little Joe made a good-natured face at Billy Mink and shook his head .
`` No , Billy , '' said he , `` you are wrong , altogether wrong .
I do n't believe anybody can be smarter than Buster Bear . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Reddy glared across the Smiling Pool at Peter .
Page 45 .
-RSB- Reddy Fox rolled his lips back in an unpleasant grin .
`` Do n't be too sure of that ! ''
he snapped .
`` I 'm not through with him yet . ''
`` Boaster !
Boaster ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit .
Reddy glared across the Smiling Pool at Peter .
`` I 'm not through with you either , Peter Rabbit ! ''
he snarled .
`` You 'll find it out one of these fine days ! ''
`` Reddy , Reddy , smart and sly , Could n't catch a buzzing fly ! ''
taunted Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog in his deepest , gruffest voice .
`` We know all about that .
What we want to know is what Little Joe Otter has got on his mind . ''
`` It 's news -- great news ! ''
cried Little Joe .
`` We can tell better how great it is when we hear what it is , '' replied Grandfather Frog testily .
`` What is it ? ''
Little Joe Otter looked around at all the eager faces watching him , and then in the slowest , most provoking way , he drawled : `` Farmer Brown 's boy is afraid of Buster Bear . ''
For a minute no one said a word .
Then Blacky the Crow leaned down from his perch in the Big Hickory-tree and looked very hard at Little Joe as he said : `` I do n't believe it .
I do n't believe a word of it .
Farmer Brown 's boy is n't afraid of any one who lives in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or in the Smiling Pool , and you know it .
We are all afraid of him . ''
Little Joe glared back at Blacky .
`` I do n't care whether you believe it or not ; it 's true , '' he retorted .
Then he told how early that very morning he and Buster Bear had been fishing together in the Laughing Brook , and how Farmer Brown 's boy had been fishing there too , and had n't caught a single trout because they had all been caught or frightened before he got there .
Then he told how Farmer Brown 's boy had found a footprint of Buster Bear in the soft mud , and how he had stopped fishing right away and started for home , looking behind him with fear in his eyes all the way .
`` Now tell me that he is n't afraid ! ''
concluded Little Joe .
`` For once he knows just how we feel when he comes prowling around where we are .
Is n't that great news ?
Now we 'll get even with him ! ''
`` I 'll believe it when I see it for myself ! ''
snapped Blacky the Crow .
X BUSTER BEAR BECOMES A HERO The news that Little Joe Otter told at the Smiling Pool , -- how Farmer Brown 's boy had run away from Buster Bear without even seeing him , -- soon spread all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , until every one who lives there knew about it .
Of course , Peter Rabbit helped spread it .
Trust Peter for that !
But everybody else helped too .
You see , they had all been afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy for so long that they were tickled almost to pieces at the very thought of having some one in the Green Forest who could make Farmer Brown 's boy feel fear as they had felt it .
And so it was that Buster Bear became a hero right away to most of them .
A few doubted Little Joe 's story .
One of them was Blacky the Crow .
Another was Reddy Fox .
Blacky doubted because he knew Farmer Brown 's boy so well that he could n't imagine him afraid .
Reddy doubted because he did n't want to believe .
You see , he was jealous of Buster Bear , and at the same time he was afraid of him .
So Reddy pretended not to believe a word of what Little Joe Otter had said , and he agreed with Blacky that only by seeing Farmer Brown 's boy afraid could he ever be made to believe it .
But nearly everybody else believed it , and there was great rejoicing .
Most of them were afraid of Buster , very much afraid of him , because he was so big and strong .
But they were still more afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy , because they did n't know him or understand him , and because in the past he had tried to catch some of them in traps and had hunted some of them with his terrible gun .
So now they were very proud to think that one of their own number actually had frightened him , and they began to look on Buster Bear as a real hero .
They tried in ever so many ways to show him how friendly they felt and went quite out of their way to do him favors .
Whenever they met one another , all they could talk about was the smartness and the greatness of Buster Bear .
`` Now I guess Farmer Brown 's boy will keep away from the Green Forest , and we wo n't have to be all the time watching out for him , '' said Bobby Coon , as he washed his dinner in the Laughing Brook , for you know he is very neat and particular .
`` And he wo n't dare set any more traps for me , '' gloated Billy Mink .
`` Ah wish Brer Bear would go up to Farmer Brown 's henhouse and scare Farmer Brown 's boy so that he would keep away from there .
It would be a favor to me which Ah cert ` nly would appreciate , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum when he heard the news .
`` Let 's all go together and tell Buster Bear how much obliged we are for what he has done , '' proposed Jerry Muskrat .
`` That 's a splendid idea ! ''
cried Little Joe Otter .
`` We 'll do it right away . ''
`` Caw , caw caw ! ''
broke in Blacky the Crow .
`` I say , let 's wait and see for ourselves if it is all true . ''
`` Of course it 's true ! ''
snapped Little Joe Otter .
`` Do n't you believe I 'm telling the truth ? ''
`` Certainly , certainly .
Of course no one doubts your word , '' replied Blacky , with the utmost politeness .
`` But you say yourself that Farmer Brown 's boy did n't see Buster Bear , but only his footprint .
Perhaps he did n't know whose it was , and if he had he would n't have been afraid .
Now I 've got a plan by which we can see for ourselves if he really is afraid of Buster Bear . ''
`` What is it ? ''
asked Sammy Jay eagerly .
Blacky the Crow shook his head and winked .
`` That 's telling , '' said he .
`` I want to think it over .
If you meet me at the Big Hickory-tree at sun-up to-morrow morning , and get everybody else to come that you can , perhaps I will tell you . ''
XI BLACKY THE CROW TELLS HIS PLAN Blacky is a dreamer !
Blacky is a schemer !
His voice is strong ; When things go wrong Blacky is a screamer !
It 's a fact .
Blacky the Crow is forever dreaming and scheming and almost always it is of mischief .
He is one of the smartest and cleverest of all the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and all the others know it .
Blacky likes excitement .
He wants something going on .
The more exciting it is , the better he likes it .
Then he has a chance to use that harsh voice of his , and how he does use it !
So now , as he sat in the top of the Big Hickory-tree beside the Smiling Pool and looked down on all the little people gathered there , he was very happy .
In the first place he felt very important , and you know Blacky dearly loves to feel important .
They had all come at his invitation to listen to a plan for seeing for themselves if it were really true that Farmer Brown 's boy was afraid of Buster Bear .
On the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool sat Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , and Jerry Muskrat .
On his big , green lily-pad sat Grandfather Frog .
On another lily-pad sat Spotty the Turtle .
On the bank on one side of the Smiling Pool were Peter Rabbit , Jumper the Hare , Danny Meadow Mouse , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , Striped Chipmunk and Old Mr. Toad .
On the other side of the Smiling Pool were Reddy Fox , Digger the Badger , and Bobby Coon .
In the Big Hickory-tree were Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Sammy Jay .
Blacky waited until he was sure that no one else was coming .
Then he cleared his throat very loudly and began to speak .
`` Friends , '' said he .
Everybody grinned , for Blacky has played so many sharp tricks that no one is really his friend unless it is that other mischief-maker , Sammy Jay , who , you know , is Blacky 's cousin .
But no one said anything , and Blacky went on .
`` Little Joe Otter has told us how he saw Farmer Brown 's boy hurry home when he found the footprint of Buster Bear on the edge of the Laughing Brook , and how all the way he kept looking behind him , as if he were afraid .
Perhaps he was , and then again perhaps he was n't .
Perhaps he had something else on his mind .
You have made a hero of Buster Bear , because you believe Little Joe 's story .
Now I do n't say that I do n't believe it , but I do say that I will be a lot more sure that Farmer Brown 's boy is afraid of Buster when I see him run away myself .
Now here is my plan : `` To-morrow morning , very early , Sammy Jay and I will make a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest .
Farmer Brown 's boy has a lot of curiosity , and he will be sure to come over to see what it is all about .
Then we will lead him to where Buster Bear is .
If he runs away , I will be the first to admit that Buster Bear is as great a hero as some of you seem to think he is .
It is a very simple plan , and if you will all hide where you can watch , you will be able to see for yourselves if Little Joe Otter is right .
Now what do you say ? ''
Right away everybody began to talk at the same time .
It was such a simple plan that everybody agreed to it .
And it promised to be so exciting that everybody promised to be there , that is , everybody but Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle , who did n't care to go so far away from the Smiling Pool .
So it was agreed that Blacky should try his plan the very next morning .
XII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR GROW CURIOUS Ever since it was light enough to see at all , Blacky the Crow had been sitting in the top of the tallest tree on the edge of the Green Forest nearest to Farmer Brown 's house , and never for an instant had he taken his eyes from Farmer Brown 's back door .
What was he watching for ?
Why , for Farmer Brown 's boy to come out on his way to milk the cows .
Meanwhile , Sammy Jay was slipping silently through the Green Forest , looking for Buster Bear , so that when the time came he could let his cousin , Blacky the Crow , know just where Buster was .
By and by the back door of Farmer Brown 's house opened , and out stepped Farmer Brown 's boy .
In each hand he carried a milk pail .
Right away Blacky began to scream at the top of his lungs .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
And all the time he flew about among the trees near the edge of the Green Forest as if so excited that he could n't keep still .
Farmer Brown 's boy looked over there as if he wondered what all that fuss was about , as indeed he did , but he did n't start to go over and see .
No , Sir , he started straight for the barn .
Blacky did n't know what to make of it .
You see , smart as he is and shrewd as he is , Blacky does n't know anything about the meaning of duty , for he never has to work excepting to get enough to eat .
So , when Farmer Brown 's boy started for the barn instead of for the Green Forest , Blacky did n't know what to make of it .
He screamed harder and louder than ever , until his voice grew so hoarse he could n't scream any more , but Farmer Brown 's boy kept right on to the barn .
`` I 'd like to know what you 're making such a fuss about , Mr. Crow , but I 've got to feed the cows and milk them first , '' said he .
Now all this time the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows had been hiding where they could see all that went on .
When Farmer Brown 's boy disappeared in the barn , Chatterer the Red Squirrel snickered right out loud .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
This is a great plan of yours , Blacky !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
he shouted .
Blacky could n't find a word to say .
He just hung his head , which is something Blacky seldom does .
`` Perhaps if we wait until he comes out again , he will come over here , '' said Sammy Jay , who had joined Blacky .
So it was decided to wait .
It seemed as if Farmer Brown 's boy never would come out , but at last he did .
Blacky and Sammy Jay at once began to scream and make all the fuss they could .
Farmer Brown 's boy took the two pails of milk into the house , then out he came and started straight for the Green Forest .
He was so curious to know what it all meant that he could n't wait another minute .
Now there was some one else with a great deal of curiosity also .
He had heard the screaming of Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , and he had listened until he could n't stand it another minute .
He just had to know what it was all about .
So at the same time Farmer Brown 's boy started for the Green Forest , this other listener started towards the place where Blacky and Sammy were making such a racket .
He walked very softly so as not to make a sound .
It was Buster Bear .
XIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY AND BUSTER BEAR MEET If you should meet with Buster Bear While walking through the wood , What would you do ?
Now tell me true , I 'd run the best I could .
That is what Farmer Brown 's boy did when he met Buster Bear , and a lot of the little people of the Green Forest and some from the Green Meadows saw him .
When Farmer Brown 's boy came hurrying home from the Laughing Brook without any fish one day and told about the great footprint he had seen in a muddy place on the bank deep in the Green Forest , and had said his was sure that it was the footprint of a Bear , he had been laughed at .
Farmer Brown had laughed and laughed .
`` Why , '' said he , `` there has n't been a Bear in the Green Forest for years and years and years , not since my own grandfather was a little boy , and that , you know , was a long , long , long time ago .
If you want to find Mr. Bear , you will have to go to the Great Woods .
I do n't know who made that footprint , but it certainly could n't have been a Bear .
I think you must have imagined it . ''
Then he had laughed some more , all of which goes to show how easy it is to be mistaken , and how foolish it is to laugh at things you really do n't know about .
Buster Bear had come to live in the Green Forest , and Farmer Brown 's boy had seen his footprint .
But Farmer Brown laughed so much and made fun of him so much , that at last his boy began to think that he must have been mistaken after all .
So when he heard Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay making a great fuss near the edge of the Green Forest , he never once thought of Buster Bear , as he started over to see what was going on .
When Blacky and Sammy saw him coming , they moved a little farther in to the Green Forest , still screaming in the most excited way .
They felt sure that Farmer Brown 's boy would follow them , and they meant to lead him to where Sammy had seen Buster Bear that morning .
Then they would find out for sure if what Little Joe Otter had said was true , -- that Farmer Brown 's boy really was afraid of Buster Bear .
Now all around , behind trees and stumps , and under thick branches , and even in tree tops , were other little people watching with round , wide-open eyes to see what would happen .
It was very exciting , the most exciting thing they could remember .
You see , they had come to believe that Farmer Brown 's boy was n't afraid of anybody or anything , and as most of them were very much afraid of him , they had hard work to believe that he would really be afraid of even such a great , big , strong fellow as Buster Bear .
Every one was so busy watching Farmer Brown 's boy that no one saw Buster coming from the other direction .
You see , Buster walked very softly .
Big as he is , he can walk without making the teeniest , weeniest sound .
And that is how it happened that no one saw him or heard him until just as Farmer Brown 's boy stepped out from behind one side of a thick little hemlock-tree , Buster Bear stepped out from behind the other side of that same little tree , and there they were face to face !
Then everybody held their breath , even Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay .
For just a little minute it was so still there in the Green Forest that not the least little sound could be heard .
What was going to happen ?
XIV A SURPRISING THING HAPPENS Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , looking down from the top of a tall tree , held their breath .
Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel and his cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , looking down from another tree , held their breath .
Unc ' Billy Possum , sticking his head out from a hollow tree , held his breath .
Bobby Coon , looking through a hole in a hollow stump in which he was hiding , held his breath .
Reddy Fox , lying flat down behind a heap of brush , held his breath .
Peter Rabbit , sitting bolt upright under a thick hemlock branch , with eyes and ears wide open , held his breath .
And all the other little people who happened to be where they could see did the same thing .
You see , it was the most exciting moment ever was in the Green Forest .
Farmer Brown 's boy had just stepped out from behind one side of a little hemlock-tree and Buster Bear had just stepped out from behind the opposite side of the little hemlock-tree and neither had known that the other was anywhere near .
For a whole minute they stood there face to face , gazing into each other 's eyes , while everybody watched and waited , and it seemed as if the whole Green Forest was holding its breath .
Then something happened .
Yes , Sir , something happened .
Farmer Brown 's boy opened his mouth and yelled !
It was such a sudden yell and such a loud yell that it startled Chatterer so that he nearly fell from his place in the tree , and it made Reddy Fox jump to his feet ready to run .
And that yell was a yell of fright .
There was no doubt about it , for with the yell Farmer Brown 's boy turned and ran for home , as no one ever had seen him run before .
He ran just as Peter Rabbit runs when he has got to reach the dear Old Briar-patch before Reddy Fox can catch him , which , you know , is as fast as he can run .
Once he stumbled and fell , but he scrambled to his feet in a twinkling , and away he went without once turning his head to see if Buster Bear was after him .
There was n't any doubt that he was afraid , very much afraid .
Everybody leaned forward to watch him .
`` What did I tell you ?
Did n't I say that he was afraid of Buster Bear ? ''
cried Little Joe Otter , dancing about with excitement .
`` You were right , Little Joe !
I 'm sorry that I doubted it .
See him go !
Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shrieked Blacky the Crow .
For a minute or two everybody forgot about Buster Bear .
Then there was a great crash which made everybody turn to look the other way .
What do you think they saw ?
Why , Buster Bear was running away too , and he was running twice as fast as Farmer Brown 's boy !
He bumped into trees and crashed through bushes and jumped over logs , and in almost no time at all he was out of sight .
Altogether it was the most surprising thing that the little people of the Green Forest ever had seen .
-LSB- Illustration : Buster Bear was running away , too .
Page 71 . -RSB-
Sammy Jay looked at Blacky the Crow , and Blacky looked at Chatterer , and Chatterer looked at Happy Jack , and Happy Jack looked at Peter Rabbit , and Peter looked at Unc ' Billy Possum , and Unc ' Billy looked at Bobby Coon , and Bobby looked at Johnny Chuck , and Johnny looked at Reddy Fox , and Reddy looked at Jimmy Skunk , and Jimmy looked at Billy Mink , and Billy looked at Little Joe Otter , and for a minute nobody could say a word .
Then Little Joe gave a funny little gasp .
`` Why , why-e-e ! ''
said he , `` I believe Buster Bear is afraid too ! ''
Unc ' Billy Possum chuckled .
`` Ah believe yo ' are right again , Brer Otter , '' said he .
`` It cert ` nly does look so .
If Brer Bear is n't scared , he must have remembered something impo ` tant and has gone to attend to it in a powerful hurry . ''
Then everybody began to laugh .
XV BUSTER BEAR IS A FALLEN HERO A fallen hero is some one to whom every one has looked up as very brave and then proves to be less brave than he was supposed to be .
That was the way with Buster Bear .
When Little Joe Otter had told how Farmer Brown 's boy had been afraid at the mere sight of one of Buster Bear 's big footprints , they had at once made a hero of Buster .
At least some of them had .
As this was the first time , the very first time , that they had ever known any one who lives in the Green Forest to make Farmer Brown 's boy run away , they looked on Buster Bear with a great deal of respect and were very proud of him .
But now they had seen Buster Bear and Farmer Brown 's boy meet face to face ; and while it was true that Farmer Brown 's boy had run away as fast as ever he could , it was also true that Buster Bear had done the same thing .
He had run even faster than Farmer Brown 's boy , and had hidden in the most lonely place he could find in the very deepest part of the Green Forest .
It was hard to believe , but it was true .
And right away everybody lost a great deal of the respect for Buster which they had felt .
It is always that way .
They began to say unkind things about him .
They said them among themselves , and some of them even said them to Buster when they met him , or said them so that he would hear them .
Of course Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay , who , because they can fly , have nothing to fear from Buster , and who always delight in making other people uncomfortable , never let a chance go by to tell Buster and everybody else within hearing what they thought of him .
They delighted in flying about through the Green Forest until they had found Buster Bear and then from the safety of the tree tops screaming at him .
`` Buster Bear is big and strong ; His teeth are big ; his claws are long ; In spite of these he runs away And hides himself the livelong day ! ''
A dozen times a day Buster would hear them screaming this .
He would grind his teeth and glare up at them , but that was all he could do .
He could n't get at them .
He just had to stand it and do nothing .
But when impudent little Chatterer the Red Squirrel shouted the same thing from a place just out of reach in a big pine-tree , Buster could stand it no longer .
He gave a deep , angry growl that made little shivers run over Chatterer , and then suddenly he started up that tree after Chatterer .
With a frightened little shriek Chatterer scampered to the top of the tree .
He had n't known that Buster could climb .
But Buster is a splendid climber , especially when the tree is big and stout as this one was , and now he went up after Chatterer , growling angrily .
How Chatterer did wish that he had kept his tongue still !
He ran to the very top of the tree , so frightened that his teeth chattered , and when he looked down and saw Buster 's great mouth coming nearer and nearer , he nearly tumbled down with terror .
The worst of it was there was n't another tree near enough for him to jump to .
He was in trouble this time , was Chatterer , sure enough !
And there was no one to help him .
XVI CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL JUMPS FOR HIS LIFE It is n't very often that Chatterer the Red Squirrel knows fear .
That is one reason that he is so often impudent and saucy .
But once in a while a great fear takes possession of him , as when he knows that Shadow the Weasel is looking for him .
You see , he knows that Shadow can go wherever he can go .
There are very few of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who do not know fear at some time or other , but it comes to Chatterer as seldom as to any one , because he is very sure of himself and his ability to hide or run away from danger .
But now as he clung to a little branch near the top of a tall pine-tree in the Green Forest and looked down at the big sharp teeth of Buster Bear drawing nearer and nearer , and listened to the deep , angry growls that made his hair stand on end , Chatterer was too frightened to think .
If only he had kept his tongue still instead of saying hateful things to Buster Bear !
If only he had known that Buster could climb a tree !
If only he had chosen a tree near enough to other trees for him to jump across !
But he had said hateful things , he had chosen to sit in a tree which stood quite by itself , and Buster Bear could climb !
Chatterer was in the worst kind of trouble , and there was no one to blame but himself .
That is usually the case with those who get into trouble .
Nearer and nearer came Buster Bear , and deeper and angrier sounded his voice .
Chatterer gave a little frightened gasp and looked this way and looked that way .
What should he do ?
What could he do !
The ground seemed a terrible distance below .
If only he had wings like Sammy Jay !
But he had n't .
`` Gr-r-r-r ! ''
growled Buster Bear .
`` I 'll teach you manners !
I 'll teach you to treat your betters with respect !
I 'll swallow you whole , that 's what I 'll do .
Gr-r-r-r ! ''
`` Oh ! ''
cried Chatterer .
`` Gr-r-r-r !
I 'll eat you all up to the last hair on your tail ! ''
growled Buster , scrambling a little nearer .
`` Oh !
Oh ! ''
cried Chatterer , and ran out to the very tip of the little branch to which he had been clinging .
Now if Chatterer had only known it , Buster Bear could n't reach him way up there , because the tree was too small at the top for such a big fellow as Buster .
But Chatterer did n't think of that .
He gave one more frightened look down at those big teeth , then he shut his eyes and jumped -- jumped straight out for the far-away ground .
It was a long , long , long way down to the ground , and it certainly looked as if such a little fellow as Chatterer must be killed .
But Chatterer had learned from Old Mother Nature that she had given him certain things to help him at just such times , and one of them is the power to spread himself very flat .
He did it now .
He spread his arms and legs out just as far as he could , and that kept him from falling as fast and as hard as he otherwise would have done , because being spread out so flat that way , the air held him up a little .
And then there was his tail , that funny little tail he is so fond of jerking when he scolds .
This helped him too .
It helped him keep his balance and keep from turning over and over .
Down , down , down he sailed and landed on his feet .
Of course , he hit the ground pretty hard , and for just a second he quite lost his breath .
But it was only for a second , and then he was scurrying off as fast as a frightened Squirrel could .
Buster Bear watched him and grinned .
`` I did n't catch him that time , '' he growled , `` but I guess I gave him a good fright and taught him a lesson . ''
XVII BUSTER BEAR GOES BERRYING Buster Bear is a great hand to talk to himself when he thinks no one is around to overhear .
It 's a habit .
However , it is n't a bad habit unless it is carried too far .
Any habit becomes bad , if it is carried too far .
Suppose you had a secret , a real secret , something that nobody else knew and that you did n't want anybody else to know .
And suppose you had the habit of talking to yourself .
You might , without thinking , you know , tell that secret out loud to yourself , and some one might , just might happen to overhear !
Then there would n't be any secret .
That is the way that a habit which is n't bad in itself can become bad when it is carried too far .
Now Buster Bear had lived by himself in the Great Woods so long that this habit of talking to himself had grown and grown .
He did it just to keep from being lonesome .
Of course , when he came down to the Green Forest to live , he brought all his habits with him .
That is one thing about habits , -- you always take them with you wherever you go .
So Buster brought this habit of talking to himself down to the Green Forest , where he had many more neighbors than he had in the Great Woods .
`` Let me see , let me see , what is there to tempt my appetite ? ''
said Buster in his deep , grumbly-rumbly voice .
`` I find my appetite is n't what it ought to be .
I need a change .
Yes , Sir , I need a change .
There is something I ought to have at this time of year , and I have n't got it .
There is something that I used to have and do n't have now .
Ha !
I know !
I need some fresh fruit .
That 's it -- fresh fruit !
It must be about berry time now , and I 'd forgotten all about it .
My , my , my , how good some berries would taste !
Now if I were back up there in the Great Woods I could have all I could eat .
Um-m-m-m !
Makes my mouth water just to think of it .
There ought to be some up in the Old Pasture .
There ought to be a lot of 'em up there .
If I was n't afraid that some one would see me , I 'd go up there . ''
Buster sighed .
Then he sighed again .
The more he thought about those berries he felt sure were growing in the Old Pasture , the more he wanted some .
It seemed to him that never in all his life had he wanted berries as he did now .
He wandered about uneasily .
He was hungry -- hungry for berries and nothing else .
By and by he began talking to himself again .
`` If I was n't afraid of being seen , I 'd go up to the Old Pasture this very minute .
Seems as if I could taste those berries . ''
He licked his lips hungrily as he spoke .
Then his face brightened .
`` I know what I 'll do !
I 'll go up there at the very first peep of day to-morrow .
I can eat all I want and get back to the Green Forest before there is any danger that Farmer Brown 's boy or any one else I 'm afraid of will see me .
That 's just what I 'll do .
My , I wish to-morrow morning would hurry up and come . ''
Now though Buster did n't know it , some one had been listening , and that some one was none other than Sammy Jay .
When at last Buster lay down for a nap , Sammy flew away , chuckling to himself .
`` I believe I 'll visit the Old Pasture to-morrow morning myself , '' thought he .
`` I have an idea that something interesting may happen if Buster does n't change his mind . ''
Sammy was on the lookout very early the next morning .
The first Jolly Little Sunbeams had only reached the Green Meadows and had not started to creep into the Green Forest , when he saw a big , dark form steal out of the Green Forest where it joins the Old Pasture .
It moved very swiftly and silently , as if in a great hurry .
Sammy knew who it was : it was Buster Bear , and he was going berrying .
Sammy waited a little until he could see better .
Then he too started for the Old Pasture .
XVIII SOMEBODY ELSE GOES BERRYING Is n't it funny how two people will often think of the same thing at the same time , and neither one know that the other is thinking of it ?
That is just what happened the day that Buster Bear first thought of going berrying .
While he was walking around in the Green Forest , talking to himself about how hungry he was for some berries and how sure he was that there must be some up in the Old Pasture , some one else was thinking about berries and about the Old Pasture too .
`` Will you make me a berry pie if I will get the berries to-morrow ? ''
asked Farmer Brown 's boy of his mother .
Of course Mrs. Brown promised that she would , and so that night Farmer Brown 's boy went to bed very early that he might get up early in the morning , and all night long he dreamed of berries and berry pies .
He was awake even before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun thought it was time to get up , and he was all ready to start for the Old Pasture when the first Jolly Little Sunbeams came dancing across the Green Meadows .
He carried a big tin pail , and in the bottom of it , wrapped up in a piece of paper , was a lunch , for he meant to stay until he filled that pail , if it took all day .
Now the Old Pasture is very large .
It lies at the foot of the Big Mountain , and even extends a little way up on the Big Mountain .
There is room in it for many people to pick berries all day without even seeing each other , unless they roam about a great deal .
You see , the bushes grow very thick there , and you can not see very far in any direction .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had climbed a little way up in the sky by the time Farmer Brown 's boy reached the Old Pasture , and was smiling down on all the Great World , and all the Great World seemed to be smiling back .
Farmer Brown 's boy started to whistle , and then he stopped .
`` If I whistle , '' thought he , `` everybody will know just where I am , and will keep out of sight , and I never can get acquainted with folks if they keep out of sight . ''
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy was just beginning to understand something that Peter Rabbit and the other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest learned almost as soon as they learned to walk , -- that if you do n't want to be seen , you must n't be heard .
So he did n't whistle as he felt like doing , and he tried not to make a bit of noise as he followed an old cow-path towards a place where he knew the berries grew thick and oh , so big , and all the time he kept his eyes wide open , and he kept his ears open too .
That is how he happened to hear a little cry , a very faint little cry .
If he had been whistling , he would n't have heard it at all .
He stopped to listen .
He never had heard a cry just like it before .
At first he could n't make out just what it was or where it came from .
But one thing he was sure of , and that was that it was a cry of fright .
He stood perfectly still and listened with all his might .
There it was again -- `` Help !
Help !
Help '' -- and it was very faint and sounded terribly frightened .
He waited a minute or two , but heard nothing more .
Then he put down his pail and began a hurried look here , there , and everywhere .
He was sure that it had come from somewhere on the ground , so he peered behind bushes and peeped behind logs and stones , and then just as he had about given up hope of finding where it came from , he went around a little turn in the old cow-path , and there right in front of him was little Mr. Gartersnake , and what do you think he was doing ?
Well , I do n't like to tell you , but he was trying to swallow one of the children of Stickytoes the Tree Toad .
Of course Farmer Brown 's Boy did n't let him .
He made little Mr. Gartersnake set Master Stickytoes free and held Mr. Gartersnake until Master Stickytoes was safely out of reach .
XIX BUSTER BEAR HAS A FINE TIME Buster Bear was having the finest time he had had since he came down from the Great Woods to live in the Green Forest .
To be sure , he was n't in the Green Forest now , but he was n't far from it .
He was in the Old Pasture , one edge of which touches one edge of the Green Forest .
And where do you think he was , in the Old Pasture ?
Why , right in the middle of the biggest patch of the biggest blueberries he ever had seen in all his life !
Now if there is any one thing that Buster Bear had rather have above another , it is all the berries he can eat , unless it be honey .
Nothing can quite equal honey in Buster 's mind .
But next to honey give him berries .
He is n't particular what kind of berries .
Raspberries , blackberries , or blueberries , either kind , will make him perfectly happy .
`` Um-m-m , my , my , but these are good ! ''
he mumbled in his deep grumbly-rumbly voice , as he sat on his haunches stripping off the berries greedily .
His little eyes twinkled with enjoyment , and he did n't mind at all if now and then he got leaves , and some green berries in his mouth with the big ripe berries .
He did n't try to get them out .
Oh , my , no !
He just chomped them all up together and patted his stomach from sheer delight .
Now Buster had reached the Old Pasture just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had crept out of bed , and he had fully made up his mind that he would be back in the Green Forest before Mr. Sun had climbed very far up in the blue , blue sky .
You see , big as he is and strong as he is , Buster Bear is very shy and bashful , and he has no desire to meet Farmer Brown , or Farmer Brown 's boy , or any other of those two-legged creatures called men .
It seems funny but he actually is afraid of them .
And he had a feeling that he was a great deal more likely to meet one of them in the Old Pasture than deep in the Green Forest .
So when he started to look for berries , he made up his mind that he would eat what he could in a great hurry and get back to the Green Forest before Farmer Brown 's boy was more than out of bed .
But when he found those berries he was so hungry that he forgot his fears and everything else .
They tasted so good that he just had to eat and eat and eat .
Now you know that Buster is a very big fellow , and it takes a lot to fill him up .
He kept eating and eating and eating , and the more he ate the more he wanted .
You know how it is .
So he wandered from one patch of berries to another in the Old Pasture , and never once thought of the time .
Somehow , time is the hardest thing in the world to remember , when you are having a good time .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climbed higher and higher in the blue , blue sky .
He looked down on all the Great World and saw all that was going on .
He saw Buster Bear in the Old Pasture , and smiled as he saw what a perfectly glorious time Buster was having .
And he saw something else in the Old Pasture that made his smile still broader .
He saw Farmer Brown 's boy filling a great tin pail with blueberries , and he knew that Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know that Buster Bear was anywhere about , and he knew that Buster Bear did n't know that Farmer Brown 's boy was anywhere about , and somehow he felt very sure that he would see something funny happen if they should chance to meet .
`` Um-m-m , um-m-m , '' mumbled Buster Bear with his mouth full , as he moved along to another patch of berries .
And then he gave a little gasp of surprise and delight .
Right in front of him was a shiny thing just full of the finest , biggest , bluest berries !
There were no leaves or green ones there .
Buster blinked his greedy little eyes rapidly and looked again .
No , he was n't dreaming .
They were real berries , and all he had got to do was to help himself .
Buster looked sharply at the shiny thing that held the berries .
It seemed perfectly harmless .
He reached out a big paw and pushed it gently .
It tipped over and spilled out a lot of the berries .
Yes , it was perfectly harmless .
Buster gave a little sigh of pure happiness .
He would eat those berries to the last one , and then he would go home to the Green Forest .
XX BUSTER BEAR CARRIES OFF THE PAIL OF FARMER BROWN 'S BOY The question is , did Buster Bear steal Farmer Brown 's boy 's pail ?
To steal is to take something which belongs to some one else .
There is no doubt that he stole the berries that were in the pail when he found it , for he deliberately ate them .
He knew well enough that some one must have picked them -- for whoever heard of blueberries growing in tin pails ?
So there is no doubt that when Buster took them , he stole them .
But with the pail it was different .
He took the pail , but he did n't mean to take it .
In fact , he did n't want that pail at all .
You see it was this way : When Buster found that big tin pail brimming full of delicious berries in the shade of that big bush in the Old Pasture , he did n't stop to think whether or not he had a right to them .
Buster is so fond of berries that from the very second that his greedy little eyes saw that pailful , he forgot everything but the feast that was waiting for him right under his very nose .
He did n't think anything about the right or wrong of helping himself .
There before him were more berries than he had ever seen together at one time in all his life , and all he had to do was to eat and eat and eat .
And that is just what he did do .
Of course he upset the pail , but he did n't mind a little thing like that .
When he had gobbled up all the berries that rolled out , he thrust his nose into the pail to get all that were left in it .
Just then he heard a little noise , as if some one were coming .
He threw up his head to listen , and somehow , he never did know just how , the handle of the pail slipped back over his ears and caught there .
This was bad enough , but to make matters worse , just at that very minute he heard a shrill , angry voice shout , `` Hi , there !
Get out of there ! ''
He did n't need to be told whose voice that was .
It was the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Right then and there Buster Bear nearly had a fit .
There was that awful pail fast over his head so that he could n't see a thing .
Of course , that meant that he could n't run away , which was the thing of all things he most wanted to do , for big as he is and strong as he is , Buster is very shy and bashful when human beings are around .
He growled and whined and squealed .
He tried to back out of the pail and could n't .
He tried to shake it off and could n't .
He tried to pull it off , but somehow he could n't get hold of it .
Then there was another yell .
If Buster had n't been so frightened himself , he might have recognized that second yell as one of fright , for that is what it was .
You see Farmer Brown 's boy had just discovered Buster Bear .
When he had yelled the first time , he had supposed that it was one of the young cattle who live in the Old Pasture all summer , but when he saw Buster , he was just as badly frightened as Buster himself .
In fact , he was too surprised and frightened even to run .
After that second yell he just stood still and stared .
Buster clawed at that awful thing on his head more frantically than ever .
Suddenly it slipped off , so that he could see .
He gave one frightened look at Farmer Brown 's boy , and then with a mighty `` Woof ! ''
he started for the Green Forest as fast as his legs could take him , and this was very fast indeed , let me tell you .
He did n't stop to pick out a path , but just crashed through the bushes as if they were nothing at all , just nothing at all .
But the funniest thing of all is this -- he took that pail with him !
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear ran away with the big tin pail of Farmer Brown 's boy !
You see when it slipped off his head , the handle was still around his neck , and there he was running away with a pail hanging from his neck !
He did n't want it .
He would have given anything to get rid of it .
But he took it because he could n't help it .
And that brings us back to the question , did Buster steal Farmer Brown 's boy 's pail ?
What do you think ?
XXI SAMMY JAY MAKES THINGS WORSE FOR BUSTER BEAR `` Thief , thief , thief !
Thief , thief , thief ! ''
Sammy Jay was screaming at the top of his lungs , as he followed Buster Bear across the Old Pasture towards the Green Forest .
Never had he screamed so loud , and never had his voice sounded so excited .
The little people of the Green Forest , the Green Meadows , and the Smiling Pool are so used to hearing Sammy cry thief that usually they think very little about it .
But every blessed one who heard Sammy this morning stopped whatever he was doing and pricked up his ears to listen .
Sammy 's cousin , Blacky the Crow , just happened to be flying along the edge of the Old Pasture , and the minute he heard Sammy 's voice , he turned and flew over to see what it was all about .
Just as soon as he caught sight of Buster Bear running for the Green Forest as hard as ever he could , he understood what had excited Sammy so .
He was so surprised that he almost forgot to keep his wings moving .
Buster Bear had what looked to Blacky very much like a tin pail hanging from his neck !
No wonder Sammy was excited .
Blacky beat his wings fiercely and started after Sammy .
And so they reached the edge of the Green Forest , Buster Bear running as hard as ever he could , Sammy Jay flying just behind him and screaming , `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
at the top of his lungs , and behind him Blacky the Crow , trying to catch up and yelling as loud as he could , `` Caw , caw , caw !
Come on , everybody !
Come on !
Come on ! ''
Poor Buster !
It was bad enough to be frightened almost to death as he had been up in the Old Pasture when the pail had caught over his head just as Farmer Brown 's boy had yelled at him .
Then to have the handle of the pail slip down around his neck so that he could n't get rid of the pail but had to take it with him as he ran , was making a bad matter worse .
Now to have all his neighbors of the Green Forest see him in such a fix and make fun of him , was more than he could stand .
He felt humiliated .
That is just another way of saying shamed .
Yes , Sir , Buster felt that he was shamed in the eyes of his neighbors , and he wanted nothing so much as to get away by himself , where no one could see him , and try to get rid of that dreadful pail .
But Buster is so big that it is not easy for him to find a hiding place .
So , when he reached the Green Forest , he kept right on to the deepest , darkest , most lonesome part and crept under the thickest hemlock-tree he could find .
But it was of no use .
The sharp eyes of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow saw him .
They actually flew into the very tree under which he was hiding , and how they did scream !
Pretty soon Ol' Mistah Buzzard came dropping down out of the blue , blue sky and took a seat on a convenient dead tree , where he could see all that went on .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard began to grin as soon as he saw that tin pail on Buster 's neck .
Then came others , -- Redtail the Hawk , Scrapper the Kingbird , Redwing the Blackbird , Drummer the Woodpecker , Welcome Robin , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , Jenny Wren , Redeye the Vireo , and ever so many more .
They came from the Old Orchard , the Green Meadows , and even down by the Smiling Pool , for the voices of Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow carried far , and at the sound of them everybody hurried over , sure that something exciting was going on .
Presently Buster heard light footsteps , and peeping out , he saw Billy Mink and Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare and Prickly Porky and Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk .
Even timid little Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was where he could peer out and see without being seen .
Of course , Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel were there .
There they all sat in a great circle around him , each where he felt safe , but where he could see , and every one of them laughing and making fun of Buster .
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
screamed Sammy until his throat was sore .
The worst of it was Buster knew that everybody knew that it was true .
That awful pail was proof of it .
`` I wish I never had thought of berries , '' growled Buster to himself .
XXII BUSTER BEAR HAS A FIT OF TEMPER A temper is a bad , bad thing When once it gets away .
There 's nothing quite at all like it To spoil a pleasant day .
Buster Bear was in a terrible temper .
Yes , Sir , Buster Bear was having the worst fit of temper ever seen in the Green Forest .
And the worst part of it all was that all his neighbors of the Green Forest and a whole lot from the Green Meadows and the Smiling Pool were also there to see it .
It is bad enough to give way to temper when you are all alone , and there is no one to watch you , but when you let temper get the best of you right where others see you , oh , dear , dear , it certainly is a sorry sight .
Now ordinarily Buster is one of the most good-natured persons in the world .
It takes a great deal to rouse his temper .
He is n't one tenth so quick tempered as Chatterer the Red Squirrel , or Sammy Jay , or Reddy Fox .
But when his temper is aroused and gets away from him , then watch out !
It seemed to Buster that he had had all that he could stand that day and a little more .
First had come the fright back there in the Old Pasture .
Then the pail had slipped down behind his ears and held fast , so he had run all the way to the Green Forest with it hanging about his neck .
This was bad enough , for he knew just how funny he must look , and besides , it was very uncomfortable .
But to have Sammy Jay call everybody within hearing to come and see him was more than he could stand .
It seemed to Buster as if everybody who lives in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , or around the Smiling Brook , was sitting around his hiding place , laughing and making fun of him .
It was more than any self-respecting Bear could stand .
With a roar of anger Buster Bear charged out of his hiding place .
He rushed this way and that way !
He roared with all his might !
He was very terrible to see .
Those who could fly , flew .
Those who could climb , climbed .
And those who were swift of foot , ran .
A few who could neither fly nor climb nor run fast , hid and lay shaking and trembling for fear that Buster would find them .
In less time than it takes to tell about it , Buster was alone .
At least , he could n't see any one .
-LSB- Illustration : Those who could fly , flew .
Those who could climb , climbed .
Page 112 .
-RSB- Then he vented his temper on the tin pail .
He cuffed at it and pulled at it , all the time growling angrily .
He lay down and clawed at it with his hind feet .
At last the handle broke , and he was free !
He shook himself .
Then he jumped on the helpless pail .
With a blow of a big paw he sent it clattering against a tree .
He tried to bite it .
Then he once more fell to knocking it this way and that way , until it was pounded flat , and no one would ever have guessed that it had once been a pail .
Then , and not till then , did Buster recover his usual good nature .
Little by little , as he thought it all over , a look of shame crept into his face .
`` I -- I guess it was n't the fault of that thing .
I ought to have known enough to keep my head out of it , '' he said slowly and thoughtfully .
`` You got no more than you deserve for stealing Farmer Brown 's boy 's berries , '' said Sammy Jay , who had come back and was looking on from the top of a tree .
`` You ought to know by this time that no good comes of stealing . ''
Buster Bear looked up and grinned , and there was a twinkle in his eyes .
`` You ought to know , Sammy Jay , '' said he .
`` I hope you 'll always remember it . ''
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
screamed Sammy , and flew away .
XXIII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY LUNCHES ON BERRIES When things go wrong in spite of you To smile 's the best thing you can do -- To smile and say , `` I 'm mighty glad They are no worse ; they 're not so bad ! ''
That is what Farmer Brown 's boy said when he found that Buster Bear had stolen the berries he had worked so hard to pick and then had run off with the pail .
You see , Farmer Brown 's boy is learning to be something of a philosopher , one of those people who accept bad things cheerfully and right away see how they are better than they might have been .
When he had first heard some one in the bushes where he had hidden his pail of berries , he had been very sure that it was one of the cows or young cattle who live in the Old Pasture during the summer .
He had been afraid that they might stupidly kick over the pail and spill the berries , and he had hurried to drive whoever it was away .
It had n't entered his head that it could be anybody who would eat those berries .
When he had yelled and Buster Bear had suddenly appeared , struggling to get off the pail which had caught over his head , Farmer Brown 's boy had been too frightened to even move .
Then he had seen Buster tear away through the brush even more frightened than he was , and right away his courage had begun to come back .
`` If he is so afraid of me , I guess I need n't be afraid of him , '' said he .
`` I 've lost my berries , but it is worth it to find out that he is afraid of me .
There are plenty more on the bushes , and all I 've got to do is to pick them .
It might be worse . ''
He walked over to the place where the pail had been , and then he remembered that when Buster ran away he had carried the pail with him , hanging about his neck .
He whistled .
It was a comical little whistle of chagrin as he realized that he had nothing in which to put more berries , even if he picked them .
`` It 's worse than I thought , '' cried he .
`` That bear has cheated me out of that berry pie my mother promised me . ''
Then he began to laugh , as he thought of how funny Buster Bear had looked with the pail about his neck , and then because , you know he is learning to be a philosopher , he once more repeated , `` It might have been worse .
Yes , indeed , it might have been worse .
That bear might have tried to eat me instead of the berries .
I guess I 'll go eat that lunch I left back by the spring , and then I 'll go home .
I can pick berries some other day . ''
Chuckling happily over Buster Bear 's great fright , Farmer Brown 's boy tramped back to the spring where he had left two thick sandwiches on a flat stone when he started to save his pail of berries .
`` My , but those sandwiches will taste good , '' thought he .
`` I 'm glad they are big and thick .
I never was hungrier in my life .
Hello ! ''
This he exclaimed right out loud , for he had just come in sight of the flat stone where the sandwiches should have been , and they were not there .
No , Sir , there was n't so much as a crumb left of those two thick sandwiches .
You see , Old Man Coyote had found them and gobbled them up while Farmer Brown 's boy was away .
But Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know anything about Old Man Coyote .
He rubbed his eyes and stared everywhere , even up in the trees , as if he thought those sandwiches might be hanging up there .
They had disappeared as completely as if they never had been , and Old Man Coyote had taken care to leave no trace of his visit .
Farmer Brown 's boy gaped foolishly this way and that way .
Then , instead of growing angry , a slow smile stole over his freckled face .
`` I guess some one else was hungry too , '' he muttered .
`` Wonder who it was ?
Guess this Old Pasture is no place for me to-day .
I 'll fill up on berries and then I 'll go home . ''
So Farmer Brown 's boy made his lunch on blueberries and then rather sheepishly he started for home to tell of all the strange things that had happened to him in the Old Pasture .
Two or three times , as he trudged along , he stopped to scratch his head thoughtfully .
`` I guess , '' said he at last , `` that I 'm not so smart as I thought I was , and I 've got a lot to learn yet . ''
This is the end of the adventures of Buster Bear in this book because -- guess why .
Because Old Mr. Toad insists that I must write a book about his adventures , and Old Mr. Toad is such a good friend of all of us that I am going to do it .
THE END * * * * * THE ADVENTURES OF BUSTER BEAR BOOKS BY THORNTON W. BURGESS * * * * * THE BEDTIME STORY-BOOKS 1 .
THE ADVENTURES OF REDDY FOX 2 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JOHNNY CHUCK 3 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PETER COTTONTAIL 4 .
THE ADVENTURES OF UNC ' BILLY POSSUM 5 .
THE ADVENTURES OF MR. MOCKER 6 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JERRY MUSKRAT 7 .
THE ADVENTURES OF DANNY MEADOW MOUSE 8 .
THE ADVENTURES OF GRANDFATHER FROG 9 .
THE ADVENTURES OF CHATTERER , THE RED SQUIRREL 10 .
THE ADVENTURES OF SAMMY JAY 11 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BUSTER BEAR 12 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MR. TOAD 13 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PRICKLY PORKY 14 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MAN COYOTE 15 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PADDY THE BEAVER 16 .
THE ADVENTURES OF POOR MRS. QUACK 17 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOBBY COON 18 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JIMMY SKUNK 19 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOB WHITE 20 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OL' MISTAH BUZZARD * * * * * MOTHER WEST WIND SERIES 1 .
OLD MOTHER WEST WIND 2 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S CHILDREN 3 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S ANIMAL FRIENDS 4 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S NEIGHBORS 5 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHY '' STORIES 6 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` HOW '' STORIES 7 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHEN '' STORIES 8 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHERE '' STORIES * * * * * GREEN MEADOW SERIES 1 .
HAPPY JACK 2 .
MRS. PETER RABBIT 3 .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Chatterer_the_Red_Squirrel.txt.out
I CHATTERER THE RED SQUIRREL RUNS FOR HIS LIFE Chatterer the Red Squirrel had been scolding because there was no excitement .
He had even tried to make some excitement by waking Bobby Coon and making him so angry that Bobby had threatened to eat him alive .
It had been great fun to dance around and call Bobby names and make fun of him .
Oh , yes , it had been great fun .
You see , he knew all the time that Bobby could n't catch him if he should try .
But now things were different .
Chatterer had all the excitement that he wanted .
Indeed , he had more than he wanted .
The truth is , Chatterer was running for his life , and he knew it .
It is a terrible thing , a very terrible thing to have to run for one 's life .
Peter Rabbit knows all about it .
He has run for his life often .
Sometimes it has been Reddy Fox behind him , sometimes Bowser the Hound , and once or twice Old Man Coyote .
Peter has known that on his long legs his life has depended , and more than once a terrible fear has filled his heart .
But Peter has also known that if he could reach the old stone wall or the dear Old Briar-patch first , he would be safe , and he always has reached it .
So when he has been running with that terrible fear in his heart , there has always been hope there , too .
But Chatterer the Red Squirrel was running without hope .
Yes , Sir , there was nothing but fear , terrible fear , in his heart , for he knew not where to go .
The hollow tree or the holes in the old stone wall where he would be safe from any one else , even Farmer Brown 's boy , offered him no safety now , for the one who was following him with hunger in his anger-red eyes could go anywhere that he could go -- could go into any hole big enough for him to squeeze into .
You see , it was Shadow the Weasel from whom Chatterer was running , and Shadow is so slim that he can slip in and out of places that even Chatterer can not get through .
Chatterer knew all this , and so , because it was of no use to run to his usual safe hiding places , he ran in just the other direction .
He did n't know where he was going .
He had just one thought : to run and run as long as he could and then , well , he would try to fight , though he knew it would be of no use .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
he sobbed , as he ran out on the branch of a tree and leaped across to the next tree , `` I wish I had minded my own business !
I wish I had kept my tongue still .
Shadow the Weasel would n't have known where I was if he had n't heard my voice .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear me !
What can I do ?
What can I do ? ''
Now in his great fright Chatterer had run and jumped so hard that he was beginning to grow very tired .
Presently he found that he must make a very long jump to reach the next tree .
He had often made as long a jump as this and thought nothing of it , but now he was so tired that the distance looked twice as great as it really was .
He did n't dare stop to run down the tree and scamper across .
So he took a long breath , ran swiftly along the branch , and leaped .
His hands just touched the tip of the nearest branch of the other tree .
He tried his very best to hold on , but he could n't .
Then down , down , down he fell .
He spread himself out as flat as he could , and that saved him a little , but still it was a dreadful fall , and when he landed , it seemed for just a minute as if all the breath was gone from his body .
But it was n't quite , and in another minute he was scrambling up the tree .
II CHATTERER 'S LAST CHANCE Chatterer , still running for his life and without the least hope , suddenly saw a last chance to escape from Shadow the Weasel .
That is , he saw something that might offer him a chance .
He could n't be sure until he had tried , and even then he might escape from one danger only to run right into another equally great .
What Chatterer saw was a big brown bunch near the top of a tall chestnut-tree , and he headed for that tree as fast as ever he could go .
What was that big brown bunch ?
Why it was Redtail the Hawk , who was dozing there with his head drawn down between his shoulders dreaming .
Now old Redtail is one of Chatterer 's deadliest enemies .
He is quite as fond of Red Squirrel as is Shadow the Weasel , though he does n't often try to catch one , because there are other things to eat much easier to get .
Chatterer had had more than one narrow escape from old Redtail and was very much afraid of him , yet here he was running up the very tree in which Redtail was sitting .
You see , a very daring idea had come into his head .
He had seen at once that Redtail was dozing and had n't seen him at all .
He knew that Redtail would just as soon have Shadow the Weasel for dinner as himself , and a very daring plan had popped into his head .
`` I may as well be caught by Redtail as Shadow , '' he thought , as he ran up the tree , `` but if my plan works out right , I wo n't be caught by either .
Anyway , it is my very last chance . ''
Up the tree he scrambled , and after him went Shadow the Weasel .
Shadow had been so intent on catching Chatterer that he had not noticed old Redtail , which was just as Chatterer had hoped .
Up , up he scrambled , straight past old Redtail , but as he passed , he pulled one of Redtail 's long tail feathers , and then ran on to the top of the tree , and with the last bit of strength he had left , leaped to a neighboring spruce-tree where , hidden by the thick branches , he stopped to rest and see what would happen .
Of course , when he felt his tail pulled , old Redtail was wide awake in a flash ; and of course he looked down to see who had dared to pull his tail .
There just below him was Shadow the Weasel , who had just that minute discovered who was sitting there .
Old Redtail hissed sharply , and the feathers on the top of his head stood up in a way they do when he is angry .
And he was angry -- very angry .
Shadow the Weasel stopped short .
Then , like a flash , he dodged around to the other side of the tree .
He had no thought of Chatterer now .
Things were changed all in an instant , quite changed .
Instead of the hunter , he was now the hunted .
Old Redtail circled in the air just overhead , and every time he caught sight of Shadow , he swooped at him with great , cruel claws spread to clutch him .
Shadow dodged around the trunk of the tree .
He was more angry than frightened , for his sharp eyes had spied a little hollow in a branch of the chestnut-tree , and he knew that once inside of that , he would have nothing to fear .
But he was angry clear through to think that he should be cheated out of that dinner he had been so sure of only a few minutes before .
So he screeched angrily at old Redtail and then , watching his chance , scampered out to the hollow and whisked inside , just in the nick of time .
Chatterer , watching from the spruce-tree , gave a great sigh of relief .
He saw Redtail the Hawk post himself on the top of a tall tree where he could keep watch of that hollow in which Shadow had disappeared , and he knew that it would be a long time before Shadow would dare poke even his nose outside .
Then , as soon as he was rested , Chatterer stole softly , oh , so softly , away through the tree-tops until he was sure that Redtail could not see him .
Then he hurried .
He wanted to get just as far away from Shadow the Weasel as he could .
III CHATTERER TELLS SAMMY JAY ABOUT SHADOW THE WEASEL Chatterer hurried through the Green Forest .
He did n't know just where he was going .
He had but one thought , and that was to get as far away from Shadow the Weasel as he could .
It made him have cold shivers all over every time he thought of Shadow .
`` Seems to me you are in a great hurry , '' said a voice from a pine-tree he was passing .
Chatterer knew that voice without looking to see who was speaking .
Everybody in the Green Forest knows that voice .
It was the voice of Sammy Jay .
`` It looks to me as if you were running away from some one , '' jeered Sammy .
Chatterer wanted to stop and pick a quarrel with Sammy , as he usually did when they met , but the fear of Shadow the Weasel was still upon him .
`` I -- I -- am , '' he said in a very low voice .
Sammy looked as if he thought he had n't heard right .
Never before had he known Chatterer to admit that he was afraid , for you know Chatterer is a great boaster .
It must be something very serious to frighten Chatterer like that .
`` What 's that ? ''
Sammy asked sharply .
`` I always knew you to be a coward , but this is the first time I have ever known you to admit it .
Who are you running away from ? ''
Illustration : `` What 's that ? ''
Sammy asked sharply .
`` Shadow the Weasel , '' replied Chatterer , still in a very low voice , as if he were afraid of being overheard .
`` Shadow the Weasel is back in the Green Forest , and I have just had such a narrow escape ! ''
`` Ho ! ''
cried Sammy , `` this is important .
I thought Shadow was up in the Old Pasture .
If he has come back to the Green Forest , folks ought to know it .
Where is he now ? ''
Chatterer stopped and told Sammy all about his narrow escape and how he had left Shadow the Weasel in a hollow of a chestnut-tree with Redtail the Hawk watching for him to come out .
Sammy 's eyes sparkled when Chatterer told how he had pulled the tail of old Redtail .
`` And he does n't know now who did it ; he thinks it was Shadow , '' concluded Chatterer , with a weak little grin .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laughed Sammy Jay .
`` I wish I had been there to see it . ''
Then he suddenly grew grave .
`` Other folks certainly ought to know that Shadow is back in the Green Forest , '' said he , `` so that they may be on their guard .
Then if they get caught , it is their own fault .
I think I 'll go spread the news . ''
You see , for all his mean ways , Sammy Jay does have some good in him , just as everybody does , and he dearly loves to tell important news .
`` I -- I wish you would go first of all and tell my cousin , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , '' said Chatterer , speaking in a hesitating way .
Sammy Jay leaned over and looked at Chatterer sharply .
`` I thought you and Happy Jack were not friends , '' said he .
`` You always seem to be quarreling . ''
Chatterer looked a little confused , but he is very quick with his tongue , is Chatterer .
`` That 's just it , '' he replied quickly .
`` That 's just it !
If anything should happen to Happy Jack , I would n't have him to quarrel with , and it is such fun to see him get mad ! ''
Now of course the real reason why Chatterer wanted Happy Jack warned was because down inside he was ashamed of a dreadful thought that had come to him of leading Shadow the Weasel to Happy Jack 's house , so that he himself might escape .
It had been a dreadful thought , a cowardly thought , and Chatterer had been really ashamed that he should have ever had such a thought .
He thought now that if he could do something for Happy Jack , he would feel better about it .
Sammy Jay promised to go straight to Happy Jack and warn him that Shadow the Weasel was back in the Green Forest , and off he started , screaming the news as he flew , so that all the little people in the Green Forest might know .
Chatterer listened a few minutes and then started on .
`` Where shall I go ? ''
he muttered .
`` Where shall I go ?
I do n't dare stay in the Green Forest , for now Shadow will never rest until he catches me . ''
IV CHATTERER LEAVES THE GREEN FOREST Chatterer was in a peck of trouble .
Yes , Sir , he was in a peck of trouble .
There was no doubt about it .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
If only I had kept my tongue still !
If only I had kept my tongue still ! ''
he kept saying over and over to himself , as he hurried through the Green Forest .
You see , Chatterer was just beginning to realize what a lot of trouble an unruly tongue can get one into .
Here it was cold weather , the very edge of winter , and Chatterer did n't dare stay in the Green Forest where he had always made his home .
His storehouses were full of nuts and seeds and corn , enough and more than enough to keep him in comfort all winter , and now he must turn his back on them and go he did n't know where , and all because of his mean disposition and bad tongue .
If he had n't called Bobby Coon names that morning at the top of his voice , Shadow the Weasel might not have found him .
He knew that Shadow has a long memory , and that he would never forget the trick by which Chatterer had escaped , and so the only way Chatterer would ever be able to have a moment 's peace would be to leave the Green Forest for as long as Shadow the Weasel chose to stay there .
Chatterer shivered inside his warm , red fur coat as he thought of the long , cold winter and how hard it would be to find enough to eat .
Was ever any one else in such a dreadful fix ?
Presently he came to the edge of the Green Forest .
He sat down to rest in the top of a tree where he could look off over the Green Meadows .
Far , far away he could see the Purple Hills , behind which jolly , round , red Mr. Sun goes to bed every night .
He could see the old stone wall that separates Farmer Brown 's cornfield from the Green Meadows .
He could see Farmer Brown 's house and barn and near them the Old Orchard where Johnny Chuck had spent the summer with Polly Chuck and their baby Chucks .
He knew every nook and corner in the old stone wall and many times he had been to the Old Orchard .
It was there that he had stolen the eggs of Drummer the Woodpecker .
He grinned at the thought of those eggs and how he had stolen them , and then he shivered as he remembered how he had finally been caught and how sharp the bills of Drummer and Mrs. Drummer were .
But all that was in the past , and thinking about it was n't going to help him now .
He had got to do something right away .
Perhaps he might find a place to live in the old stone wall , and there might , there just might , be enough grains of corn scattered over the ground of the cornfield for him to lay up a supply , if he worked very hard and fast .
Anyway , he would have a look .
So he hurried down from the tree and out along the old stone wall .
His spirits began to rise as he whisked along , peering into every hole and jumping from stone to stone .
It really seemed as though he might find a snug home somewhere here .
Then he remembered something that made his heart sink again .
He remembered having seen Shadow the Weasel more than once exploring that very wall .
Just as likely as not he would do it again , for it was so very near the Green Forest .
No , the old stone wall would n't do .
Just then along came Peter Rabbit .
Peter saw right away that something was wrong with Chatterer , and he wanted to know what it was .
Chatterer told him .
He felt that he had just got to tell some one .
Peter looked thoughtful .
He scratched his long left ear with his long right hind foot .
`` You know there is another old stone wall up there by the Old Orchard , '' said he .
`` It is pretty near Farmer Brown 's house , and Black Pussy hunts there a great deal , but you ought to be smart enough to keep out of her clutches . ''
`` I should hope so ! ''
exclaimed Chatterer scornfully .
`` I have never seen a cat yet that I was afraid of !
believe I 'll go over and have a look at that old wall , Peter Rabbit . ''
`` I 'll go with you , '' said Peter , and off they started together .
V CHATTERER FINDS A HOME When your plans are upset and all scattered about Just make up your mind that you 'll find a way out .
Peter rabbit went straight over to the old stone wall on the edge of the Old Orchard , lipperty-lipperty-lip so fast that it did n't take him long to get there .
But Chatterer the Red Squirrel never feels really safe on the ground unless there is something to climb close at hand , so he went a long way round by way of the rail fence .
He always did like to run along a rail fence , and he would n't have minded it a bit this morning if he had n't been in such a hurry .
It seemed to him that he never would get there .
But of course he did .
When he did get there , he found Peter Rabbit sitting on Johnny Chuck 's doorstep , staring down Johnny Chuck 's long hall .
`` They 're asleep , '' said he , as Chatterer came up all out of breath .
`` I 've thumped and thumped and thumped , but it is n't the least bit of use .
They are asleep , and they 'll stay asleep until Mistress Spring arrives .
I ca n't understand it at all .
No , Sir , I ca n't understand how anybody can be willing to miss this splendid cold weather . ''
Peter shook his head in a puzzled way and continued to stare down the long empty hall .
Of course he was talking about Johnny and Polly Chuck , who had gone to sleep for the winter .
That sleeping business always puzzles Peter .
It seems to him like a terrible waste of time .
But Chatterer had too much on his mind to waste time wondering how other people could sleep all winter .
He could n't himself , and now that he had been driven away from his own home in the Green Forest by fear of Shadow the Weasel , he could n't waste a minute .
He must find a new home and then spend every minute of daytime laying up a new store of food for the days when everything would be covered with snow .
Up and down the length of the stone wall he scampered , looking for a place to make a home , but nothing suited him .
You know he likes best to make his home in a tree .
He is n't like Striped Chipmunk , who lives in the ground .
Poor Chatterer !
He just could n't see how he was going to live in the old stone wall .
He sat on top of a big stone to rest and think it over .
He was discouraged .
Life did n't seem worth the living just then .
He felt as if his heart had gone way down to his toes .
Just then his eyes saw something that made his heart come up again with a great bound right where it ought to be , and just then Peter Rabbit came hopping along .
`` Have you found a new home yet ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Yes , '' replied Chatterer , `` I think I have .
`` That 's good , '' replied Peter .
`` I was sure you would find one over here .
Where is it ? ''
Illustration : `` Have you found a new home yet ? ''
asked Peter .
Chatterer opened his mouth to tell Peter and then closed it with a snap .
He remembered just in time how hard it is for Peter to keep a secret .
If he should tell Peter , it would be just like Peter to tell some one else without meaning to , and then it might get back to Shadow the Weasel .
`` I 'm not going to tell you now , Peter Rabbit , '' said he .
`` You see , I do n't want anybody to know where it is until I am sure that it will do .
But I 'll tell you this much , '' he added , as he saw how disappointed Peter looked , `` I 'm going to live right here . ''
Peter brightened up right away .
You see , he thought that of course Chatterer meant that he had found a hole in the old stone wall , and he felt very sure that he could find it by keeping watch .
`` That 's good , '' he said again .
`` I 'll come see you often .
But watch out for Black Pussy ; her claws are very sharp .
Now I think I 'll be going back to the Old Briar-patch . ''
`` Do n't tell where I am , '' called Chatterer .
VI PETER RABBIT LISTENS TO THE WRONG VOICE Peter Rabbit did n't play fair .
No , Sir , Peter did n't play fair .
People who have too much curiosity about other people 's affairs seldom do play fair .
He did n't mean to be unfair .
Oh , my , no !
Peter did n't mean to be unfair .
When he left Chatterer the Red Squirrel sitting on the old stone wall on the edge of Farmer Brown 's Old Orchard , he intended to go straight home to the dear Old Briar-patch .
He was a little disappointed , was Peter , that Chatterer had n't told him just where his new house was .
Not that it really mattered ; he just wanted to know , that was all .
With every jump away from the old stone wall , that desire to know just where Chatterer 's new house was seemed to grow .
Peter stopped and looked back .
He could n't see Chatterer now , because the bushes hid him .
And if he could n't see Chatterer , why of course Chatterer could n't see him .
Peter sat down and began to pull his whiskers in a way he has when he is trying to decide something .
It seemed as if two little voices were quarreling inside him .
`` Go along home like the good fellow you are and mind your own business , '' said one .
`` Steal back to the old wall and watch Chatterer and so find out just where his new house is ; he 'll never know anything about it , and there 'll be no harm done , '' said the other little voice .
It was louder than the first voice , and Peter liked the sound of it .
`` I believe I will , '' said he , and without waiting to hear what the first little voice would say to that , he turned about and very carefully and softly tiptoed back to the old stone wall .
Right near it was a thick little bush .
It seemed to Peter that it must have grown there just to give him a hiding place .
He crawled under it and lay very flat .
He could see along the old stone wall in both directions .
Chatterer was sitting just where he had left him .
He was looking in the direction that Peter had gone when he had said good-by .
Peter chuckled to himself .
`` He 's waiting to make sure I have gone before he goes to that new house of his , '' thought Peter .
`` This is the time I 'll fool him . ''
`` You ought to be ashamed of yourself , Peter Rabbit ; this is none of your business , '' said that little small voice .
`` You 're not doing a bit of harm .
Chatterer has no business to try to keep his new house a secret , anyway , '' said the other little voice inside .
And because of his dreadful curiosity , Peter liked the sound of that voice best and listened to it , and after a while the first voice grew discouraged and stopped .
Chatterer sat where he was for what seemed to Peter a very long time .
But by and by he gave a sudden funny little flirt of his tail and ran along the old wall a little way .
Then with a hasty look around , he disappeared in a hole .
A minute later he popped his head out for another look around and then disappeared again .
He did this two or three times as if anxious .
Peter chuckled to himself .
`` That 's his new house right there , '' said he to himself , `` and now that I know where it is , I think I 'll hurry along home to the dear Old Briar-patch . ''
He was just getting ready to start when Chatterer popped out of his hole and sat up on a big stone .
He was talking out loud , and Peter listened .
Then his long ears began to burn , for this is what he heard : `` I 'm glad that Peter 's not a spy , For spies are hateful as can be ; It 's dreadful how some people try Affairs of other folks to see . ''
Chatterer whisked out of sight , and Peter hurried to get away .
His ears still burned , and somehow he did n't feel so tickled over the thought that he had discovered Chatterer 's secret as he had thought he would .
And over in the hole in the old stone wall Chatterer the Red Squirrel was laughing as if there was some great joke .
There was , and the joke was on Peter Rabbit .
You see he had n't discovered Chatterer 's new house at all .
VII HOW CHATTERER HAD FOOLED PETER RABBIT Chatterer the Red Squirrel is a scamp himself and not to be trusted .
Nobody in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows trusts him .
And people who can not be trusted themselves never trust any one else .
Chatterer never does .
He is always suspicious .
So when Peter Rabbit had said good-by and started for the dear Old Briar-patch without knowing where Chatterer 's new house was , Chatterer had made up his mind right away that Peter would never be satisfied until he knew , or thought he knew , where that new house was .
You see , he knew all about Peter 's dreadful curiosity .
He watched Peter out of sight , then he slipped down out of sight himself between the stones of the old wall .
`` I know what Peter will do , '' said he to himself .
`` Peter will come sneaking back , and hide where he can watch me , and so find out where my new house is .
I 'll just stay here long enough to give him a chance to hide , and then I 'll fool him . ''
You see , Chatterer knew that if he had been in Peter 's place , he would have done just that thing .
So he waited a little while and then went back to the place where Peter had left him .
There he sat and pretended to be looking in the direction in which Peter had gone , as if to make sure that Peter was really on his way home .
But all the time Chatterer was watching out of the corners of his eyes to see if Peter was hiding anywhere near .
He did n't see Peter , but he did n't have the least doubt that Peter was somewhere about .
After a while , he ran over to a hole between the stones of the old wall and pretended to be very busy there , just as if it really were the new house he had found .
He kept popping in and out and looking around as if afraid that some one was watching him .
He even got some dry leaves and took them inside , as if to make a bed .
All the time , although he had n't seen a sign of Peter , he did n't have the least doubt in the world that Peter was watching him .
When he grew tired , a new idea popped into his shrewd little head .
He popped out of the hole and sat up on the wall .
Then he said aloud that verse which had made Peter 's ears burn so .
He had meant to make Peter 's ears burn .
He said that verse just as if he really did believe that Peter was not spying on him and was glad of it .
When he had finished , he whisked out of sight again to give Peter a chance to get away .
But this time Chatterer did some peeking himself .
He hid where Peter could n't see him , but where he himself could see both ways along the old stone wall , and so it was that he saw Peter crawl out from under the little bush where he had been hiding and sneak away in the direction of the Old Briar-patch .
And he knew that this time Peter had gone for good .
Then Chatterer laughed and laughed to think how he had fooled Peter Rabbit , and wished that he could pat himself on the back for being so smart .
He did n't once think of how dishonest and mean it was of Peter to spy on him , because , you see , he would have done the same thing himself .
`` One has to have one 's wits very sharp these days to keep a secret , '' chuckled Chatterer .
But over in the old Briar-patch that afternoon Peter Rabbit sat very thoughtful and very much ashamed .
The thought that he had found out where Chatterer 's new house was did n't give him the pleasure that he had thought it would .
His ears still burned , for he thought that Chatterer supposed him honest when he was n't .
`` I believe I 'll go over to-morrow and tell Chatterer all about it and how mean I have been , '' said he at last .
And when he had made up his mind to do this , he felt better .
And all the time he had n't found Chatterer 's new house at all .
You see , it was the old home of Drummer the Woodpecker in an old apple-tree which Chatterer had decided to live in .
VIII CHATTERER GROWS CARELESS When you grow careless even though It be in matters small , Old Mr. Trouble you will find Is bound to make a call .
Some people never seem to learn that .
You would suppose that after all the trouble and worry Chatterer the Red Squirrel had had , he would have learned a lesson .
For a while it seemed as if he had .
Morning after morning , before anybody was up in Farmer Brown 's house , he visited Farmer Brown 's corn-crib , taking the greatest care not to be seen and to get back to his home in the Old Orchard before it was time for Farmer Brown 's boy to come out and do his morning 's work .
And in the corn-crib he took the greatest care to steal only where what he took would not be missed .
The empty cobs from which he had eaten the corn he hid in the darkest corner behind the great pile of yellow corn , where they would not be found until nearly all the corn had been taken from the crib .
Oh , he was very sly and crafty , was Chatterer the Red Squirrel -- at first .
But after a while , when nothing happened , Chatterer grew careless .
At first it had seemed very dangerous to go over to the corn-crib , but after he had been there often , it did n't seem dangerous at all .
Once inside , he would just give himself up to having a good time .
He raced about over the great pile of beautiful yellow corn and found the loveliest hiding places in it .
Down in a dark corner he made a splendid bed from pieces of husk which had n't been stripped from some of the ears .
It was quite the nicest place he had ever dreamed of , was Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
He got to feeling that it was his own and not Farmer Brown 's at all .
The more that feeling grew , the more careless Chatterer became .
He dropped a grain of corn now and then and was too lazy to go down and pick it up , or else did n't think anything about it .
Farmer Brown 's boy , coming every morning for corn for the hens , noticed these grains , but supposed they were some that had been rubbed from the ears during the handling of them .
Then one morning Chatterer dropped a cob from which he had eaten all the corn .
He meant to get it and hide it , as he had hidden other cobs , but he did n't want to do it just then .
And later -- well , then he forgot all about it .
Yes , Sir , he forgot all about it until he had reached his home in the Old Orchard .
`` Oh , well , '' thought Chatterer , `` it does n't matter .
I can get it and hide it to-morrow morning . ''
Now a corn-cob is a very simple thing .
Farmer Brown 's boy knew where there was a whole pile of them .
He added to that pile every day , after shelling enough corn for the biddies .
So it would seem that there was nothing about a corn-cob to make him open his eyes as he did that morning , when he saw the one left by Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
But you see he knew that a bare corn-cob had no business inside the corn-crib , and suddenly those scattered grains of corn had a new meaning for him .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
he exclaimed , `` A thief has been here , after all !
I thought we were safe from rats and mice , and I do n't see now how they got in , for I do n't , I really do n't , see how they could climb the stone legs of the corn-crib .
But some one with sharp teeth certainly has been in here .
It must be that I have left the door open some time , and a rat has slipped in .
I 'll just have to get after you , Mr. Rat or Mr. Mouse .
We ca n't have you in our corn-crib . ''
With that he went into the house .
Presently he came back , and in one hand was a rat-trap and in the other a mouse-trap .
IX CHATTERER GROWS TOO CURIOUS Everybody knows how curious Peter Rabbit is .
He is forever poking his wobbly little nose in where it has no business to be , and as a result Peter is forever getting into trouble .
Whenever Chatterer the Red Squirrel has heard a new story about Peter and the scrapes his curiosity has got him into , Chatterer has said that Peter got no more than he deserved .
As for himself , he might be curious about a thing he saw for the first time , but he had too much sense to meddle with it until he knew all about it .
So Chatterer has come to be thought very smart , quite too smart to be caught in a trap -- at least to be caught in an ordinary trap .
Now a great many people manage to make their neighbors think they are a great deal smarter than they really are , and Chatterer is one of this kind .
If some of his neighbors could have peeped into Farmer Brown 's corn-crib the morning after Farmer Brown 's boy found the telltale corn-cob so carelessly dropped by Chatterer , they would have been surprised .
Yes , Sir , they would have been surprised .
They would have seen Chatterer the Red Squirrel , the boaster , he of the sharp wits , showing quite as much curiosity as ever possessed Peter Rabbit .
Chatterer had come over to the corn-crib as usual to get his daily supply of corn .
As usual , he had raced about over the great pile of yellow corn .
Quite suddenly his sharp eyes spied something that they had n't seen before .
It was down on the floor of the corn-crib quite near the door .
Chatterer was sure that it had n't been there the day before .
It was a very queer looking thing , very queer indeed .
And then he spied another queer looking thing near it , only this was very much smaller .
What could they be ?
He looked at them suspiciously .
They looked harmless enough .
They did n't move .
He ran a few steps towards them and scolded , just as he scolds at anything new he finds out of doors .
Still they did n't move .
He ran around on a little ledge where he could look right down on the queer things .
He was sure now that they were not alive .
The biggest one he could see all through .
Inside was something to eat .
The littlest thing was round and flat with funny bits of wire on top .
It looked as if it were made of wood , and in the sides were little round holes too small for him to put his head through .
`` Leave them alone , '' said a small voice inside of Chatterer .
`` But I want to see what they are and find out all about them , '' said Chatterer .
`` No good ever comes of meddling with things you do n't know about , '' said the small voice .
`` But they are such queer looking things , and they 're not alive .
They ca n't hurt me , '' said Chatterer .
Nevertheless he ran back to the pile of corn and tried to eat .
Somehow he had lost his appetite .
He could n't take his eyes off those two queer things down on the floor .
`` Better keep away , '' warned the small voice inside .
`` It wo n't do any harm to have a closer look at them , '' said Chatterer .
So once more he scrambled down from the pile of corn and little by little drew nearer to the two queer things .
The nearer he got , the more harmless they looked .
Finally he reached out and smelled of the smallest .
Then he turned up his nose .
`` Smells of mice , '' muttered Chatterer , `` just common barn mice . ''
Then he reached out a paw and touched it .
`` Pooh ! ''
said he , `` it 's nothing to be afraid of . ''
Just then he touched one of the little wires , and there was a sudden snap .
It frightened Chatterer so that he scurried away .
But he could n't stay away .
That snap was such a funny thing , and it had n't done any harm .
You see , he had n't put his paw in at one of the little holes , or it might have done some harm .
Pretty soon he was back again , meddling with those little wires on top .
Every once in a while there would be a snap , and he would scamper away .
It was very scary and great fun .
By and by the thing would n't snap any more , and then Chatterer grew tired of his queer plaything and began to wonder about the other queer thing .
No harm had come from the first one , and so he was sure no harm could come from the other .
X OLD MR. TROUBLE GETS CHATTERER AT LAST Of course you have guessed what it was that Chatterer had been meddling with .
It was a mouse-trap , and he had sprung it without getting hurt .
Chatterer did n't know that it was a trap .
He ought to have known , but he did n't .
You see , it was not at all like the traps Farmer Brown 's boy had sometimes set for him in the Green Forest .
He knew all about those traps and never , never went near them .
Now that there was nothing more exciting about the mouse-trap , Chatterer turned his attention to the other queer thing .
He walked all around it and looked at it from every side .
It certainly was queer .
Yes , Sir , it certainly was queer !
It looked something like a little house only he could see all through it .
He put one paw out and touched it .
Nothing happened .
He tried it again .
Then he jumped right on top of it .
Still nothing happened .
He tried his sharp teeth on it , but he could n't bite it .
You see , it was made of stout wire .
Inside was something that looked good to eat .
It smelled good , too .
Chatterer began to wonder what it would taste like .
The more he wondered , the more he wanted to know .
There must be some way of getting in , and if he could get in , of course he could get out again .
He jumped down to the floor and ran all around the queer little wire house .
At each end was a sort of little wire hallway .
Chatterer stuck his head in one .
It seemed perfectly safe .
He crept a little way in and then backed out in a hurry .
Nothing happened .
He tried it again .
Still nothing happened .
`` Better keep away , '' said a small voice down inside of him .
`` Pooh !
Who 's afraid ! ''
said Chatterer .
`` This thing ca n't hurt me . ''
Then he crept a little farther in .
Right in front of him was a little round doorway with a little wire door .
Chatterer pushed the little door with his nose , and it opened a teeny , weeny bit .
He drew back suspiciously .
Then he tried it again , and this time pushed the little door a little farther open .
He did this two or three times until finally he had his head quite inside , and there , right down below him , was that food he so wanted to taste .
`` I can hop right down and get it and then hop right up again , '' thought Chatterer .
`` Do n't do it , '' said the small voice inside .
`` Corn is plenty good enough .
Besides , it is time you were getting back to the Old Orchard . ''
`` It wo n't take but a minute , '' said Chatterer , `` and I really must know what that tastes like . ''
With that he jumped down .
Snap !
Chatterer looked up .
The little wire door had closed .
Old Mr. Trouble had got Chatterer at last .
Yes , Sir , he certainly had got Chatterer this time .
You see , he could n't open that little wire door from the inside .
He was in a trap -- the wire rat-trap set by Farmer Brown 's boy .
XI WHAT HAPPENED NEXT TO CHATTERER Were you ever terribly , terribly frightened ?
That was the way Chatterer felt .
He was caught ; there was no doubt about it !
His sharp teeth were of no use at all on those hard wires .
He could look out between them , but he could n't get out .
He was too frightened to think .
His heart pounded against his sides until it hurt .
He forgot all about that queer food he had so wanted to taste , and which was right before him now .
Indeed , he felt as if he never , never would want to eat again .
What was going to happen to him now ?
What would Farmer Brown 's boy do to him when he found him there ?
Hark !
What was that ?
It was a step just outside the door of the corn-crib .
Farmer Brown 's boy was coming !
Chatterer raced around his little wire prison and bit savagely at the hard wires .
But it was of no use , no use at all .
It only hurt his mouth cruelly .
Then the door of the corn-crib swung open , a flood of light poured in , and with it came Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaimed Farmer Brown 's boy , as he caught sight of Chatterer .
`` So you are the thief who has been stealing our corn , and I thought it was a rat or a mouse .
Well , well , you little red rascal , did n't you know that thieves come to no good end ?
You 're pretty smart , for I never once thought of you , but you were not so smart as you thought .
Now I wonder what we had better do with you . ''
He picked up the trap with Chatterer in it and stepped out into the beautiful great out-of-doors .
Chatterer could see across the dooryard to the Old Orchard and the familiar old stone wall along which he had scampered so often .
They looked just the same as ever , and yet -- well , they did n't look just the same , for he could n't look at them without seeing those cruel wires which were keeping him from them .
Farmer Brown 's boy put the trap down on the ground and then began to call .
`` Puss , Puss , Puss , '' called Farmer Brown 's boy .
Chatterer 's heart , which had been thumping so , almost stopped beating with fright .
There was Black Pussy , whom he had so often teased and made fun of .
Her yellow eyes had a hungry gleam as she walked around the trap and sniffed and sniffed .
Never had Chatterer heard such a terrible sound as those hungry sniffs so close to him !
Black Pussy tried to put a paw between the wires , and Chatterer saw the great , cruel claws .
But Black Pussy could n't get her paw between the wires .
`` How would you like him for breakfast ? ''
asked Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Meow , '' said Black Pussy , arching her back and rubbing against his legs .
`` I suppose that means that you would like him very much , '' laughed Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Do you think you can catch him if I let him out ? ''
`` Meow , '' replied Black Pussy again , and to poor Chatterer it seemed the awfullest sound he ever had heard .
`` Well , we 'll see about it by and by , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` There 's the breakfast bell , and I have n't fed the biddies yet . ''
XII CHATTERER IS SURE THAT THIS IS HIS LAST DAY There was no hope , not the teeniest , weeniest ray of hope in the heart of Chatterer , as Farmer Brown 's boy picked up the wire rat-trap and started for the house , Black Pussy , the cat , following at his heels and looking up at Chatterer with cruel , hungry eyes .
Chatterer took a farewell look at the Old Orchard and way beyond it the Green Forest , from which he had been driven by fear of Shadow the Weasel .
Then the door of the farmhouse closed and shut it all out .
If there had been any hope in Chatterer 's heart , the closing of that door would have shut the last bit out .
But there was n't any hope .
Chatterer was sure that he was to be given to Black Pussy for her breakfast .
Farmer Brown 's boy put the trap on a table .
`` What have you there ? ''
called a great voice .
It was the voice of Farmer Brown himself , who was eating his breakfast .
`` I 've got the thief who has been stealing our corn in the crib , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy , `` and who do you think it is ? ''
`` One of those pesky rats , '' replied Farmer Brown .
`` I 'm afraid you 've been careless and left the door open some time , and that is how the rats have got in there . ''
`` But it is n't a rat , and I do n't believe that there is a rat there , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy in triumph .
`` It 's that little scamp of a red squirrel we 've seen racing along the wall at the edge of the Old Orchard lately .
I ca n't imagine how he got in there , but there he was , and now here he is . ''
`` What are you going to do with him ? ''
asked Farmer Brown , coming over to look at Chatterer .
`` I do n't know , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy , `` unless I give him to Black Puss for her breakfast .
She has been teasing me for him ever since I found him . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy looked over to the other side of the table as he said this , and his eyes twinkled with mischief .
`` Oh , you must n't do that !
That would be cruel ! ''
cried a soft voice .
`` You must take him down to the Green Forest and let him go . ''
A gentle face with pitying eyes was bent above the trap .
`` Just see how frightened the poor little thing is !
You must take him straight down to the Green Forest right after breakfast . ''
`` Is n't that just like Mother ? ''
cried Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` I believe it would be just the same with the ugliest old rat that ever lived .
She would try to think of some excuse for letting it go . ''
`` God made all the little people who wear fur , and they must have some place in his great plan , '' said Mrs. Brown .
Farmer Brown laughed a big , hearty laugh .
`` True enough , Mother ! ''
said he .
`` The trouble is , they get out of place .
Now this little rascal 's place is down in the Green Forest and not up in our corn-crib . ''
`` Then put him back in his right place ! ''
was the prompt reply , and they all laughed .
Now all this time poor Chatterer was thinking that this surely was his last day .
You see , he knew that he had been a thief , and he knew that Farmer Brown 's boy knew it .
He just crouched down in a little ball , too miserable to do anything but tremble every time any one came near .
He was sure that he had seen for the last time the Green Forest and the Green Meadows and jolly Mr. Sun and all the other beautiful things he loved so , and it seemed as if his heart would burst with despair .
XIII CHATTERER IS PUT IN PRISON Who ever does a deed that 's wrong Will surely find some day That for that naughty act of his He 'll surely have to pay .
That was the way with Chatterer .
Of course he had had no business to steal corn from Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
To be sure he had felt that he had just as much right to that corn as Farmer Brown had .
You see , the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest feel that everything that grows belongs to them , if they want it and are smart enough to get it before some one else does .
But it is just there that Chatterer went wrong .
Farmer Brown had harvested that corn and stored it in his corn-crib , and so , of course , no one else had any right to it .
Right down deep in his heart Chatterer knew this .
If he had n't known it , he would n't have been so sly in taking what he wanted .
He knew all the time that he was stealing , but he tried to make himself believe that it was all right .
So he had kept on stealing and stealing until at last he was caught in a trap , and now he had got to pay for his wrong-doing .
Chatterer was very miserable , so miserable and frightened that he could do nothing but sit huddled up in a little shivery ball .
He had n't the least doubt in the world that this was his very last day , and that Farmer Brown 's boy would turn him over to cruel Black Pussy for her breakfast .
Farmer Brown 's boy had left him in the trap in the house and had gone out .
For a long time Chatterer could hear pounding out in the woodshed , and Farmer Brown 's boy was whistling as he pounded .
Chatterer wondered how he could whistle and seem so happy when he meant to do such a dreadful thing as to give him to Black Pussy .
After what seemed a very long time , ages and ages , Farmer Brown 's boy came back .
He had with him a queer looking box .
`` There , '' said he , `` is a new home for you , you little red imp !
I guess it will keep you out of trouble for a while . ''
He slid back a little door in the top of the box , and then , putting on a stout glove and opening a little door in the trap , he put in his big hand and closed it around Chatterer .
Poor little Chatterer !
He was sure now that this was the end , and that he was to be given to Black Pussy , who was looking on with hungry , yellow eyes .
He struggled and did his best to bite , but the thick glove gave his sharp little teeth no chance to hurt the hand that held him .
Even in his terror , he noticed that that big hand tried to be gentle and squeezed him no tighter than was necessary .
Then he was lifted out of the trap and dropped through the little doorway in the top of the queer box , and the door was fastened .
Nothing terrible had happened , after all .
At first , Chatterer just sulked in one corner .
He still felt sure that something terrible was going to happen .
Farmer Brown 's boy took the box out into the shed and put it where the sun shone into it .
For a little while he stayed watching , but Chatterer still sulked and sulked .
By and by he went away , taking Black Pussy with him , and Chatterer was alone .
When he was quite sure that no one was about , Chatterer began to wonder what sort of a place he was in , and if there was n't some way to get out .
He found that one side and the top were of fine , stout wire , through which he could look out , and that the other sides and the bottom were of wood covered with wire , so that there was no chance for his sharp teeth to gnaw a way out .
In one corner was a stout piece of an apple-tree , with two little stubby branches to sit on , and half way up a little round hole .
Very cautiously Chatterer peeped inside the hole .
Inside was a splendid hollow .
On the floor of the box was a little heap of shavings and bits of rag .
And there was a little pile of yellow corn .
How Chatterer did hate the sight of that corn !
You see , it was corn that had got him into all this trouble .
At least , that is the way Chatterer felt about it .
When he had examined everything , he knew that there was no way out .
Chatterer was in a prison , though that is not what Farmer Brown 's boy called it .
He said it was a cage .
Illustration : Very cautiously Chatterer peeped inside the hole .
XIV CHATTERER DECIDES TO LIVE At first Chatterer decided that he had rather die than live in a prison , no matter how nice that prison might be .
It was a very foolish thing to do , but he made up his mind that he just would n't eat .
He would n't touch that nice , yellow corn Farmer Brown 's boy had put in his prison for him .
He would starve himself to death .
Yes , Sir , he would starve himself to death .
So when he found that there was no way to get out of his prison , he curled up in the little hollow stump in his prison , where no one could see him , and made up his mind that he would stay there until he died .
Life was n't worth living if he had got to spend all the rest of his days in a prison .
He would n't even make himself comfortable .
There was that little heap of nice shavings and bits of rag for him to make a nice comfortable bed of , but he did n't touch them .
No , Sir , he just tried to make himself miserable .
Not once that long day did he poke so much as the tip of his nose out of his little round doorway .
Ever so many times Farmer Brown 's boy came to see him , and whistled and called softly to him .
But Chatterer did n't make a sound .
At last night came , and the woodshed where his prison was grew dark and darker and very still .
Now it was about this time that Chatterer 's stomach began to make itself felt .
Chatterer tried not to notice it , but his stomach would be noticed , and Chatterer could n't help himself .
His stomach was empty , and it kept telling him so .
`` I 'm going to starve to death , '' said Chatterer to himself over and over .
`` I 'm empty , and there is plenty of food to fill me up , if you 'll only stop being silly , '' whispered his stomach .
The more Chatterer tried not to think of how good something to eat would taste , the more he did think of it .
It made him restless and uneasy .
He twisted and squirmed and turned .
At last he decided that he would have one more look to see if he could n't find some way to get out of his prison .
He poked his head out of the little round doorway .
All was still and dark .
He listened , but not a sound could he hear .
Then he softly crept out and hurriedly examined all the inside of his prison once more .
It was of no use !
There was n't a single place where he could use his sharp teeth .
`` There 's that little pile of corn waiting for me , '' whispered his stomach .
`` I 'll never touch it ! ''
said Chatterer fiercely .
Just then he hit something with his foot , and it rolled .
He picked it up and then put it down again .
It was a nut , a plump hickory nut .
Two or three times he picked it up and put it down , and each time it was harder than before to put it down .
`` I -- I -- I 'd like to taste one more nut before I starve to death , '' muttered Chatterer , and almost without knowing it , he began to gnaw the hard shell .
When that nut was finished , he found another ; and when that was gone , still another .
Then he just had to taste a grain of corn .
The first thing Chatterer knew , the nuts and the corn were all gone , and his stomach was full .
Somehow he felt ever so much better .
He did n't feel like starving to death now .
`` I -- I believe I 'll wait a bit and see what happens , '' said he to himself , `` and while I 'm waiting , I may as well be comfortable . ''
With that he began to carry the shavings and rags into the hollow stump and soon had as comfortable a bed as ever he had slept on .
Chatterer had decided to live .
XV FARMER BROWN 'S BOY TRIES TO MAKE FRIENDS Nobody lives who 's wholly bad ; Some good you 'll find in every heart .
Your enemies will be your friends .
If only you will do your part .
All his life Chatterer the Red Squirrel had looked on Farmer Brown 's boy as his enemy , just as did all the other little people of the Green Meadows , the Green Forest , and the Smiling Pool .
They feared him , and because they feared him , they hated him .
So whenever he came near , they ran away .
Now at first , Farmer Brown 's boy used to run after them for just one thing -- because he wanted to make friends with them , and he could n't see how ever he was going to do it unless he caught them .
After a while , when he found that he could n't catch them by running after them , he made up his mind that they did n't want to be his friends , and so then he began to hunt them , because he thought it was fun to try to outwit them .
Of course , when he began to do that , they hated him and feared him all the more .
You see , they did n't understand that really he had one of the kindest hearts in the world ; and he did n't understand that they hated him just because they did n't know him .
So when Chatterer had been caught in the trap in Farmer Brown 's corn-crib , he had n't doubted in the least that Farmer Brown 's boy would give him to Black Pussy or do something equally cruel ; and even when he found that he was only to be kept a prisoner in a very comfortable prison , with plenty to eat and drink , he was n't willing to believe any good of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Indeed , he hated him more than ever , if that were possible .
But Farmer Brown 's boy was very patient .
He came to Chatterer 's prison ever so many times a day and whistled and clucked and talked to Chatterer .
And he brought good things to eat .
It seemed as if he were all the time trying to think of some new treat for Chatterer .
He never came without bringing something .
At first , Chatterer would hide in his hollow stump as soon as he saw Farmer Brown 's boy coming and would n't so much as peek out until he had gone away .
When he was sure that the way was clear , he would come out again , and always he found some delicious fat nuts or some other dainty waiting for him .
After a little , as soon as he saw Farmer Brown 's boy coming , Chatterer would begin to wonder what good thing he had brought this time , and would grow terribly impatient for Farmer Brown 's boy to go away so that he could find out .
By and by it got so that he could n't wait , but would slyly peep out of his little , round doorway to see what had been brought for him .
Then one day Farmer Brown 's boy did n't come at all .
Chatterer tried to make himself believe that he was glad .
He told himself that he hated Farmer Brown 's boy , and he hoped that he never , never would see him again .
But all the time he knew that it was n't true .
It was the longest day since Chatterer had been a prisoner .
Early the next morning , before Chatterer was out of bed , he heard a step in the woodshed , and before he thought what he was doing , he was out of his hollow stump to see if it really was Farmer Brown 's boy .
It was , and he had three great fat nuts which he dropped into Chatterer 's cage .
It seemed to Chatterer that he just could n't wait for Farmer Brown 's boy to go away .
Finally he darted forward and seized one .
Then he scampered to the shelter of his hollow stump to eat it .
When it was finished , he just had to have another .
Farmer Brown 's boy was still watching , but somehow Chatterer did n't feel so much afraid .
This time he sat up on one of the little branches of the stump and ate it in plain sight .
Farmer Brown 's boy smiled , and it was a pleasant smile .
`` I believe we shall be friends , after all , '' said he .
XVI CHATTERER HAS A PLEASANT SURPRISE Chatterer the Red Squirrel , the mischief maker of the Green Forest , had never been more comfortable in his life .
No matter how rough Brother North Wind roared across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , piling the snow in great drifts , he could n't send so much as one tiny shiver through the little red coat of Chatterer .
And always right at hand was plenty to eat -- corn and nuts and other good things such as Chatterer loves .
No , he never had been so comfortable in all his life .
But he was n't happy , not truly happy .
You see , he was in prison , and no matter how nice a prison may be , no one can be truly happy there .
Since he had been a prisoner , Chatterer had learned to think very differently of Farmer Brown 's boy from what he used to think .
In fact , he and Farmer Brown 's boy had become very good friends , for Farmer Brown 's boy was always very gentle , and always brought him something good to eat .
`` He is n't at all like what I had thought , '' said Chatterer , `` and if I were free , I would n't be afraid of him at all .
I -- I 'd like to tell some of the other little Green Forest people about him .
If only -- '' Chatterer did n't finish .
Instead a great lump filled his throat .
You see , he was thinking of the Green Forest and the Old Orchard , and how he used to race through the tree-tops and along the stone wall .
Half the fun in life had been in running and jumping , and now there was n't room in this little prison to stretch his legs .
If only he could run -- run as hard as ever he knew how -- once in a while , he felt that his prison would n't be quite so hard to put up with .
That very afternoon , while Chatterer was taking a nap in his bed in the hollow stump , something was slipped over his little round doorway , and Chatterer awoke in a terrible fright to find himself a prisoner inside his hollow stump .
There was nothing he could do about it but just lie there in his bed , and shake with fright , and wonder what dreadful thing was going to happen next .
He could hear Farmer Brown 's boy very busy about something in his cage .
After a long , long time , his little round doorway let in the light once more .
The door had been opened .
At first Chatterer did n't dare go out , but he heard the soft little whistle with which Farmer Brown 's boy always called him when he had something especially nice for him to eat , so at last he peeped out .
There on the floor of the cage were some of the nicest nuts .
Chatterer came out at once .
Then his sharp eyes discovered something else .
It was a queer looking thing made of wire at one end of his cage .
Chatterer looked at it with great suspicion .
Could it be a new kind of trap ?
But what would a trap be doing there , when he was already a prisoner ?
He ate all the nuts , all the time watching this new , queer looking thing .
It seemed harmless enough .
He went a little nearer .
Finally he hopped into it .
It moved .
Of course that frightened him , and he started to run up .
But he did n't go up .
No , Sir , he did n't go up .
You see , he was in a wire wheel ; and as he ran , the wheel went around .
Chatterer was terribly frightened , and the faster he tried to run , the faster the wheel went around .
Finally he had to stop , because he was out of breath and too tired to run another step .
When he stopped , the wheel stopped .
Little by little , Chatterer began to understand .
Farmer Brown 's boy had made that wheel to give him a chance to run all he wanted to and whenever he wanted to .
When he understood this , Chatterer was as nearly happy as he could be in a prison .
It was such a pleasant surprise !
He would race and race in it until he just had to stop for breath .
Farmer Brown 's boy looked on and laughed to see how much happier he had made Chatterer .
XVII SAMMY JAY 'S SHARP EYES Everybody knows that Sammy Jay has sharp eyes .
In fact , there are very few of the little forest people whose eyes are as sharp as Sammy 's .
That is because he uses them so much .
A long time ago he found out that the more he used his eyes , the sharper they became , and so there are very few minutes when Sammy is awake that he is n't trying to see something .
He is always looking .
That is the reason he always knows so much about what is going on in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows .
Now of course Chatterer the Red Squirrel could n't disappear without being missed , particularly by Sammy Jay .
And of course Sammy could n't miss Chatterer and not wonder what had become of him .
At first , Sammy thought that Chatterer was hiding , but after peeking and peering and watching in the Old Orchard for a few days , he was forced to think that either Chatterer had once more moved or else that something had happened to him .
`` Perhaps Shadow the Weasel has caught him , after all , '' thought Sammy , and straightway flew to a certain place in the Green Forest where he might find Shadow the Weasel .
Sure enough , Shadow was there .
Now of course it would n't do to ask right out if Shadow had caught Chatterer , and Sammy was smart enough to know it .
Illustration : `` You tell Chatterer that I 'll get him yet ! ''
snarled Shadow .
`` Chatterer the Red Squirrel sends his respects and hopes you are enjoying your hunt for him , '' called Sammy .
Shadow looked up at Sammy , and anger blazed in his little , red eyes .
`` You tell Chatterer that I 'll get him yet ! ''
snarled Shadow .
Sammy 's eyes sparkled with mischief .
He had made Shadow angry , and he had found out what he wanted to know .
He was sure that Shadow had not caught Chatterer .
`` But what can have become of him ? ''
thought Sammy .
`` I 've got no love for him , but just the same I miss him .
I really must find out .
Yes , Sir , I really must . ''
So every minute that he could spare , Sammy Jay spent trying to find Chatterer .
He asked every one he met if they had seen Chatterer .
He peeked and peered into every hollow and hiding place he could think of .
But look as he would and ask as he would , he could find no trace of Chatterer .
At last he happened to think of Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
Could it be that Chatterer had moved over there or had come to some dreadful end there ?
Very early the next morning , Sammy flew over to the corn-crib .
He looked it all over with his sharp eyes and listened for sounds of Chatterer inside .
But not a sound could he hear .
Then he remembered the hole under the edge of the roof through which Chatterer used to go in and out .
Sammy hurried to look at it .
It was closed by a stout board nailed across it .
Then Sammy knew that Farmer Brown 's boy had found it .
`` He 's killed Chatterer , that 's what he 's done ! ''
cried Sammy , and flew over to the Old Orchard filled with sad thoughts .
He meant to wait until Farmer Brown 's boy came out and then tell him what he thought of him .
After that , he would fly through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows to spread the sad news .
After a while , the door of the farmhouse opened , and Farmer Brown 's boy stepped out .
Sammy had his mouth open to scream , when his sharp eyes saw something queer .
Farmer Brown 's boy had a queer looking box in his arms which he put on a shelf where the sun would shine on it .
It looked to Sammy as if something moved inside that box .
He forgot to scream and say the bad things he had planned to say .
He waited until Farmer Brown 's boy had gone to the barn .
Then Sammy flew where he could look right into the queer box .
There was Chatterer the Red Squirrel !
XVIII CHATTERER IS MADE FUN OF `` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Smarty caught at last ! ''
Sammy Jay fairly shrieked with glee , as he peered down from the top of an apple-tree at Chatterer , in the cage Farmer Brown 's boy had made for him .
Sammy was so relieved to think that Chatterer was not dead , and he was so tickled to think that Chatterer , who always thought himself so smart , should have been caught , that he just had to torment Chatterer by laughing at him and saying mean things to him , until Chatterer lost his temper and said things back quite in the old way .
This tickled Sammy more than ever , for it sounded so exactly like Chatterer when he had been a free little imp of mischief in the Green Forest , that Sammy felt sure that Chatterer had nothing the matter with him .
But he could n't stop very long to make fun of poor Chatterer .
In the first place Farmer Brown 's boy had put his head out the barn door to see what all the fuss was about .
In the second place , Sammy fairly ached all over to spread the news through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows .
You know he is a great gossip .
And this was such unusual news .
Sammy knew very well that no one would believe him .
He knew that they just could n't believe that smart Mr. Chatterer had really been caught .
And no one did believe it .
`` All right , '' Sammy would reply .
`` It does n't make the least bit of difference in the world to me whether you believe it or not .
You can go up to Farmer Brown 's house and see him in prison yourself , just as I did . ''
So late that afternoon , when all was quiet around the farmyard , Chatterer saw something very familiar behind the old stone wall at the edge of the Old Orchard .
It bobbed up and then dropped out of sight again .
Then it bobbed up again , only to drop out of sight just as quickly .
`` It looks to me very much as if Peter Rabbit is over there and feeling very nervous , '' said Chatterer to himself , and then he called sharply , just as when he was free in the Green Forest .
Right away Peter 's head bobbed up for all the world like a jack-in-the-box , and this time it stayed up .
Peter 's eyes were round with surprise , as he stared across at Chatterer 's prison .
`` Oh , it 's true ! ''
gasped Peter , as if it were as hard work to believe his own eyes as it was to believe Sammy Jay .
`` I must go right away and see what can be done to get Chatterer out of trouble . ''
And then , because it was broad daylight , and he really did n't dare stay another minute , Peter waved good-by to Chatterer and started for the Green Forest as fast as his long legs could take him .
A little later who should appear peeping over the stone wall but Reddy Fox .
It seemed very bold of Reddy , but really it was n't nearly as bold as it seemed .
You see , Reddy knew that Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound were over in the Old Pasture , and that he had nothing to fear .
He grinned at Chatterer in the most provoking way .
It made Chatterer angry just to see him .
`` Smarty , Smarty , Mr. Smarty , Glad to see you looking hearty !
Weather 's fine , as you can see ; Wo n't you take a walk with me ? ''
So said Reddy Fox , knowing all the time that Chatterer could n't take a walk with any one .
At first Chatterer scolded and called Reddy all the bad names he could think of , but after a little he did n't feel so much like scolding .
In fact , he did n't half hear the mean things Reddy Fox said to him .
You see , it was coming over him more and more that nothing could take the place of freedom .
He had a comfortable home , plenty to eat , and was safe from every harm , but he was a prisoner , and having these visitors made him realize it more than ever .
Something very like tears filled his eyes , and he crept into his hollow stump where he could n't see or be seen .
XIX PETER RABBIT TRIES TO HELP Peter Rabbit is one of the kindest hearted little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows .
He is happy-go-lucky , and his dreadful curiosity is forever getting him into all kinds of trouble .
Perhaps it is because he has been in so many scrapes himself that he always feels sorry for others who get into trouble .
Anyway , no sooner does Peter hear of some one in trouble , than he begins to wonder how he can help them .
So just as soon as he found out for himself that Sammy Jay had told the truth about Chatterer the Red Squirrel , and that Chatterer really was in a prison at Farmer Brown 's house , he began to think and think to find some way to help Chatterer .
Now of course Peter did n't know what kind of a prison Chatterer was in .
He remembered right away how Prickly Porky the Porcupine had gnawed a great hole in the box in which Johnny Chuck 's lost baby was kept by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Why should n't Prickly Porky do as much for Chatterer ?
He would go see him at once .
The trouble with Peter is that he does n't think of all sides of a question .
He is impulsive .
That is , he goes right ahead and does the thing that comes into his head first , and sometimes this is n't the wisest or best thing to do .
So now he scampered down into the Green Forest as fast as his long legs would carry him , to hunt for Prickly Porky .
It was no trouble at all to find him , for he had only to follow the line of trees that had been stripped of their bark .
`` Good afternoon , Prickly Porky .
Have you heard the news about Chatterer ? ''
said Peter , talking very fast , for he was quite out of breath .
`` Yes , '' replied Prickly Porky .
`` Serves him right .
I hope it will teach him a lesson . ''
Peter 's heart sank .
`` Do n't you think it is dreadful ? ''
he asked .
`` Just think , he will never , never be able to run and play in the Green Forest again , unless we can get him out . ''
`` So much the better , '' grunted Prickly Porky .
`` So much the better .
He always was a nuisance .
Never did see such a fellow for making trouble for other people .
No , Sir , I never did .
The rest of us can have some peace now .
Serves him right . ''
Prickly Porky went on chewing bark as if Chatterer 's trouble was no concern of his .
Peter 's heart sank lower still .
He scratched one long ear slowly with a long hind foot , which is a way he has when he is thinking very hard .
He was so busy thinking that he did n't see the twinkle in the dull little eyes of Prickly Porky , who really was not so hard-hearted as his words sounded .
After a long time , during which Peter thought and thought , and Prickly Porky ate and ate , the latter spoke again .
`` What have you got on your mind , Peter ? ''
he asked .
`` I -- I was just thinking how perfectly splendid it would be if you would go up there and gnaw a way out of his prison for Chatterer , '' replied Peter timidly .
`` Huh ! ''
grunted Prickly Porky .
`` Huh !
Some folks think my wits are pretty slow , but even I know better than that .
Put on your thinking cap again , Peter Rabbit . ''
`` Why ca n't you ?
You are not afraid of Bowser the Hound or Farmer Brown 's boy , and everybody else is , excepting Jimmy Skunk , '' persisted Peter .
`` For the very good reason that if I could gnaw into his prison , Chatterer could gnaw out .
If he ca n't gnaw his way out with those sharp teeth of his , I certainly ca n't gnaw in .
Where 's your common sense , Peter Rabbit ? ''
`` That 's so .
I had n't thought of that , '' replied Peter slowly and sorrowfully .
`` I must try to think of some other way to help Chatterer . ''
`` I 'd be willing to try if it was of any use .
But it is n't , '' said Prickly Porky , who did n't want Peter to think that he really was as hard-hearted as he had seemed at first .
Illustration : `` I 'd be willing to try it if it was of any use .
But it is n't , '' said Prickly Porky .
So Peter bade Prickly Porky good-by and started for the dear old Briar-patch to try to think of some other way to help Chatterer .
On the way he waked up Unc ' Billy Possum and Bobby Coon , but they could n't give him any help .
`` There really does n't seem to be any way I can help , '' sighed Peter .
And there really was n't .
XX CHATTERER HAS ANOTHER GREAT SURPRISE Chatterer had never had so many surprises -- good surprises -- in all his life , as since the day he had been caught in a trap in Farmer Brown 's corn-crib .
In the first place , it had been a great surprise to him that he had not been given to Black Pussy , as he had fully expected to be .
Then had come the even greater surprise of finding that Farmer Brown 's boy was ever and ever so much nicer than he had thought .
A later surprise had been the wire wheel in his cage , so that he could run to his heart 's content .
It was such a pleasant and wholly unexpected surprise that it had quite changed Chatterer 's feelings towards Farmer Brown 's boy .
The fact is , Chatterer could have been truly happy but for one thing -- he was a prisoner .
Yes , Sir , he was a prisoner , and he could n't forget it for one minute while he was awake .
He used to watch Farmer Brown 's boy and wish with all his might that he could make him understand how dreadful it was to be in a prison .
But Farmer Brown 's boy could n't understand what Chatterer said , no matter how hard Chatterer tried to make him .
He seemed to think that Chatterer was happy .
He just did n't understand that not all the good things in the world could make up for loss of freedom -- that it is better to be free , though hungry and cold , than in a prison with every comfort .
Chatterer had stood it pretty well and made the best of things until Sammy Jay had found him , and Reddy Fox had made fun of him , and Peter Rabbit had peeped at him from behind the old stone wall .
The very sight of them going where they pleased and when they pleased had been too much for Chatterer , and such a great longing for the Green Forest and the Old Orchard filled his heart that he could think of nothing else .
He just sat in a corner of his cage and looked as miserable as he felt .
He lost his appetite .
In vain Farmer Brown 's boy brought him the fattest nuts and other dainties .
He could n't eat for the great longing for freedom that filled his heart until it seemed ready to burst .
He no longer cared to run in the new wire wheel which had given him so much pleasure at first .
He was homesick , terribly homesick , and he just could n't help it .
Farmer Brown 's boy noticed it , and his face grew sober and thoughtful .
He watched Chatterer when the latter did n't know that he was about , and if he could n't understand Chatterer 's talk , he could understand Chatterer 's actions .
He knew that he was unhappy and guessed why .
One morning Chatterer did not come out of his hollow stump as he usually did when his cage was placed on the shelf outside the farmhouse door .
He just did n't feel like it .
He stayed curled up in his bed for a long , long time , too sad and miserable to move .
At last he crawled up and peeped out of his little round doorway .
Chatterer gave a little gasp and rubbed his eyes .
Was he dreaming ?
He scrambled out in a hurry and peeped through the wires of his cage .
Then he rubbed his eyes again and rushed over to the other side of the cage for another look .
His cage was n't on the usual shelf at all !
It was on the snow-covered stone wall at the edge of the Old Orchard .
Chatterer was so excited he did n't know what to do .
He raced around the cage .
Then he jumped into the wire wheel and made it spin round and round as never before .
When he was too tired to run any more , he jumped out .
And right then he discovered something he had n't noticed before .
The little door in the top of his cage was open !
It must be that Farmer Brown 's boy had forgotten to close it when he put in Chatterer 's breakfast .
Chatterer forgot that he was tired .
Like a little red flash he was outside and whisking along the snow-covered stone wall straight for his home in the Old Orchard .
`` Chickaree !
Chickaree !
Chickaree ! ''
he shouted as he ran .
XXI CHATTERER HEARS THE SMALL VOICE The very first of the little meadow and forest people to see Chatterer after he had safely reached the Old Orchard , was Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
It just happened that Tommy was very busy in the very apple-tree in which was the old home of Drummer the Woodpecker when Chatterer reached it .
You know Chatterer had moved into it for the winter just a little while before he had been caught in the corn-crib by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Yes , Sir , Tommy was very busy , indeed .
He was so busy that , sharp as his bright little eyes are , he had not seen Chatterer racing along the snow-covered old stone wall .
It was n't until he heard Chatterer 's claws on the trunk of the apple-tree that Tommy saw him at all .
Then he was so surprised that he lost his balance and almost turned a somersault in the air before he caught another twig .
You see , he knew all about Chatterer and how he had been kept a prisoner by Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Why !
Whye-e !
Is this really you , Chatterer ? ''
he exclaimed .
`` However did you get out of your prison ?
I 'm glad , ever and ever so glad , that you got away . ''
Chatterer flirted his tail in the saucy way he has , and his eyes twinkled .
Here was just the best chance ever to boast and brag .
He could tell Tommy Tit how smart he had been -- smart enough to get away from Farmer Brown 's boy .
Tommy Tit would tell the other little people , and then everybody would think him just as smart as Unc ' Billy Possum ; and you know Unc ' Billy really was smart enough to get away from Farmer Brown 's boy after being caught .
Everybody knew that he had been a prisoner , and now that he was free , everybody would believe whatever he told them about how he got away .
Was there ever such a chance to make his friends and neighbors say : `` What a smart fellow he is ! ''
`` I -- I -- '' Chatterer stopped .
Then he began again .
`` You see , it was this way : I -- I -- '' Somehow , Chatterer could n't say what he had meant to say .
It seemed as if Tommy Tit 's bright , merry eyes were looking right into his head and heart and could see his very thoughts .
Of course they could n't .
The truth is that little small voice inside , which Chatterer had so often refused to listen to when he was tempted to do wrong , was talking again .
It was saying : `` For shame , Chatterer !
For shame !
Tell the truth .
Tell the truth . ''
It was that little small voice that made Chatterer hesitate and stop .
`` You do n't mean to say that you were smart enough to fool Farmer Brown 's boy and get out of that stout little prison he made for you , do you ? ''
asked Tommy Tit .
`` No , '' replied Chatterer , almost before he thought .
`` No , I did n't .
The fact is , Tommy Tit , he left the door open purposely .
He let me go .
Farmer Brown 's boy is n't half so bad as some people think . ''
`` Dee , dee , dee , '' laughed Tommy Tit .
`` I 've been telling a lot of you fellows that for a long time , but none of you would believe me .
Now I guess you know it .
Why , I 'm not the least bit afraid of Farmer Brown 's boy -- not the least little bit in the world .
If all the little forest and meadow people would only trust him , instead of running away from him , he would be the very best friend we have . ''
`` Perhaps so , '' replied Chatterer doubtfully .
`` He was very good to me while I was in his prison , and -- and I 'm not so very much afraid of him now .
Just the same , I do n't mean to let him get hands on me again . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
said Tommy Tit .
`` Pooh !
I 'd just as soon eat out of his hand . ''
`` That 's all very well for you to say , when you are flying around free , but I do n't believe you dare go up to his house and prove it , '' retorted Chatterer .
`` Ca n't now , '' replied Tommy .
`` I 've got too much to do for him right now , but some day I 'll show you .
Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
I 'm wasting my time talking when there is such a lot to be done .
I am clearing his apple-trees of insect eggs . ''
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Go it , you little red scamp ! ''
shouted a voice behind him .
Then Chatterer knew that Farmer Brown 's boy had not left the little door open by mistake , but had given him his freedom , and right then he knew that they were going to be the best of friends .
XXII TOMMY TIT MAKES GOOD HIS BOAST `` Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
See me !
See me ! ''
Tommy Tit the Chickadee kept saying this over and over , as he flew from the Green Forest up through the Old Orchard on his way to Farmer Brown 's dooryard , and his voice was merry .
In fact , his voice was the merriest , cheeriest sound to be heard that bright , snapping , cold morning .
To be sure there were other voices , but they were not merry , nor were they cheery .
There was the voice of Sammy Jay , but it sounded peevish and discontented .
And there was the voice of Blacky the Crow , but it sounded harsh and unpleasant .
And there was the voice of Chatterer the Red Squirrel , but Chatterer was scolding just from habit , and his voice was not pleasant to hear .
So every one who heard Tommy Tit 's cheery voice that cold winter morning just had to smile .
Yes , Sir , they just had to smile , even Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow .
They just could n't help themselves .
When Tommy reached the stone wall that separated the Old Orchard from Farmer Brown 's dooryard , his sharp eyes were not long in finding Peter Rabbit , and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and Chatterer hiding in the old wall where they could peep out and see all that happened in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Looking back through the Old Orchard , he saw what looked like a little bit of the blue , blue sky flitting silently from tree to tree .
It was Sammy Jay .
Over in the very top of a tall maple-tree , a long way off , was a spot of black .
Tommy did n't need to be told that it was Blacky the Crow , who did n't dare come any nearer .
Tommy fairly bubbled over with joy .
He knew what it all meant .
He knew that Peter Rabbit and Happy Jack and Chatterer and Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow had come to see him make good his boast to Chatterer that he would eat from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , and that not one of them really believed that he would do it .
He tickled all over and cut up all sorts of capers , just for pure joy .
Finally he flew over to the maple-tree that grows close by Farmer Brown 's house .
`` Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
See me !
See me ! ''
called Tommy Tit , and his voice sounded cheerier than ever and merrier than ever .
Then the door of Farmer Brown 's house opened , and out stepped Farmer Brown 's boy and looked up at Tommy Tit , and the look in his eyes was gentle and good to see .
He pursed up his lips , and from them came the softest , sweetest whistle , and it sounded like `` Phoe-be . ''
Peter Rabbit pinched himself to be sure that he was awake , for it was Tommy Tit 's own love note , and if Peter had not been looking straight at Farmer Brown 's boy , he would have been sure that it was Tommy himself who had whistled .
`` Phoe-be , '' whistled Farmer Brown 's boy again .
`` Phoe-be , '' replied Tommy Tit , and it was hard to say which whistle was the softest and sweetest .
`` Phoe-be , '' whistled Farmer Brown 's boy once more and held out his hand .
In it was a cracked hickory nut .
`` Dee , dee , dee !
See me !
See me ! ''
cried Tommy Tit and flitted down from the maple-tree right on to the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , and his bright little eyes twinkled merrily as he helped himself to a bit of nut meat .
Peter Rabbit looked at Happy Jack , and Happy Jack looked at Chatterer , and all three acted as if they could n't believe their own eyes .
Then they looked back at Farmer Brown 's boy , and there on his head sat Tommy Tit .
`` Dee , dee , dee , chickadee !
See me !
See me ! ''
called Tommy Tit , and his voice was merrier than ever , for he had made good his boast .
XXIII CHATTERER GROWS VERY , VERY BOLD `` I 'm not afraid .
I am afraid .
I 'm not afraid .
I am afraid .
I 'm not afraid . ''
Chatterer kept saying these two things over and over and over again to himself .
You see , he really was afraid , and he was trying to make himself believe that he was n't afraid .
He thought that perhaps if he said ever and ever so many times that he was n't afraid , he might actually make himself believe it .
The trouble was that every time he said it , a little voice , a little , truthful voice down inside , seemed to speak right up and tell him that he was afraid .
Poor Chatterer !
It hurt his pride to have to own to himself that he was n't as brave as little Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
His common sense told him that there was no reason in the world why he should n't be .
Tommy Tit went every day and took food from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy .
It seemed to Chatterer , and to Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , and to Peter Rabbit , and to Sammy Jay , and to Blacky the Crow , all of whom had seen him do it , as if it were the very bravest thing they ever had seen , and their respect for Tommy Tit grew wonderfully .
But Tommy Tit himself did n't think it brave at all .
No , Sir , Tommy knew better .
You see , he has a great deal of common sense under the little black cap he wears .
`` It may have been brave of me to do it the first time , '' thought he to himself , when the others told him how brave they thought him , `` but it is n't brave of me now , because I know that no harm is going to come to me from Farmer Brown 's boy .
There is n't any bravery about it , and it might be just the same way with Chatterer and all the other little forest and meadow people , if only they would think so , and give Farmer Brown 's boy half a chance . ''
Chatterer was beginning to have some such thoughts himself , as he tried to make himself think that he was n't afraid .
He heard the door of Farmer Brown 's house slam and peeped out from the old stone wall .
There was Farmer Brown 's boy with a big , fat hickory nut held out in the most tempting way , and Farmer Brown 's boy was whistling the same gentle little whistle he had used when Chatterer was his prisoner , and he had brought good things for Chatterer to eat .
Of course Chatterer knew perfectly well that that whistle was a call for him , and that that big fat hickory nut was intended for him .
Almost before he thought , he had left the old stone wall and was half way over to Farmer Brown 's boy .
Then he stopped short .
It seemed as if that little voice inside had fairly shouted in his ears : `` I am afraid . ''
It was true ; he was afraid .
He was right on the very point of turning to scurry back to the old stone wall , when he heard another voice .
This time it was n't a voice inside .
No , indeed !
It was a voice from the top of one of the apple-trees in the Old Orchard , and this is what it said : `` Coward !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
It was Sammy Jay speaking .
Now it is one thing to tell yourself that you are afraid , and it is quite another thing to be told by some one else that you are afraid .
`` No such thing !
No such thing !
I 'm not afraid ! ''
scolded Chatterer , and then to prove it , he suddenly raced forward , snatched the fat hickory nut from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , and was back in the old stone wall .
It was hard to tell which was the most surprised -- Chatterer himself , Farmer Brown 's boy , or Sammy Jay .
`` I did it !
I did it !
I did it ! ''
boasted Chatterer .
`` You do n't dare do it again , though ! ''
said Sammy Jay , in the most provoking and unpleasant way .
`` I do too ! ''
snapped Chatterer , and he did it .
And with the taking of that second fat nut from the hand of Farmer Brown 's boy , the very last bit of fear of him left Chatterer , and he knew that Tommy Tit the Chickadee had been right all the time when he insisted that there was nothing to fear from Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Why , '' thought Chatterer , `` if I would have let him , he would have been my friend long ago ! ''
And so he would have .
And this is all about Chatterer the Red Squirrel for now .
Sammy Jay insists that it is his turn now , and so the next book will be about his adventures .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Danny_Meadow_Mouse.txt.out
CHAPTER I Danny Meadow Mouse Is Worried Danny Meadow Mouse sat on his door-step with his chin in his hands , and it was very plain to see that Danny had something on his mind .
He had only a nod for Jimmy Skunk , and even Peter Rabbit could get no more than a grumpy `` Good morning . ''
It was n't that he had been caught napping the day before by Reddy Fox and nearly made an end of .
No , it was n't that .
Danny had learned his lesson , and Reddy would never catch him again .
It was n't that he was all alone with no one to play with .
Danny was rather glad that he was alone .
The fact is , Danny Meadow Mouse was worried .
Now worry is one of the worst things in the world , and it did n't seem as if there was anything that Danny Meadow Mouse need worry about .
But you know it is the easiest thing in the world to find something to worry over and make yourself uncomfortable about .
And when you make yourself uncomfortable , you are almost sure to make everyone around you equally uncomfortable .
It was so with Danny Meadow Mouse .
Striped Chipmunk had twice called him `` Cross Patch '' that morning , and Johnny Chuck , who had fought Reddy Fox for him the day before , had called him `` Grumpy . ''
And what do you think was the matter with Danny Meadow Mouse ?
Why , he was worrying because his tail was short .
Yes , sir , that is all that ailed Danny Meadow Mouse that bright morning .
You know some people let their looks make them miserable .
They worry because they are homely or freckled , or short or tall , or thin or stout , all of which is very foolish .
And Danny Meadow Mouse was just as foolish in worrying because his tail was short .
It is short !
It certainly is all of that !
Danny never had realized how short until he chanced to meet his cousin Whitefoot , who lives in the Green Forest .
He was very elegantly dressed , but the most imposing thing about him was his long , slim , beautiful tail .
Danny had at once become conscious of his own stubby little tail , and he had hardly had pride enough to hold his head up as became an honest Meadow Mouse .
Ever since he had been thinking and thinking , and wondering how his family came to have such short tails .
Then he grew envious and began to wish and wish and wish that he could have a long tail like his cousin Whitefoot .
He was so busy wishing that he had a long tail that he quite forgot to take care of the tail he did have , and he pretty nearly lost it and his life with it .
Old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk spied Danny sitting there moping on his doorstep , and came sailing over the tops of the meadow grasses so softly that he all but caught Danny .
If it had n't been for one of the Merry Little Breezes , Danny would have been caught .
And all because he was envious .
It 's a bad , bad habit .
CHAPTER II Danny Meadow Mouse and His Short Tail All Danny Meadow Mouse could think about was his short tail .
He was so ashamed of it that whenever anyone passed , he crawled out of sight so that they should not see how short his tail was .
Instead of playing in the sunshine as he used to do , he sat and sulked .
Pretty soon his friends began to pass without stopping .
Finally one day old Mr. Toad sat down in front of Danny and began to ask questions .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
asked old Mr. Toad .
`` Nothing , '' replied Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` I do n't suppose there really is anything the matter , but what do you think is the matter ? ''
said old Mr. Toad .
Danny fidgeted , and old Mr. Toad looked up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and winked .
`` Sun is just as bright as ever , is n't it ? ''
he inquired .
`` Yes , '' said Danny .
`` Got plenty to eat and drink , have n't you ? ''
continued Mr. Toad .
`` Yes , '' said Danny .
`` Seems to me that that is a pretty good-looking suit of clothes you 're wearing , '' said Mr. Toad , eyeing Danny critically .
`` Sunny weather , plenty to eat and drink , and good clothes -- must be you do n't know when you 're well off , Danny Meadow Mouse . ''
Danny hung his head .
Finally he looked up and caught a kindly twinkle in old Mr. Toad 's eyes .
`` Mr. Toad , how can I get a long tail like my cousin Whitefoot of the Green Forest ? ''
he asked .
`` So that 's what 's the matter !
Ha !
ha !
ha !
Danny Meadow Mouse , I 'm ashamed of you !
I certainly am ashamed of you ! ''
said Mr. Toad .
`` What good would a long tail do you ?
Tell me that . ''
For a minute Danny did n't know just what to say .
`` I -- I -- I 'd look so much better if I had a long tail , '' he ventured .
Old Mr. Toad just laughed .
`` You never saw a Meadow Mouse with a long tail , did you ?
Of course not .
What a sight it would be !
Why , everybody on the Green Meadows would laugh themselves sick at the sight !
You see you need to be slim and trim and handsome to carry a long tail well .
And then what a nuisance it would be !
You would always have to be thinking of your tail and taking care to keep it out of harm 's way .
Look at me .
I 'm homely .
Some folks call me ugly to look at .
But no one tries to catch me as Farmer Brown 's boy does Billy Mink because of his fine coat ; and no one wants to put me in a cage because of a fine voice .
I am satisfied to be just as I am , and if you 'll take my advice , Danny Meadow Mouse , you 'll be satisfied to be just as you are . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Old Mr. Toad gave Danny some good advice . -RSB-
`` Perhaps you are right , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse after a little .
`` I 'll try . ''
CHAPTER III Danny Meadow Mouse Plays Hide and Seek Life is always a game of hide and seek to Danny Meadow Mouse .
You see , he is such a fat little fellow that there are a great many other furry-coated people , and almost as many who wear feathers , who would gobble Danny up for breakfast or for dinner if they could .
Some of them pretend to be his friends , but Danny always keeps his eyes open when they are around and always begins to play hide and seek .
Peter Rabbit and Jimmy Skunk and Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel are all friends whom he can trust , but he always has a bright twinkling eye open for Reddy Fox and Billy Mink and Shadow the Weasel and old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , and several more , especially Hooty the Owl at night .
Now Danny Meadow Mouse is a stout-hearted little fellow , and when rough Brother North Wind came shouting across the Green Meadows , tearing to pieces the snow clouds and shaking out the snowflakes until they covered the Green Meadows deep , deep , deep , Danny just snuggled down in his warm coat in his snug little house of grass and waited .
Danny liked the snow .
Yes , sir , Danny Meadow Mouse liked the snow .
He just loved to dig in it and make tunnels .
Through those tunnels in every direction he could go where he pleased and when he pleased without being seen by anybody .
It was great fun !
Every little way he made a little round doorway up beside a stiff stalk of grass .
Out of this he could peep at the white world , and he could get the fresh cold air .
Sometimes , when he was quite sure that no one was around , he would scamper across on top of the snow from one doorway to another , and when he did this , he made the prettiest little footprints .
Now Reddy Fox knew all about those doorways and who made them .
Reddy was having hard work to get enough to eat this cold weather , and he was hungry most of the time .
One morning , as he came tiptoeing softly over the meadows , what should he see just ahead of him but the head of Danny Meadow Mouse pop out of one of those little round doorways .
Reddy 's mouth watered , and he stole forward more softly than ever .
When he got within jumping distance , he drew his stout hind legs under him and made ready to spring .
Presto !
Danny Meadow Mouse had disappeared !
Reddy Fox jumped just the same and began to dig as fast as he could make his paws go .
He could smell Danny Meadow Mouse and that made him almost frantic .
All the time Danny Meadow Mouse was scurrying along one of his little tunnels , and when finally Reddy Fox stopped digging because he was quite out of breath , Danny popped his head out of another little doorway and laughed at Reddy .
Of course Reddy saw him , and of course Reddy tried to catch him there , and dug frantically just as before .
And of course Danny Meadow Mouse was n't there .
After a while Reddy Fox grew tired of this kind of a game and tried another plan .
The next time he saw Danny Meadow Mouse stick his head out , Reddy pretended not to see him .
He stretched himself out on the ground and made believe that he was very tired and sleepy .
He closed his eyes .
Then he opened them just the tiniest bit , so that he could see Danny Meadow Mouse and yet seem to be asleep .
Danny watched him for a long time .
Then he chuckled to himself and dropped out of sight .
No sooner was he gone than Reddy Fox stole over close to the little doorway and waited .
`` He 'll surely stick his head out again to see if I 'm asleep , and then I 'll have him , '' said Reddy to himself .
So he waited and waited and waited .
By and by he turned his head .
There was Danny Meadow Mouse at another little doorway laughing at him !
-LSB- Illustration : Danny Meadow Mouse was laughing from another little doorway . -RSB-
CHAPTER IV Old Granny Fox Tries for Danny Meadow Mouse Danny Meadow Mouse had not enjoyed anything so much for a long time as he did that game of hide and seek .
He tickled and chuckled all the afternoon as he thought about it .
Of course Reddy had been `` it . ''
He had been `` it '' all the time , for never once had he caught Danny Meadow Mouse .
If he had -- well , there would n't have been any more stories about Danny Meadow Mouse , because there would n't have been any Danny Meadow Mouse any more .
But Danny never let himself think about this .
He had enjoyed the game all the more because it had been such a dangerous game .
It had been such fun to dive into one of his little round doorways in the snow , run along one of his own little tunnels , and then peep out at another doorway and watch Reddy Fox digging as fast as ever he could at the doorway Danny had just left .
Finally Reddy had given up in disgust and gone off muttering angrily to try to find something else for dinner .
Danny had sat up on the snow and watched him go .
In his funny little squeaky voice Danny shouted : `` Though Reddy Fox is smart and sly , Hi-hum-diddle-de-o !
I 'm just as smart and twice as spry .
Hi-hum-diddle-de-o ! ''
That night Reddy Fox told old Granny Fox all about how he had tried to catch Danny Meadow Mouse .
Granny listened with her head cocked on one side .
When Reddy told how fat Danny Meadow Mouse was , her mouth watered .
You see now that snow covered the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , Granny and Reddy Fox had hard work to get enough to eat , and they were hungry most of the time .
`` I 'll go with you down on the meadows to-morrow morning , and then we 'll see if Danny Meadow Mouse is as smart as he thinks he is , '' said Granny Fox .
So , bright and early the next morning , old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox went down on the meadows where Danny Meadow Mouse lives .
Danny had felt in his bones that Reddy would come back , so he was watching , and he saw them as soon as they came out of the Green Forest .
When he saw old Granny Fox , Danny 's heart beat a little faster than before , for he knew that Granny Fox is very smart and very wise and has learned most of the tricks of all the other little meadow and forest people .
`` This is going to be a more exciting game than the other , '' said Danny to himself , and scurried down out of sight to see that all his little tunnels were clear so that he could run fast through them if he had to .
Then he peeped out of one of his little doorways hidden in a clump of tall grass .
Old Granny Fox set Reddy to hunting for Danny 's little round doorways , and as fast as he found them , Granny came up and sniffed at each .
She knew that she could tell by the smell which one he had been at last .
Finally she came straight towards the tall bunch of grass .
Danny ducked down and scurried along one of his little tunnels .
He heard Granny Fox sniff at the doorway he had just left .
Suddenly something plunged down through the snow right at his very heels .
Danny did n't have to look to know that it was Granny Fox herself , and he squeaked with fright .
CHAPTER V What Happened on the Green Meadows Thick and fast things were happening to Danny Meadow Mouse down on the snow-covered Green Meadows .
Rather , they were almost happening .
He had n't minded when Reddy Fox all alone tried to catch him .
Indeed , he had made a regular game of hide and seek of it and had enjoyed it immensely .
But now it was different .
Granny Fox was n't so easily fooled as Reddy Fox .
Just Granny alone would have made the game dangerous for Danny Meadow Mouse .
But Reddy was with her , and so Danny had two to look out for , and he got so many frights that it seemed to him as if his heart had moved right up into his mouth and was going to stay there .
Yes , sir , that is just how it seemed .
Down in his little tunnels underneath the snow Danny Meadow Mouse felt perfectly safe from Reddy Fox , who would stop and dig frantically at the little round doorway where he had last seen Danny .
But old Granny Fox knew all about those little tunnels , and she did n't waste any time digging at the doorways .
Instead she cocked her sharp little ears and listened with all her might .
Now Granny Fox has very keen ears , oh , very keen ears , and she heard just what she hoped she would hear .
She heard Danny Meadow Mouse running along one of his little tunnels under the snow .
Plunge !
Old Granny Fox dived right into the snow and right through into the tunnel of Danny Meadow Mouse .
Her two black paws actually touched Danny 's tail .
He was glad then that it was no longer .
`` Ha ! ''
cried Granny Fox , `` I almost got him that time ! ''
Then she ran ahead a little way over the snow , listening as before .
Plunge !
Into the snow she went again .
It was lucky for him that Danny had just turned into another tunnel , for otherwise she would surely have caught him .
Granny Fox blew the snow out of her nose .
`` Next time I 'll get him ! ''
said she .
Now Reddy Fox is quick to learn , especially when it is a way to get something to eat .
He watched Granny Fox , and when he understood what she was doing , he made up his mind to have a try himself , for he was afraid that if she caught Danny Meadow Mouse , she would think that he was not big enough to divide .
Perhaps that was because Reddy is very selfish himself .
So the next time Granny plunged into the snow and missed Danny Meadow Mouse just as before , Reddy rushed in ahead of her , and the minute he heard Danny running down below , he plunged in just as he had seen Granny do .
But he did n't take the pains to make sure of just where Danny was , and so of course he did n't come anywhere near him .
But he frightened Danny still more and made old Granny Fox lose her temper .
Poor Danny Meadow Mouse !
He had never been so frightened in all his life .
He did n't know which way to turn or where to run .
And so he sat still , which , although he did n't know it , was the very best thing he could do .
When he sat still he made no noise , and so of course Granny and Reddy Fox could not tell where he was .
Old Granny Fox sat and listened and listened and listened , and wondered where Danny Meadow Mouse was .
And down under the snow Danny Meadow Mouse sat and listened and listened and listened , and wondered where Granny and Reddy Fox were .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Granny Fox after a while , `` that Meadow Mouse thinks he can fool me by sitting still .
I 'll give him a scare . ''
Then she began to plunge into the snow this way and that way , and sure enough , pretty soon she landed so close to Danny Meadow Mouse that one of her claws scratched him .
CHAPTER VI Danny Meadow Mouse Remembers and Reddy Fox Forgets `` There he goes ! ''
cried old Granny Fox .
`` Do n't let him sit still again ! ''
`` I hear him ! ''
shouted Reddy Fox , and plunged down into the snow just as Granny Fox had done a minute before .
But he did n't catch anything , and when he had blown the snow out of his nose and wiped it out of his eyes , he saw Granny Fox dive into the snow with no better luck .
`` Never mind , '' said Granny Fox , `` as long as we keep him running , we can hear him , and some one of these times we 'll catch him .
Pretty soon he 'll get too tired to be so spry , and when he is -- '' Granny did n't finish , but licked her chops and smacked her lips .
Reddy Fox grinned , then licked his chops and smacked his lips .
Then once more they took turns diving into the snow .
And down underneath in the little tunnels he had made , Danny Meadow Mouse was running for his life .
He was getting tired , just as old Granny Fox had said he would .
He was almost out of breath .
He was sore and one leg smarted , for in one of her jumps old Granny Fox had so nearly caught him that her claws had torn his pants and scratched him .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
If only I had time to think ! ''
panted Danny Meadow Mouse , and then he squealed in still greater fright as Reddy Fox crashed down into his tunnel right at his very heels .
`` I 've got to get somewhere !
I 've got to get somewhere where they ca n't get at me ! ''
he sobbed .
And right that very instant he remembered the old fence-post !
The old fence-post lay on the ground and was hollow .
Fastened to it were long wires with sharp cruel barbs .
Danny had made a tunnel over to that old fence-post the very first day after the snow came , for in that hollow in the old post he had a secret store of seeds .
Why had n't he thought of it before ?
It must have been because he was too frightened to think .
But he remembered now , and he dodged into the tunnel that led to the old fence-post , running faster than ever , for though his heart was in his mouth from fear , in his heart was hope , and hope is a wonderful thing .
Now old Granny Fox knew all about that old fence-post and she remembered all about those barbed wires fastened to it .
Although they were covered with snow she knew just about where they lay , and just before she reached them she stopped plunging down into the snow .
Reddy Fox knew about those wires ; too , but he was so excited that he forgot all about them .
`` Stop ! ''
cried old Granny Fox sharply .
But Reddy Fox did n't hear , or if he heard he did n't heed .
His sharp ears could hear Danny Meadow Mouse running almost underneath him .
Granny Fox could stop if she wanted to , but he was going to have Danny Meadow Mouse for his breakfast !
Down into the snow he plunged as hard as ever he could .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Wow !
Wow !
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
That was n't the voice of Danny Meadow Mouse .
Oh , my , no !
It was the voice of Reddy Fox .
Yes , sir , it was the voice of Reddy Fox .
He had landed with one of his black paws right on one of those sharp wire barbs , and it did hurt dreadfully .
`` I never did know a young Fox who could get into as much trouble as you can ! ''
snapped old Granny Fox , as Reddy hobbled along on three legs behind her , across the snow-covered Green Meadows .
`` It serves you right for forgetting ! ''
`` Yes 'm , '' said Reddy meekly .
And safe in the hollow of the old fence-post , Danny Meadow Mouse was dressing the scratch on his leg made by the claws of old Granny Fox .
CHAPTER VII Old Granny Fox Tries a New Plan Old Granny Fox kept thinking about Danny Meadow Mouse .
She knew that he was fat , and it made her mouth water every time she thought of him .
She made up her mind that she must and would have him .
She knew that Danny had been very , very much frightened when she and Reddy Fox had tried so hard to catch him by plunging down through the snow into his little tunnels after him , and she felt pretty sure that he would n't go far away from the old fence-post , in the hollow of which he was snug and safe .
Old Granny Fox is very smart .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse wo n't put his nose out of that old fence-post for a day or two .
Then he 'll get tired of staying inside all the time , and he 'll peep out of one of his little round doorways to see if the way is clear .
If he does n't see any danger , he 'll come out and run around on top of the snow to get some of the seeds in the tops of the tall grasses that stick out through the snow .
If nothing frightens him , he 'll keep going , a little farther and a little farther from that old fence-post .
I must see to it that Danny Meadow Mouse is n't frightened for a few days . ''
So said old Granny Fox to herself , as she lay under a hemlock tree , studying how she could best get the next meal .
Then she called Reddy Fox to her and forbade him to go down on the meadows until she should tell him he might .
Reddy grumbled and mumbled and did n't see why he should n't go where he pleased , but he did n't dare disobey .
You see he had a sore foot .
He had hurt it on a wire barb when he was plunging through the snow after Danny Meadow Mouse , and now he had to run on three legs .
That meant that he must depend upon Granny Fox to help him get enough to eat .
So Reddy did n't dare to disobey .
It all came out just as Granny Fox had thought it would .
Danny Meadow Mouse did get tired of staying in the old fence-post .
He did peep out first , and then he did run a little way on the snow , and then a little farther and a little farther .
But all the time he took great care not to get more than a jump or two from one of his little round doorways leading down to his tunnels under the snow .
Hidden on the edge of the Green Forest , Granny Fox watched him .
She looked up at the sky , and she knew that it was going to snow again .
`` That 's good , '' said she .
`` Tomorrow morning I 'll have fat Meadow Mouse for breakfast , '' and she smiled a hungry smile .
The next morning , before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was out of bed , old Granny Fox trotted down onto the meadows and straight over to where , down under the snow , lay the old fence-post .
It had snowed again , and all the little doorways of Danny Meadow Mouse were covered up with soft , fleecy snow .
Behind Granny Fox limped Reddy Fox , grumbling to himself .
When they reached the place where the old fence-post lay buried under the snow , old Granny Fox stretched out as flat as she could .
Then she told Reddy to cover her up with the new soft snow .
Reddy did as he was told , but all the time he grumbled .
`` Now you go off to the Green Forest and keep out of sight , '' said Granny Fox .
`` By and by I 'll bring you some Meadow Mouse for your breakfast , '' and Granny Fox chuckled to think how smart she was and how she was going to catch Danny Meadow Mouse .
CHAPTER VIII Brother North Wind Proves a Friend Danny Meadow Mouse had seen nothing of old Granny Fox or Reddy Fox for several days .
Every morning the first thing he did , even before he had breakfast , was to climb up to one of his little round doorways and peep out over the beautiful white meadows , to see if there was any danger near .
But every time he did this , Danny used a different doorway .
`` For , '' said Danny to himself , `` if any one should happen , just happen , to see me this morning , they might be waiting just outside my doorway to catch me to-morrow morning . ''
You see there is a great deal of wisdom in the little head that Danny Meadow Mouse carries on his shoulders .
But the first day and the second day and the third day he saw nothing of old Granny Fox or of Reddy Fox , and he began to enjoy running through his tunnels under the snow and scurrying across from one doorway to another on top of the snow , just as he had before the Foxes had tried so hard to catch him .
But he had n't forgotten , as Granny Fox had hoped he would .
No , indeed , Danny Meadow Mouse had n't forgotten .
He was too wise for that .
One morning , when he started to climb up to one of his little doorways , he found that it was closed .
Yes , sir , it was closed .
In fact , there was n't any doorway .
More snow had fallen from the clouds in the night and had covered up every one of the little round doorways of Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Ha ! ''
said Danny , `` I shall have a busy day , a very busy day , opening all my doorways .
I 'll eat my breakfast , and then I 'll go to work . ''
So Danny Meadow Mouse ate a good breakfast of seeds which he had stored in the hollow in the old fence-post buried under the snow , and then he began work on the nearest doorway .
It really was n't work at all , for you see the snow was soft and light , and Danny dearly loved to dig in it .
In a few minutes he had made a wee hole through which he could peep up at jolly , round Mr. Sun .
In a few minutes more he had made it big enough to put his head out .
He looked this way and he looked that way .
Far , far off on the top of a tree he could see old Roughleg the Hawk , but he was so far away that Danny did n't fear him at all .
`` I do n't see anything or anybody to be afraid of , '' said Danny and poked his head out a little farther .
Then he sat and studied everything around him a long , long time .
It was a beautiful white world , a very beautiful white world .
Everything was so white and pure and beautiful that it did n't seem possible that harm or danger for anyone could even be thought of .
But Danny Meadow Mouse learned long ago that things are not always what they seem , and so he sat with just his little head sticking out of his doorway and studied and studied .
Just a little way off was a little heap of snow .
`` I do n't remember that , '' said Danny .
`` And I do n't remember anything that would make that .
There is n't any little bush or old log or anything underneath it .
Perhaps rough Brother North Wind heaped it up , just for fun . ''
But all the time Danny Meadow Mouse kept studying and studying that little heap of snow .
Pretty soon he saw rough Brother North Wind coming his way and tossing the snow about as he came .
He caught a handful from the top of the little heap of snow that Danny was studying , and when he had passed , Danny 's sharp eyes saw something red there .
It was just the color of the cloak old Granny Fox wears .
`` Granny Fox , you ca n't fool me !
I see you plain as plain can be ! ''
shouted Danny Meadow Mouse and dropped down out of sight , while old Granny Fox shook the snow from her red cloak and , with a snarl of disappointment and anger , slowly started for the Green Forest , where Reddy Fox was waiting for her .
CHAPTER IX Danny Meadow Mouse Is Caught at Last `` Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe , Play and frolic in the snow !
Now you see me !
Now you do n't !
Think you 'll catch me , but you wo n't !
Tippy-toppy-tippy-toe , Oh , such fun to play in snow ! ''
Danny Meadow Mouse sang this , or at least he tried to sing it , as he skipped about on the snow that covered the Green Meadows .
But Danny Meadow Mouse has such a little voice , such a funny little squeaky voice , that had you been there you probably would never have guessed that he was singing .
He thought he was , though , and was enjoying it just as much as if he had the most beautiful voice in the world .
You know singing is nothing in the world but happiness in the heart making itself heard .
Oh , yes , Danny Meadow Mouse was happy !
Why should n't he have been ?
Had n't he proved himself smarter than old Granny Fox ?
That is something to make anyone happy .
Some folks may fool Granny Fox once ; some may fool her twice ; but there are very few who can keep right on fooling her until she gives up in disgust .
That is just what Danny Meadow Mouse had done , and he felt very smart and of course he felt very happy .
So Danny sang his little song and skipped about in the moonlight , and dodged in and out of his little round doorways , and all the time kept his sharp little eyes open for any sign of Granny Fox or Reddy Fox .
But with all his smartness , Danny forgot .
Yes , sir , Danny forgot one thing .
He forgot to watch up in the sky .
He knew that of course old Roughleg the Hawk was asleep , so he had nothing to fear from him .
But he never once thought of Hooty the Owl .
Dear me , dear me !
Forgetting is a dreadful habit .
If nobody ever forgot , there would n't be nearly so much trouble in the world .
No , indeed , there would n't be nearly so much trouble .
And Danny Meadow Mouse forgot .
He skipped and sang and was happy as could be , and never once thought to watch up in the sky .
Over in the Green Forest Hooty the Owl had had poor hunting , and he was feeling cross .
You see , Hooty was hungry , and hunger is apt to make one feel cross .
The longer he hunted , the hungrier and crosser he grew .
Suddenly he thought of Danny Meadow Mouse .
-LSB- Illustration : Hooty the Owl was hungry and cross . -RSB-
`` I suppose he is asleep somewhere safe and snug under the snow , '' grumbled Hooty , `` but he might be , he just might be out for a frolic in the moonlight .
I believe I 'll go down on the meadows and see . ''
Now Hooty the Owl can fly without making the teeniest , weeniest sound .
It seems as if he just drifts along through the air like a great shadow .
Now he spread his great wings and floated out over the meadows .
You know Hooty can see as well at night as most folks can by day , and it was not long before he saw Danny Meadow Mouse skipping about on the snow and dodging in and out of his little round doorways .
Hooty 's great eyes grew brighter and fiercer .
Without a sound he floated through the moonlight until he was just over Danny Meadow Mouse .
Too late Danny looked up .
His little song ended in a tiny squeak of fear , and he started for his nearest little round doorway .
Hooty the Owl reached down with his long cruel claws and -- Danny Meadow Mouse was caught at last !
CHAPTER X A Strange Ride and How It Ended Danny Meadow Mouse often had sat watching Skimmer the Swallow sailing around up in the blue , blue sky .
He had watched Ol' Mistah Buzzard go up , up , up , until he was nothing but a tiny speck , and Danny had wondered how it would seem to be way up above the Green Meadows and the Green Forest and look down .
It had seemed to him that it must be very wonderful and beautiful .
Sometimes he had wished that he had wings and could go up in the air and look down .
And now here he was , he , Danny Meadow Mouse , actually doing that very thing !
But Danny could see nothing wonderful or beautiful now .
No , indeed !
Everything was terrible , for you see Danny Meadow Mouse was n't flying himself .
He was being carried .
Yes , sir , Danny Meadow Mouse was being carried through the air in the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl !
And all because Danny had forgotten -- forgotten to watch up in the sky for danger .
Poor , poor Danny Meadow Mouse !
Hooty 's great cruel claws hurt him dreadfully !
But it was n't the pain that was the worst .
No , indeed !
It was n't the pain !
It was the thought of what would happen when Hooty reached his home in the Green Forest , for he knew that there Hooty would gobble him up , bones and all .
As he flew , Hooty kept chuckling , and Danny Meadow Mouse knew just what those chuckles meant .
They meant that Hooty was thinking of the good meal he was going to have .
Hanging there in Hooty 's great cruel claws , Danny looked down on the snow-covered Green Meadows he loved so well .
They seemed a frightfully long way below him , though really they were not far at all , for Hooty was flying very low .
But Danny Meadow Mouse had never in all his life been so high up before , and so it seemed to him that he was way , way up in the sky , and he shut his eyes so as not to see .
But he could n't keep them shut .
No , sir , he could n't keep them shut !
He just had to keep opening them .
There was the dear old Green Forest drawing nearer and nearer .
It always had looked very beautiful to Danny Meadow Mouse , but now it looked terrible , very terrible indeed , because over in it , hidden away there in some dark place , was the home of Hooty the Owl .
Just ahead of him was the Old Briar-patch where Peter Rabbit lives so safely .
Every old bramble in it was covered with snow and it was very , very beautiful .
Really everything was just as beautiful as ever -- the moonlight , the Green Forest , the snow-covered Green Meadows , the Old Briar-patch .
The only change was in Danny Meadow Mouse himself , and it was all because he had forgotten .
Suddenly Danny began to wriggle and struggle .
`` Keep still ! ''
snapped Hooty the Owl .
But Danny only struggled harder than ever .
It seemed to him that Hooty was n't holding him as tightly as at first .
He felt one of Hooty 's claws slip .
It tore his coat and hurt dreadfully , but it slipped !
The fact is , Hooty had only grabbed Danny Meadow Mouse by the loose part of his coat , and up in the air he could n't get hold of Danny any better .
Danny kicked , squirmed and twisted , and twisted , squirmed , and kicked .
He felt his coat tear and of course the skin with it , but he kept right on , for now he was hanging almost free .
Hooty had started down now , so as to get a better hold .
Danny gave one more kick and then -- he felt himself falling !
Danny Meadow Mouse shut his eyes and held his breath .
Down , down , down he fell .
It seemed to him that he never would strike the snow-covered meadows !
Really he fell only a very little distance .
But it seemed a terrible distance to Danny .
He hit something that scratched him , and then plump !
he landed in the soft snow right in the very middle of the Old Briar-patch , and the last thing he remembered was hearing the scream of disappointment and rage of Hooty the Owl .
CHAPTER XI Peter Rabbit Gets a Fright Peter Rabbit sat in his favorite place in the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch , trying to decide which way he would go on his travels that night .
The night before he had had a narrow escape from old Granny Fox over in the Green Forest .
There was nothing to eat around the Smiling Pool and no one to talk to there any more , and you know that Peter must either eat or ask questions in order to be perfectly happy .
No , the Smiling Pool was too dull a place to interest Peter on such a beautiful moonlight night , and Peter had no mind to try his legs against those of old Granny Fox again in the Green Forest .
Early that morning , just after Peter had settled down for his morning nap , Tommy Tit the Chickadee had dropped into the dear Old Briar-patch just to be neighborly .
Peter was just dozing off when he heard the cheeriest little voice in the world .
It was saying : `` Dee-dee-chickadee !
I see you !
Can you see me ? ''
Peter began to smile even before he could get his eyes open and look up .
There , right over his head , was Tommy Tit hanging head down from a nodding old bramble .
In a twinkling he was down on the snow right in front of Peter , then up in the brambles again , right side up , upside down , here , there , everywhere , never still a minute , and all the time chattering away in the cheeriest little voice in the world .
`` Dee-dee-chickadee !
I 'm as happy as can be !
Find it much the better way To be happy all the day .
Dee-dee-chickadee !
Everybody 's good to me ! ''
`` Hello , Tommy ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` Where 'd you come from ? ''
`` From Farmer Brown 's new orchard up on the hill .
It 's a fine orchard , Peter Rabbit , a fine orchard .
I go there every morning for my breakfast .
If the winter lasts long enough , I 'll have all the trees cleaned up for Farmer Brown . ''
Peter looked puzzled .
`` What do you mean ? ''
he asked .
`` Just what I say , '' replied Tommy Tit , almost turning a somersault in the air .
`` There 's a million eggs of insects on those young peach trees , but I 'm clearing them all off as fast as I can .
They 're mighty fine eating , Peter Rabbit , mighty fine eating ! ''
And with that Tommy Tit had said good-by and flitted away .
Peter was thinking of that young orchard now , as he sat in the moonlight trying to make up his mind where to go .
The thought of those young peach trees made his mouth water .
It was a long way up to the orchard on the hill , a very long way , and Peter was wondering if it really was safe to go .
He had just about made up his mind to try it , for Peter is very , very fond of the bark of young peach trees , when thump !
something dropped out of the sky at his very feet .
It startled Peter so that he nearly tumbled over backward .
And right at the same instant came the fierce , angry scream of Hooty the Owl .
That almost made Peter 's heart stop beating , although he knew that Hooty could n't get him down there in the Old Briar-patch .
When Peter got his wits together and his heart did n't go so jumpy , he looked to see what had dropped so close to him out of the sky .
His big eyes grew bigger than ever , and he rubbed them to make quite sure that he really saw what he thought he saw .
Yes , there was no doubt about it -- there at his feet lay Danny Meadow Mouse !
-LSB- Illustration : Peter Rabbit was surprised to see Danny . -RSB-
CHAPTER XII The Old Briar-patch Has a New Tenant Danny Meadow Mouse slowly opened his eyes and then closed them again quickly , as if afraid to look around .
He could hear someone talking .
It was a pleasant voice , not at all like the terrible voice of Hooty the Owl , which was the very last thing that Danny Meadow Mouse could remember .
Danny lay still a minute and listened .
`` Why , Danny Meadow Mouse , where in the world did you drop from ? ''
asked the voice .
It sounded like -- why , very much like Peter Rabbit speaking .
Danny opened his eyes again .
It was Peter Rabbit .
`` Where -- where am I ? ''
asked Danny Meadow Mouse in a very weak and small voice .
`` In the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch with me , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
`` But how did you get here ?
You seemed to drop right out of the sky . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse shuddered .
Suddenly he remembered everything : how Hooty the Owl had caught him in great cruel claws and had carried him through the moonlight across the snow-covered Green Meadows ; how he had felt Hooty 's claws slip and then had struggled and kicked and twisted and turned until his coat had torn and he had dropped down , down , down until he had landed in the soft snow and knocked all the breath out of his little body .
The very last thing he could remember was Hooty 's fierce scream of rage and disappointment .
Danny shuddered again .
Then a new thought came to him .
He must get out of sight !
Hooty might catch him again !
Danny tried to scramble to his feet .
`` Ouch !
Oh ! ''
groaned Danny and lay still again .
`` There , there .
Keep still , Danny Meadow Mouse .
There 's nothing to be afraid of here , '' said Peter Rabbit gently .
His big eyes filled with tears as he looked at Danny Meadow Mouse , for Danny was all torn and hurt by the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl , and you know Peter has a very tender heart .
So Danny lay still , and while Peter Rabbit tried to make him comfortable and dress his hurts , he told Peter all about how he had forgotten to watch up in the sky and so had been caught by Hooty the Owl , and all about his terrible ride in Hooty 's cruel claws .
`` Oh , dear , whatever shall I do now ? ''
he ended .
`` However shall I get back home to my warm house of grass , my safe little tunnels under the snow , and my little store of seeds in the snug hollow in the old fence-post ? ''
Peter Rabbit looked thoughtful .
`` You ca n't do it , '' said he .
`` You simply ca n't do it .
It is such a long way for a little fellow like you that it would n't be safe to try .
If you went at night , Hooty the Owl might catch you again .
If you tried in daylight , old Roughleg the Hawk would be almost sure to see you .
And night or day old Granny Fox or Reddy Fox might come snooping around , and if they did , they would be sure to catch you .
I tell you what , you stay right here !
The dear Old Briar-patch is the safest place in the world .
Why , just think , here you can come out in broad daylight and laugh at Granny and Reddy Fox and at old Roughleg the Hawk , because the good old brambles will keep them out , if they try to get you .
You can make just as good tunnels under the snow here as you had there , and there are lots and lots of seeds on the ground to eat .
You know I do n't care for them myself .
I 'm lonesome sometimes , living here all alone .
You stay here , and we 'll have the Old Briar-patch to ourselves . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse looked at Peter gratefully .
`` I will , and thank you ever so much , Peter Rabbit , '' he said .
And this is how the dear Old Briar-patch happened to have another tenant .
CHAPTER XIII Peter Rabbit Visits the Peach Orchard `` Do n't go , Peter Rabbit !
Do n't go ! ''
begged Danny Meadow Mouse .
Peter hopped to the edge of the Old Briar-patch and looked over the moonlit , snow-covered meadows to the hill back of Farmer Brown 's house .
On that hill was the young peach orchard of which Tommy Tit the Chickadee had told him , and ever since Peter 's mouth had watered and watered every time he thought of those young peach trees and the tender bark on them .
`` I think I will , Danny , just this once , '' said Peter .
`` It 's a long way , and I 've never been there before ; but I guess it 's just as safe as the Meadows or the Green Forest .
`` Oh I 'm as bold as bold can be !
Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o !
I 'll hie me forth the world to see !
Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o !
My ears are long , My legs are strong , So now good day ; I 'll hie away !
Sing hoppy-hippy-hippy-hop-o ! ''
And with that , Peter Rabbit left the dear safe Old Briar-patch , and away he went lipperty-lipperty-lip , across the Green Meadows towards the hill and the young orchard back of Farmer Brown 's house .
Danny Meadow Mouse watched him go and shook his head in disapproval .
`` Foolish , foolish , foolish ! ''
he said over and over to himself .
`` Why ca n't Peter be content with the good things that he has ? ''
Peter Rabbit hurried along through the moonlight , stopping every few minutes to sit up to look and listen .
He heard the fierce hunting call of Hooty the Owl way over in the Green Forest , so he felt sure that at present there was nothing to fear from him .
He knew that since their return to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , Granny and Reddy Fox had kept away from Farmer Brown 's , so he did not worry about them .
All in good time Peter came to the young orchard .
It was just as Tommy Tit the Chickadee had told him .
Peter hopped up to the nearest peach tree and nibbled the bark .
