Over in a little path in the meadow grass was walking old Mr. Meadow Mouse .
He was strolling along as if there was nothing in the world to fear .
Way back behind him in the same little path , walking very fast but very quietly , was big Mr. Bob Cat .
His eyes were yellow , and a hungry look was in them .
He did n't see Mr. Meadow Mouse , but he would in a few minutes .
Mr. Chipmunk saw that he would , and that there was no place for Mr. Meadow Mouse to hide . ''
` Humph !
I never meddle in other people 's affairs , and this is none of my business , ' said little Mr. Chipmunk .
`` But old Mr. Meadow Mouse was a friend .
He thought a great deal of Mr. Meadow Mouse , did little Mr. Chipmunk .
He could n't bear to think of what would happen to Mr. Meadow Mouse if big Mr. Bob Cat should catch him .
Then , almost without realizing what he was doing , little Mr. Chipmunk began to shout at big Mr. Bob Cat and to call him names .
Of course big Mr. Bob Cat looked up right away and saw little Mr. Chipmunk sitting on the old stump .
His eyes grew yellower and yellower , he drew his lips back from his long , sharp teeth in a very angry way , and his little bob tail twitched and twitched .
Then , with great leaps , he came straight for the old stump on which little Mr. Chipmunk was sitting .
`` Little Mr. Chipmunk did n't wait for him to get there .
Oh , my , no !
He took one good look at those fierce , hungry , yellow eyes and long , cruel teeth , and then he whisked into a hole in the old stump .
You see , there was n't time to go anywhere else .
Big Mr. Bob Cat found the hole in the stump right away .
He snarled when he saw it .
You see it was too small , very much too small , for him to get into himself .
But he could get one hand and arm in , and he did , feeling all around inside for little Mr. Chipmunk .
Little Mr. Chipmunk was frightened almost to death .
Yes , Sir , he was frightened almost to death .
He made himself just as flat as he could on the bottom of the hollow and held his breath . ''
` You 'd better come out of there , Mr. Chipmunk , or I 'll pull you out ! '
snarled Mr. Bob Cat .
`` Little Mr. Chipmunk just snuggled down flatter than ever and did n't say a word .
Mr. Bob Cat felt round and round inside the hollow stump and raked his long claws on the sides until little Mr. Chipmunk 's hair fairly stood up .
Yes , Sir , it stood right up on end , he was so scared .
When it did that , it tickled the claws of Mr. Bob Cat .
Mr. Bob Cat grinned .
It was an ugly grin to see .
Then he reached in a little farther and made a grab for little Mr. Chipmunk .
His wide-spread , sharp claws caught in little Mr. Chipmunk 's coat near the neck and tore little strips the whole length of it .
`` Of course little Mr. Chipmunk squealed with pain , for those claws hurt dreadfully , but he was glad that his coat tore .
If it had n't , Mr. Bob Cat would surely have pulled him out .
After a long time , Mr. Bob Cat gave up and went off , growling and snarling .
When he thought it was safe , little Mr. Chipmunk crawled out of the old stump and hurried home .
He ached and smarted terribly , and his little plain brown coat was torn in long strips . ''
` This is what I get for meddling in the affairs of other folks ! '
said little Mr. Chipmunk bitterly .
` If I 'd just minded my own business , it would n't have happened . '
`` Just then he happened to look over to the house of Mr. Meadow Mouse .
There was Mr. Meadow Mouse playing with his children .
He did n't know a thing about what his neighbor , little Mr. Chipmunk , had done for him , for you remember he had n't seen Mr. Bob Cat at all .
Little Mr. Chipmunk grinned as well as he could for the pain . ''
` I 'm glad I did it , ' he muttered .
` Yes , Sir , I 'm glad I did it , and I 'm glad that Neighbor Meadow Mouse does n't know about it .
I 'm glad that nobody knows about it . '
A kindly deed 's most kindly done In secret wrought , and seen of none .
And so I 'm glad that no one knows . '
`` Now just imagine how surprised little Mr. Chipmunk was , when in the fall it came time to put on a new coat , to have Old Mother Nature hand him out a beautiful striped coat instead of the little plain brown coat he had expected .
Old Mother Nature 's eyes twinkled as she said : '' ` There 's a stripe for every tear made in your old coat by the claws of Mr. Bob Cat the day you saved Mr. Meadow Mouse .
They are honor stripes , and hereafter you and your children and your children 's children shall always wear stripes . '
`` And that is how it happens that Striped Chipmunk comes by his striped coat , and why he is so proud of it , and takes such good care of it , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
II WHY PETER RABBIT CAN NOT FOLD HIS HANDS Happy Jack Squirrel sat with his hands folded across his white waistcoat .
He is very fond of sitting with his hands folded that way .
A little way from him sat Peter Rabbit .
Peter was sitting up very straight , but his hands dropped right down in front .
Happy Jack noticed it .
`` Why do n't you fold your hands the way I do , Peter Rabbit ? ''
shouted Happy Jack .
`` I -- I -- do n't want to , '' stammered Peter .
`` You mean you ca n't ! ''
jeered Happy Jack .
Peter pretended not to hear , and a few minutes later he hopped away towards the dear Old Briar-patch , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
Happy Jack watched him go , and there was a puzzled look in Happy Jack 's eyes .
`` I really believe he ca n't fold his hands , '' said Happy Jack to himself , but speaking aloud .
`` He ca n't , and none of his family can , '' said a gruff voice .
Happy Jack turned to find Old Mr. Toad sitting in the Lone Little Path .
`` Why not ? ''
asked Happy Jack .
`` Ask Grandfather Frog ; he knows , '' replied Old Mr. Toad , and started on about his business .
And this is how it happens that Grandfather Frog told this story to the little meadow and forest people gathered around him on the bank of the Smiling Pool .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` Old Mr. Rabbit , the grandfather a thousand times removed of Peter Rabbit , was always getting into trouble .
Yes , Sir , old Mr. Rabbit was always getting into trouble .
Seemed like he would n't be happy if he could n't get into trouble .
It was all because he was so dreadfully curious about other people 's business , just as Peter Rabbit is now .
It seemed that he was just born to be curious and so , of course , to get into trouble .
`` One day word came to the Green Forest and to the Green Meadows that Old Mother Nature was coming to see how all the little meadow and forest people were getting along , to settle all the little troubles and fusses between them , and to find out who were and who were not obeying the orders she had given them when she had visited them last .
My , my , my , such a hurrying and scurrying and worrying as there was !
You see , everybody wanted to look his best when Old Mother Nature arrived , Yes , Sir , everybody wanted to look his best .
`` There was the greatest changing of clothes you ever did see .
Old King Bear put on his blackest coat .
Mr. Coon and Mr. Mink and Mr. Otter sat up half the night brushing their suits and making them look as fine and handsome as they could .
Even Old Mr. Toad put on a new suit under his old one , and planned to pull the old one off and throw it away as soon as Old Mother Nature should arrive .
Then everybody began to fix up their homes and make them as neat and nice as they knew how -- everybody but Mr. Rabbit .
`` Now Mr. Rabbit was lazy .
He did n't like to work any more than Peter Rabbit does now .
No , Sir , old Mr. Rabbit was afraid of work .
The very sight of work scared old Mr. Rabbit .
You see , he was so busy minding other people 's business that he did n't have time to attend to his own .
So his brown and gray coat always was rumpled and tumbled and dirty .
His house was a tumble-down affair in which no one but Mr. Rabbit would ever have thought of living , and his garden -- oh , dear me , such a garden you never did see !
It was all weeds and brambles .
They filled up the yard , and old Mr. Rabbit actually could n't have gotten into his own house if he had n't cut a path through the brambles .
`` Now when old Mr. Rabbit heard that Old Mother Nature was coming , his heart sank way , way down , for he knew just how angry she would be when she saw his house , his garden and his shabby suit . ''
` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
What shall I do ? '
wailed Mr. Rabbit , wringing his hands . ''
` Get busy and clean up , ' advised Mr. Woodchuck , hurrying about his own work .
`` Now Mr. Woodchuck was a worker and very , very neat .
He meant to have his home looking just as fine as he could make it .
He brought up some clean yellow sand from deep down in the ground and sprinkled it smoothly over his doorstep . ''
` I 'll help you , if I get through my own work in time , ' shouted Mr. Woodchuck over his shoulder .
`` That gave Mr. Rabbit an idea .
He would ask all his neighbors to help him , and perhaps then he could get his house and garden in order by the time Old Mother Nature arrived .
So Mr. Rabbit called on Mr. Skunk and Mr. Coon and Mr. Mink and Mr. Squirrel and Mr. Chipmunk , and all the rest of his neighbors , telling them of his trouble and asking them to help .
Now , in spite of the trouble Mr. Rabbit was forever making for other people by his dreadful curiosity and meddling with other people 's affairs , all his neighbors had a warm place in their hearts for Mr. Rabbit , and they all promised that they would help him as soon as they had their own work finished .
`` Instead of hurrying home and getting to work himself , Mr. Rabbit stopped a while after each call and sat with his arms folded , watching the one he was calling on work .
Mr. Rabbit was very fond of sitting with folded arms .
It was very comfortable .
But this was no time to be doing it , and Mr. Skunk told him so . ''
` If you want the rest of us to help you , you 'd better get things started yourself , ' said old Mr. Skunk , carefully combing out his big , plumy tail . ''
` That 's right , Mr. Skunk !
That 's right ! '
said Mr. Rabbit , starting along briskly , just as if he was going to hurry right home and begin work that very instant .
`` But half an hour later , when Mr. Skunk happened to pass the home of Mr. Chipmunk , there sat Mr. Rabbit with his arms folded , watching Mr. Chipmunk hurrying about as only Mr. Chipmunk can .
`` Finally Mr. Rabbit had made the round of all his friends and neighbors , and he once more reached his tumble-down house .
` Oh , dear , ' sighed Mr. Rabbit , as he looked at the tangle of brambles which almost hid the little old house , ' I never , never can clear away all this !
It will be a lot easier to work when all my friends are here to help , ' So he sighed once more and folded his arms , instead of beginning work as he should have done .
And then , because the sun was bright and warm , and he was very , very comfortable , old Mr. Rabbit began to nod , and presently he was fast asleep .
`` Now Old Mother Nature likes to take people by surprise , and it happened that she chose this very day to make her promised visit .
She was greatly pleased with all she saw as she went along , until she came to the home of Mr. Rabbit . ''
` Mercy me ! '
exclaimed Old Mother Nature , throwing up her hands as she saw the tumble-down house almost hidden by the brambles and weeds .
` Can it be possible that any one really lives here ? '
Then , peering through the tangle of brambles , she spied old Mr. Rabbit sitting on his broken-down doorstep with his arms folded and fast asleep .
`` At first she was very indignant , oh , very indignant , indeed !
She decided that Mr. Rabbit should be punished very severely .
But as she watched him sitting there , dreaming in the warm sunshine , her anger began to melt away .
The fact is , Old Mother Nature was like all the rest of Mr. Rabbit 's neighbors -- she just could n't help loving happy-go-lucky Mr. Rabbit in spite of all his faults .
With a long stick she reached in and tickled the end of his nose .
`` Mr. Rabbit sneezed , and this made him wake up .
He yawned and blinked , and then his eyes suddenly flew wide open with fright .
He had discovered Old Mother Nature frowning at him .
She pointed a long forefinger at him and said : ` In every single blessed day There 's time for work and time for play .
Who folds his arms with work undone Doth cheat himself and spoil his fun . ' ''
` Hereafter , Mr. Rabbit , you and your children and your children 's children will never again be able to sit with folded arms until you or they have learned to work . '
`` And that is why Peter Rabbit can not fold his arms and still lives in a tumble-down house among the brambles , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
III WHY UNC ' BILLY POSSUM PLAYS DEAD One thing puzzled Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk a great deal after they had come to know Unc ' Billy Possum and his funny ways .
They had talked it over and wondered and wondered about it , and tried to understand it , and even had asked Unc ' Billy about it .
Unc ' Billy had just grinned and said that they would have to ask his mammy .
Of course they could n't do that , and Unc ' Billy knew they could n't , for Unc ' Billy 's mammy had died long before he even thought of coming up from Ol' Virginny to the Green Forest and the Green Meadows where they lived .
He said it just to tease them , and when he said it , he chuckled until they chuckled too , just as if it really were the best kind of a joke .
Now you know it always is the thing that you try and try to find out and ca n't find out that you most want to find out .
It was just so with Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk .
The more they talked about it , the more they wanted to know .
Why was it that Unc ' Billy Possum played dead instead of trying to run away when he was surprised by his enemies ?
They always tried to run away .
So did everybody else of their acquaintance excepting Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` There must be a reason '' said Peter gravely , as he pulled thoughtfully at one of his long ears .
`` Of course there is a reason , '' asserted Johnny Chuck , chewing the end of a blade of grass .
`` There 's a reason for everything , '' added Striped Chipmunk , combing out the hair of his funny little tail .
`` Then of course Grandfather Frog knows it , '' said Peter .
`` Of course !
Why did n't we think of him before ? ''
exclaimed the others .
`` I 'll beat you to the Smiling Pool ! ''
shouted Peter .
Of course he did , for his legs are long and made for running , but Striped Chipmunk was not far behind .
Johnny Chuck took his time , for he knew that he could not keep up with the others .
Besides he was so fat that to run made him puff and blow .
Grandfather Frog sat just as usual on his big green lily-pad , and he grinned when he saw who his visitors were , for he guessed right away what they had come for .
`` Chug-a-rum !
What is it you want to know now ? ''
he demanded , before Peter could fairly get his breath .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , we want to know why it is that Unc ' Billy Possum plays dead , '' replied Peter as politely as he knew how .
Grandfather Frog chuckled .
`` Just to fool people , stupid ! ''
said he .
`` Of course we know that , '' replied Striped Chipmunk , `` but what we want to know is how he ever found out that he could fool people that way , and how he knows that he will fool them . ''
`` I suspect that his mammy taught him , '' said Grandfather Frog , with another chuckle way down deep in his throat .
`` But who taught his mammy ? ''
persisted Striped Chipmunk .
Grandfather Frog snapped at a foolish green fly , and when it was safely tucked away inside his white and yellow waistcoat , he turned once more to his three little visitors , and there was a twinkle in his big , goggly eyes .
`` I see , '' said he , `` that you will have a story , and I suppose that the sooner I tell it to you , the sooner you will leave me in peace .
Unc ' Billy Possum 's grandfather a thousand times removed was -- '' `` Was this way back in the days when the world was young ? ''
interrupted Peter .
Grandfather Frog scowled at Peter .
`` If I have any more interruptions , there will be no story to-day '' said he severely .
Peter looked ashamed and promised that he would hold his tongue right between his teeth until Grandfather Frog was through .
Grandfather Frog cleared his throat and began again .
`` Unc ' Billy Possum 's grandfather a thousand times removed was very much as Unc ' Billy is now , only he was a little more spry and knew better than to stuff himself so full that he could n't run .
He was always very sly , and he played a great many tricks on his neighbors , and sometimes he got them into trouble .
But when he did , he always managed to keep out of their way until they had forgotten all about their anger .
`` One morning the very imp of mischief seemed to get into old Mr. Possum 's head .
Yes , Sir , it certainly did seem that way .
And when you see Mischief trotting along the Lone Little Path , if you look sharp enough , you 'll see Trouble following at his heels like a shadow .
I never knew it to fail .
It 's just as sure as a stomach-ache is to follow overeating . ''
Just here Grandfather Frog paused and looked very hard at Peter Rabbit .
But Peter pretended not to notice , and after slowly winking one of his big , goggly eyes at Johnny Chuck , Grandfather Frog continued : `` Anyway , as I said before , the imp of mischief seemed to be in old Mr. Possum 's head that morning , for he began to play tricks on his neighbors as soon as they were out of bed .
He hid Old King Bear 's breakfast , while the latter had his head turned , and then pretended that he had just come along .
He was very polite and offered to help Old King Bear hunt for his lost breakfast .
Then , whenever Old King Bear came near the place where it was hidden , old Mr. Possum would hide it somewhere else .
Old King Bear was hungry , and he worked himself up into a terrible rage , for he was in a hurry for his breakfast .
Old Mr. Possum was very sympathetic and seemed to be doing his very best to find the lost meal .
At last Old King Bear turned his head suddenly and caught sight of old Mr. Possum hiding that breakfast in a new place .
My , my , but his temper did boil over !
It certainly did .
And if he could have laid hands on old Mr. Possum that minute , it surely would have been the end of him .
`` But old Mr. Possum was mighty spry , and he went off through the Green Forest laughing fit to kill himself .
Pretty soon he met Mr. Panther .
He was very polite to Mr. Panther .
He told him that he had just come from a call on Old King Bear , and hinted that Old King Bear was then enjoying a feast and that there might be enough for Mr. Panther , if he hurried up there at once .
`` Now , Mr. Panther was hungry , for he had found nothing for his breakfast that morning .
So he thanked old Mr. Possum and hurried away to find Old King Bear and share in the good things old Mr. Possum had told about .
`` Old Mr. Possum himself hurried on , chuckling as he thought of the way Mr. Panther was likely to be received , with Old King Bear in such a temper .
Pretty soon along came Mr. Lynx .
Old Mr. Possum told him the same story he had told Mr. Panther , and Mr. Lynx went bounding off in a terrible hurry , for fear that he would not be in time to share in that good breakfast .
It was such a good joke that old Mr. Possum tried it on Mr. Wolf and Mr. Fisher and Mr. Fox .
In fact , he hunted up every one he could think of and sent them to call on Old King Bear , and without really telling them so , he made each one think that he would get a share in that breakfast . ''
`` Now , there was n't any more breakfast than Old King Bear wanted himself , and by the time Mr. Panther arrived , there was n't so much as a crumb left .
Then , one after another , the others came dropping in , each licking his chops , and all very polite to Old King Bear .
At first he did n't know what to make of it , but pretty soon Mr. Fox delicately hinted that they had come in response to the invitation sent by Mr. Possum , and that as they were all very hungry , they would like to know when the feast would be ready .
Right away Old King Bear knew that old Mr. Possum had been up to some of his tricks , and he told his visitors that they were the victims of a practical joke .
-LSB- Illustration : `` As they were all very hungry , they would like to know when the feast would be ready . '' -RSB-
`` My , my , my , how angry everybody grew !
With Old King Bear at their head , they started out to hunt for old Mr. Possum .
When he saw them coming , he realized that what he had thought was a joke had become no longer a laughing matter for him .
He was too frightened to run , so he scrambled up a tree .
He quite forgot that Mr. Panther and Mr. Lynx could climb just as fast as he .
Up the tree after him they scrambled , and he crept as far out as he could get on one of the branches .
Mr. Panther did n't dare go out there , so he just shook the branch .
He shook and shook and shook and shook , and the first thing old Mr. Possum knew , he was flying through the air down to where the others were all ready to pounce on him .
`` Old Mr. Possum was frightened almost to death .
He shut his eyes , and then he landed with a thump that knocked all the wind from his body .
When he got his breath again , he still kept his eyes closed , for he could n't bear the thought of looking at the cruel teeth and claws of Old King Bear and the others .
Presently , while he was wondering why they did n't jump on him and tear him to pieces , Old King Bear spoke : '' ' I guess Mr. Possum wo n't play any more jokes , Mr. Panther , ' said he .
` You just knocked the life out of him when you shook him off that branch . '
`` Mr. Panther came over and sniffed at Mr. Possum and turned him over with one paw .
All the time Mr. Possum lay just as if he were dead , because he was too frightened to move . '
I did n't mean to kill him , ' said Mr. Panther .
` We certainly will miss him .
What will we do with him ? ' ''
` Leave him here as a warning to others , ' growled Old King Bear .
`` Each in turn came up and sniffed of Mr. Possum , and then they all went about their business .
He waited long enough to make sure that they were out of sight , and then took the shortest way home .
When he got there and thought it all over , he thought that the best joke of all was the way he had made everybody think that he was dead .
And then a bright idea struck him : he would try the same trick whenever he was caught .
So the next time he got in trouble , instead of running away , he tried playing dead .
It was such a success that he taught his children how to do it , and they taught their children , and so on down to Unc ' Billy , whom you know .
Unc ' Billy says it is a lot easier than running away , and safer , too .
Besides , it is always such a joke .
Now , do n't bother me any more , for I want to take a nap , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk , and started off to hunt up Unc ' Billy Possum .
IV WHY REDDY FOX WEARS RED Peter Rabbit sat in the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch making faces and laughing at Reddy Fox .
Of course that was n't a nice thing to do , not a bit nice .
But Peter had just had a narrow escape , a very narrow escape , for Reddy Fox had sprung out from behind a bush as Peter came down the Lone Little Path , and had so nearly caught Peter that he had actually pulled some fur out of Peter 's coat .
Now Peter was safe in the dear Old Briar-patch .
He was a little out of breath , because he had had to use his long legs as fast as he knew how , but he was safe .
You see , Reddy Fox would n't run the risk of tearing his handsome red coat on the brambles .
Besides , they scratched terribly .
`` Never mind , Peter Rabbit , I 'll get you yet ! ''
snarled Reddy , as he gave up and started back for the Green Forest .
`` Reddy Fox is very sly !
Reddy Fox is very spry !
But sly and spry , 't is vain to try To be as sly and spry as I. '' When Peter Rabbit shouted this , Reddy looked back and showed all his teeth , but Peter only laughed , and Reddy trotted on .
Peter watched him out of sight .
`` My !
I wish I had such a handsome coat , '' he said , with a long sigh , for you know Peter 's coat is very plain , very plain , indeed .
`` You would n't , if you had to wear it for the same reason that Reddy Fox has to wear his .
A good heart and honest ways are better than fine clothes , Peter Rabbit . ''
Peter looked up .
There was saucy , pert , little Jenny Wren fussing around in one of the old bramble bushes .
`` Hello , Jenny ! ''
said Peter .
`` Why does Reddy wear a red coat ? ''
`` Do you mean to say that you do n't know ? ''
Jenny Wren looked very hard at Peter with her sharp eyes .
`` I thought everybody knew that !
You certainly are slow , Peter Rabbit .
I have n't time to tell you about it now .
Go ask Grandfather Frog ; he knows all about it . ''
Jenny Wren bustled off before Peter could find his tongue .
Now , you all know how full of curiosity Peter Rabbit is .
Jenny Wren 's busy tongue had set that curiosity fairly boiling over .
He just could n't sit still for wondering and wondering why Reddy Fox wears a red coat .
He had never thought anything about it before , but now he could n't get it out of his head .
He just had to know .
So , making sure that Reddy Fox had disappeared in the Green Forest , Peter started for the Smiling Pool , lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as he could go .
There he found Grandfather Frog setting on his big green lily-pad , just as usual .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , why does Reddy Fox wear a red coat ? ''
panted Peter , quite out of breath .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
grunted Grandfather Frog crossly .
`` Do n't you know that it is very impolite to disturb people when they are having a nap ? ''
`` I -- I 'm very sorry .
Indeed I am , Grandfather Frog , '' said Peter very humbly .
`` Will you tell me if I come again some time when you are not so sleepy ? ''
Now , like everybody else , Grandfather Frog is rather fond of Peter Rabbit , and now Peter looked so truly sorry , and at the same time there was such a look of disappointment in Peter 's eyes , that Grandfather Frog forgot all about his crossness .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he .
`` You and your questions are a nuisance , Peter Rabbit , and I may as well get rid of you now as to have you keep coming down here and pestering me to death .
Besides , any one who has to keep such a sharp watch for Reddy Fox as you do ought to know why he wears a red coat .
If you 'll promise to sit perfectly still and ask no foolish questions , I 'll tell you the story . ''
Of course Peter promised , and settled himself comfortably to listen .
And this is the story that Grandfather Frog told : `` A long time ago , when the world was young , old Mr. Fox , the grandfather a thousand times removed of Reddy Fox , was one of the smartest of all the forest and meadow people , just as Reddy is now .
He was so smart that he knew enough not to appear smart , and the fact is his neighbors thought him rather dull .
He wore just a common , everyday suit of dull brown , like most of the others , and there was n't anything about him to attract attention .
He was always very polite , very polite indeed , to every one .
Yes , Sir , Mr. Fox was very polite .
He always seemed to be minding his own business , and he never went around asking foolish questions or poking his nose into other people 's affairs . ''
Grandfather Frog stopped a minute and looked very hard at Peter after he said this , and Peter looked uncomfortable .
`` Now , although Mr. Fox did n't appear to take any interest in other people 's affairs and never asked questions , he had two of the sharpest ears among all the little meadow and forest people , and while he was going about seeming to be just minding his own business , he was listening and listening to all that was said .
Everything he heard he remembered , so that it was n't long before he knew more about what was going on than all his neighbors together .
But he kept his mouth tight closed , did Mr. Fox , and was very humble and polite to everybody .
Every night he came home early and went to bed by sundown , and everybody said what good habits Mr. Fox had .
`` But when everybody else was asleep , Mr. Fox used to steal out and be gone half the night .
Yes , Sir , sometimes he 'd be gone until almost morning .
But he always took care to get home before any of his neighbors were awake , and then he 'd wait until everybody was up before he showed himself .
When he came out and started to hunt for his breakfast , some one was sure to tell him of mischief done during the darkness of the night .
Sometimes it was a storehouse broken into , and the best things taken .
Sometimes it was of terrible frights that some of the littlest people had received by being wakened in the night and seeing a fierce face with long , sharp teeth grinning at them .
Sometimes it was of worse things that were told in whispers .
Mr. Fox used to listen as if very much shocked , and say that something ought to be done about it , and wonder who it could be who would do such dreadful things .
`` By and by things got so bad that they reached the ears of Old Mother Nature , and she came to find out what it all meant .
Now , the very night before she arrived , Mrs. Quack , who lived on the river bank , had a terrible fright .
Somebody sprang upon her as she was sleeping , and in the struggle she lost all her tail feathers .
She hurried to tell Old Mother Nature all about it , and big tears rolled down her cheeks as she told how she had lost all her beautiful tail feathers .
Mother Nature called all the people of the forest and the meadows together .
She made them all pass before her , and she looked sharply at each one as they went by .
Mr. Fox looked meeker than ever , and he was very humble and polite .
`` Now when Mr. Fox had paid his respects and turned his back , Old Mother Nature saw something red on the tail of his coat .
It was nothing but a little smear of red clay , but that was enough for Old Mother Nature .
You see , she knew that Mrs. Quack 's home was right at the foot of a red claybank .
She did n't say a word until everybody had paid their respects and passed before her .
Then she told them how grieved she was to hear of all the trouble there had been , but that she could n't watch over each one all the time ; they must learn to watch out for themselves .
`` And so that you may know who to watch out for , from now on never trust the one who wears a bright red coat , '' concluded Old Mother Nature .
`` All of a sudden Mr. Fox became aware that everybody was looking at him , and in every face was hate .
He glanced at his coat .
It was bright red !
Then Mr. Fox knew that he had been found out , and he sneaked away with his tail between his legs .
The first chance he got , he went to Old Mother Nature and begged her to give him back his old coat .
She promised that she would when his heart changed , and he changed his ways .
But his heart never did change , and his children and his children 's children were just like him .
They have always been the smartest and the sliest and the most feared and disliked of all the little people on the meadows or in the forest .
And now you know why Reddy Fox wears a red coat , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit drew a long breath .
`` Thank you , thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
said he .
`` I -- I think hereafter I 'll be quite content with my own suit , even if it is n't handsome .
Jenny Wren was right .
A good heart and honest ways are better than fine clothes . ''
V WHY JIMMY SKUNK NEVER HURRIES The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind had just been released from the big bag in which she carries them every night to their home behind the Purple Hills and every morning brings them back to the Green Meadows to romp and play all day .
They romped and raced and danced away , some one way , some another , to see whom they could find to play with .
Presently some of them spied Jimmy Skunk slowly ambling down the Crooked Little Path , stopping every few steps to pull over a loose stone or stick .
They knew what he was doing that for .
They knew that he was looking for fat beetles for his breakfast .
They danced over to him and formed a ring around him while they sang : `` Who is it never , never hurries ?
Who is it never , never worries ?
Who is it does just what he pleases , Just like us Merry Little Breezes ?
Jimmy Skunk !
Jimmy Skunk ! ''
Now not so far away but that he could hear them very plainly sat Peter Rabbit , just finishing his breakfast in a sweet-clover patch .
He sat up very straight , so as to hear better .
Of course some of the Merry Little Breezes saw him right away .
They left Jimmy to come over and dance in a circle around Peter , for Peter is a great favorite with them .
And as they danced they sang : `` Who is it hops and skips and jumps ?
Who is it sometimes loudly thumps ?
Who is it dearly loves to play , But when there 's danger runs away ?
Peter Rabbit !
Peter Rabbit ! ''
Peter grinned good-naturedly .
He is quite used to being laughed at for always running away , and he does n't mind it in the least .
`` When danger 's near , who runs away will live to run another day , '' retorted Peter promptly .
Then he began the maddest kind of a frolic with the Merry Little Breezes until they and he were quite tired out and ready for a good rest .
`` I wish , '' said Peter , as he stretched himself out in the middle of the patch of sweet clover , `` that you would tell me why it is that Jimmy Skunk never hurries . ''
`` And we wish that you would tell us the same thing , '' cried one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` But I ca n't , '' protested Peter .
`` Everybody else seems to hurry , at times anyway , but Jimmy never does .
He says it is a waste of energy , whatever that means . ''
`` I tell you what -- let 's go over to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog about it now .
He 'll be sure to know , '' spoke up one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` All right , '' replied Peter , hopping to his feet .
`` But you 'll have to ask him .
I 've asked him for so many stories that I do n't dare ask for another right away , for fear that he will say that I am a nuisance . ''
So it was agreed that the Merry Little Breezes should ask Grandfather Frog why it is that Jimmy Skunk never hurries , and that Peter should keep out of sight until Grandfather Frog had begun the story , for they were sure that there would be a story .
Away they all hurried to the Smiling Pool .
The Merry Little Breezes raced so hard that they were quite out of breath when they burst through the bulrushes and surrounded Grandfather Frog , as he sat on his big green lily-pad .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , why is it that Jimmy Skunk never hurries ? ''
they panted .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
replied Grandfather Frog in his deepest , gruffest voice .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Probably because he has learned better . ''
`` Oh ! ''
said one of the Merry Little Breezes , in a rather faint , disappointed sort of voice .
Just then he spied a fat , foolish , green fly and blew it right over to Grandfather Frog , who snapped it up in a flash .
Right away all the Merry Little Breezes began to hunt for foolish green flies and blow them over to Grandfather Frog , until he did n't have room for another one inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
Indeed the legs of the last one he tried to swallow stuck out of one corner of his big mouth .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , trying very hard to get those legs out of sight .
`` Chug-a-rum !
I always like to do something for those who do something for me , and I suppose now that I ought to tell you why it is that Jimmy Skunk never hurries .
I would , if Peter Rabbit were here .
If I tell you the story , Peter will be sure to hear of it , and then he will give me no peace until I tell it to him , and I do n't like to tell stories twice . ''
`` But he is here ! ''
cried one of the Little Breezes .
`` He 's right over behind that little clump of tall grass . ''
`` Humph !
I thought he was n't very far away , '' grunted Grandfather Frog , with a twinkle in his great , goggly eyes .
Peter crept out of his hiding-place , looking rather shamefaced and very foolish .
Then the Merry Little Breezes settled themselves on the lily-pads in a big circle around Grandfather Frog , and Peter sat down as close to the edge of the bank of the Smiling Pool as he dared to get .
After what seemed to them a very long time , Grandfather Frog swallowed the legs of the last foolish green fly , opened his big mouth , and began : `` Of course you all know that long , long ago , when the world was young , things were very different from what they are now , very different indeed .
The great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Jimmy Skunk was slimmer and trimmer than Jimmy is .
He was more like his cousins , Mr. Weasel and Mr. Mink .
He was just as quick moving as they were .
Yes , Sir , Mr. Skunk was very lively on his feet .
He had to be to keep out of the way of his big neighbors , for in those days he did n't have any means of protecting himself , as Jimmy has now .
He was dressed all in black .
You know it was n't until Old Mother Nature found out that he was taking advantage of that black suit to get into mischief on dark nights that she gave him white stripes , so that the darker the night , the harder it would be for him to keep from being seen .
`` Now Mr. Skunk was very smart and shrewd , oh , very !
When the hard times came , which made so many changes in the lives of the people who lived in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , Mr. Skunk was very quick to see that unless he could think of some way to protect himself , it was only a matter of time when he would furnish a dinner for one of his fierce big neighbors , and of course Mr. Skunk had no desire to do that .
It was then that he asked Old Mother Nature to give him a bag of perfume so strong that it would make everybody ill but himself .
Mother Nature thought it all over , and then she did , but she made him promise that he would never use it unless he was in great danger .
`` Mr. Skunk had to try his new defence only once or twice before his enemies took the greatest care to let him alone .
He found that he no longer had to run for a safe hiding-place when he met Mr. Wolf or Mr. Lynx or Mr. Panther .
They just snarled at him and passed without offering to touch him .
So Mr. Skunk grew very independent and went where he pleased when he pleased .
And , because he no longer had to run from his enemies , he got out of the habit of running .
Then he made a discovery .
He watched those of his neighbors who were forever hurrying about looking for food , hurrying because all the time there was great fear upon them that an enemy might be near , hurrying because each was fearful that his neighbor would get more than he .
It was n't long before Mr. Skunk saw that in their hurry they overlooked a great deal .
In fact , by just following after them slowly , he found all he wanted to eat .
`` So Mr. Skunk began to grow fat .
His neighbors , who were having hard work to make a living , grew envious , and said unkind things about him , and hinted that he must be stealing , or he never could have so much to eat .
But Mr. Skunk did n't mind .
He went right on about his business .
He never worried , because , you know , he feared nobody .
And he never hurried , because he found that it paid best to go slowly .
In that way he never missed any of the good things that his hurrying , worrying neighbors did .
So he grew fatter and fatter , while others grew thinner .
After a while he almost forgot how to run .
Being fat and never hurrying or worrying made him good-natured .
He kept right on minding his own affairs and never meddling in the affairs of others , so that by and by his neighbors began to respect him .
`` Of course he taught his children to do as he did , and they taught their children .
And so , ever since that long-ago day , when the world was young , that little bag of perfume has been handed down in the Skunk family , and none of them has ever been afraid .
Now you know why Jimmy Skunk , whom you all know , is so independent and never hurries . ''
`` Thank you !
Thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes .
`` When you want some more foolish green flies , just let us know , and we 'll get them for you . ''
`` Chug-a-rum !
What are you looking so wistful for , Peter Rabbit ? ''
demanded Grandfather Frog .
`` I -- I was just wishing that I had a -- '' began Peter .
Then suddenly he made a face .
`` No , I do n't either ! ''
he declared .
`` I guess I 'd better be getting home to the dear Old Briar-patch now .
Mrs. Peter probably thinks something has happened to me . ''
And away he went , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
VI WHY SAMMY JAY HAS A FINE COAT Sammy Jay has a very fine coat , a very beautiful coat .
Everybody knows that .
In fact , Sammy 's coat has long been the envy of a great many of his neighbors in the Green Forest .
Some of them , you know , have very modest coats .
They are not beautiful at all .
And yet the owners of some of these plain coats are among the most honest and hard-working of all the little people who live in the Green Forest .
They find it hard , very hard indeed , to understand why such a scamp and mischiefmaker as Sammy Jay should be given such a wonderful blue coat with white trimmings .
Peter Rabbit often had thought about it .
He has a number of feathered friends whom he likes ever so much better than he does Sammy Jay .
In fact , he and Sammy are forever falling out , because Sammy delights to tease Peter .
He sometimes makes up for it by warning Peter when Granny or Reddy Fox happens to be about , and Peter is honest enough to recognize this and put it to Sammy 's credit .
But in spite of this , it never seemed to him quite right that Sammy Jay should be so handsomely dressed .
`` Of course , '' said Peter to Grandfather Frog , `` Old Mother Nature knows a great deal more than I do -- '' `` Really !
You do n't mean to say so !
Chug-a-rum !
You do n't mean to say so , Peter ! ''
interrupted Grandfather Frog , pretending to be very much surprised at what Peter said .
-LSB- Illustration : `` You do n't mean to say so , Peter , '' interrupted Grandfather Frog . -RSB-
Peter grinned and wrinkled his nose at Grandfather Frog .
`` Yes , '' said he , `` Old Mother Nature knows a great deal more than I do , but it seems to me as if she had made a mistake in giving Sammy Jay such a handsome coat .
There must be a reason , I suppose , but for the life of me I can not understand it .
I should think that she would give such a thief as Sammy Jay the very homeliest suit she could find .
You may depend I would , if I were in her place . ''
Grandfather Frog chuckled until he shook all over .
`` It 's lucky for some of us that you are not in her place ! ''
said he .
`` Chug-a-rum !
It certainly is lucky ! ''
`` If I were , I would give you a handsome coat , too , Grandfather Frog , '' replied Peter .
Grandfather Frog suddenly swelled out with indignation .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Chug-a-rum !
What 's the matter with the coat I have got , Peter Rabbit ?
Tell me that !
Who 's got a handsomer one ? ''
Grandfather Frog glared with his great , goggly eyes at Peter .
`` I did n't mean to say that you have n't got a handsome coat .
Your coat is handsome , very handsome indeed , Grandfather Frog , '' Peter hastened to say .
`` I always did like green .
I just love it !
And I should think you would be ever so proud of your white and yellow waistcoat .
I would if it were mine .
What I meant to say is , that if I were in Old Mother Nature 's place , I would give some plain folks handsome suits .
Certainly , I would n't give such a rascal as Sammy Jay one of the handsomest coats in all the Green Forest .
Knowing Sammy as well as I do , it is hard work to believe that he came by it honestly . ''
Grandfather Frog chuckled way down deep in his throat .
`` Sammy came by it honestly enough , Peter .
Yes , Sir , he came by it honestly enough , because it was handed down to him by his father , who got it from his father , who got it from his father , and so on , way back to the days when the world was young , but -- '' Grandfather Frog paused , and that dreamy , far-away look which Peter had seen so often came into his great , goggly eyes .
`` But what , Grandfather Frog ? ''
asked Peter eagerly , when he could keep still no longer .
Grandfather Frog settled himself comfortably on his big green lily-pad and looked very hard at Peter .
`` I 'm going to tell you a story , Peter Rabbit , '' said he , `` so that never again will you be led to doubt that Old Mother Nature knows exactly what she is about .
In the first place , Sammy Jay is not wholly to blame for all his bad habits .
Some of them were handed down to him with his fine coat , just the same as your troublesome curiosity was handed down to you with the white patch on the seat of your trousers . ''
Peter nodded .
He had felt a great many times that he just could n't help this habit of poking that wobbly little nose of his in where it had no business to be , any more than he could change that funny little bunch of white cotton , which he called a tail , for a really , truly tail .
`` Of course , you have heard all about what a very fine gentleman Sammy Jay 's great-great-ever-so-great grandfather was thought to be until it was discovered that he was all the time stealing from his neighbors and putting the blame on others , and how Old Mother Nature punished him by taking away the beautiful voice of which he was so proud , and giving him instead the harsh voice which Sammy has now , and making him tell just what he is by screaming ` thief , thief , thief ! '
every time he opens his mouth to speak .
`` At first Old Mother Nature had intended to take away the fine coat of which Mr. Jay was so proud , but when he discovered that he had lost his fine voice , he was so ashamed that he hurried away to hide himself from the eyes of his neighbors , so that Old Mother Nature did n't have time to change his coat just then .
` I 'll wait a bit , ' said she to herself , ` and see how he behaves .
Perhaps he is truly sorry for what he has done , and I will not have to punish him more . '
`` But if Mr. Jay was truly sorry , he gave no signs of it .
You see , he had cheated his neighbors , and had stolen from them for so long , that he found this the easiest way to get a living .
His bad habits had become fixed , as bad habits have a way of doing .
Besides , right down in his heart , he was n't sorry for what he had done , only angry at having been found out .
Now that he had been found out , of course every one was on the watch for him , and it was n't so easy to steal as it had been before .
So now , instead of going about openly , with his head held high , he grew very crafty , and sneaked quietly about through the Green Forest , trying to keep out of sight , that he might the easier steal from his neighbors and make trouble for them .
`` When Old Mother Nature saw this , she changed her mind about taking away his handsome suit .
` If I do that , ' thought she , ` it will make it all the easier for him to keep out of sight , and all the harder for his neighbors to know when he is about . '
`` So instead of giving him the plain , homely suit that she had thought of giving him , she made his coat of blue brighter than before and trimmed it with the whitest of white trimmings , so that Mr. Jay had one of the very handsomest coats in all the Green Forest .
At first he was very proud of it , but it was n't long before he found that it was very hard work to keep out of sight when he wanted to .
That bright blue coat was forever giving him away when he was out on mischief .
Everybody was all the time on the watch for it , and so where in the past Mr. Jay had been able , without any trouble , to steal all he wanted to eat , now he sometimes actually had to work for his food , and get it honestly or else go hungry .
`` You would suppose that he would have mended him ways , would n't you ? ''
Peter nodded .
`` But he did n't .
He grew more sly and crafty than ever .
But in spite of this , he did n't begin to make as much trouble as before .
He could n't , you know , because of his bright coat .
When Old Mother Nature found that Mr. Jay had passed along his bad habits to his children , she passed along his handsome blue coat , too , and so it has been from that long-ago day right down to this .
Sammy Jay 's fine coat is n't a reward for goodness , as is Winsome Bluebird 's , but is to help the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows to protect themselves , and keep track of Sammy when he is sneaking and snooping around looking for mischief .
Now what do you think , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter scratched one long ear and then the other long ear thoughtfully , and he looked a wee bit ashamed as he replied : `` I guess Old Mother Nature makes no mistakes and always knows just what she is doing . ''
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog in his deepest voice .
`` You may be sure she does .
And another thing , Peter Rabbit : Never judge any one by his clothes .
It is a great mistake , a very great mistake .
Plain clothes sometimes cover the kindest hearts , and fine clothes often are a warning to beware of mischief . ''
`` I -- I do n't know but you are right , '' admitted Peter .
`` I know I am , '' said Grandfather Frog .
VII WHY JERRY MUSKRAT BUILDS HIS HOUSE IN THE WATER Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck had gone down to the Smiling Pool for a call on their old friend , Jerry Muskrat .
But Jerry was nowhere to be seen .
They waited and waited , but no Jerry Muskrat .
`` Probably he is taking a nap in that big house of his , '' said Johnny Chuck , `` and if he is we 'll have to sit here until he wakes up , or else go back home and visit him some other time . ''
`` That 's so , '' replied Peter .
`` I do n't see what he has his house in the water for , anyway .
If he had built it on land , like sensible people , we might be able to waken him .
Funny place to build a house , is n't it ? ''
Johnny Chuck scratched his head thoughtfully .
`` It does seem a funny place , '' he admitted .
`` It certainly does seem a funny place .
But then , Jerry Muskrat is a funny fellow .
You know how much of the time he stays in the water .
That seems funny to me .
I suppose there is a reason for it , and probably there is a reason for building his house where it is .
I 've found that there is a reason for most things .
Probably Jerry 's great-great-grandfather built his house that way , and so Jerry does the same thing . ''
Peter Rabbit suddenly brightened up .
`` I do believe you are right , Johnny Chuck , and if you are , there must be a story about it , and if there is a story , Grandfather Frog will be sure to know it .
There he is , over on his big green lily-pad , and he looks as if he might be feeling very good-natured this morning .
Let 's go ask him why Jerry Muskrat builds his house in the water . ''
Grandfather Frog saw them coming , and he guessed right away that they were coming for a story .
He grinned to himself and pretended to go to sleep .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog , '' said Johnny Chuck .
Grandfather Frog did n't answer .
Johnny tried again , and still no reply .
`` He 's asleep , '' said Johnny , looking dreadfully disappointed , `` and I guess we 'd better not disturb him , for he might wake up cross , and of course we would n't get a story if he did . ''
Peter looked at Grandfather Frog sharply .
He was n't so sure that that was a real nap .
It seemed to him that there was just the least little hint of a smile in the corners of Grandfather Frog 's big mouth .
`` You sit here a minute , '' he whispered in Johnny Chuck 's ear .
So Johnny Chuck sat down where he was , which was right where Grandfather Frog could see him by lifting one eyelid just the teeniest bit , and Peter hopped along the bank until he was right behind Grandfather Frog .
Now just at that place on the bank was growing a toadstool .
Peter looked over at Johnny Chuck and winked .
Then he turned around , and with one of his long hind-feet , he kicked the toadstool with all his might .
Now toadstools , as you all know , are not very well fastened at the roots , and this one was no different from the rest .
When Peter kicked it it flew out into the air and landed with a great splash in the Smiling Pool , close beside the big green lily-pad on which Grandfather Frog was sitting .
Of course he did n't see it coming , and of course it gave him a great start .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
exclaimed Grandfather Frog and dived head first into the water .
A minute later Peter 's sharp eyes saw him peeping out from under a lily-pad to see what had frightened him so .
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
shouted Peter , dancing about on the bank .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Grandfather Frog , afraid of a toadstool !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
At first Grandfather Frog was angry , very angry indeed .
But he is too old and too wise to lose his temper for long over a joke , especially when he has been fairly caught trying to play a joke himself .
So presently he climbed back on to his big green lily-pad , blinking his great , goggly eyes and looking just a wee bit foolish .
`` Chug-a-rum !
I might have known that that was some of your work , Peter Rabbit , '' said he , `` but I thought it surely was a stone thrown by Farmer Brown 's boy .
What do you mean by frightening an old fellow like me this way ? ''
`` Just trying to get even with you for trying to fool us into thinking that you were asleep when you were wide awake , '' replied Peter .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , do tell us why it is that Jerry Muskrat builds his house in the water .
Please do ! ''
`` I have a mind not to , just to get even with you , '' said Grandfather Frog , settling himself comfortably , `` but I believe I will , to show you that there are some folks who can take a joke without losing their temper . ''
`` Goody ! ''
cried Peter and Johnny Chuck together , sitting down side by side on the very edge of the bank .
Grandfather Frog folded his hands across his white and yellow waistcoat and half closed his eyes , as if looking way , way back into the past .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he began .
`` A long , long time ago , when the world was young , there was very little dry land , and most of the animals lived in the water .
Yes , Sir , most of the animals lived in the water , as sensible animals do to-day . ''
Peter nudged Johnny Chuck .
`` He means himself and his family , '' he whispered with a chuckle .
`` After a time , '' continued Grandfather Frog , `` there began to be more land and still more .
Then some of the animals began to spend most of their time on the land .
As there got to be more and more land , more and more of the animals left the water , until finally most of them were spending nearly all of the time on land .
Now Old Mother Nature had been keeping a sharp watch , as she always does , and when she found that they were foolish enough to like the land best , she did all that she could to make things comfortable for them .
She taught them how to run and jump and climb and dig , according to which things they liked best to do , so that it was n't very long before a lot of them forgot that they ever had lived in the water , and they began to look down on those who still lived in the water , and to put on airs and hold their heads very high .
`` Now , of course , Old Mother Nature did n't like this , and to punish them she said that they should no longer be able to live in the water , even if they wanted to .
At first they only laughed , but after a while they found that quite often there were times when it would be very nice to be at home in the water as they once had been .
But it was of no use .
Some could swim as long as they could keep their heads above water , but as soon as they put their heads under water they were likely to drown .
You know that is the way with you to-day , Peter Rabbit . ''
Peter nodded .
He knew that he could swim if he had to , but only for a very little way , and he hated the thought of it .
`` Now there were a few animals , of whom old Mr. Muskrat , the grandfather a thousand times removed of Jerry Muskrat , was one , who learned to walk and run on dry land , but who still loved the water , '' continued Grandfather Frog .
`` One day Old Mother Nature found Mr. Muskrat sitting on a rock , looking very mournful . ''
` What 's the matter , Mr. Muskrat ? '
she asked .
`` Mr. Muskrat looked very much ashamed as he finally owned up that he was envious of his cousins and some of the other animals , because they had such fine houses on the land . ''
` Then why do n't you build you a fine house on the land ? '
asked Old Mother Nature .
`` Mr. Muskrat hesitated .
` I -- I -- love the water too well to want to stay on land all the time , ' said he , ` and -- and -- well , I was put in the water in the first place , and I ought to be contented with what I have got and make the best of it . '
`` Old Mother Nature was so pleased with Mr. Muskrat 's reply that right away she made up her mind that he should have a finer house than any of the others , so she took him over to a quiet little pool , where the water was not too deep and she showed him how to build a wonderful house of mud and rushes and twigs , with a nice warm bedroom lined with grass above the water , and an entrance down under the water , so that no one except those who still lived most of the time in the water could possibly get into it .
None of his friends on land had such a big , fine house , and Mr. Muskrat was very proud of it .
But with all his pride he never forgot that it was a reward for trying to be content with his surroundings and making the best of them .
`` So from that day to this , the Muskrats have built their houses in the water , and have been among the most industrious , contented , and happy of all the animals .
And that is why Jerry Muskrat has built that fine house in the Smiling Pool and has so few enemies , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit drew a long breath , which was almost a sigh .
`` I almost wish my grandfather a thousand times removed had been content to stay in the water , too , '' he said .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
retorted Grandfather Frog .
`` If he had , you would n't have the dear Old Briar-patch .
Be content with what you 've got , '' `` I think I will , '' said Peter .
VIII WHY OLD MAN COYOTE HAS MANY VOICES Of course Old Man Coyote has only one voice , but that one is such a wonderful voice that he can make it sound like a great many voices , all yelping and howling and shouting and laughing at the same time .
So those who hear him always say that he has many voices , and that certainly is the way it seems .
The first time Peter Rabbit heard Old Man Coyote , he was sure , absolutely sure , that there was a whole crowd of strangers on the Green Meadows , and you may be sure that he kept very close to his dear Old Briar-patch .
If you had been there and tried to tell Peter that all that noise was made by just one voice , he would n't have believed you .
No , Sir , he would n't have believed you .
And you could n't have blamed him .
It was the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind who first told Peter who the stranger was and warned him to watch out , because Old Man Coyote is just as fond of Rabbit as Granny or Reddy Fox , and is even more crafty and sly than they .
Peter thanked the Merry Little Breezes for the warning , and then he asked them how many of his family Old Man Coyote had brought with him .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes told Peter that Old Man Coyote was all alone , and they became very indignant when Peter laughed at them .
He just could n't help it .
`` Why , '' said he , `` every night I hear a whole crowd yelping and howling together . ''
`` But you do n't ! ''
insisted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` It is Old Man Coyote alone who makes all that noise . ''
`` Do n't you suppose I know what I hear ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` No ! ''
retorted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` You may have big ears and be able to hear a great deal , sometimes a great deal more than you have any business to hear , but you are old enough by this time to have learned that you can not believe all you hear . ''
And with that the Merry Little Breezes indignantly raced away to spread the news all over the Green Meadows .
Now Peter was quite as indignant because they thought he could n't or should n't believe his own ears , as they were because he would n't believe what they told him , and all the rest of that day he could n't put the matter out of his mind .
He was still thinking of it as the Black Shadows came creeping down from the Purple Hills across the Green Meadows .
Suddenly Peter saw a dark form skulking among the Black Shadows .
At first he thought it was Reddy Fox , only somehow it looked bigger .
Peter , safe in the dear Old Briar-patch , watched .
Presently the dark form came out from among the Black Shadows where Peter could see it clearly , sat down , pointed a sharp nose up at the first twinkling little stars , opened a big mouth , and out of it poured such a yelping and howling as made Peter shiver with fright .
And now Peter had to believe his eyes rather than his ears .
His ears told him that there were many voices , but his eyes told him that all that dreadful sound was coming out of one mouth .
It was hard , very hard , to believe , but it was so .
`` The Merry Little Breezes were right , '' muttered Peter to himself , as Old Man Coyote trotted away in the direction of the Green Forest , and he felt a wee bit ashamed to think that he had refused to believe them .
After that , Peter could think of nothing but Old Man Coyote 's wonderful voice that sounded like many voices , and at the very first opportunity he hurried over to the Smiling Pool to ask Grandfather Frog what it meant .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` It means simply that Old Man Coyote comes of a very smart family , and that he knows how to make the most of the gift of Old Mother Nature to his grandfather a thousand times removed . ''
This sounded so much like a story that Peter straightway teased Grandfather Frog to tell him all about it .
At last , to get rid of him and enjoy a little quiet and peace , Grandfather Frog did so .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he began , as he always does .
`` The great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Old Man Coyote , who lived long , long ago when the world was young , was very much as Old Man Coyote is to-day .
He was just as smart and just as clever .
Indeed , he was smart enough and clever enough not to let his neighbors know that he was smart and clever at all .
Those were very peaceful times at first , and everybody was on the best of terms with everybody else , as you know .
There was plenty to eat without the trouble to steal , and everybody was honest simply because it was easier to be honest than it was to be dishonest .
So Old King Bear ruled in the Green Forest , and everybody was happy and contented .
`` But there came a time when food was scarce , and it was no longer easy to get plenty to eat .
It was then that the stronger began to steal from the weaker , and by and by even to prey upon those smaller than themselves .
The times grew harder and harder , and because hunger is a hard and cruel master , it made the larger and stronger people hard and cruel , too .
Some of them it made very sly and cunning , like old Mr. Fox .
Mr. Coyote was another whom it made sly and cunning .
He was smart in the first place , even smarter than Mr. Fox , and he very early made up his mind that if he would live , it must be by his wits , for he was n't big enough or strong enough to fight with his neighbors such as his big cousin , Mr. Timber Wolf , or Mr. Lynx , or Mr. Panther or Old King Bear , who was king no longer .
And yet he liked the same things to eat .
`` So he used to study and plan how he could outwit them without danger to himself . '
A whole skin is better than a full stomach , but both a whole skin and a full stomach are better still , ' said he to himself ; as he thought and schemed .
For a while he was content to catch what he could without danger to himself , and to eat what his bigger and stronger neighbors left when they happened to get more than they wanted for themselves .
Little by little he got the habit of slyly following them when they were hunting , always keeping out of sight .
In this way , he managed to get many meals of scraps .
But these scraps never wholly satisfied him , and his mouth used to water as he watched the others feast on the very best when they had had a successful hunt .
He knew it would n't be of the least use to go out and boldly ask for some , for in those hard times everybody was very , very selfish .
`` The times grew harder and harder , until it seemed as if Old Mother Nature had wholly forgotten her little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Mr. Coyote still managed to pick up a living , but he was hungry most of the time , and the less he had to put in his stomach , the sharper his wits grew .
At last one day , as he stole soft-footed through the Green Forest , he discovered Mr. Lynx having a great feast .
To keep still and watch him was almost more than Mr. Coyote could stand , for he was so hungry that it seemed as if the sides of his stomach almost met , it was so empty . ''
` If I could make myself into three , we could take that dinner away from Mr. Lynx ! ''
thought he , and right on top of that thought came a great idea .
Why not make Mr. Lynx think he had a lot of friends with him ?
It would do no harm to try .
So Mr. Coyote put his nose up in the air and howled .
Mr. Lynx looked up and grinned .
He had no fear of Mr. Coyote .
Then Mr. Coyote hurried around to the other side of Mr. Lynx , all the time keeping out of sight , and howled again , and this time he tried to make his voice sound different .
Mr. Lynx stopped eating and looked up a little surprised . '
I wonder if Mr. Coyote has got a brother with him , ' thought he .
A minute later Mr. Coyote howled again from the place where he had howled in the first place .
` He certainly has , ' thought Mr. Lynx , ` but I 'm a match for two of them , ' and once more he went on eating .
`` Then Mr. Coyote began to run in a circle around Mr. Lynx , always keeping out of sight in the thick brush , and every few steps he yelped or howled , and each yelp or howl he tried to make sound different .
Now Mr. Coyote could run very fast , and he ran now as hard as ever he could in a big circle , yelping and howling and making his voice sound as different as possible each time .
Mr. Lynx grew anxious and lost his appetite .
` Mr. Coyote must have a whole crowd of brothers , ' thought he . '
I guess this is no place for me ! '
With that he started to sneak away .
`` Mr. Coyote followed him , still trying to make his voice sound like the voices of many .
Mr. Lynx gave a hurried look over his shoulder and began to run .
Mr. Coyote kept after him , yelping and howling , until he was sure that Mr. Lynx was so frightened that he would n't dare come back .
Then Mr. Coyote returned to the dinner Mr. Lynx had left , and ate and ate until he could n't hold another mouthful .
His throat was very raw and sore because he had strained it trying to make his voice change so often , but he did n't mind this , because , you know , it felt so good to have all he could eat at one time once more .
`` Now it just happened that Old Mother Nature had come along just in time to see and hear Mr. Coyote , and it tickled her so to think that Mr. Coyote had been so smart that what do you think she did ?
Why , while he slept that night , she healed his sore throat , and she gave him a new voice ; and this voice was very wonderful , for it sounded for all the world like many voices , all yelping and howling at the same time .
After that , all Mr. Coyote had to do when he wanted to frighten some one bigger and stronger than himself was to open his mouth and send forth his new voice , which sounded like many voices .
`` So he had plenty to eat from that time on .
And all his children and his children 's children had that same wonderful voice , just as Old Man Coyote has now .
Chug-a-rum !
Now scamper home , Peter Rabbit , and see that you do n't let Old Man Coyote 's sharp wits get you into trouble . ''
`` Thank you , Grandfather Frog ! ''
cried Peter and scampered as fast as he could go for the dear , safe Old Briar-patch .
IX WHY MINER THE MOLE LIVES UNDER GROUND Striped Chipmunk sat staring at a little ridge where the grass was raised up .
He had often seen little ridges like that without thinking much about them .
He knew that they were made by Miner the Mole .
He had known that ever since he was big enough to begin to ask questions .
But now as he looked at this one , it suddenly struck him that he had not seen Miner the Mole more than once or twice in all his life .
`` What a queer way of living ! ''
thought Striped Chipmunk .
`` It 's all very well to have a snug house under the ground , where one can sleep the long cold winter away and be perfectly safe , but what any one wants to live under the ground all the time for , in the beautiful springtime and summertime and autumntime , I ca n't understand .
Just think of all that Miner misses -- the sunshine , the flowers , the songs of the birds , and the Merry Little Breezes to play with !
I wonder -- '' `` What do you wonder ? ''
The voice was so close to Striped Chipmunk that it made him jump .
He whirled about .
There was Johnny Chuck , who had tiptoed up as softly as he knew how , to give Striped Chipmunk a scare .
Johnny grinned .
`` What do you wonder ? ''
he repeated .
Striped Chipmunk made a face at Johnny .
`` I wonder something that I bet you do n't know , '' he replied .
`` That 's easy , '' replied Johnny .
`` There are more things I do n't know than I do know , but I 'm always ready to learn .
What is it this time ? ''
`` Why does Miner the Mole live under ground all the time ? ''
Striped Chipmunk pointed to the ridge made by Miner .
Johnny Chuck scratched his head thoughtfully .
`` I do n't know , '' he confessed finally .
`` I never thought of it before .
Of course there must be a reason .
He never comes out to play with the rest of us -- just spends all his time by himself down in the dark , digging and digging .
I wonder -- '' `` Well , what do you wonder ? ''
`` The same thing you wonder , '' laughed Johnny Chuck .
`` If you have n't got anything else to do , let 's go down to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog ; he 'll be sure to know . ''
Striped Chipmunk had n't anything else to do , so off they started .
On the way they met Jimmy Skunk and Danny Meadow Mouse .
Neither of them knew why Miner the Mole lives under ground , and because they had n't anything better to do , they also started for the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog was sitting on his big green lily-pad in the warm sunshine , and for once he did n't have to be teased for a story .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he in his deep voice .
`` It 's very strange to me how little some folks know about their nearest neighbors . ''
He looked up and winked at jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun .
Striped Chipmunk , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , and Danny Meadow Mouse looked as though they felt very foolish , as indeed they did .
You see , all their lives Miner the Mole had been one of their nearest neighbors , and yet they did n't know the first thing about him .
`` It happened a long time ago , '' continued Grandfather Frog .
`` When the world was young ? ''
interrupted Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Of course , '' replied Grandfather Frog , pretending to be very much put out at such a foolish question .
Danny hung his head and resolved that he would bite his tongue before he asked another question .
`` In those days Miner 's great-great-grandfather a thousand times removed did n't live under ground , '' continued Grandfather Frog .
`` Nobody did .
He was n't so very different from a lot of other animals .
Food was plenty , and everybody was on the best of terms with everybody else .
Mr. Mole lived just as the rest did .
He went and came as he pleased , and enjoyed the sunshine and took part in all the good times of his neighbors .
Everybody liked him , and whenever he made a call , he was sure of a welcome .
But one thing Mr. Mole never did ; he never meddled in other people 's affairs .
No , Sir , Mr. Mole never poked his nose in where he had no business .
`` For a long time everything went smoothly with all the people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
Then came hard times .
They grew harder and harder .
Food was scarce and kept growing more scarce .
Everybody was hungry , and you know how it is with hungry people -- they grow ugly and quarrelsome .
Matters grew worse and worse , and then it was that fear was born .
The big people , like Old King Bear and Mr. Wolf and Mr. Panther and Mr. Lynx , began to look with hungry eyes on the little people , and the little people began to grow afraid and hide from the big people , and all the time they were continually quarreling among themselves and stealing from each other to get enough to eat .
`` Now , as I said before , Mr. Mole never had meddled with other people 's business , and he did n't now .
He went off by himself to think things over .
` It is n't safe to run around any more , ' said he . '
I met Mr. Wolf this morning , and he looked at me with such a hungry look in his eyes that it gave me the cold shivers .
I believe he would have eaten me , if I had n't crawled into an old hollow stump .
Now I ca n't run fast , because my legs are too short .
I ca n't climb trees like Mr. Squirrel , and I ca n't swim like Mr. Muskrat .
The only thing I can do is to dig . '
`` You see , Mr. Mole always had been very fond of digging , and he had done so much of it that his front legs and claws had grown very stout . ''
` Now if I dig a hole and keep out of sight , I wo n't have to worry about Mr. Wolf or anybody else , ' continued Mr. Mole to himself .
So he went to work at once and dug a hole on the Green Meadows , and , because he wanted to be comfortable , he made a big hole .
When it was finished , he was tired , so he curled up at the bottom for a nap .
He was awakened by hearing voices outside .
He knew those voices right away .
They were the voices of Mr. Fox and Mr. Badger . ''
` These are terrible times , ' said Mr. Fox .
` I 'm so hungry that I 'm wasting away to a shadow .
I wonder who has dug this hole . ' ''
` Mr. Mole , ' replied Mr. Badger . '
I saw him at work here this morning .
Have you noticed how very plump he looks ? ' ''
` Yes , ' replied Mr. Fox .
` He made my mouth water the very last time I saw him .
Seems to me I can smell him now .
If he had made this hole just a little bit bigger I would go down and pull him out , but I am too tired to do any digging now . ' '' '
I tell you what , ' replied Mr. Badger .
` We 'll hunt together a little longer , and then if we ca n't find anything to eat , we 'll come back , and I 'll help you dig , I hate to hurt Mr. Mole , because he always minds his own business , but these are hard times , and each one must look out for himself . '
`` With that they went away , leaving Mr. Mole shaking with fright at the bottom of his hole .
` It 's of no use , ' thought Mr. Mole .
` If I go outside , they will soon find me , and if I stay here , they will dig me out .
Oh , dear , oh , dear !
What ever can I do ? '
`` He lay there feeling very helpless and miserable , when all of a sudden a thought came to him .
If he had made his hole small , just big enough for him to crawl into , Mr. Badger and Mr. Fox would have had to do a great deal of digging to make it big enough for either of them to get in !
He would make a little tunnel off one side and hide in that .
So he went to work and made a little tunnel off one side just big enough for him to squeeze into .
He worked very hard and very fast , and by the time Mr. Badger and Mr. Fox returned , Mr. Mole was at the end of a long tunnel , so far from the hole he had first dug that he knew it would take them a long time to dig him out , even if they noticed his tunnel .
`` But they did n't .
They dug down to the bottom of his hole and then , because they did n't find him there , they straightway fell to quarreling , each blaming the other for suggesting such a lot of hard work for nothing .
Finally they went away , still calling each other names , and from that day to this , Foxes and Badgers have never been friends .
`` Mr. Mole was very thankful for his narrow escape , and it set him to thinking .
If he had a lot of these underground tunnels , no one would be able to catch him .
It was a splendid idea !
He went to work on it at once .
And then he made a discovery -- such a splendid discovery !
There was plenty of food to eat right down under ground -- worms and grubs -- all he needed .
After that , Mr. Mole spent all his time in his tunnels and seldom put his nose outside .
He was safe , and he was comfortable , and he could always find something to eat by digging for it .
`` Little by little his old neighbors forgot all about him .
Because he had little use for them , his eyes grew smaller and smaller , and when he did come up into the light , they hurt him so that he was glad to go back into the dark again .
He was perfectly happy and satisfied there , and what is there in life better than to be happy and satisfied ? ''
`` Nothing , '' replied Striped Chipmunk , at whom Grandfather Frog happened to be looking when he asked the question .
`` Right ! ''
replied Grandfather Frog .
`` And now you know why Miner the Mole lives under ground -- because he is perfectly happy and satisfied there . ''
Just then up came Peter Rabbit , all out of breath .
`` Has Grandfather Frog been telling a story ? ''
he panted .
`` Yes , '' replied Striped Chipmunk , winking at Grandfather Frog , `` and now we are going back home perfectly happy and satisfied . ''
And to this day Peter Rabbit wonders what the story was that he missed .
X WHY MR. SNAKE CAN NOT WINK Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck were playing tag on the Green Meadows .
Of course Peter can run so much faster than Johnny Chuck that he would never have been `` it '' if he had tried his best to keep out of the way .
But he did n't .
No , Sir , Peter Rabbit did n't do anything of the kind .
He pretended that one of his long hind-legs was lame so that he had to run on three legs , while Johnny Chuck could use all four .
It was great fun .
They raced and dodged and twisted and turned .
Sometimes Peter was so excited that he would forget and use all four legs .
Then Johnny Chuck would shout `` No fair ! ''
Peter would say that he did n't mean to , and to make up for it would be `` it '' and try to catch Johnny .
Now it happened that curled up on a little grassy tussock , taking an early morning sun-bath , lay little Mr. Greensnake .
Of course Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck were not afraid of him .
If it had been Mr. Rattlesnake or Mr. Gophersnake , it would have been different .
But from little Mr. Greensnake there was nothing to fear , and sometimes , just for fun , Peter would jump right over him .
When he did that , Peter always winked good-naturedly .
But Mr. Greensnake never winked back .
Instead he would raise his head , run his tongue out at Peter , and hiss in what he tried to make a very fierce and angry manner .
Then Peter would laugh and wink at him again .
But never once did Mr. Greensnake wink back .
-LSB- Illustration : He would make no reply , save to run out his tongue at them . -RSB-
Peter was thinking of this as he and Johnny Chuck stretched out in a sunny spot to get their breath and rest .
He had never thought of it before , but now that he had noticed it , he could n't remember that he ever had seen little Mr. Greensnake wink , nor any of Mr. Greensnake 's relatives .
He mentioned the matter to Johnny Chuck .
`` That 's so , '' replied Johnny thoughtfully .
`` I never have seen any of them wink , either .
Do you suppose they can wink ? ''
`` Let 's go ask Mr. Greensnake , '' said Peter .
Up they hopped and raced over to the grassy tussock where Mr. Greensnake lay , but to all their questions he would make no reply save to run out his tongue at them .
Finally they gave up asking him .
`` I tell you what , let 's go over to the Smiling Pool and ask Grandfather Frog .
He 'll be sure to know , and perhaps , if he is feeling good , he 'll tell us a story , '' said Peter .
So off they scampered to the Smiling Pool .
There they found Grandfather Frog sitting on his big green lily-pad just as usual , and Peter knew by the look in his great , goggly eyes that Grandfather Frog had a good breakfast of foolish green flies tucked away inside his white and yellow waistcoat .
His eyes twinkled as Peter and Johnny very politely wished him good morning .
`` Good morning , '' said he gruffly .
But Peter had seen that twinkle in his eyes and knew that Grandfather Frog was feeling good-natured in spite of his gruff greeting .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , why does n't Mr. Greensnake wink at us when we wink at him ? ''
he asked .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Because he ca n't , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Ca n't ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck together .
`` That 's what I said -- ca n't , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` And no more can Mr. Blacksnake , or Mr. Rattlesnake , or Mr. Gophersnake , or any other member of the Snake family . ''
`` Why not ? ''
cried Peter and Johnny , all in the same breath .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , folding his hands across his white and yellow waistcoat , `` if you will sit still until I finish , I 'll tell you ; but if you move or ask any foolish questions , I 'll stop right where I am , and you 'll never hear the end of the story , for no one else knows it . ''
Of course Peter and Johnny promised to sit perfectly still and not say a word .
After they had made themselves comfortable , Grandfather Frog cleared his throat as if to begin , but for a long time he did n't say a word .
Once Peter opened his mouth to ask why , but remembered in time and closed it again without making a sound .
At last Grandfather Frog cleared his throat once more , and with a far-away look in his great , goggly eyes began : `` Once upon a time , long , long ago , when the world was young , lived old Mr. Snake , the grandfather a thousand times removed of little Mr. Greensnake and all the other Snakes whom you know .
Of course he was n't old then .
He was young and spry and smart , was Mr. Snake .
Now there is such a thing as being too smart .
That was the trouble with Mr. Snake .
Yes , Sir , that was the trouble with Mr. Snake .
He was so smart that he soon found out that he was the smartest of all the meadow and forest people , and that was a bad thing .
It certainly was a very bad thing . ''
Grandfather Frog shook his head gravely .
`` You see , '' he continued , `` as soon as he found that out , he began to take advantage of his neighbors and cheat them , but he would do it so smoothly that they never once suspected that they were being cheated .
Mr. Snake would go about all day cheating everybody he met .
At night he would go home and chuckle over his smartness .
It was n't long before he began to look down on his neighbors for being so honest that they did n't suspect other people of being dishonest , and for being so easily cheated .
`` Now one bad habit almost always leads to another .
From cheating , Mr. Snake just naturally slipped to stealing .
Yes , Sir , he became a thief .
Of course that made trouble right away , but still no one suspected Mr. Snake .
He was always very polite to every one and always offering to do favors for his neighbors .
In fact , Mr. Snake was very well liked and much respected .
When any one had been robbed , he was always the first to offer sympathy and join in the hunt for the thief .
He was so spry and slim , and could slip through the tall grass so fast , that he could go almost where he pleased without being seen , and this made him very bold .
If he did happen to be found near the scene of trouble , he always had a story ready to account for his presence , and it sounded so true , and he told it in such an honest manner , that no one thought of doubting it .
`` So Mr. Snake found that lying helped him to cheat and steal , and all the time he kept thinking how smart he was .
But even Mr. Snake had a little bit of conscience , and once in a while it would trouble him .
So what do you think he did ?
Why , cheating had become such a habit with him that he actually tried to cheat himself -- to cheat his conscience !
When he was telling a lie , he would wink one eye .
` That , ' said he to himself , ` means that it is n't true , and if these folks are not smart enough to see me wink and know what it means , it is their own fault if they believe what I am telling them . '
But always he took care to wink the eye that was turned away from the one he was talking to .
`` Dear me , dear me , such terrible times as there were on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest !
They grew worse and worse , and when at last Old Mother Nature came to see how all the little people were getting along , she heard so many complaints that she hardly knew where to begin to straighten matters out .
She had all the little people come before her in turn and tell their troubles .
When it came Mr. Snake 's turn , he had no complaint to make .
He seemed to be the only one who had no troubles .
She asked him a great many questions , and for each one he had a ready reply .
Of course a great many of these replies were lies , and every time he told one of these , he winked without knowing it .
You see , it had become a habit .
`` Now , with all his smartness , Mr. Snake had forgotten one thing , one very important thing .
It was this : You ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it is of no use to try .
He had n't been talking three minutes before she knew who was at the bottom of all the trouble .
She let him finish , then called all the others about her and told them who had made all the trouble .
Mr. Snake was very bold .
He held his head very high in the air and pretended not to care .
When Old Mother Nature turned her head , he even ran out his tongue at her , just as all the Snake family do at you and me to-day .
When she had finished telling them how cheating and stealing and lying is n't smart at all , but very , very dreadful , she turned to Mr. Snake and said : '' ` From this time on , no one will believe anything you say , and you shall have no friends .
You will never wink again , for you and your children and your children 's children forever will have no eyelids , that all the world may know that those who make a wrong use of the things given them shall have them taken away . '
`` And now you know why little Mr. Greensnake can not wink at you ; he has n't any eyelids to wink with '' finished Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit drew a long breath .
`` Thank you , oh , thank you ever so much , Grandfather Frog , '' he said .
`` Will you tell us next time why Bobby Coon wears rings on his tail ? ''
`` Perhaps , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
XI WHY BOBBY COON HAS RINGS ON HIS TAIL Peter Rabbit would give Grandfather Frog no peace .
Every day Peter visited the Smiling Pool to tease Grandfather Frog for a story -- for one particular story .
He wanted to know why it is that Bobby Coon wears rings on his tail .
You see , Peter had admired Bobby Coon 's tail for a long time .
Peter has such a funny little tail himself , just a little white bunch of cotton , that such a handsome tail as Bobby Coon 's sometimes stirs just a wee bit of envy in Peter 's heart .
But it was n't envy so much as curiosity that prompted Peter to tease for that story .
Bobby Coon 's tail is very handsome , you know .
It has beautiful rings of black and gray , and Peter did n't know of any other tail at all like it .
Somehow , he felt right down deep in his heart that there must be a reason for those rings , just as there is a reason for his own long ears and long legs .
The more he thought about it , the more he felt that he simply must know , and the only way he could find out was from Grandfather Frog , who is very old and very wise .
So he teased and he teased until finally Grandfather Frog promised him that on the next afternoon he would tell Peter why Bobby Coon has rings on his tail .
Peter hurried away to tell all the little meadow and forest people , and the next afternoon they were all on hand on the bank of the Smiling Pool to hear the story about Bobby Coon 's tail .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
began Grandfather Frog , smoothing down his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Some folks seem to think that what they do does n't matter to anybody but themselves .
That was the way with old Mr. Rabbit , who lived a long time ago when the world was young .
He thought he could make all the trouble he pleased by his dreadful curiosity , and if he was found out , no one would suffer but himself .
But it was n't so .
Here is Peter Rabbit , his grandchild a thousand times removed , with long legs and long ears , and the bad habit of curiosity , all because old Mr. Rabbit had a bad habit and did n't try to overcome it .
`` It was the same way with old Mr. Coon .
He was dishonest and stole from Old King Bear .
Old Mother Nature punished him by putting mustard in his food , and Mr. Coon thought he was so smart that he could get ahead of Old Mother Nature by washing all his food before he ate it .
Old Mother Nature did n't say anything , but watched him and smiled to herself .
You see , she knew that Mr. Coon was beginning a good habit , a very good habit indeed -- the habit of neatness .
So , though she knew perfectly well that he was doing it just to get ahead of her , she was glad , for she was fond of Mr. Coon in spite of the bad ways he had grown into , and she knew that good habits are like bad habits -- once started they grow and grow , and are very likely to lead to more good habits .
`` It was so with Mr. Coon .
He found that his food tasted better for being so clean , and he grew very fussy about what he ate .
No matter where he found it or how tempting it looked , he would n't eat it until he had carried it to the nearest water and washed it .
He still remembered the mustard and tried to fool himself into thinking that he was simply spiting Old Mother Nature , but right down in his heart he knew that even if he should be told that never again would there be mustard in his food , he would wash it just the same .
`` One day , as he sat beside the Laughing Brook eating his supper , he noticed that while his food had been washed clean , his hands were dirty .
They spoiled his supper .
Yes , Sir , they spoiled his supper . ''
` What good does it do to wash my food , if I eat it out of dirty hands ? '
said Mr. Coon to himself , and he hurried to a quiet little pool to give them a good scrubbing .
Then he washed his face and brushed his coat .
` Now I feel better , and I know my supper will taste better , ' said he .
`` From that time he began to be particular , very particular , about keeping himself clean , until finally there was no one on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest quite so neat as Mr. Coon .
`` Now at this time Mr. Coon had a very plain tail .
It was all of one color , a grayish white , not at all pretty .
Mr. Coon used to think a great deal about that tail and wish and wish that it was handsome .
Sometimes he used to envy Mr. Fox his beautiful red tail with its black and white tip .
One day , as he sat on an old log with his chin in his hands , thinking about his tail , who should come along but Old Mother Nature . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Coon , ' said she in her pleasantest voice .
`` Mr. Coon got up and made a very low bow .
` Good morning , Mother Nature , ' he replied in his politest manner , which was very polite indeed . ''
` What were you thinking about so hard ? '
asked Old Mother Nature .
`` Mr. Coon looked a little bit ashamed .
Then he sighed . '
I was wishing that my tail was handsomer , ' said he .
` But it is a very good tail as it is , ' he added hastily .
`` Old Mother Nature 's eyes twinkled .
She sat down beside Mr. Coon and asked him all about his affairs , just as if she did n't know all about them already .
She told him how pleased she was to find him so neat and clean , and Mr. Coon just tingled all over with pleasure .
At last she got up to go , and her eyes twinkled more than ever , as she said : '' ` By the way , Mr. Coon , I am so pleased with your neatness that I am leaving you a reward .
I hope you will like it . '
`` Mr. Coon did n't see any reward , but he thanked her just the same , and Old Mother Nature went on her way .
Mr. Coon watched her out of sight .
Then he sat down on the old log again and scratched his head thoughtfully as he looked this way and that . '' '
I wonder what she meant by reward .
I do n't see any anywhere , ' he said to himself .
`` By and by he just happened to glance at his tail .
` Oh ! '
cried Mr. Coon , and then for a long time he could n't say another word , but just looked and looked with shining eyes and such a queer feeling of happiness in his heart .
You see , Old Mother Nature had left a beautiful , broad , black ring around his tail .
Mr. Coon could n't do anything the rest of that day but look at and admire that ring , until his neck ached from twisting it around so long .
`` After that he was neater than ever , you may be sure , and the next time Old Mother Nature came around , she left another handsome black ring on his tail , because he had n't grown careless , but had kept up his good habits .
`` Now about this time , hard times came to all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
Every one began to grumble .
Mr. Bear grumbled .
Mr. Fox grumbled .
Mr. Rabbit grumbled .
Mr. Jay grumbled .
Mr. Squirrel grumbled .
Even Mr. Chuck grumbled .
And one and all they began to blame Old Mother Nature .
Then they began to quarrel among themselves and to steal from each other .
Some even left their homes and went out into the Great World to try to find a better place to live , only to find that the Great World was a harder place to live in than the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
`` But Mr. Coon did n't grumble , and he did n't go away .
No , Sir , Mr. Coon just stuck to his home and did the best he could to find enough to eat .
He kept himself as neat as ever and was always cheerful .
Whenever he met one of his grumbling neighbors , he would say : '' ` Better times coming !
Better times coming !
Old Mother Nature is doing the best she can .
Better times coming ! '
`` The others would laugh at him for his faith in Old Mother Nature , and say ugly things about her , and urge Mr. Coon to go with them out into the Great World .
But he kept right on minding his own business and keeping neat and cheerful , until at last Old Mother Nature , all worried and troubled , came to see what she could do to straighten matters out .
It did n't take her long to find out how all the little meadow and forest people , except Mr. Coon , had grumbled and been discontented and said ugly things about her , for you ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
Some she punished one way , and some she punished another way , for of course she had n't been to blame for the hard times , but had been working night and day to put an end to them .
`` Mr. Coon was the last to be called before her , and instead of being frowning and cross , as she had been to the others , she was all smiles .
She said a lot of nice things to him , and when at last she sent him away , what do you think she had given him ? ''
`` More rings , '' cried Peter Rabbit .
`` Yes , '' replied Grandfather Frog , `` Mr. Coon 's tail was ringed way to the tip .
There was one for cheerfulness , and one for faith , and one for persistence in making the best of a bad matter and staying at home .
And ever since that long-ago day when the world was young , the Coons have been very proud of their beautiful tails and have kept up the good habits of old Mr. Coon .
Now you know , Peter Rabbit , why Bobby Coon wears rings on his tail , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
Peter gave a long sigh .
`` I think it 's perfectly beautiful , '' he said .
`` I wish I had rings on my tail . ''
And then he wondered why everybody laughed .
XII WHY THERE IS A BLACK HEAD IN THE BUZZARD FAMILY Ol' Mistah Buzzard had just told the story of why he has a bald head and is proud of it .
You know he has n't a feather on it , and it is very , very red .
It was a very interesting story , and it had been listened to with the closest attention by a lot of the little meadow and forest people .
Unc ' Billy Possum , who is Ol' Mistah Buzzard 's particular friend , both having come from `` way down souf , '' happened along just in time to hear the end of it .
`` May Ah ask yo ' a question , Brer Buzzard ? ''
said he .
`` Cert ` nly , Brer Possum .
Cert ` nly , '' replied Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Is Buzzard really your fam ` ly name ? ''
asked Unc ' Billy .
`` No , Brer Possum , it is n't , '' replied Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Everybody looked surprised .
You see , no one ever had heard him called anything but Buzzard .
But no one said anything , and after a minute or two Ol' Mistah Buzzard explained .
`` Mah fam ` ly name is Vulture , '' said he .
`` Yes , Sah , mah fam ` ly name is Vulture , but we-uns done been called Buzzards so long , that Ah don ' know as Ah would know Ah was being spoken to , if Ah was called Mistah Vulture . ''
`` An ' do Ah understand that all of your fam ` ly have red haids ? ''
inquired Unc ' Billy .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard looked down at Unc ' Billy , and he saw a twinkle in Unc ' Billy 's shrewd little eyes .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard grinned .
`` Ah knows jes ' what yo ' done got in your mind , Brer Possum , '' said he .
`` It 's that trifling , no ` count cousin of mine .
He 's a Buzzard , or a Vulture , if yo ' like that better , jes ' like Ah am , but he belongs to another branch of the fam ` ly .
He has a bald haid , jes ' like Ah have , but his haid is black instead of red .
That 's because his grandpap was trifling an ' po ' trash , jes ' like he is . ''
Peter Rabbit pricked up his ears .
This sounded like another story .
He was curious about that black-headed cousin of Ol' Mistah Buzzard , very curious indeed .
He wondered if Ol' Mistah Buzzard would have to be teased for a story , like Grandfather Frog .
Anyway , he would find out .
There would be no harm in trying .
`` If you please , how does your cousin happen to have a black head ? ''
asked Peter as politely as he knew how .
`` Because his grandpap asked too many questions , '' replied Ol' Mistah Buzzard , slyly winking at the others .
Everybody laughed , for everybody knows that no one asks more questions than Peter Rabbit .
Peter laughed with the rest , although he looked a wee bit foolish .
But he did n't mean to give up just because he was laughed at .
Oh , my , no !
`` Please , Mr. Buzzard , please tell us the story , '' he begged .
Now Ol' Mistah Buzzard is naturally good-natured and accommodating , and when Peter begged so hard , he just could n't find it in his heart to refuse .
Besides , he rather enjoys telling stories .
So he shook his feathers out , half spread his wings to let the air blow under them , looked down at all the little meadow and forest people gathered about the foot of the tall , dead tree where he delights to roost , grinned at them in the funniest way , and then began this story : `` Way back in the days when Grandpap Buzzard had his lil falling out with ol' King Eagle and done fly so high he sco ` tch the feathers offen his haid , he had a cousin , did Grandpap Buzzard , and this cousin was jes ' naturally lazy and no ` count .
Like most no ` count people , he used to make a regular nuisance of hisself , poking his nose into ev ` ybody 's business and never ` tending to his own .
Was n't anything going on that this trifling member of the Buzzard fam ` ly did n't find out about and meddle in .
He could ask mo ' questions than Peter Rabbit can , an ' anybody that can do that has got to ask a lot . ''
Everybody looked at Peter and laughed .
Peter made a funny face and laughed too .
`` Seemed like he jes ' went ` round from mo ` ning to night asking questions , '' continued Ol' Mistah Buzzard , `` Got so that eve ` ybody dreaded to see that no ` count Buzzard coming , because he bound to pester with questions about things what do n't concern him no ways .
`` Now yo ' know that way down in Ol' Virginny where Ah done come from , mah fam ` ly done got the habit of sitting on the tops of chimneys in the wintertime to warm their toes . ''
`` Why , I thought it was warm down south ! ''
interrupted Peter Rabbit .
`` So it is , Brer Rabbit !
So it is ! ''
Ol' Mistah Buzzard hastened to say .
`` But yo ' see , ol' Jack Frost try to come down there sometimes , an ' he cool the air off a right smart lot before he turn tail an ' run back where he belong .
So we-uns sit on the chimney-tops whenever ol' Jack Frost gets to straying down where he have no business .
Yo ' see , if we-uns keep our toes warm , we-uns are warm all over .
`` One day this no ` count , trifling cousin of Grandpap Buzzard get cold in his feet .
He look ` round right smart fo ' a chimney fo ' to warm his toes , an ' pretty soon he see one where he never been before .
It was on a lil ol' house , a lil ol' tumble-down house .
Mistah Buzzard fly right over an ' sit on that chimney-top fo ' to warm his toes .
Of course he right smart curious about that lil ol' tumble-down house and who live there .
He hear somebody inside talking to theirself , but he ca n't hear what they say , jes ' a mumbling sound that come up the chimney to him .
`` He listen an ' listen .
Then he shift ` round to the other side of the chimney an ' listen .
No matter where he sit , he ca n't hear what being said down inside that lil ol' tumble-down house .
Then what do yo ' think Mistah Buzzard do ?
Why , he jes ' stretch his fool haid as far down that chimney as he can an ' listen an ' listen .
Yes , Sah , that is jes ' what that no ` count Buzzard do .
But all he hear is jes ' a mumbling and a mumbling , an ' that make him more curious than ever .
It seem to him that he must go clean outen his haid ` less he hear what going on down inside that lil ol' house .
`` Now when he stretch his haid an ' neck down the chimney that way , he get 'em all black with soot .
But he do n't mind that .
No , Sah , he don ' mind that a bit .
Fact is , he don ' notice it .
He so curious he don ' notice anything , an ' pretty soon he plumb fo ` get where he is an ' that he is listening where he have no business .
He plumb fo ` get all about this , an ' he holler down that chimney .
Yes , Sah , he holler right down that chimney ! ''
` Will yo ' - alls please speak a lil louder , ' he holler down the chimney , jes ' like that .
`` Now the lil ol' woman what lived by herself in that lil ol' tumble-down house had n't seen that no ` count Buzzard light on the chimney fo ' to warm his toes , an ' when she hear that voice coming right outen the fireplace , she was some flustrated and scared , was that lil ol' woman .
Yes , Sah , she sho ` ly was plumb scared .
She so scared she tip over a whole kettleful of soup right in the fire .
Of course that make a terrible mess an ' a powerful lot of smoke an ' hot ashes fly up the chimney .
They like to choke that no ` count Buzzard to death .
They burn the feathers offen his haid an ' neck , an ' the soot make him black , all but his feet an ' laigs an ' the inside of his wings , which he keep closed .
`` Mistah Buzzard he give a mighty squawk an ' fly away .
When he get home , he try an ' try to brush that soot off , but it done get into the skin an ' it stay there .
An ' from that day his haid an ' neck stay black , an ' he never speak lessen he spoken to , an ' then he only grunt .
His chillen jes ' like him , an ' his chillen 's chillen the same way .
An ' that is the reason that mah cousin who lives down souf done have a black haid , '' concluded Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
A little sigh of satisfaction went around the circle of listeners .
As usual , Peter Rabbit was the first to speak .
`` That was a splendid story , Mr. Buzzard , '' said he , `` and I 'm ever and ever so much obliged to you .
It was just as good as one of Grandfather Frog 's . ''
Ol' Mistah Buzzard grinned and slowly winked one eye at Unc ' Billy Possum as he replied : `` Thank yo ' , Brer Rabbit .
That 's quite the nicest thing yo ' could say . ''
`` But it 's true ! ''
shouted all together , and then everybody gave three cheers for Ol' Mistah Buzzard before starting off to attend to their own private affairs .
XIII WHY BUSTER BEAR APPEARS TO HAVE NO TAIL Peter Rabbit had something new to bother his bump of curiosity .
And it did bother it a lot .
He had just seen Buster Bear for the first time , and what do you think had impressed him most ?
Well , it was n't Buster 's great size , or wonderful strength , or big claws , or deep , grumbly-rumbly voice .
No , Sir , it was n't one of these .
It was the fact that Buster Bear seemed to have no tail !
Peter could n't get over that .
He almost pitied Buster Bear .
You see , Peter has a great admiration for fine tails .
He has always been rather ashamed of the funny little one he has himself .
Still , it is a real tail , and he has often comforted himself with that thought .
So the first thing Peter did when he saw Buster Bear was to look to see what kind of a tail he had .
Just imagine how surprised he was when he could n't make sure that Buster had any tail at all .
There was something that might , just might , be meant for a tail , and Peter was n't even sure of that .
If it was , it was so ridiculously small that Peter felt that he had no reason to be ashamed of his own tail .
He was still thinking about this when he started for home .
Half way there , he paused , saw that the way to the Smiling Pool was clear , and suddenly made up his mind to ask Grandfather Frog about Buster Bear 's tail .
Off he started , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' he panted , as soon as he reached the edge of the Smiling Pool , `` has Buster Bear got a tail ? ''
Grandfather Frog regarded Peter in silence for a minute or two .
Then very slowly he asked : `` What are your eyes for , Peter Rabbit ?
Could n't you see whether or not he has a tail ? ''
`` No , Grandfather Frog .
I really could n't tell whether he has a tail or not , '' replied Peter quite truthfully .
`` At first I thought he had n't , and then I thought he might have .
If he has , it does n't seem to me that it is enough to call a really truly tail . ''
`` Well , it is a really truly tail , even if you do n't think so , '' retorted Grandfather Frog , `` and he has it for a reminder . ''
`` A reminder ! ''
exclaimed Peter , looking very much puzzled .
`` A reminder of what ? ''
Grandfather Frog cleared his throat two or three times .
`` Sit down , Peter , and learn a lesson from the tale of the tail of Old King Bear , '' said he very seriously .
`` You remember that once upon a time , long ago , when the world was young , Old King Bear ruled in the Green Forest , and everybody brought tribute to him . ''
Peter nodded and Grandfather Frog went on .
`` Now Old King Bear was the great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Buster Bear , and he looked very much as Buster does , except that he did n't have any tail at all , not the least sign of a tail .
At first , before he was made king of the Green Forest , he did n't mind this at all .
In fact , he was rather pleased that he did n't have a tail .
You see , he could n't think of any earthly use he would have for a tail , and so he was glad that he had n't got one to bother with .
`` This was just Old Mother Nature 's view of the matter .
She had done her very best to give everybody everything that they really needed , and not to give them things which they did n't need .
She could n't see that Mr. Bear had the least need of a tail , and so she had n't given him one .
Mr. Bear was perfectly happy without one , and was so busy getting enough to eat that he did n't have time for silly thoughts or vain wishes .
`` Then he was made king over all the people of the Green Forest , and his word was law .
It was a very great honor , and for a while he felt it so and did his best to rule wisely .
He went about just as before , hunting for his living , and had no more time than before for foolish thoughts or vain wishes .
But after a little , the little people over whom he ruled began to bring him tribute , so that he no longer had to hunt for enough to eat .
Indeed , he had so much brought to him , that he could n't begin to eat all of it , and he grew very dainty and fussy about what he did eat .
Having nothing to do but eat and sleep , he grew very fat and lazy , as is the case with most people who have nothing to do .
He grew so fat that when he walked , he puffed and wheezed .
He grew so lazy that he wanted to be waited on all the time .
`` It happened about this time that he overheard Mr. Fox talking to Mr. Wolf when they both thought him asleep . '
A pretty kind of a king , he is ! '
sneered Mr. Fox .
` The idea of a king without a tail ! ' ''
` That 's so , ' assented Mr. Wolf .
` Why , even that little upstart , Mr. Rabbit , has got a make-believe tail . ' ''
Grandfather Frog 's eyes twinkled as he said this , and Peter looked very much embarrassed .
But he did n't say anything , so Grandfather Frog went on .
`` Old King Bear pretended to wake up just then , and right away Mr. Fox and Mr. Wolf were as polite and smiling as you please and began to flatter him .
They told him how proud they were of their king , and how handsome he was , and a lot of other nice things , all of which he had heard often before and had believed .
He pretended to believe them now , but after they were through paying their respects and had gone away , he kept turning over and over in his mind what he had overheard them say when they thought he was asleep .
`` After that he could n't think of anything but the fact that he had n't any tail .
He took particular notice of all who came to pay him tribute , and he saw that every one of them had a tail .
Some had long tails ; some had short tails ; some had handsome tails and some had homely tails ; but everybody had a tail of some kind .
The more he tried not to think of these tails , the more he did think of them .
The more he thought of them , the more discontented he grew because he had none .
He did n't stop to think that probably all of them had use for their tails .
No , Sir , he did n't think of that .
Everybody else had a tail , and he had n't .
He felt that it was a disgrace that he , the king , should have no tail .
He brooded over it so much that he lost his appetite and grew cross and peevish .
`` Then along came Old Mother Nature to see how things were going in the Green Forest .
Of course she saw right away that something was wrong with Old King Bear .
When she asked him what the matter was , he was ashamed to tell her at first .
But after a little he told her that he wanted a tail ; that he could never again be happy unless he had a tail .
She told him that he had n't the least use in the world for a tail , and that he would n't be any happier if he had one .
Nothing that she could say made any difference -- he wanted a tail .
Finally she gave him one .
`` For a few days Old King Bear was perfectly happy .
He spent all his spare time admiring his new tail .
He called the attention of all his subjects to it , and they all told him that it was a very wonderful tail and was very becoming to him .
But it was n't long before he found that his new tail was very much in the way .
It bothered him when he walked .
It was in the way when he sat down .
It was a nuisance when he climbed a tree .
He did n't have a single use for it , and yet he had to carry it with him wherever he went .
Worse still , he overheard little Mr. Squirrel and Mr. Possum making fun of it .
And then he discovered that the very ones who admired his tail so to his face were laughing at him and poking fun at him behind his back .
`` And then Old King Bear wished that he had n't a tail more than ever he wished that he did have a tail .
Again he lost his appetite and grew cross and peevish , so that no one dared come near him .
So matters went from bad to worse , until once more Old Mother Nature visited the Green Forest to see how things were .
Very humbly Old King Bear went down on his knees and begged her to take away his tail .
At first Old Mother Nature refused , but he begged so hard and promised so faithfully never again to be discontented , that finally she relented and took away his tail , all but just a wee little bit .
That she left as a reminder lest he should forget the lesson he had learned and should again grow envious .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Then Old King Bear wished that he had n't a tail . '' -RSB-
`` And every bear since that long-ago day has carried about with him a reminder -- you can hardly call it a real tail -- of the silly , foolish discontent of Old King Bear , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
Peter Rabbit scratched one long ear thoughtfully as he replied : `` Thank you , Grandfather Frog .
I think that hereafter I will be quite content with what I 've got and never want things it is not meant that I should have . ''
XIV WHY FLITTER THE BAT FLIES AT NIGHT -LSB- Illustration : `` It must be fine to fly , '' thought Peter .
`` I wish I could fly . '' -RSB-
Flitter the Bat made Peter Rabbit 's head dizzy .
Peter could n't help watching him .
He just had to .
It seemed so wonderful that Flitter could really fly , that whenever he saw him , Peter had to stop and watch .
And then , as he saw Flitter twist and turn , fly high , fly low , and go round and round , Peter 's head would begin to swim and grow dizzy , and he wondered and wondered how it was that Flitter himself did n't grow dizzy .
`` It must be fine to fly , '' thought Peter .
`` I wish I could fly .
If I could , I would n't spend all my time flying around the way Flitter does .
I 'd go on long journeys and see the Great World .
I 'd fly way , way up in the blue , blue sky , the way Ol' Mistah Buzzard does , where I could look down and see all that is going on in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows .
And I 'd fly in the daytime , because there is more going on then .
I wonder , now , why it is that Flitter never comes out until after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun has gone to bed behind the Purple Hills .
I never see him in the daytime , and I do n't even know where he keeps himself .
I never thought of it before , but I wonder why it is that he flies only at night .
I believe I 'll ask Grandfather Frog the very next time I see him . ''
Now you know that once Peter Rabbit 's curiosity is aroused , it just has to be satisfied .
No sooner did he begin to wonder about Flitter the Bat than he could think of nothing else .
So he watched until the way was clear , and then he started for the Smiling Pool as fast as he could go , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
He hoped he would find Grandfather Frog sitting as usual on his big green lily-pad , and that he would be good-natured .
If he was n't feeling good-natured , it would be of no use to ask him for a story .
When Peter reached the Smiling Pool he was disappointed , terribly disappointed .
The big green lily-pad was there , but there was no one sitting on it .
Somehow the Smiling Pool did n't seem quite like itself without Grandfather Frog sitting there watching for foolish green flies .
Peter 's face showed just how disappointed he felt .
He was just going to turn away when a great , deep voice said : `` Chug-a-rum !
Where are your manners , Peter Rabbit , that you forget to speak to your elders ? ''
Peter stared eagerly into the Smiling Pool , and presently he saw two great , goggly eyes and the top of a green head , way out almost in the middle of the Smiling Pool .
It was Grandfather Frog himself , having his morning swim .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , I did n't see you at all ! ''
cried Peter , `` If I had , of course I would have spoken .
The fact is , I -- I -- '' `` You want a story , '' finished Grandfather Frog for him .
`` You ca n't fool me , Peter Rabbit .
You came over here just to ask me for a story .
I know you , Peter !
I know you !
Well , what is it this time ? ''
`` If you please , '' replied Peter politely and happily , for he saw that Grandfather Frog was feeling good-natured , `` why is it that Flitter the Bat flies only at night ? ''
Grandfather Frog climbed out on his big green lily-pad and made himself comfortable .
Peter sat still and tried not to show how impatient he felt .
Grandfather Frog took his time .
It tickled him to see how hard impatient Peter was trying to be patient , and his big , goggly eyes twinkled .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he at last , with a suddenness that made Peter jump .
`` That 's very good , Peter , very good indeed !
Now I 'll tell you the story . ''
Of course he meant that Peter 's effort to keep still was very good , but Peter did n't know this , and he could n't imagine what Grandfather Frog meant .
However , what he cared most about was the story , so he settled himself to listen , his long ears standing straight up , and his eyes stretched wide open as he watched Grandfather Frog .
The latter cleared his throat two or three times , each time as if he intended to begin right then .
It was one of Grandfather Frog 's little jokes .
He did it just to tease Peter .
At last he really did begin , and the very first thing he did was to ask Peter a question .
`` What is the reason that you stay in the dear Old Briar-patch when Reddy Fox is around ? ''
`` So that he wo n't catch me , of course , '' replied Peter .
`` Very good , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` Now , why do you go over to the sweet-clover patch every day ? ''
`` Why , because there is plenty to eat there , '' replied Peter , looking very , very much puzzled .
`` Well , now you 've answered your own question , '' grunted Grandfather Frog .
`` Flitter flies at night because he is safest then , and because he can find plenty to eat . ''
`` Oh , '' said Peter , and his voice sounded dreadfully disappointed .
He had found out what he had wanted to know , but he had n't had a story .
He fidgeted about and looked very hard at Grandfather Frog , but the latter seemed to think that he had told Peter what he wanted to know , and that was all there was to it .
Finally Peter sighed , and it was such a heavy sigh !
Then very slowly he turned his back on the Smiling Pool and started to hop away .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog in his deepest , story-telling voice .
`` A long time ago when the world was young , the great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Flitter the Bat first learned to fly . ''
`` I know ! ''
cried Peter eagerly .
`` You told me about that , and it was a splendid story . ''
`` But when he learned to fly , he found that Old Mother Nature never gives all her blessings to any single one of her little people , '' continued Grandfather Frog , without paying the least attention to Peter 's interruption .
`` Old Mr. Bat had wings ; something no other animal had , but he found that he could no longer run and jump .
He could just flop about on the ground , and was almost helpless .
Of course that meant that he could very easily be caught , and so the ground was no longer a safe place for him .
But he soon found that he was not safe in the air in daytime .
Old Mr. Hawk could fly even faster than he , and Mr. Hawk was always watching for him .
At first , Mr. Bat did n't know what to do .
He did n't like to go to Old Mother Nature and complain that his new wings were not all that he had thought they would be .
That would look as if he were ungrateful for her kindness in giving him the wings . ''
` I 've got to think of some way out of my troubles myself , ' thought old Mr. Bat .
` When I 'm sure that I ca n't , it will be time enough to go to Old Mother Nature . '
`` Now of course it is very hard to think when you are twisting and dodging and turning in the air . ''
`` Of course ! ''
said Peter Rabbit , just as if he knew all about it .
`` So Mr. Bat went looking for a place where he could be quiet all by himself and think without danger of being gobbled up for some one 's dinner , '' continued Grandfather Frog .
`` He flew and he flew and had almost given up hope of finding any such place when he saw a cave .
It looked very black inside , but it was big enough for Mr. Bat to fly into , and in he went .
He knew that Mr. Hawk would never come in there , and when he found a little shelf up near the roof , he knew that he was safe from any four-footed enemies who might follow him there .
It was just the place to rest and think .
So he rested , and while he rested , he thought and thought .
`` By and by he noticed that it was growing dark outside .
` My goodness !
If I am going to get anything to eat to-day , I shall have to hurry , ' thought he .
When he got outside , he found that Mr. Sun had gone to bed .
So had all the birds , except Mr. Owl and Mr. Nighthawk .
Now Mr. Nighthawk does n't belong to the Hawk family at all , so there was nothing to fear from him .
Then Mr. Bat had a very pleasant surprise .
He found the air full of insects , ever so many more than in the daytime .
By being very smart and quick he caught a few before it was too dark for him to see .
They did n't fill his stomach , but they kept him from starving .
As he flew back to the cave , a great idea came to him , the idea for which he had been thinking so hard .
He would sleep days in the cave , where he was perfectly safe , and come out to hunt bugs and insects just as soon as Mr. Hawk had gone to bed !
Then he would be safe and would not have to complain to Old Mother Nature .
`` At first old Mr. Bat , who was n't old then , you know , had hard work to catch enough insects before it grew too dark , but he found that every night he could see a little longer and a little better than the night before , until by and by he could see as well in the dusk as he used to see in the daytime .
Then he realized that Old Mother Nature had once more been very good to him , and that she had helped him just as she always helps those who help themselves .
She had given him night-seeing eyes , and he no more had to go hungry .
`` Mr. Bat was very grateful , and from that day to this , Bats have been content to live in caves and fly in the evening .
You ask Flitter if it is n't so . ''
Peter grinned .
`` He never stays in one place long enough for me to ask him anything , '' said he .
`` I 'm ever so much obliged for the story , Grandfather Frog .
It pays to make the best of what we have , does n't it ? ''
`` It certainly does .
Chug-a-rum !
It certainly does ! ''
replied Grandfather Frog .
XV WHY SPOTTY THE TURTLE CARRIES HIS HOUSE WITH HIM Spotty the Turtle sat on an old log on the bank of the Smiling Pool , taking a sun-bath .
He had sat that way for the longest time without once moving .
Peter Rabbit had seen him when he went by on his way to the Laughing Brook and the Green Forest to look for some one to pass the time of day with .
Spotty was still there when Peter returned a long time after , and he did n't look as if he had moved .
A sudden thought struck Peter .
He could n't remember that he ever had seen Spotty 's house .
He had seen the houses of most of his other friends , but think as hard as ever he could , he did n't remember having seen Spotty 's .
`` Hi , Spotty ! ''
he shouted .
`` Where do you live ? ''
Spotty slowly turned his head and looked up at Peter .
There was a twinkle in his eyes , though Peter did n't see it .
`` Right here in the Smiling Pool .
Where else should I live ? ''
he replied .
`` I mean , where is your house ? ''
returned Peter .
`` Of course I know you live in the Smiling Pool , but where is your house ?
Is it in the bank or down under water ? ''
`` It is just wherever I happen to be .
Just now it is right here , '' said Spotty .
`` I always take it with me wherever I go ; I find it much the handiest way . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` Hi , Spotty ! ''
he shouted .
`` Where do you live ? '' -RSB-
With that Spotty disappeared .
That is to say , his head and legs and tail disappeared .
Peter stared very hard .
Then he began to laugh , for it came to him that what Spotty had said was true .
His house was with him , and now he had simply retired inside .
He did n't need any other house than just that hard , spotted shell , inside of which he was now so cosily tucked away .
`` That 's a great idea !
Ho , ho , ho !
That 's a great idea ! ''
shouted Peter .
`` Of course it is , '' replied Spotty , putting nothing but his head out , `` You will always find me at home whenever you call , Peter , and that is more than you can say of most other people . ''
All the way to his own home in the dear Old Briar-patch , Peter thought about Spotty and how queer it was that he should carry his house around with him .
`` I wonder how it happens that he does it , '' thought he .
`` No wonder he is so slow .
Of course , it is very handy to have his house always with him .
As he says , he is always at home .
Still , when he is in a hurry to get away from an enemy , it must be very awkward to have to carry his house on his back .
I -- I -- why , how stupid of me !
He does n't have to run away at all !
All he has got to do is to go inside his house and stay there until the danger is past !
I never thought of that before .
Why , that is the handiest thing I ever heard of . ''
Now Peter knew that there must be a good story about Spotty and his house , and you know Peter dearly loves a good story .
So at the very first opportunity the next day , he hurried over to the Smiling Pool to ask Grandfather Frog about it .
As usual , Grandfather Frog was sitting on his big green lily-pad .
No sooner did Peter pop his head above the edge of the bank of the Smiling Pool than Grandfather Frog exclaimed : `` Chug-a-rum !
You 've kept me waiting a long time , Peter Rabbit .
I do n't like to be kept waiting .
If you wanted to know about Spotty the Turtle , why did n't you come earlier ? ''
All the time there was a twinkle in the big , goggly eyes of Grandfather Frog .
Peter was so surprised that he could n't find his tongue .
He had n't said a word to any one about Spotty , so how could Grandfather Frog know what he had come for ?
For a long time he had had a great deal of respect for Grandfather Frog , who , as you know , is very old and very wise , but now Peter felt almost afraid of him .
You see , it seemed to Peter as if Grandfather Frog had read his very thoughts .
`` I -- I did n't know you were waiting .
Truly I did n't , '' stammered Peter .
`` If I had , I would have been here long ago .
If you please , how did you know that I was coming and what I was coming for ? ''
`` Never mind how I knew .
I know a great deal that I do n't tell , which is more than some folks can say , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
Peter wondered if he meant him , for you know Peter is a great gossip .
But he did n't say anything , because he did n't know just what to say , and in a minute Grandfather Frog began the story Peter so much wanted .
`` Of course you know , without me telling you , that there is a reason for Spotty 's carrying his house around with him , because there is a reason for everything in this world .
And of course you know that that reason is because of something that happened a long time ago , way back in the days when the world was young .
Almost everything to-day is the result of things that happened in those long-ago days .
The great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Spotty the Turtle lived then , and unlike Spotty , whom you know , he had no house .
He was very quiet and bashful , was Mr. Turtle , and he never meddled with any one 's business , because he believed that the best way of keeping out of trouble was to attend strictly to his own affairs .
`` He was a good deal like Spotty , just as fond of the water and just as slow moving , but he did n't have the house which Spotty has now .
If he had had , he would have been saved a great deal of trouble and worry .
For a long time everybody lived at peace with everybody else .
Then came the trying time , of which you already know , when those who lived on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest had the very hardest kind of work to find enough to eat , and were hungry most of the time .
Now Mr. Turtle , living in the Smiling Pool , had plenty to eat .
He had nothing to worry about on that score .
Everybody who lives in the Smiling Pool knows that it is the best place in the world , anyway . ''
Grandfather Frog winked at Jerry Muskrat , who was listening , and Jerry nodded his head .
`` But presently Mr. Turtle discovered that the big people were eating the little people whenever they could catch them , and that he was n't safe a minute when on shore , and not always safe in the water , '' continued Grandfather Frog .
`` He had two or three very narrow escapes , and these set him to thinking .
He was too slow and awkward to run or to fight .
The only thing he could do was to keep out of sight as much as possible .
So he learned to swim with only his head out of water , and sometimes with only the end of his nose out of water .
When he went on land , he would cover himself with mud , and then when he heard anybody coming , he would lie perfectly still , with his legs and his tail and his head drawn in just as close as possible , so that he looked for all the world like just a little lump of brown earth .
`` One day he had crawled under a piece of bark to rest and at the same time keep out of sight of any who might happen along .
When he got ready to go on his way , he found that the piece of bark had caught on his back , and that he was carrying it with him .
At first he was annoyed and started to shake it off .
Before he succeeded , he heard someone coming , so he promptly drew in his head and legs and tail .
It was Mr. Fisher , and he was very hungry and fierce .
He looked at the piece of bark under which Mr. Turtle was hiding , but all he saw was the bark , because , you know , Mr. Turtle had drawn himself wholly under . '' '
I believe , ' said Mr. Fisher , talking out loud to himself , ` that I 'll have a look around the Smiling Pool and see if I can catch that slow-moving Turtle who lives there .
I believe he 'll make me a good dinner . '
`` Of course Mr. Turtle heard just what he said , and he blessed the piece of bark which had hidden him from Mr. Fisher 's sight .
For a long time he lay very still .
When he did go on , he took the greatest care not to shake off that piece of bark , for he did n't know but that any minute he might want to hide under it again .
At last he reached the Smiling Pool and slipped into the water , leaving the piece of bark on the bank .
Thereafter , when he wanted to go on land , he would first make sure that no one was watching .
Then he would crawl under the piece of bark and get it on his back .
Wherever he went he carried the piece of bark so as to have it handy to hide under .
`` Now all this time Old Mother Nature had been watching Mr. Turtle , and it pleased her to see that he was smart enough to think of such a clever way of fooling his enemies .
So she began to study how she could help Mr. Turtle .
One day she came up behind him just as he sat down to rest .
The piece of bark was uncomfortable and scratched his back , ' I wish , ' said he , talking to himself , for he did n't know that any one else was near , ' I wish that I had a house of my own that I could carry on my back all the time and be perfectly safe when I was inside of it . ' ''
` You shall have , ' said Old Mother Nature , and reaching out , she touched his back and turned the skin into hard shell .
Then she touched the skin of his stomach and turned that into hard shell .
` Now draw in your head and your legs and your tail , ' said she .
`` Mr. Turtle did as he was told to do , and there he was in the very best and safest kind of a house , perfectly hidden from all his enemies ! ''
` Oh , Mother Nature , how can I ever thank you ? '
he cried . ''
` By doing as you always have done , attending wholly to your own affairs , ' replied Old Mother Nature .
`` So ever since that long-ago day when the world was young , all Turtles have carried their houses with them and never have meddled in things that do n't concern them , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
`` Oh , thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' exclaimed Peter , drawing a long breath .
`` That was a perfectly splendid thing for Old Mother Nature to do . ''
Then he started for his own home in the dear Old Briar-patch , and all the way there he wondered and wondered how Grandfather Frog knew that he wanted that story , and to this day he has n't found out .
You see , he did n't notice that Grandfather Frog was listening when he asked Spotty about his house .
Of course , Grandfather Frog knows Peter and his curiosity so well that he had guessed right away that Peter would come to him for the story , just as Peter did .
XVI WHY PADDY THE BEAVER HAS A BROAD TAIL Usually the thing that interests us most is something that we have n't got ourselves .
It is that way with Peter Rabbit .
Peter is not naturally envious .
Oh , my , no !
Peter is pretty well satisfied with what he has , which is quite as it should be .
There is only one thing with which Peter is really dissatisfied , and it is only once in a while , when he has n't much of anything else to think about , that he is dissatisfied with this .
Can you guess what it is ?
Well , it is his tail .
Yes , Sir , that is the one thing that ever really troubles Peter .
You see , Peter 's tail is , nothing but a funny little bunch of cotton , which does n't look like a tail at all .
The only time he ever sees it is when he is back to the Smiling Pool and looks over his shoulder at his reflection in the water , and then , of course , he really does n't see his tail itself .
So sometimes when Peter sees the fine tails of his neighbors , a little bit of envy creeps into his heart for just a little while .
Why , even little Danny Meadow Mouse has a real tail , short as it is .
And as for Happy Jack Squirrel and Reddy Fox and Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk , everybody knows what beautiful tails they have .
Once Peter thought about it so much that Grandfather Frog noticed how sober he was and asked Peter what the trouble was .
When Peter told him that it seemed to him that Old Mother Nature had not been fair in giving him such a foolish little tail when she had given others such beautiful ones , Grandfather Frog just opened his big mouth and laughed until he had to hold his sides .
`` Why , Peter , '' said he , `` you look so sober , that I thought you really had something to worry about .
What would you do with a big tail , if you had one ?
It would always be in your way .
Just think how many times Reddy Fox or old Granny Fox have almost caught you .
They certainly would have before this , if you had had a long tail sticking out behind for them to get hold of .
I had a long tail when I was young , and I was mighty glad to get rid of it . ''
After he heard that , Peter felt better .
But he did n't lose interest in tails , and he spent a great deal of time in wondering why some of his neighbors had big , bushy tails and some had long , slim tails and why he himself had almost no tail at all .
So when Paddy the Beaver came to live in the Green Forest , and made a pond there by building a wonderful dam across the Laughing Brook , the first thing Peter looked to see was what kind of a tail Paddy has , and the first time he got a good look at it , his eyes popped almost out of his head .
He just stared and stared .
He hardly noticed the wonderful dam or the equally wonderful canals which Paddy had made .
All he could think of was that great , broad , flat , thick tail , which is so unlike any tail he had ever seen or heard of .
The very next morning he hurried over to the Smiling Pool to tell Grandfather Frog about it .
Grandfather Frog 's big , goggly eyes twinkled .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he .
`` Paddy the Beaver has one of the most useful tails I know of .
Would you like to know how he comes by such a queer tail ? ''
-LSB- Illustration : The first thing Peter looked to see was what kind of a tail Paddy has . -RSB-
`` Oh , if you please !
If you please , Grandfather Frog !
I did n't suppose there was such a queer tail in all the world , and I do n't see what possible use it can be .
Do tell me about it ! ''
cried Peter .
`` Chug-a-rum !
If you had used your eyes when you visited Paddy , you might have guessed for yourself how he came by it , '' replied Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Some people never do learn to use their eyes . ''
Peter looked a bit sheepish , but he said nothing and waited patiently .
Presently Grandfather Frog cleared his throat two or three times and began to talk .
`` Once upon a time , long , long ago , when the world was young -- '' `` It seems to me that everything wonderful happened long ago when the world was young , '' interrupted Peter .
Grandfather Frog looked at Peter severely , and Peter hastened to beg his pardon .
After a long time Grandfather Frog began again .
`` Once on a time , long , long ago , lived Mr. Beaver , the great-great-ever-so-great grandfather of Paddy up there in the Green Forest .
Old Mr. Beaver was one of the hardest working of all of Old Mother Nature 's big family and one of the smartest , just as Paddy is to-day .
He always seemed happiest when he was busiest , and because he liked to be happy all the time , he tried to keep busy all the time .
`` He was very thrifty , was Mr. Beaver ; not at all like some people I know .
He believed in preparing to-day for what might happen to-morrow , and so when he had all the food he needed for the present , he stored away food for the time when it might not be so easy to get .
And he believed in helping himself , did Mr. Beaver , and not in leaving everything to Old Mother Nature , as did most of his neighbors .
That is how he first came to think of making a dam and a pond .
Like his small cousin , Mr. Muskrat , he was very fond of the water , and felt most at home and safest there .
But he found that sometimes the food which he liked best , which was the bark of certain kinds of trees , grew some distance from the water , and it was the hardest kind of hard work to roll and drag the logs down to the water , where he could eat the bark from them in safety .
`` He thought about this a great deal , but instead of going to Old Mother Nature and complaining , as most of his neighbors would have done in his place , he studied and studied to find some way to make the work easier .
One day he noticed that a lot of sticks had caught in the stream where he made his home , and that because the water could not work its way between them as fast as where nothing hindered it , it made a little pool just above the sticks .
That made him think harder than ever .
He brought some of the logs and sticks from which he had gnawed the bark and fastened them with the others , and right away the pool grew bigger .
The more sticks he added , the bigger the pool grew .
Mr. Beaver had discovered what a dam is for and how to build it . ''
` Why , ' thought he , ` if I make a pond at the place nearest to my food trees , I can carry the water to the trees instead of the trees to the water ; and that will be easier and ever so much safer as well . '
`` So Mr. Beaver built a dam at just the right place , while all the other little people laughed at him and made fun of him for working so hard .
Just as he had thought it would do , the dam made a pond , and the pond grew bigger and bigger , until it reached the very place where his food trees grew .
Mr. Beaver built him a big , comfortable house out in the pond , and then he went to work as hard as ever he could to cut down trees and then cut them up into the right sized pieces to store away in his big food pile for the winter .
`` Now cutting down trees is hard work .
Yes , Siree , cutting down trees is the hardest kind of hard work .
Mr. Beaver had to sit up on his hind legs to do it , and his legs grew very , very tired .
In those days he had a tail very much like the tail of Jerry Muskrat .
It was very useful when he was swimming , but it was of no use at all at any other time .
Sometimes he tried to brace himself with it -- when he was sitting up to cut trees , and found it of no help .
But he did n't complain ; he just kept right on working , and only stopped to rest when his legs ached so that he had to .
`` He was working just as usual one day when Old Mother Nature came along to see how he was getting on .
She saw the new dam and the new pond , and she asked Mr. Beaver who had made them .
He told her that he had and explained why .
Old Mother Nature was greatly pleased , but she did n't say so .
She just passed the time of day with him and then sat down to watch him cut a tree .
She saw him try to brace himself with his useless tail , and she saw him stop to rest his tired legs . ''
` That looks to me like pretty hard work , ' said Old Mother Nature . ''
` So it is , ' replied Mr. Beaver , stretching first one leg and then another .
` But things worth having are worth working for , ' and with that he began cutting again . ''
` You ought to have something to sit on , ' said Old Mother Nature , her eyes twinkling .
`` Mr. Beaver grinned .
` It would be very nice , ' he confessed , ` but I never waste time wishing for things I have n't got and ca n't get , ' and went right on cutting .
`` The next morning when he awoke , he had the greatest surprise of his life .
He had a new tail !
It was broad and thick and flat .
It was n't like any tail he had ever seen or heard of .
At first he did n't know how to manage it , but when he tried to swim , he found that it was even better than his old tail for swimming .
He hurried over to begin his day 's work , and there he made another discovery ; his new tail was just the most splendid brace !
It was almost like a stool to sit on , and he could work all day long without tiring his legs .
Then was Mr. Beaver very happy , and to show how happy he was , he worked harder than ever .
Later , he found that his new tail was just what he needed to pat down the mud with which he covered the roof of his house . ''
` Why , ' he cried , ' I believe it is the most useful tail in all the world ! '
`` And then he wished with all his might that Old Mother Nature would return so that he might thank her for it .
And that , '' concluded Grandfather Frog , `` is how Mr. Beaver came by his broad tail .
You see , Old Mother Nature always helps those who help themselves .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind's_Animal_Friends.txt.out
I THE MERRY LITTLE BREEZES SAVE THE GREEN MEADOWS Old Mother West Wind 's family is very big , very big indeed .
There are dozens and dozens of Merry Little Breezes , all children of Old Mother West Wind .
Every morning she comes down from the Purple Hills and tumbles them out of a great bag on to the Green Meadows .
Every night she gathers them into the great bag and , putting it over her shoulder , takes them to their home behind the Purple Hills .
One morning , just as usual , Old Mother West Wind turned the Merry Little Breezes out to play on the Green Meadows .
Then she hurried away to fill the sails of the ships and blow them across the great ocean .
The Merry Little Breezes hopped and skipped over the Green Meadows looking for some one to play with .
It was then that one of them discovered something -- something very dreadful .
It was a fire !
Yes , Sir , it was a fire in the meadow grass !
Some one had dropped a lighted match , and now little red flames were running through the grass in all directions .
The Merry Little Breeze hastened to tell all the other Little Breezes and all rushed over as fast as they could to see for themselves .
They saw how the little red flames were turning to smoke and ashes everything they touched , and how black and ugly , with nothing alive there , became that part of the Green Meadows where the little flames ran .
It was dreadful !
Then one of them noticed that the little red flames were running in the direction of Johnny Chuck 's new house .
Would the little red flames burn up Johnny Chuck , as they burned up the grass and the flowers ?
`` Hi ! ''
cried the Merry Little Breeze , `` We must warn Johnny Chuck and all the other little meadow people ! ''
So he caught up a capful of smoke and raced off as fast as he could go to Johnny Chuck 's house .
Then each of the Merry Little Breezes caught up a capful of smoke and started to warn one of the little meadow people or forest folks .
So pretty soon jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , looking down from the blue sky , saw Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Peter Rabbit , Striped Chipmunk , Danny Meadow Mouse , Reddy Fox , Bobby Coon , Happy Jack Squirrel , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Jumper the Hare and old Mr. Toad all hurrying as fast as they could to the Smiling Pool where live Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat and Spotty the Turtle and Grandfather Frog .
There they would be quite safe from the little red flames .
`` Oh , '' gasped Johnny Chuck , puffing very hard , for you know he is round and fat and roly-poly and it was hard work for him to run , `` what will become of my nice new house and what will there be left to eat ? ''
The Merry Little Breeze who had brought him the warning in a capful of smoke thought for a minute .
Then he called all the other Little Breezes to him .
`` We must get Farmer Brown 's help or we will have no beautiful Green Meadows to play on , '' said the Merry Little Breeze .
So together they rushed back to where the little red flames had grown into great , angry , red flames that were licking up everything in their way .
The Merry Little Breezes gathered a great cloud of smoke and , lifting all together , they carried it over and dropped it in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Then one of them blew a little of the smoke in at an open window , near which Farmer Brown was eating breakfast .
Farmer Brown coughed and strangled and sprang from his chair .
`` Phew ! ''
cried Farmer Brown , `` I smell smoke !
There must be a fire on the meadows . ''
Then he shouted for his boy and for his hired man and the three , with shovels in their hands , started for the Green Meadows to try to put the fire out .
The Merry Little Breezes sighed with relief and followed to the fire .
But when they saw how fierce and angry the red flames had become they knew that Farmer Brown and his boy and his hired man would not be able to put the fire out .
Choking with smoke , they hurried over to tell the dreadful news to the little meadow people and forest folks gathered at the Smiling Pool .
`` Chug-a-rum !
Why do n't you help put the fire out ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
`` We warned Farmer Brown and his boy and his hired man ; what more can we do ? ''
asked one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Go find and drive up a rain cloud , '' replied Grandfather Frog .
`` Splendid ! ''
cried all the little meadow people and forest folks .
`` Hurry !
hurry !
Oh , do hurry ! ''
So the Merry Little Breezes scattered in all directions to hunt for a rain cloud .
`` It is a good thing that Old Mother West Wind has such a big family , '' said Grandfather Frog , `` for one of them is sure to find a wandering rain cloud somewhere . ''
Then all the little meadow people and forest folks sat down around the Smiling Pool to wait .
They watched the smoke roll up until it hid the face of jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
Their hearts almost stood still with fear as they saw the fierce , angry , red flames leap into the air and climb tall trees on the edge of the Green Forest .
Splash !
Something struck in the Smiling Pool right beside Grandfather Frog 's big , green , lily-pad .
Spat !
Something hit Johnny Chuck right on the end of his funny little , black nose .
They were drops of water .
`` Hurrah ! ''
cried Johnny Chuck , whirling about .
Sure enough , they were drops of water -- rain drops .
And there , coming just as fast as the Merry Little Breezes could push it , and they were pushing very hard , very hard indeed , was a great , black , rain cloud , spilling down rain as it came .
When it was just over the fire , the great , black , rain cloud split wide open , and the water poured down so that the fierce , angry , red flames were drowned in a few minutes .
`` Phew ! ''
said Farmer Brown , mopping his face with his handkerchief , `` that was warm work !
That shower came up just in time and it is lucky it did . ''
But you know and I know and all the little meadow people and forest folks know that it was n't luck at all , but the quick work and hard work of Old Mother West Wind 's big family of Merry Little Breezes , which saved the Green Meadows .
And this , too , is one reason why Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck and Bobby Coon and all the other little meadow and forest people love the Merry Little Breezes who play every day on the Green Meadows .
II THE STRANGER IN THE GREEN FOREST Old Mother West Wind , hurrying down from the Purple Hills with her Merry Little Breezes , discovered the newcomer in the Green Forest on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes saw him , too , and as soon as Old Mother West Wind had turned them loose on the Green Meadows they started out to spread the news .
As they hurried along the Crooked Little Path up the hill , they met Reddy Fox .
`` Oh , Reddy Fox , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , so excited that all talked together , `` there 's a stranger in the Green Forest ! ''
Reddy Fox sat down and grinned at the Merry Little Breezes .
The grin of Reddy Fox is not pleasant .
It irritates and exasperates .
It made the Merry Little Breezes feel very uncomfortable .
`` You do n't say so , '' drawled Reddy Fox .
`` Do you mean to say that you 've just discovered him ?
Why , your news is so old that it is stale ; it is no news at all .
I thought you had something really new to tell me . ''
The Merry Little Breezes were disappointed .
Their faces fell .
They had thought it would be such fun to carry the news through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows , and now the very first one they met knew all about it .
`` Who is he , Reddy Fox ? ''
asked one of the Merry Little Breezes .
Reddy Fox pretended not to hear .
`` I must be going , '' said he , rising and stretching .
`` I have an engagement with Billy Mink down at the Smiling Pool . ''
Reddy Fox started down the Crooked Little Path while the Merry Little Breezes hurried up the Crooked Little Path to tell the news to Jimmy Skunk , who was looking for beetles for his breakfast .
Now Reddy Fox had not told the truth .
He had known nothing whatever of the stranger in the Green Forest .
In fact he had been as surprised as the Merry Little Breezes could have wished , but he would not show it .
And he had told another untruth , for he had no intention of going down to the Smiling Pool .
No , indeed !
He just waited until the Merry Little Breezes were out of sight , then he slipped into the Green Forest to look for the stranger seen by the Merry Little Breezes .
Now Reddy Fox does nothing openly .
Instead of walking through the Green Forest like a gentleman , he sneaked along under the bushes and crept from tree to tree , all the time looking for the stranger of whom the Merry Little Breezes had told him .
All around through the Green Forest sneaked Reddy Fox , but nothing of the stranger could he see .
It did n't occur to him to look anywhere but on the ground .
`` I do n't believe there is a stranger here , '' said Reddy to himself .
Just then he noticed some scraps of bark around the foot of a tall maple .
Looking up to see where it came from he saw -- what do you think ?
Why , the stranger who had come to the Green Forest .
Reddy Fox dodged back out of sight , for he wanted to find out all he could about the stranger before the stranger saw him .
Reddy sat down behind a big stump and rubbed his eyes .
He could hardly believe what he saw .
There at the top of the tall maple , stripping the branches of their bark and eating it , was the stranger , sure enough .
He was big , much bigger than Reddy .
Could he be a relative of Happy Jack Squirrel ?
He did n't look a bit , not the least little bit like Happy Jack .
And he moved slowly , very slowly , indeed , while Happy Jack and his cousins move quickly .
Reddy decided that the stranger could not be related to Happy Jack .
The longer Reddy looked the more he was puzzled .
Also , Reddy began to feel just a little bit jealous .
You see all the little meadow people and forest folks are afraid of Reddy Fox , but this stranger was so big that Reddy began to feel something very like fear in his own heart .
The Merry Little Breezes had told the news to Jimmy Skunk and then hurried over the Green Meadows telling every one they met of the stranger in the Green Forest -- Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , Happy Jack Squirrel , Danny Meadow Mouse , Striped Chipmunk , old Mr. Toad , Grandfather Frog , Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , and each as soon as he heard the news started for the Green Forest to welcome the newcomer .
Even Grandfather Frog left his beloved big , green lily-pad and started for the Green Forest .
So it was that when finally the stranger decided that he had eaten enough bark for his breakfast , and climbed slowly down the tall maple , he found all the little meadow people and forest folks sitting in a big circle waiting for him .
The stranger was anything but handsome , but his size filled them with respect .
The nearer he got to the ground the bigger he looked .
Down he came , and Reddy Fox , noting how slow and clumsy in his movements was the stranger , decided that there was nothing to fear .
If the stranger was slow and clumsy in the tree , he was clumsier still on the ground .
His eyes were small and dull .
His coat was rough , long and almost black .
His legs were short and stout .
His tail was rather short and broad .
Altogether he was anything but handsome .
But when the little meadow people and forest folks saw his huge front teeth they regarded him with greater respect than ever , all but Reddy Fox .
Reddy strutted out in front of him .
`` Who are you ? ''
he demanded .
-LSB- Illustration : Reddy strutted out in front of him .
`` Who are you ? ''
he demanded . -RSB-
The stranger paid no attention to Reddy Fox .
`` What business have you in our Green Forest ? ''
demanded Reddy , showing all his teeth .
The stranger just grunted and appeared not to see Reddy Fox .
Reddy swelled himself out until every hair stood on end and he looked twice as big as he really is .
He strutted back and forth in front of the stranger .
`` Do n't you know that I 'm afraid of nothing and nobody ? ''
snarled Reddy Fox .
The stranger refused to give him so much as a glance .
He just grunted and kept right on about his business .
All the little meadow people and forest folks began to giggle and then to laugh .
Reddy knew that they were laughing at him and he grew very angry , for no one likes to be laughed at , least of all Reddy Fox .
`` You 're a pig ! ''
taunted Reddy .
`` You 're afraid to fight .
I bet you 're afraid of Danny Meadow Mouse ! ''
Still the stranger just grunted and paid no further attention to Reddy Fox .
Now , with all his boasting Reddy Fox had kept at a safe distance from the stranger .
Happy Jack Squirrel had noticed this .
`` If you 're so brave , why do n't you drive him out , Reddy Fox ? ''
asked Happy Jack , skipping behind a tree .
`` You do n't dare to ! ''
Reddy turned and glared at Happy Jack .
`` I 'm not afraid ! ''
he shouted .
`` I 'm not afraid of anything nor anybody ! ''
But though he spoke so bravely it was noticed that he went no nearer the stranger .
Now it happened that that morning Bowser the Hound took it into his head to take a walk in the Green Forest .
Blacky the Crow , sitting on the tip-top of a big pine , was the first to see him coming .
From pure love of mischief Blacky waited until Bowser was close to the circle around the stranger .
Then he gave the alarm .
`` Here 's Bowser the Hound !
Run ! ''
screamed Blacky the Crow .
Then he laughed so that he had to hold his sides to see the fright down below .
Reddy Fox forgot that he was afraid of nothing and nobody .
He was the first one out of sight , running so fast that his feet seemed hardly to touch the ground .
Peter Rabbit turned a back somersault and suddenly remembered that he had important business down on the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck dodged into a convenient hole .
Billy Mink ran into a hollow tree .
Striped Chipmunk hid in an old stump .
Happy Jack Squirrel climbed the nearest tree .
In a twinkling the stranger was alone , facing Bowser the Hound .
Bowser stopped and looked at the stranger in sheer surprise .
Then the hair on the back of his neck stood on end and he growled a deep , ugly growl .
Still the stranger did not run .
Bowser did n't know just what to make of it .
Never before had he had such an experience .
Could it be that the stranger was not afraid of him ?
Bowser walked around the stranger , growling fiercely .
As he walked the stranger turned , so as always to face him .
It was perplexing and very provoking .
It really seemed as if the stranger had no fear of him .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
cried Bowser the Hound in his deepest voice , and sprang at the stranger .
Then something happened , so surprising that Blacky the Crow lost his balance on the top of the pine where he was watching .
The instant that Bowser sprang , the stranger rolled himself into a tight round ball and out of the long hair of his coat sprang hundreds of sharp little yellowish white barbed spears .
The stranger looked for all the world like a huge black and yellow chestnut burr .
Bowser the Hound was as surprised as Blacky the Crow .
He stopped short and his eyes looked as if they would pop out of his head .
He looked so puzzled and so funny that Happy Jack Squirrel laughed aloud .
The stranger did not move .
Bowser backed away and began to circle around again , sniffing and snuffing .
Once in a while he barked .
Still the stranger did not move .
For all the sign of life he made he might in truth have been a giant chestnut burr .
Bowser sat down and looked at him .
Then he walked around to the other side and sat down .
`` What a queer thing , '' thought Bowser .
`` What a very queer thing . ''
Bowser took a step nearer .
Then he took another step .
Nothing happened .
Finally Bowser reached out , and with his nose gingerly touched the prickly ball .
Slap !
The stranger 's tail had struck Bowser full in the face .
Bowser yelled with pain and rolled over and over on the ground .
Sticking in his tender lips were a dozen sharp little spears , and claw and rub at them as he would , Bowser could not get them out .
Every time he touched them he yelped with pain .
Finally he gave it up and started for home with his tail between his legs like a whipped puppy , and with every step he yelped .
When he had disappeared and his yelps had died away in the distance , the stranger unrolled , the sharp little spears disappeared in the long hair of his coat and , just as if nothing at all had happened , the stranger walked slowly over to a tall maple and began to climb it .
And this is how Prickly Porky the Porcupine came to the Green Forest , and won the respect and admiration of all the little meadow people and forest folks , including Reddy Fox .
Since that day no one has tried to meddle with Prickly Porky or his business .
III HOW PRICKLY PORKY GOT HIS QUILLS The newcomer in the Green Forest was a source of great interest to the Merry Little Breezes .
Ever since they had seen him turn himself into a huge prickly ball , like a giant chestnut burr , and with a slap of his tail send Bowser the Hound yelping home with his lips stuck full of little barbed spears , they had visited the Green Forest every day to watch Prickly Porky .
He was not very social .
Indeed , he was not social at all , but attended strictly to his own business , which consisted chiefly of stripping bark from the trees and eating it .
Never had the Merry Little Breezes seen such an appetite !
Already that part of the Green Forest where he had chosen to live had many bare stark trees , killed that Prickly Porky the Porcupine might live .
You see a tree can not live without bark , and Prickly Porky had stripped them clean to fill his stomach .
But if Prickly Porky was not social he was not unfriendly .
He seemed to enjoy having the Merry Little Breezes about , and did not in the least mind having them rumple up the long hair of his coat to feel the sharp little barbed spears underneath .
Some of these were so loose that they dropped out .
Peter Rabbit 's curiosity led him to examine some of these among bits of bark at the foot of a tree .
Peter wished that he had left them alone .
One of the sharp little barbs pierced his tender skin and Peter could not get it out .
He had to ask Johnny Chuck to do it for him , and it had hurt dreadfully .
After that the little meadow people and forest folks held Prickly Porky in greater respect than ever and left him severely alone , which was just what he seemed to want .
One morning the Merry Little Breezes failed to find Prickly Porky in the Green Forest .
Could he have left as mysteriously as he had come ?
They hurried down to the Smiling Pool to tell Grandfather Frog .
Bursting through the bulrushes on the edge of the Smiling Pool , they nearly upset Jerry Muskrat , who was sitting on an old log intently watching something out in the middle of the Smiling Pool .
It was Prickly Porky .
Some of the sharp little barbed spears were standing on end ; altogether he was the queerest sight the Smiling Pool had seen for a long time .
He was swimming easily and you may be sure no one tried to bother him .
Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink sat on the Big Rock and for once they had forgotten to play tricks .
When Prickly Porky headed towards the Big Rock , Little Joe Otter suddenly remembered that he had business down the Laughing Brook , and Billy Mink recalled that Mother Mink had forbidden him to play at the Smiling Pool .
Prickly Porky had the Smiling Pool quite to himself .
When he had swum to his heart 's content he climbed out , shook himself and slowly ambled up the Lone Little Path to the Green Forest .
The Merry Little Breezes watched him out of sight .
Then they danced over to the big green lily-pad on which sat Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes are great favorites with Grandfather Frog .
As usual they brought him some foolish green flies .
Grandfather Frog 's eyes twinkled as he snapped up the last foolish green fly .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , `` and now I suppose you want a story . ''
And he folded his hands across his white and yellow waistcoat .
`` If you please ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
`` If you please , do tell us how it is that Prickly Porky has spears on his back ! ''
Grandfather settled himself comfortably .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said he .
`` Once upon a time when the world was young , Mr. Porcupine , the grandfather a thousand times removed of Prickly Porky , whom you all know , lived in the Green Forest where old King Bear ruled .
Mr. Porcupine was a slow clumsy fellow , just as his grandson a thousand times removed is to-day .
He was so slow moving , and when he tried to hurry tumbled over himself so much , that he had hard work to get enough to eat .
Always some one reached the berry patch before he did .
The beetles and the bugs were so spry that seldom could he catch them .
Hunger was in his stomach , and little else most of the time .
Mr. Porcupine grew thin and thinner and still more thin .
His long , shaggy coat looked twice too big for him .
Because he was so hungry he could sleep little , and night as well as day he roamed the forest , thinking of nothing but his empty stomach , and looking for something to put in it .
So he learned to see by night as well as by day .
`` One day he could not find a single berry and not a beetle or a bug could he catch .
He was so hungry that he sat down with his back against a big black birch , and clasping both hands over his lean stomach , he wept .
There Sister South Wind found him , and her heart was moved to pity , for she knew that his wits were as slow as his body .
Softly she stole up behind him . ''
` Try the bark of the black birch ; it 's sweet and good , ' whispered Sister South Wind .
Then she hurried on her way .
`` Mr. Porcupine still sat with his hands clasped over his lean stomach , for it took a long time for his slow wit to understand what Sister South Wind meant .
` Bark , bark , try bark , ' said Mr. Porcupine over and over to himself .
He rolled his dull little eyes up at the big black birch . '
I believe I will try it , ' said Mr. Porcupine at last .
`` Slowly he turned and began to gnaw the bark of the big black birch .
It was tough , but it tasted good .
Clumsily he began to climb , tearing off a mouthful of bark here and there as he climbed .
The higher he got the tenderer and sweeter the bark became .
Finally he reached the top of the tree , and there on the small branches the bark was so tender and so sweet that he ate and ate and ate until for the first time in many days Mr. Porcupine had a full stomach .
That night he curled up in a hollow log and slept all the night through , dreaming of great forests of black birch and all he wanted to eat .
`` The next day he hunted for and found another black birch , and climbing to the top , he ate and ate until his stomach was full .
From that time on Mr. Porcupine ceased to hunt for berries or beetles or bugs .
He grew stout and stouter .
He filled his shaggy coat until it was so tight it threatened to burst .
`` Now while Mr. Porcupine was so thin and lean he had no enemies , but when he grew stout and then fat , Mr. Panther and Mr. Fisher and Mr. Bobcat and even old King Bear began to cast longing eyes upon him , for times were hard and they were hungry .
Mr. Porcupine began to grow afraid .
By night he hid in hollow trees and by day he went abroad to eat only when he was sure that no one bigger than himself was about .
And because he no longer dared to move about as before , he no longer depended upon the black birch alone , but learned to eat and to like all kinds of bark .
`` One day he had made his breakfast on the bark of a honey-locust .
When he came down the tree he brought with him a strip of bark , and attached to it were some of the long thorns with which the honey-locust seeks to protect itself .
When he reached the ground whom should he find waiting for him but Mr. Panther .
Mr. Panther was very lean and very hungry , for hunting had been poor and the times were hard . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Porcupine , ' said Mr. Panther , with a wicked grin .
` How fat you are ! ' ''
` Good morning , Mr. Panther , ' said Mr. Porcupine politely , but his long hair stood on end with fright , as he looked into Mr. Panther 's cruel yellow eyes . '' '
I say , how fat you are , ' said Mr. Panther , licking his chops and showing all his long teeth .
` What do you find to eat these hard times ? ' ''
` Bark , Mr. Panther , just bark , ' said Mr. Porcupine , while his teeth chattered with fear .
` It really is very nice and sweet .
Wo n't you try a piece , Mr. Panther ? '
Mr. Porcupine held out the strip of locust bark which he had brought down the tree for his lunch .
`` Now Mr. Panther had never tried bark , but he thought to himself that if it made Mr. Porcupine so fat it must be good .
He would try the piece of bark first and eat Mr. Porcupine afterward .
So he reached out and snapped up the strip of bark .
`` Now the locust thorns were long and they were sharp .
They pierced Mr. Panther 's tender lips and his tongue .
They stuck in the roof of his mouth .
Mr. Panther spat and yelled with pain and rage and clawed frantically at his mouth .
He rolled over and over trying to get rid of the thorns .
Mr. Porcupine did n't stay to watch him .
For once in his life he hurried .
By the time Mr. Panther was rid of the last thorn , Mr. Porcupine was nowhere to be seen .
He was safely hidden inside a hollow log .
`` Mr. Porcupine did n't sleep that night .
He just lay and thought and thought and thought .
The next morning , very early , before any one else was astir , he started out to call on old Mother Nature . ''
` Good morning , Mr. Porcupine , what brings you out so early ? '
asked old Mother Nature .
`` Mr. Porcupine bowed very low .
` If you please , Mother Nature , I want you to help me , ' said he .
`` Then he told her all about his meeting with Mr. Panther and how helpless he was when he met his enemies , and he begged her to give him stout claws and a big mouth full of long teeth that he might protect himself .
`` Old Mother Nature thought a few minutes .
` Mr. Porcupine , ' said she , ` you have always minded your own business .
You do not know how to fight .
If I should give you a big mouth full of long teeth you would not know how to use them .
You move too slowly .
Instead , I will give you a thousand little spurs .
They shall be hidden in the long hair of your coat and only when you are in danger shall you use them .
Go back to the Green Forest , and the next time you meet Mr. Panther or Mr. Fisher or Mr. Bobcat or old King Bear roll yourself into a ball and the thousand little spears will protect you .
Now go ! '
`` Mr. Porcupine thanked old Mother Nature and started back for the Green Forest .
Once he stopped to smooth down his long , rough coat .
Sure enough , there , under the long hair , he felt a thousand little spears .
He went along happily until suddenly he met Mr. Panther .
Yes , Sir , he met Mr. Panther .
`` Mr. Panther was feeling very ugly , for his mouth was sore .
He grinned wickedly when he saw Mr. Porcupine and stepped right out in front of him , all the time licking his lips .
Mr. Porcupine trembled all over , but he remembered what old Mother Nature had told him .
In a flash he had rolled up into a tight ball .
Sure enough , the thousand little spears sprang out of his long coat , and he looked like a huge chestnut burr .
`` Mr. Panther was so surprised he did n't know just what to do .
He reached out a paw and touched Mr. Porcupine .
Mr. Porcupine was nervous .
He switched his tail around and it struck Mr. Panther 's paw .
Mr. Panther yelled , for there were spears on Mr. Porcupine 's tail and they were worse than the locust thorns .
He backed away hurriedly and limped off up the Lone Little Path , growling horribly .
Mr. Porcupine waited until Mr. Panther was out of sight , then he unrolled , and slowly and happily he walked back to his home in the Green Forest .
`` And since that long-ago day when the world was young , the Porcupines have feared nothing and have attended strictly to their own business .
And that is how they happen to have a thousand little barbed spears , which are called quills , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes drew a long breath .
`` Thank you , Grandfather Frog , thank you ever so much ! ''
they cried all together .
`` We are going back now to tell Prickly Porky that we know all about his little spears and how he happens to have them . ''
But first they blew a dozen fat , foolish , green flies over to Grandfather Frog .
IV PETER RABBIT 'S EGG ROLLING It was spring .
Drummer the Woodpecker was beating the long roll on the hollow limb of the old hickory , that all the world might know .
Old Mother West Wind , hurrying down from the Purple Hills across the Green Meadows , stopped long enough to kiss the smiling little bluets that crowded along the Lone Little Path .
All up and down the Laughing Brook were shy violets turning joyful faces up to jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
Johnny Chuck was sitting on his doorstep , stretching one short leg and then another , to get the kinks out , after his long , long winter sleep .
Very beautiful , very beautiful indeed , were the Green Meadows , and very happy were all the little meadow people -- all but Peter Rabbit , who sat at the top of the Crooked Little Path that winds down the hill .
No , Sir , Peter Rabbit , happy-go-lucky Peter , who usually carries the lightest heart on the Green Meadows , was not happy .
Indeed , he was very unhappy .
As he sat there at the top of the Crooked Little Path and looked down on the Green Meadows , he saw nothing beautiful at all because , why , because his big soft eyes were full of tears .
Splash !
A big tear fell at his feet in the Crooked Little Path .
Splash !
That was another tear .
Splash !
splash !
`` My gracious !
My gracious !
What is the matter , Peter Rabbit ? ''
asked a gruff voice close to one of Peter 's long ears .
Peter jumped .
Then he winked the tears back and looked around .
There sat old Mr. Toad .
He looked very solemn , very solemn indeed .
He was wearing a shabby old suit , the very one he had slept in all winter .
Peter forgot his troubles long enough to wonder if old Mr. Toad would swallow his old clothes when he got a new suit .
`` What 's the matter , Peter Rabbit , what 's the matter ? ''
repeated old Mr. Toad .
Peter looked a little foolish .
He hesitated , coughed , looked this way and looked that way , hitched his trousers up , and then , why then he found his tongue and told old Mr. Toad all his troubles .
`` You see , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` it 's almost Easter and I have n't found a single egg . ''
`` An egg ! ''
exclaimed old Mr. Toad .
`` Bless my stars !
What do you want of an egg , Peter Rabbit ?
You do n't eat eggs . ''
`` I do n't want just one egg , oh , no , no indeed !
I want a lot of eggs , '' said Peter .
`` You see , Mr. Toad , I was going to have an Easter egg rolling , and here it is almost Easter and not an egg to be found ! ''
Peter 's eyes filled with tears again .
Old Mr. Toad rolled one eye up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and winked .
`` Have you seen Mrs. Grouse and Mrs. Pheasant ? ''
asked old Mr. Toad .
`` Yes , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` and they wo n't have any eggs until after Easter . ''
`` Have you been to see Mrs. Quack ? ''
asked old Mr. Toad .
`` Yes , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` and she says she ca n't spare a single one . ''
Old Mr. Toad looked very thoughtful .
He scratched the tip of his nose with his left hind foot .
Then he winked once more at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
`` Have you been to see Jimmy Skunk ? ''
he inquired .
Peter Rabbit 's big eyes opened very wide .
`` Jimmy Skunk ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Jimmy Skunk !
What does Jimmy Skunk have to do with eggs ? ''
Old Mr. Toad chuckled deep down in his throat .
He chuckled and chuckled until he shook all over .
`` Jimmy Skunk knows more about eggs than all the other little meadow people put together , '' said old Mr. Toad .
`` You take my advice , Peter Rabbit , and ask Jimmy Skunk to help you get the eggs for your Easter egg rolling . ''
Then old Mr. Toad picked up his cane and started down the Crooked Little Path to the Green Meadows .
There he found the Merry Little Breezes stealing kisses from the bashful little wind flowers .
Old Mr. Toad puffed out his throat and pretended that he disapproved , disapproved very much indeed , but at the same time he rolled one eye up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and winked .
`` Have n't you anything better to do than make bashful little flowers hang their heads ? ''
asked old Mr. Toad gruffly .
The Merry Little Breezes stopped their dancing and gathered about old Mr. Toad .
`` What 's the matter with you this morning , Mr. Toad ? ''
asked one of them .
`` Do you want us to go find a breakfast for you ? ''
`` No , '' replied old Mr. Toad sourly .
`` I am quite able to get breakfast for myself .
But Peter Rabbit is up on the hill crying because he can not find any eggs . ''
`` Crying because he can not find any eggs !
Now what does Peter Rabbit want of eggs ? ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes all together .
`` Supposing you go ask him , '' replied old Mr. Toad tartly , once more picking up his cane and starting for the Smiling Pool to call on his cousin , Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes stared after him for a few minutes , then they started in a mad race up the Crooked Little Path to find Peter Rabbit .
He was n't at the top of the Crooked Little Path .
They looked everywhere , but not so much as the tip of one of his long ears could they see .
Finally they met him just coming away from Jimmy Skunk 's house .
Peter was hopping , skipping , jumping up in the air and kicking his long heels as only Peter can .
There was no trace of tears in his big , soft eyes .
Plainly Peter Rabbit was in good spirits , in the very best of spirits .
When he saw the Merry Little Breezes he jumped twice as high as he had jumped before , then sat up very straight .
`` Hello ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello yourself , '' replied the Merry Little Breezes .
`` Tell us what under the sun you want of eggs , Peter Rabbit , and we 'll try to find some for you . ''
Peter 's eyes sparkled .
`` I 'm going to have an Easter egg rolling , '' said he , `` but you need n't look for any eggs , for I am going to have all I want ; Jimmy Skunk has promised to get them for me . ''
`` What is an Easter egg rolling ? ''
asked the Merry Little Breezes .
Peter looked very mysterious .
`` Wait and see , '' he replied .
Then a sudden thought popped into his head .
`` Will you do something for me ? ''
he asked .
Of course the Merry Little Breezes were delighted to do anything they could for Peter Rabbit , and told him so .
So in a few minutes Peter had them scattering in every direction with invitations to all the little people of the Green Meadows and all the little folks of the Green Forest to attend his egg rolling on Easter morning .
Very , very early on Easter morning Old Mother West Wind hurried down from the Purple Hills and swept all the rain clouds out of the sky .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun climbed up in the sky , smiling his broadest .
All the little song birds sang their sweetest , and some who really can not sing at all tried to just because they were so happy .
Across the beautiful Green Meadows came all the little meadow people and forest folks to the smooth , grassy bank where the big hickory grows .
Peter Rabbit was there waiting for them .
He had brushed his clothes until you would hardly have known him .
He felt very much excited and very important and very , very happy , for this was to be the very first egg rolling the Green Meadows had ever known , and it was all his very own .
Hidden behind the old hickory , tucked under pieces of bark , scattered among the bluets and wind flowers were big eggs , little eggs and middle-sized eggs , for Jimmy Skunk had been true to his promise .
Where they came from Jimmy would n't tell .
Perhaps if old Gray Goose and Mrs. Quack could have been there , they would have understood why it took so long to fill their nests .
Perhaps if Farmer Brown 's boy had happened along , he would have guessed why he had to hunt so long in the barn and under the henhouse to get enough eggs for breakfast .
But Jimmy Skunk held his tongue and just smiled to see how happy Peter Rabbit was .
First came Peter 's cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Then up from the Smiling Pool came Jerry Muskrat , Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , Grandfather Frog and Spotty the Turtle .
Johnny Chuck , Danny Meadow Mouse , and old Mr. Toad came together .
Of course Reddy Fox was on hand promptly .
Striped Chipmunk came dancing out from the home no one has been able to find .
Out from the Green Forest trotted Bobby Coon , Happy Jack Squirrel and Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
Behind them shuffled Prickly Porky .
Last of all came Jimmy Skunk , who never hurries , and Jimmy wore his very best suit of black and white .
Up in the old hickory sat Blacky the Crow , Sammy Jay and Drummer the Woodpecker , to watch the fun .
When all had arrived , Peter Rabbit started them to hunting for the eggs .
Everybody got in the way of everybody else .
Even old Mr. Toad caught the excitement and hopped this way and hopped that way hunting for eggs .
Danny Meadow Mouse found a goose egg bigger than himself and had to get help to bring it in .
Bobby Coon stubbed his toes and fell down with an egg under each arm .
Such a looking sight as he was !
He had to go down to the Smiling Pool to wash .
By and by , when all the eggs had been found , Peter Rabbit sent a big goose egg rolling down the grassy bank and then raced after it to bring it back and roll it down again .
In a few minutes the green grassy bank was covered with eggs -- big eggs , little eggs , all kinds of eggs .
Some were nearly round and rolled swiftly to the bottom .
Some were sharp pointed at one end and rolled crookedly and sometimes turned end over end .
A big egg knocked Johnny Chuck 's legs from under him and , because Johnny Chuck is round and roly-poly , he just rolled over and over after the egg clear to the bottom of the green grassy bank .
And it was such fun that he scrambled up and did it all over again .
Then Bobby Coon tried it .
Pretty soon every one was trying it , even Reddy Fox , who seldom forgets his dignity .
For once Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay almost wished that they had n't got wings , so that they might join in the fun .
But the greatest fun of all was when Prickly Porky decided that he , too , would join in the rolling .
He tucked his head down in his vest and made himself into a perfectly round ball .
Now when he did this , all his hidden spears stood out straight , until he looked like a great , giant , chestnut burr , and every one hurried to get out of his way .
Over and over , faster and faster , he rolled down the green , grassy bank until he landed -- where do you think ?
Why right in the midst of a lot of eggs that had been left when the other little people had scampered out of his way .
Now , having his head tucked into his vest , Prickly Porky could n't see where he was going , so when he reached the bottom and hopped to his feet he did n't know what to make of the shout that went up from all the little meadow people .
So foolish Prickly Porky lost his temper because he was being laughed at , and started off up the Lone Little Path to his home in the Green Forest .
And what do you think ?
Why , stuck fast in a row on the spears on his back , Prickly Porky carried off six of Peter Rabbit 's Easter eggs , and did n't know it .
V HOW JOHNNY CHUCK RAN AWAY Johnny Chuck stood on the doorstep of his house and watched old Mrs. Chuck start down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows towards Farmer Brown 's garden .
She had her market basket on her arm , and Johnny knew that when she returned it would be full of the things he liked best .
But not even the thought of these could chase away the frown that darkened Johnny Chuck 's face .
He had never been to Farmer Brown 's garden and he had begged very hard to go that morning with old Mrs. Chuck .
But she had said `` No .
It is n't safe for such a little chap as you . ''
And when Mrs. Chuck said `` No , '' Johnny knew that she meant it , and that it was of no use at all to beg .
So he stood with his hands in his pockets and scowled and scowled as he thought of old Mrs. Chuck 's very last words : `` Now , Johnny , do n't you dare put a foot outside of the yard until I get back . ''
Pretty soon along came Peter Rabbit .
Peter was trying to jump over his own shadow .
When he saw Johnny Chuck he stopped abruptly .
Then he looked up at the blue sky and winked at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
`` Looks mighty showery ` round here , '' he remarked to no one in particular .
Johnny Chuck smiled in spite of himself .
Then he told Peter Rabbit how he had got to stay at home and mind the house and could n't put his foot outside the yard .
Now Peter has n't had the best bringing up in the world , for his mother has such a big family that she is kept busy just getting them something to eat .
So Peter has been allowed to bring himself up and do just about as he pleases .
`` How long will your mother be gone ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Most all the morning , '' said Johnny Chuck mournfully .
Peter hopped a couple of steps nearer .
`` Say , Johnny , '' he whispered , `` how is she going to know whether you stay in the yard all the time or not , so long as you are here when she gets home ?
I know where there 's the dandiest sweet-clover patch .
We can go over there and back easy before old Mrs. Chuck gets home , and she wo n't know anything about it .
Come on ! ''
Johnny Chuck 's mouth watered at the thought of the sweet-clover , but still he hesitated , for Johnny Chuck had been taught to mind . ''
` Fraid cat !
` Fraid cat !
Tied to your mother 's apron strings ! ''
jeered Peter Rabbit .
`` I ai n't either ! ''
cried Johnny Chuck .
And then , just to prove it , he thrust his hands into his pockets and swaggered out into the Lone Little Path .
`` Where 's your old clover patch ? ''
asked he .
`` I 'll show you , '' said Peter Rabbit , and off he started , lipperty-lipperty-lip , so fast that Johnny Chuck lost his breath trying to make his short legs keep up .
And all the time Johnny 's conscience was pricking him .
Peter Rabbit left the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows for some secret little paths of his own .
His long legs took him over the ground very fast .
Johnny Chuck , running behind him , grew tired and hot , for Johnny 's legs are short and he is fat and roly-poly .
At times all he could see was the white patch on the seat of Peter Rabbit 's pants .
He began to wish that he had minded old Mrs. Chuck and stayed at home .
It was too late to go back now , for he did n't know the way .
`` Wait up , Peter Rabbit ! ''
he called .
Peter Rabbit just flirted his tail and ran faster .
`` Please , please wait for me , Peter Rabbit , '' panted Johnny Chuck , and began to cry .
Yes , Sir , he began to cry .
You see he was so hot and tired , and then he was so afraid that he would lose sight of Peter Rabbit .
If he did he would surely be lost , and then what should he do ?
The very thought made him run just a little faster .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Please , please wait for me , Peter Rabbit , '' panted Johnny Chuck . -RSB-
Now Peter Rabbit is really one of the best-hearted little fellows in the world , just happy-go-lucky and careless .
So when finally he looked back and saw Johnny Chuck way , way behind , with the tears running down his cheeks , and how hot and tired he looked , Peter sat down and waited .
Pretty soon Johnny Chuck came up , puffing and blowing , and threw himself flat on the ground .
`` Please , Peter Rabbit , is it very much farther to the sweet-clover patch ? ''
he panted , wiping his eyes with the backs of his hands .
`` No , '' replied Peter Rabbit , `` just a little way more .
We 'll rest here a few minutes and then I wo n't run so fast . ''
So Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck lay down in the grass to rest while Johnny Chuck recovered his breath .
Every minute or two Peter would sit up very straight , prick up his long ears and look this way and look that way as if he expected to see something unusual .
It made Johnny Chuck nervous .
`` What do you keep doing that for , Peter Rabbit ? ''
he asked .
`` Oh , nothin ' , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
But he kept right on doing it just the same .
Then suddenly , after one of these looks abroad , he crouched down very flat and whispered in Johnny Chuck 's ear in great excitement .
`` Old Whitetail is down here and he 's headed this way .
We 'd better be moving , '' he said .
Johnny Chuck felt a chill of fear .
`` Who is Old Whitetail ? ''
he asked , as he prepared to follow Peter Rabbit .
`` Do n't you know ? ''
asked Peter in surprise .
`` Say , you are green !
Why , he 's Mr. Marsh Hawk , and if he once gets the chance he 'll gobble you up , skin , bones and all .
There 's an old stone wall just a little way from here , and the sooner we get there the better ! ''
Peter Rabbit led the way , and if he had run fast before it was nothing to the way he ran now .
A great fear made Johnny Chuck forget that he was tired , and he ran as he had never run before in all his short life .
Just as he dived head-first into a hole between two big stones , a shadow swept over the grass and something sharp tore a gap in the seat of his pants and made him squeal with fright and pain .
But he wriggled in beside Peter Rabbit and was safe , while Mr. Marsh Hawk flew off with a scream of rage and disappointment .
Johnny Chuck had never been so frightened in all his short life .
He made himself as small as possible and crept as far as he could underneath a friendly stone in the old wall .
His pants were torn and his leg smarted dreadfully where one of Mr. Marsh Hawk 's cruel , sharp claws had scratched him .
How he did wish that he had minded old Mrs. Chuck and stayed in his own yard , as she had told him to .
Peter Rabbit looked at the tear in Johnny Chuck 's pants .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Peter Rabbit , `` do n't mind a little thing like that . ''
`` But I 'm afraid to go home with my pants torn , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` Do n't go home , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
`` I do n't unless I feel like it .
You stay away a long time and then your mother will be so glad to see you that she wo n't ever think of the pants . ''
Johnny Chuck looked doubtful , but before he could say anything Peter Rabbit stuck his head out to see if the way was clear .
It was , and Peter 's long legs followed his head .
`` Come on , Johnny Chuck , '' he shouted .
`` I 'm going over to the sweet-clover patch . ''
But Johnny Chuck was afraid .
He was almost sure that Old Whitetail was waiting just outside to gobble him up .
It was a long time before he would put so much as the tip of his wee black nose out .
But without Peter Rabbit it grew lonesomer and lonesomer in under the old stone wall .
Besides , he was afraid that he would lose Peter Rabbit , and then he would be lost indeed , for he did n't know the way home .
Finally Johnny Chuck ventured to peep out .
There was jolly , round , red Mr. Sun smiling down just as if he was used to seeing little runaway chucks every day .
Johnny looked and looked for Peter Rabbit , but it was a long time before he saw him , and when he did all he saw were Peter Rabbit 's funny long ears above the tops of the waving grass , for Peter Rabbit was hidden in the sweet-clover patch , eating away for dear life .
It was only a little distance , but Johnny Chuck had had such a fright that he tried three times before he grew brave enough to scurry through the tall grass and join Peter Rabbit .
My , how good that sweet-clover did taste !
Johnny Chuck forgot all about Old Whitetail .
He forgot all about his torn pants .
He forgot that he had run away and did n't know the way home .
He just ate and ate and ate until his stomach was so full he could n't stuff another piece of sweet-clover into it .
Suddenly Peter Rabbit grabbed him by a sleeve and pulled him down flat .
`` Sh-h-h , '' said Peter Rabbit , `` do n't move . ''
Johnny Chuck 's heart almost stopped beating .
What new danger could there be now ?
In a minute he heard a queer noise .
Peeping between the stems of sweet-clover he saw -- what do you think ?
Why , old Mrs. Chuck cutting sweet-clover to put in the basket of vegetables she was taking home from Farmer Brown 's garden .
Johnny Chuck gave a great sigh of relief , but he kept very still for he did not want her to find him there after she had told him not to put foot outside his own dooryard .
`` You wait here , '' whispered Peter Rabbit , and crept off through the clover .
Pretty soon Johnny Chuck saw Peter Rabbit steal up behind old Mrs. Chuck and pull four big lettuce leaves out of her basket .
VI PETER RABBIT 'S RUN FOR LIFE `` I wish I had n't run away , '' said Johnny Chuck dolefully , as he and Peter Rabbit peeped out from the sweet-clover patch and watched old Mrs. Chuck start for home with her market basket on her arm .
`` You ought to think yourself lucky that your mother did n't find you here in the sweet-clover patch .
If it had n't been for me she would have , '' said Peter Rabbit .
Johnny Chuck 's face grew longer and longer .
His pants were torn , his leg was stiff and sore where old Mr. Marsh Hawk had scratched him that morning , but worse still his conscience pricked him .
Yes , Sir , Johnny Chuck 's conscience was pricking him hard , very hard indeed , because he had run away from home with Peter Rabbit after old Mrs. Chuck had told him not to leave the yard while she was away .
Now he did n't know the way home .
`` Peter Rabbit , I want to go home , '' said Johnny Chuck suddenly .
`` Is n't there a short cut so that I can get home before my mother does ? ''
`` No , there is n't , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` And if there was what good would it do you ?
Old Mrs. Chuck would see that tear in your pants and then you 'd catch it ! ''
`` I do n't care .
Please wo n't you show me the way home , Peter Rabbit ? ''
begged Johnny Chuck .
Peter Rabbit yawned lazily as he replied : `` What 's the use of going now ?
You 'll catch it anyway , so you might as well stay and have all fun you can .
Say , I know a dandy old house up on the hill .
Jimmy Skunk used to live there , but no one lives in it now .
Let 's go up and see it .
It 's a dandy place . ''
Now right down in his heart Johnny Chuck knew that he ought to go home , but he could n't go unless Peter Rabbit would show him the way , and then he did want to see that old house .
Perhaps Peter Rabbit was right -LRB- in his heart he knew that he was n't -RRB- and he had better have all the fun he could .
So Johnny Chuck followed Peter Rabbit up the hill to the old house of Jimmy Skunk .
Cobwebs covered the doorway .
Johnny Chuck was going to brush them away , but Peter Rabbit stopped him .
`` Let 's see if there is n't a back door , '' said he .
`` Then we can use that , and if Bowser the Hound or Farmer Brown 's boy comes along and finds this door they 'll think no one ever lives here any more and you 'll be safer than if you were right in your own home . ''
So they hunted and hunted , and by and by Johnny Chuck found the back door way off at one side and cunningly hidden under a tangle of grass .
Inside was a long dark hall and at the end of that a nice big room .
It was very dirty , and Johnny Chuck , who is very neat , at once began to clean house and soon had it spick and span .
Suddenly they heard a voice outside the front door .
`` Does n't look as if anybody lives here , but seems as if I smell young rabbit and -- yes , I 'm sure I smell young chuck , too .
Guess I 'll have a look inside . ''
`` It 's old Granny Fox , '' whispered Peter Rabbit , trembling with fright .
Then Peter Rabbit did a very brave thing .
He remembered that Johnny Chuck could not run very fast and that if it had n't been for him , Johnny Chuck would be safe at home .
`` You stay right here , '' whispered Peter Rabbit .
Then he slipped out the back door .
Half-way down the hill he stopped and shouted : `` Old Granny Fox Is slower than an ox ! ''
Then he started for the old brier patch as fast as his long legs could take him , and after him ran Granny Fox .
Peter Rabbit was running for his life .
There was no doubt about it .
Right behind him , grinding her long white teeth , her eyes snapping , ran old Granny Fox .
Peter Rabbit did not like to think what would happen to him if she should catch him .
Peter Rabbit was used to running for his life .
He had to do it at least once every day .
But usually he was near a safe hiding place and he rather enjoyed the excitement .
This time , however , the only place of safety he could think of was the friendly old brier patch , and that was a long way off .
Back at the old house on the hill , where Granny Fox had discovered Peter Rabbit , was little Johnny Chuck , trembling with fright .
He crept to the back door of the old house to watch .
He saw Granny Fox getting nearer and nearer to Peter Rabbit .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
She 'll catch Peter Rabbit !
She 'll catch Peter Rabbit ! ''
wailed Johnny Chuck , wringing his hands in despair .
It certainly looked as if Granny Fox would .
She was right at Peter Rabbit 's heels .
Poor , happy-go-lucky , little Peter Rabbit !
Two more jumps and Granny Fox would have him !
Johnny Chuck shut his eyes tight , for he did n't want to see .
But Peter Rabbit had no intention of being caught so easily .
While he had seemed to be running his very hardest , really he was not .
And all the time he was watching Granny Fox , for Peter Rabbit 's big eyes are so placed that he can see behind him without turning his head .
So he knew when Granny Fox was near enough to catch him in one more jump .
Then Peter Rabbit dodged .
Yes , Sir , Peter Rabbit dodged like a flash , and away he went in another direction lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as he could go .
Old Granny Fox had been so sure that in another minute she would have tender young rabbit for her dinner that she had begun to smile and her mouth actually watered .
She did not see where she was going .
All she saw was the white patch on the seat of Peter Rabbit 's trousers bobbing up and down right in front of her nose .
When Peter Rabbit dodged , something surprising happened .
Johnny Chuck , who had opened his eyes to see if all was over , jumped up and shouted for joy , and did a funny little dance in the doorway of the old house on the hill .
Peter had dodged right in front of a wire fence , a fence with ugly , sharp barbs , and right smack into it ran Granny Fox !
It scratched her face and tore her bright red cloak .
It threw her back flat on the ground , with all the wind knocked out of her body .
When finally she had gotten her breath and scrambled to her feet , Peter Rabbit was almost over to the friendly old brier patch .
He stopped and sat up very straight .
Then he put his hands on his hips and shouted : `` Run , Granny , run !
Here comes a man who 's got a gun ! ''
Granny Fox started nervously and looked this way and looked that way .
There was no one in sight .
Then she shook a fist at Peter Rabbit and started to limp off home .
Johnny Chuck gave a great sigh of relief .
`` My , '' said he , `` I wish I was as smart as Peter Rabbit ! ''
`` You will be if you live long enough , '' said a voice right behind him .
It was old Mr. Toad .
Mr. Toad and Johnny Chuck sat in the doorway of the old house on the hill and watched old Granny Fox limp off home .
`` I wonder what it would seem like not to be afraid of anything in the whole world , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` People who mind their own business and do n't get into mischief do n't need to be afraid of anything , '' said Mr. Toad .
Johnny Chuck remembered how safe he had always felt at home with old Mrs. Chuck and how many times and how badly he had been frightened since he ran away that morning .
`` I guess perhaps you are right , Mr. Toad , '' said Johnny Chuck doubtfully .
`` Of course I 'm right , '' replied Mr. Toad .
`` Of course I 'm right .
Look at me ; I attend strictly to my own affairs and no one ever bothers me . ''
`` That 's because you are so homely that no one wants you for a dinner when he can find anything else , '' said Peter Rabbit , who had come up from the friendly old brier patch .
`` Better be homely than to need eyes in the back of my head to keep my skin whole , '' retorted Mr. Toad .
`` Now I do n't know what it is to be afraid . ''
`` Not of old Granny Fox ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` No , '' said Mr. Toad .
`` Nor Bowser the Hound ? ''
`` No , '' said Mr. Toad .
`` He 's a friend of mine . ''
Then Mr. Toad swelled himself up very big .
`` I 'm not afraid of anything under the sun , '' boasted Mr. Toad .
Peter Rabbit looked at Johnny Chuck and slowly winked one eye .
`` I guess I 'll go up the hill and have a look around , '' said Peter Rabbit , hitching up his trousers .
So Peter Rabbit went off up the hill , while Mr. Toad smoothed down his dingy white waistcoat and told Johnny Chuck what a foolish thing fear is .
By and by there was a queer rustling in the grass back of them .
Mr. Toad hopped around awkwardly .
`` What was that ? ''
he whispered .
`` Just the wind in the grass , I guess , '' said Johnny Chuck .
For a while all was still and Mr. Toad settled himself comfortably and began to talk once more .
`` No , Sir , '' said Mr. Toad , `` I 'm not afraid of anything . ''
Just then there was another rustle in the grass , a little nearer than before .
Mr. Toad certainly was nervous .
He stretched up on the tips of his toes and looked in the direction of the sound .
Then Mr. Toad turned pale .
Yes , Sir , Mr. Toad actually turned pale !
His big , bulging eyes looked as if they would pop out of his head .
`` I -- I must be going , '' said Mr. Toad hastily .
`` I quite forgot an important engagement down on the Green Meadows .
If Mr. Blacksnake should happen to call , do n't mention that you have seen me , will you , Johnny Chuck ? ''
Johnny Chuck looked over in the grass .
Something long and slim and black was wriggling through it .
When he turned about again , Mr. Toad was half-way down the hill , going with such big hops that three times he fell flat on his face , and when he picked himself up he did n't even stop to brush off his clothes .
`` I wonder what it seems like not to be afraid of anything in the world ? ''
said a voice right behind Johnny Chuck .
There stood Peter Rabbit laughing so that he had to hold his sides , and in one hand was the end of an old leather strap which he had fooled Mr. Toad into thinking was Mr. Blacksnake .
VII A JOKER FOOLED Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck sat in the doorway of Jimmy Skunk 's deserted old house on the hill and looked down across the Green Meadows .
Every few minutes Peter Rabbit would chuckle as he thought of how he had fooled Mr. Toad into thinking that an old leather strap was Mr. Blacksnake .
`` Is Mr. Blacksnake so very dangerous ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck , who had seen very little of the world .
`` Not for you or me , '' replied Peter Rabbit , `` because we 've grown too big for him to swallow .
But he would like nothing better than to catch Mr. Toad for his dinner .
But if you ever meet Mr. Blacksnake , be polite to him .
He is very quick tempered , is Mr. Blacksnake , but if you do n't bother him he 'll not bother you .
My goodness , I wonder what 's going on down there in the alders ! ''
Johnny Chuck looked over to the alder thicket .
He saw Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow and Mrs. Redwing sitting in the alders .
They were calling back and forth , apparently very much excited .
Peter Rabbit looked this way and that way to see if the coast was clear .
`` Come on , Johnny Chuck , let 's go down and see what the trouble is , '' said he , for you know Peter Rabbit has a great deal of curiosity .
So down to the alder thicket skipped Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck as fast as they could go .
Half-way there they were joined by Danny Meadow Mouse , for he too had heard the fuss and wanted to know what it all meant .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit of Sammy Jay , but Sammy was too excited to answer and simply pointed down into the middle of the alder thicket .
So the three of them , one behind the other , very softly crept in among the alders .
A great commotion was going on among the dead leaves .
Danny Meadow Mouse gave one look , then he turned as pale as did Mr. Toad when Peter Rabbit fooled him with the old leather strap .
`` This is no place for me ! ''
exclaimed Danny Meadow Mouse , and started for home as fast as he could run .
Partly under an old log lay Mr. Blacksnake .
There seemed to be something the matter with him .
He looked sick , and threshed and struggled till he made the leaves fly .
Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Mrs. Redwing called all sorts of insulting things to him , but he paid no attention to them .
Once Mrs. Redwing darted down and pecked him sharply .
But Mr. Blacksnake seemed quite helpless .
`` What 's the matter with him ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck in a whisper .
`` Nothing .
Wait and you 'll see .
Sammy Jay and Mrs. Redwing better watch out or they 'll be sorry , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
Just then Mr. Blacksnake wedged his head in under the old log and began to push and wriggle harder than ever .
Then Johnny Chuck gasped .
Mr. Blacksnake was crawling out of his clothes !
Yes , Sir , his old suit was coming off wrong side out , just like a glove , and underneath he wore a splendid new suit of shiny black !
`` It 's time for us to be moving , '' whispered Peter Rabbit .
`` After Mr. Blacksnake has changed his clothes he is pretty short tempered .
Just hear him hiss at Mrs. Redwing and Sammy Jay ! ''
They tiptoed out of the alder thicket and started back for the old house on the hill .
Peter Rabbit suddenly giggled out loud .
`` To-morrow , '' said Peter Rabbit `` we 'll come back and get Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit and have some fun with Danny Meadow Mouse . ''
The next morning Danny Meadow Mouse sat on his doorstep nodding .
He was dreaming that his tail was long like the tails of all his cousins .
One of Old Mother West Wind 's Merry Little Breezes stole up and whispered in his ear .
Danny Meadow Mouse was awake , wide awake in an instant .
`` So Peter Rabbit is going to play a joke on me and scare me into fits ! ''
said Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Yes , '' said the Merry Little Breeze , `` for I overheard him telling Johnny Chuck all about it . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse began to laugh softly to himself .
`` Will you do something for me ? ''
he asked the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Sure , '' replied the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Then go find Cresty the Fly-catcher and tell him that I want to see him , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse .
The Merry Little Breeze hurried away , and pretty soon back he came with Cresty the Fly-catcher .
Now all this time Peter Rabbit had been very busy planning his joke on Danny Meadow Mouse .
He and Johnny Chuck had gone down to the alder thicket , where they had seen Mr. Blacksnake change his clothes , and they had found his old suit just as he had left it .
`` We 'll take this up and stretch it out behind a big tussock of grass near the home of Danny Meadow Mouse , '' chuckled Peter Rabbit .
`` Then I 'll invite Danny Meadow Mouse to take a walk , and when we come by the tussock of grass he will think he sees Mr. Blacksnake himself all ready to swallow him .
Then we 'll see some fun . ''
So they carried Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit of clothes and hid it behind the big tussock of grass , and arranged it to look as much like Mr. Blacksnake as they could .
Then Johnny Chuck went back to the old house on the hill to watch the fun , while Peter Rabbit went to call on Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Good morning , Peter Rabbit , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse politely .
`` Good morning , Danny Meadow Mouse , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
`` Do n't you want to take a walk with me this fine morning ? ''
`` I 'll be delighted to go , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse , reaching for his hat .
So they started out to walk and presently they came to the big tussock of grass .
Peter Rabbit stopped .
`` Excuse me , while I tie up my shoe .
You go ahead and I 'll join you in a minute , '' said Peter Rabbit .
So Danny Meadow Mouse went ahead .
As soon as his back was turned Peter Rabbit clapped both hands over his mouth to keep from laughing , for you see he expected to see Danny Meadow Mouse come flying back in great fright the minute he turned the big tussock and saw Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit .
Peter Rabbit waited and waited , but no Danny Meadow Mouse .
What did it mean ?
Peter stopped laughing and peeped around the big tussock .
There sat Danny Meadow Mouse with both hands clapped over his mouth , and laughing till the tears rolled down his cheeks , and Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit was nowhere to be seen .
`` He laughs best who laughs last , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse to himself , late that afternoon , as he sat on his doorstep and chuckled softly .
When he had first heard from a Merry Little Breeze that Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck were planning to play a joke on him and scare him into fits with a suit of Mr. Blacksnake 's old clothes , he had tried very hard to think of some way to turn the joke on the jokers .
Then he had remembered Cresty the Fly-catcher and had sent for him .
Now Cresty the Fly-catcher is a handsome fellow .
In fact he is quite the gentleman , and does not look at all like one who would be at all interested in any one 's old clothes .
But he is .
He is never satisfied until he has lined the hollow in the old apple-tree , which is his home , with the old clothes of Mr. Snake .
So when Danny Meadow Mouse sent for him and whispered in his ear Cresty the Fly-catcher smiled broadly and winked knowingly .
`` I certainly will be there , Danny Meadow Mouse , I certainly will be there , '' said he .
And he was there .
He had hidden in a tree close by the big tussock of grass , behind which Peter Rabbit had planned to place Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit so as to scare Danny Meadow Mouse .
His eyes had sparkled when he saw what a fine big suit it was .
`` My , but this will save me a lot of trouble , '' said he to himself .
`` It 's the finest old suit I 've ever seen . ''
The minute Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck had turned their backs down dropped Cresty the Fly-catcher , picked up Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit , and taking it with him , once more hid in the tree .
Presently back came Peter Rabbit with Danny Meadow Mouse .
You know what had happened then .
Cresty the Fly-catcher had nearly dropped his prize , it tickled him so to see Peter Rabbit on one side of the big tussock laughing fit to kill himself at the scare he thought Danny Meadow Mouse would get when he first saw Mr. Blacksnake 's old suit , and on the other side of the big tussock Danny Meadow Mouse laughing fit to kill himself over the surprise Peter Rabbit would get when he found that Mr. Blacksnake 's old clothes had disappeared .
Pretty soon Peter Rabbit had stopped laughing and peeped around the big tussock .
There sat Danny Meadow Mouse laughing fit to kill himself , but not a trace of the old suit which was to have given him such a scare .
Peter could n't believe his own eyes , for he had left it there not three minutes before .
Of course it would n't do to say anything about it , so he had hurried around the big tussock as if he was merely trying to catch up .
`` What are you laughing at , Danny Meadow Mouse ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` I was thinking what a joke it would be if we could only find an old suit of Mr. Blacksnake 's and fool old Mr. Toad into thinking that it was Mr. Blacksnake himself , '' replied Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` What are you looking for , Peter Rabbit ?
Have you lost something ? ''
`` No , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I thought I heard footsteps , and I was looking to see if it could be Reddy Fox creeping through the grass . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse had stopped laughing .
`` Excuse me , Peter Rabbit , '' said he hurriedly , `` I 've just remembered an important engagement . ''
And off he started for home as fast as he could go .
And to this day Peter Rabbit does n't know what became of Mr. Blacksnake 's old clothes .
VIII THE FUSS IN THE BIG PINE Peter Rabbit hopped down the Crooked Little Path to the Lone Little Path and down the Lone Little Path to the home of Johnny Chuck .
Johnny Chuck sat on his doorstep dreaming .
They were very pleasant dreams , very pleasant dreams indeed .
They were such pleasant dreams that for once Johnny Chuck forgot to put his funny little ears on guard .
So Johnny Chuck sat on his doorstep dreaming and heard nothing .
Lipperty-lipperty-lip down the Lone Little Path came Peter Rabbit .
He saw Johnny Chuck and he stopped long enough to pluck a long stem of grass .
Then very , very softly he stole up behind Johnny Chuck .
Reaching out with the long stem of grass , he tickled one of Johnny Chuck 's ears .
Johnny Chuck slapped at his ear with a little black hand , for he thought a fly was bothering him , just as Peter Rabbit meant that he should .
Peter tickled the other ear .
Johnny Chuck shook his head and slapped at this with the other little black hand .
Peter almost giggled .
He sat still a few minutes , then tickled Johnny Chuck again .
Johnny slapped three or four times at the imaginary fly .
This time Peter clapped both hands over his mouth to keep from laughing .
Once more he tickled Johnny Chuck .
This time Johnny jumped clear off his doorstep .
Peter laughed before he could clap his hands over his mouth .
Of course Johnny Chuck heard him and whirled about .
When he saw Peter Rabbit and the long stem of grass he laughed , too .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
You fooled me that time .
Where 'd you come from ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` Down the Lone Little Path from the Crooked Little Path and down the Crooked Little Path from the top of the Hill , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
Then they sat down side by side on Johnny Chuck 's doorstep to watch Reddy Fox hunting for his dinner on the Green Meadows .
Pretty soon they heard Blacky the Crow cawing very loudly .
They could see him on the tip-top of a big pine in the Green Forest on the edge of the Green Meadows .
`` Caw , caw , caw , '' shouted Blacky the Crow , at the top of his lungs .
In a few minutes they saw all of Blacky 's aunts and uncles and cousins flying over to join Blacky at the big pine in the midst of the Green Forest .
Soon there was a big crowd of crows around the big pine , all talking at once .
Such a racket !
Such a dreadful racket !
Every few minutes one of them would fly into the big pine and yell at the top of his lungs .
Then all would caw together .
Another would fly into the big pine and they would do it all over again .
Peter Rabbit began to get interested , for you know Peter has a very great deal of curiosity .
`` Now I wonder what Blacky the Crow and his aunts and his uncles and his cousins are making such a fuss about , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm sure I do n't know , '' replied Johnny Chuck .
`` They seem to be having a good time , anyway .
My gracious , how noisy they are ! ''
Just then along came Sammy Jay , who is , as you know , first cousin to Blacky the Crow .
He was coming from the direction of the big pine .
`` Sammy !
Oh , Sammy Jay !
What is all that fuss about over in the big pine ? ''
shouted Peter Rabbit .
Sammy Jay stopped and carefully brushed his handsome blue coat , for Sammy Jay is something of a dandy .
He appeared not to have heard Peter Rabbit .
`` Sammy Jay , are you deaf ? ''
inquired Peter Rabbit .
Now of course Sammy Jay had seen Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck all the time , but he looked up as if very much surprised to find them there .
`` Oh , hello , Peter Rabbit ! ''
said Sammy Jay .
`` Did you speak to me ? ''
`` No , oh , no , '' replied Peter Rabbit in disgust .
`` I was talking to myself , just thinking out loud .
I was wondering how many nuts a Jay could steal if he had the chance . ''
Johnny Chuck chuckled and Sammy Jay looked foolish .
He could n't find a word to say , for he knew that all the little meadow people knew how he once was caught stealing Happy Jack 's store of nuts .
`` I asked what all that fuss over in the big pine is about , '' continued Peter Rabbit .
`` Oh , '' said Sammy Jay , `` my cousin , Blacky the Crow , found Hooty the Owl asleep over there , and now he and his aunts and his uncles and his cousins are having no end of fun with him .
You know Hooty the Owl can not see in the daytime very well , and they can do almost anything to him that they want to .
It 's great sport . ''
`` I do n't see any sport in making other people uncomfortable , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` Nor I , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'd be ashamed to own a cousin like Blacky the Crow .
I like people who mind their own affairs and leave other people alone . ''
Sammy Jay ran out his tongue at Peter Rabbit .
`` You are a nice one to talk about minding other folk 's affairs ! ''
jeered Sammy Jay .
`` Peter Rabbit 's ears are long ; I wonder why !
I wonder why !
Because to hear what others say He 's bound to try !
he 's bound to try . ''
It was Peter Rabbit 's turn to look discomfited .
`` Anyway , I do n't try to bully and torment others and I do n't steal , '' he retorted .
`` Sammy Jay 's a handsome chap And wears a coat of blue .
I wonder if it 's really his Or if he stole that , too . ''
Just then Johnny Chuck 's sharp eyes caught sight of something stealing along the edge of the Green Meadows toward the Green Forest and the big pine .
`` There 's Farmer Brown 's boy with a gun , '' cried Johnny Chuck .
`` There 's going to be trouble at the big pine if Blacky the Crow does n't watch out .
That 's what comes of being so noisy . ''
Peter Rabbit and Sammy Jay stopped quarreling to look .
Sure enough , there was Farmer Brown 's boy with his gun .
He had heard Blacky the Crow and his aunts and his uncles and his cousins and he had hurried to get his gun , hoping to take them by surprise .
But Blacky the Crow has sharp eyes , too .
Indeed , there are none sharper .
Then , too , he is a mischief-maker .
Mischief-makers are always on the watch lest they get caught in their mischief .
So Blacky the Crow , sitting on the tip-top of the big pine , kept one eye out for trouble while he enjoyed the tormenting of Hooty the Owl by his aunts and his uncles and his cousins .
He had seen Farmer Brown 's boy even before Johnny Chuck had .
But he could n't bear to spoil the fun of tormenting Hooty the Owl , so he waited just as long as he dared .
Then he gave the signal .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky at the top of his lungs .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
replied all his aunts and uncles and cousins , rising into the air in a black cloud .
Then , with Blacky in the lead , they flew over on to the Green Meadows , laughing and talking noisily as they went .
Farmer Brown 's boy did not try to follow them , for he knew that it was of not the least bit of use .
But he was curious to learn what the crows had been making such a fuss about , so he kept on towards the big pine .
Johnny Chuck watched him go .
Suddenly he remembered Hooty the Owl , and that Hooty can not see well in the daytime .
Very likely Hooty would think that the crows had become tired of tormenting him and had gone off of their own accord .
Farmer Brown 's boy would find him there and then -- Johnny Chuck shuddered as he thought of what might happen to Hooty the Owl .
`` Run , Peter Rabbit , run as fast as you can down on the Green Meadows where the Merry Little Breezes are at play and send one of them to tell Hooty the Owl that Farmer Brown 's boy is coming with a gun to the big pine !
Hurry , Peter , hurry ! ''
cried Johnny Chuck .
Peter did not need to be told twice .
He saw the danger of Hooty the Owl , and he started down the Lone Little Path on to the Green Meadows so fast that in a few minutes all Johnny Chuck and Sammy Jay could see of him was a little spot of white , which was the patch on the seat of Peter 's pants , bobbing through the grass on the Green Meadows .
Johnny Chuck would have gone himself , but he is round and fat and roly-poly and can not run fast , while Peter Rabbit 's legs are long and meant for running .
In a few minutes Johnny Chuck saw one of the Merry Little Breezes start for the big pine as fast as he could go .
Johnny gave a great sigh of relief .
Farmer Brown 's boy kept on to the big pine .
When he got there he found no one there , for Hooty the Owl had heeded the warning of the Merry Little Breeze and had flown into the deepest , darkest part of the Green Forest , where not even the sharp eyes of Blacky the Crow were likely to find him .
And back on his doorstep Johnny Chuck chuckled to himself , for he was happy , was Johnny Chuck , happy because he possessed the best thing in the world , which is contentment .
And this is all I am going to tell you about the fuss in the big pine .
IX JOHNNY CHUCK FINDS A USE FOR HIS BACK DOOR Johnny Chuck sat in his doorway looking over the Green Meadows .
He felt very fine .
He had had a good breakfast in the sweet-clover patch .
He had had a good nap on his own doorstep .
By and by he saw the Merry Little Breezes of old Mother West Wind hurrying in his direction .
They seemed in a very great hurry .
They did n't stop to kiss the buttercups or tease the daisies .
Johnny pricked up his small ears and watched them hurry up the hill .
`` Good morning , Johnny Chuck , '' panted the first Merry Little Breeze to reach him , `` have you heard the news ? ''
`` What news ? ''
asked Johnny Chuck .
`` The news about old Mother Chuck , '' replied the Merry Little Breezes .
Johnny shook his head .
`` No , '' said he .
`` What is it ? ''
The Merry Little Breezes grew very , very sober .
`` It is bad news , '' they replied .
`` What is it ?
Tell me quick ! ''
begged Johnny .
Just then Reddy Fox came hopping and skipping down the Lone Little Path .
`` Hi , Johnny Chuck , have you heard the news ? ''
`` No , '' said Johnny Chuck , `` do tell me quick ! ''
Reddy Fox grinned maliciously , for Reddy likes to torment others .
`` It 's about old Mrs. Chuck , '' said Reddy .
`` I know that already , '' replied Johnny , `` but , please , what is it ? ''
`` Farmer Brown 's boy has caught old Mrs. Chuck , and now I would n't wonder but what he will come up here and catch you , '' replied Reddy , turning a somersault .
Johnny Chuck grew pale .
He had not seen Mother Chuck to speak to since he ran away from home .
Now he was glad that he had run away , and yet sorry , oh , so sorry that anything had happened to Mrs. Chuck .
Two big tears came into his eyes and ran down his funny little black nose .
The Merry Little Breezes saw this , and one of them hurried over and whispered in Johnny Chuck 's ear .
`` Do n't cry , Johnny Chuck , '' whispered the Merry Little Breeze .
`` Old Mother Chuck got away , and Farmer Brown 's boy is still wondering how she did it . ''
Johnny 's heart gave a great throb of relief .
`` I do n't believe that Farmer Brown 's boy will catch me , '' said Johnny Chuck , `` for my house has two back doors . ''
Johnny Chuck awoke very early the next morning .
He stretched and yawned and then just lay quietly enjoying himself for a few minutes .
His bedchamber , way down underground , was snug and warm and very , very comfortable .
By and by , Johnny Chuck heard a noise up by his front door .
`` I wonder what is going on out there , '' said Johnny Chuck to himself , and jumping up , he tiptoed softly up the long hall until he had almost reached his doorway .
Then he heard a voice which he had heard before , and it made little shivers run all over him .
It was the voice of Granny Fox .
`` So this is where that fat little Chuck has made his home , '' said Granny Fox .
`` Yes , '' replied another voice , `` this is where Johnny Chuck lives , for I saw him here yesterday . ''
Johnny pricked up his ears , for that was the voice of Reddy Fox .
`` Do you think he is in here now ? ''
inquired Granny Fox .
`` I am sure of it , '' replied Reddy , `` for I have been watching ever since jolly , round , red Mr. Sun threw his nightcap off this morning , and Johnny Chuck has not put his nose out yet . ''
`` Good , '' said Granny Fox , `` I think fat Chuck will taste good for breakfast . ''
Johnny felt the cold shivers run over him again as he heard Granny Fox and Reddy Fox smack their lips .
Then Granny Fox spoke again : `` You lie down behind that bunch of grass over there , Reddy , and I will lie down behind the old apple-tree .
When he comes out , you just jump into his doorway and I will catch him before he can say Jack Robinson . ''
Johnny waited and listened and listened , but all was as still as still could be .
Then Johnny Chuck tiptoed back along the hall to his bedroom and sat down to think .
He felt sure that Granny Fox and Reddy were waiting for him , just as he had heard them plan .
`` However am I going to know when they leave ? ''
said Johnny Chuck to himself .
Then he remembered the back doors which he had taken such care to make , and which Peter Rabbit had laughed at him for taking the trouble to make .
He had hidden one so cunningly in the long grass and had so carefully removed all sand from around it that he felt quite sure that no one had found it .
Very softly Johnny Chuck crept along the back passageway .
Very , very cautiously he stuck his little black nose out the doorway and sniffed .
Yes , he could smell foxes , but he knew that they were not at his back door .
Little by little he crept out until he could peep through the grass .
There lay Reddy Fox behind a big clump of grass , his eyes fixed on Johnny Chuck 's front door , and there behind the apple-tree lay Granny Fox taking her ease , but all ready to jump when Reddy should give the word .
Johnny Chuck almost giggled out loud as he saw how eagerly Reddy Fox was watching for him .
Then Johnny Chuck had an idea that made him giggle harder .
His black eyes snapped and he chuckled to himself .
Pretty soon along came Bumble the Bee , looking for honey .
He came bustling and humming through the tall grass and settled on a dandelion right on the doorstep of Johnny Chuck 's back door .
`` Good morning , '' grumbled Bumble the Bee .
Johnny put a hand on his lips and beckoned Bumble to come inside .
Now Bumble the Bee is a gruff and rough fellow , but he is a good fellow , too , when you know him .
Johnny Chuck had many times told him of places where the flowers grew thick and sweet , so when Johnny beckoned to him , Bumble came at once .
`` Will you do something for me , Bumble ? ''
whispered Johnny Chuck .
`` Of course , I will , '' replied Bumble , in his gruff voice .
`` What is it ? ''
Then Johnny Chuck told Bumble the Bee how Granny and Reddy Fox were waiting for him to come out for his breakfast and how they had planned to gobble him up for their own breakfast .
Bumble the Bee grew very indignant .
`` What do you want me to do , Johnny Chuck ? ''
he asked .
`` If I can help you , just tell me how . ''
Johnny whispered something to Bumble the Bee , and Bumble laughed right out loud .
Then he buzzed up out of the doorway , and Johnny crept up to watch .
Straight over to where Reddy Fox was squatting behind the clump of grass flew Bumble the Bee , so swiftly that Johnny could hardly see him .
Suddenly Reddy gave a yelp and sprang into the air .
Johnny Chuck clapped both hands over his mouth to keep from laughing out loud , for you see Bumble the Bee had stuck his sharp little lance into one of the ears of Reddy Fox .
Granny Fox looked up and scowled .
`` Keep still , '' she whispered .
Just then Reddy yelped louder than before , for Bumble had stung him in the other ear .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
snapped Granny Fox .
`` I do n't know , '' cried Reddy Fox , hanging on to both ears .
`` You are -- '' began Granny Fox , but Johnny Chuck never knew what she was going to say Reddy Fox was , for you see just then Bumble the Bee thrust his sharp little lance into one of her ears , and before she could turn around he had done the same thing to the other ear .
Granny Fox did n't wait for any more .
She started off as fast as she could go , with Reddy Fox after her , and every few steps they rubbed their ears and shook their heads as if they thought they could shake out the pain .
X BILLY MINK GOES DINNERLESS Down the Laughing Brook came Billy Mink .
He was feeling very good that morning , was Billy Mink , pleased with the world in general and with himself in particular .
When he reached the Smiling Pool he swam out to the Big Rock .
Little Joe Otter was already there , and not far away , lazily floating , with his head and back out of water , was Jerry Muskrat .
`` Hello , Billy Mink , '' cried Little Joe Otter .
`` Hello yourself , '' replied Billy Mink , with a grin .
`` Where are you going ? ''
asked Little Joe Otter .
`` Nowhere in particular , '' replied Billy Mink .
`` Let 's go fishing down to the Big River , '' said Little Joe Otter .
`` Let 's ! ''
cried Billy , diving from the highest point on the Big Rock .
So off they started across the Green Meadows towards the Big River .
Half way there they met Reddy Fox .
`` Hello , Reddy !
Come on with us to the Big River , fishing , '' called Billy Mink .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Come on with us to the Big River , fishing , '' called Billy Mink . -RSB-
Now Reddy Fox is no fisherman , though he likes fish to eat well enough .
He remembered the last time he went fishing and how Billy Mink had laughed at him when he fell into the Smiling Pool .
He was just about to say `` no '' when he changed his mind .
`` All right , I 'll go , '' said Reddy Fox .
So the three of them raced merrily across the Green Meadows until they came to the Big River .
Now Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter are famous fishermen and can swim even faster than the fish themselves .
But Reddy Fox is a poor swimmer and must depend upon his wits .
When they reached the bank of the Big River they very carefully crawled down to a sandy beach .
There , just a little way out from shore , a school of little striped perch were at play .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter prepared to dive in and each grab a fish , but Reddy Fox knew that he could not swim well enough for that .
`` Wait a minute , '' whispered Reddy .
`` Billy Mink , you go up the river a little way and swim out beyond where the fish are at play .
Little Joe Otter , you go down the river a little way and swim out to join Billy Mink .
Then both together rush in as fast as you can swim .
The fish will be so frightened they will rush in where the water is shallow .
Of course you will each catch one , anyway , and perhaps I may be so lucky as to catch one in the shallow water . ''
Billy Mink and little Joe Otter agreed , and did just as Reddy Fox had told them to .
When they were between the playing fish and deep water they started in with a rush .
The little striped perch were young and foolish .
When they saw Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter they rushed madly away from them without looking to see where they were going to .
As Reddy Fox had foreseen would be the case , a lot of them became stranded where the water was too shallow for swimming , and there they jumped and flapped helplessly .
Reddy was waiting for them and in a twinkling his little black paw had scooped half a dozen fish high and dry on the beach .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter were too busy watching the fish to see what Reddy was doing .
He had caught six fish and these he hid under a log .
When Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter swam ashore , Reddy was the picture of disappointment , for he had nothing to show , while the others each had a plump little fish .
`` Never mind , '' said Little Joe Otter , `` I 'll give you the next one I catch . ''
But Billy Mink jeered at Reddy Fox .
`` Pooh !
you 're no fisherman , Reddy Fox !
If I could n't catch fish when they are chased right into my hands I 'd never go fishing . ''
Reddy Fox pretended to be indignant .
`` I tell you what , Billy Mink , '' said he , `` if I do n't catch more fish than you do to-day I 'll bring you the plumpest chicken in Farmer Brown 's dooryard , but if I do catch more fish than you do you will give me the biggest one you catch .
Do you agree ? ''
Now Billy Mink is very fond of plump chicken and here was a chance to get one without danger of meeting Bowser the Hound , who guards Farmer Brown 's chickens .
So Billy Mink agreed to give Reddy Fox the biggest fish he caught that day if Reddy could show more fish than he could at the end of the day .
All the time he chuckled to himself , for you know Billy Mink is a famous fisherman , and he knew that Reddy Fox is a poor swimmer and does not like the water .
By and by they came to another sandy beach like the first one .
They could see another school of foolish young fish at play .
As before , Reddy Fox remained on shore while the others swam out and drove the fish in .
As before Reddy caught half a dozen , while Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter each caught one this time .
Reddy hid five and then pretended to be so tickled over catching one , the smallest of the lot , that Billy Mink did n't once suspect a trick .
Two or three times more Reddy Fox repeated this .
Then he discovered a big pickerel sunning himself beside an old log floating in deep water .
Reddy could n't catch Mr. Pickerel , for the water was deep .
What should he do ?
Reddy sat down to think .
Finally he thought of a plan .
Very cautiously he backed away so as not to scare the big fish .
Then he called Billy Mink .
When Billy saw the big pickerel , his mouth watered , too , and his little black eyes sparkled .
Very quietly Billy slipped into the water back of the old log .
There was not so much as a ripple to warn the big pickerel .
Drawing a long breath , Billy dived under the log , and coming up under the big pickerel , seized it by the middle .
There was a tremendous thrashing and splashing , and then Billy Mink swam ashore and proudly laid the big fish on the bank .
`` Do n't you wish it was yours ? ''
asked Billy Mink .
`` It ought to be mine , for I saw it first , '' said Reddy Fox .
`` But you did n't catch it and I did , '' retorted Billy Mink .
`` I 'm going to have it for my dinner .
My , but I do like fat pickerel ! ''
Billy smacked his lips .
Reddy Fox said nothing , but tried his best to look disappointed and dejected .
All the time he was chuckling inwardly .
For the rest of the day the fishing was poor .
Just as Old Mother West Wind started for the Green Meadows to take her children , the Merry Little Breezes , to their home behind the Purple Hills , the three little fishermen started to count up their catch .
Then Reddy brought out all the fish that he had hidden .
When they saw the pile of fish Reddy Fox had , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter were so surprised that their eyes popped out and their jaws dropped .
Very foolish they looked , very foolish indeed , for Reddy had four times as many as either of them .
Reddy walked over to the big pickerel and picking it up , carried it over to his pile .
`` What are you doing with my fish ? ''
shouted Billy Mink angrily .
`` It is n't yours , it 's mine ! ''
retorted Reddy Fox .
Billy Mink fairly danced up and down he was so angry .
`` It 's not yours ! ''
he shrieked .
`` It 's mine , for I caught it ! ''
`` And you agreed that your biggest fish should be mine if I caught more fish than you did .
I 've caught four times as many , so the pickerel is mine , '' retorted Reddy , winking at Little Joe Otter .
Then Billy Mink did a very foolish thing ; he lost his temper completely .
He called Reddy Fox bad names .
But he did not dare try to take the big pickerel away from Reddy , for Reddy is much bigger than he .
Finally he worked himself into such a rage that he ran off home leaving his pile of fish behind .
Reddy Fox and Little Joe Otter took care not to touch Billy Mink 's fish , but Reddy divided his big pile with Little Joe Otter .
Then they , too , started for home , Reddy carrying the big pickerel .
Late that night , when he had recovered his temper , Billy Mink began to grow hungry .
The more he thought of his fish the hungrier he grew .
Finally he could stand it no longer and started for the Big River to see what had become of his fish .
He reached the strip of beach where he had so foolishly left them just in time to see the last striped perch disappear down the long throat of Mr. Night Heron .
And this is how it happened that Billy Mink went dinnerless to bed .
But he had learned three things , had Billy , and he never forgot them -- that wit is often better than skill ; that it is not only mean but is very foolish to sneer at another ; and that to lose one 's temper is the most foolish thing in the world .
XI GRANDFATHER FROG 'S JOURNEY Grandfather Frog sat on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool and -- Grandfather Frog was asleep !
There was no doubt about it , Grandfather Frog was really and truly asleep .
His hands were folded across his white and yellow waistcoat and his eyes were closed .
Three times the Merry Little Breezes blew a foolish green fly right past his nose ; -- Grandfather Frog did n't so much as blink .
Presently Billy Mink discovered that Grandfather Frog was asleep .
Billy 's little black eyes twinkled with mischief as he hurried over to the slippery slide in search of Little Joe Otter .
Then the two scamps hunted up Jerry Muskrat .
They found him very busy storing away a supply of food in his new house .
At first Jerry refused to listen to what they had to say , but the more they talked the more Jerry became interested .
`` We wo n't hurt Grandfather Frog , not the least little bit , '' protested Billy Mink .
`` It will be just the best joke and the greatest fun ever , and no harm done . ''
The more Jerry thought over Billy Mink 's plan , the funnier the joke seemed .
Finally Jerry agreed to join Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
Then the three put their heads together and with a lot of giggling and chuckling they planned their joke on Grandfather Frog .
Now Jerry Muskrat can stay a very long time under water , and his teeth are long and sharp in order to cut the roots on which he depends for much of his food .
So Jerry swam out to the big green lily-pad on which sat Grandfather Frog fast asleep .
Diving way to the bottom of the Smiling Pool , Jerry cut off the stem of the big green lily-pad close to its root way down in the mud .
While Jerry was at work doing this , Billy Mink sent the Merry Little Breezes hurrying over the Green Meadows to call all the little meadow people to the Smiling Pool .
Then , when Jerry Muskrat came up for a breath of air , Billy Mink dived down and , getting hold of the end of the lily-pad stem , he began to swim , towing the big green lily-pad after him very slowly and gently so as not to waken Grandfather Frog .
When Billy had to come up for air , Little Joe Otter took his place .
Then Jerry Muskrat took his turn .
Across the Smiling Pool , past the Big Rock , they towed the big green lily-pad , while Grandfather Frog slept peacefully , his hands folded over his white and yellow waistcoat .
Past the bulrushes and Jerry Muskrat 's new house , past Little Joe Otter 's slippery slide sailed Grandfather Frog , and still he slept and dreamed of the days when the world was young .
Out of the Smiling Pool and into the Laughing Brook , where the brown water flows smoothly , the three little swimmers towed the big green lily-pad .
It floated along of itself now , and all they had to do was to steer it clear of rocks and old logs .
Once it almost got away from them , on the edge of a tiny waterfall , but all three pulling together towed it out of danger .
At last , in a dear little pool with a mossy green bank , they anchored the big green lily-pad .
Then Billy Mink hurried back to the Smiling Pool to tell the little meadow people where to find Grandfather Frog .
Little Joe Otter climbed out on the mossy green bank and Jerry Muskrat joined him there to rest and dry off .
One by one the little meadow people came hurrying up .
Reddy Fox was the first .
Then came Johnny Chuck and Striped Chipmunk .
Of course Peter Rabbit was on hand .
You can always count Peter in , when there is anything going on among the little meadow people .
Danny Meadow Mouse and Happy Jack Squirrel arrived quite out of breath .
Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow were not far behind .
Last of all came Jimmy Skunk , who never hurries .
Each in turn peeped over the edge of the mossy green bank to see Grandfather Frog still sleeping peacefully on his big green lily-pad in the dear little pool .
Then all hid where they could see him when he awoke , but where he could not see them .
Presently Billy Mink reached out with a long straw and tickled Grandfather Frog on the end of his nose .
Grandfather Frog opened his eyes and yawned sleepily .
Right over his head he saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun smiling down on him just as he last saw him before falling asleep .
He yawned again and then looked to see if Billy Mink was sitting on the Big Rock .
Where was the Big Rock ?
Grandfather Frog sat up very suddenly and rubbed his eyes .
There was n't any Big Rock !
Grandfather Frog pinched himself to make sure that he was awake .
Then he rubbed his eyes again and looked down at the big green lily-pad .
Yes , that was his , the very same lily-pad on which he sat every day .
Grandfather Frog was more perplexed than ever .
Slowly he looked around .
Where were the slippery slide and Jerry Muskrat 's new house ?
Where were the bulrushes and where -- where was the Smiling Pool ?
Grandfather Frog 's jaw dropped as he looked about him .
His own big green lily-pad was the only lily-pad in sight .
Had the world turned topsy-turvy while he slept ?
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` This is very strange , very strange , indeed ! ''
Then he turned around three times and pinched himself again .
`` Very strange , very strange , indeed , '' muttered Grandfather Frog over and over again .
He scratched his head first with one hand and then with the other , and the more he scratched the stranger it all seemed .
Just then he heard a giggle up on the mossy green bank .
Grandfather Frog whirled around .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Billy Mink , come out from behind that tall grass and tell me where I am and what this means !
I might have known that you were at the bottom of it . ''
Then out jumped all the little meadow people and the Merry Little Breezes to shout and laugh and dance and roll over and over on the mossy green bank .
Grandfather Frog looked at one and then at another and gradually he began to smile .
Pretty soon he was laughing as hard as any of them , as Billy Mink told how they had towed him down to the dear little pool .
`` And now , Grandfather Frog , we 'll take you home again , '' concluded Billy Mink .
So , as before , Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat took turns towing the big green lily-pad , while in the middle of it sat Grandfather Frog , catching foolish green flies which the Merry Little Breezes blew over to him .
Reddy Fox , Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , Danny Meadow Mouse , Striped Chipmunk , Happy Jack Squirrel and Jimmy Skunk raced and capered along the bank and shouted encouragement to the three little swimmers , while over-head flew Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow .
And , never once losing his balance , Grandfather Frog sat on the big green lily-pad , enjoying his strange ride and smacking his lips over the foolish green flies .
And so they came once more to the Smiling Pool , past the slippery slide , past the bulrushes and Jerry Muskrat 's new house and the Big Rock , until Grandfather Frog and his queer craft were once more anchored safe and sound in the old familiar place .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog .
`` I think I 'd like to go again . ''
XII WHY BLACKY THE CROW WEARS MOURNING Grandfather Frog sat on his big green lily-pad in the Smiling Pool .
Grandfather Frog felt very good that morning , very good indeed , because -- why , because his white and yellow waistcoat was full of foolish green flies .
It is doubtful , very , very doubtful if Grandfather Frog could have swallowed another foolish green fly to save his life .
So he sat with his hands folded across his white and yellow waistcoat , and into his eyes , his great goggly eyes , there crept a far , far , far away look .
Grandfather Frog was dreaming of the days when the world was young and the frogs ruled the world .
Pretty soon the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind came over to the Smiling Pool to rock Mrs. Redwing 's babies to sleep in their cradle in the bulrushes .
But when they saw Grandfather Frog they forgot all about Mrs. Redwing and her babies .
`` Good morning , Grandfather Frog ! ''
they shouted .
Grandfather Frog awoke from his dream with a funny little jump .
`` Goodness , how you startled me ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , smoothing down his white and yellow waistcoat .
The Merry Little Breezes giggled .
`` We did n't mean to , truly we did n't , '' said the merriest one of all .
`` We just wanted to know how you do this fine morning , and -- and -- '' `` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog , `` you want me to tell you a story . ''
The Merry Little Breezes giggled again .
`` How did you ever guess it ? ''
they cried .
`` It must be because you are so very , very wise .
Will you tell us a story , Grandfather Frog ?
Will you please ? ''
Grandfather Frog looked up and winked one big , goggly eye at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , who was smiling down from the blue sky .
Then he sat still so long that the Merry Little Breezes began to fear that Grandfather Frog was out of sorts and that there would be no story that morning .
They fidgeted about among the bulrushes and danced back and forth across the lily-pads .
They had even begun to think again of Mrs. Redwing 's babies .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog suddenly .
`` What shall I tell you about ? ''
Just then a black shadow swept across the Smiling Pool .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow noisily , as he flew over toward Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
`` Tell us why Blacky the Crow always wears a coat of black , as if he were in mourning , '' shouted the Merry Little Breezes .
Grandfather Frog watched Blacky disappear behind the Lone Pine .
Then , when the Merry Little Breezes had settled down , each in the golden heart of a white water-lily , he began : `` Once upon a time , when the world was young , old Mr. Crow , the grandfather a thousand times removed of Blacky , whom you all know , lived in the Green Forest on the edge of the Green Meadows , just as Blacky does now , and with him lived his brothers and sisters , his uncles and aunts , his cousins and all his poor relations .
`` Now Mr. Crow was very smart .
Indeed , he was the smartest of all the birds .
There was n't anything that old Mr. Crow could n't do or did n't know .
At least he thought there was n't .
All the little meadow people and forest folks began to think so , too , and one after another they got in the habit of coming to him for advice , until pretty soon they were bringing all their affairs to Mr. Crow for settlement .
`` Now for a while Mr. Crow showed great wisdom , and this so pleased Old Mother Nature that she gave him a suit of pure , dazzling white , so that all seeing him might look up to him as a shining example of wisdom and virtue .
Of course all his brothers and sisters , his uncles and aunts , his cousins and all his poor relations at once put on white , that all might know that they were of Mr. Crow 's family .
And of course every one showed them the greatest attention out of respect to old Mr. Crow , so that presently they began to hold their heads very high and to think that because they were related to old Mr. Crow they were a little better than any of the other little meadow people and forest folks .
When they met old Mr. Rabbit they would pretend not to see him , because he wore a white patch on the seat of his trousers .
When old Mr. Woodchuck said ` good morning , ' they would pretend not to hear , for you know Mr. Woodchuck wore a suit of dingy yellow and lived in a hole in the ground .
Old Mr. Toad was ugly to look upon .
Besides , he worked for his living in a garden .
So when they happened to meet him on the road they always turned their backs .
`` For a long time old Mr. Crow himself continued to be a very fine gentleman and to hold the respect of all his neighbors .
He was polite to every one , and to all who came to him he freely gave of his advice as wisely as he knew how .
Of course it was n't long before he knew all about his neighbors and their private affairs .
Now it is n't safe to know too much about your neighbors and what they are doing .
It is dangerous knowledge , very dangerous knowledge indeed , '' said Grandfather Frog solemnly .
`` To be sure it would have been safe enough , '' he continued , `` if Mr. Crow had kept it to himself .
But after a while Mr. Crow became vain .
Yes , Sir , that is just what happened to old Mr. Crow -- he became vain .
He liked to feel that all the little meadow people and forest folks looked up to him with respect , and whenever he saw one of them coming he would brush his white coat , swell himself up and look very important .
After a while he began to brag among his relatives of how much he knew about his neighbors .
Of course they were very much interested , very much interested indeed , and this flattered Mr. Crow so that almost before he knew it he was telling some of the private affairs which had been brought to him for his advice .
Oh , dear me , Mr. Crow began to gossip .
`` Now , gossiping is one of the worst habits in all the world , one of the very worst .
No good ever comes of it .
It just makes trouble , trouble , trouble .
It was so now .
Mr. Crow 's relatives repeated the stories that they heard .
But they took great care that no one should know where they came from .
My , my , my , how trouble did spread on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest !
No one suspected old Mr. Crow , so he was more in demand than ever to straighten matters out .
His neighbors came to him so much that they began to be ashamed to ask his advice for nothing , so they brought him presents so that no more need Mr. Crow hunt for things to eat .
Instead , he lived on the fat of the land without working , and grew fat and lazy .
`` As I have told you , Mr. Crow was smart .
Yes , indeed , he certainly was smart .
It did not take him long to see that the more trouble there was among his neighbors the more they would need his advice , and the more they needed his advice the more presents he would receive .
He grew very crafty .
He would tell tales just to make trouble , and sometimes , when he saw a chance , he would give advice that he knew would make more trouble .
The fact is , old Mr. Crow became a mischief-maker , the very worst kind of a mischief-maker .
And all the time he appeared to be the fine gentleman that he used to be .
He wore his fine white coat as proudly as ever .
`` Matters grew worse and worse .
Never had there been so much trouble on the Green Meadows or so many quarrels in the Green Forest .
Old Mr. Mink never met old Mr. Otter without picking a fight .
Old Mrs. Skunk would n't speak to old Mrs. Coon .
Old Mr. Chipmunk turned his back on his cousin , old Mr. Red Squirrel , whenever their paths crossed .
Even my grandfather a thousand times removed , old Mr. Frog , refused to see his nearest relative , old Mr. Toad .
And all the time old Mr. Crow wore his beautiful suit of white and grew rich and fat , chuckling to himself over his ill-gotten wealth .
`` Then one day came Old Mother Nature to visit the Green Meadows .
It did n't take her long to find that something was wrong , very wrong indeed .
Old Mr. Crow and all his relatives hastened to pay their respects and to tell her how much they appreciated their beautiful white suits .
Old Mr. Crow made a full report of all the troubles that had been brought to him , but he took great care not to let her know that he had had any part in making trouble .
He looked very innocent , oh , very , very innocent , but not once did he look her straight in the face .
`` Now the eyes of Old Mother Nature are wonderfully sharp and they seemed to bore right through old Mr. Crow .
You ca n't fool Old Mother Nature .
No , Sir , you ca n't fool Old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
She listened to all that Mr. Crow had to say .
Then she sent Mr. North Wind to blow his great trumpet and call together all the little people of the Green Meadows and all the little folks of the Green Forest .
`` When they had all come together she told them all that had happened .
She told just how Mr. Crow had started the stories in order to make trouble so that they would seek his advice and bring him presents to pay for it .
When the neighbors of old Mr. Crow heard this they were very angry , and they demanded of Old Mother Nature that Mr. Crow be punished . ''
` Look ! '
said Old Mother Nature , pointing at old Mr. Crow .
` He has been punished already . '
`` Every one turned to look at Mr. Crow .
At first they hardly knew him .
Instead of his suit of spotless white his clothes were black , as black as the blackest night .
So were the clothes of his uncles and aunts , his brothers and sisters , his cousins and all his poor relations .
`` And ever since that long-ago day , when the world was young , the Crows have been mischief-makers and have worn black , that all who look may know that they bring nothing but trouble , '' concluded Grandfather Frog .
`` Thank you !
Thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' shouted the Merry Little Breezes , jumping up to go rock the Redwing babies .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow , flying over their heads with a mouthful of corn he had stolen from Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
XIII STRIPED CHIPMUNK FOOLS PETER RABBIT Peter Rabbit sat at the top of the Crooked Little Path where it starts down the hill .
He was sitting there when jolly , round , red Mr. Sun threw his nightcap off and began his daily climb up into the blue , blue sky .
He saw Old Mother West Wind hurry down from the Purple Hills and turn her Merry Little Breezes out to play on the Green Meadows .
Peter yawned .
The fact is , Peter had been out nearly all night , and now he did n't know just what to do with himself .
Presently he saw Striped Chipmunk whisk up on top of an old log .
As usual the pockets in Striped Chipmunk 's cheeks were stuffed so full that his head looked to be twice as big as it really is , and as usual he seemed to be very busy , very busy indeed .
He stopped just long enough to wink one of his saucy black eyes and shout : `` Good morning , Peter Rabbit ! ''
Then he disappeared as suddenly as he had come .
A few minutes later he was back on the old log , but this time his cheeks were empty .
`` Fine day , Peter Rabbit , '' said Striped Chipmunk , and whisked out of sight .
Peter Rabbit yawned again .
Then he closed his eyes for just a minute .
When he opened them there was Striped Chipmunk on the old log just as before , and the pockets in both cheeks were so full that it seemed as if they would burst .
`` Nice morning to work , Peter Rabbit , '' said Striped Chipmunk , in spite of his full cheeks .
Then he was gone .
Once more Peter Rabbit closed his eyes , but hardly were they shut when Striped Chipmunk shouted : `` Oh , you Peter Rabbit , been out all night ? ''
Peter snapped his eyes open just in time to see the funny little tail of Striped Chipmunk vanish over the side of the old log .
Peter scratched one of his long ears and yawned again , for Peter was growing more and more sleepy .
It was a long yawn , but Peter cut it off right in the middle , for there was Striped Chipmunk back on the old log , and both pockets in his cheeks were stuffed full .
Now Peter Rabbit is as curious as he is lazy , and you know he is very , very lazy .
The fact is , Peter Rabbit 's curiosity is his greatest fault , and it gets him into a great deal of trouble .
It is because of this and the bad , bad habit of meddling in the affairs of other people into which it has led him that Peter Rabbit has such long ears .
For a while Peter watched busy Striped Chipmunk .
Then he began to wonder what Striped Chipmunk could be doing .
The more he wondered the more he felt that he really must know .
The next time Striped Chipmunk appeared on the old log , Peter shouted to him .
`` Hi , Striped Chipmunk , what are you so busy about ?
Why do n't you play a little ? ''
Striped Chipmunk stopped a minute .
`` I 'm building a new house , '' said he .
`` Where ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` That 's telling , '' replied Striped Chipmunk , and whisked out of sight .
Now Peter Rabbit knew where Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Happy Jack Squirrel and Johnny Chuck and Danny Meadow Mouse lived .
He knew all the little paths leading to their homes .
But he did not know where Striped Chipmunk lived .
He never had known .
He thought of this as he watched Striped Chipmunk hurrying back and forth .
The more he thought of it the more curious he grew .
He really must know .
Pretty soon along came Jimmy Skunk , looking for some beetles .
`` Hello , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Do you know where Striped Chipmunk lives ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` No , I do n't know where Striped Chipmunk lives , and I do n't care ; it 's none of my business , '' replied Jimmy Skunk .
`` Have you seen any beetles this morning ? ''
Peter Rabbit had n't seen any beetles , so Jimmy Skunk went on down the Crooked Little Path , still looking for his breakfast .
By and by along came Johnny Chuck .
`` Hello , Johnny Chuck ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , yourself ! ''
said Johnny Chuck .
`` Do you know where Striped Chipmunk lives ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` No , I do n't , for it 's none of my business , '' said Johnny Chuck , and started on down the Crooked Little Path to the Green Meadows .
Then along came Bobby Coon .
`` Hello , Bobby Coon ! ''
said Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello ! ''
replied Bobby Coon shortly , for he too had been out all night and was very sleepy .
`` Do you know where Striped Chipmunk lives ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
`` Do n't know and do n't want to ; it 's none of my business , '' said Bobby Coon even more shortly than before , and started on for his hollow chestnut tree to sleep the long , bright day away .
Peter Rabbit could stand it no longer .
Curiosity had driven away all desire to sleep .
He simply had to know where Striped Chipmunk lived .
`` I 'll just follow Striped Chipmunk and see for myself where he lives , '' said Peter to himself .
So Peter Rabbit hid behind a tuft of grass close by the old log and sat very , very still .
It was a very good place to hide , a very good place .
Probably if Peter Rabbit had not been so brimming over with curiosity he would have succeeded in escaping the sharp eyes of Striped Chipmunk .
But people full of curiosity are forever pricking up their ears to hear things which do not in the least concern them .
It was so with Peter Rabbit .
He was so afraid that he would miss something that both his long ears were standing up straight , and they came above the grass behind which Peter Rabbit was hiding .
Of course Striped Chipmunk saw them the very instant he jumped up on the old log with both pockets in his cheeks stuffed full .
He did n't say a word , but his sharp little eyes twinkled as he jumped off the end of the old log and scurried along under the bushes , for he guessed what Peter Rabbit was hiding for , and though he did not once turn his head he knew that Peter was following him .
You see Peter runs with big jumps , lipperty-lipperty-lip , and people who jump must make a noise .
So , though he tried very hard not to make a sound , Peter was in such a hurry to keep Striped Chipmunk in sight that he really made a great deal of noise .
The more noise Peter made , the more Striped Chipmunk chuckled to himself .
Presently Striped Chipmunk stopped .
Then he sat up very straight and looked this way and looked that way , just as if trying to make sure that no one was watching him .
Then he emptied two pocketfuls of shining yellow gravel on to a nice new mound which he was building .
Once more he sat up and looked this way and looked that way .
Then he scuttled back towards the old log .
As he ran Striped Chipmunk chuckled and chuckled to himself , for all the time he had seen Peter Rabbit lying flat down behind a little bush and knew that Peter Rabbit was thinking to himself how smart he had been to find Striped Chipmunk 's home when no one else knew where it was .
No sooner was Striped Chipmunk out of sight than up jumped Peter Rabbit .
He smiled to himself as he hurried over to the shining mound of yellow gravel .
You see Peter 's curiosity was so great that not once did he think how mean he was to spy on Striped Chipmunk .
`` Now , '' thought Peter , `` I know where Striped Chipmunk lives .
Jimmy Skunk does n't know .
Johnny Chuck does n't know .
Bobby Coon does n't know .
But I know .
Striped Chipmunk may fool all the others , but he ca n't fool me . ''
By this time Peter Rabbit had reached the shining mound of yellow gravel .
At once he began to hunt for the doorway to Striped Chipmunk 's home .
But there was n't any doorway .
No , Sir , there was n't any doorway !
Look as he would , Peter Rabbit could not find the least sign of a doorway .
He walked ` round and ` round the mound and looked here and looked there , but not the least sign of a door was to be seen .
There was nothing but the shining mound of yellow gravel , the green grass , the green bushes and the blue , blue sky , with jolly , round , red Mr. Sun looking down and laughing at him .
Peter Rabbit sat down on Striped Chipmunk 's shining mound of yellow gravel and scratched his left ear with his left hindfoot .
Then he scratched his right ear with his right hindfoot .
It was very perplexing .
Indeed , it was so perplexing that Peter quite forgot that Striped Chipmunk would soon be coming back .
Suddenly right behind Peter 's back Striped Chipmunk spoke .
`` How do you like my sand pile , Peter Rabbit ?
Do n't you think it is a pretty nice sand pile ? ''
asked Striped Chipmunk politely .
And all the time he was chuckling away to himself .
Peter was so surprised that he very nearly fell backward off the shining mound of yellow gravel .
For a minute he did n't know what to say .
Then he found his tongue .
-LSB- Illustration : Peter was so surprised that he nearly fell backward . -RSB-
`` Oh , '' said Peter Rabbit , apparently in the greatest surprise , `` is this your sand pile , Striped Chipmunk ?
It 's a very nice sand pile indeed .
Is this where you live ? ''
Striped Chipmunk shook his head .
`` No , oh , my , no ! ''
said he .
`` I would n't think of living in such an exposed place !
My goodness , no indeed !
Everybody knows where this is .
I 'm building a new home , you know , and of course I do n't want the gravel to clutter up my dooryard .
So I 've brought it all here .
Makes a nice sand pile , does n't it ?
You are very welcome to sit on my sand pile whenever you feel like it , Peter Rabbit .
It 's a good place to take a sun bath ; I hope you 'll come often . ''
All the time Striped Chipmunk was saying this his sharp little eyes twinkled with mischief and he chuckled softly to himself .
Peter Rabbit was more curious than ever .
`` Where is your new home , Striped Chipmunk ? ''
he asked .
`` Not far from here ; come call on me , '' said Striped Chipmunk .
Then with a jerk of his funny little tail he was gone .
It seemed as if the earth must have swallowed him up .
Striped Chipmunk can move very quickly , and he had whisked out of sight in the bushes before Peter Rabbit could turn his head to watch him .
Peter looked behind every bush and under every stone , but nowhere could he find Striped Chipmunk or a sign of Striped Chipmunk 's home , excepting the shining mound of yellow gravel .
At last Peter pushed his inquisitive nose right into the doorway of Bumble the Bee .
Now Bumble the Bee happened to be at home , and being very short of temper , he thrust a sharp little needle into the inquisitive nose of Peter Rabbit .
`` Oh !
oh !
oh ! ''
shrieked Peter , clapping both hands to his nose , and started off home as fast as he could go .
And though he did n't know it and does n't know it to this day , he went right across the doorstep of Striped Chipmunk 's home .
So Peter still wonders and wonders where Striped Chipmunk lives , and no one can tell him , not even the Merry Little Breezes .
You see there is not even a sign of a path leading to his doorway , for Striped Chipmunk never goes or comes twice the same way .
His doorway is very small , just large enough for him to squeeze through , and it is so hidden in the grass that often the Merry Little Breezes skip right over it without seeing it .
Every grain of sand and gravel from the fine long halls and snug chambers Striped Chipmunk has built underground he has carefully carried in the pockets in his cheeks to the shining mound of yellow gravel found by Peter Rabbit .
Not so much as a grain is dropped on his doorstep to let his secret out .
So in and out among the little meadow people skips Striped Chipmunk all the long day , and not one has found out where he lives .
But no one really cares excepting Peter Rabbit , who is still curious .
XIV JERRY MUSKRAT 'S NEW HOUSE Jerry Muskrat would n't play .
Billy Mink had tried to get him to .
Little Joe Otter had tried to get him to .
The Merry Little Breezes had tried to get him to .
It was of no use , no use at all .
Jerry Muskrat would n't play .
`` Come on , Jerry , come on play with us , '' they begged all together .
But Jerry shook his head .
`` Ca n't , '' said he .
`` Why not ?
Wo n't your mother let you ? ''
demanded Billy Mink , making a long dive into the Smiling Pool .
He was up again in time to hear Jerry reply : `` Yes , my mother will let me .
It is n't that .
It 's because we are going to have a long winter and a cold winter and I must prepare for it . ''
Every one laughed , every one except Grandfather Frog , who sat on his big green lily-pad watching for foolish green flies .
`` Pooh ! ''
exclaimed Little Joe Otter .
`` A lot you know about it , Jerry Muskrat !
Ho , ho , ho !
A lot you know about it !
Are you clerk of the weather ?
It is only fall now -- what can you know about what the winter will be ?
Oh come , Jerry Muskrat , do n't pretend to be so wise .
I can swim twice across the Smiling Pool while you are swimming across once -- come on ! ''
Jerry Muskrat shook his head .
`` Have n't time , '' said he .
`` I tell you we are going to have a long winter and a hard winter , and I 've got to prepare for it .
When it comes you 'll remember what I have told you . ''
Little Joe Otter made a wry face and slid down his slippery slide , splash into the Smiling Pool , throwing water all over Jerry Muskrat , who was sitting on the end of a log close by .
Jerry shook the water from his coat , which is water-proof , you know .
Everybody laughed , that is , everybody but Grandfather Frog .
He did not even smile .
`` Chug-a-rum ! ''
said Grandfather Frog , who is very wise .
`` Jerry Muskrat knows .
If Jerry says that we are going to have a long cold winter you may be sure that he knows what he is talking about . ''
Billy Mink turned a back somersault into the Smiling Pool so close to the big green lily-pad on which Grandfather Frog sat that the waves almost threw Grandfather Frog into the water .
`` Pooh , '' said Billy Mink , `` how can Jerry Muskrat know anything more about it than we do ? ''
Grandfather Frog looked at Billy Mink severely .
He does not like Billy Mink , who has been known to gobble up some of Grandfather Frog 's children when he thought that no one was looking .
`` Old Mother Nature was here and told him , '' said Grandfather Frog gruffly .
`` Oh ! ''
exclaimed Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter together .
`` That 's different , '' and they looked at Jerry Muskrat with greater respect .
`` How are you going to prepare for the long cold winter , Jerry Muskrat ? ''
asked one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` I 'm going to build a house , a big , warm house , '' replied Jerry Muskrat , `` and I 'm going to begin right now . ''
-LSB- Illustration : `` I 'm going , to build a house , '' replied Jerry Muskrat . -RSB-
Splash !
Jerry had disappeared into the Smiling Pool .
Presently , over on the far side where the water was shallow , it began to bubble and boil as if a great fuss was going on underneath the surface .
Jerry Muskrat had begun work .
The water grew muddy , very muddy indeed , so muddy that Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink climbed out on the Big Rock in disgust .
When finally Jerry Muskrat swam out to rest on the end of a log they shouted to him angrily .
`` Hi , Jerry Muskrat , you 're spoiling our swimming water !
What are you doing anyway ? ''
`` I 'm digging for the foundations for my new house , and it is n't your water any more than it 's mine , '' replied Jerry Muskrat , drawing a long breath before he disappeared under water again .
The water grew muddier and muddier , until even Grandfather Frog began to look annoyed .
Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter started off up the Laughing Brook , where the water was clear .
The Merry Little Breezes danced away across the Green Meadows to play with Johnny Chuck , and Grandfather Frog settled himself comfortably on his big green lily-pad to dream of the days when the world was young and the frogs ruled the world .
But Jerry Muskrat worked steadily , digging and piling sods in a circle for the foundation of his house .
In the center he dug out a chamber from which he planned a long tunnel to his secret burrow far away in the bank , and another to the deepest part of the Smiling Pool , where even in the coldest weather the water would not freeze to the bottom as it would do in the shallow places .
All day long while Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and the Merry Little Breezes and Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse and all the other little meadow people were playing or lazily taking sun naps , Jerry Muskrat worked steadily .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun , looking down from the blue , blue sky , smiled to see how industrious the little fellow was .
That evening , when Old Mother West Wind hurried across the Green Meadows on her way to her home behind the Purple Hills , she found Jerry Muskrat sitting on the end of a log eating his supper of fresh-water clams .
Showing just above the water on the edge of the Smiling Pool was the foundation of Jerry Muskrat 's new house .
The next morning Jerry was up and at work even before Old Mother West Wind , who is a very early riser , came down from the Purple Hills .
Of course every one was interested to see how the new house was coming along and to offer advice .
`` Are you going to build it all of mud ? ''
asked one of the Merry Little Breezes .
`` No , '' said Jerry Muskrat , `` I 'm going to use green alder twigs and willow shoots and bulrush stalks .
It 's going to be two stories high , with a room down deep under water and another room up above with a beautiful bed of grass and soft moss . ''
`` That will be splendid ! ''
cried the Merry Little Breezes .
Then one of them had an idea .
He whispered to the other Little Breezes .
They all giggled and clapped their hands .
Then they hurried off to find Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter .
They even hunted up Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse .
Jerry Muskrat was so busy that he paid no attention to any one or anything else .
He was attending strictly to the business of building a house that would keep him warm and comfortable when the long cold winter should freeze up tight the Smiling Pool .
Pretty soon he was ready for some green twigs to use in the walls of the new house .
He swam across the Smiling Pool to the Laughing Brook , where the alders grow , to cut the green twigs which he needed .
What do you think he found when he got there ?
Why , the nicest little pile of green twigs , all cut ready to use , and Johnny Chuck cutting more .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat , '' said Johnny Chuck .
`` I 've cut all these green twigs for your new house .
I hope you can use them . ''
Jerry was so surprised that he hardly knew what to say .
He thanked Johnny Chuck , and with the bundle of green twigs swam back to his new house .
When he had used the last one he swam across to the bulrushes on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
`` Good morning , Jerry Muskrat , '' said some one almost hidden by a big pile of bulrushes , all nicely cut .
`` I want to help build the new house . ''
It was Danny Meadow Mouse .
Jerry Muskrat was more surprised than ever .
`` Oh , thank you , Danny Meadow Mouse , thank you ! ''
he said , and pushing the pile of bulrushes before him he swam back to his new house .
When he had used the rushes , Jerry wanted some young willow shoots , so he started for the place where the willows grow .
Before he reached them he heard some one shouting : `` Hi , Jerry Muskrat !
See the pile of willow shoots I 've cut for your new house . ''
It was Peter Rabbit , who is never known to work .
Jerry Muskrat was more surprised than ever and so pleased that all he could say was , `` Thank you , thank you , Peter Rabbit ! ''
Back to the new house he swam with the pile of young willow shoots .
When he had placed them to suit him he sat up on the walls of his house to rest .
He looked across the Smiling Pool .
Then he rubbed his eyes and looked again .
Could it be -- yes , it certainly was a bundle of green alder twigs floating straight across the Smiling Pool towards the new house !
When they got close to him Jerry spied a sharp little black nose pushing them along , and back of the little black nose twinkled two little black eyes .
`` What are you doing with those alder twigs , Billy Mink ? ''
cried Jerry .
`` Bringing them for your new house , '' shouted Billy Mink , popping out from behind the bundle of alder twigs .
And that was the beginning of the busiest day that the Smiling Pool had ever known .
Billy Mink brought more alder twigs and willow shoots and bulrushes as fast as Johnny Chuck and Peter Rabbit and Danny Meadow Mouse could cut them .
Little Joe Otter brought sods and mud to hold them in place .
Thick and high grew the walls of the new house .
In the upper part Jerry built the nicest little room , and lined it with grass and soft moss , so that he could sleep warm and comfortable through the long cold winter .
Over all he built a strong , thick roof beautifully rounded .
An hour before it was time for Old Mother West Wind to come for the Merry Little Breezes , Jerry Muskrat 's new house was finished .
Then such a frolic as there was in and around the Smiling Pool !
Little Joe Otter made a new slippery slide down one side of the roof .
Billy Mink said that the new house was better to dive off of than the Big Rock .
Then the two of them , with Jerry Muskrat , cut up all sorts of monkey-shines in the water , while Johnny Chuck , Peter Rabbit , Danny Meadow Mouse and the Merry Little Breezes danced on the shore and shouted themselves hoarse .
When at last jolly , round , red Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the black shadows crept ever so softly out across the Smiling Pool , Jerry Muskrat sat on the roof of his house eating his supper of fresh-water clams .
He was very tired , was Jerry Muskrat , very tired indeed , but he was very happy , for now he had no fear of the long cold winter .
Best of all his heart was full of love -- love for his little playmates of the Smiling Pool and the Green Meadows .
XV PETER RABBIT 'S BIG COUSIN Jumper the Hare had come down out of the Great Woods to the Green Meadows .
He is first cousin to Peter Rabbit , you know , and he looks just like Peter , only he is twice as big .
His legs are twice as long and he can jump twice as far .
All the little meadow people were very polite to Jumper the Hare , all but Reddy Fox , who is never polite to any one unless he has a favor to ask .
Peter Rabbit was very proud of his big cousin , very proud indeed .
He showed Jumper the Hare all the secret paths in the Green Forest and across the Green Meadows .
He took him to the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook , and everywhere Jumper the Hare was met with the greatest politeness .
But Jumper the Hare was timid , oh , very timid indeed .
Every few jumps he sat up very straight to look this way and look that way , and to listen with his long ears .
He jumped nervously at the least little noise .
Yes , Sir , Jumper the Hare certainly was very timid .
`` He 's a coward ! ''
sneered Reddy Fox .
And Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter and Jimmy Skunk , even Johnny Chuck , seeing Jumper the Hare duck and dodge at the shadow of Blacky the Crow , agreed with Reddy Fox .
Still , they were polite to him for the sake of Peter Rabbit and because Jumper really was such a big , handsome fellow .
But behind his back they laughed at him .
Even little Danny Meadow Mouse laughed .
Now it happens that Jumper the Hare had lived all his life in the Great Woods , where Mr. Panther and Tufty the Lynx and fierce Mr. Fisher were always hunting him , but where the shadows were deep and where there were plenty of places to hide .
Indeed , his whole life had been a game of hide and seek , and always he had been the one sought .
So on the Green Meadows , where hiding places were few and far between , Jumper the Hare was nervous .
But the little meadow people , not knowing this , thought him a coward , and while they were polite to him they had little to do with him , for no one really likes a coward .
Peter Rabbit , however , could see no fault in his big cousin .
He showed him where Farmer Brown 's tender young carrots grow , and the shortest way to the cabbage patch .
He made him acquainted with all his own secret hiding places in the old brier patch .
Then one bright sunny morning something happened .
Johnny Chuck saw it .
Jimmy Skunk saw it .
Happy Jack Squirrel saw it .
Sammy Jay saw it .
And they told all the others .
Very early that morning Reddy Fox had started out to hunt for his breakfast .
He was tiptoeing softly along the edge of the Green Forest looking for wood mice when whom should he see but Peter Rabbit .
Peter was getting his breakfast in the sweet-clover bed , just beyond the old brier patch .
Reddy Fox squatted down behind a bush to watch .
Peter Rabbit looked plump and fat .
Reddy Fox licked his chops .
`` Peter Rabbit would make a better breakfast than wood mice , a very much better breakfast , '' said Reddy Fox to himself .
Beside , he owed Peter Rabbit a grudge .
He had not forgotten how Peter had tried to save his little brother from Reddy by bringing up Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox licked his chops again .
He looked this way and he looked that way , but he could see no one watching .
Old Mother West Wind had gone about her business .
The Merry Little Breezes were over at the Smiling Pool to pay their respects to Grandfather Frog .
Even jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was behind a cloud .
From his hiding place Reddy could not see Johnny Chuck or Jimmy Skunk or Happy Jack Squirrel or Sammy Jay .
`` No one will know what becomes of Peter Rabbit , '' thought Reddy Fox .
Very cautiously Reddy Fox crept out from behind the bush into the tall meadow grass .
Flat on his stomach he crawled inch by inch .
Every few minutes he stopped to listen and to peep over at the sweet-clover bed .
There sat Peter Rabbit , eating , eating , eating the tender young clover as if he had n't a care in the world but to fill his little round stomach .
Nearer and nearer crawled Reddy Fox .
Now he was almost near enough to spring .
`` Thump , thump , thump ! ''
The sound came from the brier patch .
`` Thump , thump ! ''
This was Peter Rabbit hitting the ground with one of his hind feet .
He had stopped eating and was sitting up very straight .
`` Thump , thump , thump ! ''
came the signal from the brier patch .
`` Thump , thump ! ''
responded Peter Rabbit , and started to run .
With a snarl Reddy Fox sprang after him .
Then the thing happened .
Reddy Fox caught a glimpse of something going over him and at the same time he received a blow that rolled him over and over in the grass .
In an instant he was on his feet and had whirled about , his eyes yellow with anger .
There right in front of him sat Jumper the Hare .
Reddy Fox could hardly believe his own eyes !
Could it be that Jumper the Hare , the coward , had dared to strike him such a blow ?
Reddy forgot all about Peter Rabbit .
With a snarl he rushed at Jumper the Hare .
Then it happened again .
As light as a feather Jumper leaped over him , and as he passed , those big hind legs , at which Reddy Fox had laughed , came back with a kick that knocked all the breath out of Reddy Fox .
Reddy Fox was furious .
Twice more he sprang , and twice more he was sent sprawling , with the breath knocked out of his body .
That was enough .
Tucking his tail between his legs , Reddy Fox sneaked away towards the Green Forest .
As he ran he heard Peter Rabbit thumping in the old brier patch .
`` I 'm safe , '' signaled Peter Rabbit .
`` Thump , thump , thump , thump !
The coast is clear , '' replied Jumper the Hare .
Reddy Fox looked back from the edge of the Green Forest and gnashed his teeth .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare were rubbing noses and contentedly eating tender young clover leaves .
`` Now who 's the coward ? ''
jeered Sammy Jay from the top of the Lone Pine .
Reddy Fox said nothing , but slunk out of sight .
Late that afternoon he sat on the hill at the top of the Crooked Little Path , and looked down on the Green Meadows .
Over near the Smiling Pool were gathered all the little meadow people having the jolliest time in the world .
While he watched they joined hands in a big circle and began to dance , Johnny Chuck , Jimmy Skunk , Bobby Coon , Little Joe Otter , Billy Mink , Happy Jack Squirrel , Striped Chipmunk , Danny Meadow Mouse , Peter Rabbit , Spotty the Turtle , even Grandfather Frog and old Mr. Toad .
And in the middle , sitting very straight , was Jumper the Hare .
And since that day Peter Rabbit has been prouder than ever of his big cousin , Jumper the Hare , for now no one calls him a coward .
THE END * * * * * BOOKS BY THORNTON W. BURGESS BEDTIME STORY-BOOKS 1 .
THE ADVENTURES OF REDDY FOX 2 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JOHNNY CHUCK 3 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PETER COTTONTAIL 4 .
THE ADVENTURES OF UNC ' BILLY POSSUM 5 .
THE ADVENTURES OF MR. MOCKER 6 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JERRY MUSKRAT 7 .
THE ADVENTURES OF DANNY MEADOW MOUSE 8 .
THE ADVENTURES OF GRANDFATHER FROG 9 .
THE ADVENTURES OF CHATTERER , THE RED SQUIRREL 10 .
THE ADVENTURES OF SAMMY JAY 11 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BUSTER BEAR 12 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MR. TOAD 13 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PRICKLY PORKY 14 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OLD MAN COYOTE 15 .
THE ADVENTURES OF PADDY THE BEAVER 16 .
THE ADVENTURES OF POOR MRS. QUACK 17 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOBBY COON 18 .
THE ADVENTURES OF JIMMY SKUNK 19 .
THE ADVENTURES OF BOB WHITE 20 .
THE ADVENTURES OF OL' MISTAH BUZZARD MOTHER WEST WIND SERIES 1 .
OLD MOTHER WEST WIND 2 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S CHILDREN 3 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S ANIMAL FRIENDS 4 .
MOTHER WEST WIND 'S NEIGHBORS 5 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHY '' STORIES 6 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` HOW '' STORIES 7 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHEN '' STORIES 8 .
MOTHER WEST WIND `` WHERE '' STORIES GREEN MEADOW SERIES 1 .
HAPPY JACK 2 .
MRS. PETER RABBIT 3 .
BOWSER THE HOUND 4 .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mrs._Peter_Rabbit.txt.out
CHAPTER I PETER RABBIT LOSES HIS APPETITE Good appetite , you 'll always find , Depends upon your state of mind .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit had lost his appetite .
Now when Peter Rabbit loses his appetite , something is very wrong indeed with him .
Peter has boasted that he can eat any time and all the time .
In fact , the two things that Peter thinks most about are his stomach and satisfying his curiosity , and nearly all of the scrapes that Peter has gotten into have been because of those two things .
So when Peter loses his appetite or his curiosity , there is surely something the matter with him .
Ever since Old Man Coyote had come to live on the Green Meadows , Peter had been afraid to go very far from the dear Old Briar-patch where he makes his home , and where he always feels safe .
Now there was n't any reason why he should go far from the dear Old Briar-patch .
There was plenty to eat in it and all around it , for sweet clover grew almost up to the very edge of it , and you know Peter is very fond of sweet clover .
So there was plenty for Peter to eat without running any risk of danger .
With nothing to do but eat and sleep , Peter should have grown fat and contented .
But he did n't .
Now that is just the way with a lot of people .
The more they have and the less they have to worry about , the more discontented they become , and at last they are positively unhappy .
There was little Danny Meadow Mouse , living out on the Green Meadows ; he was happy all the livelong day , and yet he had no safe castle like the dear Old Briar-patch where he could always be safe .
Every minute of every day Danny had to keep his eyes wide open and his wits working their very quickest , for any minute he was likely to be in danger .
Old Man Coyote or Reddy Fox or Granny Fox or Digger the Badger or Mr. Blacksnake was likely to come creeping through the grass any time , and they are always hungry for a fat Meadow Mouse .
And as if that were n't worry enough , Danny had to watch the sky , too , for Old Whitetail the Marsh Hawk , or his cousin Redtail , or Blacky the Crow , each of whom would be glad of a Meadow Mouse dinner .
Yet in spite of all this , Danny was happy and never once lost his appetite .
But Peter Rabbit , with nothing to worry him so long as he stayed in the Old Briar-patch , could n't eat and grew more and more unhappy .
`` I do n't know what 's the matter with me .
I really do n't know what 's the matter with me , '' said Peter , as he turned up his nose at a patch of sweet , tender young clover .
`` I think I 'll go and cut some new paths through the Old Briar-patch . ''
Now , though he did n't know it , that was the very best thing he could do .
It gave him something to think about .
For two or three days he was very busy cutting new paths , and his appetite came back .
But when he had made all the paths he wanted , and there was nothing else to do , he lost his appetite again .
He just sat still all day long and moped and thought and thought and thought .
The trouble with Peter Rabbit 's thinking was that it was all about himself and how unhappy he was .
Of course , the more he thought about this , the more unhappy he grew .
`` If I only had some one to talk to , I 'd feel better , '' said he to himself .
That reminded him of Johnny Chuck and what good times they used to have together when Johnny lived on the Green Meadows .
Then he thought of how happy Johnny seemed with his little family in his new home in the Old Orchard , in spite of all the worries his family made him .
And right then Peter found out what was the matter with him .
`` I believe I 'm just lonesome , '' said Peter .
`` Yes , Sir , that 's what 's the matter with me .
`` It is n't good to be alone , I 've often heard my mother say .
It makes one selfish , grouchy , cross , And quite unhappy all the day .
One needs to think of other folks , And not of just one 's self alone , To find the truest happiness , And joy and real content to own .
`` Now that I 've found out what is the trouble with me , the question is , what am I going to do about it ? ''
CHAPTER II PETER RABBIT PLANS A JOURNEY It 's a long jump that makes no landing .
Peter Rabbit .
`` The trouble with me is that I 'm lonesome , '' repeated Peter Rabbit as he sat in the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` Yes , Sir , that 's the only thing that 's wrong with me .
I 'm just tired of myself , and that 's why I 've lost my appetite .
And now I know what 's the matter , what am I going to do about it ?
If I were sure , absolutely sure , that Old Man Coyote meant what he said about our being friends , I 'd start out this very minute to call on all my old friends .
My , my , my , it seems an age since I visited the Smiling Pool and saw Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter !
Mr. Coyote sounded as if he really meant to leave me alone , but , but -- well , perhaps he did mean it when he saw me sitting here safe among the brambles , but if I should meet him out in the open , he might change his mind and -- oh , dear , his teeth are terrible long and sharp ! ''
Peter sat a little longer , thinking and thinking .
Then a bright idea popped into his head .
He kicked up his heels .
`` I 'll do it , '' said he .
`` I 'll make a journey !
That 's what I 'll do !
I 'll make a journey and see the Great World .
`` By staying here and sitting still I 'm sure I 'll simply grow quite ill .
A change of scene is what I need To be from all my trouble freed . ''
Of course if Peter had really stopped to think the matter over thoroughly he would have known that running away from one kind of trouble is almost sure to lead to other troubles .
But Peter is one of those who does his thinking afterward .
Peter is what is called impulsive .
That is , he does things and then thinks about them later , and often wishes he had n't done them .
So now the minute the idea of making a journey popped into his head , he made up his mind that he would do it , and that was all there was to it .
You see , Peter never looks ahead .
If he could get rid of the trouble that bothered him now , which , you know , was nothing but lonesomeness , he would n't worry about the troubles he might get into later .
Now the minute Peter made up his mind to make a journey , he began to feel better .
His lost appetite returned , and the first thing he did was to eat a good meal of sweet clover .
`` Let me see , '' said he , as he filled his big stomach , `` I believe I 'll visit the Old Pasture .
It 's a long way off and I 've never been there , but I 've heard Sammy Jay say that it 's a very wonderful place , and I do n't believe it is any more dangerous than the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , now that Old Man Coyote and Reddy and Granny Fox are all living here .
I 'll start tonight when I am sure that Old Man Coyote is nowhere around , and I wo n't tell a soul where I am going . ''
So Peter settled himself and tried to sleep the long day away , but his mind was so full of the long journey he was going to make that he could n't sleep much , and when he did have a nap , he dreamed of wonderful sights and adventures out in the Great World .
At last he saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun drop down to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
Old Mother West Wind came hurrying back from her day 's work and gathered her children , the Merry Little Breezes , into her big bag , and then she , too , started for her home behind the Purple Hills .
A little star came out and winked at Peter , and then way over on the edge of the Green Forest he heard Old Man Coyote laugh .
Peter grinned .
That was what he had been waiting for , since it meant that Old Man Coyote was so far away that there was nothing to fear from him .
Peter hopped out from the dear , safe Old Briar-patch , looked this way and that way , and then , with his heart in his mouth , started towards the Old Pasture as fast as he could go , lipperty -- lipperty -- lip .
CHAPTER III HOOTY THE OWL CHANGES HIS HUNTING GROUNDS A full stomach makes a pleasant Day ; An empty stomach turns the whole world gray .
Peter Rabbit .
Hooty the owl sat on the tip-top of a tall dead tree in the Green Forest while the Black Shadows crept swiftly among the trees .
He was talking to himself .
It would n't have done for him to have spoken aloud what he was saying to himself , for then the little people in feathers and fur on whom he likes to make his dinner would have heard him and known just where he was .
So he said it to himself , and sat so still that he looked for all the world like a part of the tree on which he was sitting .
What he was saying was this : `` Towhit , towhoo !
Towhit , towhoo !
Will some one tell me what to do ?
My children have an appetite That keeps me hunting all the night , And though their stomachs I may stuff They never seem to have enough .
Towhit , towhoo !
Towhit , towhoo !
Will some one tell me what to do ? ''
When it was dark enough he gave his fierce hunting call -- `` Whooo-hoo - hoo , whoo-hoo ! ''
Now that is a terrible sound in the dark woods , very terrible indeed to the little forest people , because it sounds so fierce and hungry .
It makes them jump and shiver , and that is just what Hooty wants them to do , for in doing it one of them is likely to make just the least scratching with his claws , or to rustle a leaf .
If he does , Hooty , whose ears are very , very wonderful , is almost sure to hear , and with his great yellow eyes see him , and then -- Hooty has his dinner .
The very night when Peter Rabbit started on his journey to the Old Pasture , Hooty the Owl had made up his mind that something had got to be done to get more food for those hungry babies of his up in the big hemlock-tree in the darkest corner of the Green Forest .
Hunting was very poor , very poor indeed , and Hooty was at his wits ' end to know what he should do .
He had hooted and hooted in vain in the Green Forest , and he had sailed back and forth over the Green Meadows like a great black shadow without seeing so much as a single Mouse .
`` It 's all because of Old Man Coyote and Granny and Reddy Fox , '' said Hooty angrily .
`` They 've spoiled the hunting .
Yes , Sir , that 's just what they have done !
If I expect to feed those hungry babies of mine , I must find new hunting grounds .
I believe I 'll go up to the Old Pasture .
Perhaps I 'll have better luck up there . ''
So Hooty the Owl spread his broad wings and started for the Old Pasture just a little while after Peter Rabbit had started for the same place .
Of course he did n't know that Peter was on his way there , and of course Peter did n't know that Hooty even thought of the Old Pasture .
If he had , perhaps he would have thought twice before starting .
Anyway , he would have kept a sharper watch on the sky .
But as it was his thoughts were all of Old Man Coyote and Granny Fox , and that is where Peter made a very grave mistake , a very grave mistake indeed , as he was soon to find out .
CHAPTEE IV THE SHADOW WITH SHARP CLAWS Now what 's the use , pray tell me this , When all is said and done ; A thousand things and one to learn And then forget the one ?
For when that one alone you need , And nothing else will do , What good are all the thousand then ?
I do not see ; do you ?
Peter Rabbit .
Forgetting leads to more trouble than almost anything under the sun .
Peter Rabbit knew this .
Of course he knew it .
Peter had had many a narrow escape just from forgetting something .
He knew just as well as you know that he might just as well not learn a thing as to learn it and then forget it .
But Peter is such a happy-go-lucky little fellow that he is very apt to forget , and forgetting leads him into all kinds of difficulties , just as it does most folks .
Now Peter had learned when he was a very little fellow that when he went out at night , he must watch out quite as sharply for Hooty the Owl as for either Granny or Reddy Fox , and usually he did .
But the night he started to make a journey to the Old Pasture , his mind was so full of Old Man Coyote and Granny and Reddy Fox that he wholly forgot Hooty the Owl .
So , as he scampered across the Green Meadows , lipperty -- lipperty -- lip , as fast as he could go , with his long ears and his big eyes and his wobbly nose all watching out for danger on the ground , not once did he think that there might be danger from the sky above him .
It was a moonlight night , and Peter was sharp enough to keep in the shadows whenever he could .
He would scamper as fast as he knew how from one shadow to another and then sit down in the blackest part of each shadow to get his breath , and to look and listen and so make sure that no one was following him .
The nearer he got to the Old Pasture , the safer he felt from Old Man Coyote and Granny and Reddy Fox .
When he scampered across the patches of moonshine his heart did n't come up in his mouth the way it had at first .
He grew bolder and bolder .
Once or twice he stopped for a mouthful of sweet clover .
He was tired , for he had come a long way , but he was almost to the Old Pasture now , and it looked very dark and safe , for it was covered with bushes and brambles .
`` Plenty of hiding places there , '' thought Peter .
`` It really looks as safe as the dear Old Briar-patch .
No one will ever think to look for me way off here . ''
Just then he spied a patch of sweet clover out in the moonlight .
His mouth began to water .
`` I 'll just fill my stomach before I go into the Old Pasture , for there may not be any clover there , '' said Peter .
`` You 'd better be careful , Peter Rabbit , '' said a wee warning voice inside him .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Peter .
`` There 's nothing to be afraid of way up here ! ''
A shadow drifted across the sweet clover patch .
Peter saw it .
`` That must be made by a cloud crossing the moon , '' said Peter , and he was so sure of it that he did n't even look up to see , but boldly hopped out to fill his stomach .
Just as he reached the patch of clover , the shadow drifted over it again .
Then all in a flash a terrible thought entered Peter 's head .
He did n't stop to look up .
He suddenly sprang sideways , and even as he did so , sharp claws tore his coat and hurt him dreadfully .
He twisted and dodged and jumped and turned this way and that way , and all the time the shadow followed him .
Once again sharp claws tore his coat and made him squeal with pain .
-LSB- Illustration : HE DODGED AND JUMPED , AND ALL THE TIME THE SHADOW FOLLOWED HIM . -RSB-
At last , when his breath was almost gone , he reached the edge of the Old Pasture and dived under a friendly old bramble-bush .
`` Oh , '' sobbed Peter , `` I forgot all about Hooty the Owl !
Besides , I did n't suppose he ever came way up here . ''
CHAPTER V IN THE OLD PASTURE Brambles never scratch those who understand and are considerate of them .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit sat under a friendly bramble-bush on the edge of the Old Pasture and panted for breath , while his heart went pit-a-pat , pit-a - pat , as if it would thump its way right through his sides .
Peter had had a terrible fright .
There were long tears in his coat , and he smarted and ached dreadfully where the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl had torn him .
And there he was in a strange place , not knowing which way to turn , for you know he never had visited the Old Pasture before .
But Peter had had so many narrow escapes in his life that he had learned not to worry over dangers that are past .
Peter is what wise men call a phi-los-o-pher .
That is a big word , but its meaning is very simple .
A philosopher is one who believes that it is foolish to think about things that have happened , except to learn some lesson from them , and that the best thing to do is to make the most of the present .
Peter had learned his lesson .
He was sure of that .
`` I never , never will forget again to watch out for Hooty the Owl , '' said he to himself , as he nursed his wounds , `` and so perhaps it is a good thing that he so nearly caught me this time .
If he had n't , I might have forgotten all about him some time when he could catch me .
I certainly would n't have watched out for him way up here , for I did n't think he ever came up to the Old Pasture .
But now I know he does , Mr. Hooty 'll have to be smarter than he 's ever been before to catch me napping again .
My , how I do smart and ache !
I know now just how Danny Meadow Mouse felt that time Hooty caught him and dropped him into the Old Briar-patch .
Ouch !
Well , as my mother used to say : ` Yesterday has gone away ; Make the most of just to-day . '
Here I am up in the Old Pasture , and the question is , what shall I do next ? ''
Peter felt a queer little thrill as he peeped out from under the friendly bramble-bush .
Very strange and wonderful it seemed .
Of course he could n't see very far , because the Old Pasture was all overgrown with bushes and briars , and they made the very blackest of black shadows in the moonlight .
Peter wondered what dangers might be awaiting him there , but somehow he did n't feel much afraid .
No , Sir , he did n't feel much afraid .
You see those briars looked good to him , for briars are always friendly to Peter and unfriendly to those who would do harm to Peter .
So when he saw them , he felt almost at home .
Peter drew a long breath .
Then he cried `` Ouch ! ''
You see , he had forgotten for a minute how sore he was .
He was eager to explore this new wonderland , for Sammy Jay had told him wonderful tales about it , and he knew that here old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox had found safety when Farmer Brown 's boy had hunted for them so hard on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
He felt sure that there must be the most splendid hiding - places , and it seemed as if he certainly must start right out to see them , for you know Peter is very , very curious .
But the first move he made brought another `` Ouch '' from him , and he made up a wry face .
`` I guess the best thing for me to do is to stay right where I am , '' said he , `` for here I am safe under this friendly old bramble . ''
So with a sigh Peter settled down to make himself as comfortable as he could , and once , as far , far away on the Green Meadows he heard the voice of Old Man Coyote , Peter even smiled .
`` I have n't anything to fear from him , anyway , for he 'll never think of coming way up here , '' said he .
CHAPTER VI PETER RABBIT IS STILL LONESOME A sympathetic word or two A wond ` rous help is , when you 're blue .
So pity him who sits alone His aches and troubles to bemoan .
Peter Rabbit .
All the rest of that night Peter sat under a friendly old bramble-bush on the edge of the Old Pasture and nursed the sore places made by the claws of Hooty the Owl .
At last jolly , round , red Mr. Sun began to climb up in the blue , blue sky , just as he does every day .
Peter looked up at him , and he felt sure that Mr. Sun winked at him .
Somehow it made him feel better .
The fact is , Peter was beginning to feel just a wee , wee bit homesick .
It is bad enough to be in a strange place alone , but to be sore and to smart and ache as Peter did makes that lonesome feeling a whole lot harder to bear .
It is dreadful not to have any one to speak to , but to look around and not see a single thing you have ever seen before , -- my , my , my , it certainly does give you a strange , sinking feeling way down inside !
Before that long night was over Peter felt as if his heart had gone way down to his very toes .
Yes , Sir , that 's the way he felt .
Every time he moved at all he cried `` Ouch ! ''
He just knew that he was growing more stiff and sore every minute .
Then he began to wonder what he should do for something to eat , for he was in a strange place , you remember .
And that made him think of all his private little paths through the dear Old Briar-patch , the little paths he had made all himself , and which no one used but himself , excepting Danny Meadow Mouse when he came for a visit .
`` Perhaps I shall never , never see them again , '' moaned Peter , and two big tears filled his eyes and were just ready to drop .
At that moment he looked up and saw jolly , round , red Mr. Sun wink .
Peter tried to wink back , and that made the two tears fall .
But there were no more tears to follow .
You see that wink had made all the difference in the world , Peter 's heart had jumped right back where it belonged .
Mr. Sun was one of his oldest friends and you know When trouble comes , a friendly face Makes bright the very darkest place .
And so , just as he made bright all the Old Pasture , Mr. Sun also made bright the dark little corners in Peter 's heart just because he was an old friend .
To be sure Peter was still lonesome , but it was a different kind of lonesomeness .
He had n't anybody to talk to , which is always a dreadful thing to Peter , but he had only to look up to catch a friendly wink , and somehow that not only made him feel better inside but it seemed to make his aches and smarts better too .
CHAPTER VII PETER FINDS TRACKS Every day is different from every other day , And always there is something new to see along the way .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit had sat still just as long as he could .
He was stiff and lame and sore from the wounds made by Hooty the Owl , but his curiosity would n't let him sit still a minute longer .
He just HAD to explore the Old Pasture .
So with many a wry face and many an `` Ouch '' he limped out from the shelter of the friendly old bramble-bush and started out to see what the Old Pasture was like .
Now Hooty the Owl had taught Peter wisdom .
With his torn clothes and his aches and smarts he could n't very well forget to be careful .
First he made sure that there was no danger near , and this time he took pains to look all around in the sky as well as on the ground .
Then he limped out to the very patch of sweet clover where Hooty had so nearly caught him the night before .
`` A good breakfast , '' said Peter , `` will make a new Rabbit of me . ''
You know Peter thinks a great deal of his stomach .
So he began to eat as fast as he could , stopping every other mouthful to look and listen .
`` I know it 's a bad habit to eat fast , '' said he , `` but it 's a whole lot worse to have an empty stomach . ''
So he ate and ate and ate as fast as he could make his little jaws go , which is very fast indeed .
When Peter 's stomach was stuffed full he gave a great sigh of relief and limped back to the friendly old bramble-bush to rest .
But he could n't sit still long , for he just had to find out all about the Old Pasture .
So pretty soon he started out to explore .
Such a wonderful place as it seemed to Peter !
There were clumps of bushes with little open spaces between , just the nicest kind of playgrounds .
Then there were funny spreading , prickly juniper-trees , which made the very safest places to crawl out of harm 's way and to hide .
Everywhere were paths made by cows .
Very wonderful they seemed to Peter , who had never seen any like them before .
He liked to follow them because they led to all kinds of queer places .
Sometimes he would come to places where tall trees made him think of the Green Forest , only there were never more than a few trees together .
Once he found an old tumble-down stone wall all covered with vines , and he shouted right out with delight .
`` It 's a regular castle ! ''
cried Peter , and he knew that there he would be safe from every one but Shadow the Weasel .
But he never was wholly safe from Shadow the Weasel anywhere , so he did n't let that thought worry him .
By and by he came to a wet place called a swamp .
The ground was soft , and there were little pools of water .
Great ferns grew here just as they did along the bank of the Laughing Brook , only more of them .
There were pretty birch-trees and wild cherry-trees .
It was still and dark and oh , so peaceful !
Peter liked that place and sat down under a big fern to rest .
He did n't hear a sound excepting the beautiful silvery voice of Veery the Thrush .
Listening to it , Peter fell asleep , for he was very tired .
By and by Peter awoke .
For a minute he could n't think where he was .
Then he remembered .
But for a long time he sat perfectly still , thinking of his adventures and wondering if he would be missed down on the Green Meadows .
Then all of a sudden Peter saw something that made him sit up so suddenly that he cried `` Ouch ! ''
for he had forgotten all about how stiff and sore he was .
What do you think Peter saw ?
Tracks !
Yes , Sir , he saw tracks , Rabbit tracks in the soft mud , and Peter knew that he had n't made them !
CHAPTER VIII THE STRANGE TRACKS IN THE OLD PASTURE Who has attentive ear and eye Will learn a lot if he but try .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit stared and stared at the tracks in the soft mud of the swamp in the Old Pasture .
He would look first at the tracks , then at his own feet , and finally back at the tracks again .
He scratched his long right ear with his long right hind foot .
Then he scratched his long left ear with his long left hind foot , all the time staring his hardest at those strange tracks .
They certainly were the tracks of a Rabbit , and it was equally certain that they were not his own .
`` They are too big for mine , and they are too small for Jumper the Hare 's .
Besides , Jumper is in the Green Forest and not way off up here , '' said Peter to himself .
`` I wonder -- well , I wonder if he will try to drive me away . ''
You see Peter knew that if he had found a strange Rabbit in his dear Old Briar-patch he certainly would have tried his best to drive him out , for he felt that the Old Briar-patch belonged to him .
Now he wondered if the maker of these tracks would feel the same way about the Old Pasture .
Peter looked troubled as he thought it over .
Then his face cleared .
`` Perhaps , '' said he hopefully , `` he is a new comer here , too , and if he is , I 'll have just as much right here as he has .
Perhaps he simply has big feet and is n't any bigger or stronger than I am , and if that 's the case I 'd like to see him drive me out ! ''
Peter swelled himself out and tried to look as big as he could when he said this , but swelling himself out this way reminded him of how stiff and sore he was from the wounds given him by Hooty the Owl , and he made a wry face .
You see he realized all of a sudden that he did n't feel much like fighting .
`` My , '' said Peter , `` I guess I 'd better find out all about this other fellow before I have any trouble with him .
The Old Pasture looks big enough for a lot of Rabbits , and perhaps if I do n't bother him , he wo n't bother me .
I wonder what he looks like .
I believe I 'll follow these tracks and see what I can find . ''
So Peter began to follow the tracks of the strange Rabbit , and he was so interested that he almost forgot to limp .
They led him this way and they led him that way through the swamp and then out of it .
At the foot of a certain birch-tree Peter stopped .
`` Ha ! ''
said he , `` now I shall know just how big this fellow is . ''
How was he to know ?
Why , that tree was a kind of Rabbit measuring - stick .
Yes , Sir , that is just what it was .
You see , Rabbits like to keep a record of how they grow , just as some little boys and girls do , but as they have no doors or walls to stand against , they use trees .
And this was the measuring-tree of the Rabbit whose tracks Peter had been following .
Peter stopped at the foot of it and sat down to think it over .
He knew what that tree meant perfectly well .
He had one or two measuring-trees of his own on the edge of the Green Forest .
He knew , too , that it was more than a mere measuring-tree .
It was a kind of `` no trespassing '' sign .
It meant that some other Rabbit had lived here for some time and felt that he owned this part of the Old Pasture .
Peter 's nose told him that , for the tree smelled very , very strong of Rabbit -- of the Rabbit with the big feet .
This was because whoever used it for a measuring-tree used to rub himself against it as far up as he could reach .
Peter hopped up close to it .
Then he sat up very straight and stretched himself as tall as he could , but he wisely took care not to rub against the tree .
You see , he did n't want to leave his own mark there .
So he stretched and stretched , but stretch as he would , he could n't make his wobbly little nose reach the mark made by the other Rabbit .
`` My sakes , he is a big fellow ! ''
exclaimed Peter .
`` I guess I do n't want to meet him until I feel better and stronger than I do now . ''
CHAPTER IX AN UNPLEASANT SURPRISE Legs are very useful when you want to run away ; Long , sharp teeth are splendid if to fight you want to stay ; But a far , far greater blessing , whether one may stay or quit , Is a clever , trusty , quick and ever ready wit .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit sat in a snug hiding-place in the Old Pasture and thought over what he had found out about the strange Rabbit whose tracks he had followed .
They had led him to a rubbing or measuring-tree , where the strange Rabbit had placed his mark , and that mark was so high up on the tree that Peter knew the strange Rabbit must be a great deal bigger than himself .
`` If he 's bigger , of course he is stronger , '' thought Peter , `` and if he is both bigger and stronger , of course it wo n't be the least bit of use for me to fight him .
Then , anyway , I 'm too stiff and sore to fight .
And then , he has no business to think he owns the Old Pasture , because he does n't .
I have just as much right here as he has .
Yes , Sir , I have just as much right in this Old Pasture as he has , and if he thinks he can drive me out he is going to find that he was never more mistaken in his life !
I 'll show him !
Yes , Sir-e-e , I 'll show him !
I guess my wits are as sharp as his , and I would n't wonder if they are a little bit sharper . ''
Foolish Peter Rabbit !
There he was boasting and bragging to himself of what he would do to some one whom he had n't even seen , all because he had found a sign that told him the Old Pasture , in which he had made up his mind to make his new home , was already the home of some one else .
Peter was like a lot of other people ; he was n't fair .
No , Sir , he was n't fair .
He let his own desires destroy his sense of fair play .
It was all right for him to put up signs in the dear Old Briar-patch and the Green Forest , warning other Rabbits that they must keep away , but it was all wrong for another Rabbit to do the same thing in the Old Pasture .
Oh , my , yes !
That was quite a different matter !
The very thought of it made Peter very , very angry .
When he thought of this other Rabbit , it was always as the stranger .
That shows just how unfair Peter was , because , you see , Peter himself was really the stranger .
It was his first visit to the Old Pasture , while it was very plain that the other had lived there for some time .
But Peter could n't or would n't see that .
He had counted so much on having the Old Pasture to himself and doing as he pleased , that he was too upset and disappointed to be fair .
If the other Rabbit had been smaller than he -- well , that might have made a difference .
The truth is , Peter was just a wee bit afraid .
And perhaps it was that wee bit of fear that made him unfair and unjust .
Anyway , the longer he sat and thought about it , the angrier he grew , and the more he bragged and boasted to himself about what he would do .
`` I 'll just keep out of sight until my wounds are healed , and then we 'll see who owns the Old Pasture ! ''
thought Peter .
No sooner had this thought popped into his head than he received a surprise , such an unpleasant surprise !
It was three heavy thumps right behind him .
Peter knew what that meant .
Of course he knew .
It meant that he must run or fight .
It meant that he had been so busy thinking about how smart he was going to be that he had forgotten to cover his own tracks , and so the maker of the big tracks he had followed had found him out .
Thump !
Thump !
Thump !
There it was again .
Peter knew by the sound that it was of no use to stay and fight , especially when he was so sore and stiff .
There was nothing to do but run away .
He simply had to .
And that is just what he did do , while his eyes were filled with tears of rage and bitterness .
CHAPTER X PETER RABBIT ALMOST DECIDES TO RETURN HOME I have no doubt that you 've been told How timid folks are sometimes bold .
Peter Rabbit .
In all his life Peter Rabbit had never been so disappointed .
Here he was in the Old Pasture , about which he had dreamed and thought so long , and in reaching which he had had such a narrow escape from Hooty the Owl , and yet he was unhappy .
The fact is , Peter was more unhappy than he could remember ever to have been before .
Not only was he unhappy , but he was in great fear , and the worst of it was he was in fear of an enemy who could go wherever he could go himself .
You see , it was this way : Peter had expected to find some enemies in the Old Pasture .
He had felt quite sure that fierce old Mr. Goshawk was to be watched for , and perhaps Mr. Redtail and one or two others of the Hawk family .
He knew that Granny and Reddy Fox had lived there once upon a time and might come back if things got too unpleasant for them on the Green Meadows , now that Old Man Coyote had made his home there .
But Peter did n't worry about any of these dangers .
He was used to them , was Peter .
He had been dodging them ever since he could remember , A friendly bramble-bush , a little patch of briars , or an old stone wall near was all that Peter needed to feel perfectly safe from these enemies , But now he was in danger wherever he went , for he had an enemy who could go everywhere he could , and it seemed to Peter that this enemy was following him all the time .
Who was it ?
Why , it was a great big old Rabbit with a very short temper , who , because he had lived there for a long time , felt that he owned the Old Pasture and that Peter had no right there .
Now , In spite of all his trouble , Peter had seen enough of the Old Pasture to think it a very wonderful place , a very wonderful place indeed .
He had seen just enough to want to see more .
You know how very curious Peter is .
It seemed to him that he just could n't go back to the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows until he had seen everything to be seen in the Old Pasture .
So he could n't make up his mind to go back home , but stayed and stayed , hoping each day that the old gray Rabbit would get tired of hunting for him , and would let him alone .
But the old gray Rabbit did n't do anything of the kind .
He seemed to take the greatest delight in waiting until Peter thought that he had found a corner of the Old Pasture where he would be safe , and then in stealing there when Peter was trying to take a nap , and driving him out .
Twice Peter had tried to fight , but the old gray Rabbit was too big for him .
He knocked all the wind out of poor Peter with a kick from his big hind legs , and then with his sharp teeth he tore Peter 's coat .
Poor Peter !
His coat had already been badly torn by the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl , and Old Mother Nature had n't had time to mend it when he fought with the old gray Rabbit .
After the second time Peter did n't try to fight again .
He just tried to keep out of the way .
And he did , too .
But in doing it he lost so much sleep and he had so little to eat that he grew thin and thin and thinner , until , with his torn clothes , he looked like a scarecrow .
And still he hated to give in When there was still so much to see .
`` Persistence , I was taught , will win , And so I will persist , '' said he .
And he did persist day after day , until at last he felt that he really must give it up .
He had stretched out wearily on a tiny sunning-bank in the farthest corner of the Old Pasture , and had just about made up his mind that he would go back that very night to the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows , when a tiny rustle behind him made him jump to his feet with his heart in his mouth .
But instead of the angry face of the old gray Rabbit he saw -- what do you think ?
Why , two of the softest , gentlest eyes peeping at him from behind a big fern .
CHAPTER XI PETER RABBIT HAS A SUDDEN CHANGE OF MIND Whatever you decide to do Make up your mind to see it through .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit stared at the two soft , gentle eyes peeping at him from behind the big fern just back of the sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture .
He had so fully expected to see the angry face of the big , gray , old Rabbit who had made life so miserable for him that for a minute he could n't believe that he really saw what he did see .
And so he just stared and stared .
It was very rude .
Of course it was .
It was very rude indeed .
It is always rude to stare at any one .
So it was no wonder that after a minute the two soft , gentle eyes disappeared behind one of the great green leaves of the fern .
Peter gave a great sigh .
Then he remembered how rude he had been to stare so .
`` I -- I beg your pardon , '' said Peter in his politest manner , which is very polite indeed , for Peter can be very polite when he wants to be .
`` I beg your pardon .
I did n't mean to frighten you .
Please forgive me . ''
With the greatest eagerness Peter waited for a reply .
You know it was because he had been so lonesome that he had left his home in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows .
And since he had been in the Old Pasture he had been almost as lonesome , for he had had no one to talk to .
So now he waited eagerly for a reply .
You see , he felt sure that the owner of such soft , gentle eyes must have a soft , gentle voice and a soft , gentle heart , and there was nothing in the world that Peter needed just then so much as sympathy .
But though he waited and waited , there was n't a sound from the big fern .
`` Perhaps you do n't know who I am .
I 'm Peter Rabbit , and I 've come up here from the Green Meadows , and I 'd like very much to be your friend , '' continued Peter after a while .
Still there was no sound .
Peter peeped from the corner of one eye at the place where he had seen the two soft , gentle eyes , but there was nothing to be seen but the gently waving leaf of the big fern .
Peter did n't know just what to do .
He wanted to hop over to the big fern and peep behind it , but he did n't dare to .
He was afraid that whoever was hiding there would run away .
`` I 'm very lonesome ; wo n't you speak to me ? ''
said Peter , in his gentlest voice , and he sighed a deep , doleful sort of sigh .
Still there was no reply .
Peter had just about made up his mind that he would go over to the big fern when he saw those two soft , gentle eyes peeping from under a different leaf .
It seemed to Peter that never in all his life had he seen such beautiful eyes .
They looked so shy and bashful that Peter held his breath for fear that he would frighten them away .
After a time the eyes disappeared .
Then Peter saw a little movement among the ferns , and he knew that whoever was there was stealing away .
He wanted to follow , but something down inside him warned him that It was best to sit still .
So Peter sat just where he was and kept perfectly still for the longest time .
But the eyes did n't appear again , and at last he felt sure that whoever they belonged to had really gone away .
Then he sighed another great sigh , for suddenly he felt more lonesome than ever .
He hopped over to the big fern and looked behind it .
There in the soft earth was a footprint , the footprint of a Rabbit , and it was SMALLER than his own .
It seemed to Peter that it was the most wonderful little footprint he ever had seen .
`` I believe , '' said Peter right out loud , `` that I 'll change my mind .
I wo n't go back to the dear Old Briar-patch just yet , after all . ''
CHAPTER XII PETER LEARNS SOMETHING FEOM TOMMY TIT When you find a friend in trouble Pass along a word of cheer .
Often it is very helpful Just to feel a friend is near .
Peter Rabbit .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
What are you doing way up here , and what are you looking so mournful about ? ''
Peter gave a great start of pleased surprise .
That was the first friendly voice he had heard for days and days .
`` Hello yourself , Tommy Tit ! ''
shouted Peter joyously .
`` My , my , my , but I am glad to see you !
But what are you doing up here in the Old Pasture yourself ? ''
Tommy Tit the Chickadee hung head down from the tip of a slender branch of a maple-tree and winked a saucy bright eye at Peter .
`` I 've got a secret up here , '' he said .
Now there is nothing in the world Peter Rabbit loves more than a secret .
But he can not keep one to save him .
No , Sir , Peter Rabbit can no more keep a secret than he can fly .
He means to .
His intentions are the very best in the world , but -- Alas !
alack !
poor Peter 's tongue Is very , very loosely hung .
And so , because he MUST talk and WILL talk every chance he gets , he can not keep a secret .
People who talk too much never can .
`` What is your secret ? ''
asked Peter eagerly .
Tommy Tit looked down at Peter , and his sharp little eyes twinkled .
`` It 's a nest with six of the dearest little babies in the world in it , '' he replied .
`` Oh , how lovely ! ''
cried Peter .
`` Where is it , Tommy Tit ? ''
`` In a hollow birch-stub , '' replied Tommy , his eyes twinkling more than ever .
`` But where is the hollow birch-stub ? ''
persisted Peter .
Tommy laughed .
`` That 's my real secret , '' said he , `` and if I should tell you it would n't be a secret at all .
Now tell me what you are doing up here in the Old Pasture , Peter Rabbit . ''
Peter saw that it was of no use to tease Tommy Tit for his secret , so instead he poured out all his own troubles .
He told how lonesome he had been in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows because he did n't dare to go about for fear of Old Man Coyote , and how at last he had decided to visit the Old Pasture .
He told how Hooty the Owl had nearly caught him on his way , and then how , ever since his arrival , he had been hunted by the big , gray , old Rabbit so that he could neither eat nor sleep and had become so miserable that at last he had made up his mind to go back to the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` Ho ! ''
interrupted Tommy Tit , `` I know him .
He 's Old Jed Thumper , the oldest , biggest , crossest Rabbit anywhere around .
He 's lived in the Old Pasture so long that he thinks he owns it .
It 's a wonder that he has n't killed you . ''
`` I guess perhaps he would have only I can run faster than he can , '' replied Peter , looking a little shamefaced because he had to own up that he ran away instead of fighting .
Tommy Tit laughed .
`` That 's the very wisest thing you could have done , '' said he .
`` But why do n't you go back to the dear Old Briar-patch in the Green Meadows ? ''
Peter hesitated and looked a wee bit foolish .
Finally he told Tommy Tit all about the two soft , gentle eyes he had seen peeping at him from behind a big fern , and how he wanted to know who the eyes belonged to .
`` If that 's all you want to know , I can tell you , '' said Tommy Tit , jumping out into the air to catch a foolish little bug who tried to fly past .
`` Those eyes belong to little Miss Fuzzy-tail , and she 's the favorite daughter of Old Jed Thumper .
You take my advice , Peter Rabbit , and trot along home to the Old Briar-patch before you get into any more trouble .
There 's my wife calling .
Yes , my dear , I 'm coming !
Chickadee - dee-dee ! ''
And with a wink and a nod to Peter Rabbit , off flew Tommy Tit .
CHAPTER XIII LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL Foolish questions waste time , but wise questions lead to knowledge .
Peter Rabbit .
`` Little Miss Fuzzytail ! ''
Peter said it over and over again , as he sat on the sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture , where Tommy Tit the Chickadee had left him .
`` It 's a pretty name , '' said Peter .
`` Yes , Sir , it 's a pretty name .
It 's the prettiest name I 've ever heard .
I wonder if she is just as pretty .
I -- I -- think she must be .
Yes , I am quite sure she must be . ''
Peter was thinking of the soft , gentle eyes he had seen peeping at him from behind the big fern , and of the dainty little footprint he had found there afterward .
So he sat on the sunning-bank , dreaming pleasant dreams and wondering if he could find little Miss Fuzzytail if he should go look for her .
Now all the time , although Peter did n't know it , little Miss Fuzzytail was very close by .
She was right back in her old hiding-place behind the big fern , shyly peeping out at him from under a great leaf , where she was sure he would n't see her .
She saw the long tears in Peter 's coat , made by the cruel claws of Hooty the Owl , and she saw the places where her father , Old Jed Thumper , had pulled the hair out with his teeth .
She saw how thin and miserable Peter looked , and tears of pity filled the soft , gentle eyes of little Miss Fuzzytail , for , you see , she had a very tender heart .
`` He 's got a very nice face , '' thought Miss Fuzzytail , `` and he certainly was very polite , and I do love good manners .
And Peter is such a nice sounding name !
It sounds so honest and good and true .
Poor fellow !
Poor Peter Rabbit ! ''
Here little Miss Fuzzytail wiped her eyes .
`` He looks so miserable I do wish I could do something for him .
I -- I -- oh , dear , I do believe he is coming right over here !
I guess I better be going .
How he limps ! ''
Once more the tears filled her soft , gentle eyes as she stole away , making not the least little sound .
When she was sure she was far enough away to hurry without attracting Peter 's attention , she began to run .
`` I saw him talking to my old friend Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and I just know that Tommy will tell me all about him , '' she thought , as she scampered along certain private little paths of her own .
Just as she expected , she found Tommy Tit and his anxious little wife , Phoebe , very busy hunting for food for six hungry little babies snugly hidden in a hollow near the top of the old birch-stub .
Tommy was too busy to talk then , so little Miss Fuzzytail sat down under a friendly bramble-bush to rest and wait , and while she waited , she carefully washed her face and brushed her coat until it fairly shone .
You see , not in all the Old Pasture , or the Green Forest , was there so slim and trim and neat and dainty a Rabbit as little Miss Fuzzytail , and she was very , very particular about her appearance .
By and by , Tommy Tit stopped to rest .
He looked down at Miss Fuzzytail and winked a saucy black eye .
Miss Fuzzytail winked back .
Then both laughed , for they were very good friends , indeed .
`` Tell me , Tommy Tit , all about Peter Rabbit , '' commanded little Miss Fuzzytail .
And Tommy did .
CHAPTER XIV SOME ONE FOOLS OLD JED THUMPER You can not judge a person 's temper by his size .
There is more meanness in the head of a Weasel than in the whole of a Bear .
Peter Rabbit .
Old Jed Thumper sat in his bull-briar castle in the middle of the Old Pasture , scowling fiercely and muttering to himself .
He was very angry , was Old Jed Thumper .
He was so angry that presently he stopped muttering and began to chew rapidly on nothing at all but his temper , which is a way angry Rabbits have .
The more he chewed his temper , the angrier he grew .
He was big and stout and strong and gray .
He had lived so long in the Old Pasture that he felt that it belonged to him and that no other Rabbit had any right there unless he said so .
Yet here was a strange Rabbit who had had the impudence to come up from the Green Meadows and refused to be driven away .
Such impudence !
Of course it was Peter Rabbit of whom Old Jed Thumper was thinking .
It was two days since he had caught a glimpse of Peter , but he knew that Peter was still in the Old Pasture , for he had found fresh tracks each day .
That very morning he had visited his favorite feeding ground , only to find Peter 's tracks there .
It had made him so angry that he had lost his appetite , and he had gone straight back to his bull-briar castle to think it over .
At last Old Jed Thumper stopped chewing on his temper .
He scowled more fiercely than ever and stamped the ground impatiently .
`` I 'll hunt that fellow till I kill him , or drive him so far from the Old Pasture that he 'll never think of coming back .
I certainly will ! ''
he said aloud , and started forth to hunt .
Now it would have been better for the plans of Old Jed Thumper if he had kept them to himself instead of speaking aloud .
Two dainty little ears heard what he said , and two soft , gentle eyes watched him leave the bull-briar castle .
He started straight for the far corner of the Old Pasture where , although he did n't know it , Peter Rabbit had found a warm little sunning-bank .
But he had n't gone far when , from way off in the opposite direction , he heard a sound that made him stop short and prick up his long ears to listen .
There it was again -- thump , thump !
He was just going to thump back an angry reply , when he thought better of it .
`` If do that , '' thought he , `` I 'll only warn him , and he 'll run away , just as he has before . ''
So instead , he turned and hurried in the direction from which the thumps had come , taking the greatest care to make no noise .
Every few jumps he would stop to listen .
Twice more he heard those thumps , and each time new rage filled his heart , and for a minute or two he chewed his temper .
`` He 's down at my blueberry-patch , '' he muttered .
At last he reached the blueberry-patch .
Very softly he crept to a place where he could see and not be seen .
No one was there .
No , Sir , no one was there !
He waited and watched , and there was n't a hair of Peter Rabbit to be seen .
He was just getting ready to go look for Peter 's tracks when he heard that thump , thump again .
This time it came from his favorite clover-patch where he never allowed even his favorite daughter , little Miss Fuzzytail , to go .
Anger nearly choked him as he hurried in that direction .
But when he got there , just as before no one was to be seen .
So , all the morning long , Old Jed Thumper hurried from one place to another and never once caught sight of Peter Rabbit .
Can you guess why ?
Well , the reason was that all the time Peter was stretched out on his warm sunning-bank getting the rest he so much needed .
It was some one else who was fooling Old Jed Thumper .
CHAPTER XV A PLEASANT SURPRISE FOR PETER Sticks will break and sticks will bend , And all things bad will have an end .
Peter Rabbit .
All morning , while someone was fooling Old Jed Thumper , the cross old Rabbit who thought he owned the Old Pasture , Peter Rabbit lay stretched out on the warm little sunning-bank , dreaming of soft , gentle eyes and beautiful little footprints .
It was a dangerous place to go to sleep , because at any time fierce Mr. Goshawk might have come that way , and if he had , and had found Peter Rabbit asleep , why , that would have been the end of Peter and all the stories about him .
Peter did go to sleep .
You see , the sunning-bank was so warm and comfortable , and he was so tired and had had so little sleep for such a long time that , in spite of all he could do , he nodded and nodded and finally slipped off into dreamland .
Peter slept a long time , for no one came to disturb him .
It was past noon when he opened his eyes and blinked up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
For a minute he could n't remember where he was .
When he did , he sprang to his feet and hastily looked this way and that way .
`` My gracious ! ''
exclaimed Peter .
`` My gracious , what a careless fellow I am !
It 's a wonder that Old Jed Thumper did n't find me asleep .
My , but I 'm hungry !
Seems as if I had n't had a good square meal for a year . ''
Peter stopped suddenly and began to wrinkle his nose .
`` Um-m ! ''
said he , `` if I did n't know better , I should say that there is a patch of sweet clover close by .
Um-m , my , my !
Am I really awake , or am I still dreaming ?
I certainly do smell sweet clover ! ''
Slowly Peter turned his head In the direction from which the delicious smell seemed to come .
Then he whirled around and stared as hard as ever he could , his mouth gaping wide open in surprise .
He blinked , rubbed his eyes , then blinked again .
There could be no doubt of it ; there on the edge of the sunning-bank was a neat little pile of tender , sweet clover .
Yes , Sir , there it was !
Peter walked all around it , looking for all the world as if he could n't believe that it was real .
Finally he reached out and nibbled a leaf of it .
It WAS real !
There was no doubt in Peter 's mind then .
Some one had put it there while Peter was asleep , and Peter knew that it was meant for him .
Who could it have been ?
Suddenly a thought popped into Peter 's head .
He stopped eating and hopped over to the big fern from behind which he had first seen the two soft , gentle eyes peeping at him the day before .
There in the soft earth was a fresh footprint , and it looked very , very much like the footprint of dainty little Miss Fuzzytail !
Peter 's heart gave a happy little jump .
He felt sure now who had put the clover there .
He looked wistfully about among the ferns , but she was nowhere to be seen .
Finally he hopped back to the pile of clover and ate it , every bit , and it seemed to him that it was the sweetest , tenderest clover he had ever tasted in all his life .
CHAPTER XVI PETER RABBIT 'S LOOKING-GLASS If people by their looks are judged , As judged they 're sure to be , Why each should always look his best , I 'm sure you will agree .
Peter Rabbit .
For the first time in his life Peter Rabbit had begun to think about his clothes .
Always he had been such a happy-go-lucky fellow that it never had entered his head to care how he looked .
He laughed at Sammy Jay for thinking so much of that beautiful blue-and-white coat he wears , and he poked fun at Reddy Fox for bragging so much about his handsome suit .
As for himself , Peter did n't care how he looked .
If his coat was whole , or in rags and tags , it was all the same to Peter .
But now Peter , sitting on the edge of his sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture , suddenly realized that he wanted to be good-looking .
Yes , Sir , he wanted to be good-looking .
He wished that he were bigger .
He wished that he were the biggest and strongest Rabbit in the world .
He wished that he had a handsome coat .
And it was all because of the soft , gentle eyes of little Miss Fuzzytail that he had seen peeping out at him so often .
He felt sure that it was little Miss Fuzzytail herself who had left the pile of sweet clover close by his sunning-bank the other day while he was asleep .
The fact is , Peter Rabbit was falling in love .
Yes , Sir , Peter Rabbit was falling in love .
All he had seen of little Miss Fuzzytail were her soft , gentle eyes , for she was very shy and had kept out of sight .
But ever since he had first seen them , he had thought and dreamed of nothing else , until it seemed as if there were nothing in the world he wanted so much as to meet her .
Perhaps he would have wanted this still more if he had known that it was she who had fooled her father , Old Jed Thumper , the big , gray , old Rabbit , so that Peter might have the long nap on the sunning-bank he so needed .
`` I 've just got to meet her .
I 've just got to ! ''
said Peter to himself , and right then he began to wish that he were big and fine-looking .
`` My , I must be a sight ! ''
he thought , `` I wonder how I do look , anyway .
I must hunt up a looking-glass and find out . ''
Now when Peter Rabbit thinks of doing a thing , he wastes very little time .
It was that way now .
He started at once for the bit of swamp where he had first seen the tracks of Old Jed Thumper .
He still limped from the wounds made by Hooty the Owl .
But in spite of this he could travel pretty fast , and it did n't take him long to reach the swamp .
There , just as he expected , he found a looking-glass .
What was it like ?
Why , it was just a tiny pool of water .
Yes , Sir , it was a quiet pool of water that reflected the ferns growing around it and the branches of the trees hanging over it , and Peter Rabbit himself sitting on the edge of it .
That was Peter 's looking-glass .
For a long time he stared into it .
At last he gave a great sigh .
`` My , but I am a sight ! ''
he exclaimed .
He was .
His coat was ragged and torn from the claws of Hooty the Owl and the teeth of Old Jed Thumper .
The white patch on the seat of his trousers was stained and dirty from sitting down in the mud .
There were burrs tangled in his waistcoat .
He was thin and altogether a miserable looking Rabbit .
`` It must be that Miss Fuzzytail just pities me .
She certainly ca n't admire me , '' muttered Peter , as he pulled out the burrs .
For the next hour Peter was very busy .
He washed and he brushed and he combed .
When , at last , he had done all that he could , he took another look in his looking-glass , and what he saw was a very different looking Rabbit .
`` Though I am homely , lank and lean , I can at least be neat and clean , '' said he , as he started back for the sunning-bank .
CHAPTER XVII PETER MEETS MISS FUZZYTAIL That this is true there 's no denying -- There 's nothing in the world like trying .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit was feeling better .
Certainly he was looking better .
You see , just as soon as Old Mother Nature saw that Peter was trying to look as well as he could , and was keeping himself as neat and tidy as he knew how , she was ready to help , as she always is .
She did her best with the rents in his coat , made by the claws of Hooty the Owl and the teeth of Old Jed Thumper , and so it was n't long before Peter 's coat looked nearly as good as new .
Then , too , Peter was getting enough to eat these days .
Days and days had passed since he had seen Old Jed Thumper , and this had given him time to eat and sleep .
Peter wondered what had become of Old Jed Thumper .
`` Perhaps something has happened to him , '' thought Peter .
`` I -- I almost hope something has . ''
Then , being ashamed of such a wish , he added , `` Something not very dreadful , but which will keep him from hunting me for a while and trying to drive me out of the Old Pasture . ''
Now all this time Peter had been trying to find little Miss Fuzzytail .
He was already in love with her , although all he had seen of her were her two soft , gentle eyes , shyly peeping at him from behind a big fern .
He had wandered here and sauntered there , looking for her , but although he found her footprints very often , she always managed to keep out of his sight , You see , she knew the Old Pasture so much better than he did , and all the little paths in it , that she had very little trouble in keeping out of his way .
Then , too , she was very busy , for it was she who was keeping her cross father , Old Jed Thumper , away from Peter , because she was so sorry for Peter .
But Peter did n't know this .
If he had , I am afraid that he would have been more in love than ever .
The harder she was to find , the more Peter wanted to find her .
He spent a great deal of time each day brushing his coat and making himself look as fine as he could , and while he was doing it , he kept wishing over and over again that something would happen so that he could show little Miss Fuzzytail what a smart , brave fellow he really was .
But one day followed another , and Peter seemed no nearer than ever to meeting little Miss Fuzzytail .
He was thinking of this one morning and was really growing very down-hearted , as he sat under a friendly bramble-bush , when suddenly there was a sharp little scream of fright from behind a little juniper-tree .
Somehow Peter knew whose voice that was , although he never had heard it before .
He sprang around the little juniper-tree , and what he saw filled him with such rage that he did n't once stop to think of himself .
There was little Miss Fuzzytail in the clutches of Black Pussy , Farmer Brown 's cat , who often stole away from home to hunt in the Old Pasture .
Like a flash Peter sprang over Black Pussy , and as he did so he kicked with all his might .
The cat had n't seen him coming , and the kick knocked her right into the prickly juniper-tree .
Of course she lost her grip on little Miss Fuzzytail , who had n't been hurt so much as frightened .
By the time the cat got out of the juniper-tree , Peter and Miss Fuzzytail were sitting side by side safe in the middle of a bull-briar patch .
`` Oh ?
how brave you are ! ''
sobbed little Miss Fuzzytail .
And this is the way that Peter Rabbit at last got his heart 's desire .
CHAPTER XVIII TOMMY TIT PROVES A FRIEND INDEED Nothing in all the world is so precious as a true friend .
Peter Rabbit .
After Peter Rabbit had saved little Miss Fuzzytail from Black Pussy , the cat who belonged way down at Farmer Brown 's house and had no business hunting in the Old Pasture , he went with her as near to her home as she would let him .
She said that it was n't necessary that he should go a single step , but Peter insisted that she needed him to see that no more harm came to her .
Miss Fuzzytail laughed at that , for she felt quite able to take care of herself .
It had been just stupid carelessness on her part that had given Black Pussy the chance to catch her , she said , and she was very sure that she never would be so careless again .
What she did n't tell Peter was that she had been so busy peeping at him and admiring him that she had quite forgotten to watch out for danger for herself .
Finally she said that he could go part way with her .
But when they were almost within sight of the bull-briar castle of her father , Old Jed Thumper , the big , gray Rabbit who thought he owned the Old Pasture , she made Peter turn back .
You see , she was afraid of what Old Jed Thumper might do to Peter , and -- well , the truth is she was afraid of what he might do to her if he should find out that she had made friends with Peter .
So Peter was forced to go back , but he took with him a half promise that she would meet him the next night up near his sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture .
After that there were many pleasant days for Peter Rabbit .
Sometimes little Miss Fuzzytail would meet him , and sometimes she would shyly hide from , him , but somehow , somewhere , he managed to see her every day , and so all the time in Peter 's heart was a little song : `` The sky is blue ; the leaves are green ; The golden sunbeams peep between ; My heart is joyful as can be , And all the world looks bright to me . ''
And then one day Old Jed Thumper found out all about how his daughter , little Miss Fuzzytail , and Peter Rabbit had become such good friends .
Old Jed Thumper went into a terrible rage .
He chewed and chewed with nothing in his mouth , that is , nothing but his temper , the way an angry Rabbit will .
He vowed and declared that if he never ate another mouthful he would drive Peter Rabbit from the Old Pasture .
My , my , my , those were bad days for Peter Rabbit !
Yes , Sir , those certainly were bad days !
Old Jed Thumper had found out how little Miss Fuzzytail had been fooling him by making him think Peter was in parts of the Old Pasture in quite the opposite direction from where he really was .
Worse still , he found Peter 's favorite sunning-bank in the far corner of the Old Pasture and would hide near it and try to catch Peter every time Peter tried to get a few minutes ' rest there .
He did something worse than that .
One day he saw fierce Mr. Goshawk hunting .
He let Mr. Goshawk almost catch him .
and then ducked under a bramble-bush .
Then he showed himself again and once more escaped in the same way .
So he led fierce Mr. Goshawk to a point where Mr. Goshawk could look down and see Peter Rabbit stretched out on his sunning-bank , trying to get a little rest .
Right ; away Mr. Goshawk forgot all about Old Jed Thumper and sailed up in the sky from where he could swoop down on Peter , while Old Jed Thumper , chuckling to himself wickedly , hid where he could watch what would happen .
That certainly would have been the last of Peter Rabbit if it had n't been for Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
Tommy saw Mr. Goshawk and just in time warned Peter , and so Mr. Goshawk got only his claws full of soft earth for his pains , while Old Jed Thumper once more chewed on nothing in rage and disappointment .
Dear me , dear me , those certainly were dreadful days for Peter Rabbit and little Miss Fuzzytail .
You see , all the time little Miss Fuzzytail was terribly worried for fear Peter would be caught .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : THAT NIGHT OLD MAN COYOTE STARTED FOR THE OLD PASTURE . -RSB-
CHAPTER XIX OLD MAN COYOTE PAYS A DEBT Some little seeds of goodness You 'll find in every heart , To sprout and keep on growing When once they get a start .
Peter Rabbit .
Matters went from bad to worse with Peter Rabbit and little Miss Fuzzytail .
Peter would have made up his mind to go back to his old home in the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows , but he felt that he just could n't leave little Miss Fuzzytail , and little Miss Fuzzytail could n't make up her mind to go with Peter , because she felt that she just could n't leave the Old Pasture , which always had been her home .
So Peter spent his days and nights ready to jump and run from Jed Thumper , the gray old Rabbit who thought he owned the Old Pasture , and who had declared that he would drive Peter out .
Now Peter , as you know , had an old friend in the Old Pasture , Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
One day Tommy took it into his head to fly down to the Green Meadows .
There he found everybody wondering what had become of Peter Rabbit , for you remember Peter had stolen away from the dear Old Briar-patch in the night and had told no one where he was going .
Now one of the first to ask Tommy Tit if he had seen Peter Rabbit was Old Man Coyote .
Tommy told him where Peter was and of the dreadful time Peter was having , Old Man Coyote asked a lot of questions about the Old Pasture and thanked Tommy very politely as Tommy flew over to the Smiling Pool to call on Grandfather Frog and Jerry Muskrat .
That night , after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had gone to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows had crept over the Green Meadows , Old Man Coyote started for the Old Pasture , Now , he had never been there before , but he had asked so many questions of Tommy Tit , and he is so smart anyway , that it did n't take him long to go all through the Old Pasture and to find the bull-briar castle of Old Jed Thumper , who was making life so miserable for Peter Rabbit , He was n't at home , but Old Man Coyote 's wonderful nose soon found his tracks , and he followed them swiftly , without making a sound .
Pretty soon he came to a bramble-bush , and under it he could see Old Jed Thumper .
For just a minute he chuckled , a noiseless chuckle , to himself .
Then he opened his mouth and out came that terrible sound which had so frightened all the little people on the Green Meadows when Old Man Coyote had first come there to live .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Hee , hee , hee !
Ha , ho , hee , ho ! ''
Old Jed Thumper never had heard anything like that before .
It frightened him so that before he thought what he was doing he had jumped out from under the bramble-bush .
Of course this was just what Old Man Coyote wanted .
In a flash he was after him , and then began such a race as the Old Pasture never had seen before .
Round and round , this way and that way , along the cow paths raced Old Jed Thumper with Old Man Coyote at his heels , until at last , out of breath , so tired that it seemed to him he could n't run another step , frightened almost out of his senses , Old Jed Thumper reached his bull-briar castle and was safe .
Then Old Man Coyote laughed his terrible laugh once more and trotted over to the tumble-down stone-wall in which his keen nose told him Peter Rabbit was hiding .
`` One good turn deserves another , and I always pay my debts , Peter Rabbit '' said he .
`` You did me a good turn some time ago down on the Green Meadows , when you told me how Granny and Reddy Fox were planning to make trouble for me by leading Bowser the Hound to the place where I took my daily nap , and now we are even .
I do n't think that old gray Rabbit will dare to poke so much as his nose out of his bull-briar castle for a week .
Now I am going back to the Green Meadows , Good night , Peter Rabbit , and do n't forget that I always pay my debts . ''
`` Good night , and thank you , Mr. Coyote , '' said Peter , and then , when Old Man Coyote had gone , he added to himself in a shame-faced way : `` I did n't believe him when he said that he guessed we would be friends . ''
CHAPTER XX LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL WHISPERS `` YES '' Love is a beautiful , wonderful thing .
There 's nothing quite like it on all the green earth .
'T is love in the heart teaches birdies to sing , And gives the wide world all its joy and its mirth .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit was finding this out .
Always he had been happy , for happiness had been born in him .
But the happiness he had known before was nothing to the happiness that was his when he found that he loved little Miss Fuzzytail and that little Miss Fuzzytail loved him , Peter was sure that she did love him , although she would n't say so .
But love does n't need words , and Peter had seen it shining in the two soft , gentle eyes of little Miss Fuzzytail .
So Peter was happy in spite of the trouble that Old led Thumper , the big , gray Rabbit who was the father of little Miss Fuzzytail , had made for him in the Old Pasture , He had tried very hard , very hard indeed , to get little Miss Fuzzytail to go back with him to the dear Old Briar-patch on the Green Meadows , but in spite of all he could say she could n't make up her mind to leave the Old Pasture , which , you know , had been her home ever since she was born .
And Peter could n't make up his mind to go back there and leave her , because -- why , because he loved her so much that he felt that he could never , never be happy without her .
Then , when Old Jed Thumper was hunting Peter so hard that he hardly had a chance to eat or sleep , had come Old Man Coyote the Wolf and given Old Jed Thumper such a fright that for a week he did n't dare poke so much as his nose out of his bull - briar castle .
Now , although Old Man Coyote did n't know it , his terrible voice had frightened little Miss Fuzzytail almost as much as it had Old Jed Thumper .
You see , she never had heard it before , She did n't even know what it was , and all that night she had crouched in her most secret hiding-place , shivering and shaking with fright .
The next morning Peter had found her there .
She had n't slept a wink , and she was still too frightened to even go look for her breakfast .
`` Oh , Peter Rabbit , did you hear that terrible noise last night ? ''
she cried .
`` What noise ? ''
asked Peter , just as if he did n't know anything about it .
`` Why , that terrible voice ! ''
cried little Miss Fuzzytail , and shivered at the thought of it .
`` What was it like ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Oh , I ca n't tell you , '' said little Miss Fuzzy tall , `` It was n't like anything I ever had heard before .
It was something like the voice of Hooty the Owl and the voice of Dippy the Loon and the voice of a little yelping dog all in one , and it was just terrible ! ''
`` Oh ? ''
replied Peter , `` you must mean the voice of my friend .
Old Man Coyote .
He came up here last night just to do me a good turn because I once did him a good turn . ''
Then he told all about how Old Man Coyote had come to the Green Meadows to live , and how he was smarter than even old Granny Fox , but he did n't tell her how he himself had once been frightened almost out of a year 's growth by that terrible voice , or that it was because he had n't really believed that Old Man Coyote was his friend that had led him to leave the Old Briar-patch and come up to the Old Pasture .
`` Is -- is he fond of Rabbits ? ''
asked little Miss Fuzzytail .
Peter was quite sure that he was .
`` And do you think he 'll come up here hunting again ? ''
she asked .
Peter did n't know , but he suspected that he would .
`` Oh , dear , '' wailed little Miss Fuzzytail .
`` Now , I never , never will feel safe again ! ''
Then Peter had a happy thought .
`` I tell you what , '' said he , `` the safest place in the world for you and me is my dear Old Briar-patch , Wo n't you go there now ? ''
Little Miss Fuzzytail sighed and dropped a tear or two .
Then she nestled up close to Peter .
`` Yes , '' she whispered .
CHAPTER XXI PETER AND LITTLE MISS FUZZYTAIL LEAVE THE OLD PASTURE A danger past is a danger past , So why not just forget it ?
Watch out instead for the one ahead Until you 've safely met it , Peter Rabbit .
As soon as little Miss Fuzzytail had agreed to go with him to make her home in the dear Old Briar-patch down on the Green Meadows , Peter Rabbit fairly boiled over with impatience to start , He had had so much trouble in the Old Pasture that he was afraid if they waited too long little Miss Fuzzytail might change her mind , and if she should do that -- well , Peter did n't know what he would do .
But Peter , who always had been so happy-go-lucky , with no one to think about but himself , now felt for the first time re-sponsi-bil-ity .
That 's a big word , but it is a word that everybody has to learn the meaning of sometime .
Johnny Chuck learned it when he made a home for Polly Chuck in Farmer Brown 's orchard , and tried to keep it a secret , so that no harm would come to Polly .
It means taking care of other people or other people 's things , and feeling that you must take even greater care than you would of yourself or your own things , So , while Peter himself would have been willing to take chances , and might even have made the journey down to the dear Old Briar-patch in broad daylight , he felt that that would n't do at all for little Miss Fuzzytail ; that he must avoid every possible chance of danger for her .
So Peter waited for a dark night , not too dark , you know , but a night when there was no moon to make great patches of light , but only the kindly little Stars looking down and twinkling in the friendly way they have .
At last there was just such a night .
All the afternoon little Miss Fuzzytail went about in the Old Pasture saying good-by to her friends and visiting each one of her favorite little paths and hiding-places , and I suspect that in each one she dropped a tear or two , for you see she felt sure that she never would see them again , although Peter had promised that he would bring her back to the Old Pasture for a visit whenever she wanted to come .
At last it was time to start .
Peter led the way .
Very big and brave and strong and important he felt , and very timid and frightened felt little Miss Fuzzytail , hopping after him close at his heels .
You see , she felt that she was going out into the Great World , of which she knew nothing at all .
`` Oh , Peter , '' she whispered , `` supposing we should meet Reddy Fox !
I would n't know where to run or hide . ''
`` We are not going to meet Reddy Fox , '' replied Peter , `` but if we should , all you have to do is to just keep your eyes on the white patch on the seat of my trousers and follow me .
I have fooled Reddy so many times that I 'm not afraid of him . ''
Never in all his life had Peter been so watchful and careful .
That was because he felt his re-sponsi-bil-ity .
Every few jumps he would stop to sit up and look and listen .
Then little Miss Fuzzytail would nestle up close to him , and Peter 's heart would swell with happiness , and he would feel , oh , so proud and important .
Once they heard the sharp bark of Reddy Fox , but it was a long way off , and Peter smiled , for he knew that Reddy was hunting on the edge of the Green Forest .
Once a dim shadow swept across the meadow grass ahead of them .
Peter dropped flat in the grass and kept perfectly still , and little Miss Fuzzytail did just as he did , as she had promised she would .
`` Wha -- what was it ? ''
she whispered .
`` I think it was Hooty the Owl , '' Peter whispered back , `` but he did n't see us . ''
After what seemed like a long , long time they heard Hooty 's fierce hunting call , but it came from way back of them on the edge of the Old Pasture .
Peter hopped to his feet .
`` Come on , '' said he .
`` There 's nothing to fear from him now . ''
So slowly and watchfully Peter led the way down across the Green Meadows while the little Stars looked down and twinkled in the most friendly way , and just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun started to kick off his bedclothes behind the Purple Hills they reached the dear Old Briar - patch .
`` Here we are ! ''
cried Peter .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad ! ''
cried little Miss Fuzzytail , hopping along one of Peter 's private little paths .
CHAPTER XXII SAMMY JAY BECOMES CURIOUS Learn all you can about others , but keep your own affairs to yourself .
Peter Rabbit .
Of course it was Sammy Jay who first found out that Peter Rabbit was back in the dear Old Briar-patch .
Sammy took it into his head to fly over there the very morning of Peter 's home-coming .
Indeed , little Miss Fuzzytail had n't had time to half see the clear Old Briar-patch which , you know , was to be her new home , when Peter saw Sammy Jay coming .
Now Peter was not quite ready to have all the world know that there was a Mrs. Peter , for of course that was what little Miss Fuzzytail was now that she had come to make her home with Peter .
They wanted to keep by themselves for a little while and just be happy with each other .
So as soon as Peter saw Sammy Jay headed towards the Old Briar-patch , he hid little Miss Fuzzytail under the thickest sweet-briar bush , and then hurried out to the nearest sweet-clover patch .
Of course Sammy Jay saw him right away , and of course Sammy was very much surprised .
`` Hello , Peter Rabbit !
Where 'd you come from ? ''
he shouted , as he settled himself comfortably in a little poplar-tree growing on the edge of the Old Briar-patch .
`` Oh , '' said Peter with a very grand air , `` I 've been on a long journey to see the Great World . ''
`` Which means , '' said Sammy Jay with a chuckle , `` that you 've been in the Old Pasture all this time , and let me tell you , Peter Rabbit , the Old Pasture is a very small part of the Great World .
By the way , Tommy Tit the Chickadee was down here the other day and told us all about you .
He said that you had fallen in love with little Miss Fuzzytail , and he guessed that you were going to make your home up there .
What 's the matter ?
Did her father , Old Jed Thumper , drive you out ? ''
`` No , he did n't ! ''
snapped Peter angrily , `` It 's none of your business what I came home for , Sammy Jay , but I 'll tell you just the same .
I came home because I wanted to . ''
Sammy chuckled , for he dearly loves to tease Peter and make him angry .
Then the imp of mischief , who seems always to live just under that smart cap of Sammy 's , prompted him to ask : `` Did you come home alone ? ''
Now Peter could n't say `` yes '' for that would be an untruth , and whatever faults Peter may have , he is at least truthful .
So he just pretended not to have heard Sammy 's question .
Now when Sammy had asked the question he had thought nothing about it .
It had just popped into his head by way of something to say .
But Sammy Jay is sharp , and he noticed right away that Peter did n't answer but began to talk about other things , `` Ha , ha ! ''
thought Sammy to himself , `` I believe he did n't come alone , I wonder now if he brought Miss Fuzzytail with him . ''
Right away Sammy began to peer down into the Old Briar-patch , twisting and turning so that he could see in every direction , and all the time talking as fast as his tongue could go .
Two or three times he flew out over the Old Briar-patch , pretending to try to catch moths , but really so that he could look down into certain hiding-places .
The last time that he did this he spied little Mrs. Peter , who was , you know , Miss Fuzzytail .
At once Sammy Jay started for the Green Forest , screaming at the top of his voice : `` Peter Rabbit 's married !
Peter Rabbit 's married ! ''
CHAPTER XXIII PETER INTRODUCES MRS. PETER It 's what you do for others , Not what they do for you , That makes you feel so happy All through and through and through .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit made a wry face as he listened to Sammy Jay shrieking at the top of his voice as he flew through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows , '' Peter Rabbit 's married ! ''
`` Peter Rabbit 's married ! ''
He saw the Merry Little Breezes who , you know , are the children of Old Mother West Wind , start for the dear Old Briar-patch as soon as they heard Sammy Jay , and he knew that they would be only the first of a lot of visitors .
He hurried to where Mrs. Peter was hiding under a sweet - briar bush .
`` Do you hear what that mischief-maker , Sammy Jay , is screaming ? ''
asked Peter .
Mrs. Peter nodded .
`` Do n't -- do n't you think it sounds kind of -- well , kind of NICE , Peter ? ''
she asked in a bashful sort of way .
Peter chuckled .
`` It sounds more than KIND of nice to me , '' said he .
`` Do you know , I used to think that Sammy Jay never did and never could say anything nice , but I 've just changed my mind .
Though he is n't saying it to be nice , it really is the nicest thing I 've ever heard him say .
We have n't been able to keep our secret , so I think the very best thing we can do is to invite everybody to call .
Then we can get it over with and have a little time to ourselves .
Here come the Merry Little Breezes , and I know that they will be glad to take the invitations for us . ''
Mrs. Peter agreed , for she thought that anything Peter did or suggested was just about right .
So the Merry Little Breezes were soon skipping and dancing over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest with this message : `` Mr. and Mrs. Peter Rabbit will be at home in the Old Briar-patch to their friends to-morrow after-noon at shadow-time . ''
`` Why did you make it at shadow-time ? ''
asked Mrs. Peter .
`` Because that will give all our friends a chance to come , '' replied Peter .
`` Those who sleep through the day will have waked up , and those who sleep through the night will not have gone to bed .
Besides , it will be safer for some of the smallest of them if the Black Shadows are about for them to hide in on their way here . ''
`` How thoughtful you are , '' said little Mrs. Peter with a little sigh of happiness .
Of course , every one who could walk , creep , or fly headed for the Old Briar-patch the next day at shadow-time , for almost every one knows and loves Peter Rabbit , and of course every one was very anxious to meet Mrs. Peter .
From the Smiling Pool came Billy Mink , Little Joe Otter , Jerry Muskrat , Spotty the Turtle , and old Grandfather Frog .
From the Green Forest came Bobby Coon , Unc ' Billy Possum and Mrs. Possum , Prickly Porky the Porcupine , Whitefoot the Woodmouse , Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , Chatterer the Red Squirrel , Blacky the Crow , Sammy Jay , Ol' Mistah Buzzard , Mistah Mockingbird , and Sticky-toes the Treetoad .
From the Green Meadows came Danny Meadow Mouse , Old Mr. Toad , Digger the Badger , Jimmy Skunk , and Striped Chipmunk , who lives near the old stone - wall between the edge of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Johnny and Polly Chuck came down from the Old Orchard and Drummer the Woodpecker came from the same place .
Of course Old Man Coyote paid his respects , and when he came everybody but Prickly Porky and Digger the Badger and Jimmy Skunk made way for him with great respect .
Granny and Reddy Fox and Hooty the Owl did n't call , but they sat where they could look on and make fun .
You see , Peter had fooled all three so many times that they felt none too friendly .
Very proud looked Peter as he stood under a bramble-bush with Mrs. Peter by his side and introduced her to his many friends , and very sweet and modest and retiring looked little Mrs. Peter as she sat beside him .
Everybody said that she was `` too sweet for anything '' , and when Reddy Fox overheard that remark he grinned and said : `` Not for me !
She ca n't be too sweet for me , and I hope I 'll have a chance to find out just how sweet she is . ''
What do you suppose he meant ?
CHAPTER XXIV DANNY MEADOW MOUSE WARNS PETER RABBIT Good advice Is always needed But , alas !
is seldom heeded , Peter Rabbit .
Danny Meadow Mouse waited until all the rest of Peter Rabbit 's friends had left the Old Briar-patch after paying their respects to Peter and Mrs. Peter , He waited for two reasons , did Danny Meadow Mouse .
In the first place , he had seen old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox hanging about a little way off , and though they had disappeared after a while , Danny had an idea that they were not far away , but were hiding so that they might catch him on his way home .
Of course , he had n't the slightest intention of giving them the chance .
He had made up his mind to ask Peter if he might spend the night in a corner of the Old Briar-patch , and he was very sure that Peter would say he might , for he and Peter are very good friends , very good friends indeed .
The second good reason Danny had for waiting was this very friendship .
You see , Peter had been away from the Green Meadows so long that Danny felt sure he could n't know all about how things were there now , and so he wanted to warn Peter that the Green Meadows were not nearly as safe as before Old Man Coyote had come there to live .
So Danny waited , and when all the rest of the callers had left he called Peter to one side where little Mrs. Peter could n't hear .
Danny stood up on his hind legs so as to whisper in one of Peter 's ears .
`` Do you know that Old Man Coyote is the most dangerous enemy we have , Peter Rabbit ?
Do you know that ? ''
he asked .
Peter Rabbit shook his head .
`` I do n't believe that , Danny , '' said he .
`` His terrible voice has frightened you so that you just think him as bad as he sounds .
Why , Old Man Coyote is a friend of mine . ''
Then he told Danny how Old Man Coyote had done him a good turn In the Old Pasture in return for a good turn Peter had once done him , and how he said that he always paid his debts .
Danny Meadow Mouse looked doubtful .
`` What else did he say ? ''
he demanded .
`` Nothing , excepting that we were even now , '' replied Peter .
`` Ha ! ''
said Danny Meadow Mouse .
The way he said it made Peter turn to look at him sharply .
`` Ha ! ''
said Danny again .
`` If you are even , why you do n't owe him anything , and he does n't owe you anything .
Watch out , Peter Rabbit !
Watch out !
I would stick pretty close to the Old Briar-patch with Mrs. Peter if I were you .
I would indeed .
You used to think old Granny Fox pretty smart , but Old Man Coyote is smarter .
Yes , Sir , he is smarter !
And every one of the rest of us has got to be smarter than ever before to keep out of his clutches .
Watch out , Peter Rabbit , if you and Old Man Coyote are even .
Now , if you do n't mind , I 'll curl up in my old hiding - place for the night .
I really do n't dare go back home to-night . ''
Of course Peter told Danny Meadow Mouse that he was welcome to spend the night in the Old Briar-patch , and thanked Danny for his warning as he bade him good-night .
But Peter never carries his troubles with him for long , and by the time he had rejoined little Mrs. Peter he was very much inclined to laugh at Danny 's fear .
`` What did that funny little Meadow Mouse have to say ? ''
asked Mrs. Peter .
Peter told her and then added , `` But I do n't believe we have anything to fear from Old Man Coyote .
You know he is my friend . ''
`` But I do n't know that he is mine ! ''
replied little Mrs. Peter , and the way she said it made Peter look at her anxiously .
`` I believe Danny Meadow Mouse is right , '' she continued , `` Oh , Peter , you will watch out , wo n't you ? ''
And Peter promised her that he would .
CHAPTER XXV PETER RABBIT 'S HEEDLESSNESS Heedlessness is just the twin of thoughtlessness , you know , And where you find them both at once , there trouble 's sure to grow .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit did n't mean to be heedless .
No , indeed !
Oh , my , no !
Peter thought so much of Mrs. Peter , he meant to be so thoughtful that she never would have a thing to worry about .
But Peter was heedless .
He always was heedless .
This is the worst of a bad habit -- you can try to let go of it , but it wo n't let go of you .
So it was with Peter .
He had been heedless so long that now he actually did n't know when he was heedless .
When there was nobody but himself to think about , and no one to worry about him , his heedlessness did n't so much matter .
If anything had happened to him then , there would have been no one to suffer .
But now all this was changed .
You see , there was little Mrs. Peter .
At first Peter had been perfectly content to stay with her in the dear Old Briar - patch .
He had led her through all his private little paths , and they had planned where they would make two or three more .
He had showed her all his secret hiding-places and the shortest way to the sweet-clover patch .
He had pointed out where the Lone Little Path came down to the edge of the Green Forest and so out on to the Green Meadows .
He had shown her where the Crooked Little Path came down the hill .
Little Mrs. Peter had been delighted with everything , and not once had she complained of being homesick for the Old Pasture .
But after a little while Peter began to get uneasy .
You see in the days before Old Man Coyote had come to live on the Green Meadows , Peter had come and gone about as he pleased .
Of course he had had to watch out for Granny and Reddy Fox , but he had had to watch out for them ever since he was a baby , so he did n't fear them very much in spite of their smartness .
He felt quite as smart as they and perhaps a little bit smarter .
Anyway , they never had caught him , and he did n't believe they ever would .
So he had come and gone as he pleased , and poked his nose into everybody 's business , and gossiped with everybody .
Of course it was quite natural that Peter should want to call on all his old friends and visit the Green Forest , the Old Orchard , the Laughing Brook , and the Smiling Pool .
Probably Mrs. Peter would n't have worried very much if it had n't been for the warning left by Danny Meadow Mouse .
Danny had said that Old Man Coyote was more to be feared than all the Hawk family and all the Fox family together , because he was smarter and slyer than any of them .
At first Peter had looked very serious , but after Danny had gone back to his own home Peter had laughed at Danny for being so afraid , and he began to go farther and farther away from the safe Old Briar-patch .
One day he had ventured as far as halfway up the Crooked Little Path .
He was thinking so hard of a surprise he was planning for little Mrs. Peter that he forgot to watch out and almost ran into Old Man Coyote before he saw him .
There was a hungry look , such a hungry look in Old Man Coyote 's eyes as he grinned and said `` Good morning '' that Peter did n't even stop to be polite .
He remembered that Jimmy Skunk 's old house was near , and he reached it just one jump ahead of Old Man Coyote .
`` I thought you said that we were friends , '' panted Peter , as he heard Mr. Coyote sniffing at the doorway .
`` So we were until I had paid my debt to you .
Now that I 've paid that , we are even , and it is everybody watch out for himself , '' replied Old Man Coyote .
`` But do n't forget that I always pay my debts , Peter Rabbit . ''
CHAPTER XXVI PETER RABBIT LISTENS TO MRS. PETER Safety first is a wise rule for those who would live long .
Peter Rabbit .
Peter Rabbit was glad enough to get back to the dear Old Briar-patch after his narrow escape from Old Man Coyote by dodging into Jimmy Skunk 's old house halfway up the hill .
And little Mrs. Peter was glad enough to have him , you may be sure .
She had been watching Peter when he so heedlessly almost ran into Old Man Coyote , and it had seemed to her as if her heart stopped beating until Peter reached the safety of that old house of Jimmy Skunk just one jump ahead .
Then she saw Old Man Coyote hide in the grass near by and she was terribly , terribly afraid that Peter would be heedless again and come out , thinking that Mr. Coyote had gone .
Poor little Mrs. Peter !
She was so anxious that she could n't sit still .
She felt that she just had to do something to warn Peter .
She stole out from the dear Old Briar-patch and halfway to where Old Man Coyote was hiding .
He was so busy watching the doorway of the old house where Peter was hiding that he did n't notice her at all .
Little Mrs. Peter found a bunch of tall grass behind which she could sit up and still not be seen .
So there she sat without moving for a long , long time , never once taking her eyes from Old Man Coyote and the doorway of the old house .
By and by she saw Peter poke his nose out to see if the way was clear .
Old Man Coyote saw him too , and began to grin .
It was a hungry , wicked-looking grin , and it made little Mrs. Peter very , very angry indeed .
She waited just a minute longer to make sure that Peter was where he could see her , and then she thumped the ground very hard , which , you know , is the way Rabbits signal to each other .
Peter heard it right away and thumped back that he would stay right where he was , though right down in his heart Peter thought that little Mrs. Peter was just nervous and foolish , for he was sure that Old Man Coyote had given up and gone away long ago .
Now of course Old Man Coyote heard those thumps , and he knew just what they meant .
He knew that he never , never could catch Peter so long as Mrs. Peter was watching him and ready to warn Peter , So he came out of his hiding-place with an ugly snarl and sprang toward little Mrs. Peter just to frighten her .
He laughed as he watched her run and , all breathless , dive into the dear , Old Briar-patch , and then he trotted away to his favorite napping-place .
As soon as Peter was sure that he was safe he started for home , and there little Mrs. Peter scolded him soundly for being so heedless and thoughtless .
Peter did n't have a word to say .
For a long time he sat thinking and thinking , every once in a while scratching his head as if puzzled .
Little Mrs. Peter noticed it .
`` What 's the matter with you , Peter ? ''
she asked finally .
`` I 'm just studying what Old Man Coyote means by telling me one day that he is my friend , and proving it by doing me a good turn , and then trying to catch me the very next time he sees me .
I do n't understand it , '' said Peter , shaking his head , `` Oh , you dear old stupid ! ''
replied little Mrs. Peter .
`` Now , you listen to me .
You did Old Man Coyote a good turn and he paid you back by doing you a good turn .
That made you even , did n't it ? ''
Peter nodded .
`` Well , then you are right back where you started from , and Old Man Coyote does n't see any reason why he should treat you any differently than at first , and I do n't see why he should either , when I come to think it over .
I tell you what , Peter , the thing for you to do is to keep doing good turns to Old Man Coyote so that he will always be in debt to you .
Then he will always be your friend , '' As little Mrs. Peter stopped speaking , Peter sprang to his feet .
`` The very thing ! ''
he cried .
`` It 's sort of a Golden Rule , and I do believe it will work . ''
`` Of course it will , '' replied little Mrs. Peter .
CHAPTER XXVII MISTAH MOCKER PLAYS A JOKE ON MRS. PETER This little point remember , please -- There 's little gained by those who tease .
Peter Rabbit .
Mistah Mocker the Mockingbird had been very late in coming up to the Green Meadows from way down South .
The truth is , he had almost decided not to come .
You see , he loves the sunny south-land so much , and all who live there love him so much , that if it had n't been for Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol' Mistah Buzzard he never , never would have thought of leaving , even for a little while .
Unc ' Billy and Ol' Mistah Buzzard are particular friends of his , very particular friends , and he felt that he just had to come up for a little visit .
Now Mistah Mocker reached the Green Meadows just after Peter Rabbit had brought little Mrs. Peter down from the Old Pasture to live with him in the dear Old Briar-patch .
He knew that little Mrs. Peter did n't know anything about him , for he never had visited the Old Pasture where she had spent her life .
But he knew all the bird people who do live there , for he had met them in the sunny southland , where they spent the winter , `` I believe I 'll go pay my respects to Mrs. Peter , '' said Mistah Mocker one day , winking at Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard chuckled and winked back .
`` Ah cert ` nly hopes yo'all will behave yo ` self right proper and not forget that yo ' is a member of one of the oldest families in the Souf , '' said he .
Mistah Mocker looked quite solemn as he promised to behave himself , but there was a twinkle in his eyes as he flew toward the Old Briar-patch .
There he hid in a thick tangle of vines .
Now it happened that Peter Rabbit had gone over to the sweet-clover patch , and little Mrs. Peter was quite alone .
Somehow she got to thinking of her old home , and for the first time she began to feel just a wee , wee bit homesick .
It was just then that she heard a familiar voice .
Little Mrs. Peter pricked up her ears and smiled happily .
`` That 's the voice of Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and it must be that his wife is with him , for I hear him calling ` Phoebe !
Phoebe ! '
How lovely of them to come down to see me so soon . ''
Just then she heard another voice , a deep , beautiful , ringing voice , a voice that she loved .
It was the voice of Veery the Thrush .
`` Oh ! ''
cried little Mrs. Peter , and then held her breath so as not to miss one note of the beautiful song .
Hardly had the song ended when she heard the familiar voice of Redeye the Vireo .
Little Mrs. Peter clapped her hands happily .
`` It must be a surprise party by my old friends and neighbors of the Old Pasture ! ''
she cried .
`` How good of them to come way down here , and how glad I shall be to see them ! ''
With that little Mrs. Peter hurried over to the tangle of vines from which all the voices seemed to come and eagerly peered this way and that way for a sight of her friends .
But all she saw was a stranger wearing a very sober-colored suit .
He was very polite and told her that he was an old friend of Peter Rabbit .
`` If you are a friend of Peter , then you are a friend of mine . ''
said little Mrs. Peter very prettily .
`` Have you seen anybody in this tangle of vines since you arrived ?
I am sure some friends of mine are here , but I have n't been able to find them . ''
`` No , '' said the stranger , who was , of course , Mistah Mocker the Mockingbird .
`` I have n't seen any one here , and I do n't think there has been any one here but myself . ''
`` Oh , yes , indeed there has ! ''
cried little Mrs. Peter .
`` I heard their voices , and I could n't possibly be mistaken in those , especially the beautiful voice of Veery the Thrush , I -- I would like very much to find them . ''
Mistah Mocker had the grace to look ashamed of himself when saw how disappointed little Mrs. Peter was .
Very softly he began to sing the song of Veery the Thrush .
Little Mrs. Peter looked up quickly .
`` There it is ! ''
she cried .
`` There '' -- she stopped with her mouth gaping wide open .
She suddenly realized that it was Mistah Mocker who was singing .
`` I -- I 'm very sorry , '' he stammered .
`` I did it just for a joke and not to make you feel bad .
Will you forgive me ? ''
`` Yes , '' replied little Mrs. Peter , `` if you will come here often at shadow-time and sing to me . ''
And Mistah Mocker promised that he would .
CHAPTER XXVIII NEWS FROM THE OLD BRIAR-PATCH To use your eyes is very wise And much to be commended ; But never see what can not be For such as you intended .
Peter Rabbit .
Jenny Wren is a busybody .
Yes , Sir , she certainly is a busybody .
If there is anything going on in her neighborhood that she does n't know about , it is n't because she does n't try to find out .
She is so small and spry that it is hard work to keep track of her , and she pops out at the most unexpected times and places .
Then , before you can say a word , she is gone .
And in all the Old Orchard or on the Green Meadows there is not to be found another tongue so busy as that of Jenny Wren .
It is sharp sometimes , but when she wants it to be so there is none smoother .
You see she is a great gossip , is Jenny Wren , a great gossip .
But if you get on the right side of Jenny Wren and ask her to keep a secret , she 'll do it .
No one knows how to keep a secret better than she does .
How it happened nobody knows , but it did happen that when Peter Rabbit came home to the clear Old Briar-patch , bringing Mrs. Peter with him , Jenny Wren did n't hear about it .
Probably it was because the new home which she had just completed was so carefully hidden that the messengers sent by Peter to invite all his friends to call did n't find it , and afterward she was so busy with household affairs that she did n't have time to gossip .
Anyway , Peter had been back some time before Jenny Wren knew it .
She was quite upset to think that she was the last to hear the news , but she consoled herself with the thought that she had been attending strictly to her duties , and now that her children were able to look out for themselves she could make up for lost time .
Just as soon as she could get away , she started for the Old Briar-patch .
She wanted to hear all about Peter 's adventures in the Old Pasture and to meet Mrs. Peter .
But like a great many other busybodies , she wanted to find out all she could about Peter 's affairs , and she thought that the surest way to do it was not to let Peter know that she was about until she had had a chance to use her sharp little eyes all she wanted to .
So when she reached the Old Briar-patch , she did n't make a sound .
It did n't take her long to find Peter .
He was sitting under one of his favorite bramble-bushes smiling to himself .
He smiled and smiled until Jenny Wren had to bite her tongue to keep from asking what was pleasing him so .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` THE QUICKEST WAY FOR ME TO KNOW IS FOR YOU TO TELL ME , '' REPLIED JIMMY . -RSB-
`` He looks tickled almost to death over something , but very likely if I should ask him what it is he would n't tell me , '' thought Jenny Wren .
`` I guess I 'll look around a bit first .
I wonder where Mrs. Peter is . ''
So leaving Peter to smile to his heart 's content , she went peeking and peering through the Old Briar-patch .
Of course it was n't a nice thing to do , not a bit nice .
But Jenny Wren did n't stop to think of that .
By and by she saw something that made her flutter all over with excitement .
She looked and looked until she could sit still no longer .
Then she hurried back to where Peter was sitting .
He was still smiling .
`` Oh , Peter Rabbit , it 's perfectly lovely ! ''
she cried .
Peter looked up quickly , and a worried look chased the smile away .
`` Hello , Jenny Wren !
Where did you come from ?
I have n't seen you since I got back , '' said he .
`` I 've been so busy that I have n't had time to call before , '' replied Jenny .
`` I know what you 've been smiling about , Peter , and it 's perfectly splendid .
Has everybody heard the news ? ''
`` No , '' said Peter , `` nobody knows it but you , and I do n't want anybody else to know it just yet .
Will you keep it a secret , Jenny Wren ? ''
Now Jenny was just bursting with desire to spread the news , but Peter looked so anxious that finally she promised that she would keep it to herself , and she really meant to .
But though Peter looked greatly relieved as he watched her start for home , he did n't smile as he had before .
`` I wish her tongue did n't wag so much , '' said he .
CHAPTER XXIX JIMMY SKUNK VISITS PETER RABBIT It 's hard to keep a secret which you fairly ache to tell ; So not to know such secrets is often quite as well .
Peter Rabbit .
On her way home from the Old Briar-patch , Jenny Wren stopped to rest in a bush beside the Crooked Little Path that comes down the hill , when who should come along but Jimmy Skunk .
Now just as usual Jenny Wren was fidgeting and fussing about , and Jimmy Skunk grinned as he watched her .
`` Hello , Jenny Wren ! ''
said he .
`` What are you doing here ? ''
`` I 'm resting on my way home from the Old Briar-patch , if you must know , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
replied Jenny Wren , changing her position half a dozen times while she was speaking .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
laughed Jimmy Skunk .
`` Do you call that resting !
That 's a joke , Jenny Wren .
Resting !
Why , you could n't sit still and rest if you tried ! ''
`` I could so !
I 'm resting right now , so there , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
protested Jenny Wren in a very indignant tone of voice , and hopped all over the little bush while she was speaking .
`` I guess if you knew what I know , you 'd be excited too . ''
`` Well , I guess the quickest way for me to know is for you to tell me , '' replied Jimmy .
`` I 'm just aching to be excited . ''
Jimmy grinned , for you know Jimmy Skunk never does get excited and never hurries , no matter what happens .
`` You 'll have to keep right on aching then , '' replied Jenny Wren , with a saucy flirt of her funny little tail .
`` There 's great news in the Old Briar-patch , and I 'm the only one that knows it , but I 've promised not to tell . ''
Jimmy pricked up his ears .
`` News in the Old Briar-patch must have something to do with Peter Rabbit , '' said he .
`` What has Peter done now ? ''
`` I 'll never tell !
I 'll never tell ! ''
cried Jenny Wren , growing so excited that it seemed to Jimmy as if there was danger that she would turn herself inside out .
`` I promised not to and I never will ! ''
Then , for fear that she would in spite of herself , she flew on her way home .
Jimmy watched her out of sight with a puzzled frown .
`` If I did n't know that she gets so terribly excited over nothing , I 'd think that there really is some news in the Old Briar-patch , '' he muttered to himself .
`` Anyway , I have n't anything better to do , so I believe I 'll drop around that way and make Peter Rabbit a call . ''
He found Peter in some sweet clover just outside the Old Briar-patch , and it struck Jimmy that Peter looked uncommonly happy .
He said as much .
`` I am , '' replied Peter , before he thought .
Then he added hastily , `` You see , I 've been uncommonly happy ever since I returned with Mrs. Peter from the Old Pasture . ''
`` But I hear there 's great news over here in the Old Briar-patch , '' persisted Jimmy Skunk .
`` What is it , Peter ? ''
Peter pretended to be very much surprised .
`` Great news ! ''
he repeated .
`` Great news !
Why , what news can there be over here ?
Who told you that ? ''
`` A little bird told me , '' replied Jimmy slyly .
`` It must have been Jenny Wren ! ''
said Peter , once more speaking before he thought .
`` Then there IS news over here ! ''
cried Jimmy triumphantly .
`` What is it , Peter ? ''
But Peter shook his head as if he had n't the slightest idea and could n't imagine .
Jimmy coaxed and teased , but all in vain .
Finally he started for home no wiser than before .
`` Just the same , I believe that Jenny Wren told the truth and that there is news over in the Old Briar-patch , '' he muttered to himself .
`` Something has happened over there , and Peter wo n't tell .
I wonder what it can be . ''
CHAPTER XXX REDDY FOX LEARNS THE SECRET Nothing that you ever do , Nothing good or nothing bad , But has effect on other folks -- Gives them pain or makes them glad .
Peter Rabbit .
Of course Jenny Wren did n't mean to tell the secret of the Old Briar - patch , because she had promised Peter Rabbit that she would n't .
But she did n't see any harm in telling every one she met that there was a secret there , at least that there was great news there , and so , because Jenny Wren is a great gossip , it was n't long before all the little people on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest and around the Smiling Pool had heard it and were wondering what the news could be .
After Jimmy Skunk 's visit came a whole string of visitors to the Old Briar-patch .
One would hardly have left before another would appear .
Each one tried to act as if he had just happened around that way and did n't want to pass Peter 's home without making a call , but each one asked so many questions that Peter knew what had really brought him there was the desire to find out what the news in the Old Briar-patch could be .
But Peter was too smart for them , and they all went away no wiser than they came , that is , all but one , and that one was Reddy Fox .
There is n't much going on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that Reddy does n't know about .
He is sly , is Reddy Fox , and his eyes are sharp and his ears are keen , so little happens that he does n't see or hear about .
Of course he heard the foolish gossip of Jenny Wren and he pricked up his ears .
`` So there 's news down in the Old Briar-patch , is there ?
A secret that Jenny Wren wo n't tell ?
I think I 'll trot down there and make Peter a call .
Of course he 'll be glad to see me . ''
Reddy grinned wickedly as he said this to himself , for he knew that there was no one for whom Peter Rabbit had less love , unless it was old Granny Fox .
So Reddy trotted down to the Old Briar-patch .
Peter saw him coming and scowled , for he guessed right away what Reddy was coming for , and he made ready to answer all Reddy 's questions and still tell him nothing , as he had with all the others who had called .
But Reddy asked no questions .
He did n't once mention the fact that he had heard there was news in the Old Briar-patch .
He did n't once speak of Jenny Wren .
He just talked about the weather and the Old Pasture , where Peter had made such a long visit , and all the time was as pleasant and polite as if he and Peter were the dearest of friends .
But while he was talking , Reddy was using those sharp eyes and those keen ears of his the best he knew how .
But the Old Briar-patch was very thick , and he could see only a little way into it , and out of it came no sound to hint of a secret there .
Then Reddy began to walk around the Old Briar-patch in quite the most matter-of-fact way , but as he walked that wonderful nose of his was testing every little breath of air that came out of the Old Briar-patch .
At last he reached a certain place where a little stronger breath of air tickled his nose .
He stopped for a few minutes , and slowly a smile grew and grew .
Then , without saying a word , he turned and trotted back towards the Green Forest .
Peter Rabbit watched him go .
Then he joined Mrs. Peter in the heart of the Old Briar-patch .
`` My dear , '' he said , with a sigh that was almost a sob , `` Reddy Fox has found out our secret . ''
`` Never mind , '' said little Mrs. Peter brightly .
`` It would have to be found out soon , anyway . ''
Trotting back up the Lone Little Path , Reddy Fox was grinning broadly .
`` It IS news ! ''
said he .
`` Jenny Wren was right , it IS news !
But I do n't believe anybody else knows it yet , and I hope they wo n't find it out right away , least of all Old Man Coyote .
What a wonderful thing a good nose is !
It tells me what my eyes can not see nor my ears hear . ''
CHAPTER XXXI BLACKY THE CROW HAS SHARP EYES Mischief always waits to greet Idle hands and idle feet .
Peter Rabbit .
That is what a lot of people say about Blacky the Crow .
Of course it is true that Blacky does get into a lot of mischief , but if people really knew him they would find that he is n't as black as he looks .
In fact , Blacky the Crow does a whole lot of good in his own peculiar way , but people are always looking for him to do bad things , and you know you most always see what you expect to see .
Thus the good Blacky does is n't seen , while the bad is , and so he has grown to have a reputation blacker than the coat he wears .
But this does n't worry Blacky the Crow .
No , Sir , it does n't worry him a bit .
You see he has grown used to it .
And then he is so smart that he is never afraid of being caught when he does do wrong things .
No one has sharper eyes than Blacky , and no one knows better how to use them .
There is very little going on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that he misses when he is about .
The day after Reddy Fox visited the Old Briar-patch and with his wonderful nose found out Peter Rabbit 's secret , Blacky just happened to fly over the Old Briar-patch on his way to Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
Now , being over the Old Briar-patch , he could look right down into it and see all through it .
Just as he reached it , he remembered having heard Sammy Jay say something about gossipy little Jenny Wren 's having said that there was great news there .
He had n't thought much about it at the time , but now that he was right there , he might as well have a look for himself and see if there was any truth in it .
So Blacky the Crow flew a little lower , and his sharp eyes looked this way and that way through all the bramble-bushes of the Old Briar-patch .
He saw Peter Rabbit right away and winked at him .
He thought Peter looked worried and anxious .
`` Peter must have something on his mind , '' thought Blacky .
`` I wonder where Mrs. Peter is . ''
Just then he caught sight of her under the thickest growing sweet-briar bush .
He had opened his mouth to shout , `` Hello , Mrs. Peter , '' when he saw something that surprised him so that he did n't speak at all .
He almost forgot to flap his wings to keep himself in the air .
He hovered right where he was for a few minutes , looking down through the brambles .
Then with a hoarse chuckle , he started for the Smiling Pool , forgetting all about Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
he shrieked , `` Peter Rabbit 's got a family !
Peter Rabbit 's got a family ! ''
Reddy Fox heard him and ground his teeth .
`` Now Old Man Coyote will know and will try to catch those young Rabbits , when they ought to be mine because I found out about them first , '' he grumbled .
Jimmy Skunk heard Blacky and grinned broadly .
`` So that 's the great news Jenny Wren found out ! ''
said he .
`` I hope Peter will take better care of his babies than he ever has of himself .
I must call at once . ''
Redtail the Hawk heard , and he smiled too , but it was n't a kindly smile like Jimmy Skunk 's .
`` I think young Rabbit will taste very good for a change , '' said he .
CHAPTER XXXII PETER RABBIT 'S NURSERY With home , the home you call your own , It really does n't matter where , There is no place , in all the world , That ever will or can compare .
Peter Rabbit .
The news was out at last , thanks to Blacky the Crow .
Peter Rabbit had a family !
Yes , Sir , Peter Rabbit had a family !
Right away the Old Briar - patch became the most interesting place on the Green Meadows to all the little people who live there and in the near-by Green Forest .
Of course all of Peter 's friends called as soon as ever they could .
They found Peter looking very proud , and very important , and very happy .
Mrs. Peter looked just as proud , and just as happy , but she also looked very anxious .
You see , while she was very glad to have so many friends call , there were also other visitors .
That is , they were not exactly callers , but they hung around the outside of the Old Briar-patch , and they seemed quite as much interested as the friends who really called .
Indeed , they seemed more interested .
Who were they ?
Why , Reddy Fox was one .
Then there was Old Man Coyote , also Redtail the Hawk and Digger the Badger , and just at dusk Hooty the Owl .
They all seemed very much interested indeed , but every time little Mrs. Peter saw them , she shivered .
You see , she could n't help thinking that there was a dreadful , hungry look in their eyes , and if the truth is to be told , there probably was .
But happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit did n't let this worry him .
Had n't he grown up from a teeny-weeny baby and been smart enough to escape all these dangers which worried Mrs. Peter so ?
And if he could do it , of course his own babies could do it , with him to teach them and show them how .
Besides , they were too little to go outside of the Old Briar-patch now .
Indeed , they were too little to go outside their nursery , which was in a clump of sweet-briar bushes in the very middle of the Old Briar - patch , and Peter felt that there they were perfectly safe .
`` It is n't time to worry yet , '' said Peter to little Mrs. Peter , as he saw the fright in her eyes as the shadow of Redtail passed over them .
`` I do n't believe in borrowing trouble .
Time enough to worry when there is something to worry about , and that wo n't be until these little scallawags of ours are big enough to run around and get into mischief .
Did you ever see such beautiful babies in all your life ? ''
For a minute the worried look left little Mrs. Peter , and she gazed at the four little helpless babies fondly .
`` No , '' she replied softly , `` I never did .
Oh , Peter , they are perfectly lovely !
This one is the perfect image of you , and I 'm going to call him Little Pete .
And do n't you think his brother looks like his grandfather ?
I think we 'll call him Little Jed . ''
Peter coughed behind his hand as if something had stuck in his throat .
He had no love for Little Jed 's grandfather , Old Jed Thumper , the big , gray , old Rabbit who had tried so hard to drive him from the Old Pasture , but he did n't say anything .
If Mrs. Peter wanted to name this one Little Jed , he would n't say a word .
Aloud he said : `` I think , my dear , that this one looks just as you must have looked when you were little , and so we 'll call her Fuzzy .
And her sister we 'll call Wuzzy , '' continued Peter .
`` Was ever there such a splendid nursery for baby Rabbits ? ''
`` I do n't believe there ever was , Peter .
It 's better than my old nursery in the Old Pasture , '' replied little Mrs. Peter , as with a sigh of perfect happiness she stretched out beside their four babies .
And Peter softly tiptoed away to the nearest sweet-clover patch with his heart almost bursting with pride .
Of the doings of Peter and Mrs. Peter Rabbit and their four children there are many more stories , so many that one book will not hold all of them .
Besides , Bowser the Hound insists that I must write a book about him , and I have promised to do it right away .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Old_Granny_Fox.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Reddy Fox Brings Granny News Pray who is there who would refuse To bearer be of happy news ?
-- Old Granny Fox .
Snow covered the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and ice bound the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook .
Reddy and Granny Fox were hungry most of the time .
It was not easy to find enough to eat these days , and so they spent nearly every minute they were awake in hunting .
Sometimes they hunted together , but usually one went one way , and the other went another way so as to have a greater chance of finding something .
If either found enough for two , the one finding it took the food back to their home if it could be carried .
If not , the other was told where to find it .
For several days they had had very little indeed to eat , and they were so hungry that they were willing to take almost any chance to get a good meal .
For two nights they had visited Farmer Brown 's henhouse , hoping that they would be able to find a way inside .
But the biddies had been securely locked up , and try as they would , they could n't find a way in .
`` It 's of no use , '' said Granny , as they started back home after the second try , `` to hope to get one of those hens at night .
If we are going to get any at all , we will have to do it in broad daylight .
It can be done , for I have done it before , but I do n't like the idea .
We are likely to be seen , and that means that Bowser the Hound will be set to hunting us . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
exclaimed Reddy .
`` What of it ?
It 's easy enough to fool him . ''
`` You think so , do you ? ''
snapped Granny .
`` I never yet saw a young Fox who did n't think he knew all there is to know , and you 're just like the rest .
When you 've lived as long as I have you will have learned not to be quite so sure of your own opinions .
I grant you that when there is no snow on the ground , any Fox with a reasonable amount of Fox sense in his head can fool Bowser , but with snow everywhere it is a very different matter .
If Bowser once takes it into his head to follow your trail these days , you will have to be smarter than I think you are to fool him .
The only way you will be able to get away from him will be by going into a hole in the ground , and when you do that you will have given away a secret that will mean we will never have any peace at all .
We will never know when Farmer Brown 's boy will take it into his head to smoke us out .
I 've seen it done .
No , Sir , we are not going to try for one of those hens in the daytime unless we are starving . ''
`` I 'm starving now , '' whined Reddy .
`` No such thing ! ''
Granny snapped .
`` I 've been without food longer than this many a time .
Have you been over to the Big River lately ? ''
`` No , '' replied Reddy .
`` What 's the use ?
It 's frozen over .
There is n't anything there . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' replied Granny , `` but I learned a long time ago that it is a poor plan to overlook any chance .
There is a place in the Big River which never freezes because the water runs too swiftly to freeze , and I 've found more than one meal washed ashore there .
You go over there now while I see what I can find in the Green Forest .
If neither of us finds anything , it will be time enough to think about Farmer Brown 's hens to-morrow . ''
Much against his will Reddy obeyed .
`` It is n't the least bit of use , '' he grumbled , as he trotted towards the Big River .
`` There wo n't be anything there .
It is just a waste of time . ''
Late that afternoon he came hurrying back , and Granny knew by the way that he cocked his ears and carried his tail that he had news of some kind .
`` Well , what is it ? ''
she demanded .
`` I found a dead fish that had been washed ashore , '' replied Reddy .
`` It was n't big enough for two , so I ate it . ''
`` Anything else ? ''
asked Granny .
`` No-o , '' replied Reddy slowly ; `` that is , nothing that will do us any good .
Quacker the Wild Duck was swimming about out in the open water , but though I watched and watched he never once came ashore . ''
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Granny .
`` That is good news .
I think we 'll go Duck hunting . ''
CHAPTER II : Granny And Reddy Fox Go Hunting When you 're in doubt what course is right , The thing to do is just sit tight .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun had just got well started on his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky that morning when he spied two figures trotting across the snow-covered Green Meadows , one behind the other .
They were trotting along quite as if they had made up their minds just where they were going .
They had .
You see they were Granny and Reddy Fox , and they were bound for the Big River at the place where the water ran too swiftly to freeze .
The day before Reddy had discovered Quacker the Wild Duck swimming about there , and now they were on their way to try to catch him .
Granny led the way and Reddy meekly followed her .
To tell the truth , Reddy had n't the least idea that they would have a chance to catch Quacker , because Quacker kept out in the water where he was as safe from them as if they were a thousand miles away .
The only reason that Reddy had willingly started with Granny was the hope that he might find a dead fish washed up on the shore as he had the day before .
`` Granny certainly is growing foolish in her old age , '' thought Reddy , as he trotted along behind her .
`` I told her that Quacker never once came ashore all the time I watched yesterday .
I do n't believe he ever comes ashore , and if she knows anything at all she ought to know that she ca n't catch him out there in the water .
Granny used to be smart enough when she was young , I guess , but she certainly is losing her mind now .
It 's a pity , a great pity .
I can just imagine how Quacker will laugh at her .
I have to laugh myself . ''
He did laugh , but you may be sure he took great pains that Granny should not see him laughing .
Whenever she looked around he was as sober as could be .
In fact , he appeared to be quite as eager as if he felt sure they would catch Quacker .
Now old Granny Fox is very wise in the ways of the Great World , and if Reddy could have known what was going on in her mind as she led the way to the Big River , he might not have felt quite so sure of his own smartness .
Granny was doing some quiet laughing herself .
`` He thinks I 'm old and foolish and do n't know what I 'm about , the young scamp ! ''
thought she .
`` He thinks he has learned all there is to learn .
It is n't the least use in the world to try to tell him anything .
When young folks feel the way he does , it is a waste of time to talk to them .
He has got to be shown .
There is nothing like experience to take the conceit out of these youngsters . ''
Now conceit is the feeling that you know more than any one else .
Perhaps you do .
Then again , perhaps you do n't .
So sometimes it is best not to be too sure of your own opinion .
Reddy was sure .
He trotted along behind old Granny Fox and planned smart things to say to her when she found that there was n't a chance to catch Quacker the Duck .
I am afraid , very much afraid , that Reddy was planning to be saucy .
People who think themselves smart are quite apt to be saucy .
Presently they came to the bank of the Big River .
Old Granny Fox told Reddy to sit still while she crept up behind some bushes where she could peek out over the Big River .
He grinned as he watched her .
He was still grinning when she tiptoed back .
He expected to see her face long with disappointment .
Instead she looked very much pleased .
`` Quacker is there , '' said she , `` and I think he will make us a very good dinner .
Creep up behind those bushes and see for yourself , then come back here and tell me what you think we 'd better do to get him . ''
So Reddy stole up behind the bushes , and this time it was Granny who grinned as she watched .
As he crept along , Reddy wondered if it could be that for once Quacker had come ashore .
Granny seemed so sure they could catch him that this must be the case .
But when he peeped through the hushes , there was Quacker way out in the middle of the open water just where he had been the day before .
CHAPTER III : Reddy Is Sure Granny Has Lost Her Senses Perhaps 't is just as well that we Ca n't see ourselves as others see .
-- Old Granny Fox .
`` Just as I thought , '' muttered Reddy Fox as he peeped through the bushes on the bank of the Big River and saw Quacker swimming about in the water where it ran too swiftly to freeze .
`` We 've got just as much chance of catching him as I have of jumping over the moon .
That 's what I 'll tell Granny . ''
He crept back carefully so as not to be seen by Quacker , and when he had reached the place where Granny was waiting for him , his face wore a very impudent look .
`` Well , '' said Granny Fox , `` what shall we do to catch him ? ''
`` Learn to swim like a fish and fly like a bird , '' replied Reddy in such a saucy tone that Granny had hard work to keep from boxing his ears .
`` You mean that you think he ca n't be caught ? ''
said she quietly .
`` I do n't think anything about it ; I know he ca n't ! ''
snapped Reddy .
`` Not by us , anyway , '' he added .
`` I suppose you would n't even try ? ''
retorted Granny .
`` I 'm old enough to know when I 'm wasting my time , '' replied Reddy with a toss of his head .
`` In other words you think I 'm a silly old Fox who has lost her senses , '' said Granny sharply .
`` No-o .
I did n't say that , '' protested Reddy , looking very uncomfortable .
`` But you think it , '' declared Granny .
`` Now look here , Mr. Smarty , you do just as I tell you .
You creep back there where you can watch Quacker and all that happens , and mind that you keep out of his sight .
Now go . ''
Reddy went .
There was nothing else to do .
He did n't dare disobey .
Granny watched until Reddy had readied his hiding-place .
Then what do you think she did ?
Why , she walked right out on the little beach just below Reddy and in plain sight of Quacker !
Yes , Sir , that is what she did !
Then began such a queer performance that it is no wonder that Reddy was sure Granny had lost her senses .
She rolled over and over .
She chased her tail round and round until it made Reddy dizzy to watch her .
She jumped up in the air .
She raced back and forth .
She played with a bit of stick .
And all the time she did n't pay the least attention to Quacker the Duck .
Reddy stared and stared .
Whatever had come over Granny ?
She was crazy .
Yes , Sir , that must be the matter .
It must be that she had gone without food so long that she had gone crazy .
Poor Granny !
She was in her second childhood .
Reddy could remember how he had done such things when he was very young , just by way of showing how fine he felt .
But for a grown-up Fox to do such things was undignified , to say the least .
You know Reddy thinks a great deal of dignity .
It was worse than undignified ; it was positively disgraceful .
He did hope that none of his neighbors would happen along and see Granny cutting up so .
He never would hear the end of it if they did .
Over and over rolled Granny , and around and around she chased her tail .
The snow flew up in a cloud .
And all the time she made no sound .
Reddy was just trying to decide whether to go off and leave her until she had regained her common sense , or to go out and try to stop her , when he happened to look out in the open water where Quacker was .
Quacker was sitting up as straight as he could .
In fact , he had his wings raised to help him sit up on his tail , the better to see what old Granny Fox was doing .
`` As I live , '' muttered Reddy , `` I believe that fellow is nearer than he was ! ''
Reddy crouched lower than ever , and instead of watching Granny he watched Quacker the Duck .
CHAPTER IV : Quacker The Duck Grows Curious The most curious thing in the world is curiosity .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Old Granny Fox never said a truer thing than that .
It is curious , very curious , how sometimes curiosity will get the best of even the wisest and most sensible of people .
Even Old Granny Fox herself has been known to be led into trouble by it .
We expect it of Peter Rabbit , but Peter is n't a bit more curious than some others of whom we do not expect it .
Now Quacker the Wild Duck is the last one in the world you would expect to be led into trouble by curiosity .
Quacker had spent the summer in the Far North with Honker the Goose .
In fact , he had been born there .
He had started for the far away Southland at the same time Honker had , but when he reached the Big River he had found plenty to eat and had decided to stay until he had to move on .
The Big River had frozen over everywhere except in this one place where the water was too swift to freeze , and there Quacker had remained .
You see , he was a good diver and on the bottom of the river he found plenty to eat .
No one could get at him out there , unless it were Roughleg the Hawk , and if Roughleg did happen along , all he had to do was to dive and come up far away to laugh and make fun of Roughleg .
The water could n't get through his oily feathers , and so he did n't mind how cold it was .
Now in his home in the Far North there were so many dangers that Quacker had early learned to be always on the watch and to take the best of care of himself .
On his way down to the Big River he had been hunted by men with terrible guns , and he had learned all about them .
In fact , he felt quite able to keep out of harm 's way .
He rather prided himself that there was no one smart enough to catch him .
I suspect he thought he knew all there was to know .
In this respect he was a good deal like Reddy Fox himself .
That was because he was young .
It is the way with young Ducks and Foxes and with some other youngsters I know .
When Quacker first saw Granny Fox on the little beach , he flirted his absurd little tail and smiled as he thought how she must wish she could catch him .
But so far as he could see , Granny did n't once look at him .
`` She does n't know I 'm out here at all , '' thought Quacker .
Then suddenly he sat up very straight and looked with all his might .
What under the sun was the matter with that Fox ?
She was acting as if she had suddenly lost her senses .
Over and over she rolled .
Around and around she spun .
She turned somersaults .
She lay on her back and kicked her heels in the air .
Never in his life had he known any one to act like that .
There must be something the matter with her .
Quacker began to get excited .
He could n't keep his eyes off Old Granny Fox .
He began to swim nearer .
He wanted to see better .
He quite forgot she was a Fox .
She moved so fast that she was just a queer red spot on the beach .
Whatever she was doing was very curious and very exciting .
He swam nearer and nearer .
The excitement was catching .
He began to swim in circles himself .
All the time he drew nearer and nearer to the shore .
He did n't have the least bit of fear .
He was just curious .
He wanted to see better .
All the time Granny was cutting up her antics , she was watching Quacker , though he did n't suspect it .
As he swam nearer and nearer to the shore , Granny rolled and tumbled farther and farther back .
At last Quacker was close to the shore .
If he kept on , he would be right on the land in a few minutes .
And all the time he stared and stared .
No thought of danger entered his head .
You see , there was no room because it was so filled with curiosity .
`` In a minute more I 'll have him , '' thought Granny , and whirled faster than ever .
And just then something happened .
CHAPTER V : Reddy Fox Is Afraid To Go Home Yes , Sir , a chicken track is good to see , but it often puts nothing but water in my mouth .
-- Old Granny Fox .
Reddy Fox thought of that saying many times as he hunted through the Green Forest that night , afraid to go home .
You see , he had almost dined on Quacker the Duck over at the Big River that day and then had n't , and it was all his own fault .
That was why he was afraid to go home .
From his hiding-place on the bank he had watched Quacker swim in and in until he was almost on the shore where old Granny Fox was whirling and rolling and tumbling about as if she had entirely lost her senses .
Indeed , Reddy had been quite sure that she had when she began .
It was n't until he saw that curiosity was drawing Quacker right in so that in a minute or two Granny would be able to catch him , that he understood that Granny was anything but crazy , and really was teaching him a new trick as well as trying to catch a dinner .
When he realized this , he should have been ashamed of himself for doubting the smartness of Granny and for thinking that he knew all there was to know .
But he was too much excited for any such thoughts .
Nearer and nearer to the shore came Quacker , his eyes fixed on the red , whirling form of Granny .
Reddy 's own eyes gleamed with excitement .
Would Quacker keep on right up to the shore ?
Nearer and nearer and nearer he came .
Reddy squirmed uneasily .
He could n't see as well as he wanted to .
The bushes behind which he was lying were in his way .
He wanted to see Granny make that jump which would mean a dinner for both .
Forgetting what Granny had charged him , Reddy eagerly raised his head to look over the edge of the bank .
Now it just happened that at that very minute Quacker chanced to look that way .
His quick eyes caught the movement of Reddy 's head and in an instant all his curiosity vanished .
That sharp face peering at him over the edge of the bank could mean but one thing -- danger !
It was all a trick !
He saw through it now .
Like a flash he turned .
There was the whistle of stiff wings beating the air and the patter of feet striking the water as he got under way .
Then he flew out to the safety of the open water .
Granny sprang , but she was just too late and succeeded in doing no more than wet her feet .
Of course , Granny did n't know what had frightened Quacker , not at first , anyway .
But she had her suspicions .
She turned and looked up at the place where Reddy had been hiding .
She could n't see him .
Then she bounded up the bank .
There was no Reddy there , but far away across the snow-covered Green Meadows was a red spot growing smaller and smaller .
Reddy was running away .
Then she knew .
At first Granny was very angry .
You know it is a dreadful thing to be hungry and have a good dinner disappear just as it is almost within reach .
`` I 'll teach that young scamp a lesson he wo n't soon forget when I get home , '' she muttered , as she watched him .
Then she went back to the edge of the Big River and there she found a dead fish which had been washed ashore .
It was a very good fish , and when she had eaten it Granny felt better .
`` Anyway , '' thought she , `` I have taught him a new trick and one he is n't likely to forget .
He knows now that Granny still knows a few tricks that he does n't , and next time he wo n't feel so sure he knows it all .
I guess it was worth while even if I did n't catch Quacker .
My , but he would have tasted good ! ''
Granny smacked her lips and started for home .
But Reddy , with a guilty conscience , was afraid to go home .
And so , miserable and hungry , he hunted through the Green Forest all the long night and wished and wished that he had heeded what old Granny Fox had told him .
CHAPTER VI : Old Granny Fox Is Caught Napping The wisest folks will make mistakes , but if they are truly wise they will profit from them .
-- Old Granny Fox .
There is a saying among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows which runs something like this : `` You must your eyes wide open keep To catch Old Granny Fox asleep . ''
Of course this means that Old Granny Fox is so smart , so clever , so keenly on the watch at all times , that he must be very smart indeed who fools her or gets ahead of her .
Reddy Fox is smart , very smart .
But Reddy is n't nearly as smart as Old Granny Fox .
You see , he has n't lived nearly as long , so of course there is much knowledge of many things stored away in Granny 's head of which Reddy knows little .
But once in a while even the smartest people are caught napping .
Yes , Sir , that does happen .
They will be careless sometimes .
It was just so with Old Granny Fox .
With all her smartness and cleverness and wisdom she grew careless , and all the smartness and cleverness and wisdom in the world is useless if the possessor becomes careless .
You see , Old Granny Fox had become so used to thinking that she was smarter than any one else , unless it was Old Man Coyote , that she actually believed that no one was smart enough ever to surprise her .
Yes , Sir , she actually believed that .
Now , you know when a person reaches the point of thinking that no one else in all the Great World is quite so smart , that person is like Peter Rabbit when he made ready one winter day to jump out on the smooth ice of the Smiling Pool , -- getting ready for a fall .
It was this way with Old Granny Fox .
Because she had lived near Farmer Brown 's so long and had been hunted so often by Farmer Brown 's boy and by Bowser the Hound , she had got the idea in her head that no matter what she did they would not be able to catch her .
So at last she grew careless .
Yes , Sir , she grew careless .
And that is something no Fox or anybody else can afford to do .
Now on the edge of the Green Forest was a warm , sunny knoll , which , as you know , is a sort of little hill .
It overlooked the Green Meadows and was quite the most pleasant and comfortable place for a sun-nap that ever was .
At least , that is what Old Granny Fox thought .
She took sun-naps there very often .
It was her favorite resting place .
When Bowser the Hound had found her trail and had chased her until she was tired of running and had had quite all the exercise she needed or wanted , she would play one of her clever tricks by which to make Bowser lose her trail .
Then she would hurry straight to that knoll to rest and grin at her own smartness .
It happened that she did this one day when there was fresh snow on the ground .
Of course , every time she put a foot down she left a print in the snow .
And where she curled up in the sun she left the print of her body .
They were very plain to see , were these prints , and Farmer Brown 's boy saw them .
He had been tramping through the Green Forest late in the afternoon and just by chance happened across Granny 's footprints .
Just for fun he followed them and so came to the sunny knoll .
Granny had left some time before , but of course she could n't take the print of her body with her .
That remained in the snow , and Farmer Brown 's boy saw it and knew instantly what it meant .
He grinned , and could Granny Fox have seen that grin , she would have been uncomfortable .
