Then the bear laughed beneath the table and muttered to itself .
And the prince continued : ' I am tired to death .
Order some soup to be made for me , but I do n't want that bear to meddle with it .
Every time I speak of my love the brute mutters and laughs , and seems to mock at me .
I hate the sight of the creature ! '
When the soup was ready , the bear brought it to the prince ; but before handing it to him , she dropped into the plate the ring the prince had given her the night before at the ball .
The prince began to eat his soup very slowly and languidly , for he was sad at heart , and all his thoughts were busy , wondering how and where he could see the lovely stranger again .
Suddenly he noticed the ring at the bottom of the plate .
In a moment he recognised it , and was dumb with surprise .
Then he saw the bear standing beside him , looking at him with gentle , beseeching eyes , and something in the eyes of the bear made him say : ` Take off that skin , some mystery is hidden beneath it . '
And the bear 's skin dropped off , and the beautiful girl stood before him , in the dress woven out of the starlight , and he saw that she was the stranger with whom he had fallen so deeply in love .
And now she appeared to him a thousand times more beautiful than ever , and he led her to his mother .
And the princess told them her story , and how she had been kept shut up by her father in his palace , and how she had wearied of her imprisonment .
And the prince 's mother loved her , and rejoiced that her son should have so good and beautiful a wife .
So they were married , and lived happily for many years , and reigned wisely over their kingdom .
THE SUNCHILD Once there was a woman who had no children , and this made her very unhappy .
So she spoke one day to the Sunball , saying : ` Dear Sunball , send me only a little girl now , and when she is twelve years old you may take her back again . '
So soon after this the Sunball sent her a little girl , whom the woman called Letiko , and watched over with great care till she was twelve years old .
Soon after that , while Letiko was away one day gathering herbs , the Sunball came to her , and said : ` Letiko , when you go home , tell your mother that she must bethink herself of what she promised me . '
Then Letiko went straight home , and said to her mother : ` While I was gathering herbs a fine tall gentleman came to me and charged me to tell you that you should remember what you promised him . '
When the woman heard that she was sore afraid , and immediately shut all the doors and windows of the house , stopped up all the chinks and holes , and kept Letiko hidden away , that the Sunball should not come and take her away .
But she forgot to close up the keyhole , and through it the Sunball sent a ray into the house , which took hold of the little girl and carried her away to him .
One day , the Sunball having sent her to the straw shed to fetch straw , the girl sat down on the piles of straw and bemoaned herself , saving : ` As sighs this straw under my feet so sighs my heart after my mother . '
And this caused her to be so long away that the Sunball asked her , when she came back : ` Eh , Letiko , where have you been so long ? '
She answered : ` My slippers are too big , and I could not go faster . '
Then the Sunball made the slippers shorter .
Another time he sent her to fetch water , and when she came to the spring , she sat down and lamented , saying : ` As flows the water even so flows my heart with longing for my mother . '
Thus she again remained so long away that the Sunball asked her : ` Eh , Letiko , why have you remained so long away ? '
And she answered : ` My petticoat is too long and hinders me in walking . '
Then the Sunball cut her petticoat to make it shorter .
Another time the Sunball sent her to bring him a pair of sandals , and as the girl carried these in her hand she began to lament , saying : ` As creaks the leather so creaks my heart after my little mother . '
When she came home the Sunball asked her again : ` Eh , Letiko , why do you come home so late ? '
` My red hood is too wide , and falls over my eyes , therefore I could not go fast . '
Then he made the hood narrower .
At last , however , the Sunball became aware how sad Letiko was .
He sent her a second time to bring straw , and , slipping in after her , he heard how she lamented for her mother .
Then he went home , called two foxes to him , and said : ` Will you take Letiko home ? '
` Yes , why not ? '
` But what will you eat and drink if you should become hungry and thirsty by the way ? '
` We will eat her flesh and drink her blood . '
When the Sunball heard that , he said : ` You are not suited for this affair . '
Then he sent them away , and called two hares to him , and said : ` Will you take Letiko home to her mother ? '
` Yes , why not ? '
` What will you eat and drink if you should become hungry and thirsty by the way ? '
` We will eat grass and drink from streamlets . '
` Then take her , and bring her home . '
Then the hares set out , taking Letiko with them , and because it was a long way to her home they became hungry by the way .
Then they said to the little girl : ` Climb this tree , dear Letiko , and remain there till we have finished eating . '
So Letiko climbed the tree , and the hares went grazing .
It was not very long , however , before a lamia came under the tree and called out : ` Letiko , Letiko , come down and see what beautiful shoes I have on . '
` Oh !
my shoes are much finer than yours . '
` Come down .
I am in a hurry , for my house is not yet swept . '
` Go home and sweep it then , and come back when you are ready . '
Then the lamia went away and swept her house , and when she was ready she came back and called out : ` Letiko , Letiko , come down and see what a beautiful apron I have . '
-LSB- Illustration : LETIKO , LETIKO , COME DOWN AND SEE WHAT A BEAUTIFUL APRON I HAVE -RSB- ` Oh !
my apron is much finer than yours . '
` If you will not come down I will cut down the tree and eat you . '
` Do so , and then eat me . '
Then the lamia hewed with all her strength at the tree , but could not cut it down .
And when she saw that , she called out : ` Letiko , Letiko , come down , for I must feed my children . '
` Go home then and feed them , and come back when you are ready . '
When the lamia was gone away , Letiko called out : ` Little hares !
little hares ! '
Then said one hare to the other : ` Listen , Letiko is calling ; ' and they both ran back to her as fast as they could go .
Then Letiko came down from the tree , and they went on their way .
The lamia ran as fast as she could after them , to catch them up , and when she came to a field where people were working she asked them : ` Have you seen any one pass this way ? '
They answered : ` We are planting beans . '
` Oh !
I did not ask about that ; but if any one had passed this way . '
But the people only answered the louder : ` Are you deaf ?
It is beans , beans , beans we are planting . '
When Letiko had nearly reached her home the dog knew her , and called out , ` Bow wow !
see here comes Letiko ! '
And the mother said , ` Hush !
thou beast of ill-omen !
wilt thou make me burst with misery ? '
Next the cat on the roof saw her , and called out ` Miaouw !
miaouw !
see here comes Letiko ! '
And the mother said , ` Keep silence !
thou beast of ill-omen !
wilt thou make me burst with misery ? '
Then the cock spied , and called out : ` Cock-a-doodle-do !
see here comes Letiko ! '
And the mother said again : ` Be quiet !
thou bird of ill-omen !
wilt thou make me burst with misery ? '
The nearer Letiko and the two hares came to the house the nearer also came the lamia , and when the hare was about to slip in by the house door she caught it by its little tail and tore it out .
-LSB- Illustration : Letiko GETS HOME SAFE AFTER ALL -RSB- When the hare came in the mother stood up and said to it : ` Welcome , dear little hare ; because you have brought me back Letiko I will silver your little tail . '
And she did so ; and lived ever after with her daughter in happiness and content .
THE DAUGHTER OF BUK ETTEMSUCH Once upon a time there lived a man who had seven daughters .
For a long time they dwelt quite happily at home together , then one morning the father called them all before him and said : ` Your mother and I are going on a journey , and as we do not know how long we may be away , you will find enough provisions in the house to last you three years .
But see you do not open the door to any one till we come home again . '
` Very well , dear father , ' replied the girls .
For two years they never left the house or unlocked the door ; but one day , when they had washed their clothes , and were spreading them out on the roof to dry , the girls looked down into the street where people were walking to and fro , and across to the market , with its stalls of fresh meat , vegetable , and other nice things .
` Come here , ' cried one .
` It makes me quite hungry !
Why should not we have our share ?
Let one of us go to the market , and buy meat and vegetables . '
` Oh , we must n't do that ! '
said the youngest .
` You know our father forbade us to open the door till he came home again . '
Then the eldest sister sprang at her and struck her , the second spit at her , the third abused her , the fourth pushed her , the fifth flung her to the ground , and the sixth tore her clothes .
Then they left her lying on the floor , and went out with a basket .
In about an hour they came back with the basket full of meat and vegetables , which they put in a pot , and set on the fire , quite forgetting that the house door stood wide open .
The youngest sister , however , took no part in all this , and when dinner was ready and the table laid , she stole softly out to the entrance hall , and hid herself behind a great cask which stood in one corner .
Now , while the other sisters were enjoying their feast , a witch passed by , and catching sight of the open door , she walked in .
She went up to the eldest girl , and said : ` Where shall I begin on you , you fat bolster ? '
` You must begin , ' answered she ` with the hand which struck my little sister . '
So the witch gobbled her up , and when the last scrap had disappeared , she came to the second and asked : ` Where shall I begin on you , my fat bolster ? '
And the second answered , ` You must begin on my mouth , which spat on my sister . '
And so on to the rest ; and very soon the whole six had disappeared .
And as the witch was eating the last mouthful of the last sister , the youngest , who had been crouching , frozen with horror , behind the barrel , ran out through the open door into the street .
Without looking behind her , she hastened on and on , as fast as her feet would carry her , till she saw an ogre 's castle standing in front of her .
In a corner near the door she spied a large pot , and she crept softly up to it and pulled the cover over it , and went to sleep .
By-and-by the ogre came home .
` Fee , Fo , Fum , ' cried he , ' I smell the smell of a man .
What ill fate has brought him here ? '
And he looked through all the rooms , and found nobody .
` Where are you ? '
he called .
` Do not be afraid , I will do you no harm . '
But the girl was still silent .
` Come out , I tell you , ' repeated the ogre .
` Your life is quite safe .
If you are an old man , you shall be my father .
If you are a boy , you shall be my son .
If your years are as many as mine , you shall be my brother .
If you are an old woman , you shall be my mother .
If you are a young one , you shall be my daughter .
If you are middle-aged , you shall be my wife .
So come out , and fear nothing . '
Then the maiden came out of her hiding-place , and stood before him .
-LSB- Illustration : The Maiden creeps out of the Pot . -RSB-
` Fear nothing , ' said the ogre again ; and when he went away to hunt he left her to look after the house .
In the evening he returned , bringing with him hares , partridges , and gazelles , for the girl 's supper ; for himself he only cared for the flesh of men , which she cooked for him .
He also gave into her charge the keys of six rooms , but the key of the seventh he kept himself .
And time passed on , and the girl and the ogre still lived together .
She called him ` Father , ' and he called her ` Daughter , ' and never once did he speak roughly to her .
One day the maiden said to him , ` Father , give me the key of the upper chamber . '
` No , my daughter , ' replied the ogre .
` There is nothing there that is any use to you . '
` But I want the key , ' she repeated again .
However the ogre took no notice , and pretended not to hear .
The girl began to cry , and said to herself : ` To-night , when he thinks I am asleep , I will watch and see where he hides it ' ; and after she and the ogre had supped , she bade him good-night , and left the room .
In a few minutes she stole quietly back , and watched from behind a curtain .
In a little while she saw the ogre take the key from his pocket , and hide it in a hole in the ground before he went to bed .
And when all was still she took out the key , and went back to the house .
The next morning the ogre awoke with the first ray of light , and the first thing he did was to look for the key .
It was gone , and he guessed at once what had become of it .
But instead of getting into a great rage , as most ogres would have done , he said to himself , ` If I wake the maiden up I shall only frighten her .
For to-day she shall keep the key , and when I return to-night it will be time enough to take it from her . '
So he went off to hunt .
The moment he was safe out of the way , the girl ran upstairs and opened the door of the room , which was quite bare .
The one window was closed , and she threw back the lattice and looked out .
Beneath lay a garden which belonged to the Prince , and in the garden was an ox , who was drawing up water from the well all by himself -- for there was nobody to be seen anywhere .
The ox raised his head at the noise the girl made in opening the lattice , and said to her , ` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch !
Your father is feeding you up till you are nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '
These words so frightened the maiden that she burst into tears and ran out of the room .
All day she wept , and when the ogre came home at night , no supper was ready for him .
` What are you crying for ? '
said he .
` Where is my supper , and is it you who have opened the upper chamber ? '
` Yes , I opened it , ' answered she .
` And what did the ox say to you ? '
` He said , `` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch .
Your father is feeding you up till you are nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '' '
` Well , to-morrow you can go to the window and say , `` My father is feeding me up till I am nice and fat , but he does not mean to eat me .
If I had one of your eyes I would use it for a mirror , and look at myself before and behind ; and your girths should be loosened , and you should be blind -- seven days and seven nights . '' '
` All right , ' replied the girl , and the next morning , when the ox spoke to her , she answered him as she had been told , and he fell down straight upon the ground , and lay there seven days and seven nights .
But the flowers in the garden withered , for there was no one to water them .
When the prince came into his garden he found nothing but yellow stalks ; in the midst of them the ox was lying .
With a blow from his sword he killed the animal , and , turning to his attendants , he said , ` Go and fetch another ox ! '
And they brought in a great beast , and he drew the water out of the well , and the flowers revived , and the grass grew green again .
Then the prince called his attendants and went away .
The next morning the girl heard the noise of the water-wheel , and she opened the lattice and looked out of the window .
` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch ! '
said the new ox .
` Your father is feeding you up till you are nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '
And the maiden answered : ` My father is feeding me up till I am nice and fat , but he does not mean to eat me .
If I had one of your eyes I would use it for a mirror , and look at myself before and behind ; and your girths should be loosened , and you should be blind -- seven days and seven nights . '
Directly she uttered these words the ox fell to the ground and lay there , seven days and seven nights .
Then he arose and began to draw the water from the well .
He had only turned the wheel once or twice , when the prince took it into his head to visit his garden and see how the new ox was getting on .
When he entered the ox was working busily ; but in spite of that the flowers and grass were dried up .
And the prince drew his sword , and rushed at the ox to slay him , as he had done the other .
But the ox fell on his knees and said : ` My lord , only spare my life , and let me tell you how it happened . '
` How what happened ? '
asked the prince .
` My lord , a girl looked out of that window and spoke a few words to me , and I fell to the ground .
For seven days and seven nights I lay there , unable to move .
But , O my lord , it is not given to us twice to behold beauty such as hers . '
-LSB- Illustration -RSB- ` It is a lie , ' said the prince .
` An ogre dwells there .
Is it likely that he keeps a maiden in his upper chamber ? '
` Why not ? '
replied the ox .
` But if you come here at dawn to-morrow , and hide behind that tree , you will see for yourself . '
` So I will , ' said the prince ; ` and if I find that you have not spoken truth , I will kill you . '
The prince left the garden , and the ox went on with his work .
Next morning the prince came early to the garden , and found the ox busy with the water-wheel .
` Has the girl appeared yet ? '
he asked .
` Not yet ; but she will not be long .
Hide yourself in the branches of that tree , and you will soon see her . '
The prince did as he was told , and scarcely was he seated when the maiden threw open the lattice .
` Good morning , O daughter of Buk Ettemsuch ! '
said the ox .
` Your father is feeding you up till you are nice and fat , and then he will put you on a spit and cook you . '
` My father is feeding me up till I am nice and fat , but he does not mean to eat me .
If I had one of your eyes I would use it for a mirror , and look at myself before and behind ; and your girths should be loosened , and you should be blind -- seven days and seven nights . '
And hardly had she spoken when the ox fell on the ground , and the maiden shut the lattice and went away .
But the prince knew that what the ox had said was true , and that she had not her equal in the whole world .
And he came down from the tree , his heart burning with love .
` Why has the ogre not eaten her ? '
thought he .
` This night I will invite him to supper in my palace and question him about the maiden , and find out if she is his wife . '
So the prince ordered a great ox to be slain and roasted whole , and two huge tanks to be made , one filled with water and the other with wine .
And towards evening he called his attendants and went to the ogre 's house to wait in the courtyard till he came back from hunting .
The ogre was surprised to see so many people assembled in front of his house ; but he bowed politely and said , ` Good morning , dear neighbours !
To what do I owe the pleasure of this visit ?
I have not offended you , I hope ? '
` Oh , certainly not ! '
answered the prince .
` Then , ' continued the ogre , ` what has brought you to my house to-day for the first time ? '
` We should like to have supper with you , ' said the prince .
` Well , supper is ready , and you are welcome , ' replied the ogre , leading the way into the house , for he had had a good day , and there was plenty of game in the bag over his shoulder .
A table was quickly prepared , and the prince had already taken his place , when he suddenly exclaimed , ` After all , Buk Ettemsuch , suppose you come to supper with me ? '
` Where ? '
asked the ogre .
` In my house .
I know it is all ready . '
` But it is so far off -- why not stay here ? '
` Oh , I will come another day ; but this evening I must be your host . '
So the ogre accompanied the prince and his attendants back to the palace .
After a while the prince turned to the ogre and said : ` It is as a wooer that I appear before you .
I seek a wife from an honourable family . '
` But I have no daughter , ' replied the ogre .
` Oh , yes you have , I saw her at the window . '
` Well , you can marry her if you wish , ' said he .
So the prince 's heart was glad as he and his attendants rode back with the ogre to his house .
And as they parted , the prince said to his guest , ` You will not forget the bargain we have made ? ' '
I am not a young man , and never break my promises , ' said the ogre , and went in and shut the door .
Upstairs he found the maiden , waiting till he returned to have her supper , for she did not like eating by herself . '
I have had my supper , ' said the ogre , ` for I have been spending the evening with the prince . '
` Where did you meet him ? '
asked the girl .
` Oh , we are neighbours , and grew up together , and to-night I promised that you should be his wife . ' '
I do n't want to be any man 's wife , ' answered she ; but this was only pretence , for her heart too was glad .
Next morning early came the prince , bringing with him bridal gifts , and splendid wedding garments , to carry the maiden back to his palace .
But before he let her go the ogre called her to him , and said , ` Be careful , girl , never to speak to the prince ; and when he speaks to you , you must be dumb , unless he swears `` by the head of Buk Ettemsuch . ''
Then you may speak . '
` Very well , ' answered the girl .
They set out ; and when they reached the palace , the prince led his bride to the room he had prepared for her , and said ` Speak to me , my wife , ' but she was silent ; and by-and-by he left her , thinking that perhaps she was shy .
The next day the same thing happened , and the next .
At last he said , ` Well , if you wo n't speak , I shall go and get another wife who will . '
And he did .
Now when the new wife was brought to the palace the daughter of Buk Ettemsuch rose , and spoke to the ladies who had come to attend on the second bride .
` Go and sit down .
I will make ready the feast . '
And the ladies sat down as they were told , and waited .
The maiden sat down too , and called out , ` Come here , firewood , ' and the firewood came .
` Come here , fire , ' and the fire came and kindled the wood .
` Come here , pot . '
` Come here , oil ; ' and the pot and the oil came .
` Get into the pot , oil ! '
said she , and the oil did it .
When the oil was boiling , the maiden dipped all her fingers in it , and they became ten fried fishes .
` Come here , oven , ' she cried next , and the oven came .
` Fire , heat the oven . '
And the fire heated it .
When it was hot enough , the maiden jumped in , just as she was , with her beautiful silver and gold dress , and all her jewels .
In a minute or two she had turned into a snow-white loaf , that made your mouth water .
Said the loaf to the ladies , ` You can eat now ; do not stand so far off ; ' but they only stared at each other , speechless with surprise .
` What are you staring at ? '
asked the new bride .
` At all these wonders , ' replied the ladies .
` Do you call these wonders ? '
said she scornfully ; ' I can do that too , ' and she jumped straight into the oven , and was burnt up in a moment .
Then they ran to the prince and said : ` Come quickly , your wife is dead ! '
` Bury her , then ! '
returned he .
` But why did she do it ?
I am sure I said nothing to make her throw herself into the oven . '
Accordingly the burnt woman was buried , but the prince would not go to the funeral as all his thoughts were still with the wife who would not speak to him .
The next night he said to her , ` Dear wife , are you afraid that something dreadful will happen if you speak to me ?
If you still persist in being dumb , I shall be forced to get another wife . '
The poor girl longed to speak , but dread of the ogre kept her silent , and the prince did as he had said , and brought a fresh bride into the palace .
And when she and her ladies were seated in state , the maiden planted a sharp stake in the ground , and sat herself down comfortably on it , and began to spin .
` What are you staring at so ? '
said the new bride to her ladies .
` Do you think that is anything wonderful ?
Why , I can do as much myself ! ' '
I am sure you ca n't , ' said they , much too surprised to be polite .
Then the maid sprang off the stake and left the room , and instantly the new wife took her place .
But the sharp stake ran through , and she was dead in a moment .
So they sent to the prince and said , ` Come quickly , and bury your wife . '
` Bury her yourselves , ' he answered .
` What did she do it for ?
It was not by my orders that she impaled herself on the stake . '
So they buried her ; and in the evening the prince came to the daughter of Buk Ettemsuch , and said to her , ` Speak to me , or I shall have to take another wife . '
But she was afraid to speak to him .
The following day the prince hid himself in the room and watched .
And soon the maiden woke , and said to the pitcher and to the water-jug , ` Quick !
go down to the spring and bring me some water ; I am thirsty . '
And they went .
But as they were filling themselves at the spring , the water-jug knocked against the pitcher and broke off its spout .
And the pitcher burst into tears , and ran to the maiden , and said : ` Mistress , beat the water-jug , for he has broken my spout ! '
` By the head of Buk Ettemsuch , I implore you not to beat me ! '
` Ah , ' she replied , ` if only my husband had sworn by that oath , I could have spoken to him from the beginning , and he need never have taken another wife .
But now he will never say it , and he will have to go on marrying fresh ones . '
And the prince , from his hiding-place , heard her words , and he jumped up and ran to her and said , ` By the head of Buk Ettemsuch , speak to me . '
So she spoke to him , and they lived happily to the end of their days , because the girl kept the promise she had made to the ogre .
-LSB- Märchen und Gedichte aus der Stadt Tripolis .
Von Hans Stumme . -RSB-
LAUGHING EYE AND WEEPING EYE , OR THE LIMPING FOX -LRB- SERVIAN STORY -RRB- Once upon a time there lived a man whose right eye always smiled , and whose left eye always cried ; and this man had three sons , two of them very clever , and the third very stupid .
Now these three sons were very curious about the peculiarity of their father 's eyes , and as they could not puzzle out the reason for themselves , they determined to ask their father why he did not have eyes like other people .
So the eldest of the three went one day into his father 's room and put the question straight out ; but , instead of answering , the man flew into a fearful rage , and sprang at him with a knife .
The young fellow ran away in a terrible fright , and took refuge with his brothers , who were awaiting anxiously the result of the interview .
` You had better go yourselves , ' was all the reply they got , ` and see if you will fare any better . '
Upon hearing this , the second son entered his father 's room , only to be treated in the same manner as his brother ; and back he came telling the youngest , the fool of the family , that it was his turn to try his luck .
Then the youngest son marched boldly up to his father and said to him , ` My brothers would not let me know what answer you had given to their question .
But now , do tell me why your right eye always laughs and your left eye always weeps . '
As before , the father grew purple with fury , and rushed forwards with his knife .
But the simpleton did not stir a step ; he knew that he had really nothing to fear from his father .
` Ah , now I see who is my true son , ' exclaimed the old man ; ` the others are mere cowards .
And as you have shown me that you are brave , I will satisfy your curiosity .
My right eye laughs because I am glad to have a son like you ; my left eye weeps because a precious treasure has been stolen from me .
I had in my garden a vine that yielded a tun of wine every hour -- someone has managed to steal it , so I weep its loss . '
The simpleton returned to his brothers and told them of their father 's loss , and they all made up their minds to set out at once in search of the vine .
They travelled together till they came to some cross roads , and there they parted , the two elder ones taking one road , and the simpleton the other .
` Thank goodness we have got rid of that idiot , ' exclaimed the two elder .
` Now let us have some breakfast . '
And they sat down by the roadside and began to eat .
They had only half finished , when a lame fox came out of a wood and begged them to give him something to eat .
But they jumped up and chased him off with their sticks , and the poor fox limped away on his three pads .
As he ran he reached the spot where the youngest son was getting out the food he had brought with him , and the fox asked him for a crust of bread .
The simpleton had not very much for himself , but he gladly gave half of his meal to the hungry fox .
` Where are you going , brother ? '
said the fox , when he had finished his share of the bread ; and the young man told him the story of his father and the wonderful vine .
` Dear me , how lucky ! '
said the fox . '
I know what has become of it .
Follow me ! '
So they went on till they came to the gate of a large garden .
` You will find here the vine that you are seeking , but it will not be at all easy to get it .
You must listen carefully to what I am going to say .
Before you reach the vine you will have to pass twelve outposts , each consisting of two guards .
If you see these guards looking straight at you , go on without fear , for they are asleep .
But if their eyes are shut then beware , for they are wide awake .
If you once get to the vine , you will find two shovels , one of wood and the other of iron .
Be sure not to take the iron one ; it will make a noise and rouse the guards , and then you are lost . '
The young man got safely through the garden without any adventures till he came to the vine which yielded a tun of wine an hour .
But he thought he should find it impossible to dig the hard earth with only a wooden shovel , so picked up the iron one instead .
The noise it made soon awakened the guards .
They seized the poor simpleton and carried him to their master .
` Why do you try to steal my vine ? '
demanded he ; ` and how did you manage to get past the guards ? '
` The vine is not yours ; it belongs to my father , and if you will not give it to me now , I will return and get it somehow . '
` You shall have the vine if you will bring me in exchange an apple off the golden apple-tree that flowers every twenty-four hours , and bears fruit of gold . '
So saying , he gave orders that the simpleton should be released , and this done , the youth hurried off to consult the fox .
` Now you see , ' observed the fox , ` this comes of not following my advice .
However , I will help you to get the golden apple .
It grows in a garden that you will easily recognise from my description .
Near the apple-tree are two poles , one of gold , the other of wood .
Take the wooden pole , and you will be able to reach the apple . '
Master Simpleton listened carefully to all that was told him , and after crossing the garden , and escaping as before from the men who were watching it , soon arrived at the apple-tree .
But he was so dazzled by the sight of the beautiful golden fruit , that he quite forgot all that the fox had said .
He seized the golden pole , and struck the branch a sounding blow .
The guards at once awoke , and conducted him to their master .
Then the simpleton had to tell his story . '
I will give you the golden apple , ' said the owner of the garden , ` if you will bring me in exchange a horse which can go round the world in four-and-twenty hours . '
And the young man departed , and went to find the fox .
This time the fox was really angry , and no wonder .
` If you had listened to me , you would have been home with your father by this time .
However I am willing to help you once more .
Go into the forest , and you will find the horse with two halters round his neck .
One is of gold , the other of hemp .
Lead him by the hempen halter , or else the horse will begin to neigh , and will waken the guards .
Then all is over with you . '
So Master Simpleton searched till he found the horse , and was struck dumb at its beauty .
` What ! '
he said to himself , ` put the hempen halter on an animal like that ?
Not I , indeed ! '
Then the horse neighed loudly ; the guards seized our young friend and conducted him before their master . '
I will give you the golden horse , ' said he , ` if you will bring me in exchange a golden maiden who has never yet seen either sun or moon . '
` But if I am to bring you the golden maiden you must lend me first the golden steed with which to seek for her . '
` Ah , ' replied the owner of the golden horse , ` but who will undertake that you will ever come back ? ' '
I swear on the head of my father , ' answered the young man , ` that I will bring back either the maiden or the horse . '
And he went away to consult the fox .
Now , the fox who was always patient and charitable to other people 's faults , led him to the entrance of a deep grotto , where stood a maiden all of gold , and beautiful as the day .
He placed her on his horse and prepared to mount .
-LSB- Illustration : LIMPING FOX ADVISES THE SIMPLETON TO KEEP THE GOLDEN GIRL HIMSELF -RSB- ` Are you not sorry , ' said the fox , ` to give such a lovely maiden in exchange for a horse ?
Yet you are bound to do it , for you have sworn by the head of your father .
But perhaps I could manage to take her place . '
So saying , the fox transformed himself into another golden maiden , so like the first that hardly anyone could tell the difference between them .
The simpleton took her straight to the owner of the horse , who was enchanted with her .
And the young man got back his father 's vine and married the real golden maiden into the bargain .
-LSB- Contes Populaires Slaves .
Traduits par Louis Léger .
Paris : Ernest Leroux , éditeur . -RSB-
THE UNLOOKED-FOR PRINCE -LRB- POLISH STORY -RRB- A long time ago there lived a king and queen who had no children , although they both wished very much for a little son .
They tried not to let each other see how unhappy they were , and pretended to take pleasure in hunting and hawking and all sorts of other sports ; but at length the king could bear it no longer , and declared that he must go and visit the furthest corners of his kingdom , and that it would be many months before he should return to his capital .
By that time he hoped he would have so many things to think about that he would have forgotten to trouble about the little son who never came .
The country the king reigned over was very large , and full of high , stony mountains and sandy deserts , so that it was not at all easy to go from one place to another .
One day the king had wandered out alone , meaning to go only a little distance , but everything looked so alike he could not make out the path by which he had come .
He walked on and on for hours , the sun beating hotly on his head , and his legs trembling under him , and he might have died of thirst if he had not suddenly stumbled on a little well , which looked as if it had been newly dug .
On the surface floated a silver cup with a golden handle , but as it bobbed about whenever the king tried to seize it , he was too thirsty to wait any longer and knelt down and drank his fill .
When he had finished he began to rise from his knees , but somehow his beard seemed to have stuck fast in the water , and with all his efforts he could not pull it out .
After two or three jerks to his head , which only hurt him without doing any good , he called out angrily , ` Let go at once !
Who is holding me ? '
` It is I , the King Kostieï , ' said a voice from the well , and looking up through the water was a little man with green eyes and a big head .
` You have drunk from my spring , and I shall not let you go until you promise to give me the most precious thing your palace contains , which was not there when you left it . '
Now the only thing that the king much cared for in his palace was the queen herself , and as she was weeping bitterly on a pile of cushions in the great hall when he had ridden away , he knew that Kostieï 's words could not apply to her .
So he cheerfully gave the promise asked for by the ugly little man , and in the twinkling of an eye , man , spring , and cup had disappeared , and the king was left kneeling on the dry sand , wondering if it was all a dream .
But as he felt much stronger and better he made up his mind that this strange adventure must really have happened , and he sprang on his horse and rode off with a light heart to look for his companions .
In a few weeks they began to set out on their return home , which they reached one hot day , eight months after they had all left .
The king was greatly beloved by his people , and crowds lined the roads , shouting and waving their hats as the procession passed along .
On the steps of the palace stood the queen , with a splendid golden cushion in her arms , and on the cushion the most beautiful boy that ever was seen , wrapped about in a cloud of lace .
In a moment Kostieï 's words rushed into the king 's mind , and he began to weep bitterly , to the surprise of everybody , who had expected him nearly to die of joy at the sight of his son .
But try as he would and work as hard as he might he could never forget his promise , and every time he let the baby out of his sight he thought that he had seen it for the last time .
However , years passed on and the prince grew first into a big boy , and then into a fine young man .
Kostieï made no sign , and gradually even the anxious king thought less and less about him , and in the end forgot him altogether .
There was no family in the whole kingdom happier than the king and queen and prince , until one day when the youth met a little old man as he was hunting in a lonely part of the woods .
` How are you , my unlooked-for Prince ? '
he said .
` You kept them waiting a good long time ! '
` And who are you ? '
asked the prince .
` You will know soon enough .
When you go home give my compliments to your father and tell him that I wish he would square accounts with me .
If he neglects to pay his debts he will bitterly repent it . '
So saying the old man disappeared , and the prince returned to the palace and told his father what had happened .
The king turned pale and explained to his son the terrible story .
` Do not grieve over it , father , ' answered the prince .
` It is nothing so dreadful after all !
I will find some way to force Kostieï to give up his rights over me .
But if I do not come back in a year 's time , you must give up all hopes of ever seeing me . '
Then the prince began to prepare for his journey .
His father gave him a complete suit of steel armour , a sword , and a horse , while his mother hung round his neck a cross of gold .
So , kissing him tenderly , with many tears they let him go .
He rode steadily on for three days , and at sunset on the fourth day he found himself on the seashore .
On the sand before him lay twelve white dresses , dazzling as the snow , yet as far as his eyes could reach there was no one in sight to whom they could belong .
Curious to see what would happen , he took up one of the garments , and leaving his horse loose , to wander about the adjoining fields , he hid himself among some willows and waited .
In a few minutes a flock of geese which had been paddling about in the sea approached the shore , and put on the dresses , struck the sand with their feet and were transformed in the twinkling of an eye into eleven beautiful young girls , who flew away as fast as they could .
The twelfth and youngest remained in the water , stretching out her long white neck and looking about her anxiously .
Suddenly , among the willows , she perceived the king 's son , and called out to him with a human voice : ` Oh Prince , give me back my dress , and I shall be for ever grateful to you . '
The Prince hastened to lay the dress on the sand , and walked away .
When the maiden had thrown off the goose-skin and quickly put on her proper clothes , she came towards him and he saw that none had ever seen or told of such beauty as hers .
She blushed and held out her hand , saying to him in a soft voice : ' I thank you , noble Prince , for having granted my request .
I am the youngest daughter of Kostieï the immortal , who has twelve daughters and rules over the kingdoms under the earth .
Long time my father has waited for you , and great is his anger .
But trouble not yourself and fear nothing , only do as I bid you .
When you see the King Kostieï , fall straightway upon your knees and heed neither his threats nor his cry , but draw near to him boldly .
That which will happen after , you will know in time .
Now let us go . '
At these words she struck the ground with her foot and a gulf opened , down which they went right into the heart of the earth .
In a short time they reached Kostieï 's palace , which gives light , with a light brighter than the sun , to the dark kingdoms below .
And the prince , as he had been bidden , entered boldly into the hall .
Kostieï , with a shining crown upon his head , sat in the centre upon a golden throne .
His green eyes glittered like glass , his hands were as the claws of a crab .
When he caught sight of the prince he uttered piercing yells , which shook the walls of the palace .
The prince took no notice , but continued his advance on his knees towards the throne .
When he had almost reached it , the king broke out into a laugh and said : ` It has been very lucky for you that you have been able to make me laugh .
Stay with us in our underground empire , only first you will have to do three things .
To-night it is late .
Go to sleep ; to-morrow I will tell you . '
Early the following morning the prince received a message that Kostieï was ready to see him .
He got up and dressed , and hastened to the presence chamber , where the little king was seated on his throne .
When the prince appeared , bowing low before him , Kostieï began : ` Now , Prince , this is what you have to do .
By to-night you must build me a marble palace , with windows of crystal and a roof of gold .
It is to stand in the middle of a great park , full of streams and lakes .
If you are able to build it you shall be my friend .
If not , off with your head . '
The prince listened in silence to this startling speech , and then returning to his room set himself to think about the certain death that awaited him .
He was quite absorbed in these thoughts , when suddenly a bee flew against the window and tapped , saying , ` Let me come in . '
He rose and opened the window , and there stood before him the youngest princess .
` What are you dreaming about , Prince ? ' '
I was dreaming of your father , who has planned my death . '
` Fear nothing .
You may sleep in peace , and to-morrow morning when you awake you will find the palace all ready . '
What she said , she did .
The next morning when the prince left his room he saw before him a palace more beautiful than his fancy had ever pictured .
Kostieï for his part could hardly believe his eyes , and pondered deeply how it had got there .
` Well , this time you have certainly won ; but you are not going to be let off so easily .
To-morrow all my twelve daughters shall stand in a row before you , and if you can not tell me which of them is the youngest , off goes your head . '
` What !
Not recognise the youngest princess ! '
said the Prince to himself , as he entered his room , ' a likely story ! '
` It is such a difficult matter that you will never be able to do it without my help , ' replied the bee , who was buzzing about the ceiling .
` We are all so exactly alike , that even our father scarcely knows the difference between us . '
` Then what must I do ? '
` This .
The youngest is she who will have a ladybird on her eyelid .
Be very careful .
Now good-bye . '
Next morning King Kostieï again sent for the prince .
The young princesses were all drawn up in a row , dressed precisely in the same manner , and with their eyes all cast down .
As the prince looked at them , he was amazed at their likeness .
Twice he walked along the line , without being able to detect the sign agreed upon .
The third time his heart beat fast at the sight of a tiny speck upon the eyelid of one of the girls .
` This one is the youngest , ' he said .
` How in the world did you guess ? '
cried Kostieï in a fury .
` There is some jugglery about it !
But you are not going to escape me so easily .
In three hours you shall come here and give me another proof of your cleverness .
I shall set alight a handful of straw , and before it is burnt up you will have turned it into a pair of boots .
If not , off goes your head . '
So the prince returned sadly into his room , but the bee was there before him .
` Why do you look so melancholy , my handsome Prince ? '
` How can I help looking melancholy when your father has ordered me to make him a pair of boots ?
Does he take me for a shoemaker ? '
` What do you think of doing ? '
` Not of making boots , at any rate !
I am not afraid of death .
One can only die once after all . '
` No , Prince , you shall not die .
I will try to save you .
And we will fly together or die together . '
As she spoke she spat upon the ground , and then drawing the prince after her out of the room , she locked the door behind her and threw away the key .
Holding each other tight by the hand , they made their way up into the sunlight , and found themselves by the side of the same sea , while the prince 's horse was still quietly feeding in the neighbouring meadow .
The moment he saw his master , the horse whinnied and galloped towards him .
Without losing an instant the prince sprang into the saddle , swung the princess behind him , and away they went like an arrow from a bow .
When the hour arrived which Kostieï had fixed for the prince 's last trial , and there were no signs of him , the king sent to his room to ask why he delayed so long .
The servants , finding the door locked , knocked loudly and received for answer , ` In one moment . '
It was the spittle , which was imitating the voice of the prince .
The answer was taken back to Kostieï .
He waited ; still no prince .
He sent the servants back again , and the same voice replied , ` Immediately . '
` He is making fun of me ! '
shrieked Kostieï in a rage .
` Break in the door , and bring him to me ! '
The servants hurried to do his bidding .
The door was broken open .
Nobody inside ; but just the spittle in fits of laughter !
Kostieï was beside himself with rage , and commanded his guards to ride after the fugitives .
If the guards returned without the fugitives , their heads should pay for it .
By this time the prince and princess had got a good start , and were feeling quite happy , when suddenly they heard the sound of a gallop far behind them .
The prince sprang from the saddle , and laid his ear to the ground .
` They are pursuing us , ' he said .
` Then there is no time to be lost , ' answered the princess ; and as she spoke she changed herself into a river , the prince into a bridge , the horse into a crow , and divided the wide road beyond the bridge into three little ones .
When the soldiers came up to the bridge , they paused uncertainly .
How were they to know which of the three roads the fugitives had taken ?
They gave it up in despair and returned in trembling to Kostieï .
` Idiots ! '
he exclaimed , in a passion .
` They were the bridge and the river , of course !
Do you mean to say you never thought of that ?
Go back at once ! '
and off they galloped like lightning .
But time had been lost , and the prince and princess were far on their way . '
I hear a horse , ' cried the princess .
The prince jumped down and laid his ear to the ground .
` Yes , ' he said , ` they are not far off now . '
In an instant prince , princess , and horse had all disappeared , and instead was a dense forest , crossed and recrossed by countless paths .
Kostieï 's soldiers dashed hastily into the forest , believing they saw before them the flying horse with its double burden .
They seemed close upon them , when suddenly horse , wood , everything disappeared , and they found themselves at the place where they started .
There was nothing for it but to return to Kostieï , and tell him of this fresh disaster . '
A horse !
a horse ! '
cried the king . '
I will go after them myself .
This time they shall not escape . '
And he galloped off , foaming with anger . '
I think I hear someone pursuing us , ' said the princess .
` Yes , so do I. ' ` And this time it is Kostieï himself .
But his power only reaches as far as the first church , and he can go no farther .
Give me your golden cross . '
So the prince unfastened the cross which was his mother 's gift , and the princess hastily changed herself into a church , the prince into a priest , and the horse into a belfry .
It was hardly done when Kostieï came up .
` Greeting , monk .
Have you seen some travellers on horseback pass this way ? '
` Yes , the prince and Kostieï 's daughter have just gone by .
They have entered the church , and told me to give you their greetings if I met you . '
Then Kostieï knew that he had been hopelessly beaten , and the prince and princess continued their journey without any more adventures .
-LSB- Contes Populaires Slaves .
Traduits par Louis Léger .
Paris : Leroux , éditeur . -RSB-
THE SIMPLETON There lived , once upon a time , a man who was as rich as he could be ; but as no happiness in this world is ever quite complete , he had an only son who was such a simpleton that he could barely add two and two together .
At last his father determined to put up with his stupidity no longer , and giving him a purse full of gold , he sent him off to seek his fortune in foreign lands , mindful of the adage : How much a fool that 's sent to roam Excels a fool that stays at home .
Moscione , for this was the youth 's name , mounted a horse , and set out for Venice , hoping to find a ship there that would take him to Cairo .
After he had ridden for some time he saw a man standing at the foot of a poplar tree , and said to him : ` What 's your name , my friend ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? '
The man replied , ` My name is Quick-as-Thought , I come from Fleet-town , and I can run like lightning . ' '
I should like to see you , ' returned Moscione .
` Just wait a minute , then , ' said Quick-as-Thought , ` and I will soon show you that I am speaking the truth . '
The words were hardly out of his mouth when a young doe ran right across the field they were standing in .
Quick-as-Thought let her run on a short distance , in order to give her a start , and then pursued her so quickly and so lightly that you could not have tracked his footsteps if the field had been strewn with flour .
In a very few springs he had overtaken the doe , and had so impressed Moscione with his fleetness of foot that he begged Quick-as-Thought to go with him , promising at the same time to reward him handsomely .
Quick-as-Thought agreed to his proposal , and they continued on their journey together .
They had hardly gone a mile when they met a young man , and Moscione stopped and asked him : ` What 's your name , my friend ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? '
The man thus addressed answered promptly , ' I am called Hare 's - ear , I come from Curiosity Valley , and if I lay my ear on the ground , without moving from the spot , I can hear everything that goes on in the world , the plots and intrigues of court and cottage , and all the plans of mice and men . '
` If that 's the case , ' replied Moscione , ` Just tell me what 's going on in my own home at present . '
The youth laid his ear to the ground and at once reported : ` An old man is saying to his wife , `` Heaven be praised that we have got rid of Moscione , for perhaps , when he has been out in the world a little , he may gain some common sense , and return home less of a fool than when he set out . '' '
` Enough , enough , ' cried Moscione .
` You speak the truth , and I believe you .
Come with us , and your fortune 's made . '
The young man consented ; and after they had gone about ten miles , they met a third man , to whom Moscione said : ` What 's your name , my brave fellow ; where were you born , and what can you do ? '
The man replied , ' I am called Hit-the-Point , I come from the city of Perfect-aim , and I draw my bow so exactly that I can shoot a pea off a stone . ' '
I should like to see you do it , if you 've no objection , ' said Moscione .
The man at once placed a pea on a stone , and , drawing his bow , he shot it in the middle with the greatest possible ease .
When Moscione saw that he had spoken the truth , he immediately asked Hit-the-Point to join his party .
After they had all travelled together for some days , they came upon a number of people who were digging a trench in the blazing sun .
Moscione felt so sorry for them , that he said : ` My dear friends , how can you endure working so hard in heat that would cook an egg in a minute ? '
But one of the workmen answered : ` We are as fresh as daisies , for we have a young man among us who blows on our backs like the west wind . '
` Let me see him , ' said Moscione .
The youth was called , and Moscione asked him : ` What 's your name ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? '
He answered : ' I am called Blow-Blast , I come from Wind-town , and with my mouth I can make any winds you please .
If you wish a west wind I can raise it for you in a second , but if you prefer a north wind I can blow these houses down before your eyes . '
` Seeing is believing , ' returned the cautious Moscione .
Blow-Blast at once began to convince him of the truth of his assertion .
First he blew so softly that it seemed like the gentle breeze at evening , and then he turned round and raised such a mighty storm , that he blew down a whole row of oak trees .
When Moscione saw this he was delighted , and begged Blow-Blast to join his company .
And as they went on their way they met another man , whom Moscione addressed as usual : ` What 's your name ; where do you come from , and what can you do ? ' '
I am called Strong-Back ; I come from Power-borough , and I possess such strength that I can take a mountain on my back , and it seems a feather to me . '
` If that 's the case , ' said Moscione , ` you are a clever fellow ; but I should like some proof of your strength . '
Then Strong-Back loaded himself with great boulders of rock and trunks of trees , so that a hundred waggons could not have taken away all that he carried on his back .
When Moscione saw this he prevailed on Strong-Back to join his troop , and they all continued their journey till they came to a country called Flower Vale .
Here there reigned a king whose only daughter ran as quickly as the wind , and so lightly that she could run over a field of young oats without bending a single blade .
The king had given out a proclamation that anyone who could beat the princess in a race should have her for a wife , but that all who failed in the competition should lose their head .
As soon as Moscione heard of the Royal Proclamation , he hastened to the king and challenged the princess to race with him .
But on the morning appointed for the trial he sent word to the king that he was not feeling well , and that as he could not run himself he would supply someone to take his place .
` It 's just the same to me , ' said Canetella , the princess ; ` let anyone come forward that likes , I am quite prepared to meet him . '
At the time appointed for the race the whole place was crowded with people anxious to see the contest , and , punctual to the moment , Quick-as-Thought , and Canetella dressed in a short skirt and very lightly shod , appeared at the starting-point .
Then a silver trumpet sounded , and the two rivals started on their race , looking for all the world like a greyhound chasing a hare .
But Quick-as-Thought , true to his name , outran the princess , and when the goal was reached the people all clapped their hands and shouted , ` Long live the stranger ! '
-LSB- Illustration : The Princess beaten by Quick-as-Thought -RSB- Canetella was much depressed by her defeat ; but , as the race had to be run a second time , she determined she would not be beaten again .
Accordingly she went home and sent Quick-as-Thought a magic ring , which prevented the person who wore it , not only from running , but even from walking , and begged that he would wear it for her sake .
Early next morning the crowd assembled on the race-course , and Canetella and Quick-as-Thought began their trial afresh .
The princess ran as quickly as ever , but poor Quick-as-Thought was like an overloaded donkey , and could not go a step .
Then Hit-the-Point , who had heard all about the princess 's deception from Hare 's - ear , when he saw the danger his friend was in , seized his bow and arrow and shot the stone out of the ring Quick-as-Thought was wearing .
In a moment the youth 's legs became free again , and in five bounds he had overtaken Canetella and won the race .
The king was much disgusted when he saw that he must acknowledge Moscione as his future son-in-law , and summoned the wise men of his court to ask if there was no way out of the difficulty .
The council at once decided that Canetella was far too dainty a morsel for the mouth of such a travelling tinker , and advised the king to offer Moscione a present of gold , which no doubt a beggar like him would prefer to all the wives in the world .
The king was delighted at this suggestion , and calling Moscione before him , he asked him what sum of money he would take instead of his promised bride .
Moscione first consulted with his friends , and then answered : ' I demand as much gold and precious stones as my followers can carry away . '
The king thought he was being let off very easily , and produced coffers of gold , sacks of silver , and chests of precious stones ; but the more Strong-Back was loaded with the treasure the straighter he stood .
At last the treasury was quite exhausted , and the king had to send his courtiers to his subjects to collect all the gold and silver they possessed .
But nothing was of any avail , and Strong-Back only asked for more .
When the king 's counsellors saw the unexpected result of their advice , they said it would be more than foolish to let some strolling thieves take so much treasure out of the country , and urged the king to send a troop of soldiers after them , to recover the gold and precious stones .
So the king sent a body of armed men on foot and horse , to take back the treasure Strong-Back was carrying away with him .
But Hare 's - ear , who had heard what the counsellors had advised the king , told his companions just as the dust of their pursuers was visible on the horizon .
No sooner had Blow-Blast taken in their danger than he raised such a mighty wind that all the king 's army was blown down like so many nine-pins , and as they were quite unable to get up again , Moscione and his companions proceeded on their way without further let or hindrance .
As soon as they reached his home , Moscione divided his spoil with his companions , at which they were much delighted .
He , himself , stayed with his father , who was obliged at last to acknowledge that his son was not quite such a fool as he looked .
-LSB- From the Italian , Kletke . -RSB-
THE STREET MUSICIANS A man once possessed a donkey which had served him faithfully for many years , but at last the poor beast grew old and feeble , and every day his work became more of a burden .
As he was no longer of any use , his master made up his mind to shoot him ; but when the donkey learnt the fate that was in store for him , he determined not to die , but to run away to the nearest town and there to become a street musician .
When he had trotted along for some distance he came upon a greyhound lying on the road , and panting for dear life .
` Well , brother , ' said the donkey , ` what 's the matter with you ?
You look rather tired . '
` So I am , ' replied the dog , ` but because I am getting old and am growing weaker every day , and can not go out hunting any longer , my master wanted to poison me ; and , as life is still sweet , I have taken leave of him .
But how I am to earn my own livelihood I have n't a notion . '
` Well , ' said the donkey , ' I am on my way to the nearest big town , where I mean to become a street musician .
Why do n't you take up music as a profession and come along with me ?
I 'll play the flute and you can play the kettle-drum . '
The greyhound was quite pleased at the idea , and the two set off together .
When they had gone a short distance they met a cat with a face as long as three rainy days .
` Now , what has happened to upset your happiness , friend puss ? '
inquired the donkey .
` It 's impossible to look cheerful when one feels depressed , ' answered the cat . '
I am well up in years now , and have lost most of my teeth ; consequently I prefer sitting in front of the fire to catching mice , and so my old mistress wanted to drown me .
I have no wish to die yet , so I ran away from her ; but good advice is expensive , and I do n't know where I am to go to , or what I am to do . '
` Come to the nearest big town with us , ' said the donkey , ` and try your fortune as a street musician .
I know what sweet music you make at night , so you are sure to be a success . '
The cat was delighted with the donkey 's proposal , and they all continued their journey together .
In a short time they came to the courtyard of an inn , where they found a cock crowing lustily .
` What in the world is the matter with you ? '
asked the donkey .
` The noise you are making is enough to break the drums of our ears . ' '
I am only prophesying good weather , ' said the cock ; ` for to-morrow is a feast day , and just because it is a holiday and a number of people are expected at the inn , the landlady has given orders for my neck to be wrung to-night , so that I may be made into soup for to-morrow 's dinner . '
` I 'll tell you what , redcap , ' said the donkey ; ` you had much better come with us to the nearest town .
You have got a good voice , and could join a street band we are getting up . '
The cock was much pleased with the idea , and the party proceeded on their way .
But the nearest big town was a long way off , and it took them more than a day to reach it .
In the evening they came to a wood , and they made up their minds to go no further , but to spend the night there .
The donkey and the greyhound lay down under a big tree , and the cat and the cock got up into the branches , the cock flying right up to the topmost twig , where he thought he would be safe from all danger .
Before he went to sleep he looked round the four points of the compass , and saw a little spark burning in the distance .
He called out to his companions that he was sure there must be a house not far off , for he could see a light shining .
When he heard this , the donkey said at once : ` Then we must get up , and go and look for the house , for this is very poor shelter . '
And the greyhound added : ` Yes ; I feel I 'd be all the better for a few bones and a scrap or two of meat . '
So they set out for the spot where the light was to be seen shining faintly in the distance , but the nearer they approached it the brighter it grew , till at last they came to a brilliantly lighted house .
The donkey being the biggest of the party , went to the window and looked in .
` Well , greyhead , what do you see ? '
asked the cock . '
I see a well-covered table , ' replied the donkey , ` with excellent food and drink , and several robbers are sitting round it , enjoying themselves highly . ' '
I wish we were doing the same , ' said the cock .
` So do I , ' answered the donkey .
` Ca n't we think of some plan for turning out the robbers , and taking possession of the house ourselves ? '
So they consulted together what they were to do , and at last they arranged that the donkey should stand at the window with his fore-feet on the sill , that the greyhound should get on his back , the cat on the dog 's shoulder , and the cock on the cat 's head .
When they had grouped themselves in this way , at a given signal , they all began their different forms of music .
The donkey brayed , the greyhound barked , the cat miawed , and the cock crew .
Then they all scrambled through the window into the room , breaking the glass into a thousand pieces as they did so .
The robbers were all startled by the dreadful noise , and thinking that some evil spirits at the least were entering the house , they rushed out into the wood , their hair standing on end with terror .
The four companions , delighted with the success of their trick , sat down at the table , and ate and drank all the food and wine that the robbers had left behind them .
When they had finished their meal they put out the lights , and each animal chose a suitable sleeping-place .
The donkey lay down in the courtyard outside the house , the dog behind the door , the cat in front of the fire , and the cock flew up on to a high shelf , and , as they were all tired after their long day , they soon went to sleep .
Shortly after midnight , when the robbers saw that no light was burning in the house and that all seemed quiet , the captain of the band said : ` We were fools to let ourselves be so easily frightened away ; ' and , turning to one of his men , he ordered him to go and see if all was safe .
The man found everything in silence and darkness , and going into the kitchen he thought he had better strike a light .
He took a match , and mistaking the fiery eyes of the cat for two glowing coals , he tried to light his match with them .
But the cat did n't see the joke , and sprang at his face , spitting and scratching him in the most vigorous manner .
The man was terrified out of his life , and tried to run out by the back door ; but he stumbled over the greyhound , which bit him in the leg .
Yelling with pain he ran across the courtyard only to receive a kick from the donkey 's hind leg as he passed him .
In the meantime the cock had been roused from his slumbers , and feeling very cheerful he called out , from the shelf where he was perched , ` Kikeriki ! '
Then the robber hastened back to his captain and said : ` Sir , there is a dreadful witch in the house , who spat at me and scratched my face with her long fingers ; and before the door there stands a man with a long knife , who cut my leg severely .
In the courtyard outside lies a black monster , who fell upon me with a huge wooden club ; and that is not all , for , sitting on the roof , is a judge , who called out : `` Bring the rascal to me . ''
So I fled for dear life . '
After this the robbers dared not venture into the house again , and they abandoned it for ever .
But the four street musicians were so delighted with their lodgings that they determined to take up their abode in the robbers ' house , and , for all I know to the contrary , they may be living there to this day .
-LSB- From the German , Kletke . -RSB-
THE TWIN BROTHERS Once there was a fisherman who had plenty of money but no children .
One day an old woman came to his wife and said : ` What use is all your prosperity to you when you have no children ? '
` It is God 's will , ' answered the fisherman 's wife .
` Nay , my child , it is not God 's will , but the fault of your husband ; for if he would but catch the little gold-fish you would surely have children .
To-night , when he comes home , tell him he must go back and catch the little fish .
He must then cut it in six pieces -- one of these you must eat , and your husband the second , and soon after you will have two children .
The third piece you must give to the dog , and she will have two puppies .
The fourth piece give to the mare , and she will have two foals .
The fifth piece bury on the right of the house door , and the sixth on the left , and two cypress trees will spring up there . '
When the fisherman came home at evening his wife told him all that the old woman had advised , and he promised to bring home the little gold-fish .
Next morning , therefore , he went very early to the water , and caught the little fish .
Then they did as the old woman had ordered , and in due time the fisherman 's wife had two sons , so like each other that no one could tell the difference .
The dog had two puppies exactly alike , the mare had two foals , and on each side of the front door there sprang up two cypress trees precisely similar .
When the two boys were grown up , they were not content to remain at home , though they had wealth in plenty ; but they wished to go out into the world , and make a name for themselves .
Their father would not allow them both to go at once , as they were the only children he had .
He said : ` First one shall travel , and when he is come back then the other may go . '
So the one took his horse and his dog , and went , saying to his brother : ` So long as the cypress trees are green , that is a sign that I am alive and well ; but if one begins to wither , then make haste and come to me . '
So he went forth into the world .
One day he stopped at the house of an old woman , and as at evening he sat before the door , he perceived in front of him a castle standing on a hill .
He asked the old woman to whom it belonged , and her answer was : ` My son , it is the castle of the Fairest in the Land ! '
` And I am come here to woo her ! '
` That , my son , many have sought to do , and have lost their lives in the attempt ; for she has cut off their heads and stuck them on the post you see standing there . '
` And the same will she do to me , or else I shall be victor , for to-morrow I go there to court her . '
Then he took his zither and played upon it so beautifully that no one in all that land had ever heard the like , and the princess herself came to the window to listen .
The next morning the Fairest in the Land sent for the old woman and asked her , ` Who is it that lives with you , and plays the zither so well ? '
` It is a stranger , princess , who arrived yesterday evening , ' answered the old woman .
And the princess then commanded that the stranger should be brought to her .
When he appeared before the princess she questioned him about his home and his family , and about this and that ; and confessed at length that his zither-playing gave her great pleasure , and that she would take him for her husband .
The stranger replied that it was with that intent he had come .
The princess then said : ` You must now go to my father , and tell him you desire to have me to wife , and when he has put the three problems before you , then come back and tell me . '
The stranger then went straight to the king , and told him that he wished to wed his daughter .
And the king answered : ' I shall be well pleased , provided you can do what I impose upon you ; if not you will lose your head .
Now , listen ; out there on the ground , there lies a thick log , which measures more than two fathoms ; if you can cleave it in two with one stroke of your sword , I will give you my daughter to wife .
If you fail , then it will cost you your head . '
Then the stranger withdrew , and returned to the house of the old woman sore distressed , for he could believe nothing but that next day he must atone to the king with his head .
And so full was he of the idea of how to set about cleaving the log that he forgot even his zither .
In the evening came the princess to the window to listen to his playing , and behold all was still .
Then she called to him : ` Why are you so cast down this evening , that you do not play on your zither ? '
And he told her his trouble .
But she laughed at it , and called to him : ` And you grieve over that ?
Bring quickly your zither , and play something for my amusement , and early to-morrow come to me . '
Then the stranger took his zither and played the whole evening for the amusement of the princess .
Next morning she took a hair from her locks and gave it to him , saying : ` Take this hair , and wind it round your sword , then you will be able to cleave the log in two . '
Then the stranger went forth , and with one blow cleft the log in two .
But the king said : ' I will impose another task upon you , before you can wed my daughter . '
` Speak on , ' said the stranger .
` Listen , then , ' answered the king ; ` you must mount a horse and ride three miles at full gallop , holding in each hand a goblet full of water .
If you spill no drop then I shall give you my daughter to wife , but should you not succeed then I will take your life . '
Then the stranger returned to the house of the old woman , and again he was so troubled as to forget his zither .
In the evening the princess came to the window as before to listen to the music , but again all was still ; and she called to him : ` What is the matter that you do not play on your zither ? '
Then he related all that the king had ordered him to do , and the princess answered : ` Do not let yourself be disturbed , only play now , and come to me to-morrow morning . '
Then next morning he went to her , and she gave him her ring , saying : ` Throw this ring into the water and it will immediately freeze , so that you will not spill any . '
The stranger did as the princess bade him , and carried the water all the way .
Then the king said : ` Now I will give you a third task , and this shall be the last .
I have a negro who will fight with you to-morrow , and if you are the conqueror you shall wed my daughter . '
The stranger returned , full of joy , to the house of the old woman , and that evening was so merry that the princess called to him : ` You seem very cheerful this evening ; what has my father told you that makes you so glad ? '
He answered : ` Your father has told me that to-morrow I must fight with his negro .
He is only another man like myself , and I hope to subdue him , and to gain the contest . '
But the princess answered : ` This is the hardest of all .
I myself am the black man , for I swallow a drink that changes me into a negro of unconquerable strength .
Go to-morrow morning to the market , buy twelve buffalo hides and wrap them round your horse ; fasten this cloth round you , and when I am let loose upon you to-morrow show it to me , that I may hold myself back and may not kill you .
Then when you fight me you must try to hit my horse between the eyes , for when you have killed it you have conquered me . '
Next morning , therefore , he went to the market and bought the twelve buffalo hides which he wrapped round his horse .
Then he began to fight with the black man , and when the combat had already lasted a long time , and eleven hides were torn , then the stranger hit the negro 's horse between the eyes , so that it fell dead , and the black man was defeated .
Then said the king : ` Because you have solved the three problems I take you for my son-in-law . '
But the stranger answered : ' I have some business to conclude first ; in fourteen days I will return and bring the bride home . '
So he arose and went into another country , where he came to a great town , and alighted at the house of an old woman .
When he had had supper he begged of her some water to drink , but she answered : ` My son , I have no water ; a giant has taken possession of the spring , and only lets us draw from it once a year , when we bring him a maiden .
He eats her up , and then he lets us draw water ; just now it is the lot of the king 's daughter , and to-morrow she will be led forth . '
The next day accordingly the princess was led forth to the spring , and bound there with a golden chain .
After that all the people went away and she was left alone .
When they had gone the stranger went to the maiden and asked her what ailed her that she lamented so much , and she answered that the reason was because the giant would come and eat her up .
And the stranger promised that he would set her free if she would take him for her husband , and the princess joyfully consented .
When the giant appeared the stranger set his dog at him , and it took him by the throat and throttled him till he died ; so the princess was set free .
Now when the king heard of it he gladly consented to the marriage , and the wedding took place with great rejoicings .
The young bridegroom abode in the palace one hundred and one weeks .
Then he began to find it too dull , and he desired to go out hunting .
The king would fain have prevented it , but in this he could not succeed .
Then he begged his son-in-law at least to take sufficient escort with him , but this , too , the young man evaded , and took only his horse and his dog .
He had ridden already a long way , when he saw in the distance a hut , and rode straight towards it in order to get some water to drink .
There he found an old woman from whom he begged the water .
She answered that first he should allow her to beat his dog with her little wand , that it might not bite her while she fetched the water .
The hunter consented ; and as soon as she had touched the dog with her wand it immediately turned to stone .
Thereupon she touched the hunter and also his horse , and both turned to stone .
As soon as that had happened , the cypress trees in front of his father 's house began to wither .
And when the other brother saw this , he immediately set out in search of his twin .
He came first to the town where his brother had slain the giant , and there fate led him to the same old woman where his brother had lodged .
When she saw him she took him for his twin brother , and said to him : ` Do not take it amiss of me , my son , that I did not come to wish you joy on your marriage with the king 's daughter . '
The stranger perceived what mistake she had made , but only said : ` That does not matter , old woman , ' and rode on , without further speech , to the king 's palace , where the king and the princess both took him for his twin brother , and called out : ` Why have you tarried so long away ?
We thought something evil had befallen you . '
When night came and he slept with the princess , who still believed him to be her husband , he laid his sword between them , and when morning came he rose early and went out to hunt .
Fate led him by the same way which his brother had taken , and from a distance he saw him and knew that he was turned to stone .
Then he entered the hut and ordered the old woman to disenchant his brother .
But she answered : ` Let me first touch your dog with my wand , and then I will free your brother . '
He ordered the dog , however , to take hold of her , and bite her up to the knee , till she cried out : ` Tell your dog to let me go and I will set your brother free ! '
But he only answered : ` Tell me the magic words that I may disenchant him myself ; ' and as she would not he ordered his dog to bite her up to the hip .
Then the old woman cried out : ' I have two wands , with the green one I turn to stone , and with the red one I bring to life again . '
So the hunter took the red wand and disenchanted his brother , also his brother 's horse , and his dog , and ordered his own dog to eat the old woman up altogether .
While the brothers went on their way back to the castle of the king , the one brother related to the other how the cypress tree had all at once dried up and withered , how he had immediately set out in search of his twin , and how he had come to the castle of his father-in-law , and had claimed the princess as his wife .
But the other brother became furious on hearing this , and smote him over the forehead till he died , and returned alone to the house of his father-in-law .
-LSB- Illustration : THE TWIN BROTHERS THE BROTHER COMES TO THE RESCUE -RSB- When night came and he was in bed the princess asked him : ` What was the matter with you last night , that you never spoke a word to me ? '
Then he cried out : ` That was not me , but my brother , and I have slain him , because he told me by the way that he had claimed you for his wife ! '
` Do you know the place where you slew him ? '
asked the princess , ` and can you find the body ? ' '
I know the place exactly . '
` Then to-morrow we shall ride thither , ' said the princess .
Next morning accordingly they set out together , and when they had come to the place , the princess drew forth a small bottle that she had brought with her , and sprinkled the body with some drops of the water so that immediately he became alive again .
When he stood up , his brother said to him : ` Forgive me , dear brother , that I slew you in my anger . '
Then they embraced and went together to the Fairest in the Land , whom the unmarried brother took to wife .
Then the brothers brought their parents to live with them , and all dwelt together in joy and happiness .
CANNETELLA There was once upon a time a king who reigned over a country called ` Bello Puojo . '
He was very rich and powerful , and had everything in the world he could desire except a child .
But at last , after he had been married for many years , and was quite an old man , his wife Renzolla presented him with a fine daughter , whom they called Cannetella .
She grew up into a beautiful girl , and was as tall and straight as a young fir-tree .
When she was eighteen years old her father called her to him and said : ` You are of an age now , my daughter , to marry and settle down ; but as I love you more than anything else in the world , and desire nothing but your happiness , I am determined to leave the choice of a husband to yourself .
Choose a man after your own heart , and you are sure to satisfy me . '
Cannetella thanked her father very much for his kindness and consideration , but told him that she had not the slightest wish to marry , and was quite determined to remain single .
The king , who felt himself growing old and feeble , and longed to see an heir to the throne before he died , was very unhappy at her words , and begged her earnestly not to disappoint him .
When Cannetella saw that the king had set his heart on her marriage , she said : ` Very well , dear father , I will marry to please you , for I do not wish to appear ungrateful for all your love and kindness ; but you must find me a husband handsomer , cleverer , and more charming than anyone else in the world . '
The king was overjoyed by her words , and from early in the morning till late at night he sat at the window and looked carefully at all the passers-by , in the hopes of finding a son-in-law among them .
One day , seeing a very good-looking man crossing the street , the king called his daughter and said : ` Come quickly , dear Cannetella , and look at this man , for I think he might suit you as a husband . '
They called the young man into the palace , and set a sumptuous feast before him , with every sort of delicacy you can imagine .
In the middle of the meal the youth let an almond fall out of his mouth , which , however , he picked up again very quickly and hid under the table-cloth .
When the feast was over the stranger went away ' , and the king asked Cannetella : ` Well , what did you think of the youth ? ' '
I think he was a clumsy wretch , ' replied Cannetella .
` Fancy a-man of his age letting an almond fall out of his mouth ! '
When the king heard her answer he returned to his watch at the window , and shortly afterwards a very handsome young man passed by .
The king instantly called his daughter to come and see what she thought of the new comer .
` Call him in , ' said Cannetella , ` that we may see him close . '
Another splendid feast was prepared , and when the stranger had eaten and drunk as much as he was able , and had taken his departure , the king asked Cannetella how she liked him .
` Not at all , ' replied his daughter ; ` what could you do with a man who requires at least two servants to help him on with his cloak , because he is too awkward to put it on properly himself ? '
` If that 's all you have against him , ' said the king , ' I see how the land lies .
You are determined not to have a husband at all ; but marry someone you shall , for I do not mean my name and house to die out . '
` Well , then , my dear parent , ' said Cannetella , ' I must tell you at once that you had better not count upon me , for I never mean to marry unless I can find a man with a gold head and gold teeth . '
The king was very angry at finding his daughter so obstinate ; but as he always gave the girl her own way in everything , he issued a proclamation to the effect that any man with a gold head and gold teeth might come forward and claim the princess as his bride , and the kingdom of Bello Puojo as a wedding gift .
Now the king had a deadly enemy called Scioravante , who was a very powerful magician .
No sooner had this man heard of the proclamation than he summoned his attendant spirits and commanded them to gild his head and teeth .
The spirits said , at first , that the task was beyond their powers , and suggested that a pair of golden horns attached to his forehead would both be easier to make and more comfortable to wear ; but Scioravante would allow no compromise , and insisted on having a head and teeth made of the finest gold .
When it was fixed on his shoulders he went for a stroll in front of the palace .
And the king , seeing the very man he was in search of , called his daughter , and said : ` Just look out of the window , and you will find exactly what you want . '
Then , as Scioravante was hurrying past , the king shouted out to him : ` Just stop a minute , brother , and do n't be in such desperate haste .
If you will step in here you shall have my daughter for a wife , and I will send attendants with her , and as many horses and servants as you wish . ' '
A thousand thanks , ' returned Scioravante ; ' I shall be delighted to marry your daughter , but it is quite unnecessary to send anyone to accompany her .
Give me a horse and I will carry off the princess in front of my saddle , and will bring her to my own kingdom , where there is no lack of courtiers or servants , or , indeed , of anything your daughter can desire . '
At first the king was very much against Cannetella 's departing in this fashion ; but finally Scioravante got his way , and placing the princess before him on his horse , he set out for his own country .
Towards evening he dismounted , and entering a stable he placed Cannetella in the same stall as his horse , and said to her : ` Now listen to what I have to say .
I am going to my home now , and that is a seven years ' journey from here ; you must wait for me in this stable , and never move from the spot , or let yourself be seen by a living soul .
If you disobey my commands , it will be the worse for you . '
-LSB- Illustration : SCIORAVANTE LEAVES CANNETELLA IN THE STABLE -RSB- The princess answered meekly : ` Sir I am your servant , and will do exactly as you bid me ; but I should like to know what I am to live on till you come back ? '
` You can take what the horses leave , ' was Scioravante 's reply .
When the magician had left her Cannetella felt very miserable , and bitterly cursed the day she was born .
She spent all her time weeping and bemoaning the cruel fate that had driven her from a palace into a stable , from soft , down cushions to a bed of straw , and from the dainties of her father 's table to the food that the horses left .
She led this wretched life for a few months , and during that time she never saw who fed and watered the horses , for it was all done by invisible hands .
One day , when she was more than usually unhappy , she perceived a little crack in the wall , through which she could see a beautiful garden , with all manner of delicious fruits and flowers growing in it .
The sight and smell of such delicacies were too much for poor Cannetella , and she said to herself , ' I will slip quietly out , and pick a few oranges and grapes , and I do n't care what happens .
Who is there to tell my husband what I do ?
and even if he should hear of my disobedience , he can not make my life more miserable than it is already . '
So she slipped out and refreshed her poor , starved body with the fruit she plucked in the garden .
But a short time afterwards her husband returned unexpectedly , and one of the horses instantly told him that Cannetella had gone into the garden , in his absence , and had stolen some oranges and grapes .
Scioravante was furious when he heard this , and seizing a huge knife from his pocket he threatened to kill his wife for her disobedience .
But Cannetella threw herself at his feet and implored him to spare her life , saying that hunger drove even the wolf from the wood .
At last she succeeded in so far softening her husband 's heart that he said , ' I will forgive you this time , and spare your life ; but if you disobey me again , and I hear , on my return , that you have as much as moved out of the stall , I will certainly kill you .
So , beware ; for I am going away once more , and shall be absent for seven years . '
With these words he took his departure , and Cannetella burst into a flood of tears , and , wringing her hands , she moaned : ` Why was I ever born to such a hard fate ?
Oh !
father , how miserable you have made your poor daughter !
But , why should I blame my father ?
for I have only myself to thank for all my sufferings .
I got the cursed head of gold , and it has brought all this misery on me .
I am indeed punished for not doing as my father wished ! '
When a year had gone by , it chanced , one day , that the king 's cooper passed the stables where Cannetella was kept prisoner .
She recognised the man , and called him to come in .
At first he did not know the poor princess , and could not make out who it was that called him by name .
But when he heard Cannetella 's tale of woe , he hid her in a big empty barrel he had with him , partly because he was sorry for the poor girl , and , even more , because he wished to gain the king 's favour .
Then he slung the barrel on the mule 's back , and in this way the princess was carried to her own home .
They arrived at the palace about four o'clock in the morning , and the cooper knocked loudly at the door .
When the servants came in haste and saw only the cooper standing at the gate , they were very indignant , and scolded him soundly for coming at such an hour and waking them all out of their sleep .
The king hearing the noise and the cause of it , sent for the cooper , for he felt certain the man must have some important business , to have come and disturbed the whole palace at such an early hour .
The cooper asked permission to unload his mule , and Cannetella crept out of the barrel .
At first the king refused to believe that it was really his daughter , for she had changed so terribly in a few years , and had grown so thin and pale , that it was pitiful to see her .
At last the princess showed her father a mole she had on her right arm , and then he saw that the poor girl was indeed his long-lost Cannetella .
He kissed her a thousand times , and instantly had the choicest food and drink set before her .
-LSB- Illustration : CANNETELLA COMES OUT OF THE CASK -RSB- After she had satisfied her hunger , the king said to her : ` Who would have thought , my dear daughter , to have found you in such a state ?
What , may I ask , has brought you to this pass ? '
Cannetella replied : ` That wicked man with the gold head and teeth treated me worse than a dog , and many a time , since I left you , have I longed to die .
But I could n't tell you all that I have suffered , for you would never believe me .
It is enough that I am once more with you , and I shall never leave you again , for I would rather be a slave in your house than queen in any other . '
In the meantime Scioravante had returned to the stables , and one of the horses told him that Cannetella had been taken away by a cooper in a barrel .
When the wicked magician heard this he was beside himself with rage , and , hastening to the kingdom of Bello Puojo , he went straight to an old woman who lived exactly opposite the royal palace , and said to her : ` If you will let me see the king 's daughter ' , I will give you whatever reward you like to ask for . '
The woman demanded a hundred ducats of gold , and Scioravante counted them out of his purse and gave them to her without a murmur .
Then the old woman led him to the roof of the house , where he could see Cannetella combing out her long hair in a room in the top story of the palace .
The princess happened to look out of the window , and when she saw her husband gazing at her , she got such a fright that she flew downstairs to the king , and said : ` My lord and father , unless you shut me up instantly in a room with seven iron doors , I am lost . '
` If that 's all ' said the king , ` it shall be done at once . '
And he gave orders for the doors to be closed on the spot .
When Scioravante saw this he returned to the old woman , and said : ' I will give you whatever you like if you will go into the palace , hide under the princess 's bed , and slip this little piece of paper beneath her pillow , saying , as you do so : `` May everyone in the palace , except the princess , fall into a sound sleep . '' '
The old woman demanded another hundred golden ducats , and then proceeded to carry out the magician 's wishes .
No sooner had she slipped the piece of paper under Cannetella 's pillow , than all the people in the palace fell fast asleep , and only the princess remained awake .
Then Scioravante hurried to the seven doors and opened them one after the other .
Cannetella screamed with terror when she saw her husband , but no one came to her help , for all in the palace lay as if they were dead .
The magician seized her in the bed on which she lay , and was going to carry her off with him , when the little piece of paper which the old woman had placed under her pillow fell on the floor .
In an instant all the people in the palace woke up , and as Cannetella was still screaming for help , they rushed to her rescue .
They seized Scioravante and put him to death ; so he was caught in the trap which he had laid for the princess -- and , as is so often the case in this world , the biter himself was bit .
-LSB- From the Italian , Kletke . -RSB-
THE OGRE There lived , once upon a time , in the land of Marigliano , a poor woman called Masella , who had six pretty daughters , all as upright as young fir-trees , and an only son called Antonio , who was so simple as to be almost an idiot .
Hardly a day passed without his mother saying to him ; ` What are you doing , you useless creature ?
If you were n't too stupid to look after yourself , I would order you to leave the house and never to let me see your face again . '
Every day the youth committed some fresh piece of folly , till at last Masella , losing all patience , gave him a good beating , which so startled Antonio that he took to his heels and never stopped running till it was dark and the stars were shining in the heavens .
He wandered on for some time , not knowing where to go , and at last he came to a cave , at the mouth of which sat an ogre , uglier than anything you can conceive .
He had a huge head and wrinkled brow -- eyebrows that met , squinting eyes , a flat broad nose , and a great gash of a mouth from which two huge tusks stuck out .
His skin was hairy , his arms enormous , his legs like sword blades , and his feet as flat as ducks ' .
In short , he was the most hideous and laughable object in the world .
But Antonio , who , with all his faults , was no coward , and was moreover a very civil-spoken lad , took off his hat , and said : ` Good-day , sir ; I hope you are pretty well .
Could you kindly tell me how far it is from here to the place where I wish to go ? '
-LSB- Illustration : ANTONIO · IS · NOT · AFRAID · OF · THE · OGRE -RSB- When the ogre heard this extraordinary question he burst out laughing , and as he liked the youth 's polite manners he said to him : ` Will you enter my service ? '
` What wages do you give ? '
replied Antonio .
` If you serve me faithfully , ' returned the ogre , ` I 'll be bound you 'll get enough wages to satisfy you . '
So the bargain was struck , and Antonio agreed to become the ogre 's servant .
He was very well treated , in every way , and he had little or no work to do , with the result that in a few days he became as fat as a quail , as round as a barrel , as red as a lobster , and as impudent as a bantam-cock .
But , after two years , the lad got weary of this idle life , and longed desperately to visit his home again .
The ogre , who could see into his heart and knew how unhappy he was , said to him one day : ` My dear Antonio , I know how much you long to see your mother and sisters again , and because I love you as the apple of my eye , I am willing to allow you to go home for a visit .
Therefore , take this donkey , so that you may not have to go on foot ; but see that you never say `` Bricklebrit '' to him , for if you do you 'll be sure to regret it . '
Antonio took the beast without as much as saying thank you , and jumping on its back he rode away in great haste ; but he had n't gone two hundred yards when he dismounted and called out ` Bricklebrit . '
No sooner had he pronounced the word than the donkey opened its mouth and poured forth rubies , emeralds , diamonds and pearls , as big as walnuts .
Antonio gazed in amazement at the sight of such wealth , and joyfully filling a huge sack with the precious stones , he mounted the donkey again and rode on till he came to an inn .
Here he got down , and going straight to the landlord , he said to him : ` My good man , I must ask you to stable this donkey for me .
Be sure you give the poor beast plenty of oats and hay , but beware of saying the word `` Bricklebrit '' to him , for if you do I can promise you will regret it .
Take this heavy sack , too , and put it carefully away for me . '
The landlord , who was no fool , on receiving this strange warning , and seeing the precious stones sparkling through the canvas of the sack , was most anxious to see what would happen if he used the forbidden word .
So he gave Antonio an excellent dinner , with a bottle of fine old wine , and prepared a comfortable bed for him .
As soon as he saw the poor simpleton close his eyes and had heard his lusty snores , he hurried to the stables and said to the donkey ` Bricklebrit , ' and the animal as usual poured out any number of precious stones .
When the landlord saw all these treasures he longed to get possession of so valuable an animal , and determined to steal the donkey from his foolish guest .
As soon as it was light next morning Antonio awoke , and having rubbed his eyes and stretched himself about a hundred times he called the landlord and said to him : ` Come here , my friend , and produce your bill , for short reckonings make long friends . '
When Antonio had paid his account he went to the stables and took out his donkey , as he thought , and fastening a sack of gravel , which the landlord had substituted for his precious stones , on the creature 's back , he set out for his home .
No sooner had he arrived there than he called out : ` Mother , come quickly , and bring table-cloths and sheets with you , and spread them out on the ground , and you will soon see what wonderful treasures I have brought you . '
His mother hurried into the house , and opening the linen-chest where she kept her daughters ' wedding outfits , she took out table-cloths and sheets made of the finest linen , and spread them flat and smooth on the ground .
Antonio placed the donkey on them , and called out ` Bricklebrit . '
But this time he met with no success , for the donkey took no more notice of the magic word than he would have done if a lyre had been twanged in his ear .
Two , three , and four times did Antonio pronounce ` Bricklebrit , ' but all in vain , and he might as well have spoken to the wind .
Disgusted and furious with the poor creature , he seized a thick stick and began to beat it so hard that he nearly broke every bone in its body .
The miserable donkey was so distracted at such treatment that , far from pouring out precious stones , it only tore and dirtied all the fine linen .
When poor Masella saw her table-cloths and sheets being destroyed , and that instead of becoming rich she had only been made a fool of , she seized another stick and belaboured Antonio so unmercifully with it , that he fled before her , and never stopped till he reached the ogre 's cave .
When his master saw the lad returning in such a sorry plight , he understood at once what had happened to him , and making no bones about the matter , he told Antonio what a fool he had been to allow himself to be so imposed upon by the landlord , and to let a worthless animal be palmed off on him instead of his magic donkey .
Antonio listened humbly to the ogre 's words , and vowed solemnly that he would never act so foolishly again .
And so a year passed , and once more Antonio was overcome by a fit of home-sickness , and felt a great longing to see his own people again .
Now the ogre , although he was so hideous to look upon , had a very kind heart , and when he saw how restless and unhappy Antonio was , he at once gave him leave to go home on a visit .
At parting he gave him a beautiful table-cloth , and said : ` Give this to your mother ; but see that you do n't lose it as you lost the donkey , and till you are safely in your own house beware of saying `` Table-cloth , open , '' and `` Table-cloth , shut . ''
If you do , the misfortune be on your own head , for I have given you fair warning . '
Antonio set out on his journey , but hardly had he got out of sight of the cave than he laid the table-cloth on the ground and said , ` Table-cloth , open . '
In an instant the table-cloth unfolded itself and disclosed a whole mass of precious stones and other treasures .
When Antonio perceived this he said , ` Table-cloth , shut , ' and continued his journey .
He came to the same inn again , and calling the landlord to him , he told him to put the table-cloth carefully away , and whatever he did not to say ` Table-cloth , open , ' or ` Table-cloth , shut , ' to it .
The landlord , who was a regular rogue , answered , ` Just leave it to me , I will look after it as if it were my own . '
After he had given Antonio plenty to eat and drink , and had provided him with a comfortable bed , he went straight to the table-cloth and said , ` Table-cloth , open . '
It opened at once , and displayed such costly treasures that the landlord made up his mind on the spot to steal it .
When Antonio awoke next morning , the host handed him over a table-cloth exactly like his own , and carrying it carefully over his arm , the foolish youth went straight to his mother 's house , and said : ` Now we shall be rich beyond the dreams of avarice , and need never go about in rags again , or lack the best of food . '
With these words he spread the table-cloth on the ground and said , ` Table-cloth , open . '
But he might repeat the injunction as often as he pleased , it was only waste of breath , for nothing happened .
When Antonio saw this he turned to his mother and said : ` That old scoundrel of a landlord has done me once more ; but he will live to repent it , for if I ever enter his inn again , I will make him suffer for the loss of my donkey and the other treasures he has robbed me of . '
Masella was in such a rage over her fresh disappointment that she could not restrain her impatience , and , turning on Antonio , she abused him soundly , and told him to get out of her sight at once , for she would never acknowledge him as a son of hers again .
The poor boy was very depressed by her words , and slunk back to his master like a dog with his tail between his legs .
When the ogre saw him , he guessed at once what had happened .
He gave Antonio a good scolding , and said , ' I do n't know what prevents me smashing your head in , you useless ne'er - do-well !
You blurt everything out , and your long tongue never ceases wagging for a moment .
If you had remained silent in the inn this misfortune would never have overtaken you , so you have only yourself to blame for your present suffering . '
Antonio listened to his master 's words in silence , looking for all the world like a whipped dog .
When he had been three more years in the ogre 's service he had another bad fit of home-sickness , and longed very much to see his mother and sisters again .
So he asked for permission to go home on a visit , and it was at once granted to him .
Before he set out on his journey the ogre presented him with a beautifully carved stick and said , ` Take this stick as a remembrance of me ; but beware of saying , `` Rise up , Stick , '' and `` Lie down , Stick , '' for if you do , I can only say I would n't be in your shoes for something . '
Antonio took the stick and said , ` Do n't be in the least alarmed , I 'm not such a fool as you think , and know better than most people what two and two make . '
` I 'm glad to hear it , ' replied the ogre , ` but words are women , deeds are men .
You have heard what I said , and forewarned is forearmed . '
This time Antonio thanked his master warmly for all his kindness , and started on his homeward journey in great spirits ; but he had not gone half a mile when he said ` Rise up , Stick . '
The words were hardly out of his mouth when the stick rose and began to rain down blows on poor Antonio 's back with such lightning-like rapidity that he had hardly strength to call out , ` Lie down , Stick ' ; but as soon as he uttered the words the stick lay down , and ceased beating his back black and blue .
Although he had learnt a lesson at some cost to himself , Antonio was full of joy , for he saw a way now of revenging himself on the wicked landlord .
Once more he arrived at the inn , and was received in the most friendly and hospitable manner by his host .
Antonio greeted him cordially , and said : ` My friend , will you kindly take care of this stick for me ?
But , whatever you do , do n't say `` Rise up , Stick . ''
If you do , you will be sorry for it , and you need n't expect any sympathy from me . '
The landlord , thinking he was coming in for a third piece of good fortune , gave Antonio an excellent supper ; and after he had seen him comfortably to bed , he ran to the stick , and calling to his wife to come and see the fun , he lost no time in pronouncing the words ` Rise up , Stick . '
The moment he spoke the stick jumped up and beat the landlord so unmercifully that he and his wife ran screaming to Antonio , and , waking him up , pleaded for mercy .
When Antonio saw how successful his trick had been he said : ' I refuse to help you , unless you give me all that you have stolen from me , otherwise you will be beaten to death . '
The landlord , who felt himself at death 's door already , cried out : ` Take back your property , only release me from this terrible stick ; ' and with these words he ordered the donkey , the table-cloth , and other treasures to be restored to their rightful owner .
As soon as Antonio had recovered his belongings he said ` Stick , lie down , ' and it stopped beating the landlord at once .
Then he took his donkey and table-cloth and arrived safely at his home with them .
This time the magic words had the desired effect , and the donkey and table-cloth provided the family with treasures untold .
Antonio very soon married off his sister , made his mother rich for life , and they all lived happily for ever after .
-LSB- From the Italian , Kletke . -RSB-
A FAIRY 'S BLUNDER Once upon a time there lived a fairy whose name was Dindonette .
She was the best creature in the world , with the kindest heart ; but she had not much sense , and was always doing things , to benefit people , which generally ended in causing pain and distress to everybody concerned .
No one knew this better than the inhabitants of an island far off in the midst of the sea , which , according to the laws of fairyland , she had taken under her special protection , thinking day and night of what she could do to make the isle the pleasantest place in the whole world , as it was the most beautiful .
Now what happened was this : As the fairy went about , unseen , from house to house , she heard everywhere children longing for the time when they would be ` grown-up , ' and able , they thought , to do as they liked ; and old people talking about the past , and sighing to be young again .
` Is there no way of satisfying these poor things ? '
she thought .
And then one night an idea occurred to her .
` Oh , yes , of course !
It has been tried before ; but I will manage better than the rest , with their old Fountain of Youth , which , after all , only made people young again .
I will enchant the spring that bubbles up in the middle of the orchard , and the children that drink of it shall at once become grown men and women , and the old people return to the days of their childhood . '
And without stopping to consult one single other fairy , who might have given her good advice , off rushed Dindonette , to cast her spell over the fountain .
It was the only spring of fresh water in the island , and at dawn was crowded with people of all ages , come to drink at its source .
Delighted at her plan for making them all happy , the fairy hid herself behind a thicket of roses , and peeped out whenever footsteps came that way .
It was not long before she had ample proof of the success of her enchantments .
Almost before her eyes the children put on the size and strength of adults , while the old men and women instantly became helpless , tiny babies .
Indeed , so pleased was she with the result of her work , that she could no longer remain hidden , and went about telling everybody what she had done , and enjoying their gratitude and thanks .
But after the first outburst of delight at their wishes being granted , people began to be a little frightened at the rapid effects of the magic water .
It was delicious to feel yourself at the height of your power and beauty , but you would wish to keep so always !
Now this was exactly what the fairy had been in too much of a hurry to arrange , and no sooner had the children become grown up , and the men and women become babies , than they all rushed on to old age at an appalling rate !
The fairy only found out her mistake when it was too late to set it right .
When the inhabitants of the island saw what had befallen them , they were filled with despair , and did everything they could think of to escape from such a dreadful fate .
They dug wells in their places , so that they should no longer need to drink from the magic spring ; but the sandy soil yielded no water , and the rainy season was already past .
They stored up the dew that fell , and the juice of fruits and of herbs , but all this was as a drop in the ocean of their wants .
Some threw themselves into the sea , trusting that the current might carry them to other shores -- they had no boats -- and a few , still more impatient , put themselves to death on the spot .
The rest submitted blindly to their destiny .
Perhaps the worst part of the enchantment was , that the change from one age to another was so rapid that the person had no time to prepare himself for it .
It would not have mattered so much if the man who stood up in the assembly of the nation , to give his advice as to peace or war , had looked like a baby , as long as he spoke with the knowledge and sense of a full-grown man .
But , alas !
with the outward form of an infant , he had taken on its helplessness and foolishness , and there was no one who could train him to better things .
The end of it all was , that before a month had passed the population had died out , and the fairy Dindonette , ashamed and grieved at the effects of her folly , had left the island for ever .
Many centuries after , the fairy Selnozoura , who had fallen into bad health , was ordered by her doctors to make the tour of the world twice a week for change of air , and in one of these journeys she found herself at Fountain Island .
Selnozoura never made these trips alone , but always took with her two children , of whom she was very fond -- Cornichon , a boy of fourteen , bought in his childhood at a slave-market , and Toupette , a few months younger , who had been entrusted to the care of the fairy by her guardian , the genius Kristopo .
Cornichon and Toupette were intended by Selnozoura to become husband and wife , as soon as they were old enough .
Meanwhile , they travelled with her in a little vessel , whose speed through the air was just a thousand nine hundred and fifty times greater than that of the swiftest of our ships .
Struck with the beauty of the island , Selnozoura ran the vessel to ground , and leaving it in the care of the dragon which lived in the hold during the voyage , stepped on shore with her two companions .
Surprised at the sight of a large town whose streets and houses were absolutely desolate , the fairy resolved to put her magic arts in practice to find out the cause .
While she was thus engaged , Cornichon and Toupette wandered away by themselves , and by-and-by arrived at the fountain , whose bubbling waters looked cool and delicious on such a hot day .
Scarcely had they each drunk a deep draught , when the fairy , who by this time had discovered all she wished to know , hastened to the spot .
` Oh , beware !
beware ! '
she cried , the moment she saw them .
` If you drink that deadly poison you will be ruined for ever ! '
` Poison ? '
answered Toupette .
` It is the most refreshing water I have ever tasted , and Cornichon will say so too ! '
` Unhappy children , then I am too late !
Why did you leave me ?
Listen , and I will tell you what has befallen the wretched inhabitants of this island , and what will befall you too .
The power of fairies is great , ' she added , when she had finished her story , ` but they can not destroy the work of another fairy .
Very shortly you will pass into the weakness and silliness of extreme old age , and all I can do for you is to make it as easy to you as possible , and to preserve you from the death that others have suffered , from having no one to look after them .
But the charm is working already !
Cornichon is taller and more manly than he was an hour ago , and Toupette no longer looks like a little girl . '
It was true ; but this fact did not seem to render the young people as miserable as it did Selnozoura .
` Do not pity us , ' said Cornichon .
` If we are fated to grow old so soon , let us no longer delay our marriage .
What matter if we anticipate our decay , if we only anticipate our happiness too ? '
The fairy felt that Cornichon had reason on his side , and seeing by a glance at Toupette 's face that there was no opposition to be feared from her , she answered , ` Let it be so , then .
But not in this dreadful place .
We will return at once to Bagota , and the festivities shall be the most brilliant ever seen . '
They all returned to the vessel , and in a few hours the four thousand five hundred miles that lay between the island and Bagota were passed .
Everyone was surprised to see the change which the short absence had made in the young people , but as the fairy had promised absolute silence about the adventure , they were none the wiser , and busied themselves in preparing their dresses for the marriage , which was fixed for the next night .
Early on the following morning the genius Kristopo arrived at the Court , on one of the visits he was in the habit of paying his ward from time to time .
Like the rest , he was astonished at the sudden improvement in the child .
He had always been fond of her , and in a moment he fell violently in love .
Hastily demanding an audience of the fairy , he laid his proposals before her , never doubting that she would give her consent to so brilliant a match .
But Selnozoura refused to listen , and even hinted that in his own interest Kristopo had better turn his thoughts elsewhere .
The genius pretended to agree , but , instead , he went straight to Toupette 's room , and flew away with her through the window , at the very instant that the bridegroom was awaiting her below .
When the fairy discovered what had happened , she was furious , and sent messenger after messenger to the genius in his palace at Ratibouf , commanding him to restore Toupette without delay , and threatening to make war in case of refusal .
Kristopo gave no direct answer to the fairy 's envoys , but kept Toupette closely guarded in a tower , where the poor girl used all her powers of persuasion to induce him to put off their marriage .
All would , however , have been quite in vain if , in the course of a few days , sorrow , joined to the spell of the magic water , had not altered her appearance so completely that Kristopo was quite alarmed , and declared that she needed amusement and fresh air , and that , as his presence seemed to distress her , she should be left her own mistress .
But one thing he declined to do , and that was to send her back to Bagota .
In the meantime both sides had been busily collecting armies , and Kristopo had given the command of his to a famous general , while Selnozoura had placed Cornichon at the head of her forces .
But before war was actually declared , Toupette 's parents , who had been summoned by the genius , arrived at Ratibouf .
They had never seen their daughter since they parted from her as a baby , but from time to time travellers to Bagota had brought back accounts of her beauty .
What was their amazement , therefore , at finding , instead of a lovely girl , a middle-aged woman , handsome indeed , but quite faded -- looking , in fact , older than themselves .
Kristopo , hardly less astonished than they were at the sudden change , thought that it was a joke on the part of one of his courtiers , who had hidden Toupette away , and put this elderly lady in her place .
Bursting with rage , he sent instantly for all the servants and guards of the town , and inquired who had the insolence to play him such a trick , and what had become of their prisoner .
They replied that since Toupette had been in their charge she had never left her rooms unveiled , and that during her walks in the surrounding gardens , her food had been brought in and placed on her table ; as she preferred to eat alone no one had ever seen her face , or knew what she was like .
The servants were clearly speaking the truth , and Kristopo was obliged to believe them .
` But , ' thought he , ` if they have not had a hand in this , it must be the work of the fairy , ' and in his anger he ordered the army to be ready to march .
On her side , Selnozoura of course knew what the genius had to expect , but was deeply offended when she heard of the base trick which she was believed to have invented .
Her first desire was to give battle to Kristopo at once , but with great difficulty her ministers induced her to pause , and to send an ambassador to Kristopo to try to arrange matters .
So the Prince Zeprady departed for the court of Ratibouf , and on his way he met Cornichon , who was encamped with his army just outside the gates of Bagota .
The Prince showed him the fairy 's written order that for the present peace must still be kept , and Cornichon , filled with longing to see Toupette once more , begged to be allowed to accompany Zeprady on his mission to Ratibouf .
By this time the genius 's passion for Toupette , which had caused all these troubles , had died out , and he willingly accepted the terms of peace offered by Zeprady , though he informed the prince that he still believed the fairy to be guilty of the dreadful change in the girl .
To this the prince only replied that on that point he had a witness who could prove , better than anyone else , if it was Toupette or not , and desired that Cornichon should be sent for .
When Toupette was told that she was to see her old lover again , her heart leapt with joy ; but soon the recollection came to her of all that had happened , and she remembered that Cornichon would be changed as well as she .
The moment of their meeting was not all happiness , especially on the part of Toupette , who could not forget her lost beauty , and the genius , who was present , was at last convinced that he had not been deceived , and went out to sign the treaty of peace , followed by his attendants .
` Ah , Toupette : my dear Toupette ! '
cried Cornichon , as soon as they were left alone ; ` now that we are once more united , let our past troubles be forgotten . '
` Our past troubles ! '
answered she , ` and what do you call our lost beauty and the dreadful future before us ?
You are looking fifty years older than when I saw you last , and I know too well that fate has treated me no better ! '
` Ah , do not say that , ' replied Cornichon , clasping her hand , ` You are different , it is true ; but every age has its graces , and surely no woman of sixty was ever handsomer than you !
If your eyes had been as bright as of yore they would have matched badly with your faded skin .
The wrinkles which I notice on your forehead explain the increased fulness of your cheeks , and your throat in withering is elegant in decay .
Thus the harmony shown by your features , even as they grow old , is the best proof of their former beauty .
` Oh , monster , ' cried Toupette , bursting into tears , ` is that all the comfort you can give me ? '
` But , Toupette , ' answered Cornichon ; ` you used to declare that you did not care for beauty , as long as you had my heart . '
` Yes , I know , ' said she , ` but how can you go on caring for a person who is as old and plain as I ? '
` Toupette , Toupette , ' replied Cornichon , ` you are only talking nonsense .
My heart is as much yours as ever it was , and nothing in the world can make any difference . '
At this point of the conversation the Prince Zeprady entered the room , with the news that the genius , full of regret for his behaviour , had given Cornichon full permission to depart for Bagota as soon as he liked , and to take Toupette with him ; adding that , though he begged they would excuse his taking leave of them before they went , he hoped , before long , to visit them at Bagota .
Neither of the lovers slept that night -- Cornichon from joy at returning home , Toupette from dread of the blow to her vanity which awaited her at Bagota .
It was hopeless for Cornichon to try to console her during the journey with the reasons he had given the day before .
She only grew worse and worse , and when they reached the palace went straight to her old apartments , entreating the fairy to allow both herself and Cornichon to remain concealed , and to see no one .
For some time after their arrival the fairy was taken up with the preparations for the rejoicings which were to celebrate the peace , and with the reception of the genius , who was determined to do all in his power to regain Selnozoura 's lost friendship .
Cornichon and Toupette were therefore left entirely to themselves , and though this was only what they wanted , still , they began to feel a little neglected .
At length , one morning , they saw from the windows that the fairy and the genius were approaching , in state , with all their courtiers in attendance .
Toupette instantly hid herself in the darkest corner of the room , but Cornichon , forgetting that he was now no longer a boy of fourteen , ran to meet them .
In so doing he tripped and fell , bruising one of his eyes severely .
At the sight of her lover lying helpless on the floor , Toupette hastened to his side ; but her feeble legs gave way under her , and she fell almost on top of him , knocking out three of her loosened teeth against his forehead .
The fairy , who entered the room at this moment , burst into tears , and listened in silence to the genius , who hinted that by-and-by everything would be put right .
` At the last assembly of the fairies , ' he said , ` when the doings of each fairy were examined and discussed , a proposal was made to lessen , as far as possible , the mischief caused by Dindonette by enchanting the fountain .
And it was decided that , as she had meant nothing but kindness , she should have the power of undoing one half of the spell .
Of course she might always have destroyed the fatal fountain , which would have been best of all ; but this she never thought of .
Yet , in spite of this , her heart is so good , that I am sure that the moment she hears that she is wanted she will fly to help .
Only , before she comes , it is for you , Madam , to make up your mind which of the two shall regain their former strength and beauty . '
At these words the fairy 's soul sank .
Both Cornichon and Toupette were equally dear to her , and how could she favour one at the cost of the other ?
As to the courtiers , none of the men were able to understand why she hesitated a second to declare for Toupette ; while the ladies were equally strong on the side of Cornichon .
But , however undecided the fairy might be , it was quite different with Cornichon and Toupette .
` Ah , my love , ' exclaimed Cornichon , ` at length I shall be able to give you the best proof of my devotion by showing you how I value the beauties of your mind above those of your body !
While the most charming women of the court will fall victims to my youth and strength , I shall think of nothing but how to lay them at your feet , and pay heart-felt homage to your age and wrinkles . '
` Not so fast , ' interrupted Toupette , ' I do n't see why you should have it all .
Why do you heap such humiliations upon me ?
But I will trust to the justice of the fairy , who will not treat me so . '
Then she entered her own rooms , and refused to leave them , in spite of the prayers of Cornichon , who begged her to let him explain .
No one at the court thought or spoke of any other subject during the few days before the arrival of Dindonette , whom everybody expected to set things right in a moment .
But , alas !
she had no idea herself what was best to be done , and always adopted the opinion of the person she was talking to .
At length a thought struck her , which seemed the only way of satisfying both parties , and she asked the fairy to call together all the court and the people to hear her decision .
` Happy is he , ' she began , ` who can repair the evil he has caused , but happier he who has never caused any . '
As nobody contradicted this remark , she continued : ` To me it is only allowed to undo one half of the mischief I have wrought .
I could restore you your youth , ' she said to Cornichon , ` or your beauty , ' turning to Toupette . '
I will do both ; and I will do neither . '
A murmur of curiosity arose from the crowd , while Cornichon and Toupette trembled with astonishment .
` No , ' went on Dindonette , ` never should I have the cruelty to leave one of you to decay , while the other enjoys the glory of youth .
And as I can not restore you both at once to what you were , one half of each of your bodies shall become young again , while the other half goes on its way to decay .
I will leave it to you to choose which half it shall be -- if I shall draw a line round the waist , or a line straight down the middle of the body . '
She looked about her proudly , expecting applause for her clever idea .
But Cornichon and Toupette were shaking with rage and disappointment , and everyone else broke into shouts of laughter .
In pity for the unhappy lovers , Selnozoura came forward .
` Do you not think , ' she said , ` that instead of what you propose , it would be better to let them take it in turns to enjoy their former youth and beauty for a fixed time ?
I am sure you could easily manage that . '
` What an excellent notion ! '
cried Dindonette .
` Oh , yes , of course that is best !
Which of you shall I touch first ? '
` Touch her , ' replied Cornichon , who was always ready to give way to Toupette . '
I know her heart too well to fear any change . '
So the fairy bent forward and touched her with her magic ring , and in one instant the old woman was a girl again .
The whole court wept with joy at the sight , and Toupette ran up to Cornichon , who had fallen down in his surprise , promising to pay him long visits , and tell him of all her balls and water parties .
The two fairies went to their own apartments , where the genius followed them to take his leave .
` Oh , dear ! '
suddenly cried Dindonette , breaking in to the farewell speech of the genius . '
I quite forgot to fix the time when Cornichon should in his turn grow young .
How stupid of me !
And now I fear it is too late , for I ought to have declared it before I touched Toupette with the ring .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear !
why did nobody warn me ? '
` You were so quick , ' replied Selnozoura , who had long been aware of the mischief the fairy had again done , ` and we can only wait now till Cornichon shall have reached the utmost limits of his decay , when he will drink of the water , and become a baby once more , so that Toupette will have to spend her life as a nurse , a wife , and a caretaker . '
After the anxiety of mind and the weakness of body to which for so long Toupette had been a prey , it seemed as if she could not amuse herself enough , and it was seldom indeed that she found time to visit poor Cornichon , though she did not cease to be fond of him , or to be kind to him .
Still , she was perfectly happy without him , and this the poor man did not fail to see , almost blind and deaf from age though he was .
But it was left to Kristopo to undo at last the work of Dindonette , and give Cornichon back the youth he had lost , and this the genius did all the more gladly , as he discovered , quite by accident , that Cornichon was in fact his son .
It was on this plea that he attended the great yearly meeting of the fairies , and prayed that , in consideration of his services to so many of the members , this one boon might be granted him .
Such a request had never before been heard in fairyland , and was objected to by some of the older fairies ; but both Kristopo and Selnozoura were held in such high honour that the murmurs of disgust were set aside , and the latest victim to the enchanted fountain was pronounced to be free of the spell .
All that the genius asked in return was that he might accompany the fairy back to Bagota , and be present when his son assumed his proper shape .
They made up their minds they would just tell Toupette that they had found a husband for her , and give her a pleasant surprise at her wedding , which was fixed for the following night .
She heard the news with astonishment , and many pangs for the grief which Cornichon would certainly feel at his place being taken by another ; but she did not dream of disobeying the fairy , and spent the whole day wondering who the bridegroom could be .
At the appointed hour , a large crowd assembled at the fairy 's palace , which was decorated with the sweetest flowers , known only to fairyland .
Toupette had taken her place , but where was the bridegroom ?
` Fetch Cornichon ! '
said the fairy to her chamberlain .
But Toupette interposed : ` Oh , Madam , spare him , I entreat you , this bitter pain , and let him remain hidden and in peace . '
` It is necessary that he should be here , ' answered the fairy , ` and he will not regret it . '
And , as she spoke , Cornichon was led in , smiling with the foolishness of extreme old age at the sight of the gay crowd .
` Bring him here , ' commanded the fairy , waving her hand towards Toupette , who started back from surprise and horror .
Selnozoura then took the hand of the poor old man , and the genius came forward and touched him three times with his ring , when Cornichon was transformed into a handsome young man .
` May you live long , ' the genius said , ` to enjoy happiness with your wife , and to love your father . '
And that was the end of the mischief wrought by the fairy Dindonette !
-LSB- Cabinet des Fées . -RSB-
LONG , BROAD , AND QUICKEYE -LRB- BOHEMIAN STORY -RRB- Once upon a time there lived a king who had an only son whom he loved dearly .
Now one day the king sent for his son and said to him : ` My dearest child , my hair is grey and I am old , and soon I shall feel no more the warmth of the sun , or look upon the trees and flowers .
But before I die I should like to see you with a good wife ; therefore marry , my son , as speedily as possible . '
` My father , ' replied the prince , ` now and always , I ask nothing better than to do your bidding , but I know of no daughter-in-law that I could give you . '
On hearing these words the old king drew from his pocket a key of gold , and gave it to his son , saying : ` Go up the staircase , right up to the top of the tower .
Look carefully round you , and then come and tell me which you like best of all that you see . '
So the young man went up .
He had never before been in the tower , and had no idea what it might contain .
The staircase wound round and round and round , till the prince was almost giddy , and every now and then he caught sight of a large room that opened out from the side .
But he had been told to go to the top , and to the top he went .
Then he found himself in a hall , which had an iron door at one end .
This door he unlocked with his golden key , and he passed through into a vast chamber which had a roof of blue sprinkled with golden stars , and a carpet of green silk soft as turf .
Twelve windows framed in gold let in the light of the sun , and on every window was painted the figure of a young girl , each more beautiful than the last .
While the prince gazed at them in surprise , not knowing which he liked best , the girls began to lift their eyes and smile at him .
He waited , expecting them to speak , but no sound came .
Suddenly he noticed that one of the windows was covered by a curtain of white silk .
He lifted it , and saw before him the image of a maiden beautiful as the day and sad as the tomb , clothed in a white robe , having a girdle of silver and a crown of pearls .
The prince stood and gazed at her , as if he had been turned into stone , but as he looked the sadness which was on her face seemed to pass into his heart , and he cried out : ` This one shall be my wife .
This one and no other . '
-LSB- Illustration : the sadness of her face seemed to pass into his heart . -RSB-
As he said the words the young girl blushed and hung her head , and all the other figures vanished .
The young prince went quickly back to his father , and told him all he had seen and which wife he had chosen .
The old man listened to him full of sorrow , and then he spoke : ` You have done ill , my son , to search out that which was hidden , and you are running to meet a great danger .
This young girl has fallen into the power of a wicked sorcerer , who lives in an iron castle .
Many young men have tried to deliver her , and none have ever come back .
But what is done is done !
You have given your word , and it can not be broken .
Go , dare your fate , and return to me safe and sound . '
So the prince embraced his father , mounted his horse , and set forth to seek his bride .
He rode on gaily for several hours , till he found himself in a wood where he had never been before , and soon lost his way among its winding paths and deep valleys .
He tried in vain to see where he was : the thick trees shut out the sun , and he could not tell which was north and which was south , so that he might know what direction to make for .
He felt in despair , and had quite given up all hope of getting out of this horrible place , when he heard a voice calling to him .
` Hey !
hey !
stop a minute ! '
The prince turned round and saw behind him a very tall man , running as fast as his legs would carry him .
` Wait for me , ' he panted , ` and take me into your service .
If you do , you will never be sorry . '
` Who are you ? '
asked the prince , ` and what can you do ? '
` Long is my name , and I can lengthen my body at will .
Do you see that nest up there on the top of that pine-tree ?
Well , I can get it for you without taking the trouble of climbing the tree , ' and Long stretched himself up and up and up , till he was very soon as tall as the pine itself .
He put the nest in his pocket , and before you could wink your eyelid he had made himself small again , and stood before the prince .
` Yes ; you know your business , ' said he , ` but birds ' nests are no use to me .
I am too old for them .
Now if you were only able to get me out of this wood , you would indeed be good for something . '
` Oh , there 's no difficulty about that , ' replied Long , and he stretched himself up and up and up till he was three times as tall as the tallest tree in the forest .
Then he looked all round and said , ` We must go in this direction in order to get out of the wood , ' and shortening himself again , he took the prince 's horse by the bridle , and led him along .
Very soon they got clear of the forest , and saw before them a wide plain ending in a pile of high rocks , covered here and there with trees , and very much like the fortifications of a town .
As they left the wood behind Long turned to the prince and said , ` My lord , here comes my comrade .
You should take him into your service too , as you will find him a great help . '
` Well , call him then , so that I can see what sort of a man he is . '
` He is a little too far off for that , ' replied Long .
` He would hardly hear my voice , and he could n't be here for some time yet , as he has so much to carry .
I think I had better go and bring him myself , ' and this time he stretched himself to such a height that his head was lost in the clouds .
He made two or three strides , took his friend on his back , and set him down before the prince .
The new-comer was a very fat man , and as round as a barrel .
` Who are you ? '
asked the prince , ` and what can you do ? '
` Your worship , Broad is my name , and I can make myself as wide as I please . '
` Let me see how you manage it . '
` Run , my lord , as fast as you can , and hide yourself in the wood , ' cried Broad , and he began to swell himself out .
-LSB- Illustration : BROAD PUFFS HIMSELF OUT -RSB- The prince did not understand why he should run to the wood , but when he saw Long flying towards it , he thought he had better follow his example .
He was only just in time , for Broad had so suddenly inflated himself that he very nearly knocked over the prince and his horse too .
He covered all the space for acres round .
You would have thought he was a mountain !
At length Broad ceased to expand , drew a deep breath that made the whole forest tremble , and shrank into his usual size .
` You have made me run away , ' said the prince .
` But it is not every day one meets with a man of your sort .
I will take you into my service . '
So the three companions continued their journey , and when they were drawing near the rocks they met a man whose eyes were covered by a bandage .
` Your excellency , ' said Long , ` this is our third comrade .
You will do well to take him into your service , and , I assure you , you will find him worth his salt . '
` Who are you ? '
asked the prince .
` And why are your eyes bandaged ?
You can never see your way ! '
` It is just the contrary , my lord !
It is because I see only too well that I am forced to bandage my eyes .
Even so I see as well as people who have no bandage .
When I take it off my eyes pierce through everything .
Everything I look at catches fire , or , if it can not catch fire , it falls into a thousand pieces .
They call me Quickeye . '
And so saying he took off his bandage and turned towards the rock .
As he fixed his eyes upon it a crack was heard , and in a few moments it was nothing but a heap of sand .
In the sand something might be detected glittering brightly .
Quickeye picked it up and brought it to the prince .
It turned out to be a lump of pure gold .
` You are a wonderful creature , ' said the prince , ` and I should be a fool not to take you into my service .
But since your eyes are so good , tell me if I am very far from the Iron Castle , and what is happening there just now . '
` If you were travelling alone , ' replied Quickeye , ` it would take you at least a year to get to it ; but as we are with you , we shall arrive there to-night .
Just now they are preparing supper . '
` There is a princess in the castle .
Do you see her ? ' '
A wizard keeps her in a high tower , guarded by iron bars . '
` Ah , help me to deliver her ! '
cried the prince .
And they promised they would .
Then they all set out through the grey rocks , by the breach made by the eyes of Quickeye , and passed over great mountains and through deep woods .
And every time they met with any obstacle the three friends contrived somehow to put it aside .
As the sun was setting , the prince beheld the towers of the Iron Castle , and before it sank beneath the horizon he was crossing the iron bridge which led to the gates .
He was only just in time , for no sooner had the sun disappeared altogether , than the bridge drew itself up and the gates shut themselves .
There was no turning back now !
The prince put up his horse in the stable , where everything looked as if a guest was expected , and then the whole party marched straight up to the castle .
In the court , in the stables , and all over the great halls , they saw a number of men richly dressed , but every one turned into stone .
They crossed an endless set of rooms , all opening into each other , till they reached the dining-hall .
It was brilliantly lighted ; the table was covered with wine and fruit , and was laid for four .
They waited a few minutes expecting some one to come , but as nobody did , they sat down and began to eat and drink , for they were very hungry .
When they had done their supper they looked about for some place to sleep .
But suddenly the door burst open , and the wizard entered the hall .
He was old and hump-backed , with a bald head and a grey beard that fell to his knees .
He wore a black robe , and instead of a belt three iron circlets clasped his waist .
He led by the hand a lady of wonderful beauty , dressed in white , with a girdle of silver and a crown of pearls , but her face was pale and sad as death itself .
The prince knew her in an instant , and moved eagerly forward ; but the wizard gave him no time to speak , and said : ' I know why you are here .
Very good ; you may have her if for three nights following you can prevent her making her escape .
If you fail in this , you and your servants will all be turned into stone , like those who have come before you . '
And offering the princess a chair , he left the hall .
The prince could not take his eyes from the princess , she was so lovely !
He began to talk to her , but she neither answered nor smiled , and sat as if she were made of marble .
He seated himself by her , and determined not to close his eyes that night , for fear she should escape him .
And in order that she should be doubly guarded , Long stretched himself like a strap all round the room , Broad took his stand by the door and puffed himself out , so that not even a mouse could slip by , and Quickeye leant against a pillar which stood in the middle of the floor and supported the roof .
But in half a second they were all sound asleep , and they slept sound the whole night long .
In the morning , at the first peep of dawn , the prince awoke with a start .
But the princess was gone .
He aroused his servants and implored them to tell him what he must do .
` Calm yourself , my lord , ' said Quickeye . '
I have found her already .
A hundred miles from here there is a forest .
In the middle of the forest , an old oak , and on the top of the oak , an acorn .
This acorn is the princess .
If Long will take me on his shoulders , we shall soon bring her back . '
And sure enough , in less time than it takes to walk round the cottage , they had returned from the forest , and Long presented the acorn to the prince .
` Now , your excellency , throw it on the ground . '
The prince obeyed , and was enchanted to see the princess appear at his side .
But when the sun peeped for the first time over the mountains , the door burst open as before , and the wizard entered with a loud laugh .
Suddenly he caught sight of the princess ; his face darkened , he uttered a low growl , and one of the iron circlets gave way with a crash .
He seized the young girl by the hand and bore her away with him .
All that day the prince wandered about the castle , studying the curious treasures it contained , but everything looked as if life had suddenly come to a standstill .
In one place he saw a prince who had been turned into stone in the act of brandishing a sword round which his two hands were clasped .
In another , the same doom had fallen upon a knight in the act of running away .
In a third , a serving man was standing eternally trying to convey a piece of beef to his mouth , and all around them were others , still preserving for evermore the attitudes they were in when the wizard had commanded ` From henceforth be turned into marble . '
In the castle , and round the castle , all was dismal and desolate .
Trees there were , but without leaves ; fields there were , but no grass grew on them .
There was one river , but it never flowed and no fish lived in it .
No flowers blossomed , and no birds sang .
Three times during the day food appeared , as if by magic , for the prince and his servants .
And it was not until supper was ended that the wizard appeared , as on the previous evening , and delivered the princess into the care of the prince .
All four determined that this time they would keep awake at any cost .
But it was no use .
Off they went as they had done before , and when the prince awoke the next morning the room was again empty .
With a pang of shame , he rushed to find Quickeye .
` Awake !
Awake !
Quickeye !
Do you know what has become of the princess ? '
Quickeye rubbed his eyes and answered : ` Yes , I see her .
Two hundred miles from here there is a mountain .
In this mountain is a rock .
In the rock , a precious stone .
This stone is the princess .
Long shall take me there , and we will be back before you can turn round . '
So Long took him on his shoulders and they set out .
At every stride they covered twenty miles , and as they drew near Quickeye fixed his burning eyes on the mountain ; in an instant it split into a thousand pieces , and in one of these sparkled the precious stone .
They picked it up and brought it to the prince , who flung it hastily down , and as the stone touched the floor the princess stood before him .
When the wizard came , his eyes shot forth flames of fury .
Cric-crac was heard , and another of his iron bands broke and fell .
He seized the princess by the hand and led her off , growling louder than ever .
All that day things went on exactly as they had done the day before .
After supper the wizard brought back the princess , and looking him straight in the eyes he said , ` We shall see which of us two will gain the prize after all ! '
That night they struggled their very hardest to keep awake , and even walked about instead of sitting down .
But it was quite useless .
One after another they had to give in , and for the third time the princess slipped through their fingers .
When morning came , it was as usual the prince who awoke the first , and as usual , the princess being gone , he rushed to Quickeye .
-LSB- Illustration : THE GUARDIANS CAUGHT NAPPING -RSB- ` Get up , get up , Quickeye , and tell me where is the princess ? '
Quickeye looked about for some time without answering .
` Oh , my lord , she is far , very far .
Three hundred miles away there lies a black sea .
In the middle of this sea there is a little shell , and in the middle of the shell is fixed a gold ring .
That gold ring is the princess .
But do not vex your soul ; we will get her .
Only to-day , Long must take Broad with him .
He will be wanted badly . '
So Long took Quickeye on one shoulder , and Broad on the other , and they set out .
At each stride they left thirty miles behind them .
When they reached the black sea , Quickeye showed them the spot where they must seek the shell .
But though Long stretched down his hand as far as it would go , he could not find the shell , for it lay at the bottom of the sea .
` Wait a moment , comrades , it will be all right .
I will help you , ' said Broad .
Then he swelled himself out so that you would have thought the world could hardly have held him , and stooping down he drank .
He drank so much at every mouthful , that only a minute or so passed before the water had sunk enough for Long to put his hand to the bottom .
He soon found the shell , and pulled the ring out .
But time had been lost , and Long had a double burden to carry .
The dawn was breaking fast before they got back to the castle , where the prince was waiting for them in an agony of fear .
Soon the first rays of the sun were seen peeping over the tops of the mountains .
The door burst open , and finding the prince standing alone the wizard broke into peals of wicked laughter .
But as he laughed a loud crash was heard , the window fell into a thousand pieces , a gold ring glittered in the air , and the princess stood before the enchanter .
For Quickeye , who was watching from afar , had told Long of the terrible danger now threatening the prince , and Long , summoning all his strength for one gigantic effort , had thrown the ring right through the window .
The wizard shrieked and howled with rage , till the whole castle trembled to its foundations .
Then a crash was heard , the third band split in two , and a crow flew out of the window .
Then the princess at length broke the enchanted silence , and blushing like a rose , gave the prince her thanks for her unlooked-for deliverance .
But it was not only the princess who was restored to life by the flight of the wicked black crow .
The marble figures became men once more , and took up their occupations just as they had left them off .
The horses neighed in the stables , the flowers blossomed in the garden , the birds flew in the air , the fish darted in the water .
Everywhere you looked , all was life , all was joy !
And the knights who had been turned into stone came in a body to offer their homage to the prince who had set them free .
` Do not thank me , ' he said , ` for I have done nothing .
Without my faithful servants , Long , Broad , and Quickeye , I should even have been as one of you . '
With these words he bade them farewell , and departed with the princess and his faithful companions for the kingdom of his father .
The old king , who had long since given up all hope , wept for joy at the sight of his son , and insisted that the wedding should take place as soon as possible .
All the knights who had been enchanted in the Iron Castle were invited to the ceremony , and after it had taken place , Long , Broad , and Quickeye took leave of the young couple , saying that they were going to look for more work .
The prince offered them all their hearts could desire if they would only remain with him , but they replied that an idle life would not please them , and that they could never be happy unless they were busy , so they went away to seek their fortunes , and for all I know are seeking still .
-LSB- Contes populaires .
Traduits par Louis Léger .
Paris : Leroux , éditeur . -RSB-
PRUNELLA There was once upon a time a woman who had an only daughter .
When the child was about seven years old she used to pass every day , on her way to school , an orchard where there was a wild plum tree , with delicious ripe plums hanging from the branches .
Each morning the child would pick one , and put it into her pocket to eat at school .
For this reason she was called Prunella .
Now , the orchard belonged to a witch .
One day the witch noticed the child gathering a plum , as she passed along the road .
Prunella did it quite innocently , not knowing that she was doing wrong in taking the fruit that hung close to the roadside .
But the witch was furious , and next day hid herself behind the hedge , and when Prunella came past , and put out her hand to pluck the fruit , she jumped out and seized her by the arm .
` Ah !
you little thief ! '
she exclaimed . '
I have caught you at last .
Now you will have to pay for your misdeeds . '
The poor child , half dead with fright , implored the old woman to forgive her , assuring her that she did not know she had done wrong , and promising never to do it again .
But the witch had no pity , and she dragged Prunella into her house , where she kept her till the time should come when she could have her revenge .
As the years passed Prunella grew up into a very beautiful girl .
Now her beauty and goodness , instead of softening the witch 's heart , aroused her hatred and jealousy .
One day she called Prunella to her , and said : ` Take this basket , go to the well , and bring it back to me filled with water .
If you do n't I will kill you . '
The girl took the basket , went and let it down into the well again and again .
But her work was lost labour .
Each time , as she drew up the basket , the water streamed out of it .
At last , in despair , she gave it up , and leaning against the well she began to cry bitterly , when suddenly she heard a voice at her side saying ` Prunella , why are you crying ? '
Turning round she beheld a handsome youth , who looked kindly at her , as if he were sorry for her trouble .
` Who are you , ' she asked , ` and how do you know my name ? ' '
I am the son of the witch , ' he replied , ` and my name is Bensiabel .
I know that she is determined that you shall die , but I promise you that she shall not carry out her wicked plan .
Will you give me a kiss , if I fill your basket ? '
` No , ' said Prunella , ' I will not give you a kiss , because you are the son of a witch . '
` Very well , ' replied the youth sadly .
` Give me your basket and I will fill it for you . '
And he dipped it into the well , and the water stayed in it .
Then the girl returned to the house , carrying the basket filled with water .
When the witch saw it , she became white with rage , and exclaimed ` Bensiabel must have helped you . '
And Prunella looked down , and said nothing .
` Well , we shall see who will win in the end , ' said the witch , in a great rage .
The following day she called the girl to her and said : ` Take this sack of wheat .
I am going out for a little ; by the time I return I shall expect you to have made it into bread .
If you have not done it I will kill you . '
Having said this she left the room , closing and locking the door behind her .
Poor Prunella did not know what to do .
It was impossible for her to grind the wheat , prepare the dough , and bake the bread , all in the short time that the witch would be away .
At first she set to work bravely , but when she saw how hopeless her task was , she threw herself on a chair , and began to weep bitterly .
She was roused from her despair by hearing Bensiabel 's voice at her side saying : ` Prunella , Prunella , do not weep like that .
If you will give me a kiss I will make the bread , and you will be saved . ' '
I will not kiss the son of a witch , ' replied Prunella .
But Bensiabel took the wheat from her , and ground it , and made the dough , and when the witch returned the bread was ready baked in the oven .
Turning to the girl , with fury in her voice , she said : ` Bensiabel must have been here and helped you ; ' and Prunella looked down , and said nothing .
` We shall see who will win in the end , ' said the witch , and her eyes blazed with anger .
Next day she called the girl to her and said : ` Go to my sister , who lives across the mountains .
She will give you a casket , which you must bring back to me . '
This she said knowing that her sister , who was a still more cruel and wicked witch than herself , would never allow the girl to return , but would imprison her and starve her to death .
But Prunella did not suspect anything , and set out quite cheerfully .
On the way she met Bensiabel .
` Where are you going , Prunella ? '
he asked . '
I am going to the sister of my mistress , from whom I am to fetch a casket . '
` Oh poor , poor girl ! '
said Bensiabel .
` You are being sent straight to your death .
Give me a kiss , and I will save you . '
But again Prunella answered as before , ' I will not kiss the son of a witch . '
` Nevertheless , I will save your life , ' said Bensiabel , ` for I love you better than myself .
Take this flagon of oil , this loaf of bread , this piece of rope , and this broom .
When you reach the witch 's house , oil the hinges of the door with the contents of the flagon , and throw the loaf of bread to the great fierce mastiff , who will come to meet you .
When you have passed the dog , you will see in the courtyard a miserable woman trying in vain to let down a bucket into the well with her plaited hair .
You must give her the rope .
In the kitchen you will find a still more miserable woman trying to clean the hearth with her tongue ; to her you must give the broom .
You will see the casket on the top of a cupboard , take it as quickly as you can , and leave the house without a moment 's delay .
If you do all this exactly as I have told you , you will not be killed . '
So Prunella , having listened carefully to his instructions , did just what he had told her .
She reached the house , oiled the hinges of the door , threw the loaf to the dog , gave the poor woman at the well the rope , and the woman in the kitchen the broom , caught up the casket from the top of the cupboard , and fled with it out of the house .
But the witch heard her as she ran away , and rushing to the window called out to the woman in the kitchen : ` Kill that thief , I tell you ! '
But the woman replied : ' I will not kill her , for she has given me a broom , whereas you forced me to clean the hearth with my tongue . '
Then the witch called out in fury to the woman at the well ; ` Take the girl , I tell you , and fling her into the water , and drown her ! '
But the woman answered ; ` No , I will not drown her , for she gave me this rope , whereas you forced me to use my hair to let down the bucket to draw water . '
Then the witch shouted to the dog to seize the girl and hold her fast ; but the dog answered ; ` No , I will not seize her , for she gave me a loaf of bread , whereas you let me starve with hunger . '
The witch was so angry that she nearly choked , as she called out ; ` Door , bang upon her , and keep her a prisoner . '
But the door answered ; ' I wo n't , for she has oiled my hinges , so that they move quite easily , whereas you left them all rough and rusty . '
And so Prunella escaped , and , with the casket under her arm , reached the house of her mistress who , as you may believe , was as angry as she was surprised to see the girl standing before her , looking more beautiful than ever .
Her eyes flashed , as in furious tones she asked her , ` Did you meet Bensiabel ? '
But Prunella looked down , and said nothing .
` We shall see , ' said the witch , ` who will win in the end .
Listen , there are three cocks in the hen-house ; one is yellow , one black , and the third is white .
If one of them crows during the night you must tell me which one it is .
Woe to you if you make a mistake .
I will gobble you up in one mouthful . '
Now Bensiabel was in the room next to the one where Prunella slept .
At midnight she awoke hearing a cock crow .
` Which one was that ? '
shouted the witch .
Then , trembling , Prunella knocked on the wall and whispered : ` Bensiabel , Bensiabel , tell me , which cock crowed ? '
` Will you give me a kiss if I tell you ? '
he whispered back through the wall .
But she answered ` No . '
Then he whispered back to her ; ` Nevertheless , I will tell you .
It was the yellow cock that crowed . '
The witch , who had noticed the delay in Prunella 's answer , approached her door calling angrily : ` Answer at once , or I will kill you . '
So Prunella answered : ` It was the yellow cock that crowed . '
And the witch stamped her foot and gnashed her teeth .
Soon after another cock crowed .
` Tell me now which one it is , ' called the witch .
And , prompted by Bensiabel , Prunella answered : ` That is the black cock . '
A few minutes after the crowing was heard again , and the voice of the witch demanding ` Which one was that ? '
And again Prunella implored Bensiabel to help her .
But this time he hesitated , for he hoped that Prunella might forget that he was a witch 's son , and promise to give him a kiss .
And as he hesitated he heard an agonised cry from the girl : ` Bensiabel , Bensiabel , save me !
The witch is coming , she is close to me , I hear the gnashing of her teeth ! '
With a bound Bensiabel opened his door and flung himself against the witch .
He pulled her back with such force that she stumbled , and falling headlong , dropped down dead at the foot of the stairs .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Lucy_Maud_Montgomery___The_Golden_Road.txt.out
CHAPTER I .
A NEW DEPARTURE `` I 've thought of something amusing for the winter , '' I said as we drew into a half-circle around the glorious wood-fire in Uncle Alec 's kitchen .
It had been a day of wild November wind , closing down into a wet , eerie twilight .
Outside , the wind was shrilling at the windows and around the eaves , and the rain was playing on the roof .
The old willow at the gate was writhing in the storm and the orchard was a place of weird music , born of all the tears and fears that haunt the halls of night .
But little we cared for the gloom and the loneliness of the outside world ; we kept them at bay with the light of the fire and the laughter of our young lips .
We had been having a splendid game of Blind-Man 's Buff .
That is , it had been splendid at first ; but later the fun went out of it because we found that Peter was , of malice prepense , allowing himself to be caught too easily , in order that he might have the pleasure of catching Felicity -- which he never failed to do , no matter how tightly his eyes were bound .
What remarkable goose said that love is blind ?
Love can see through five folds of closely-woven muffler with ease !
`` I 'm getting tired , '' said Cecily , whose breath was coming rather quickly and whose pale cheeks had bloomed into scarlet .
`` Let 's sit down and get the Story Girl to tell us a story . ''
But as we dropped into our places the Story Girl shot a significant glance at me which intimated that this was the psychological moment for introducing the scheme she and I had been secretly developing for some days .
It was really the Story Girl 's idea and none of mine .
But she had insisted that I should make the suggestion as coming wholly from myself .
`` If you do n't , Felicity wo n't agree to it .
You know yourself , Bev , how contrary she 's been lately over anything I mention .
And if she goes against it Peter will too -- the ninny !
-- and it would n't be any fun if we were n't all in it . ''
`` What is it ? ''
asked Felicity , drawing her chair slightly away from Peter 's .
`` It is this .
Let us get up a newspaper of our own -- write it all ourselves , and have all we do in it .
Do n't you think we can get a lot of fun out of it ? ''
Everyone looked rather blank and amazed , except the Story Girl .
She knew what she had to do , and she did it .
`` What a silly idea ! ''
she exclaimed , with a contemptuous toss of her long brown curls .
`` Just as if WE could get up a newspaper ! ''
Felicity fired up , exactly as we had hoped .
`` I think it 's a splendid idea , '' she said enthusiastically .
`` I 'd like to know why we could n't get up as good a newspaper as they have in town !
Uncle Roger says the Daily Enterprise has gone to the dogs -- all the news it prints is that some old woman has put a shawl on her head and gone across the road to have tea with another old woman .
I guess we could do better than that .
You need n't think , Sara Stanley , that nobody but you can do anything . ''
`` I think it would be great fun , '' said Peter decidedly .
`` My Aunt Jane helped edit a paper when she was at Queen 's Academy , and she said it was very amusing and helped her a great deal . ''
The Story Girl could hide her delight only by dropping her eyes and frowning .
`` Bev wants to be editor , '' she said , `` and I do n't see how he can , with no experience .
Anyhow , it would be a lot of trouble . ''
`` Some people are so afraid of a little bother , '' retorted Felicity .
`` I think it would be nice , '' said Cecily timidly , `` and none of us have any experience of being editors , any more than Bev , so that would n't matter . ''
`` Will it be printed ? ''
asked Dan .
`` Oh , no , '' I said .
`` We ca n't have it printed .
We 'll just have to write it out -- we can buy foolscap from the teacher . ''
`` I do n't think it will be much of a newspaper if it is n't printed , '' said Dan scornfully .
`` It does n't matter very much what YOU think , '' said Felicity .
`` Thank you , '' retorted Dan .
`` Of course , '' said the Story Girl hastily , not wishing to have Dan turned against our project , `` if all the rest of you want it I 'll go in for it too .
I daresay it would be real good fun , now that I come to think of it .
And we 'll keep the copies , and when we become famous they 'll be quite valuable . ''
`` I wonder if any of us ever will be famous , '' said Felix .
`` The Story Girl will be , '' I said .
`` I do n't see how she can be , '' said Felicity skeptically .
`` Why , she 's just one of us . ''
`` Well , it 's decided , then , that we 're to have a newspaper , '' I resumed briskly .
`` The next thing is to choose a name for it .
That 's a very important thing . ''
`` How often are you going to publish it ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Once a month . ''
`` I thought newspapers came out every day , or every week at least , '' said Dan .
`` We could n't have one every week , '' I explained .
`` It would be too much work . ''
`` Well , that 's an argument , '' admitted Dan .
`` The less work you can get along with the better , in my opinion .
No , Felicity , you need n't say it .
I know exactly what you want to say , so save your breath to cool your porridge .
I agree with you that I never work if I can find anything else to do . '' ''
` Remember it is harder still To have no work to do , '' ' quoted Cecily reprovingly .
`` I do n't believe THAT , '' rejoined Dan .
`` I 'm like the Irishman who said he wished the man who begun work had stayed and finished it . ''
`` Well , is it decided that Bev is to be editor ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Of course it is , '' Felicity answered for everybody .
`` Then , '' said Felix , `` I move that the name be The King Monthly Magazine . ''
`` That sounds fine , '' said Peter , hitching his chair a little nearer Felicity 's .
`` But , '' said Cecily timidly , `` that will leave out Peter and the Story Girl and Sara Ray , just as if they did n't have a share in it .
I do n't think that would be fair . ''
`` You name it then , Cecily , '' I suggested .
`` Oh ! ''
Cecily threw a deprecating glance at the Story Girl and Felicity .
Then , meeting the contempt in the latter 's gaze , she raised her head with unusual spirit .
`` I think it would be nice just to call it Our Magazine , '' she said .
`` Then we 'd all feel as if we had a share in it . ''
`` Our Magazine it will be , then , '' I said .
`` And as for having a share in it , you bet we 'll all have a share in it .
If I 'm to be editor you 'll all have to be sub-editors , and have charge of a department . ''
`` Oh , I could n't , '' protested Cecily .
`` You must , '' I said inexorably . ''
` England expects everyone to do his duty . '
That 's our motto -- only we 'll put Prince Edward Island in place of England .
There must be no shirking .
Now , what departments will we have ?
We must make it as much like a real newspaper as we can . ''
`` Well , we ought to have an etiquette department , then , '' said Felicity .
`` The Family Guide has one . ''
`` Of course we 'll have one , '' I said , `` and Dan will edit it . ''
`` Dan ! ''
exclaimed Felicity , who had fondly expected to be asked to edit it herself .
`` I can run an etiquette column as well as that idiot in the Family Guide , anyhow , '' said Dan defiantly .
`` But you ca n't have an etiquette department unless questions are asked .
What am I to do if nobody asks any ? ''
`` You must make some up , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Uncle Roger says that is what the Family Guide man does .
He says it is impossible that there can be as many hopeless fools in the world as that column would stand for otherwise . ''
`` We want you to edit the household department , Felicity , '' I said , seeing a cloud lowering on that fair lady 's brow .
`` Nobody can do that as well as you .
Felix will edit the jokes and the Information Bureau , and Cecily must be fashion editor .
Yes , you must , Sis .
It 's easy as wink .
And the Story Girl will attend to the personals .
They 're very important .
Anyone can contribute a personal , but the Story Girl is to see there are some in every issue , even if she has to make them up , like Dan with the etiquette . ''
`` Bev will run the scrap book department , besides the editorials , '' said the Story Girl , seeing that I was too modest to say it myself .
`` Are n't you going to have a story page ? ''
asked Peter .
`` We will , if you 'll be fiction and poetry editor , '' I said .
Peter , in his secret soul , was dismayed , but he would not blanch before Felicity .
`` All right , '' he said , recklessly .
`` We can put anything we like in the scrap book department , '' I explained , `` but all the other contributions must be original , and all must have the name of the writer signed to them , except the personals .
We must all do our best .
Our Magazine is to be ' a feast of reason and flow of soul . '' '
I felt that I had worked in two quotations with striking effect .
The others , with the exception of the Story Girl , looked suitably impressed .
`` But , '' said Cecily , reproachfully , `` have n't you anything for Sara Ray to do ?
She 'll feel awful bad if she is left out . ''
I had forgotten Sara Ray .
Nobody , except Cecily , ever did remember Sara Ray unless she was on the spot .
But we decided to put her in as advertising manager .
That sounded well and really meant very little .
`` Well , we 'll go ahead then , '' I said , with a sigh of relief that the project had been so easily launched .
`` We 'll get the first issue out about the first of January .
And whatever else we do we must n't let Uncle Roger get hold of it .
He 'd make such fearful fun of it . ''
`` I hope we can make a success of it , '' said Peter moodily .
He had been moody ever since he was entrapped into being fiction editor .
`` It will be a success if we are determined to succeed , '' I said . ''
` Where there is a will there is always a way . ' ''
`` That 's just what Ursula Townley said when her father locked her in her room the night she was going to run away with Kenneth MacNair , '' said the Story Girl .
We pricked up our ears , scenting a story .
`` Who were Ursula Townley and Kenneth MacNair ? ''
I asked .
`` Kenneth MacNair was a first cousin of the Awkward Man 's grandfather , and Ursula Townley was the belle of the Island in her day .
Who do you suppose told me the story -- no , read it to me , out of his brown book ? ''
`` Never the Awkward Man himself ! ''
I exclaimed incredulously .
`` Yes , he did , '' said the Story Girl triumphantly .
`` I met him one day last week back in the maple woods when I was looking for ferns .
He was sitting by the spring , writing in his brown book .
He hid it when he saw me and looked real silly ; but after I had talked to him awhile I just asked him about it , and told him that the gossips said he wrote poetry in it , and if he did would he tell me , because I was dying to know .
He said he wrote a little of everything in it ; and then I begged him to read me something out of it , and he read me the story of Ursula and Kenneth . ''
`` I do n't see how you ever had the face , '' said Felicity ; and even Cecily looked as if she thought the Story Girl had gone rather far .
`` Never mind that , '' cried Felix , `` but tell us the story .
That 's the main thing . ''
`` I 'll tell it just as the Awkward Man read it , as far as I can , '' said the Story Girl , `` but I ca n't put all his nice poetical touches in , because I ca n't remember them all , though he read it over twice for me . ''
CHAPTER II .
A WILL , A WAY AND A WOMAN `` One day , over a hundred years ago , Ursula Townley was waiting for Kenneth MacNair in a great beechwood , where brown nuts were falling and an October wind was making the leaves dance on the ground like pixy-people . ''
`` What are pixy-people ? ''
demanded Peter , forgetting the Story Girl 's dislike of interruptions .
`` Hush , '' whispered Cecily .
`` That is only one of the Awkward Man 's poetical touches , I guess . ''
`` There were cultivated fields between the grove and the dark blue gulf ; but far behind and on each side were woods , for Prince Edward Island a hundred years ago was not what it is today .
The settlements were few and scattered , and the population so scanty that old Hugh Townley boasted that he knew every man , woman and child in it .
`` Old Hugh was quite a noted man in his day .
He was noted for several things -- he was rich , he was hospitable , he was proud , he was masterful -- and he had for daughter the handsomest young woman in Prince Edward Island .
`` Of course , the young men were not blind to her good looks , and she had so many lovers that all the other girls hated her -- '' `` You bet ! ''
said Dan , aside -- `` But the only one who found favour in her eyes was the very last man she should have pitched her fancy on , at least if old Hugh were the judge .
Kenneth MacNair was a dark-eyed young sea-captain of the next settlement , and it was to meet him that Ursula stole to the beechwood on that autumn day of crisp wind and ripe sunshine .
Old Hugh had forbidden his house to the young man , making such a scene of fury about it that even Ursula 's high spirit quailed .
Old Hugh had really nothing against Kenneth himself ; but years before either Kenneth or Ursula was born , Kenneth 's father had beaten Hugh Townley in a hotly contested election .
Political feeling ran high in those days , and old Hugh had never forgiven the MacNair his victory .
The feud between the families dated from that tempest in the provincial teapot , and the surplus of votes on the wrong side was the reason why , thirty years after , Ursula had to meet her lover by stealth if she met him at all . ''
`` Was the MacNair a Conservative or a Grit ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` It does n't make any difference what he was , '' said the Story Girl impatiently .
`` Even a Tory would be romantic a hundred years ago .
Well , Ursula could n't see Kenneth very often , for Kenneth lived fifteen miles away and was often absent from home in his vessel .
On this particular day it was nearly three months since they had met .
`` The Sunday before , young Sandy MacNair had been in Carlyle church .
He had risen at dawn that morning , walked bare-footed for eight miles along the shore , carrying his shoes , hired a harbour fisherman to row him over the channel , and then walked eight miles more to the church at Carlyle , less , it is to be feared , from a zeal for holy things than that he might do an errand for his adored brother , Kenneth .
He carried a letter which he contrived to pass into Ursula 's hand in the crowd as the people came out .
This letter asked Ursula to meet Kenneth in the beechwood the next afternoon , and so she stole away there when suspicious father and watchful stepmother thought she was spinning in the granary loft . ''
`` It was very wrong of her to deceive her parents , '' said Felicity primly .
The Story Girl could n't deny this , so she evaded the ethical side of the question skilfully .
`` I am not telling you what Ursula Townley ought to have done , '' she said loftily .
`` I am only telling you what she DID do .
If you do n't want to hear it you need n't listen , of course .
There would n't be many stories to tell if nobody ever did anything she should n't do .
`` Well , when Kenneth came , the meeting was just what might have been expected between two lovers who had taken their last kiss three months before .
So it was a good half-hour before Ursula said , '' ` Oh , Kenneth , I can not stay long -- I shall be missed .
You said in your letter that you had something important to talk of .
What is it ? ' ''
` My news is this , Ursula .
Next Saturday morning my vessel , The Fair Lady , with her captain on board , sails at dawn from Charlottetown harbour , bound for Buenos Ayres .
At this season this means a safe and sure return -- next May . ' ''
` Kenneth ! '
cried Ursula .
She turned pale and burst into tears .
` How can you think of leaving me ?
Oh , you are cruel ! ' ''
` Why , no , sweetheart , ' laughed Kenneth .
` The captain of The Fair Lady will take his bride with him .
We 'll spend our honeymoon on the high seas , Ursula , and the cold Canadian winter under southern palms . ' ''
` You want me to run away with you , Kenneth ? '
exclaimed Ursula . ''
` Indeed , dear girl , there 's nothing else to do ! ' ''
` Oh , I can not ! '
she protested .
` My father would -- ' '' ` We 'll not consult him -- until afterward .
Come , Ursula , you know there 's no other way .
We 've always known it must come to this .
YOUR father will never forgive me for MY father .
You wo n't fail me now .
Think of the long parting if you send me away alone on such a voyage .
Pluck up your courage , and we 'll let Townleys and MacNairs whistle their mouldy feuds down the wind while we sail southward in The Fair Lady .
I have a plan . ' ''
` Let me hear it , ' said Ursula , beginning to get back her breath . ''
` There is to be a dance at The Springs Friday night .
Are you invited , Ursula ? ' ''
` Yes . ' ''
` Good .
I am not -- but I shall be there -- in the fir grove behind the house , with two horses .
When the dancing is at its height you 'll steal out to meet me .
Then 't is but a fifteen mile ride to Charlottetown , where a good minister , who is a friend of mine , will be ready to marry us .
By the time the dancers have tired their heels you and I will be on our vessel , able to snap our fingers at fate . ' ''
` And what if I do not meet you in the fir grove ? '
said Ursula , a little impertinently . ''
` If you do not , I 'll sail for South America the next morning , and many a long year will pass ere Kenneth MacNair comes home again . '
`` Perhaps Kenneth did n't mean that , but Ursula thought he did , and it decided her .
She agreed to run away with him .
Yes , of course that was wrong , too , Felicity .
She ought to have said , ` No , I shall be married respectably from home , and have a wedding and a silk dress and bridesmaids and lots of presents . '
But she did n't .
She was n't as prudent as Felicity King would have been . ''
`` She was a shameless hussy , '' said Felicity , venting on the long-dead Ursula that anger she dare not visit on the Story Girl .
`` Oh , no , Felicity dear , she was just a lass of spirit .
I 'd have done the same .
And when Friday night came she began to dress for the dance with a brave heart .
She was to go to The Springs with her uncle and aunt , who were coming on horseback that afternoon , and would then go on to The Springs in old Hugh 's carriage , which was the only one in Carlyle then .
They were to leave in time to reach The Springs before nightfall , for the October nights were dark and the wooded roads rough for travelling .
`` When Ursula was ready she looked at herself in the glass with a good deal of satisfaction .
Yes , Felicity , she was a vain baggage , that same Ursula , but that kind did n't all die out a hundred years ago .
And she had good reason for being vain .
She wore the sea-green silk which had been brought out from England a year before and worn but once -- at the Christmas ball at Government House .
A fine , stiff , rustling silk it was , and over it shone Ursula 's crimson cheeks and gleaming eyes , and masses of nut brown hair .
`` As she turned from the glass she heard her father 's voice below , loud and angry .
Growing very pale , she ran out into the hall .
Her father was already half way upstairs , his face red with fury .
In the hall below Ursula saw her step-mother , looking troubled and vexed .
At the door stood Malcolm Ramsay , a homely neighbour youth who had been courting Ursula in his clumsy way ever since she grew up .
Ursula had always hated him . ''
` Ursula ! '
shouted old Hugh , ` come here and tell this scoundrel he lies .
He says that you met Kenneth MacNair in the beechgrove last Tuesday .
Tell him he lies !
Tell him he lies ! '
`` Ursula was no coward .
She looked scornfully at poor Ramsay . ''
` The creature is a spy and a tale-bearer , ' she said , ` but in this he does not lie .
I DID meet Kenneth MacNair last Tuesday . ' ''
` And you dare to tell me this to my face ! '
roared old Hugh .
` Back to your room , girl !
Back to your room and stay there !
Take off that finery .
You go to no more dances .
You shall stay in that room until I choose to let you out .
No , not a word !
I 'll put you there if you do n't go .
In with you -- ay , and take your knitting with you .
Occupy yourself with that this evening instead of kicking your heels at The Springs ! '
`` He snatched a roll of gray stocking from the hall table and flung it into Ursula 's room .
Ursula knew she would have to follow it , or be picked up and carried in like a naughty child .
So she gave the miserable Ramsay a look that made him cringe , and swept into her room with her head in the air .
The next moment she heard the door locked behind her .
Her first proceeding was to have a cry of anger and shame and disappointment .
That did no good , and then she took to marching up and down her room .
It did not calm her to hear the rumble of the carriage out of the gate as her uncle and aunt departed . ''
` Oh , what 's to be done ? '
she sobbed .
` Kenneth will be furious .
He will think I have failed him and he will go away hot with anger against me .
If I could only send a word of explanation I know he would not leave me .
But there seems to be no way at all -- though I have heard that there 's always a way when there 's a will .
Oh , I shall go mad !
If the window were not so high I would jump out of it .
But to break my legs or my neck would not mend the matter . '
`` The afternoon passed on .
At sunset Ursula heard hoof-beats and ran to the window .
Andrew Kinnear of The Springs was tying his horse at the door .
He was a dashing young fellow , and a political crony of old Hugh .
No doubt he would be at the dance that night .
Oh , if she could get speech for but a moment with him !
`` When he had gone into the house , Ursula , turning impatiently from the window , tripped and almost fell over the big ball of homespun yarn her father had flung on the floor .
For a moment she gazed at it resentfully -- then , with a gay little laugh , she pounced on it .
The next moment she was at her table , writing a brief note to Kenneth MacNair .
When it was written , Ursula unwound the gray ball to a considerable depth , pinned the note on it , and rewound the yarn over it .
A gray ball , the color of the twilight , might escape observation , where a white missive fluttering down from an upper window would surely be seen by someone .
Then she softly opened her window and waited .
`` It was dusk when Andrew went away .
Fortunately old Hugh did not come to the door with him .
As Andrew untied his horse Ursula threw the ball with such good aim that it struck him , as she had meant it to do , squarely on the head .
Andrew looked up at her window .
She leaned out , put her finger warningly on her lips , pointed to the ball , and nodded .
Andrew , looking somewhat puzzled , picked up the ball , sprang to his saddle , and galloped off .
`` So far , well , thought Ursula .
But would Andrew understand ?
Would he have wit enough to think of exploring the big , knobby ball for its delicate secret ?
And would he be at the dance after all ?
`` The evening dragged by .
Time had never seemed so long to Ursula .
She could not rest or sleep .
It was midnight before she heard the patter of a handful of gravel on her window-panes .
In a trice she was leaning out .
Below in the darkness stood Kenneth MacNair . ''
` Oh , Kenneth , did you get my letter ?
And is it safe for you to be here ? ' ''
` Safe enough .
Your father is in bed .
I 've waited two hours down the road for his light to go out , and an extra half-hour to put him to sleep .
The horses are there .
Slip down and out , Ursula .
We 'll make Charlottetown by dawn yet . ' ''
` That 's easier said than done , lad .
I 'm locked in .
But do you go out behind the new barn and bring the ladder you will find there . '
`` Five minutes later , Miss Ursula , hooded and cloaked , scrambled soundlessly down the ladder , and in five more minutes she and Kenneth were riding along the road . ''
` There 's a stiff gallop before us , Ursula , ' said Kenneth . '' '
I would ride to the world 's end with you , Kenneth MacNair , ' said Ursula .
Oh , of course she should n't have said anything of the sort , Felicity .
But you see people had no etiquette departments in those days .
And when the red sunlight of a fair October dawn was shining over the gray sea The Fair Lady sailed out of Charlottetown harbour .
On her deck stood Kenneth and Ursula MacNair , and in her hand , as a most precious treasure , the bride carried a ball of gray homespun yarn . ''
`` Well , '' said Dan , yawning , `` I like that kind of a story .
Nobody goes and dies in it , that 's one good thing . ''
`` Did old Hugh forgive Ursula ? ''
I asked .
`` The story stopped there in the brown book , '' said the Story Girl , `` but the Awkward Man says he did , after awhile . ''
`` It must be rather romantic to be run away with , '' remarked Cecily , wistfully .
`` Do n't you get such silly notions in your head , Cecily King , '' said Felicity , severely .
CHAPTER III .
THE CHRISTMAS HARP Great was the excitement in the houses of King as Christmas drew nigh .
The air was simply charged with secrets .
Everybody was very penurious for weeks beforehand and hoards were counted scrutinizingly every day .
Mysterious pieces of handiwork were smuggled in and out of sight , and whispered consultations were held , about which nobody thought of being jealous , as might have happened at any other time .
Felicity was in her element , for she and her mother were deep in preparations for the day .
Cecily and the Story Girl were excluded from these doings with indifference on Aunt Janet 's part and what seemed ostentatious complacency on Felicity 's .
Cecily took this to heart and complained to me about it .
`` I 'm one of this family just as much as Felicity is , '' she said , with as much indignation as Cecily could feel , `` and I do n't think she need shut me out of everything .
When I wanted to stone the raisins for the mince-meat she said , no , she would do it herself , because Christmas mince-meat was very particular -- as if I could n't stone raisins right !
The airs Felicity puts on about her cooking just make me sick , '' concluded Cecily wrathfully .
`` It 's a pity she does n't make a mistake in cooking once in a while herself , '' I said .
`` Then maybe she would n't think she knew so much more than other people . ''
All parcels that came in the mail from distant friends were taken charge of by Aunts Janet and Olivia , not to be opened until the great day of the feast itself .
How slowly the last week passed !
But even watched pots will boil in the fulness of time , and finally Christmas day came , gray and dour and frost-bitten without , but full of revelry and rose-red mirth within .
Uncle Roger and Aunt Olivia and the Story Girl came over early for the day ; and Peter came too , with his shining , morning face , to be hailed with joy , for we had been afraid that Peter would not be able to spend Christmas with us .
His mother had wanted him home with her .
`` Of course I ought to go , '' Peter had told me mournfully , `` but we wo n't have turkey for dinner , because ma ca n't afford it .
And ma always cries on holidays because she says they make her think of father .
Of course she ca n't help it , but it ai n't cheerful .
Aunt Jane would n't have cried .
Aunt Jane used to say she never saw the man who was worth spoiling her eyes for .
But I guess I 'll have to spend Christmas at home . ''
At the last moment , however , a cousin of Mrs. Craig 's in Charlottetown invited her for Christmas , and Peter , being given his choice of going or staying , joyfully elected to stay .
So we were all together , except Sara Ray , who had been invited but whose mother would n't let her come .
`` Sara Ray 's mother is a nuisance , '' snapped the Story Girl .
`` She just lives to make that poor child miserable , and she wo n't let her go to the party tonight , either . ''
`` It is just breaking Sara 's heart that she ca n't , '' said Cecily compassionately .
`` I 'm almost afraid I wo n't enjoy myself for thinking of her , home there alone , most likely reading the Bible , while we 're at the party . ''
`` She might be worse occupied than reading the Bible , '' said Felicity rebukingly .
`` But Mrs. Ray makes her read it as a punishment , '' protested Cecily .
`` Whenever Sara cries to go anywhere -- and of course she 'll cry tonight -- Mrs. Ray makes her read seven chapters in the Bible .
I would n't think that would make her very fond of it .
And I 'll not be able to talk the party over with Sara afterwards -- and that 's half the fun gone . ''
`` You can tell her all about it , '' comforted Felix .
`` Telling is n't a bit like talking it over , '' retorted Cecily .
`` It 's too one-sided . ''
We had an exciting time opening our presents .
Some of us had more than others , but we all received enough to make us feel comfortably that we were not unduly neglected in the matter .
The contents of the box which the Story Girl 's father had sent her from Paris made our eyes stick out .
It was full of beautiful things , among them another red silk dress -- not the bright , flame-hued tint of her old one , but a rich , dark crimson , with the most distracting flounces and bows and ruffles ; and with it were little red satin slippers with gold buckles , and heels that made Aunt Janet hold up her hands in horror .
Felicity remarked scornfully that she would have thought the Story Girl would get tired wearing red so much , and even Cecily commented apart to me that she thought when you got so many things all at once you did n't appreciate them as much as when you only got a few .
`` I 'd never get tired of red , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I just love it -- it 's so rich and glowing .
When I 'm dressed in red I always feel ever so much cleverer than in any other colour .
Thoughts just crowd into my brain one after the other .
Oh , you darling dress -- you dear , sheeny , red-rosy , glistening , silky thing ! ''
She flung it over her shoulder and danced around the kitchen .
`` Do n't be silly , Sara , '' said Aunt Janet , a little stimy .
She was a good soul , that Aunt Janet , and had a kind , loving heart in her ample bosom .
But I fancy there were times when she thought it rather hard that the daughter of a roving adventurer -- as she considered him -- like Blair Stanley should disport herself in silk dresses , while her own daughters must go clad in gingham and muslin -- for those were the days when a feminine creature got one silk dress in her lifetime , and seldom more than one .
The Story Girl also got a present from the Awkward Man -- a little , shabby , worn volume with a great many marks on the leaves .
`` Why , it is n't new -- it 's an old book ! ''
exclaimed Felicity .
`` I did n't think the Awkward Man was mean , whatever else he was . ''
`` Oh , you do n't understand , Felicity , '' said the Story Girl patiently .
`` And I do n't suppose I can make you understand .
But I 'll try .
I 'd ten times rather have this than a new book .
It 's one of his own , do n't you see -- one that he has read a hundred times and loved and made a friend of .
A new book , just out of a shop , would n't be the same thing at all .
It would n't MEAN anything .
I consider it a great compliment that he has given me this book .
I 'm prouder of it than of anything else I 've got . ''
`` Well , you 're welcome to it , '' said Felicity .
`` I do n't understand and I do n't want to .
I would n't give anybody a Christmas present that was n't new , and I would n't thank anybody who gave me one . ''
Peter was in the seventh heaven because Felicity had given him a present -- and , moreover , one that she had made herself .
It was a bookmark of perforated cardboard , with a gorgeous red and yellow worsted goblet worked on it , and below , in green letters , the solemn warning , `` Touch Not The Cup . ''
As Peter was not addicted to habits of intemperance , not even to looking on dandelion wine when it was pale yellow , we did not exactly see why Felicity should have selected such a device .
But Peter was perfectly satisfied , so nobody cast any blight on his happiness by carping criticism .
Later on Felicity told me she had worked the bookmark for him because his father used to drink before he ran away .
`` I thought Peter ought to be warned in time , '' she said .
Even Pat had a ribbon of blue , which he clawed off and lost half an hour after it was tied on him .
Pat did not care for vain adornments of the body .
We had a glorious Christmas dinner , fit for the halls of Lucullus , and ate far more than was good for us , none daring to make us afraid on that one day of the year .
And in the evening -- oh , rapture and delight !
-- we went to Kitty Marr 's party .
It was a fine December evening ; the sharp air of morning had mellowed until it was as mild as autumn .
There had been no snow , and the long fields , sloping down from the homestead , were brown and mellow .
A weird , dreamy stillness had fallen on the purple earth , the dark fir woods , the valley rims , the sere meadows .
Nature seemed to have folded satisfied hands to rest , knowing that her long wintry slumber was coming upon her .
At first , when the invitations to the party had come , Aunt Janet had said we could not go ; but Uncle Alec interceded in our favour , perhaps influenced thereto by Cecily 's wistful eyes .
If Uncle Alec had a favourite among his children it was Cecily , and he had grown even more indulgent towards her of late .
Now and then I saw him looking at her intently , and , following his eyes and thought , I had , somehow , seen that Cecily was paler and thinner than she had been in the summer , and that her soft eyes seemed larger , and that over her little face in moments of repose there was a certain languor and weariness that made it very sweet and pathetic .
And I heard him tell Aunt Janet that he did not like to see the child getting so much the look of her Aunt Felicity .
`` Cecily is perfectly well , '' said Aunt Janet sharply .
`` She 's only growing very fast .
Do n't be foolish , Alec . ''
But after that Cecily had cups of cream where the rest of us got only milk ; and Aunt Janet was very particular to see that she had her rubbers on whenever she went out .
On this merry Christmas evening , however , no fears or dim foreshadowings of any coming event clouded our hearts or faces .
Cecily looked brighter and prettier than I had ever seen her , with her softly shining eyes and the nut brown gloss of her hair .
Felicity was too beautiful for words ; and even the Story Girl , between excitement and the crimson silk array , blossomed out with a charm and allurement more potent than any regular loveliness -- and this in spite of the fact that Aunt Olivia had tabooed the red satin slippers and mercilessly decreed that stout shoes should be worn .
`` I know just how you feel about it , you daughter of Eve , '' she said , with gay sympathy , `` but December roads are damp , and if you are going to walk to Marrs ' you are not going to do it in those frivolous Parisian concoctions , even with overboots on ; so be brave , dear heart , and show that you have a soul above little red satin shoes . ''
`` Anyhow , '' said Uncle Roger , `` that red silk dress will break the hearts of all the feminine small fry at the party .
You 'd break their spirits , too , if you wore the slippers .
Do n't do it , Sara .
Leave them one wee loophole of enjoyment . ''
`` What does Uncle Roger mean ? ''
whispered Felicity .
`` He means you girls are all dying of jealousy because of the Story Girl 's dress , '' said Dan .
`` I am not of a jealous disposition , '' said Felicity loftily , `` and she 's entirely welcome to the dress -- with a complexion like that . ''
But we enjoyed that party hugely , every one of us .
And we enjoyed the walk home afterwards , through dim , enshadowed fields where silvery star-beams lay , while Orion trod his stately march above us , and a red moon climbed up the black horizon 's rim .
A brook went with us part of the way , singing to us through the dark -- a gay , irresponsible vagabond of valley and wilderness .
Felicity and Peter walked not with us .
Peter 's cup must surely have brimmed over that Christmas night .
When we left the Marr house , he had boldly said to Felicity , `` May I see you home ? ''
And Felicity , much to our amazement , had taken his arm and marched off with him .
The primness of her was indescribable , and was not at all ruffled by Dan 's hoot of derision .
As for me , I was consumed by a secret and burning desire to ask the Story Girl if I might see HER home ; but I could not screw my courage to the sticking point .
How I envied Peter his easy , insouciant manner !
I could not emulate him , so Dan and Felix and Cecily and the Story Girl and I all walked hand in hand , huddling a little closer together as we went through James Frewen 's woods -- for there are strange harps in a fir grove , and who shall say what fingers sweep them ?
Mighty and sonorous was the music above our heads as the winds of the night stirred the great boughs tossing athwart the starlit sky .
Perhaps it was that aeolian harmony which recalled to the Story Girl a legend of elder days .
`` I read such a pretty story in one of Aunt Olivia 's books last night , '' she said .
`` It was called ` The Christmas Harp . '
Would you like to hear it ?
It seems to me it would just suit this part of the road . ''
`` There is n't anything about -- about ghosts in it , is there ? ''
said Cecily timidly .
`` Oh , no , I would n't tell a ghost story here for anything .
I 'd frighten myself too much .
This story is about one of the shepherds who saw the angels on the first Christmas night .
He was just a youth , and he loved music with all his heart , and he longed to be able to express the melody that was in his soul .
But he could not ; he had a harp and he often tried to play on it ; but his clumsy fingers only made such discord that his companions laughed at him and mocked him , and called him a madman because he would not give it up , but would rather sit apart by himself , with his arms about his harp , looking up into the sky , while they gathered around their fire and told tales to wile away their long night vigils as they watched their sheep on the hills .
But to him the thoughts that came out of the great silence were far sweeter than their mirth ; and he never gave up the hope , which sometimes left his lips as a prayer , that some day he might be able to express those thoughts in music to the tired , weary , forgetful world .
On the first Christmas night he was out with his fellow shepherds on the hills .
It was chill and dark , and all , except him , were glad to gather around the fire .
He sat , as usual , by himself , with his harp on his knee and a great longing in his heart .
And there came a marvellous light in the sky and over the hills , as if the darkness of the night had suddenly blossomed into a wonderful meadow of flowery flame ; and all the shepherds saw the angels and heard them sing .
And as they sang , the harp that the young shepherd held began to play softly by itself , and as he listened to it he realized that it was playing the same music that the angels sang and that all his secret longings and aspirations and strivings were expressed in it .
From that night , whenever he took the harp in his hands , it played the same music ; and he wandered all over the world carrying it ; wherever the sound of its music was heard hate and discord fled away and peace and good-will reigned .
No one who heard it could think an evil thought ; no one could feel hopeless or despairing or bitter or angry .
When a man had once heard that music it entered into his soul and heart and life and became a part of him for ever .
Years went by ; the shepherd grew old and bent and feeble ; but still he roamed over land and sea , that his harp might carry the message of the Christmas night and the angel song to all mankind .
At last his strength failed him and he fell by the wayside in the darkness ; but his harp played as his spirit passed ; and it seemed to him that a Shining One stood by him , with wonderful starry eyes , and said to him , ` Lo , the music thy harp has played for so many years has been but the echo of the love and sympathy and purity and beauty in thine own soul ; and if at any time in the wanderings thou hadst opened the door of that soul to evil or envy or selfishness thy harp would have ceased to play .
Now thy life is ended ; but what thou hast given to mankind has no end ; and as long as the world lasts , so long will the heavenly music of the Christmas harp ring in the ears of men . '
When the sun rose the old shepherd lay dead by the roadside , with a smile on his face ; and in his hands was a harp with all its strings broken . ''
We left the fir woods as the tale was ended , and on the opposite hill was home .
A dim light in the kitchen window betokened that Aunt Janet had no idea of going to bed until all her young fry were safely housed for the night .
`` Ma 's waiting up for us , '' said Dan .
`` I 'd laugh if she happened to go to the door just as Felicity and Peter were strutting up .
I guess she 'll be cross .
It 's nearly twelve . ''
`` Christmas will soon be over , '' said Cecily , with a sigh .
`` Has n't it been a nice one ?
It 's the first we 've all spent together .
Do you suppose we 'll ever spend another together ? ''
`` Lots of 'em , '' said Dan cheerily .
`` Why not ? ''
`` Oh , I do n't know , '' answered Cecily , her footsteps lagging somewhat .
`` Only things seem just a little too pleasant to last . ''
`` If Willy Fraser had had as much spunk as Peter , Miss Cecily King might n't be so low spirited , '' quoth Dan , significantly .
Cecily tossed her head and disdained reply .
There are really some remarks a self-respecting young lady must ignore .
CHAPTER IV .
NEW YEAR RESOLUTIONS If we did not have a white Christmas we had a white New Year .
Midway between the two came a heavy snowfall .
It was winter in our orchard of old delights then , -- so truly winter that it was hard to believe summer had ever dwelt in it , or that spring would ever return to it .
There were no birds to sing the music of the moon ; and the path where the apple blossoms had fallen were heaped with less fragrant drifts .
But it was a place of wonder on a moonlight night , when the snowy arcades shone like avenues of ivory and crystal , and the bare trees cast fairy-like traceries upon them .
Over Uncle Stephen 's Walk , where the snow had fallen smoothly , a spell of white magic had been woven .
Taintless and wonderful it seemed , like a street of pearl in the new Jerusalem .
On New Year 's Eve we were all together in Uncle Alec 's kitchen , which was tacitly given over to our revels during the winter evenings .
The Story Girl and Peter were there , of course , and Sara Ray 's mother had allowed her to come up on condition that she should be home by eight sharp .
Cecily was glad to see her , but the boys never hailed her arrival with over-much delight , because , since the dark began to come down early , Aunt Janet always made one of us walk down home with her .
We hated this , because Sara Ray was always so maddeningly self-conscious of having an escort .
We knew perfectly well that next day in school she would tell her chums as a `` dead '' secret that `` So-and-So King saw her home '' from the hill farm the night before .
Now , seeing a young lady home from choice , and being sent home with her by your aunt or mother are two entirely different things , and we thought Sara Ray ought to have sense enough to know it .
Outside there was a vivid rose of sunset behind the cold hills of fir , and the long reaches of snowy fields glowed fairily pink in the western light .
The drifts along the edges of the meadows and down the lane looked as if a series of breaking waves had , by the lifting of a magician 's wand , been suddenly transformed into marble , even to their toppling curls of foam .
Slowly the splendour died , giving place to the mystic beauty of a winter twilight when the moon is rising .
The hollow sky was a cup of blue .
The stars came out over the white glens and the earth was covered with a kingly carpet for the feet of the young year to press .
`` I 'm so glad the snow came , '' said the Story Girl .
`` If it had n't the New Year would have seemed just as dingy and worn out as the old .
There 's something very solemn about the idea of a New Year , is n't there ?
Just think of three hundred and sixty-five whole days , with not a thing happened in them yet . ''
`` I do n't suppose anything very wonderful will happen in them , '' said Felix pessimistically .
To Felix , just then , life was flat , stale and unprofitable because it was his turn to go home with Sara Ray .
`` It makes me a little frightened to think of all that may happen in them , '' said Cecily .
`` Miss Marwood says it is what we put into a year , not what we get out of it , that counts at last . ''
`` I 'm always glad to see a New Year , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I wish we could do as they do in Norway .
The whole family sits up until midnight , and then , just as the clock is striking twelve , the father opens the door and welcomes the New Year in .
Is n't it a pretty custom ? ''
`` If ma would let us stay up till twelve we might do that too , '' said Dan , `` but she never will .
I call it mean . ''
`` If I ever have children I 'll let them stay up to watch the New Year in , '' said the Story Girl decidedly .
`` So will I , '' said Peter , `` but other nights they 'll have to go to bed at seven . ''
`` You ought to be ashamed , speaking of such things , '' said Felicity , with a scandalized face .
Peter shrank into the background abashed , no doubt believing that he had broken some Family Guide precept all to pieces .
`` I did n't know it was n't proper to mention children , '' he muttered apologetically .
`` We ought to make some New Year resolutions , '' suggested the Story Girl .
`` New Year 's Eve is the time to make them . ''
`` I ca n't think of any resolutions I want to make , '' said Felicity , who was perfectly satisfied with herself .
`` I could suggest a few to you , '' said Dan sarcastically .
`` There are so many I would like to make , '' said Cecily , `` that I 'm afraid it would n't be any use trying to keep them all . ''
`` Well , let 's all make a few , just for the fun of it , and see if we can keep them , '' I said .
`` And let 's get paper and ink and write them out .
That will make them seem more solemn and binding . ''
`` And then pin them up on our bedroom walls , where we 'll see them every day , '' suggested the Story Girl , `` and every time we break a resolution we must put a cross opposite it .
That will show us what progress we are making , as well as make us ashamed if we have too many crosses . ''
`` And let 's have a Roll of Honour in Our Magazine , '' suggested Felix , `` and every month we 'll publish the names of those who keep their resolutions perfect . ''
`` I think it 's all nonsense , '' said Felicity .
But she joined our circle around the table , though she sat for a long time with a blank sheet before her .
`` Let 's each make a resolution in turn , '' I said .
`` I 'll lead off . ''
And , recalling with shame certain unpleasant differences of opinion I had lately had with Felicity , I wrote down in my best hand , `` I shall try to keep my temper always . ''
`` You 'd better , '' said Felicity tactfully .
It was Dan 's turn next .
`` I ca n't think of anything to start with , '' he said , gnawing his penholder fiercely .
`` You might make a resolution not to eat poison berries , '' suggested Felicity .
`` You 'd better make one not to nag people everlastingly , '' retorted Dan .
`` Oh , do n't quarrel the last night of the old year , '' implored Cecily .
`` You might resolve not to quarrel any time , '' suggested Sara Ray .
`` No , sir , '' said Dan emphatically .
`` There 's no use making a resolution you CA N'T keep .
There are people in this family you 've just GOT to quarrel with if you want to live .
But I 've thought of one -- I wo n't do things to spite people . ''
Felicity -- who really was in an unbearable mood that night -- laughed disagreeably ; but Cecily gave her a fierce nudge , which probably restrained her from speaking .
`` I will not eat any apples , '' wrote Felix .
`` What on earth do you want to give up eating apples for ? ''
asked Peter in astonishment .
`` Never mind , '' returned Felix .
`` Apples make people fat , you know , '' said Felicity sweetly .
`` It seems a funny kind of resolution , '' I said doubtfully .
`` I think our resolutions ought to be giving up wrong things or doing right ones . ''
`` You make your resolutions to suit yourself and I 'll make mine to suit myself , '' said Felix defiantly .
`` I shall never get drunk , '' wrote Peter painstakingly .
`` But you never do , '' said the Story Girl in astonishment .
`` Well , it will be all the easier to keep the resolution , '' argued Peter .
`` That is n't fair , '' complained Dan .
`` If we all resolved not to do the things we never do we 'd all be on the Roll of Honour . ''
`` You let Peter alone , '' said Felicity severely .
`` It 's a very good resolution and one everybody ought to make . ''
`` I shall not be jealous , '' wrote the Story Girl .
`` But are you ? ''
I asked , surprised .
The Story Girl coloured and nodded .
`` Of one thing , '' she confessed , `` but I 'm not going to tell what it is . ''
`` I 'm jealous sometimes , too , '' confessed Sara Ray , `` and so my first resolution will be ' I shall try not to feel jealous when I hear the other girls in school describing all the sick spells they 've had . ' ''
`` Goodness , do you want to be sick ? ''
demanded Felix in astonishment .
`` It makes a person important , '' explained Sara Ray .
`` I am going to try to improve my mind by reading good books and listening to older people , '' wrote Cecily .
`` You got that out of the Sunday School paper , '' cried Felicity .
`` It does n't matter where I got it , '' said Cecily with dignity .
`` The main thing is to keep it . ''
`` It 's your turn , Felicity , '' I said .
Felicity tossed her beautiful golden head .
`` I told you I was n't going to make any resolutions .
Go on yourself . ''
`` I shall always study my grammar lesson , '' I wrote -- I , who loathed grammar with a deadly loathing .
`` I hate grammar too , '' sighed Sara Ray .
`` It seems so unimportant . ''
Sara was rather fond of a big word , but did not always get hold of the right one .
I rather suspected that in the above instance she really meant uninteresting .
`` I wo n't get mad at Felicity , if I can help it , '' wrote Dan .
`` I 'm sure I never do anything to make you mad , '' exclaimed Felicity .
`` I do n't think it 's polite to make resolutions about your sisters , '' said Peter .
`` He ca n't keep it anyway , '' scoffed Felicity .
`` He 's got such an awful temper . ''
`` It 's a family failing , '' flashed Dan , breaking his resolution ere the ink on it was dry .
`` There you go , '' taunted Felicity .
`` I 'll work all my arithmetic problems without any help , '' scribbled Felix .
`` I wish I could resolve that , too , '' sighed Sara Ray , `` but it would n't be any use .
I 'd never be able to do those compound multiplication sums the teacher gives us to do at home every night if I did n't get Judy Pineau to help me .
Judy is n't a good reader and she ca n't spell AT ALL , but you ca n't stick her in arithmetic as far as she went herself .
I feel sure , '' concluded poor Sara , in a hopeless tone , `` that I 'll NEVER be able to understand compound multiplication . '' ''
` Multiplication is vexation , Division is as bad , The rule of three perplexes me , And fractions drive me mad , ' '' quoted Dan .
`` I have n't got as far as fractions yet , '' sighed Sara , `` and I hope I 'll be too big to go to school before I do .
I hate arithmetic , but I am PASSIONATELY fond of geography . ''
`` I will not play tit-tat-x on the fly leaves of my hymn book in church , '' wrote Peter .
`` Mercy , did you ever do such a thing ? ''
exclaimed Felicity in horror .
Peter nodded shamefacedly .
`` Yes -- that Sunday Mr. Bailey preached .
He was so long-winded , I got awful tired , and , anyway , he was talking about things I could n't understand , so I played tit-tat-x with one of the Markdale boys .
It was the day I was sitting up in the gallery . ''
`` Well , I hope if you ever do the like again you wo n't do it in OUR pew , '' said Felicity severely .
`` I ai n't going to do it at all , '' said Peter .
`` I felt sort of mean all the rest of the day . ''
`` I shall try not to be vexed when people interrupt me when I 'm telling stories , '' wrote the Story Girl .
`` but it will be hard , '' she added with a sigh .
`` I never mind being interrupted , '' said Felicity .
`` I shall try to be cheerful and smiling all the time , '' wrote Cecily .
`` You are , anyway , '' said Sara Ray loyally .
`` I do n't believe we ought to be cheerful ALL the time , '' said the Story Girl .
`` The Bible says we ought to weep with those who weep . ''
`` But maybe it means that we 're to weep cheerfully , '' suggested Cecily .
`` Sorter as if you were thinking , ` I 'm very sorry for you but I 'm mighty glad I 'm not in the scrape too , ' '' said Dan .
`` Dan , do n't be irreverent , '' rebuked Felicity .
`` I know a story about old Mr. and Mrs. Davidson of Markdale , '' said the Story Girl .
`` She was always smiling and it used to aggravate her husband , so one day he said very crossly , ` Old lady , what ARE you grinning at ? '
` Oh , well , Abiram , everything 's so bright and pleasant , I 've just got to smile . '
`` Not long after there came a time when everything went wrong -- the crop failed and their best cow died , and Mrs. Davidson had rheumatism ; and finally Mr. Davidson fell and broke his leg .
But still Mrs. Davidson smiled .
` What in the dickens are you grinning about now , old lady ? '
he demanded .
` Oh , well , Abiram , ' she said , ` everything is so dark and unpleasant I 've just got to smile . '
` Well , ' said the old man crossly , ' I think you might give your face a rest sometimes . ' ''
`` I shall not talk gossip , '' wrote Sara Ray with a satisfied air .
`` Oh , do n't you think that 's a little TOO strict ? ''
asked Cecily anxiously .
`` Of course , it 's not right to talk MEAN gossip , but the harmless kind does n't hurt .
If I say to you that Emmy MacPhail is going to get a new fur collar this winter , THAT is harmless gossip , but if I say I do n't see how Emmy MacPhail can afford a new fur collar when her father ca n't pay my father for the oats he got from him , that would be MEAN gossip .
If I were you , Sara , I 'd put MEAN gossip . ''
Sara consented to this amendment .
`` I will be polite to everybody , '' was my third resolution , which passed without comment .
`` I 'll try not to use slang since Cecily does n't like it , '' wrote Dan .
`` I think some slang is real cute , '' said Felicity .
`` The Family Guide says it 's very vulgar , '' grinned Dan .
`` Does n't it , Sara Stanley ? ''
`` Do n't disturb me , '' said the Story Girl dreamily .
`` I 'm just thinking a beautiful thought . ''
`` I 've thought of a resolution to make , '' cried Felicity .
`` Mr. Marwood said last Sunday we should always try to think beautiful thoughts and then our lives would be very beautiful .
So I shall resolve to think a beautiful thought every morning before breakfast . ''
`` Can you only manage one a day ? ''
queried Dan .
`` And why before breakfast ? ''
I asked .
`` Because it 's easier to think on an empty stomach , '' said Peter , in all good faith .
But Felicity shot a furious glance at him .
`` I selected that time , '' she explained with dignity , `` because when I 'm brushing my hair before my glass in the morning I 'll see my resolution and remember it . ''
`` Mr. Marwood meant that ALL our thoughts ought to be beautiful , '' said the Story Girl .
`` If they were , people would n't be afraid to say what they think . ''
`` They ought n't to be afraid to , anyhow , '' said Felix stoutly .
`` I 'm going to make a resolution to say just what I think always . ''
`` And do you expect to get through the year alive if you do ? ''
asked Dan .
`` It might be easy enough to say what you think if you could always be sure just what you DO think , '' said the Story Girl .
`` So often I ca n't be sure . ''
`` How would you like it if people always said just what they think to you ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` I 'm not very particular what SOME people think of me , '' rejoined Felix .
`` I notice you do n't like to be told by anybody that you 're fat , '' retorted Felicity .
`` Oh , dear me , I do wish you would n't all say such sarcastic things to each other , '' said poor Cecily plaintively .
`` It sounds so horrid the last night of the old year .
Dear knows where we 'll all be this night next year .
Peter , it 's your turn . ''
`` I will try , '' wrote Peter , `` to say my prayers every night regular , and not twice one night because I do n't expect to have time the next , -- like I did the night before the party , '' he added .
`` I s ` pose you never said your prayers until we got you to go to church , '' said Felicity -- who had had no hand in inducing Peter to go to church , but had stoutly opposed it , as recorded in the first volume of our family history .
`` I did , too , '' said Peter .
`` Aunt Jane taught me to say my prayers .
Ma had n't time , being as father had run away ; ma had to wash at night same as in day-time . ''
`` I shall learn to cook , '' wrote the Story Girl , frowning .
`` You 'd better resolve not to make puddings of -- '' began Felicity , then stopped as suddenly as if she had bitten off the rest of her sentence and swallowed it .
Cecily had nudged her , so she had probably remembered the Story Girl 's threat that she would never tell another story if she was ever twitted with the pudding she had made from sawdust .
But we all knew what Felicity had started to say and the Story Girl dealt her a most uncousinly glance .
`` I will not cry because mother wo n't starch my aprons , '' wrote Sara Ray .
`` Better resolve not to cry about anything , '' said Dan kindly .
Sara Ray shook her head forlornly .
`` That would be too hard to keep .
There are times when I HAVE to cry .
It 's a relief . ''
`` Not to the folks who have to hear you , '' muttered Dan aside to Cecily .
`` Oh , hush , '' whispered Cecily back .
`` Do n't go and hurt her feelings the last night of the old year .
Is it my turn again ?
Well , I 'll resolve not to worry because my hair is not curly .
But , oh , I 'll never be able to help wishing it was . ''
`` Why do n't you curl it as you used to do , then ? ''
asked Dan .
`` You know very well that I 've never put my hair up in curl papers since the time Peter was dying of the measles , '' said Cecily reproachfully .
`` I resolved then I would n't because I was n't sure it was quite right . ''
`` I will keep my finger-nails neat and clean , '' I wrote .
`` There , that 's four resolutions .
I 'm not going to make any more .
Four 's enough . ''
`` I shall always think twice before I speak , '' wrote Felix .
`` That 's an awful waste of time , '' commented Dan , `` but I guess you 'll need to if you 're always going to say what you think . ''
`` I 'm going to stop with three , '' said Peter .
`` I will have all the good times I can , '' wrote the Story Girl .
`` THAT 'S what I call sensible , '' said Dan .
`` It 's a very easy resolution to keep , anyhow , '' commented Felix .
`` I shall try to like reading the Bible , '' wrote Sara Ray .
`` You ought to like reading the Bible without trying to , '' exclaimed Felicity .
`` If you had to read seven chapters of it every time you were naughty I do n't believe you would like it either , '' retorted Sara Ray with a flash of spirit .
`` I shall try to believe only half of what I hear , '' was Cecily 's concluding resolution .
`` But which half ? ''
scoffed Dan .
`` The best half , '' said sweet Cecily simply .
`` I 'll try to obey mother ALWAYS , '' wrote Sara Ray , with a tremendous sigh , as if she fully realized the difficulty of keeping such a resolution .
`` And that 's all I 'm going to make . ''
`` Felicity has only made one , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I think it better to make just one and keep it than make a lot and break them , '' said Felicity loftily .
She had the last word on the subject , for it was time for Sara Ray to go , and our circle broke up .
Sara and Felix departed and we watched them down the lane in the moonlight -- Sara walking demurely in one runner track , and Felix stalking grimly along in the other .
I fear the romantic beauty of that silver shining night was entirely thrown away on my mischievous brother .
And it was , as I remember it , a most exquisite night -- a white poem , a frosty , starry lyric of light .
It was one of those nights on which one might fall asleep and dream happy dreams of gardens of mirth and song , feeling all the while through one 's sleep the soft splendour and radiance of the white moon-world outside , as one hears soft , far-away music sounding through the thoughts and words that are born of it .
As a matter of fact , however , Cecily dreamed that night that she saw three full moons in the sky , and wakened up crying with the horror of it .
CHAPTER V .
THE FIRST NUMBER OF `` OUR MAGAZINE '' The first number of Our Magazine was ready on New Year 's Day , and we read it that evening in the kitchen .
All our staff had worked nobly and we were enormously proud of the result , although Dan still continued to scoff at a paper that was n't printed .
The Story Girl and I read it turnabout while the others , except Felix , ate apples .
It opened with a short EDITORIAL With this number Our Magazine makes its first bow to the public .
All the editors have done their best and the various departments are full of valuable information and amusement .
The tastefully designed cover is by a famous artist , Mr. Blair Stanley , who sent it to us all the way from Europe at the request of his daughter .
Mr. Peter Craig , our enterprising literary editor , contributes a touching love story .
-LRB- Peter , aside , in a gratified pig 's whisper : `` I never was called ` Mr. ' before . '' -RRB-
Miss Felicity King 's essays on Shakespeare is none the worse for being an old school composition , as it is new to most of our readers .
Miss Cecily King contributes a thrilling article of adventure .
The various departments are ably edited , and we feel that we have reason to be proud of Our Magazine .
But we shall not rest on our oars .
`` Excelsior '' shall ever be our motto .
We trust that each succeeding issue will be better than the one that went before .
We are well aware of many defects , but it is easier to see them than to remedy them .
Any suggestion that would tend to the improvement of Our Magazine will be thankfully received , but we trust that no criticism will be made that will hurt anyone 's feelings .
Let us all work together in harmony , and strive to make Our Magazine an influence for good and a source of innocent pleasure , and let us always remember the words of the poet .
`` The heights by great men reached and kept Were not attained by sudden flight , But they , while their companions slept , Were toiling upwards in the night . ''
-LRB- Peter , IMPRESSIVELY : -- `` I 've read many a worse editorial in the Enterprise . '' -RRB-
ESSAY ON SHAKESPEARE Shakespeare 's full name was William Shakespeare .
He did not always spell it the same way .
He lived in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and wrote a great many plays .
His plays are written in dialogue form .
Some people think they were not written by Shakespeare but by another man of the same name .
I have read some of them because our school teacher says everybody ought to read them , but I did not care much for them .
There are some things in them I can not understand .
I like the stories of Valeria H. Montague in the Family Guide ever so much better .
They are more exciting and truer to life .
Romeo and Juliet was one of the plays I read .
It was very sad .
Juliet dies and I do n't like stories where people die .
I like it better when they all get married especially to dukes and earls .
Shakespeare himself was married to Anne Hatheway .
They are both dead now .
They have been dead a good while .
He was a very famous man .
FELICITY KING .
-LRB- PETER , MODESTLY : `` I do n't know much about Shakespeare myself but I 've got a book of his plays that belonged to my Aunt Jane , and I guess I 'll have to tackle him as soon as I finish with the Bible . '' -RRB-
THE STORY OF AN ELOPEMENT FROM CHURCH This is a true story .
It happened in Markdale to an uncle of my mothers .
He wanted to marry Miss Jemima Parr .
Felicity says Jemima is not a romantic name for a heroin of a story but I cant help it in this case because it is a true story and her name realy was Jemima .
My mothers uncle was named Thomas Taylor .
He was poor at that time and so the father of Miss Jemima Parr did not want him for a soninlaw and told him he was not to come near the house or he would set the dog on him .
Miss Jemima Parr was very pretty and my mothers uncle Thomas was just crazy about her and she wanted him too .
She cried almost every night after her father forbid him to come to the house except the nights she had to sleep or she would have died .
And she was so frightened he might try to come for all and get tore up by the dog and it was a bull-dog too that would never let go .
But mothers uncle Thomas was too cute for that .
He waited till one day there was preaching in the Markdale church in the middle of the week because it was sacrament time and Miss Jemima Parr and her family all went because her father was an elder .
My mothers uncle Thomas went too and set in the pew just behind Miss Jemima Parrs family .
When they all bowed their heads at prayer time Miss Jemima Parr didnt but set bolt uprite and my mothers uncle Thomas bent over and wispered in her ear .
I dont know what he said so I cant right it but Miss Jemima Parr blushed that is turned red and nodded her head .
Perhaps some people may think that my mothers uncle Thomas shouldent of wispered at prayer time in church but you must remember that Miss Jemima Parrs father had thretened to set the dog on him and that was hard lines when he was a respektable young man though not rich .
Well when they were singing the last sam my mothers uncle Thomas got up and went out very quitely and as soon as church was out Miss Jemima Parr walked out too real quick .
Her family never suspekted anything and they hung round talking to folks and shaking hands while Miss Jemima Parr and my mothers uncle Thomas were eloping outside .
And what do you suppose they eloped in .
Why in Miss Jemima Parrs fathers slay .
And when he went out they were gone and his slay was gone also his horse .
Of course my mothers uncle Thomas didnt steal the horse .
He just borroed it and sent it home the next day .
But before Miss Jemima Parrs father could get another rig to follow them they were so far away he couldent catch them before they got married .
And they lived happy together forever afterwards .
Mothers uncle Thomas lived to be a very old man .
He died very suddent .
He felt quite well when he went to sleep and when he woke up he was dead .
PETER CRAIG .
MY MOST EXCITING ADVENTURE The editor says we must all write up our most exciting adventure for Our Magazine .
My most exciting adventure happened a year ago last November .
I was nearly frightened to death .
Dan says he would n't of been scared and Felicity says she would of known what it was but it 's easy to talk .
It happened the night I went down to see Kitty Marr .
I thought when I went that Aunt Olivia was visiting there and I could come home with her .
But she was n't there and I had to come home alone .
Kitty came a piece of the way but she would n't come any further than Uncle James Frewen 's gate .
She said it was because it was so windy she was afraid she would get the tooth-ache and not because she was frightened of the ghost of the dog that haunted the bridge in Uncle James ' hollow .
I did wish she had n't said anything about the dog because I might n't of thought about it if she had n't .
I had to go on alone thinking of it .
I 'd heard the story often but I 'd never believed in it .
They said the dog used to appear at one end of the bridge and walk across it with people and vanish when he got to the other end .
He never tried to bite anyone but one would n't want to meet the ghost of a dog even if one did n't believe in him .
I knew there was no such thing as ghosts and I kept saying a paraphrase over to myself and the Golden Text of the next Sunday School lesson but oh , how my heart beat when I got near the hollow !
It was so dark .
You could just see things dim-like but you could n't see what they were .
When I got to the bridge I walked along sideways with my back to the railing so I could n't think the dog was behind me .
And then just in the middle of the bridge I met something .
It was right before me and it was big and black , just about the size of a Newfoundland dog , and I thought I could see a white nose .
And it kept jumping about from one side of the bridge to the other .
Oh , I hope none of my readers will ever be so frightened as I was then .
I was too frightened to run back because I was afraid it would chase me and I could n't get past it , it moved so quick , and then it just made one spring right on me and I felt its claws and I screamed and fell down .
It rolled off to one side and laid there quite quiet but I did n't dare move and I do n't know what would have become of me if Amos Cowan had n't come along that very minute with a lantern .
And there was me sitting in the middle of the bridge and that awful thing beside me .
And what do you think it was but a big umbrella with a white handle ?
Amos said it was his umbrella and it had blown away from him and he had to go back and get the lantern to look for it .
I felt like asking him what on earth he was going about with an umbrella open when it wasent raining .
But the Cowans do such queer things .
You remember the time Jerry Cowan sold us God 's picture .
Amos took me right home and I was thankful for I do n't know what would have become of me if he had n't come along .
I could n't sleep all night and I never want to have any more adventures like that one .
CECILY KING .
PERSONALS Mr. Dan King felt somewhat indisposed the day after Christmas -- probably as the result of too much mince pie .
-LRB- DAN , INDIGNANTLY : -- `` I was n't .
I only et one piece ! '' -RRB-
Mr. Peter Craig thinks he saw the Family Ghost on Christmas Eve .
But the rest of us think all he saw was the white calf with the red tail .
-LRB- PETER , MUTTERING SULKILY : -- `` It 's a queer calf that would walk up on end and wring its hands . '' -RRB-
Miss Cecily King spent the night of Dec. 20th with Miss Kitty Marr .
They talked most of the night about new knitted lace patterns and their beaus and were very sleepy in school next day .
-LRB- CECILY , SHARPLY : -- `` We never mentioned such things ! '' -RRB-
Patrick Grayfur , Esq. , was indisposed yesterday , but seems to be enjoying his usual health to-day .
The King family expect their Aunt Eliza to visit them in January .
She is really our great-aunt .
We have never seen her but we are told she is very deaf and does not like children .
So Aunt Janet says we must make ourselves scarece when she comes .
Miss Cecily King has undertaken to fill with names a square of the missionary quilt which the Mission Band is making .
You pay five cents to have your name embroidered in a corner , ten cents to have it in the centre , and a quarter if you want it left off altogether .
-LRB- CECILY , INDIGNANTLY : -- `` That is n't the way at all . '' -RRB-
ADS .
WANTED -- A remedy to make a fat boy thin .
Address , `` Patient Sufferer , care of Our Magazine . ''
-LRB- FELIX , SOURLY : -- `` Sara Ray never got that up .
I 'll bet it was Dan .
He 'd better stick to his own department . '' -RRB-
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Mrs. Alexander King killed all her geese the twentieth of December .
We all helped pick them .
We had one Christmas Day and will have one every fortnight the rest of the winter .
The bread was sour last week because mother would n't take my advice .
I told her it was too warm for it in the corner behind the stove .
Miss Felicity King invented a new recete for date cookies recently , which everybody said were excelent .
I am not going to publish it though , because I do n't want other people to find it out .
ANXIOUS INQUIRER : -- If you want to remove inkstains place the stain over steam and apply salt and lemon juice .
If it was Dan who sent this question in I 'd advise him to stop wiping his pen on his shirt sleeves and then he would n't have so many stains .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT F-l-x : -- Yes , you should offer your arm to a lady when seeing her home , but do n't keep her standing too long at the gate while you say good night .
-LRB- FELIX , ENRAGED : -- `` I never asked such a question . '' -RRB-
C-c-l-y : -- No , it is not polite to use `` Holy Moses '' or `` dodgasted '' in ordinary conversation .
-LRB- Cecily had gone down cellar to replenish the apple plate , so this passed without protest . -RRB-
S-r-a : -- No , it is n't polite to cry all the time .
As to whether you should ask a young man in , it all depends on whether he went home with you of his own accord or was sent by some elderly relative .
F-l-t-y : -- It does not break any rule of etiquette if you keep a button off your best young man 's coat for a keepsake .
But do n't take more than one or his mother might miss them .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Knitted mufflers are much more stylish than crocheted ones this winter .
It is nice to have one the same colour as your cap .
Red mittens with a black diamond pattern on the back are much run after .
Em Frewen 's grandma knits hers for her .
She can knit the double diamond pattern and Em puts on such airs about it , but I think the single diamond is in better taste .
The new winter hats at Markdale are very pretty .
It is so exciting to pick a hat .
Boys ca n't have that fun .
Their hats are so much alike .
CECILY KING .
FUNNY PARAGRAPHS This is a true joke and really happened .
There was an old local preacher in New Brunswick one time whose name was Samuel Clask .
He used to preach and pray and visit the sick just like a regular minister .
One day he was visiting a neighbour who was dying and he prayed the Lord to have mercy on him because he was very poor and had worked so hard all his life that he had n't much time to attend to religion .
`` And if you do n't believe me , O Lord , '' Mr. Clask finished up with , `` just take a look at his hands . ''
FELIX KING .
GENERAL INFORMATION BUREAU DAN : -- Do porpoises grow on trees or vines ?
Ans .
Neither .
They inhabit the deep sea .
FELIX KING .
-LRB- DAN , AGGRIEVED : -- `` Well , I 'd never heard of porpoises and it sounded like something that grew .
But you need n't have gone and put it in the paper . ''
FELIX : -- `` It is n't any worse than the things you put in about me that I never asked at all . ''
CECILY , SOOTHINGLY : -- `` Oh , well , boys , it 's all in fun , and I think Our Magazine is perfectly elegant . ''
FELICITY , FAILING TO SEE THE STORY GIRL AND BEVERLEY EXCHANGING WINKS BEHIND HER BACK : -- `` It certainly is , though SOME PEOPLE were so opposed to starting it . '' -RRB-
What harmless , happy fooling it all was !
How we laughed as we read and listened and devoured apples !
Blow high , blow low , no wind can ever quench the ruddy glow of that faraway winter night in our memories .
And though Our Magazine never made much of a stir in the world , or was the means of hatching any genius , it continued to be capital fun for us throughout the year .
CHAPTER VI .
GREAT-AUNT ELIZA 'S VISIT It was a diamond winter day in February -- clear , cold , hard , brilliant .
The sharp blue sky shone , the white fields and hills glittered , the fringe of icicles around the eaves of Uncle Alec 's house sparkled .
Keen was the frost and crisp the snow over our world ; and we young fry of the King households were all agog to enjoy life -- for was it not Saturday , and were we not left all alone to keep house ?
Aunt Janet and Aunt Olivia had had their last big `` kill '' of market poultry the day before ; and early in the morning all our grown-ups set forth to Charlottetown , to be gone the whole day .
They left us many charges as usual , some of which we remembered and some of which we forgot ; but with Felicity in command none of us dared stray far out of line .
The Story Girl and Peter came over , of course , and we all agreed that we would haste and get the work done in the forenoon , that we might have an afternoon of uninterrupted enjoyment .
A taffy-pull after dinner and then a jolly hour of coasting on the hill field before supper were on our programme .
But disappointment was our portion .
We did manage to get the taffy made but before we could sample the result satisfactorily , and just as the girls were finishing with the washing of the dishes , Felicity glanced out of the window and exclaimed in tones of dismay , `` Oh , dear me , here 's Great-aunt Eliza coming up the lane !
Now , is n't that too mean ? ''
We all looked out to see a tall , gray-haired lady approaching the house , looking about her with the slightly puzzled air of a stranger .
We had been expecting Great-aunt Eliza 's advent for some weeks , for she was visiting relatives in Markdale .
We knew she was liable to pounce down on us any time , being one of those delightful folk who like to `` surprise '' people , but we had never thought of her coming that particular day .
It must be confessed that we did not look forward to her visit with any pleasure .
None of us had ever seen her , but we knew she was very deaf , and had very decided opinions as to the way in which children should behave .
`` Whew ! ''
whistled Dan .
`` We 're in for a jolly afternoon .
She 's deaf as a post and we 'll have to split our throats to make her hear at all .
I 've a notion to skin out . ''
`` Oh , do n't talk like that , Dan , '' said Cecily reproachfully .
`` She 's old and lonely and has had a great deal of trouble .
She has buried three husbands .
We must be kind to her and do the best we can to make her visit pleasant . ''
`` She 's coming to the back door , '' said Felicity , with an agitated glance around the kitchen .
`` I told you , Dan , that you should have shovelled the snow away from the front door this morning .
Cecily , set those pots in the pantry quick -- hide those boots , Felix -- shut the cupboard door , Peter -- Sara , straighten up the lounge .
She 's awfully particular and ma says her house is always as neat as wax . ''
To do Felicity justice , while she issued orders to the rest of us , she was flying busily about herself , and it was amazing how much was accomplished in the way of putting the kitchen in perfect order during the two minutes in which Great-aunt Eliza was crossing the yard .
`` Fortunately the sitting-room is tidy and there 's plenty in the pantry , '' said Felicity , who could face anything undauntedly with a well-stocked larder behind her .
Further conversation was cut short by a decided rap at the door .
Felicity opened it .
`` Why , how do you do , Aunt Eliza ? ''
she said loudly .
A slightly bewildered look appeared on Aunt Eliza 's face .
Felicity perceived she had not spoken loudly enough .
`` How do you do , Aunt Eliza , '' she repeated at the top of her voice .
`` Come in -- we are glad to see you .
We 've been looking for you for ever so long . ''
`` Are your father and mother at home ? ''
asked Aunt Eliza , slowly .
`` No , they went to town today .
But they 'll be home this evening . ''
`` I 'm sorry they 're away , '' said Aunt Eliza , coming in , `` because I can stay only a few hours . ''
`` Oh , that 's too bad , '' shouted poor Felicity , darting an angry glance at the rest of us , as if to demand why we did n't help her out .
`` Why , we 've been thinking you 'd stay a week with us anyway .
You MUST stay over Sunday . ''
`` I really ca n't .
I have to go to Charlottetown tonight , '' returned Aunt Eliza .
`` Well , you 'll take off your things and stay to tea , at least , '' urged Felicity , as hospitably as her strained vocal chords would admit .
`` Yes , I think I 'll do that .
I want to get acquainted with my -- my nephews and nieces , '' said Aunt Eliza , with a rather pleasant glance around our group .
If I could have associated the thought of such a thing with my preconception of Great-aunt Eliza I could have sworn there was a twinkle in her eye .
But of course it was impossible .
`` Wo n't you introduce yourselves , please ? ''
Felicity shouted our names and Great-aunt Eliza shook hands all round .
She performed the duty grimly and I concluded I must have been mistaken about the twinkle .
She was certainly very tall and dignified and imposing -- altogether a great-aunt to be respected .
Felicity and Cecily took her to the spare room and then left her in the sitting-room while they returned to the kitchen , to discuss the matter in family conclave .
`` Well , and what do you think of dear Aunt Eliza ? ''
asked Dan .
`` S-s-s-sh , '' warned Cecily , with a glance at the half-open hall door .
`` Pshaw , '' scoffed Dan , `` she ca n't hear us .
There ought to be a law against anyone being as deaf as that . ''
`` She 's not so old-looking as I expected , '' said Felix .
`` If her hair was n't so white she would n't look much older than your mother . ''
`` You do n't have to be very old to be a great-aunt , '' said Cecily .
`` Kitty Marr has a great-aunt who is just the same age as her mother .
I expect it was burying so many husbands turned her hair white .
But Aunt Eliza does n't look just as I expected she would either . ''
`` She 's dressed more stylishly than I expected , '' said Felicity .
`` I thought she 'd be real old-fashioned , but her clothes are n't too bad at all . ''
`` She would n't be bad-looking if ` twere n't for her nose , '' said Peter .
`` It 's too long , and crooked besides . ''
`` You need n't criticize our relations like that , '' said Felicity tartly .
`` Well , are n't you doing it yourselves ? ''
expostulated Peter .
`` That 's different , '' retorted Felicity .
`` Never you mind Great-aunt Eliza 's nose . ''
`` Well , do n't expect me to talk to her , '' said Dan , '' 'cause I wo n't . ''
`` I 'm going to be very polite to her , '' said Felicity .
`` She 's rich .
But how are we to entertain her , that 's the question . ''
`` What does the Family Guide say about entertaining your rich , deaf old aunt ? ''
queried Dan ironically .
`` The Family Guide says we should be polite to EVERYBODY , '' said Cecily , with a reproachful look at Dan .
`` The worst of it is , '' said Felicity , looking worried , `` that there is n't a bit of old bread in the house and she ca n't eat new , I 've heard father say .
It gives her indigestion .
What will we do ? ''
`` Make a pan of rusks and apologize for having no old bread , '' suggested the Story Girl , probably by way of teasing Felicity .
The latter , however , took it in all good faith .
`` The Family Guide says we should never apologize for things we ca n't help .
It says it 's adding insult to injury to do it .
But you run over home for a loaf of stale bread , Sara , and it 's a good idea about the rusks .
I 'll make a panful . ''
`` Let me make them , '' said the Story Girl , eagerly .
`` I can make real good rusks now . ''
`` No , it would n't do to trust you , '' said Felicity mercilessly .
`` You might make some queer mistake and Aunt Eliza would tell it all over the country .
She 's a fearful old gossip .
I 'll make the rusks myself .
She hates cats , so we must n't let Paddy be seen .
And she 's a Methodist , so mind nobody says anything against Methodists to her . ''
`` Who 's going to say anything , anyhow ? ''
asked Peter belligerently .
`` I wonder if I might ask her for her name for my quilt square ? ''
speculated Cecily .
`` I believe I will .
She looks so much friendlier than I expected .
Of course she 'll choose the five-cent section .
She 's an estimable old lady , but very economical . ''
`` Why do n't you say she 's so mean she 'd skin a flea for its hide and tallow ? ''
said Dan .
`` That 's the plain truth . ''
`` Well , I 'm going to see about getting tea , '' said Felicity , `` so the rest of you will have to entertain her .
You better go in and show her the photographs in the album .
Dan , you do it . ''
`` Thank you , that 's a girl 's job , '' said Dan .
`` I 'd look nice sitting up to Aunt Eliza and yelling out that this was Uncle Jim and ` tother Cousin Sarah 's twins , would n't I ?
Cecily or the Story Girl can do it . ''
`` I do n't know all the pictures in your album , '' said the Story Girl hastily .
`` I s ` pose I 'll have to do it , though I do n't like to , '' sighed Cecily .
`` But we ought to go in .
We 've left her alone too long now .
She 'll think we have no manners . ''
Accordingly we all filed in rather reluctantly .
Great-aunt Eliza was toasting her toes -- clad , as we noted , in very smart and shapely shoes -- at the stove and looking quite at her ease .
Cecily , determined to do her duty even in the face of such fearful odds as Great-aunt Eliza 's deafness , dragged a ponderous , plush-covered album from its corner and proceeded to display and explain the family photographs .
She did her brave best but she could not shout like Felicity , and half the time , as she confided to me later on , she felt that Great-aunt Eliza did not hear one word she said , because she did n't seem to take in who the people were , though , just like all deaf folks , she would n't let on .
Great-aunt Eliza certainly did n't talk much ; she looked at the photographs in silence , but she smiled now and then .
That smile bothered me .
It was so twinkly and so very un-great-aunt-Elizaish .
But I felt indignant with her .
I thought she might have shown a little more appreciation of Cecily 's gallant efforts to entertain .
It was very dull for the rest of us .
The Story Girl sat rather sulkily in her corner ; she was angry because Felicity would not let her make the rusks , and also , perhaps , a little vexed because she could not charm Great-aunt Eliza with her golden voice and story-telling gift .
Felix and I looked at each other and wished ourselves out in the hill field , careering gloriously adown its gleaming crust .
But presently a little amusement came our way .
Dan , who was sitting behind Great-aunt Eliza , and consequently out of her view , began making comments on Cecily 's explanation of this one and that one among the photographs .
In vain Cecily implored him to stop .
It was too good fun to give up .
For the next half-hour the dialogue ran after this fashion , while Peter and Felix and I , and even the Story Girl , suffered agonies trying to smother our bursts of laughter -- for Great-aunt Eliza could see if she could n't hear : CECILY , SHOUTING : -- `` That is Mr. Joseph Elliott of Markdale , a second cousin of mother 's . ''
DAN : -- `` Do n't brag of it , Sis .
He 's the man who was asked if somebody else said something in sincerity and old Joe said ` No , he said it in my cellar . ' ''
CECILY : -- `` This is n't anybody in our family .
It 's little Xavy Gautier who used to be hired with Uncle Roger . ''
DAN : -- `` Uncle Roger sent him to fix a gate one day and scolded him because he did n't do it right , and Xavy was mad as hops and said ` How you ` spect me to fix dat gate ?
I never learned jogerfy . ' ''
CECILY , WITH AN ANGUISHED GLANCE AT DAN : -- `` This is Great-uncle Robert King . ''
DAN : -- `` He 's been married four times .
Do n't you think that 's often enough , dear great-aunty ? ''
CECILY : -- '' -LRB- Dan !! -RRB-
This is a nephew of Mr. Ambrose Marr 's .
He lives out west and teaches school . ''
DAN : -- `` Yes , and Uncle Roger says he does n't know enough not to sleep in a field with the gate open . ''
CECILY : -- `` This is Miss Julia Stanley , who used to teach in Carlisle a few years ago . ''
DAN : -- `` When she resigned the trustees had a meeting to see if they 'd ask her to stay and raise her supplement .
Old Highland Sandy was alive then and he got up and said , ` If she for go let her for went .
Perhaps she for marry . ' ''
CECILY , WITH THE AIR OF A MARTYR : -- `` This is Mr. Layton , who used to travel around selling Bibles and hymn books and Talmage 's sermons . ''
DAN : -- `` He was so thin Uncle Roger used to say he always mistook him for a crack in the atmosphere .
One time he stayed here all night and went to prayer meeting and Mr. Marwood asked him to lead in prayer .
It had been raining ` most every day for three weeks , and it was just in haymaking time , and everybody thought the hay was going to be ruined , and old Layton got up and prayed that God would send gentle showers on the growing crops , and I heard Uncle Roger whisper to a fellow behind me , ` If somebody do n't choke him off we wo n't get the hay made this summer . ' ''
CECILY , IN EXASPERATION : -- '' -LRB- Dan , shame on you for telling such irreverent stories . -RRB-
This is Mrs. Alexander Scott of Markdale .
She has been very sick for a long time . ''
DAN : -- `` Uncle Roger says all that keeps her alive is that she 's scared her husband will marry again . ''
CECILY : -- `` This is old Mr. James MacPherson who used to live behind the graveyard . ''
DAN : -- `` He 's the man who told mother once that he always made his own iodine out of strong tea and baking soda . ''
CECILY : -- `` This is Cousin Ebenezer MacPherson on the Markdale road . ''
DAN : -- `` Great temperance man !
He never tasted rum in his life .
He took the measles when he was forty-five and was crazy as a loon with them , and the doctor ordered them to give him a dose of brandy .
When he swallowed it he looked up and says , solemn as an owl , ` Give it to me oftener and more at a time . ' ''
CECILY , IMPLORINGLY : -- '' -LRB- Dan , do stop .
You make me so nervous I do n't know what I 'm doing . -RRB-
This is Mr. Lemuel Goodridge .
He is a minister . ''
DAN : -- `` You ought to see his mouth .
Uncle Roger says the drawing string has fell out of it .
It just hangs loose -- so fashion . ''
Dan , whose own mouth was far from being beautiful , here gave an imitation of the Rev. Lemuel 's , to the utter undoing of Peter , Felix , and myself .
Our wild guffaws of laughter penetrated even Great-aunt Eliza 's deafness , and she glanced up with a startled face .
What we would have done I do not know had not Felicity at that moment appeared in the doorway with panic-stricken eyes and exclaimed , `` Cecily , come here for a moment . ''
Cecily , glad of even a temporary respite , fled to the kitchen and we heard her demanding what was the matter .
`` Matter ! ''
exclaimed Felicity , tragically .
`` Matter enough !
Some of you left a soup plate with molasses in it on the pantry table and Pat got into it and what do you think ?
He went into the spare room and walked all over Aunt Eliza 's things on the bed .
You can see his tracks plain as plain .
What in the world can we do ?
She 'll be simply furious . ''
I looked apprehensively at Great-aunt Eliza ; but she was gazing intently at a picture of Aunt Janet 's sister 's twins , a most stolid , uninteresting pair ; but evidently Great-aunt Eliza found them amusing for she was smiling widely over them .
`` Let us take a little clean water and a soft bit of cotton , '' came Cecily 's clear voice from the kitchen , `` and see if we ca n't clean the molasses off .
The coat and hat are both cloth , and molasses is n't like grease . ''
`` Well , we can try , but I wish the Story Girl would keep her cat home , '' grumbled Felicity .
The Story Girl here flew out to defend her pet , and we four boys sat on , miserably conscious of Great-aunt Eliza , who never said a word to us , despite her previously expressed desire to become acquainted with us .
She kept on looking at the photographs and seemed quite oblivious of our presence .
Presently the girls returned , having , as transpired later , been so successful in removing the traces of Paddy 's mischief that it was not deemed necessary to worry Great-aunt Eliza with any account of it .
Felicity announced tea and , while Cecily conveyed Great-aunt Eliza out to the dining-room , lingered behind to consult with us for a moment .
`` Ought we to ask her to say grace ? ''
she wanted to know .
`` I know a story , '' said the Story Girl , `` about Uncle Roger when he was just a young man .
He went to the house of a very deaf old lady and when they sat down to the table she asked him to say grace .
Uncle Roger had never done such a thing in his life and he turned as red as a beet and looked down and muttered , ` E-r-r , please excuse me -- I -- I 'm not accustomed to doing that . '
Then he looked up and the old lady said ` Amen , ' loudly and cheerfully .
She thought Uncle Roger was saying grace all the time . ''
`` I do n't think it 's right to tell funny stories about such things , '' said Felicity coldly .
`` And I asked for your opinion , not for a story . ''
`` If we do n't ask her , Felix must say it , for he 's the only one who can , and we must have it , or she 'd be shocked . ''
`` Oh , ask her -- ask her , '' advised Felix hastily .
She was asked accordingly and said grace without any hesitation , after which she proceeded to eat heartily of the excellent supper Felicity had provided .
The rusks were especially good and Great-aunt Eliza ate three of them and praised them .
Apart from that she said little and during the first part of the meal we sat in embarrassed silence .
Towards the last , however , our tongues were loosened , and the Story Girl told us a tragic tale of old Charlottetown and a governor 's wife who had died of a broken heart in the early days of the colony .
`` They say that story is n't true , '' said Felicity .
`` They say what she really died of was indigestion .
The Governor 's wife who lives there now is a relation of our own .
She is a second cousin of father 's but we 've never seen her .
Her name was Agnes Clark .
And mind you , when father was a young man he was dead in love with her and so was she with him . ''
`` Who ever told you that ? ''
exclaimed Dan .
`` Aunt Olivia .
And I 've heard ma teasing father about it , too .
Of course , it was before father got acquainted with mother . ''
`` Why did n't your father marry her ? ''
I asked .
`` Well , she just simply would n't marry him in the end .
She got over being in love with him .
I guess she was pretty fickle .
Aunt Olivia said father felt awful about it for awhile , but he got over it when he met ma .
Ma was twice as good-looking as Agnes Clark .
Agnes was a sight for freckles , so Aunt Olivia says .
But she and father remained real good friends .
Just think , if she had married him we would have been the children of the Governor 's wife . ''
`` But she would n't have been the Governor 's wife then , '' said Dan .
`` I guess it 's just as good being father 's wife , '' declared Cecily loyally .
`` You might think so if you saw the Governor , '' chuckled Dan .
`` Uncle Roger says it would be no harm to worship him because he does n't look like anything in the heavens above or on the earth beneath or the waters under the earth . ''
`` Oh , Uncle Roger just says that because he 's on the opposite side of politics , '' said Cecily .
`` The Governor is n't really so very ugly .
I saw him at the Markdale picnic two years ago .
He 's very fat and bald and red-faced , but I 've seen far worse looking men . ''
`` I 'm afraid your seat is too near the stove , Aunt Eliza , '' shouted Felicity .
Our guest , whose face was certainly very much flushed , shook her head .
`` Oh , no , I 'm very comfortable , '' she said .
But her voice had the effect of making us uncomfortable .
There was a queer , uncertain little sound in it .
Was Great-aunt Eliza laughing at us ?
We looked at her sharply but her face was very solemn .
Only her eyes had a suspicious appearance .
Somehow , we did not talk much more the rest of the meal .
When it was over Great-aunt Eliza said she was very sorry but she must really go .
Felicity politely urged her to stay , but was much relieved when Great-aunt Eliza adhered to her intention of going .
When Felicity took her to the spare room Cecily slipped upstairs and presently came back with a little parcel in her hand .
`` What have you got there ? ''
demanded Felicity suspiciously .
`` A -- a little bag of rose-leaves , '' faltered Cecily .
`` I thought I 'd give them to Aunt Eliza . ''
`` The idea !
Do n't you do such a thing , '' said Felicity contemptuously .
`` She 'd think you were crazy . ''
`` She was awfully nice when I asked her for her name for the quilt , '' protested Cecily , `` and she took a ten-cent section after all .
So I 'd like to give her the rose-leaves -- and I 'm going to , too , Miss Felicity . ''
Great-aunt Eliza accepted the little gift quite graciously , bade us all good-bye , said she had enjoyed herself very much , left messages for father and mother , and finally betook herself away .
We watched her cross the yard , tall , stately , erect , and disappear down the lane .
Then , as often aforetime , we gathered together in the cheer of the red hearth-flame , while outside the wind of a winter twilight sang through fair white valleys brimmed with a reddening sunset , and a faint , serene , silver-cold star glimmered over the willow at the gate .
`` Well , '' said Felicity , drawing a relieved breath , `` I 'm glad she 's gone .
She certainly is queer , just as mother said . ''
`` It 's a different kind of queerness from what I expected , though , '' said the Story Girl meditatively .
`` There 's something I ca n't quite make out about Aunt Eliza .
I do n't think I altogether like her . ''
`` I 'm precious sure I do n't , '' said Dan .
`` Oh , well , never mind .
She 's gone now and that 's the last of it , '' said Cecily comfortingly .
But it was n't the last of it -- not by any manner of means was it !
When our grown-ups returned almost the first words Aunt Janet said were , `` And so you had the Governor 's wife to tea ? ''
We all stared at her .
`` I do n't know what you mean , '' said Felicity .
`` We had nobody to tea except Great-aunt Eliza .
She came this afternoon and -- '' `` Great-aunt Eliza ?
Nonsense , '' said Aunt Janet .
`` Aunt Eliza was in town today .
She had tea with us at Aunt Louisa 's .
But was n't Mrs. Governor Lesley here ?
We met her on her way back to Charlottetown and she told us she was .
She said she was visiting a friend in Carlisle and thought she 'd call to see father for old acquaintance sake .
What in the world are all you children staring like that for ?
Your eyes are like saucers . ''
`` There was a lady here to tea , '' said Felicity miserably , `` but we thought it was Great-aunt Eliza -- she never SAID she was n't -- I thought she acted queer -- and we all yelled at her as if she was deaf -- and said things to each other about her nose -- and Pat running over her clothes -- '' `` She must have heard all you said while I was showing her the photographs , Dan , '' cried Cecily .
`` And about the Governor at tea time , '' chuckled unrepentant Dan .
`` I want to know what all this means , '' said Aunt Janet sternly .
She knew in due time , after she had pieced the story together from our disjointed accounts .
She was horrified , and Uncle Alec was mildly disturbed , but Uncle Roger roared with laughter and Aunt Olivia echoed it .
`` To think you should have so little sense ! ''
said Aunt Janet in a disgusted tone .
`` I think it was real mean of her to pretend she was deaf , '' said Felicity , almost on the verge of tears .
`` That was Agnes Clark all over , '' chuckled Uncle Roger .
`` How she must have enjoyed this afternoon ! ''
She had enjoyed it , as we learned the next day , when a letter came from her .
`` Dear Cecily and all the rest of you , '' wrote the Governor 's wife , `` I want to ask you to forgive me for pretending to be Aunt Eliza .
I suspect it was a little horrid of me , but really I could n't resist the temptation , and if you will forgive me for it I will forgive you for the things you said about the Governor , and we will all be good friends .
You know the Governor is a very nice man , though he has the misfortune not to be handsome .
`` I had just a splendid time at your place , and I envy your Aunt Eliza her nephews and nieces .
You were all so nice to me , and I did n't dare to be a bit nice to you lest I should give myself away .
But I 'll make up for that when you come to see me at Government House , as you all must the very next time you come to town .
I 'm so sorry I did n't see Paddy , for I love pussy cats , even if they do track molasses over my clothes .
And , Cecily , thank you ever so much for that little bag of pot-pourri .
It smells like a hundred rose gardens , and I have put it between the sheets for my very sparest room bed , where you shall sleep when you come to see me , you dear thing .
And the Governor wants you to put his name on the quilt square , too , in the ten-cent section .
`` Tell Dan I enjoyed his comments on the photographs very much .
They were quite a refreshing contrast to the usual explanations of ` who 's who . '
And Felicity , your rusks were perfection .
Do send me your recipe for them , there 's a darling .
`` Yours most cordially , AGNES CLARK LESLEY .
`` Well , it was decent of her to apologize , anyhow , '' commented Dan .
`` If we only had n't said that about the Governor , '' moaned Felicity .
`` How did you make your rusks ? ''
asked Aunt Janet .
`` There was no baking-powder in the house , and I never could get them right with soda and cream of tartar . ''
`` There was plenty of baking-powder in the pantry , '' said Felicity .
`` No , there was n't a particle .
I used the last making those cookies Thursday morning . ''
`` But I found another can nearly full , away back on the top shelf , ma , -- the one with the yellow label .
I guess you forgot it was there . ''
Aunt Janet stared at her pretty daughter blankly .
Then amazement gave place to horror .
`` Felicity King ! ''
she exclaimed .
`` You do n't mean to tell me that you raised those rusks with the stuff that was in that old yellow can ? ''
`` Yes , I did , '' faltered Felicity , beginning to look scared .
`` Why , ma , what was the matter with it ? ''
`` Matter !
That stuff was TOOTH-POWDER , that 's what it was .
Your Cousin Myra broke the bottle her tooth-powder was in when she was here last winter and I gave her that old can to keep it in .
She forgot to take it when she went away and I put it on that top shelf .
I declare you must all have been bewitched yesterday . ''
Poor , poor Felicity !
If she had not always been so horribly vain over her cooking and so scornfully contemptuous of other people 's aspirations and mistakes along that line , I could have found it in my heart to pity her .
The Story Girl would have been more than human if she had not betrayed a little triumphant amusement , but Peter stood up for his lady manfully .
`` The rusks were splendid , anyhow , so what difference does it make what they were raised with ? ''
Dan , however , began to taunt Felicity with her tooth-powder rusks , and kept it up for the rest of his natural life .
`` Do n't forget to send the Governor 's wife the recipe for them , '' he said .
Felicity , with eyes tearful and cheeks crimson from mortification , rushed from the room , but never , never did the Governor 's wife get the recipe for those rusks .
CHAPTER VII .
WE VISIT COUSIN MATTIE 'S One Saturday in March we walked over to Baywater , for a long-talked-of visit to Cousin Mattie Dilke .
By the road , Baywater was six miles away , but there was a short cut across hills and fields and woods which was scantly three .
We did not look forward to our visit with any particular delight , for there was nobody at Cousin Mattie 's except grown-ups who had been grown up so long that it was rather hard for them to remember they had ever been children .
But , as Felicity told us , it was necessary to visit Cousin Mattie at least once a year , or else she would be `` huffed , '' so we concluded we might as well go and have it over .
`` Anyhow , we 'll get a splendiferous dinner , '' said Dan .
`` Cousin Mattie 's a great cook and there 's nothing stingy about her . ''
`` You are always thinking of your stomach , '' said Felicity pleasantly .
`` Well , you know I could n't get along very well without it , darling , '' responded Dan who , since New Year 's , had adopted a new method of dealing with Felicity -- whether by way of keeping his resolution or because he had discovered that it annoyed Felicity far more than angry retorts , deponent sayeth not .
He invariably met her criticisms with a good-natured grin and a flippant remark with some tender epithet tagged on to it .
Poor Felicity used to get hopelessly furious over it .
Uncle Alec was dubious about our going that day .
He looked abroad on the general dourness of gray earth and gray air and gray sky , and said a storm was brewing .
But Cousin Mattie had been sent word that we were coming , and she did not like to be disappointed , so he let us go , warning us to stay with Cousin Mattie all night if the storm came on while we were there .
We enjoyed our walk -- even Felix enjoyed it , although he had been appointed to write up the visit for Our Magazine and was rather weighed down by the responsibility of it .
What mattered it though the world were gray and wintry ?
We walked the golden road and carried spring time in our hearts , and we beguiled our way with laughter and jest , and the tales the Story Girl told us -- myths and legends of elder time .
The walking was good , for there had lately been a thaw and everything was frozen .
We went over fields , crossed by spidery trails of gray fences , where the withered grasses stuck forlornly up through the snow ; we lingered for a time in a group of hill pines , great , majestic tree-creatures , friends of evening stars ; and finally struck into the belt of fir and maple which intervened between Carlisle and Baywater .
It was in this locality that Peg Bowen lived , and our way lay near her house though not directly in sight of it .
We hoped we would not meet her , for since the affair of the bewitchment of Paddy we did not know quite what to think of Peg ; the boldest of us held his breath as we passed her haunts , and drew it again with a sigh of relief when they were safely left behind .
The woods were full of the brooding stillness that often precedes a storm , and the wind crept along their white , cone-sprinkled floors with a low , wailing cry .
Around us were solitudes of snow , arcades picked out in pearl and silver , long avenues of untrodden marble whence sprang the cathedral columns of the firs .
We were all sorry when we were through the woods and found ourselves looking down into the snug , commonplace , farmstead-dotted settlement of Baywater .
`` There 's Cousin Mattie 's house -- that big white one at the turn of the road , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I hope she has that dinner ready , Dan .
I 'm hungry as a wolf after our walk . ''
`` I wish Cousin Mattie 's husband was still alive , '' said Dan .
`` He was an awful nice old man .
He always had his pockets full of nuts and apples .
I used to like going there better when he was alive .
Too many old women do n't suit me . ''
`` Oh , Dan , Cousin Mattie and her sisters-in-law are just as nice and kind as they can be , '' reproached Cecily .
`` Oh , they 're kind enough , but they never seem to see that a fellow gets over being five years old if he only lives long enough , '' retorted Dan .
`` I know a story about Cousin Mattie 's husband , '' said the Story Girl .
`` His name was Ebenezer , you know -- '' `` Is it any wonder he was thin and stunted looking ? ''
said Dan .
`` Ebenezer is just as nice a name as Daniel , '' said Felicity .
`` Do you REALLY think so , my angel ? ''
inquired Dan , in honey-sweet tones .
`` Go on .
Remember your second resolution , '' I whispered to the Story Girl , who was stalking along with an outraged expression .
The Story Girl swallowed something and went on .
`` Cousin Ebenezer had a horror of borrowing .
He thought it was simply a dreadful disgrace to borrow ANYTHING .
Well , you know he and Cousin Mattie used to live in Carlisle , where the Rays now live .
This was when Grandfather King was alive .
One day Cousin Ebenezer came up the hill and into the kitchen where all the family were .
Uncle Roger said he looked as if he had been stealing sheep .
He sat for a whole hour in the kitchen and hardly spoke a word , but just looked miserable .
At last he got up and said in a desperate sort of way , ` Uncle Abraham , can I speak with you in private for a minute ? '
` Oh , certainly , ' said grandfather , and took him into the parlour .
Cousin Ebenezer shut the door , looked all around him and then said imploringly , ` MORE PRIVATE STILL . '
So grandfather took him into the spare room and shut that door .
He was getting frightened .
He thought something terrible must have happened Cousin Ebenezer .
Cousin Ebenezer came right up to grandfather , took hold of the lapel of his coat , and said in a whisper , ` Uncle Abraham , CAN -- YOU -- LEND -- ME -- AN -- AXE ? ' ''
`` He need n't have made such a mystery about it , '' said Cecily , who had missed the point entirely , and could n't see why the rest of us were laughing .
But Cecily was such a darling that we did not mind her lack of a sense of humour .
`` It 's kind of mean to tell stories like that about people who are dead , '' said Felicity .
`` Sometimes it 's safer than when they 're alive though , sweetheart , '' commented Dan .
We had our expected good dinner at Cousin Mattie 's -- may it be counted unto her for righteousness .
She and her sisters-in-law , Miss Louisa Jane and Miss Caroline , were very kind to us .
We had quite a nice time , although I understood why Dan objected to them when they patted us all on the head and told us whom we resembled and gave us peppermint lozenges .
CHAPTER VIII .
WE VISIT PEG BOWEN We left Cousin Mattie 's early , for it still looked like a storm , though no more so than it had in the morning .
We intended to go home by a different path -- one leading through cleared land overgrown with scrub maple , which had the advantage of being farther away from Peg Bowen 's house .
We hoped to be home before it began to storm , but we had hardly reached the hill above the village when a fine , driving snow began to fall .
It would have been wiser to have turned back even then ; but we had already come a mile and we thought we would have ample time to reach home before it became really bad .
We were sadly mistaken ; by the time we had gone another half-mile we were in the thick of a bewildering , blinding snowstorm .
But it was by now just as far back to Cousin Mattie 's as it was to Uncle Alec 's , so we struggled on , growing more frightened at every step .
We could hardly face the stinging snow , and we could not see ten feet ahead of us .
It had turned bitterly cold and the tempest howled all around us in white desolation under the fast-darkening night .
The narrow path we were trying to follow soon became entirely obliterated and we stumbled blindly on , holding to each other , and trying to peer through the furious whirl that filled the air .
Our plight had come upon us so suddenly that we could not realize it .
Presently Peter , who was leading the van because he was supposed to know the path best , stopped .
`` I ca n't see the road any longer , '' he shouted .
`` I do n't know where we are . ''
We all stopped and huddled together in a miserable group .
Fear filled our hearts .
It seemed ages ago that we had been snug and safe and warm at Cousin Mattie 's .
Cecily began to cry with cold .
Dan , in spite of her protests , dragged off his overcoat and made her put it on .
`` We ca n't stay here , '' he said .
`` We 'll all freeze to death if we do .
Come on -- we 've got to keep moving .
The snow ai n't so deep yet .
Take hold of my hand , Cecily .
We must all hold together .
Come , now . ''
`` It wo n't be nice to be frozen to death , but if we get through alive think what a story we 'll have to tell , '' said the Story Girl between her chattering teeth .
In my heart I did not believe we would ever get through alive .
It was almost pitch dark now , and the snow grew deeper every moment .
We were chilled to the heart .
I thought how nice it would be to lie down and rest ; but I remembered hearing that that was fatal , and I endeavoured to stumble on with the others .
It was wonderful how the girls kept up , even Cecily .
It occurred to me to be thankful that Sara Ray was not with us .
But we were wholly lost now .
All around us was a horror of great darkness .
Suddenly Felicity fell .
We dragged her up , but she declared she could not go on -- she was done out .
`` Have you any idea where we are ? ''
shouted Dan to Peter .
`` No , '' Peter shouted back , `` the wind is blowing every which way .
I have n't any idea where home is . ''
Home !
Would we ever see it again ?
We tried to urge Felicity on , but she only repeated drowsily that she must lie down and rest .
Cecily , too , was reeling against me .
The Story Girl still stood up staunchly and counselled struggling on , but she was numb with cold and her words were hardly distinguishable .
Some wild idea was in my mind that we must dig a hole in the snow and all creep into it .
I had read somewhere that people had thus saved their lives in snowstorms .
Suddenly Felix gave a shout .
`` I see a light , '' he cried .
`` Where ?
Where ? ''
We all looked but could see nothing .
`` I do n't see it now but I saw it a moment ago , '' shouted Felix .
`` I 'm sure I did .
Come on -- over in this direction . ''
Inspired with fresh hope we hurried after him .
Soon we all saw the light -- and never shone a fairer beacon .
A few more steps and , coming into the shelter of the woodland on the further side , we realized where we were .
`` That 's Peg Bowen 's house , '' exclaimed Peter , stopping short in dismay .
`` I do n't care whose house it is , '' declared Dan .
`` We 've got to go to it . ''
`` I s ` pose so , '' acquiesced Peter ruefully .
`` We ca n't freeze to death even if she is a witch . ''
`` For goodness ' sake do n't say anything about witches so close to her house , '' gasped Felicity .
`` I 'll be thankful to get in anywhere . ''
We reached the house , climbed the flight of steps that led to that mysterious second story door , and Dan rapped .
The door opened promptly and Peg Bowen stood before us , in what seemed exactly the same costume she had worn on the memorable day when we had come , bearing gifts , to propitiate her in the matter of Paddy .
`` Behind her was a dim room scantly illumined by the one small candle that had guided us through the storm ; but the old Waterloo stove was colouring the gloom with tremulous , rose-red whorls of light , and warm and cosy indeed seemed Peg 's retreat to us snow-covered , frost-chilled , benighted wanderers .
`` Gracious goodness , where did yez all come from ? ''
exclaimed Peg .
`` Did they turn yez out ? ''
`` We 've been over to Baywater , and we got lost in the storm coming back , '' explained Dan .
`` We did n't know where we were till we saw your light .
I guess we 'll have to stay here till the storm is over -- if you do n't mind . ''
`` And if it wo n't inconvenience you , '' said Cecily timidly .
`` Oh , it 's no inconvenience to speak of .
Come in .
Well , yez HAVE got some snow on yez .
Let me get a broom .
You boys stomp your feet well and shake your coats .
You girls give me your things and I 'll hang them up .
Guess yez are most froze .
Well , sit up to the stove and git het up . ''
Peg bustled away to gather up a dubious assortment of chairs , with backs and rungs missing , and in a few minutes we were in a circle around her roaring stove , getting dried and thawed out .
In our wildest flights of fancy we had never pictured ourselves as guests at the witch 's hearth-stone .
Yet here we were ; and the witch herself was actually brewing a jorum of ginger tea for Cecily , who continued to shiver long after the rest of us were roasted to the marrow .
Poor Sis drank that scalding draught , being in too great awe of Peg to do aught else .
`` That 'll soon fix your shivers , '' said our hostess kindly .
`` And now I 'll get yez all some tea . ''
`` Oh , please do n't trouble , '' said the Story Girl hastily . ''
` Tai n't any trouble , '' said Peg briskly ; then , with one of the sudden changes to fierceness which made her such a terrifying personage , `` Do yez think my vittels ai n't clean ? ''
`` Oh , no , no , '' cried Felicity quickly , before the Story Girl could speak , `` none of us would ever think THAT .
Sara only meant she did n't want you to go to any bother on our account . ''
`` It ai n't any bother , '' said Peg , mollified .
`` I 'm spry as a cricket this winter , though I have the realagy sometimes .
Many a good bite I 've had in your ma 's kitchen .
I owe yez a meal . ''
No more protests were made .
We sat in awed silence , gazing with timid curiosity about the room , the stained , plastered walls of which were well-nigh covered with a motley assortment of pictures , chromos , and advertisements , pasted on without much regard for order or character .
We had heard much of Peg 's pets and now we saw them .
Six cats occupied various cosy corners ; one of them , the black goblin which had so terrified us in the summer , blinked satirically at us from the centre of Peg 's bed .
Another , a dilapidated , striped beastie , with both ears and one eye gone , glared at us from the sofa in the corner .
A dog , with only three legs , lay behind the stove ; a crow sat on a roost above our heads , in company with a matronly old hen ; and on the clock shelf were a stuffed monkey and a grinning skull .
We had heard that a sailor had given Peg the monkey .
But where had she got the skull ?
And whose was it ?
I could not help puzzling over these gruesome questions .
Presently tea was ready and we gathered around the festal board -- a board literally as well as figuratively , for Peg 's table was the work of her own unskilled hands .
The less said about the viands of that meal , and the dishes they were served in , the better .
But we ate them -- bless you , yes !
-- as we would have eaten any witch 's banquet set before us .
Peg might or might not be a witch -- common sense said not ; but we knew she was quite capable of turning every one of us out of doors in one of her sudden fierce fits if we offended her ; and we had no mind to trust ourselves again to that wild forest where we had fought a losing fight with the demon forces of night and storm .
But it was not an agreeable meal in more ways than one .
Peg was not at all careful of anybody 's feelings .
She hurt Felix 's cruelly as she passed him his cup of tea .
`` You 've gone too much to flesh , boy .
So the magic seed did n't work , hey ? ''
How in the world had Peg found out about that magic seed ?
Felix looked uncommonly foolish .
`` If you 'd come to me in the first place I 'd soon have told you how to get thin , '' said Peg , nodding wisely .
`` Wo n't you tell me now ? ''
asked Felix eagerly , his desire to melt his too solid flesh overcoming his dread and shame .
`` No , I do n't like being second fiddle , '' answered Peg with a crafty smile .
`` Sara , you 're too scrawny and pale -- not much like your ma .
I knew her well .
She was counted a beauty , but she made no great things of a match .
Your father had some money but he was a tramp like meself .
Where is he now ? ''
`` In Rome , '' said the Story Girl rather shortly .
`` People thought your ma was crazy when she took him .
But she 'd a right to please herself .
Folks is too ready to call other folks crazy .
There 's people who say I 'M not in my right mind .
Did yez ever '' -- Peg fixed Felicity with a piercing glance -- `` hear anything so ridiculous ? ''
`` Never , '' said Felicity , white to the lips .
`` I wish everybody was as sane as I am , '' said Peg scornfully .
Then she looked poor Felicity over critically .
`` You 're good-looking but proud .
And your complexion wo n't wear .
It 'll be like your ma 's yet -- too much red in it . ''
`` Well , that 's better than being the colour of mud , '' muttered Peter , who was n't going to hear his lady traduced , even by a witch .
All the thanks he got was a furious look from Felicity , but Peg had not heard him and now she turned her attention to Cecily .
`` You look delicate .
I daresay you 'll never live to grow up . ''
Cecily 's lip trembled and Dan 's face turned crimson .
`` Shut up , '' he said to Peg .
`` You 've no business to say such things to people . ''
I think my jaw dropped .
I know Peter 's and Felix 's did .
Felicity broke in wildly .
`` Oh , do n't mind him , Miss Bowen .
He 's got SUCH a temper -- that 's just the way he talks to us all at home .
PLEASE excuse him . ''
`` Bless you , I do n't mind him , '' said Peg , from whom the unexpected seemed to be the thing to expect .
`` I like a lad of spurrit .
And so your father run away , did he , Peter ?
He used to be a beau of mine -- he seen me home three times from singing school when we was young .
Some folks said he did it for a dare .
There 's such a lot of jealousy in the world , ai n't there ?
Do you know where he is now ? ''
`` No , '' said Peter .
`` Well , he 's coming home before long , '' said Peg mysteriously .
`` Who told you that ? ''
cried Peter in amazement .
`` Better not ask , '' responded Peg , looking up at the skull .
If she meant to make the flesh creep on our bones she succeeded .
But now , much to our relief , the meal was over and Peg invited us to draw our chairs up to the stove again .
`` Make yourselves at home , '' she said , producing her pipe from her pocket .
`` I ai n't one of the kind who thinks their houses too good to live in .
Guess I wo n't bother washing the dishes .
They 'll do yez for breakfast if yez do n't forget your places .
I s ` pose none of yez smokes . ''
`` No , '' said Felicity , rather primly .
`` Then yez do n't know what 's good for yez , '' retorted Peg , rather grumpily .
But a few whiffs of her pipe placated her and , observing Cecily sigh , she asked her kindly what was the matter .
`` I 'm thinking how worried they 'll be at home about us , '' explained Cecily .
`` Bless you , dearie , do n't be worrying over that .
I 'll send them word that yez are all snug and safe here . ''
`` But how can you ? ''
cried amazed Cecily .
`` Better not ask , '' said Peg again , with another glance at the skull .
An uncomfortable silence followed , finally broken by Peg , who introduced her pets to us and told how she had come by them .
The black cat was her favourite .
`` That cat knows more than I do , if yez 'll believe it , '' she said proudly .
`` I 've got a rat too , but he 's a bit shy when strangers is round .
Your cat got all right again that time , did n't he ? ''
`` Yes , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Thought he would , '' said Peg , nodding sagely .
`` I seen to that .
Now , do n't yez all be staring at the hole in my dress . ''
`` We were n't , '' was our chorus of protest .
`` Looked as if yez were .
I tore that yesterday but I did n't mend it .
I was brought up to believe that a hole was an accident but a patch was a disgrace .
And so your Aunt Olivia is going to be married after all ? ''
This was news to us .
We felt and looked dazed .
`` I never heard anything of it , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Oh , it 's true enough .
She 's a great fool .
I 've no faith in husbands .
But one good thing is she ai n't going to marry that Henry Jacobs of Markdale .
He wants her bad enough .
Just like his presumption , -- thinking himself good enough for a King .
His father is the worst man alive .
He chased me off his place with his dog once .
But I 'll get even with him yet . ''
Peg looked very savage , and visions of burned barns floated through our minds .
`` He 'll be punished in hell , you know , '' said Peter timidly .
`` But I wo n't be there to see that , '' rejoined Peg .
`` Some folks say I 'll go there because I do n't go to church oftener .
But I do n't believe it . ''
`` Why do n't you go ? ''
asked Peter , with a temerity that bordered on rashness .
`` Well , I 've got so sunburned I 'm afraid folks might take me for an Injun , '' explained Peg , quite seriously .
`` Besides , your minister makes such awful long prayers .
Why does he do it ? ''
`` I suppose he finds it easier to talk to God than to people , '' suggested Peter reflectively .
`` Well , anyway , I belong to the round church , '' said Peg comfortably , `` and so the devil ca n't catch ME at the corners .
I have n't been to Carlisle church for over three years .
I thought I 'd a-died laughing the last time I was there .
Old Elder Marr took up the collection that day .
He 'd on a pair of new boots and they squeaked all the way up and down the aisles .
And every time the boots squeaked the elder made a face , like he had toothache .
It was awful funny .
How 's your missionary quilt coming on , Cecily ? ''
Was there anything Peg did n't know ?
`` Very well , '' said Cecily .
`` You can put my name on it , if you want to . ''
`` Oh , thank you .
Which section -- the five-cent one or the ten-cent one ? ''
asked Cecily timidly .
`` The ten-cent one , of course .
The best is none too good for me .
I 'll give you the ten cents another time .
I 'm short of change just now -- not being as rich as Queen Victory .
There 's her picture up there -- the one with the blue sash and diamint crown and the lace curting on her head .
Can any of yez tell me this -- is Queen Victory a married woman ? ''
`` Oh , yes , but her husband is dead , '' answered the Story Girl .
`` Well , I s ` pose they could n't have called her an old maid , seeing she was a queen , even if she 'd never got married .
Sometimes I sez to myself , ` Peg , would you like to be Queen Victory ? '
But I never know what to answer .
In summer , when I can roam anywhere in the woods and the sunshine -- I would n't be Queen Victory for anything .
But when it 's winter and cold and I ca n't git nowheres -- I feel as if I would n't mind changing places with her . ''
Peg put her pipe back in her mouth and began to smoke fiercely .
The candle wick burned long , and was topped by a little cap of fiery red that seemed to wink at us like an impish gnome .
The most grotesque shadow of Peg flickered over the wall behind her .
The one-eyed cat remitted his grim watch and went to sleep .
Outside the wind screamed like a ravening beast at the window .
Suddenly Peg removed her pipe from her mouth , bent forward , gripped my wrist with her sinewy fingers until I almost cried out with pain , and gazed straight into my face .
I felt horribly frightened of her .
She seemed an entirely different creature .
A wild light was in her eyes , a furtive , animal-like expression was on her face .
When she spoke it was in a different voice and in different language .
`` Do you hear the wind ? ''
she asked in a thrilling whisper .
`` What IS the wind ?
What IS the wind ? ''
`` I -- I -- do n't know , '' I stammered .
`` No more do I , '' said Peg , `` and nobody knows .
Nobody knows what the wind is .
I wish I could find out .
I might n't be so afraid of the wind if I knew what it was .
I am afraid of it .
When the blasts come like that I want to crouch down and hide me .
But I can tell you one thing about the wind -- it 's the only free thing in the world -- THE -- ONLY -- FREE -- THING .
Everything else is subject to some law , but the wind is FREE .
It bloweth where it listeth and no man can tame it .
It 's free -- that 's why I love it , though I 'm afraid of it .
It 's a grand thing to be free -- free free -- free ! ''
Peg 's voice rose almost to a shriek .
We were dreadfully frightened , for we knew there were times when she was quite crazy and we feared one of her `` spells '' was coming on her .
But with a swift movement she turned the man 's coat she wore up over her shoulders and head like a hood , completely hiding her face .
Then she crouched forward , elbows on knees , and relapsed into silence .
None of us dared speak or move .
We sat thus for half an hour .
Then Peg jumped up and said briskly in her usual tone , `` Well , I guess yez are all sleepy and ready for bed .
You girls can sleep in my bed over there , and I 'll take the sofy .
Yez can put the cat off if yez like , though he wo n't hurt yez .
You boys can go downstairs .
There 's a big pile of straw there that 'll do yez for a bed , if yez put your coats on .
I 'll light yez down , but I ai n't going to leave yez a light for fear yez 'd set fire to the place . ''
Saying good-night to the girls , who looked as if they thought their last hour was come , we went to the lower room .
It was quite empty , save for a pile of fire wood and another of clean straw .
Casting a stealthy glance around , ere Peg withdrew the light , I was relieved to see that there were no skulls in sight .
We four boys snuggled down in the straw .
We did not expect to sleep , but we were very tired and before we knew it our eyes were shut , to open no more till morning .
The poor girls were not so fortunate .
They always averred they never closed an eye .
Four things prevented them from sleeping .
In the first place Peg snored loudly ; in the second place the fitful gleams of firelight kept flickering over the skull for half the night and making gruesome effects on it ; in the third place Peg 's pillows and bedclothes smelled rankly of tobacco smoke ; and in the fourth place they were afraid the rat Peg had spoken of might come out to make their acquaintance .
Indeed , they were sure they heard him skirmishing about several times .
When we wakened in the morning the storm was over and a young morning was looking through rosy eyelids across a white world .
The little clearing around Peg 's cabin was heaped with dazzling drifts , and we boys fell to and shovelled out a road to her well .
She gave us breakfast -- stiff oatmeal porridge without milk , and a boiled egg apiece .
Cecily could NOT eat her porridge ; she declared she had such a bad cold that she had no appetite ; a cold she certainly had ; the rest of us choked our messes down and after we had done so Peg asked us if we had noticed a soapy taste .
`` The soap fell into the porridge while I was making it , '' she said .
`` But , '' -- smacking her lips , -- `` I 'm going to make yez an Irish stew for dinner .
It 'll be fine . ''
An Irish stew concocted by Peg !
No wonder Dan said hastily , `` You are very kind but we 'll have to go right home . ''
`` Yez ca n't walk , '' said Peg .
`` Oh , yes , we can .
The drifts are so hard they 'll carry , and the snow will be pretty well blown off the middle of the fields .
It 's only three-quarters of a mile .
We boys will go home and get a pung and come back for you girls . ''
But the girls would n't listen to this .
They must go with us , even Cecily .
`` Seems to me yez were n't in such a hurry to leave last night , '' observed Peg sarcastically .
`` Oh , it 's only because they 'll be so anxious about us at home , and it 's Sunday and we do n't want to miss Sunday School , '' explained Felicity .
`` Well , I hope your Sunday School will do yez good , '' said Peg , rather grumpily .
But she relented again at the last and gave Cecily a wishbone .
`` Whatever you wish on that will come true , '' she said .
`` But you only have the one wish , so do n't waste it . ''
`` We 're so much obliged to you for all your trouble , '' said the Story Girl politely .
`` Never mind the trouble .
The expense is the thing , '' retorted Peg grimly .
`` Oh ! ''
Felicity hesitated .
`` If you would let us pay you -- give you something -- '' `` No , thank yez , '' responded Peg loftily .
`` There is people who take money for their hospitality , I 've heerd , but I 'm thankful to say I do n't associate with that class .
Yez are welcome to all yez have had here , if yez ARE in a big hurry to get away . ''
She shut the door behind us with something of a slam , and her black cat followed us so far , with stealthy , furtive footsteps , that we were frightened of it .
Eventually it turned back ; then , and not till then , did we feel free to discuss our adventure .
`` Well , I 'm thankful we 're out of THAT , '' said Felicity , drawing a long breath .
`` Has n't it just been an awful experience ? ''
`` We might all have been found frozen stark and stiff this morning , '' remarked the Story Girl with apparent relish .
`` I tell you , it was a lucky thing we got to Peg Bowen 's , '' said Dan .
`` Miss Marwood says there is no such thing as luck , '' protested Cecily .
`` We ought to say it was Providence instead . ''
`` Well , Peg and Providence do n't seem to go together very well , somehow , '' retorted Dan .
`` If Peg is a witch it must be the Other One she 's in co. .
with . ''
`` Dan , it 's getting to be simply scandalous the way you talk , '' said Felicity .
`` I just wish ma could hear you . ''
`` Is soap in porridge any worse than tooth-powder in rusks , lovely creature ? ''
asked Dan .
`` Dan , Dan , '' admonished Cecily , between her coughs , `` remember it 's Sunday . ''
`` It seems hard to remember that , '' said Peter .
`` It does n't seem a mite like Sunday and it seems awful long since yesterday . ''
`` Cecily , you 've got a dreadful cold , '' said the Story Girl anxiously .
`` In spite of Peg 's ginger tea , '' added Felix .
`` Oh , that ginger tea was AWFUL , '' exclaimed poor Cecily .
`` I thought I 'd never get it down -- it was so hot with ginger -- and there was so much of it !
But I was so frightened of offending Peg I 'd have tried to drink it all if there had been a bucketful .
Oh , yes , it 's very easy for you all to laugh !
You did n't have to drink it . ''
`` We had to eat two meals , though , '' said Felicity with a shiver .
`` And I do n't know when those dishes of hers were washed .
I just shut my eyes and took gulps . ''
`` Did you notice the soapy taste in the porridge ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
`` Oh , there were so many queer tastes about it I did n't notice one more than another , '' answered Felicity wearily .
`` What bothers me , '' remarked Peter absently , `` is that skull .
Do you suppose Peg really finds things out by it ? ''
`` Nonsense !
How could she ? ''
scoffed Felix , bold as a lion in daylight .
`` She did n't SAY she did , you know , '' I said cautiously .
`` Well , we 'll know in time if the things she said were going to happen do , '' mused Peter .
`` Do you suppose your father is really coming home ? ''
queried Felicity .
`` I hope not , '' answered Peter decidedly .
`` You ought to be ashamed of yourself , '' said Felicity severely .
`` No , I ought n't .
Father got drunk all the time he was home , and would n't work and was bad to mother , '' said Peter defiantly .
`` She had to support him as well as herself and me .
I do n't want to see any father coming home , and you 'd better believe it .
Of course , if he was the right sort of a father it 'd be different . ''
`` What I would like to know is if Aunt Olivia is going to be married , '' said the Story Girl absently .
`` I can hardly believe it .
But now that I think of it -- Uncle Roger has been teasing her ever since she was in Halifax last summer . ''
`` If she does get married you 'll have to come and live with us , '' said Cecily delightedly .
Felicity did not betray so much delight and the Story Girl remarked with a weary little sigh that she hoped Aunt Olivia would n't .
We all felt rather weary , somehow .
Peg 's predictions had been unsettling , and our nerves had all been more or less strained during our sojourn under her roof .
We were glad when we found ourselves at home .
The folks had not been at all troubled about us , but it was because they were sure the storm had come up before we would think of leaving Cousin Mattie 's and not because they had received any mysterious message from Peg 's skull .
We were relieved at this , but on the whole , our adventure had not done much towards clearing up the vexed question of Peg 's witchcraft .
CHAPTER IX .
EXTRACTS FROM THE FEBRUARY AND MARCH NUMBERS OF `` OUR MAGAZINE '' RESOLUTION HONOUR ROLL Miss Felicity King .
HONOURABLE MENTION Mr. Felix King .
Mr. Peter Craig .
Miss Sara Ray .
EDITORIAL The editor wishes to make a few remarks about the Resolution Honour Roll .
As will be seen , only one name figures on it .
Felicity says she has thought a beautiful thought every morning before breakfast without missing one morning , not even the one we were at Peg Bowen 's .
Some of our number think it not fair that Felicity should be on the honour roll -LRB- FELICITY , ASIDE : `` That 's Dan , of course . '' -RRB-
when she only made one resolution and wo n't tell us what any of the thoughts were .
So we have decided to give honourable mention to everybody who has kept one resolution perfect .
Felix has worked all his arithmetic problems by himself .
He complains that he never got more than a third of them right and the teacher has marked him away down ; but one can not keep resolutions without some inconvenience .
Peter has never played tit-tat-x in church or got drunk and says it was n't as bad as he expected .
-LRB- PETER , INDIGNANTLY : `` I never said it . ''
CECILY , SOOTHINGLY : `` Now , Peter , Bev only meant that as a joke . '' -RRB-
Sara Ray has never talked any mean gossip , but does not find conversation as interesting as it used to be .
-LRB- SARA RAY , WONDERINGLY : `` I do n't remember of saying that . '' -RRB-
Felix did not eat any apples until March , but forgot and ate seven the day we were at Cousin Mattie 's .
-LRB- FELIX : `` I only ate five ! '' -RRB-
He soon gave up trying to say what he thought always .
He got into too much trouble .
We think Felix ought to change to old Grandfather King 's rule .
It was , `` Hold your tongue when you can , and when you ca n't tell the truth . ''
Cecily feels she has not read all the good books she might , because some she tried to read were very dull and the Pansy books were so much more interesting .
And it is no use trying not to feel bad because her hair is n't curly and she has marked that resolution out .
The Story Girl came very near to keeping her resolution to have all the good times possible , but she says she missed two , if not three , she might have had .
Dan refuses to say anything about his resolutions and so does the editor .
PERSONALS We regret that Miss Cecily King is suffering from a severe cold .
Mr. Alexander Marr of Markdale died very suddenly last week .
We never heard of his death till he was dead .
Miss Cecily King wishes to state that she did not ask the question about `` Holy Moses '' and the other word in the January number .
Dan put it in for a mean joke .
The weather has been cold and fine .
We have only had one bad storm .
The coasting on Uncle Roger 's hill continues good .
Aunt Eliza did not favour us with a visit after all .
She took cold and had to go home .
We were sorry that she had a cold but glad that she had to go home .
Cecily said she thought it wicked of us to be glad .
But when we asked her `` cross her heart '' if she was n't glad herself she had to say she was .
Miss Cecily King has got three very distinguished names on her quilt square .
They are the Governor and his wife and a witch 's .
The King family had the honour of entertaining the Governor 's wife to tea on February the seventeenth .
We are all invited to visit Government House but some of us think we wo n't go .
A tragic event occurred last Tuesday .
Mrs. James Frewen came to tea and there was no pie in the house .
Felicity has not yet fully recovered .
A new boy is coming to school .
His name is Cyrus Brisk and his folks moved up from Markdale .
He says he is going to punch Willy Fraser 's head if Willy keeps on thinking he is Miss Cecily King 's beau .
-LRB- CECILY : `` I have n't ANY beau !
I do n't mean to think of such a thing for at least eight years yet ! '' -RRB-
Miss Alice Reade of Charlottetown Royalty has come to Carlisle to teach music .
She boards at Mr. Peter Armstrong 's .
The girls are all going to take music lessons from her .
Two descriptions of her will be found in another column .
Felix wrote one , but the girls thought he did not do her justice , so Cecily wrote another one .
She admits she copied most of the description out of Valeria H. Montague 's story Lord Marmaduke 's First , Last , and Only Love ; or the Bride of the Castle by the Sea , but says they fit Miss Reade better than anything she could make up .
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Always keep the kitchen tidy and then you need n't mind if company comes unexpectedly .
ANXIOUS INQUIRER : We do n't know anything that will take the stain out of a silk dress when a soft-boiled egg is dropped on it .
Better not wear your silk dress so often , especially when boiling eggs .
Ginger tea is good for colds .
OLD HOUSEKEEPER : Yes , when the baking-powder gives out you can use tooth-powder instead .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` I never wrote that !
I do n't care , I do n't think it 's fair for other people to be putting things in my department ! '' -RRB-
Our apples are not keeping well this year .
They are rotting ; and besides father says we eat an awful lot of them .
PERSEVERANCE : I will give you the recipe for dumplings you ask for .
But remember it is not everyone who can make dumplings , even from the recipe .
There 's a knack in it .
If the soap falls into the porridge do not tell your guests about it until they have finished eating it because it might take away their appetite .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT P-r C-g : -- Do not criticize people 's noses unless you are sure they ca n't hear you , and do n't criticize your best girl 's great-aunt 's nose in any case .
-LRB- FELICITY , TOSSING HER HEAD : `` Oh , my !
I s ` pose Dan thought that was extra smart . '' -RRB-
C-y K-g : -- When my most intimate friend walks with another girl and exchanges lace patterns with her , what ought I to do ?
Ans .
Adopt a dignified attitude .
F-y K-g : -- It is better not to wear your second best hat to church , but if your mother says you must it is not for me to question her decision .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` Dan just copied that word for word out of the Family Guide , except about the hat part . '' -RRB-
P-r C-g : -- Yes , it would be quite proper to say good evening to the family ghost if you met it .
F-x K-g : -- No , it is not polite to sleep with your mouth open .
What 's more , it is n't safe .
Something might fall into it .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Crocheted watch pockets are all the rage now .
If you have n't a watch they do to carry your pencil in or a piece of gum .
It is stylish to have hair ribbons to match your dress .
But it is hard to match gray drugget .
I like scarlet for that .
It is stylish to pin a piece of ribbon on your coat the same colour as your chum wears in her hair .
Mary Martha Cowan saw them doing it in town and started us doing it here .
I always wear Kitty 's ribbon and Kitty wears mine , but the Story Girl thinks it is silly .
CECILY KING .
AN ACCOUNT OF OUR VISIT TO COUSIN MATTIE 'S We all walked over to Cousin Mattie 's last week .
They were all well there and we had a fine dinner .
On our way back a snow-storm came up and we got lost in the woods .
We did n't know where we were or nothing .
If we had n't seen a light I guess we 'd all have been frozen and snowed over , and they would never have found us till spring and that would be very sad .
But we saw a light and made for it and it was Peg Bowen 's .
Some people think she is a witch and it 's hard to tell , but she was real hospitable and took us all in .
Her house was very untidy but it was warm .
She has a skull .
I mean a loose skull , not her own .
She lets on it tells her things , but Uncle Alec says it could n't because it was only an Indian skull that old Dr. Beecham had and Peg stole it when he died , but Uncle Roger says he would n't trust himself with Peg 's skull for anything .
She gave us supper .
It was a horrid meal .
The Story Girl says I must not tell what I found in the bread and butter because it would be too disgusting to read in Our Magazine but it do n't matter because we were all there , except Sara Ray , and know what it was .
We stayed all night and us boys slept in straw .
None of us had ever slept on straw before .
We got home in the morning .
That is all I can write about our visit to Cousin Mattie 's .
FELIX KING .
MY WORST ADVENTURE It 's my turn to write it so I suppose I must .
I guess my worst adventure was two years ago when a whole lot of us were coasting on Uncle Rogers hill .
Charlie Cowan and Fred Marr had started , but half-way down their sled got stuck and I run down to shove them off again .
Then I stood there just a moment to watch them with my back to the top of the hill .
While I was standing there Rob Marr started Kitty and Em Frewen off on his sled .
His sled had a wooden tongue in it and it slanted back over the girls ' heads .
I was right in the way and they yelled to me to get out , but just as I heard them it struck me .
The sled took me between the legs and I was histed back over the tongue and dropped in a heap behind before I knew what had happened to me .
I thought a tornado had struck me .
The girls could n't stop though they thought I was killed , but Rob came tearing down and helped me up .
He was awful scared but I was n't killed nor my back was n't broken but my nose bled something awful and kept on bleeding for three days .
Not all the time but by spells .
DAN KING .
THE STORY OF HOW CARLISLE GOT ITS NAME This is a true story to .
Long ago there was a girl lived in charlotte town .
I dont know her name so I cant right it and maybe it is just as well for Felicity might think it wasnt romantik like Miss Jemima Parrs .
She was awful pretty and a young englishman who had come out to make his fortune fell in love with her and they were engaged to be married the next spring .
His name was Mr. Carlisle .
In the winter he started off to hunt cariboo for a spell .
Cariboos lived on the island then .
There aint any here now .
He got to where it is Carlisle now .
It was n't anything then only woods and a few indians .
He got awful sick and was sick for ever so long in a indian camp and only an old micmac squaw to wait on him .
Back in town they all thought he was dead and his girl felt bad for a little while and then got over it and took up with another beau .
The girls say that wasnt romantik but I think it was sensible but if it had been me that died I 'd have felt bad if she forgot me so soon .
But he hadnt died and when he got back to town he went right to her house and walked in and there she was standing up to be married to the other fellow .
Poor Mr. Carlisle felt awful .
He was sick and week and it went to his head .
He just turned and run and run till he got back to the old micmac 's camp and fell in front of it .
But the indians had gone because it was spring and it didnt matter because he really was dead this time and people come looking for him from town and found him and buryed him there and called the place after him .
They say the girl was never happy again and that was hard lines on her but maybe she deserved it .
PETER CRAIG .
MISS ALICE READE Miss Alice Reade is a very pretty girl .
She has kind of curly blackish hair and big gray eyes and a pale face .
She is tall and thin but her figure is pretty fair and she has a nice mouth and a sweet way of speaking .
The girls are crazy about her and talk about her all the time .
FELIX KING .
BEAUTIFUL ALICE That is what we girls call Miss Reade among ourselves .
She is divinely beautiful .
Her magnificent wealth of raven hair flows back in glistening waves from her sun-kissed brow .
-LRB- DAN : `` If Felix had said she was sunburned you 'd have all jumped on him . ''
-LRB- CECILY , COLDLY : `` Sun-kissed does n't mean sunburned . ''
DAN : `` What does it mean then ? ''
CECILY , EMBARRASSED : `` I -- I do n't know .
But Miss Montague says the Lady Geraldine 's brow was sun-kissed and of course an earl 's daughter would n't be sunburned .
`` THE STORY GIRL : `` Oh , do n't interrupt the reading like this .
It spoils it . '' -RRB-
Her eyes are gloriously dark and deep , like midnight lakes mirroring the stars of heaven .
Her features are like sculptured marble and her mouth is a trembling , curving Cupid 's bow .
-LRB- PETER , ASIDE : `` What kind of a thing is that ? '' -RRB-
Her creamy skin is as fair and flawless as the petals of a white lily .
Her voice is like the ripple of a woodland brook and her slender form is matchless in its symmetry .
-LRB- DAN : `` That 's Valeria 's way of putting it , but Uncle Roger says she do n't show her feed much . ''
FELICITY : `` Dan !
if Uncle Roger is vulgar you need n't be ! '' -RRB-
Her hands are like a poet 's dreams .
She dresses so nicely and looks so stylish in her clothes .
Her favourite colour is blue .
Some people think she is stiff and some say she is stuck-up , but she is n't a bit .
It 's just that she is different from them and they do n't like it .
She is just lovely and we adore her . -RRB-
CECILY KING .
CHAPTER X. DISAPPEARANCE OF PADDY As I remember , the spring came late that year in Carlisle .
It was May before the weather began to satisfy the grown-ups .
But we children were more easily pleased , and we thought April a splendid month because the snow all went early and left gray , firm , frozen ground for our rambles and games .
As the days slipped by they grew more gracious ; the hillsides began to look as if they were thinking of mayflowers ; the old orchard was washed in a bath of tingling sunshine and the sap stirred in the big trees ; by day the sky was veiled with delicate cloud drift , fine and filmy as woven mist ; in the evenings a full , low moon looked over the valleys , as pallid and holy as some aureoled saint ; a sound of laughter and dream was on the wind and the world grew young with the mirth of April breezes .
`` It 's so nice to be alive in the spring , '' said the Story Girl one twilight as we swung on the boughs of Uncle Stephen 's walk .
`` It 's nice to be alive any time , '' said Felicity , complacently .
`` But it 's nicer in the spring , '' insisted the Story Girl .
`` When I 'm dead I think I 'll FEEL dead all the rest of the year , but when spring comes I 'm sure I 'll feel like getting up and being alive again . ''
`` You do say such queer things , '' complained Felicity .
`` You wo n't be really dead any time .
You 'll be in the next world .
And I think it 's horrid to talk about people being dead anyhow . ''
`` We 've all got to die , '' said Sara Ray solemnly , but with a certain relish .
It was as if she enjoyed looking forward to something in which nothing , neither an unsympathetic mother , nor the cruel fate which had made her a colourless little nonentity , could prevent her from being the chief performer .
`` I sometimes think , '' said Cecily , rather wearily , `` that it is n't so dreadful to die young as I used to suppose . ''
She prefaced her remark with a slight cough , as she had been all too apt to do of late , for the remnants of the cold she had caught the night we were lost in the storm still clung to her .
`` Do n't talk such nonsense , Cecily , '' cried the Story Girl with unwonted sharpness , a sharpness we all understood .
All of us , in our hearts , though we never spoke of it to each other , thought Cecily was not as well as she ought to be that spring , and we hated to hear anything said which seemed in any way to touch or acknowledge the tiny , faint shadow which now and again showed itself dimly athwart our sunshine .
`` Well , it was you began talking of being dead , '' said Felicity angrily .
`` I do n't think it 's right to talk of such things .
Cecily , are you sure your feet ai n't damp ?
We ought to go in anyhow -- it 's too chilly out here for you . ''
`` You girls had better go , '' said Dan , `` but I ai n't going in till old Isaac Frewen goes .
I 've no use for him . ''
`` I hate him , too , '' said Felicity , agreeing with Dan for once in her life .
`` He chews tobacco all the time and spits on the floor -- the horrid pig ! ''
`` And yet his brother is an elder in the church , '' said Sara Ray wonderingly .
`` I know a story about Isaac Frewen , '' said the Story Girl .
`` When he was young he went by the name of Oatmeal Frewen and he got it this way .
He was noted for doing outlandish things .
He lived at Markdale then and he was a great , overgrown , awkward fellow , six feet tall .
He drove over to Baywater one Saturday to visit his uncle there and came home the next afternoon , and although it was Sunday he brought a big bag of oatmeal in the wagon with him .
When he came to Carlisle church he saw that service was going on there , and he concluded to stop and go in .
But he did n't like to leave his oatmeal outside for fear something would happen to it , because there were always mischievous boys around , so he hoisted the bag on his back and walked into church with it and right to the top of the aisle to Grandfather King 's pew .
Grandfather King used to say he would never forget it to his dying day .
The minister was preaching and everything was quiet and solemn when he heard a snicker behind him .
Grandfather King turned around with a terrible frown -- for you know in those days it was thought a dreadful thing to laugh in church -- to rebuke the offender ; and what did he see but that great , hulking young Isaac stalking up the aisle , bending a little forward under the weight of a big bag of oatmeal ?
Grandfather King was so amazed he could n't laugh , but almost everyone else in the church was laughing , and grandfather said he never blamed them , for no funnier sight was ever seen .
Young Isaac turned into grandfather 's pew and thumped the bag of oatmeal down on the seat with a thud that cracked it .
Then he plumped down beside it , took off his hat , wiped his face , and settled back to listen to the sermon , just as if it was all a matter of course .
When the service was over he hoisted his bag up again , marched out of church , and drove home .
He could never understand why it made so much talk ; but he was known by the name of Oatmeal Frewen for years . ''
Our laughter , as we separated , rang sweetly through the old orchard and across the far , dim meadows .
Felicity and Cecily went into the house and Sara Ray and the Story Girl went home , but Peter decoyed me into the granary to ask advice .
`` You know Felicity has a birthday next week , '' he said , `` and I want to write her an ode . ''
`` A -- a what ? ''
I gasped .
`` An ode , '' repeated Peter , gravely .
`` It 's poetry , you know .
I 'll put it in Our Magazine . ''
`` But you ca n't write poetry , Peter , '' I protested .
`` I 'm going to try , '' said Peter stoutly .
`` That is , if you think she wo n't be offended at me . ''
`` She ought to feel flattered , '' I replied .
`` You never can tell how she 'll take things , '' said Peter gloomily .
`` Of course I ai n't going to sign my name , and if she ai n't pleased I wo n't tell her I wrote it .
Do n't you let on . ''
I promised I would n't and Peter went off with a light heart .
He said he meant to write two lines every day till he got it done .
Cupid was playing his world-old tricks with others than poor Peter that spring .
Allusion has been made in these chronicles to one , Cyrus Brisk , and to the fact that our brown-haired , soft-voiced Cecily had found favour in the eyes of the said Cyrus .
Cecily did not regard her conquest with any pride .
On the contrary , it annoyed her terribly to be teased about Cyrus .
She declared she hated both him and his name .
She was as uncivil to him as sweet Cecily could be to anyone , but the gallant Cyrus was nothing daunted .
He laid determined siege to Cecily 's young heart by all the methods known to love-lorn swains .
He placed delicate tributes of spruce gum , molasses taffy , `` conversation '' candies and decorated slate pencils on her desk ; he persistently `` chose '' her in all school games calling for a partner ; he entreated to be allowed to carry her basket from school ; he offered to work her sums for her ; and rumour had it that he had made a wild statement to the effect that he meant to ask if he might see her home some night from prayer meeting .
Cecily was quite frightened that he would ; she confided to me that she would rather die than walk home with him , but that if he asked her she would be too bashful to say no .
So far , however , Cyrus had not molested her out of school , nor had he as yet thumped Willy Fraser -- who was reported to be very low in his spirits over the whole affair .
And now Cyrus had written Cecily a letter -- a love letter , mark you .
Moreover , he had sent it through the post-office , with a real stamp on it .
Its arrival made a sensation among us .
Dan brought it from the office and , recognizing the handwriting of Cyrus , gave Cecily no peace until she showed us the letter .
It was a very sentimental and rather ill-spelled epistle in which the inflammable Cyrus reproached her in heart-rending words for her coldness , and begged her to answer his letter , saying that if she did he would keep the secret `` in violets . ''
Cyrus probably meant `` inviolate '' but Cecily thought it was intended for a poetical touch .
He signed himself `` your troo lover , Cyrus Brisk '' and added in a postcript that he could n't eat or sleep for thinking of her .
`` Are you going to answer it ? ''
asked Dan .
`` Certainly not , '' said Cecily with dignity .
`` Cyrus Brisk wants to be kicked , '' growled Felix , who never seemed to be any particular friend of Willy Fraser 's either .
`` He 'd better learn how to spell before he takes to writing love letters . ''
`` Maybe Cyrus will starve to death if you do n't , '' suggested Sara Ray .
`` I hope he will , '' said Cecily cruelly .
She was truly vexed over the letter ; and yet , so contradictory a thing is the feminine heart , even at twelve years old , I think she was a little flattered by it also .
It was her first love letter and she confided to me that it gives you a very queer feeling to get it .
At all events -- the letter , though unanswered , was not torn up .
I feel sure Cecily preserved it .
But she walked past Cyrus next morning at school with a frozen countenance , evincing not the slightest pity for his pangs of unrequited affection .
Cecily winced when Pat caught a mouse , visited a school chum the day the pigs were killed that she might not hear their squealing , and would not have stepped on a caterpillar for anything ; yet she did not care at all how much she made the brisk Cyrus suffer .
Then , suddenly , all our spring gladness and Maytime hopes were blighted as by a killing frost .
Sorrow and anxiety pervaded our days and embittered our dreams by night .
Grim tragedy held sway in our lives for the next fortnight .
Paddy disappeared .
One night he lapped his new milk as usual at Uncle Roger 's dairy door and then sat blandly on the flat stone before it , giving the world assurance of a cat , sleek sides glistening , plumy tail gracefully folded around his paws , brilliant eyes watching the stir and flicker of bare willow boughs in the twilight air above him .
That was the last seen of him .
In the morning he was not .
At first we were not seriously alarmed .
Paddy was no roving Thomas , but occasionally he vanished for a day or so .
But when two days passed without his return we became anxious , the third day worried us greatly , and the fourth found us distracted .
`` Something has happened to Pat , '' the Story Girl declared miserably .
`` He never stayed away from home more than two days in his life . ''
`` What could have happened to him ? ''
asked Felix .
`` He 's been poisoned -- or a dog has killed him , '' answered the Story Girl in tragic tones .
Cecily began to cry at this ; but tears were of no avail .
Neither was anything else , apparently .
We searched every nook and cranny of barns and out-buildings and woods on both the King farms ; we inquired far and wide ; we roved over Carlisle meadows calling Paddy 's name , until Aunt Janet grew exasperated and declared we must stop making such exhibitions of ourselves .
But we found and heard no trace of our lost pet .
The Story Girl moped and refused to be comforted ; Cecily declared she could not sleep at night for thinking of poor Paddy dying miserably in some corner to which he had dragged his failing body , or lying somewhere mangled and torn by a dog .
We hated every dog we saw on the ground that he might be the guilty one .
`` It 's the suspense that 's so hard , '' sobbed the Story Girl .
`` If I just knew what had happened to him it would n't be QUITE so hard .
But I do n't know whether he 's dead or alive .
He may be living and suffering , and every night I dream that he has come home and when I wake up and find it 's only a dream it just breaks my heart . ''
`` It 's ever so much worse than when he was so sick last fall , '' said Cecily drearily .
`` Then we knew that everything was done for him that could be done . ''
We could not appeal to Peg Bowen this time .
In our desperation we would have done it , but Peg was far away .
With the first breath of spring she was up and off , answering to the lure of the long road .
She had not been seen in her accustomed haunts for many a day .
Her pets were gaining their own living in the woods and her house was locked up .
CHAPTER XI .
THE WITCH 'S WISHBONE When a fortnight had elapsed we gave up all hope .
`` Pat is dead , '' said the Story Girl hopelessly , as we returned one evening from a bootless quest to Andrew Cowan 's where a strange gray cat had been reported -- a cat which turned out to be a yellowish brown nondescript , with no tail to speak of .
`` I 'm afraid so , '' I acknowledged at last .
`` If only Peg Bowen had been at home she could have found him for us , '' asserted Peter .
`` Her skull would have told her where he was . ''
`` I wonder if the wishbone she gave me would have done any good , '' cried Cecily suddenly .
`` I 'd forgotten all about it .
Oh , do you suppose it 's too late yet ? ''
`` There 's nothing in a wishbone , '' said Dan impatiently .
`` You ca n't be sure .
She TOLD me I 'd get the wish I made on it .
I 'm going to try whenever I get home . ''
`` It ca n't do any harm , anyhow , '' said Peter , `` but I 'm afraid you 've left it too late .
If Pat is dead even a witch 's wishbone ca n't bring him back to life . ''
`` I 'll never forgive myself for not thinking about it before , '' mourned Cecily .
As soon as we got home she flew to the little box upstairs where she kept her treasures , and brought therefrom the dry and brittle wishbone .
`` Peg told me how it must be done .
I 'm to hold the wishbone with both hands , like this , and walk backward , repeating the wish nine times .
And when I 've finished the ninth time I 'm to turn around nine times , from right to left , and then the wish will come true right away . ''
`` Do you expect to see Pat when you finish turning ? ''
said Dan skeptically .
None of us had any faith in the incantation except Peter , and , by infection , Cecily .
You never could tell what might happen .
Cecily took the wishbone in her trembling little hands and began her backward pacing , repeating solemnly , `` I wish that we may find Paddy alive , or else his body , so that we can bury him decently . ''
By the time Cecily had repeated this nine times we were all slightly infected with the desperate hope that something might come of it ; and when she had made her nine gyrations we looked eagerly down the sunset lane , half expecting to see our lost pet .
But we saw only the Awkward Man turning in at the gate .
This was almost as surprising as the sight of Pat himself would have been ; but there was no sign of Pat and hope flickered out in every breast but Peter 's .
`` You 've got to give the spell time to work , '' he expostulated .
`` If Pat was miles away when it was wished it would n't be reasonable to expect to see him right off . ''
But we of little faith had already lost that little , and it was a very disconsolate group which the Awkward Man presently joined .
He was smiling -- his rare , beautiful smile which only children ever saw -- and he lifted his hat to the girls with no trace of the shyness and awkwardness for which he was notorious .
`` Good evening , '' he said .
`` Have you little people lost a cat lately ? ''
We stared .
Peter said `` I knew it ! ''
in a triumphant pig 's whisper .
The Story Girl started eagerly forward .
`` Oh , Mr. Dale , can you tell us anything of Paddy ? ''
she cried .
`` A silver gray cat with black points and very fine marking ? ''
`` Yes , yes ! ''
`` Alive ? ''
`` Yes . ''
`` Well , does n't that beat the Dutch ! ''
muttered Dan .
But we were all crowding about the Awkward Man , demanding where and when he had found Paddy .
`` You 'd better come over to my place and make sure that it really is your cat , '' suggested the Awkward Man , `` and I 'll tell you all about finding him on the way .
I must warn you that he is pretty thin -- but I think he 'll pull through . ''
We obtained permission to go without much difficulty , although the spring evening was wearing late , for Aunt Janet said she supposed none of us would sleep a wink that night if we did n't .
A joyful procession followed the Awkward Man and the Story Girl across the gray , star-litten meadows to his home and through his pine-guarded gate .
`` You know that old barn of mine back in the woods ? ''
said the Awkward Man .
`` I go to it only about once in a blue moon .
There was an old barrel there , upside down , one side resting on a block of wood .
This morning I went to the barn to see about having some hay hauled home , and I had occasion to move the barrel .
I noticed that it seemed to have been moved slightly since my last visit , and it was now resting wholly on the floor .
I lifted it up -- and there was a cat lying on the floor under it .
I had heard you had lost yours and I took it this was your pet .
I was afraid he was dead at first .
He was lying there with his eyes closed ; but when I bent over him he opened them and gave a pitiful little mew ; or rather his mouth made the motion of a mew , for he was too weak to utter a sound . ''
`` Oh , poor , poor Paddy , '' said tender-hearted Cecily tearfully .
`` He could n't stand , so I carried him home and gave him just a little milk .
Fortunately he was able to lap it .
I gave him a little more at intervals all day , and when I left he was able to crawl around .
I think he 'll be all right , but you 'll have to be careful how you feed him for a few days .
Do n't let your hearts run away with your judgment and kill him with kindness . ''
`` Do you suppose any one put him under that barrel ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
`` No .
The barn was locked .
Nothing but a cat could get in .
I suppose he went under the barrel , perhaps in pursuit of a mouse , and somehow knocked it off the block and so imprisoned himself . ''
Paddy was sitting before the fire in the Awkward Man 's clean , bare kitchen .
Thin !
Why , he was literally skin and bone , and his fur was dull and lustreless .
It almost broke our hearts to see our beautiful Paddy brought so low .
`` Oh , how he must have suffered ! ''
moaned Cecily .
`` He 'll be as prosperous as ever in a week or two , '' said the Awkward Man kindly .
The Story Girl gathered Paddy up in her arms .
Most mellifluously did he purr as we crowded around to stroke him ; with friendly joy he licked our hands with his little red tongue ; poor Paddy was a thankful cat ; he was no longer lost , starving , imprisoned , helpless ; he was with his comrades once more and he was going home -- home to his old familiar haunts of orchard and dairy and granary , to his daily rations of new milk and cream , to the cosy corner of his own fireside .
We trooped home joyfully , the Story Girl in our midst carrying Paddy hugged against her shoulder .
Never did April stars look down on a happier band of travellers on the golden road .
There was a little gray wind out in the meadows that night , and it danced along beside us on viewless , fairy feet , and sang a delicate song of the lovely , waiting years , while the night laid her beautiful hands of blessing over the world .
`` You see what Peg 's wishbone did , '' said Peter triumphantly .
`` Now , look here , Peter , do n't talk nonsense , '' expostulated Dan .
`` The Awkward Man found Paddy this morning and had started to bring us word before Cecily ever thought of the wishbone .
Do you mean to say you believe he would n't have come walking up our lane just when he did if she had never thought of it ? ''
`` I mean to say that I would n't mind if I had several wishbones of the same kind , '' retorted Peter stubbornly .
`` Of course I do n't think the wishbone had really anything to do with our getting Paddy back , but I 'm glad I tried it , for all that , '' remarked Cecily in a tone of satisfaction .
`` Well , anyhow , we 've got Pat and that 's the main thing , '' said Felix .
`` And I hope it will be a lesson to him to stay home after this , '' commented Felicity .
`` They say the barrens are full of mayflowers , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Let us have a mayflower picnic tomorrow to celebrate Paddy 's safe return . ''
CHAPTER XII .
FLOWERS O ' MAY Accordingly we went a-maying , following the lure of dancing winds to a certain westward sloping hill lying under the spirit-like blue of spring skies , feathered over with lisping young pines and firs , which cupped little hollows and corners where the sunshine got in and never got out again , but stayed there and grew mellow , coaxing dear things to bloom long before they would dream of waking up elsewhere .
'T was there we found our mayflowers , after faithful seeking .
Mayflowers , you must know , never flaunt themselves ; they must be sought as becomes them , and then they will yield up their treasures to the seeker -- clusters of star-white and dawn-pink that have in them the very soul of all the springs that ever were , re-incarnated in something it seems gross to call perfume , so exquisite and spiritual is it .
We wandered gaily over the hill , calling to each other with laughter and jest , getting parted and delightfully lost in that little pathless wilderness , and finding each other unexpectedly in nooks and dips and sunny silences , where the wind purred and gentled and went softly .
When the sun began to hang low , sending great fan-like streamers of radiance up to the zenith , we foregathered in a tiny , sequestered valley , full of young green fern , lying in the shadow of a wooded hill .
In it was a shallow pool -- a glimmering green sheet of water on whose banks nymphs might dance as blithely as ever they did on Argive hill or in Cretan dale .
There we sat and stripped the faded leaves and stems from our spoil , making up the blossoms into bouquets to fill our baskets with sweetness .
The Story Girl twisted a spray of divinest pink in her brown curls , and told us an old legend of a beautiful Indian maiden who died of a broken heart when the first snows of winter were falling , because she believed her long-absent lover was false .
But he came back in the spring time from his long captivity ; and when he heard that she was dead he sought her grave to mourn her , and lo , under the dead leaves of the old year he found sweet sprays of a blossom never seen before , and knew that it was a message of love and remembrance from his dark-eyed sweet-heart .
`` Except in stories Indian girls are called squaws , '' remarked practical Dan , tying his mayflowers together in one huge , solid , cabbage-like bunch .
Not for Dan the bother of filling his basket with the loose sprays , mingled with feathery elephant 's - ears and trails of creeping spruce , as the rest of us , following the Story Girl 's example , did .
Nor would he admit that ours looked any better than his .
`` I like things of one kind together .
I do n't like them mixed , '' he said .
`` You have no taste , '' said Felicity .
`` Except in my mouth , best beloved , '' responded Dan .
`` You do think you are so smart , '' retorted Felicity , flushing with anger .
`` Do n't quarrel this lovely day , '' implored Cecily .
`` Nobody 's quarrelling , Sis .
I ai n't a bit mad .
It 's Felicity .
What on earth is that at the bottom of your basket , Cecily ? ''
`` It 's a History of the Reformation in France , '' confessed poor Cecily , `` by a man named D-a-u-b-i-g-n-y .
I ca n't pronounce it .
I heard Mr. Marwood saying it was a book everyone ought to read , so I began it last Sunday .
I brought it along today to read when I got tired picking flowers .
I 'd ever so much rather have brought Ester Reid .
There 's so much in the history I ca n't understand , and it is so dreadful to read of people being burned to death .
But I felt I OUGHT to read it . ''
`` Do you really think your mind has improved any ? ''
asked Sara Ray seriously , wreathing the handle of her basket with creeping spruce .
`` No , I 'm afraid it has n't one bit , '' answered Cecily sadly .
`` I feel that I have n't succeeded very well in keeping my resolutions . ''
`` I 've kept mine , '' said Felicity complacently .
`` It 's easy to keep just one , '' retorted Cecily , rather resentfully .
`` It 's not so easy to think beautiful thoughts , '' answered Felicity .
`` It 's the easiest thing in the world , '' said the Story Girl , tiptoeing to the edge of the pool to peep at her own arch reflection , as some nymph left over from the golden age might do .
`` Beautiful thoughts just crowd into your mind at times . ''
`` Oh , yes , AT TIMES .
But that 's different from thinking one REGULARLY at a given hour .
And mother is always calling up the stairs for me to hurry up and get dressed , and it 's VERY hard sometimes . ''
`` That 's so , '' conceded the Story Girl .
`` There ARE times when I ca n't think anything but gray thoughts .
Then , other days , I think pink and blue and gold and purple and rainbow thoughts all the time . ''
`` The idea !
As if thoughts were coloured , '' giggled Felicity .
`` Oh , they are ! ''
cried the Story Girl .
`` Why , I can always SEE the colour of any thought I think .
Ca n't you ? ''
`` I never heard of such a thing , '' declared Felicity , `` and I do n't believe it .
I believe you are just making that up . ''
`` Indeed I 'm not .
Why , I always supposed everyone thought in colours .
It must be very tiresome if you do n't . ''
`` When you think of me what colour is it ? ''
asked Peter curiously .
`` Yellow , '' answered the Story Girl promptly .
`` And Cecily is a sweet pink , like those mayflowers , and Sara Ray is very pale blue , and Dan is red and Felix is yellow , like Peter , and Bev is striped . ''
`` What colour am I ? ''
asked Felicity , amid the laughter at my expense .
`` You 're -- you 're like a rainbow , '' answered the Story Girl rather reluctantly .
She had to be honest , but she would rather not have complimented Felicity .
`` And you need n't laugh at Bev .
His stripes are beautiful .
It is n't HE that is striped .
It 's just the THOUGHT of him .
Peg Bowen is a queer sort of yellowish green and the Awkward Man is lilac .
Aunt Olivia is pansy-purple mixed with gold , and Uncle Roger is navy blue . ''
`` I never heard such nonsense , '' declared Felicity .
The rest of us were rather inclined to agree with her for once .
We thought the Story Girl was making fun of us .
But I believe she really had a strange gift of thinking in colours .
In later years , when we were grown up , she told me of it again .
She said that everything had colour in her thought ; the months of the year ran through all the tints of the spectrum , the days of the week were arrayed as Solomon in his glory , morning was golden , noon orange , evening crystal blue , and night violet .
Every idea came to her mind robed in its own especial hue .
Perhaps that was why her voice and words had such a charm , conveying to the listeners ' perception such fine shadings of meaning and tint and music .
`` Well , let 's go and have something to eat , '' suggested Dan .
`` What colour is eating , Sara ? ''
`` Golden brown , just the colour of a molasses cooky , '' laughed the Story Girl .
We sat on the ferny bank of the pool and ate of the generous basket Aunt Janet had provided , with appetites sharpened by the keen spring air and our wilderness rovings .
Felicity had made some very nice sandwiches of ham which we all appreciated except Dan , who declared he did n't like things minced up and dug out of the basket a chunk of boiled pork which he proceeded to saw up with a jack-knife and devour with gusto .
`` I told ma to put this in for me .
There 's some CHEW to it , '' he said .
`` You are not a bit refined , '' commented Felicity .
`` Not a morsel , my love , '' grinned Dan .
`` You make me think of a story I heard Uncle Roger telling about Cousin Annetta King , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Great-uncle Jeremiah King used to live where Uncle Roger lives now , when Grandfather King was alive and Uncle Roger was a boy .
In those days it was thought rather coarse for a young lady to have too hearty an appetite , and she was more admired if she was delicate about what she ate .
Cousin Annetta set out to be very refined indeed .
She pretended to have no appetite at all .
One afternoon she was invited to tea at Grandfather King 's when they had some special company -- people from Charlottetown .
Cousin Annetta said she could hardly eat anything .
` You know , Uncle Abraham , ' she said , in a very affected , fine-young-lady voice , ' I really hardly eat enough to keep a bird alive .
Mother says she wonders how I continue to exist . '
And she picked and pecked until Grandfather King declared he would like to throw something at her .
After tea Cousin Annetta went home , and just about dark Grandfather King went over to Uncle Jeremiah 's on an errand .
As he passed the open , lighted pantry window he happened to glance in , and what do you think he saw ?
Delicate Cousin Annetta standing at the dresser , with a big loaf of bread beside her and a big platterful of cold , boiled pork in front of her ; and Annetta was hacking off great chunks , like Dan there , and gobbling them down as if she was starving .
Grandfather King could n't resist the temptation .
He stepped up to the window and said , ` I 'm glad your appetite has come back to you , Annetta .
Your mother need n't worry about your continuing to exist as long as you can tuck away fat , salt pork in that fashion . '
`` Cousin Annetta never forgave him , but she never pretended to be delicate again . ''
`` The Jews do n't believe in eating pork , '' said Peter .
`` I 'm glad I 'm not a Jew and I guess Cousin Annetta was too , '' said Dan .
`` I like bacon , but I can never look at a pig without wondering if they were ever intended to be eaten , '' remarked Cecily naively .
When we finished our lunch the barrens were already wrapping themselves in a dim , blue dusk and falling upon rest in dell and dingle .
But out in the open there was still much light of a fine emerald-golden sort and the robins whistled us home in it .
`` Horns of Elfland '' never sounded more sweetly around hoary castle and ruined fane than those vesper calls of the robins from the twilight spruce woods and across green pastures lying under the pale radiance of a young moon .
When we reached home we found that Miss Reade had been up to the hill farm on an errand and was just leaving .
The Story Girl went for a walk with her and came back with an important expression on her face .
`` You look as if you had a story to tell , '' said Felix .
`` One is growing .
It is n't a whole story yet , '' answered the Story Girl mysteriously .
`` What is it ? ''
asked Cecily .
`` I ca n't tell you till it 's fully grown , '' said the Story Girl .
`` But I 'll tell you a pretty little story the Awkward Man told us -- told me -- tonight .
He was walking in his garden as we went by , looking at his tulip beds .
His tulips are up ever so much higher than ours , and I asked him how he managed to coax them along so early .
And he said HE did n't do it -- it was all the work of the pixies who lived in the woods across the brook .
There were more pixy babies than usual this spring , and the mothers were in a hurry for the cradles .
The tulips are the pixy babies ' cradles , it seems .
The mother pixies come out of the woods at twilight and rock their tiny little brown babies to sleep in the tulip cups .
That is the reason why tulip blooms last so much longer than other blossoms .
The pixy babies must have a cradle until they are grown up .
They grow very fast , you see , and the Awkward Man says on a spring evening , when the tulips are out , you can hear the sweetest , softest , clearest , fairy music in his garden , and it is the pixy folk singing as they rock the pixy babies to sleep . ''
`` Then the Awkward Man says what is n't true , '' said Felicity severely .
CHAPTER XIII .
A SURPRISING ANNOUNCEMENT `` Nothing exciting has happened for ever so long , '' said the Story Girl discontentedly , one late May evening , as we lingered under the wonderful white bloom of the cherry trees .
There was a long row of them in the orchard , with a Lombardy poplar at either end , and a hedge of lilacs behind .
When the wind blew over them all the spicy breezes of Ceylon 's isle were never sweeter .
It was a time of wonder and marvel , of the soft touch of silver rain on greening fields , of the incredible delicacy of young leaves , of blossom in field and garden and wood .
The whole world bloomed in a flush and tremor of maiden loveliness , instinct with all the evasive , fleeting charm of spring and girlhood and young morning .
We felt and enjoyed it all without understanding or analyzing it .
It was enough to be glad and young with spring on the golden road .
`` I do n't like excitement very much , '' said Cecily .
`` It makes one so tired .
I 'm sure it was exciting enough when Paddy was missing , but we did n't find that very pleasant . ''
`` No , but it was interesting , '' returned the Story Girl thoughtfully .
`` After all , I believe I 'd rather be miserable than dull . ''
`` I would n't then , '' said Felicity decidedly .
`` And you need never be dull when you have work to do .
` Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do ! ' ''
`` Well , mischief is interesting , '' laughed the Story Girl .
`` And I thought you did n't think it lady-like to speak of that person , Felicity ? ''
`` It 's all right if you call him by his polite name , '' said Felicity stiffly .
`` Why does the Lombardy poplar hold its branches straight up in the air like that , when all the other poplars hold theirs out or hang them down ? ''
interjected Peter , who had been gazing intently at the slender spire showing darkly against the fine blue eastern sky .
`` Because it grows that way , '' said Felicity .
`` Oh I know a story about that , '' cried the Story Girl .
`` Once upon a time an old man found the pot of gold at the rainbow 's end .
There IS a pot there , it is said , but it is very hard to find because you can never get to the rainbow 's end before it vanishes from your sight .
But this old man found it , just at sunset , when Iris , the guardian of the rainbow gold , happened to be absent .
As he was a long way from home , and the pot was very big and heavy , he decided to hide it until morning and then get one of his sons to go with him and help him carry it .
So he hid it under the boughs of the sleeping poplar tree .
`` When Iris came back she missed the pot of gold and of course she was in a sad way about it .
She sent Mercury , the messenger of the gods , to look for it , for she did n't dare leave the rainbow again , lest somebody should run off with that too .
Mercury asked all the trees if they had seen the pot of gold , and the elm , oak and pine pointed to the poplar and said , '' ` The poplar can tell you where it is . ' ''
` How can I tell you where it is ? '
cried the poplar , and she held up all her branches in surprise , just as we hold up our hands -- and down tumbled the pot of gold .
The poplar was amazed and indignant , for she was a very honest tree .
She stretched her boughs high above her head and declared that she would always hold them like that , so that nobody could hide stolen gold under them again .
And she taught all the little poplars she knew to stand the same way , and that is why Lombardy poplars always do .
But the aspen poplar leaves are always shaking , even on the very calmest day .
And do you know why ? ''
And then she told us the old legend that the cross on which the Saviour of the world suffered was made of aspen poplar wood and so never again could its poor , shaken , shivering leaves know rest or peace .
There was an aspen in the orchard , the very embodiment of youth and spring in its litheness and symmetry .
Its little leaves were hanging tremulously , not yet so fully blown as to hide its development of bough and twig , making poetry against the spiritual tints of a spring sunset .
`` It does look sad , '' said Peter , `` but it is a pretty tree , and it was n't its fault . ''
`` There 's a heavy dew and it 's time we stopped talking nonsense and went in , '' decreed Felicity .
`` If we do n't we 'll all have a cold , and then we 'll be miserable enough , but it wo n't be very exciting . ''
`` All the same , I wish something exciting would happen , '' finished the Story Girl , as we walked up through the orchard , peopled with its nun-like shadows .
`` There 's a new moon tonight , so may be you 'll get your wish , '' said Peter .
`` My Aunt Jane did n't believe there was anything in the moon business , but you never can tell . ''
The Story Girl did get her wish .
Something happened the very next day .
She joined us in the afternoon with a quite indescribable expression on her face , compounded of triumph , anticipation , and regret .
Her eyes betrayed that she had been crying , but in them shone a chastened exultation .
Whatever the Story Girl mourned over it was evident she was not without hope .
`` I have some news to tell you , '' she said importantly .
`` Can you guess what it is ? ''
We could n't and would n't try .
`` Tell us right off , '' implored Felix .
`` You look as if it was something tremendous . ''
`` So it is .
Listen -- Aunt Olivia is going to be married . ''
We stared in blank amazement .
Peg Bowen 's hint had faded from our minds and we had never put much faith in it .
`` Aunt Olivia !
I do n't believe it , '' cried Felicity flatly .
`` Who told you ? ''
`` Aunt Olivia herself .
So it is perfectly true .
I 'm awfully sorry in one way -- but oh , wo n't it be splendid to have a real wedding in the family ?
She 's going to have a big wedding -- and I am to be bridesmaid . ''
`` I should n't think you were old enough to be a bridesmaid , '' said Felicity sharply .
`` I 'm nearly fifteen .
Anyway , Aunt Olivia says I have to be . ''
`` Who 's she going to marry ? ''
asked Cecily , gathering herself together after the shock , and finding that the world was going on just the same .
`` His name is Dr. Seton and he is a Halifax man .
She met him when she was at Uncle Edward 's last summer .
They 've been engaged ever since .
The wedding is to be the third week in June . ''
`` And our school concert comes off the next week , '' complained Felicity .
`` Why do things always come together like that ?
And what are you going to do if Aunt Olivia is going away ? ''
`` I 'm coming to live at your house , '' answered the Story Girl rather timidly .
She did not know how Felicity might like that .
But Felicity took it rather well .
`` You 've been here most of the time anyhow , so it 'll just be that you 'll sleep and eat here , too .
But what 's to become of Uncle Roger ? ''
`` Aunt Olivia says he 'll have to get married , too .
But Uncle Roger says he 'd rather hire a housekeeper than marry one , because in the first case he could turn her off if he did n't like her , but in the second case he could n't . ''
`` There 'll be a lot of cooking to do for the wedding , '' reflected Felicity in a tone of satisfaction .
`` I s ` pose Aunt Olivia will want some rusks made .
I hope she has plenty of tooth-powder laid in , '' said Dan .
`` It 's a pity you do n't use some of that tooth-powder you 're so fond of talking about yourself , '' retorted Felicity .
`` When anyone has a mouth the size of yours the teeth show so plain . ''
`` I brush my teeth every Sunday , '' asseverated Dan .
`` Every Sunday !
You ought to brush them every DAY . ''
`` Did anyone ever hear such nonsense ? ''
demanded Dan sincerely .
`` Well , you know , it really does say so in the Family Guide , '' said Cecily quietly .
`` Then the Family Guide people must have lots more spare time than I have , '' retorted Dan contemptuously .
`` Just think , the Story Girl will have her name in the papers if she 's bridesmaid , '' marvelled Sara Ray .
`` In the Halifax papers , too , '' added Felix , `` since Dr. Seton is a Halifax man .
What is his first name ? ''
`` Robert . ''
`` And will we have to call him Uncle Robert ? ''
`` Not until he 's married to her .
Then we will , of course . ''
`` I hope your Aunt Olivia wo n't disappear before the ceremony , '' remarked Sara Ray , who was surreptitiously reading `` The Vanquished Bride , '' by Valeria H. Montague in the Family Guide .
`` I hope Dr. Seton wo n't fail to show up , like your cousin Rachel Ward 's beau , '' said Peter .
`` That makes me think of another story I read the other day about Great-uncle Andrew King and Aunt Georgina , '' laughed the Story Girl .
`` It happened eighty years ago .
It was a very stormy winter and the roads were bad .
Uncle Andrew lived in Carlisle , and Aunt Georgina -- she was Miss Georgina Matheson then -- lived away up west , so he could n't get to see her very often .
They agreed to be married that winter , but Georgina could n't set the day exactly because her brother , who lived in Ontario , was coming home for a visit , and she wanted to be married while he was home .
So it was arranged that she was to write Uncle Andrew and tell him what day to come .
She did , and she told him to come on a Tuesday .
But her writing was n't very good and poor Uncle Andrew thought she wrote Thursday .
So on Thursday he drove all the way to Georgina 's home to be married .
It was forty miles and a bitter cold day .
But it was n't any colder than the reception he got from Georgina .
She was out in the porch , with her head tied up in a towel , picking geese .
She had been all ready Tuesday , and her friends and the minister were there , and the wedding supper prepared .
But there was no bridegroom and Georgina was furious .
Nothing Uncle Andrew could say would appease her .
She would n't listen to a word of explanation , but told him to go , and never show his nose there again .
So poor Uncle Andrew had to go ruefully home , hoping that she would relent later on , because he was really very much in love with her . ''
`` And did she ? ''
queried Felicity .
`` She did .
Thirteen years exactly from that day they were married .
It took her just that long to forgive him . ''
`` It took her just that long to find out she could n't get anybody else , '' said Dan , cynically .
CHAPTER XIV .
A PRODIGAL RETURNS Aunt Olivia and the Story Girl lived in a whirlwind of dressmaking after that , and enjoyed it hugely .
Cecily and Felicity also had to have new dresses for the great event , and they talked of little else for a fortnight .
Cecily declared that she hated to go to sleep because she was sure to dream that she was at Aunt Olivia 's wedding in her old faded gingham dress and a ragged apron .
`` And no shoes or stockings , '' she added , `` and I ca n't move , and everyone walks past and looks at my feet . ''
`` That 's only in a dream , '' mourned Sara Ray , `` but I may have to wear my last summer 's white dress to the wedding .
It 's too short , but ma says it 's plenty good for this summer .
I 'll be so mortified if I have to wear it . ''
`` I 'd rather not go at all than wear a dress that was n't nice , '' said Felicity pleasantly .
`` I 'd go to the wedding if I had to go in my school dress , '' cried Sara Ray .
`` I 've never been to anything .
I would n't miss it for the world . ''
`` My Aunt Jane always said that if you were neat and tidy it did n't matter whether you were dressed fine or not , '' said Peter .
`` I 'm sick and tired of hearing about your Aunt Jane , '' said Felicity crossly .
Peter looked grieved but held his peace .
Felicity was very hard on him that spring , but his loyalty never wavered .
Everything she said or did was right in Peter 's eyes .
`` It 's all very well to be neat and tidy , '' said Sara Ray , `` but I like a little style too . ''
`` I think you 'll find your mother will get you a new dress after all , '' comforted Cecily .
`` Anyway , nobody will notice you because everyone will be looking at the bride .
Aunt Olivia will make a lovely bride .
Just think how sweet she 'll look in a white silk dress and a floating veil . ''
`` She says she is going to have the ceremony performed out here in the orchard under her own tree , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Wo n't that be romantic ?
It almost makes me feel like getting married myself . ''
`` What a way to talk , '' rebuked Felicity , `` and you only fifteen . ''
`` Lots of people have been married at fifteen , '' laughed the Story Girl .
`` Lady Jane Gray was . ''
`` But you are always saying that Valeria H. Montague 's stories are silly and not true to life , so that is no argument , '' retorted Felicity , who knew more about cooking than about history , and evidently imagined that the Lady Jane Gray was one of Valeria 's titled heroines .
The wedding was a perennial source of conversation among us in those days ; but presently its interest palled for a time in the light of another quite tremendous happening .
One Saturday night Peter 's mother called to take him home with her for Sunday .
She had been working at Mr. James Frewen 's , and Mr. Frewen was driving her home .
We had never seen Peter 's mother before , and we looked at her with discreet curiosity .
She was a plump , black-eyed little woman , neat as a pin , but with a rather tired and care-worn face that looked as if it should have been rosy and jolly .
Life had been a hard battle for her , and I rather think that her curly-headed little lad was all that had kept heart and spirit in her .
Peter went home with her and returned Sunday evening .
We were in the orchard sitting around the Pulpit Stone , where we had , according to the custom of the households of King , been learning our golden texts and memory verses for the next Sunday School lesson .
Paddy , grown sleek and handsome again , was sitting on the stone itself , washing his jowls .
Peter joined us with a very queer expression on his face .
He seemed bursting with some news which he wanted to tell and yet hardly liked to .
`` Why are you looking so mysterious , Peter ? ''
demanded the Story Girl .
`` What do you think has happened ? ''
asked Peter solemnly .
`` What has ? ''
`` My father has come home , '' answered Peter .
The announcement produced all the sensation he could have wished .
We crowded around him in excitement .
`` Peter !
When did he come back ? ''
`` Saturday night .
He was there when ma and I got home .
It give her an awful turn .
I did n't know him at first , of course . ''
`` Peter Craig , I believe you are glad your father has come back , '' cried the Story Girl . ''
` Course I 'm glad , '' retorted Peter .
`` And after you saying you did n't want ever to see him again , '' said Felicity .
`` You just wait .
You have n't heard my story yet .
I would n't have been glad to see father if he 'd come back the same as he went away .
But he is a changed man .
He happened to go into a revival meeting one night this spring and he got converted .
And he 's come home to stay , and he says he 's never going to drink another drop , but he 's going to look after his family .
Ma is n't to do any more washing for nobody but him and me , and I 'm not to be a hired boy any longer .
He says I can stay with your Uncle Roger till the fall 'cause I promised I would , but after that I 'm to stay home and go to school right along and learn to be whatever I 'd like to be .
I tell you it made me feel queer .
Everything seemed to be upset .
But he gave ma forty dollars -- every cent he had -- so I guess he really is converted . ''
`` I hope it will last , I 'm sure , '' said Felicity .
She did not say it nastily , however .
We were all glad for Peter 's sake , though a little dizzy over the unexpectedness of it all .
`` This is what I 'D like to know , '' said Peter .
`` How did Peg Bowen know my father was coming home ?
Do n't you tell me she is n't a witch after that . ''
`` And she knew about your Aunt Olivia 's wedding , too , '' added Sara Ray .
`` Oh , well , she likely heard that from some one .
Grown up folks talk things over long before they tell them to children , '' said Cecily .
`` Well , she could n't have heard father was coming home from any one , '' answered Peter .
`` He was converted up in Maine , where nobody knew him , and he never told a soul he was coming till he got here .
No , you can believe what you like , but I 'm satisfied at last that Peg is a witch and that skull of hers does tell her things .
She told me father was coming home and he come ! ''
`` How happy you must be , '' sighed Sara Ray romantically .
`` It 's just like that story in the Family Guide , where the missing earl comes home to his family just as the Countess and Lady Violetta are going to be turned out by the cruel heir . ''
Felicity sniffed .
`` There 's some difference , I guess .
The earl had been imprisoned for years in a loathsome dungeon . ''
Perhaps Peter 's father had too , if we but realized it -- imprisoned in the dungeon of his own evil appetites and habits , than which none could be more loathsome .
But a Power , mightier than the forces of evil , had struck off his fetters and led him back to his long-forfeited liberty and light .
And no countess or lady of high degree could have welcomed a long-lost earl home more joyfully than the tired little washerwoman had welcomed the erring husband of her youth .
But in Peter 's ointment of joy there was a fly or two .
So very , very few things are flawless in this world , even on the golden road .
`` Of course I 'm awful glad that father has come back and that ma wo n't have to wash any more , '' he said with a sigh , `` but there are two things that kind of worry me .
My Aunt Jane always said that it did n't do any good to worry , and I s ` pose it do n't , but it 's kind of a relief . ''
`` What 's worrying you ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Well , for one thing I 'll feel awful bad to go away from you all .
I 'll miss you just dreadful , and I wo n't even be able to go to the same school .
I 'll have to go to Markdale school . ''
`` But you must come and see us often , '' said Felicity graciously .
`` Markdale is n't so far away , and you could spend every other Saturday afternoon with us anyway . ''
Peter 's black eyes filled with adoring gratitude .
`` That 's so kind of you , Felicity .
I 'll come as often as I can , of course ; but it wo n't be the same as being around with you all the time .
The other thing is even worse .
You see , it was a Methodist revival father got converted in , and so of course he joined the Methodist church .
He was n't anything before .
He used to say he was a Nothingarian and lived up to it -- kind of bragging like .
But he 's a strong Methodist now , and is going to go to Markdale Methodist church and pay to the salary .
Now what 'll he say when I tell him I 'm a Presbyterian ? ''
`` You have n't told him , yet ? ''
asked the Story Girl .
`` No , I did n't dare .
I was scared he 'd say I 'd have to be a Methodist . ''
`` Well , Methodists are pretty near as good as Presbyterians , '' said Felicity , with the air of one making a great concession .
`` I guess they 're every bit as good , '' retorted Peter .
`` But that ai n't the point .
I 've got to be a Presbyterian , 'cause I stick to a thing when I once decide it .
But I expect father will be mad when he finds out . ''
`` If he 's converted he ought n't to get mad , '' said Dan .
`` Well , lots o ' people do .
But if he is n't mad he 'll be sorry , and that 'll be even worse , for a Presbyterian I 'm bound to be .
But I expect it will make things unpleasant . ''
`` You need n't tell him anything about it , '' advised Felicity .
`` Just keep quiet and go to the Methodist church until you get big , and then you can go where you please . ''
`` No , that would n't be honest , '' said Peter sturdily .
`` My Aunt Jane always said it was best to be open and above board in everything , and especially in religion .
So I 'll tell father right out , but I 'll wait a few weeks so as not to spoil things for ma too soon if he acts up . ''
Peter was not the only one who had secret cares .
Sara Ray was beginning to feel worried over her looks .
I heard her and Cecily talking over their troubles one evening while I was weeding the onion bed and they were behind the hedge knitting lace .
I did not mean to eavesdrop .
I supposed they knew I was there until Cecily overwhelmed me with indignation later on .
`` I 'm so afraid , Cecily , that I 'm going to be homely all my life , '' said poor Sara with a tremble in her voice .
`` You can stand being ugly when you are young if you have any hope of being better looking when you grow up .
But I 'm getting worse .
Aunt Mary says I 'm going to be the very image of Aunt Matilda .
And Aunt Matilda is as homely as she can be .
It is n't '' -- and poor Sara sighed -- `` a very cheerful prospect .
If I am ugly nobody will ever want to marry me , and , '' concluded Sara candidly , `` I do n't want to be an old maid . ''
`` But plenty of girls get married who are n't a bit pretty , '' comforted Cecily .
`` Besides , you are real nice looking at times , Sara .
I think you are going to have a nice figure . ''
`` But just look at my hands , '' moaned Sara .
`` They 're simply covered with warts . ''
`` Oh , the warts will all disappear before you grow up , '' said Cecily .
`` But they wo n't disappear before the school concert .
How am I to get up there and recite ?
You know there is one line in my recitation , ` She waved her lily-white hand , ' and I have to wave mine when I say it .
Fancy waving a lily-white hand all covered with warts .
I 've tried every remedy I ever heard of , but nothing does any good .
Judy Pineau said if I rubbed them with toad-spit it would take them away for sure .
But how am I to get any toad-spit ? ''
`` It does n't sound like a very nice remedy , anyhow , '' shuddered Cecily .
`` I 'd rather have the warts .
But do you know , I believe if you did n't cry so much over every little thing , you 'd be ever so much better looking .
Crying spoils your eyes and makes the end of your nose red . ''
`` I ca n't help crying , '' protested Sara .
`` My feelings are so very sensitive .
I 've given up trying to keep THAT resolution . ''
`` Well , men do n't like cry-babies , '' said Cecily sagely .
Cecily had a good deal of Mother Eve 's wisdom tucked away in that smooth , brown head of hers .
`` Cecily , do you ever intend to be married ? ''
asked Sara in a confidential tone .
`` Goodness ! ''
cried Cecily , quite shocked .
`` It will be time enough when I grow up to think of that , Sara . ''
`` I should think you 'd have to think of it now , with Cyrus Brisk as crazy after you as he is . ''
`` I wish Cyrus Brisk was at the bottom of the Red Sea , '' exclaimed Cecily , goaded into a spurt of temper by mention of the detested name .
`` What has Cyrus been doing now ? ''
asked Felicity , coming around the corner of the hedge .
`` Doing NOW !
It 's ALL the time .
He just worries me to death , '' returned Cecily angrily .
`` He keeps writing me letters and putting them in my desk or in my reader .
I never answer one of them , but he keeps on .
And in the last one , mind you , he said he 'd do something desperate right off if I would n't promise to marry him when we grew up . ''
`` Just think , Cecily , you 've had a proposal already , '' said Sara Ray in an awe-struck tone .
`` But he has n't done anything desperate yet , and that was last week , '' commented Felicity , with a toss of her head .
`` He sent me a lock of his hair and wanted one of mine in exchange , '' continued Cecily indignantly .
`` I tell you I sent his back to him pretty quick . ''
`` Did you never answer any of his letters ? ''
asked Sara Ray .
`` No , indeed !
I guess not ! ''
`` Do you know , '' said Felicity , `` I believe if you wrote him just once and told him your exact opinion of him in good plain English it would cure him of his nonsense . ''
`` I could n't do that .
I have n't enough spunk , '' confessed Cecily with a blush .
`` But I 'll tell you what I did do once .
He wrote me a long letter last week .
It was just awfully SOFT , and every other word was spelled wrong .
He even spelled baking soda , ` bacon soda ! ' ''
`` What on earth had he to say about baking soda in a love-letter ? ''
asked Felicity .
`` Oh , he said his mother sent him to the store for some and he forgot it because he was thinking about me .
Well , I just took his letter and wrote in all the words , spelled right , above the wrong ones , in red ink , just as Mr. Perkins makes us do with our dictation exercises , and sent it back to him .
I thought maybe he 'd feel insulted and stop writing to me . ''
`` And did he ? ''
`` No , he did n't .
It is my opinion you ca n't insult Cyrus Brisk .
He is too thick-skinned .
He wrote another letter , and thanked me for correcting his mistakes , and said it made him feel glad because it showed I was beginning to take an interest in him when I wanted him to spell better .
Did you ever ?
Miss Marwood says it is wrong to hate anyone , but I do n't care , I hate Cyrus Brisk . ''
`` Mrs. Cyrus Brisk WOULD be an awful name , '' giggled Felicity .
`` Flossie Brisk says Cyrus is ruining all the trees on his father 's place cutting your name on them , '' said Sara Ray .
`` His father told him he would whip him if he did n't stop , but Cyrus keeps right on .
He told Flossie it relieved his feelings .
Flossie says he cut yours and his together on the birch tree in front of the parlour window , and a row of hearts around them . ''
`` Just where every visitor can see them , I suppose , '' lamented Cecily .
`` He just worries my life out .
And what I mind most of all is , he sits and looks at me in school with such melancholy , reproachful eyes when he ought to be working sums .
I wo n't look at him , but I FEEL him staring at me , and it makes me so nervous . ''
`` They say his mother was out of her mind at one time , '' said Felicity .
I do not think Felicity was quite well pleased that Cyrus should have passed over her rose-red prettiness to set his affections on that demure elf of a Cecily .
She did not want the allegiance of Cyrus in the least , but it was something of a slight that he had not wanted her to want it .
`` And he sends me pieces of poetry he cuts out of the papers , '' Cecily went on , `` with lots of the lines marked with a lead pencil .
Yesterday he put one in his letter , and this is what he marked : '' ` If you will not relent to me Then must I learn to know Darkness alone till life be flown .
Here -- I have the piece in my sewing-bag -- I 'll read it all to you . ''
Those three graceless girls read the sentimental rhyme and giggled over it .
Poor Cyrus !
His young affections were sadly misplaced .
But after all , though Cecily never relented towards him , he did not condemn himself to darkness alone till life was flown .
Quite early in life he wedded a stout , rosy , buxom lass , the very antithesis of his first love ; he prospered in his undertakings , raised a large and respectable family , and was eventually appointed a Justice of the Peace .
Which was all very sensible of Cyrus .
CHAPTER XV .
THE RAPE OF THE LOCK June was crowded full of interest that year .
We gathered in with its sheaf of fragrant days the choicest harvest of childhood .
Things happened right along .
Cecily declared she hated to go to sleep for fear she might miss something .
There were so many dear delights along the golden road to give us pleasure -- the earth dappled with new blossom , the dance of shadows in the fields , the rustling , rain-wet ways of the woods , the faint fragrance in meadow lanes , liltings of birds and croon of bees in the old orchard , windy pipings on the hills , sunset behind the pines , limpid dews filling primrose cups , crescent moons through darklings boughs , soft nights alight with blinking stars .
We enjoyed all these boons , unthinkingly and light-heartedly , as children do .
And besides these , there was the absorbing little drama of human life which was being enacted all around us , and in which each of us played a satisfying part -- the gay preparations for Aunt Olivia 's mid-June wedding , the excitement of practising for the concert with which our school-teacher , Mr. Perkins , had elected to close the school year , and Cecily 's troubles with Cyrus Brisk , which furnished unholy mirth for the rest of us , though Cecily could not see the funny side of it at all .
Matters went from bad to worse in the case of the irrepressible Cyrus .
He continued to shower Cecily with notes , the spelling of which showed no improvement ; he worried the life out of her by constantly threatening to fight Willy Fraser -- although , as Felicity sarcastically pointed out , he never did it .
`` But I 'm always afraid he will , '' said Cecily , `` and it would be such a DISGRACE to have two boys fighting over me in school . ''
`` You must have encouraged Cyrus a little in the beginning or he 'd never have been so persevering , '' said Felicity unjustly .
`` I never did ! ''
cried outraged Cecily .
`` You know very well , Felicity King , that I hated Cyrus Brisk ever since the very first time I saw his big , fat , red face .
So there ! ''
`` Felicity is just jealous because Cyrus did n't take a notion to her instead of you , Sis , '' said Dan .
`` Talk sense ! ''
snapped Felicity .
`` If I did you would n't understand me , sweet little sister , '' rejoined aggravating Dan .
Finally Cyrus crowned his iniquities by stealing the denied lock of Cecily 's hair .
One sunny afternoon in school , Cecily and Kitty Marr asked and received permission to sit out on the side bench before the open window , where the cool breeze swept in from the green fields beyond .
To sit on this bench was always considered a treat , and was only allowed as a reward of merit ; but Cecily and Kitty had another reason for wishing to sit there .
Kitty had read in a magazine that sun-baths were good for the hair ; so both she and Cecily tossed their long braids over the window-sill and let them hang there in the broiling sun-shine .
And while Cecily sat thus , diligently working a fraction sum on her slate , that base Cyrus asked permission to go out , having previously borrowed a pair of scissors from one of the big girls who did fancy work at the noon recess .
Outside , Cyrus sneaked up close to the window and cut off a piece of Cecily 's hair .
This rape of the lock did not produce quite such terrible consequences as the more famous one in Pope 's poem , but Cecily 's soul was no less agitated than Belinda 's .
She cried all the way home from school about it , and only checked her tears when Dan declared he 'd fight Cyrus and make him give it up .
`` Oh , no , You must n't . ''
said Cecily , struggling with her sobs .
`` I wo n't have you fighting on my account for anything .
And besides , he 'd likely lick you -- he 's so big and rough .
And the folks at home might find out all about it , and Uncle Roger would never give me any peace , and mother would be cross , for she 'd never believe it was n't my fault .
It would n't be so bad if he 'd only taken a little , but he cut a great big chunk right off the end of one of the braids .
Just look at it .
I 'll have to cut the other to make them fair -- and they 'll look so awful stubby . ''
But Cyrus ' acquirement of the chunk of hair was his last triumph .
His downfall was near ; and , although it involved Cecily in a most humiliating experience , over which she cried half the following night , in the end she confessed it was worth undergoing just to get rid of Cyrus .
Mr. Perkins was an exceedingly strict disciplinarian .
No communication of any sort was permitted between his pupils during school hours .
Anyone caught violating this rule was promptly punished by the infliction of one of the weird penances for which Mr. Perkins was famous , and which were generally far worse than ordinary whipping .
One day in school Cyrus sent a letter across to Cecily .
Usually he left his effusions in her desk , or between the leaves of her books ; but this time it was passed over to her under cover of the desk through the hands of two or three scholars .
Just as Em Frewen held it over the aisle Mr. Perkins wheeled around from his station before the blackboard and caught her in the act .
`` Bring that here , Emmeline , '' he commanded .
Cyrus turned quite pale .
Em carried the note to Mr. Perkins .
He took it , held it up , and scrutinized the address .
`` Did you write this to Cecily , Emmeline ? ''
he asked .
`` No , sir . ''
`` Who wrote it then ? ''
Em said quite shamelessly that she did n't know -- it had just been passed over from the next row .
`` And I suppose you have no idea where it came from ? ''
said Mr. Perkins , with his frightful , sardonic grin .
`` Well , perhaps Cecily can tell us .
You may take your seat , Emmeline , and you will remain at the foot of your spelling class for a week as punishment for passing the note .
Cecily , come here . ''
Indignant Em sat down and poor , innocent Cecily was haled forth to public ignominy .
She went with a crimson face .
`` Cecily , '' said her tormentor , `` do you know who wrote this letter to you ? ''
Cecily , like a certain renowned personage , could not tell a lie .
`` I -- I think so , sir , '' she murmured faintly .
`` Who was it ? ''
`` I ca n't tell you that , '' stammered Cecily , on the verge of tears .
`` Ah ! ''
said Mr. Perkins politely .
`` Well , I suppose I could easily find out by opening it .
But it is very impolite to open other people 's letters .
I think I have a better plan .
Since you refuse to tell me who wrote it , open it yourself , take this chalk , and copy the contents on the blackboard that we may all enjoy them .
And sign the writer 's name at the bottom . ''
`` Oh , '' gasped Cecily , choosing the lesser of two evils , `` I 'll tell you who wrote it -- it was -- `` Hush ! ''
Mr. Perkins checked her with a gentle motion of his hand .
He was always most gentle when most inexorable .
`` You did not obey me when I first ordered you to tell me the writer .
You can not have the privilege of doing so now .
Open the note , take the chalk , and do as I command you . ''
Worms will turn , and even meek , mild , obedient little souls like Cecily may be goaded to the point of wild , sheer rebellion .
`` I -- I wo n't ! ''
she cried passionately .
Mr. Perkins , martinet though he was , would hardly , I think , have inflicted such a punishment on Cecily , who was a favourite of his , had he known the real nature of that luckless missive .
But , as he afterwards admitted , he thought it was merely a note from some other girl , of such trifling sort as school-girls are wont to write ; and moreover , he had already committed himself to the decree , which , like those of Mede and Persian , must not alter .
To let Cecily off , after her mad defiance , would be to establish a revolutionary precedent .
`` So you really think you wo n't ? ''
he queried smilingly .
`` Well , on second thoughts , you may take your choice .
Either you will do as I have bidden you , or you will sit for three days with '' -- Mr. Perkins ' eye skimmed over the school-room to find a boy who was sitting alone -- `` with Cyrus Brisk . ''
This choice of Mr. Perkins , who knew nothing of the little drama of emotions that went on under the routine of lessons and exercises in his domain , was purely accidental , but we took it at the time as a stroke of diabolical genius .
It left Cecily no choice .
She would have done almost anything before she would have sat with Cyrus Brisk .
With flashing eyes she tore open the letter , snatched up the chalk , and dashed at the blackboard .
In a few minutes the contents of that letter graced the expanse usually sacred to more prosaic compositions .
I can not reproduce it verbatim , for I had no after opportunity of refreshing my memory .
But I remember that it was exceedingly sentimental and exceedingly ill-spelled -- for Cecily mercilessly copied down poor Cyrus ' mistakes .
He wrote her that he wore her hare over his hart -- `` and he stole it , '' Cecily threw passionately over her shoulder at Mr. Perkins -- that her eyes were so sweet and lovely that he could n't find words nice enuf to describ them , that he could never forget how butiful she had looked in prar meeting the evening before , and that some meels he could n't eat for thinking of her , with more to the same effect and he signed it `` yours till deth us do part , Cyrus Brisk . ''
As the writing proceeded we scholars exploded into smothered laughter , despite our awe of Mr. Perkins .
Mr. Perkins himself could not keep a straight face .
He turned abruptly away and looked out of the window , but we could see his shoulders shaking .
When Cecily had finished and had thrown down the chalk with bitter vehemence , he turned around with a very red face .
`` That will do .
You may sit down .
Cyrus , since it seems you are the guilty person , take the eraser and wipe that off the board .
Then go stand in the corner , facing the room , and hold your arms straight above your head until I tell you to take them down . ''
Cyrus obeyed and Cecily fled to her seat and wept , nor did Mr. Perkins meddle with her more that day .
She bore her burden of humiliation bitterly for several days , until she was suddenly comforted by a realization that Cyrus had ceased to persecute her .
He wrote no more letters , he gazed no longer in rapt adoration , he brought no more votive offerings of gum and pencils to her shrine .
At first we thought he had been cured by the unmerciful chaffing he had to undergo from his mates , but eventually his sister told Cecily the true reason .
Cyrus had at last been driven to believe that Cecily 's aversion to him was real , and not merely the defence of maiden coyness .
If she hated him so intensely that she would rather write that note on the blackboard than sit with him , what use was it to sigh like a furnace longer for her ?
Mr. Perkins had blighted love 's young dream for Cyrus with a killing frost .
Thenceforth sweet Cecily kept the noiseless tenor of her way unvexed by the attentions of enamoured swains .
CHAPTER XVI .
AUNT UNA 'S STORY Felicity , and Cecily , Dan , Felix , Sara Ray and I were sitting one evening on the mossy stones in Uncle Roger 's hill pasture , where we had sat the morning the Story Girl told us the tale of the Wedding Veil of the Proud Princess .
But it was evening now and the valley beneath us was brimmed up with the glow of the afterlight .
Behind us , two tall , shapely spruce trees rose up against the sunset , and through the dark oriel of their sundered branches an evening star looked down .
We sat on a little strip of emerald grassland and before us was a sloping meadow all white with daisies .
We were waiting for Peter and the Story Girl .
Peter had gone to Markdale after dinner to spend the afternoon with his reunited parents because it was his birthday .
He had left us grimly determined to confess to his father the dark secret of his Presbyterianism , and we were anxious to know what the result had been .
The Story Girl had gone that morning with Miss Reade to visit the latter 's home near Charlottetown , and we expected soon to see her coming gaily along over the fields from the Armstrong place .
Presently Peter came jauntily stepping along the field path up the hill .
`` Has n't Peter got tall ? ''
said Cecily .
`` Peter is growing to be a very fine looking boy , '' decreed Felicity .
`` I notice he 's got ever so much handsomer since his father came home , '' said Dan , with a killing sarcasm that was wholly lost on Felicity , who gravely responded that she supposed it was because Peter felt so much freer from care and responsibility .
`` What luck , Peter ? ''
yelled Dan , as soon as Peter was within earshot .
`` Everything 's all right , '' he shouted jubilantly .
`` I told father right off , licketty-split , as soon as I got home , '' he added when he reached us .
`` I was anxious to have it over with .
I says , solemn-like , ` Dad , there 's something I 've got to tell you , and I do n't know how you 'll take it , but it ca n't be helped , ' I says .
Dad looked pretty sober , and he says , says he , ` What have you been up to , Peter ?
Do n't be afraid to tell me .
I 've been forgiven to seventy times seven , so surely I can forgive a little , too ? '
` Well , ' I says , desperate-like , ` the truth is , father , I 'm a Presbyterian .
I made up my mind last summer , the time of the Judgment Day , that I 'd be a Presbyterian , and I 've got to stick to it .
I 'm sorry I ca n't be a Methodist , like you and mother and Aunt Jane , but I ca n't and that 's all there is to it , ' I says .
Then I waited , scared-like .
But father , he just looked relieved and he says , says he , ` Goodness , boy , you can be a Presbyterian or anything else you like , so long as it 's Protestant .
I 'm not caring , ' he says .
` The main thing is that you must be good and do what 's right . '
I tell you , '' concluded Peter emphatically , `` father is a Christian all right . ''
`` Well , I suppose your mind will be at rest now , '' said Felicity .
`` What 's that you have in your buttonhole ? ''
`` That 's a four-leaved clover , '' answered Peter exultantly .
`` That means good luck for the summer .
I found it in Markdale .
There ai n't much clover in Carlisle this year of any kind of leaf .
The crop is going to be a failure .
Your Uncle Roger says it 's because there ai n't enough old maids in Carlisle .
There 's lots of them in Markdale , and that 's the reason , he says , why they always have such good clover crops there . ''
`` What on earth have old maids to do with it ? ''
cried Cecily .
`` I do n't believe they 've a single thing to do with it , but Mr. Roger says they have , and he says a man called Darwin proved it .
This is the rigmarole he got off to me the other day .
The clover crop depends on there being plenty of bumble-bees , because they are the only insects with tongues long enough to -- to -- fer -- fertilize -- I think he called it the blossoms .
But mice eat bumble-bees and cats eat mice and old maids keep cats .
So your Uncle Roger says the more old maids the more cats , and the more cats the fewer field-mice , and the fewer field-mice the more bumble-bees , and the more bumble-bees the better clover crops . ''
`` So do n't worry if you do get to be old maids , girls , '' said Dan .
`` Remember , you 'll be helping the clover crops . ''
`` I never heard such stuff as you boys talk , '' said Felicity , `` and Uncle Roger is no better . ''
`` There comes the Story Girl , '' cried Cecily eagerly .
`` Now we 'll hear all about Beautiful Alice 's home . ''
The Story Girl was bombarded with eager questions as soon as she arrived .
Miss Reade 's home was a dream of a place , it appeared .
The house was just covered with ivy and there was a most delightful old garden -- `` and , '' added the Story Girl , with the joy of a connoisseur who has found a rare gem , `` the sweetest little story connected with it .
And I saw the hero of the story too . ''
`` Where was the heroine ? ''
queried Cecily .
`` She is dead . ''
`` Oh , of course she 'd have to die , '' exclaimed Dan in disgust .
`` I 'd like a story where somebody lived once in awhile . ''
`` I 've told you heaps of stories where people lived , '' retorted the Story Girl .
`` If this heroine had n't died there would n't have been any story .
She was Miss Reade 's aunt and her name was Una , and I believe she must have been just like Miss Reade herself .
Miss Reade told me all about her .
When we went into the garden I saw in one corner of it an old stone bench arched over by a couple of pear trees and all grown about with grass and violets .
And an old man was sitting on it -- a bent old man with long , snow-white hair and beautiful sad blue eyes .
He seemed very lonely and sorrowful and I wondered that Miss Reade did n't speak to him .
But she never let on she saw him and took me away to another part of the garden .
After awhile he got up and went away and then Miss Reade said , ` Come over to Aunt Una 's seat and I will tell you about her and her lover -- that man who has just gone out . ' ''
` Oh , is n't he too old for a lover ? '
I said .
`` Beautiful Alice laughed and said it was forty years since he had been her Aunt Una 's lover .
He had been a tall , handsome young man then , and her Aunt Una was a beautiful girl of nineteen .
`` We went over and sat down and Miss Reade told me all about her .
She said that when she was a child she had heard much of her Aunt Una -- that she seemed to have been one of those people who are not soon forgotten , whose personality seems to linger about the scenes of their lives long after they have passed away . ''
`` What is a personality ?
Is it another word for ghost ? ''
asked Peter .
`` No , '' said the Story Girl shortly .
`` I ca n't stop in a story to explain words . ''
`` I do n't believe you know what it is yourself , '' said Felicity .
The Story Girl picked up her hat , which she had thrown down on the grass , and placed it defiantly on her brown curls .
`` I 'm going in , '' she announced .
`` I have to help Aunt Olivia ice a cake tonight , and you all seem more interested in dictionaries than stories . ''
`` That 's not fair , '' I exclaimed .
`` Dan and Felix and Sara Ray and Cecily and I have never said a word .
It 's mean to punish us for what Peter and Felicity did .
We want to hear the rest of the story .
Never mind what a personality is but go on -- and , Peter , you young ass , keep still . ''
`` I only wanted to know , '' muttered Peter sulkily .
`` I DO know what personality is , but it 's hard to explain , '' said the Story Girl , relenting .
`` It 's what makes you different from Dan , Peter , and me different from Felicity or Cecily .
Miss Reade 's Aunt Una had a personality that was very uncommon .
And she was beautiful , too , with white skin and night-black eyes and hair -- a ` moonlight beauty , ' Miss Reade called it .
She used to keep a kind of a diary , and Miss Reade 's mother used to read parts of it to her .
She wrote verses in it and they were lovely ; and she wrote descriptions of the old garden which she loved very much .
Miss Reade said that everything in the garden , plot or shrub or tree , recalled to her mind some phrase or verse of her Aunt Una 's , so that the whole place seemed full of her , and her memory haunted the walks like a faint , sweet perfume .
`` Una had , as I 've told you , a lover ; and they were to have been married on her twentieth birthday .
Her wedding dress was to have been a gown of white brocade with purple violets in it .
But a little while before it she took ill with fever and died ; and she was buried on her birthday instead of being married .
It was just in the time of opening roses .
Her lover has been faithful to her ever since ; he has never married , and every June , on her birthday , he makes a pilgrimage to the old garden and sits for a long time in silence on the bench where he used to woo her on crimson eves and moonlight nights of long ago .
Miss Reade says she always loves to see him sitting there because it gives her such a deep and lasting sense of the beauty and strength of love which can thus outlive time and death .
And sometimes , she says , it gives her a little eerie feeling , too , as if her Aunt Una were really sitting there beside him , keeping tryst , although she has been in her grave for forty years . ''
`` It would be real romantic to die young and have your lover make a pilgrimage to your garden every year , '' reflected Sara Ray .
`` It would be more comfortable to go on living and get married to him , '' said Felicity .
`` Mother says all those sentimental ideas are bosh and I expect they are .
It 's a wonder Beautiful Alice has n't a beau herself .
She is so pretty and lady-like . ''
`` The Carlisle fellows all say she is too stuck up , '' said Dan .
`` There 's nobody in Carlisle half good enough for her , '' cried the Story Girl , `` except -- ex-cept -- '' `` Except who ? ''
asked Felix .
`` Never mind , '' said the Story Girl mysteriously .
CHAPTER XVII .
AUNT OLIVIA 'S WEDDING What a delightful , old-fashioned , wholesome excitement there was about Aunt Olivia 's wedding !
The Monday and Tuesday preceding it we did not go to school at all , but were all kept home to do chores and run errands .
The cooking and decorating and arranging that went on those two days was amazing , and Felicity was so happy over it all that she did not even quarrel with Dan -- though she narrowly escaped it when he told her that the Governor 's wife was coming to the wedding .
`` Mind you have some of her favourite rusks for her , '' he said .
`` I guess , '' said Felicity with dignity , `` that Aunt Olivia 's wedding supper will be good enough for even a Governor 's wife . ''
`` I s ` pose none of us except the Story Girl will get to the first table , '' said Felix , rather gloomily .
`` Never mind , '' comforted Felicity .
`` There 's a whole turkey to be kept for us , and a freezerful of ice cream .
Cecily and I are going to wait on the tables , and we 'll put away a little of everything that 's extra nice for our suppers . ''
`` I do so want to have my supper with you , '' sighed Sara Ray , `` but I s ` pose ma will drag me with her wherever she goes .
She wo n't trust me out of her sight a minute the whole evening -- I know she wo n't . ''
`` I 'll get Aunt Olivia to ask her to let you have your supper with us , '' said Cecily .
`` She ca n't refuse the bride 's request . ''
`` You do n't know all ma can do , '' returned Sara darkly .
`` No , I feel that I 'll have to eat my supper with her .
But I suppose I ought to be very thankful I 'm to get to the wedding at all , and that ma did get me a new white dress for it .
Even yet I 'm so scared something will happen to prevent me from getting to it . ''
Monday evening shrouded itself in clouds , and all night long the voice of the wind answered to the voice of the rain .
Tuesday the downpour continued .
We were quite frantic about it .
Suppose it kept on raining over Wednesday !
Aunt Olivia could n't be married in the orchard then .
That would be too bad , especially when the late apple tree had most obligingly kept its store of blossom until after all the other trees had faded and then burst lavishly into bloom for Aunt Olivia 's wedding .
That apple tree was always very late in blooming , and this year it was a week later than usual .
It was a sight to see -- a great tree-pyramid with high , far-spreading boughs , over which a wealth of rosy snow seemed to have been flung .
Never had bride a more magnificent canopy .
To our rapture , however , it cleared up beautifully Tuesday evening , and the sun , before setting in purple pomp , poured a flood of wonderful radiance over the whole great , green , diamond-dripping world , promising a fair morrow .
Uncle Alec drove off to the station through it to bring home the bridegroom and his best man .
Dan was full of a wild idea that we should all meet them at the gate , armed with cowbells and tin-pans , and `` charivari '' them up the lane .
Peter sided with him , but the rest of us voted down the suggestion .
`` Do you want Dr. Seton to think we are a pack of wild Indians ? ''
asked Felicity severely .
`` A nice opinion he 'd have of our manners ! ''
`` Well , it 's the only chance we 'll have to chivaree them , '' grumbled Dan .
`` Aunt Olivia would n't mind .
SHE can take a joke . ''
`` Ma would kill you if you did such a thing , '' warned Felicity .
`` Dr. Seton lives in Halifax and they NEVER chivaree people there .
He would think it very vulgar . ''
`` Then he should have stayed in Halifax and got married there , '' retorted Dan , sulkily .
We were very curious to see our uncle-elect .
When he came and Uncle Alec took him into the parlour , we were all crowded into the dark corner behind the stairs to peep at him .
Then we fled to the moonlight world outside and discussed him at the dairy .
`` He 's bald , '' said Cecily disappointedly .
`` And RATHER short and stout , '' said Felicity .
`` He 's forty , if he 's a day , '' said Dan .
`` Never you mind , '' cried the Story Girl loyally , `` Aunt Olivia loves him with all her heart . ''
`` And more than that , he 's got lots of money , '' added Felicity .
`` Well , he may be all right , '' said Peter , `` but it 's my opinion that your Aunt Olivia could have done just as well on the Island . ''
`` YOUR opinion does n't matter very much to our family , '' said Felicity crushingly .
But when we made the acquaintance of Dr. Seton next morning we liked him enormously , and voted him a jolly good fellow .
Even Peter remarked aside to me that he guessed Miss Olivia had n't made much of a mistake after all , though it was plain he thought she was running a risk in not sticking to the Island .
The girls had not much time to discuss him with us .
They were all exceedingly busy and whisked about at such a rate that they seemed to possess the power of being in half a dozen places at once .
The importance of Felicity was quite terrible .
But after dinner came a lull .
`` Thank goodness , everything is ready at last , '' breathed Felicity devoutly , as we foregathered for a brief space in the fir wood .
`` We 've nothing more to do now but get dressed .
It 's really a serious thing to have a wedding in the family . ''
`` I have a note from Sara Ray , '' said Cecily .
`` Judy Pineau brought it up when she brought Mrs. Ray 's spoons .
Just let me read it to you : -- DEAREST CECILY : -- A DREADFUL MISFORTUNE has happened to me .
Last night I went with Judy to water the cows and in the spruce bush we found a WASPS ' NEST and Judy thought it was AN OLD ONE and she POKED IT WITH A STICK .
And it was a NEW ONE , full of wasps , and they all flew out and STUNG US TERRIBLY , on the face and hands .
My face is all swelled up and I can HARDLY SEE out of one eye .
The SUFFERING was awful but I did n't mind that as much as being scared ma would n't take me to the wedding .
But she says I can go and I 'm going .
I know that I am a HARD-LOOKING SIGHT , but it is n't anything catching .
I am writing this so that you wo n't get a shock when you see me .
Is n't it SO STRANGE to think your dear Aunt Olivia is going away ?
How you will miss her !
But your loss will be her gain . ''
` Au revoir , '' ` Your loving chum , SARA RAY . ' ''
`` That poor child , '' said the Story Girl .
`` Well , all I hope is that strangers wo n't take her for one of the family , '' remarked Felicity in a disgusted tone .
Aunt Olivia was married at five o'clock in the orchard under the late apple tree .
It was a pretty scene .
The air was full of the perfume of apple bloom , and the bees blundered foolishly and delightfully from one blossom to another , half drunken with perfume .
The old orchard was full of smiling guests in wedding garments .
Aunt Olivia was most beautiful amid the frost of her bridal veil , and the Story Girl , in an unusually long white dress , with her brown curls clubbed up behind , looked so tall and grown-up that we hardly recognized her .
After the ceremony -- during which Sara Ray cried all the time -- there was a royal wedding supper , and Sara Ray was permitted to eat her share of the feast with us .
`` I 'm glad I was stung by the wasps after all , '' she said delightedly .
`` If I had n't been ma would never have let me eat with you .
She just got tired explaining to people what was the matter with my face , and so she was glad to get rid of me .
I know I look awful , but , oh , was n't the bride a dream ? ''
We missed the Story Girl , who , of course , had to have her supper at the bridal table ; but we were a hilarious little crew and the girls had nobly kept their promise to save tid-bits for us .
By the time the last table was cleared away Aunt Olivia and our new uncle were ready to go .
There was an orgy of tears and leavetakings , and then they drove away into the odorous moonlight night .
Dan and Peter pursued them down the lane with a fiendish din of bells and pans , much to Felicity 's wrath .
But Aunt Olivia and Uncle Robert took it in good part and waved their hands back to us with peals of laughter .
`` They 're just that pleased with themselves that they would n't mind if there was an earthquake , '' said Felix , grinning .
`` It 's been splendid and exciting , and everything went off well , '' sighed Cecily , `` but , oh dear , it 's going to be so queer and lonesome without Aunt Olivia .
I just believe I 'll cry all night . ''
`` You 're tired to death , that 's what 's the matter with you , '' said Dan , returning .
`` You girls have worked like slaves today . ''
`` Tomorrow will be even harder , '' said Felicity comfortingly .
`` Everything will have to be cleaned up and put away . ''
Peg Bowen paid us a call the next day and was regaled with a feast of fat things left over from the supper .
`` Well , I 've had all I can eat , '' she said , when she had finished and brought out her pipe .
`` And that does n't happen to me every day .
There ai n't been as much marrying as there used to be , and half the time they just sneak off to the minister , as if they were ashamed of it , and get married without any wedding or supper .
That ai n't the King way , though .
And so Olivia 's gone off at last .
She were n't in any hurry but they tell me she 's done well .
Time 'll show . ''
`` Why do n't you get married yourself , Peg ? ''
queried Uncle Roger teasingly .
We held our breath over his temerity .
`` Because I 'm not so easy to please as your wife will be , '' retorted Peg .
She departed in high good humour over her repartee .
Meeting Sara Ray on the doorstep she stopped and asked her what was the matter with her face .
`` Wasps , '' stammered Sara Ray , laconic from terror .
`` Humph !
And your hands ? ''
`` Warts . ''
`` I 'll tell you what 'll take them away .
You get a pertater and go out under the full moon , cut the pertater in two , rub your warts with one half and say , ` One , two , three , warts , go away from me . '
Then rub them with the other half and say , ` One , two , three , four , warts , never trouble me more . '
Then bury the pertater and never tell a living soul where you buried it .
You wo n't have no more warts .
Mind you bury the pertater , though .
If you do n't , and anyone picks it up , she 'll get your warts . ''
CHAPTER XVIII .
SARA RAY HELPS OUT We all missed Aunt Olivia greatly ; she had been so merry and companionable , and had possessed such a knack of understanding small fry .
But youth quickly adapts itself to changed conditions ; in a few weeks it seemed as if the Story Girl had always been living at Uncle Alec 's , and as if Uncle Roger had always had a fat , jolly housekeeper with a double chin and little , twinkling blue eyes .
I do n't think Aunt Janet ever quite got over missing Aunt Olivia , or looked upon Mrs. Hawkins as anything but a necessary evil ; but life resumed its even tenor on the King farm , broken only by the ripples of excitement over the school concert and letters from Aunt Olivia describing her trip through the land of Evangeline .
We incorporated the letters in Our Magazine under the heading `` From Our Special Correspondent '' and were very proud of them .
At the end of June our school concert came off and was a great event in our young lives .
It was the first appearance of most of us on any platform , and some of us were very nervous .
We all had recitations , except Dan , who had refused flatly to take any part and was consequently care-free .
`` I 'm sure I shall die when I find myself up on that platform , facing people , '' sighed Sara Ray , as we talked the affair over in Uncle Stephen 's Walk the night before the concert .
`` I 'm afraid I 'll faint , '' was Cecily 's more moderate foreboding .
`` I 'm not one single bit nervous , '' said Felicity complacently .
`` I 'm not nervous this time , '' said the Story Girl , `` but the first time I recited I was . ''
`` My Aunt Jane , '' remarked Peter , `` used to say that an old teacher of hers told her that when she was going to recite or speak in public she must just get it firmly into her mind that it was only a lot of cabbage heads she had before her , and she would n't be nervous . ''
`` One might n't be nervous , but I do n't think there would be much inspiration in reciting to cabbage heads , '' said the Story Girl decidedly .
`` I want to recite to PEOPLE , and see them looking interested and thrilled . ''
`` If I can only get through my piece without breaking down I do n't care whether I thrill people or not , '' said Sara Ray .
`` I 'm afraid I 'll forget mine and get stuck , '' foreboded Felix .
`` Some of you fellows be sure and prompt me if I do -- and do it quick , so 's I wo n't get worse rattled . ''
`` I know one thing , '' said Cecily resolutely , `` and that is , I 'm going to curl my hair for to-morrow night .
I 've never curled it since Peter almost died , but I simply must tomorrow night , for all the other girls are going to have theirs in curls . ''
`` The dew and heat will take all the curl out of yours and then you 'll look like a scarecrow , '' warned Felicity .
`` No , I wo n't .
I 'm going to put my hair up in paper tonight and wet it with a curling-fluid that Judy Pineau uses .
Sara brought me up a bottle of it .
Judy says it is great stuff -- your hair will keep in curl for days , no matter how damp the weather is .
I 'll leave my hair in the papers till tomorrow evening , and then I 'll have beautiful curls . ''
`` You 'd better leave your hair alone , '' said Dan gruffly .
`` Smooth hair is better than a lot of fly-away curls . ''
But Cecily was not to be persuaded .
Curls she craved and curls she meant to have .
`` I 'm thankful my warts have all gone , any-way , '' said Sara Ray .
`` So they have , '' exclaimed Felicity .
`` Did you try Peg 's recipe ? ''
`` Yes .
I did n't believe in it but I tried it .
For the first few days afterwards I kept watching my warts , but they did n't go away , and then I gave up and forgot them .
But one day last week I just happened to look at my hands and there was n't a wart to be seen .
It was the most amazing thing . ''
`` And yet you 'll say Peg Bowen is n't a witch , '' said Peter .
`` Pshaw , it was just the potato juice , '' scoffed Dan .
`` It was a dry old potato I had , and there was n't much juice in it , '' said Sara Ray .
`` One hardly knows what to believe .
But one thing is certain -- my warts are gone . ''
Cecily put her hair up in curl-papers that night , thoroughly soaked in Judy Pineau 's curling-fluid .
It was a nasty job , for the fluid was very sticky , but Cecily persevered and got it done .
Then she went to bed with a towel tied over her head to protect the pillow .
She did not sleep well and had uncanny dreams , but she came down to breakfast with an expression of triumph .
The Story Girl examined her head critically and said , `` Cecily , if I were you I 'd take those papers out this morning . ''
`` Oh , no ; if I do my hair will be straight again by night .
I mean to leave them in till the last minute . ''
`` I would n't do that -- I really would n't , '' persisted the Story Girl .
`` If you do your hair will be too curly and all bushy and fuzzy . ''
Cecily finally yielded and went upstairs with the Story Girl .
Presently we heard a little shriek -- then two little shrieks -- then three .
Then Felicity came flying down and called her mother .
Aunt Janet went up and presently came down again with a grim mouth .
She filled a large pan with warm water and carried it upstairs .
We dared ask her no questions , but when Felicity came down to wash the dishes we bombarded her .
`` What on earth is the matter with Cecily ? ''
demanded Dan .
`` Is she sick ? ''
`` No , she is n't .
I warned her not to put her hair in curls but she would n't listen to me .
I guess she wishes she had now .
When people have n't natural curly hair they should n't try to make it curly .
They get punished if they do . ''
`` Look here , Felicity , never mind all that .
Just tell us what has happened Sis . ''
`` Well , this is what has happened her .
That ninny of a Sara Ray brought up a bottle of mucilage instead of Judy 's curling-fluid , and Cecily put her hair up with THAT .
It 's in an awful state . ''
`` Good gracious ! ''
exclaimed Dan .
`` Look here , will she ever get it out ? ''
`` Goodness knows .
She 's got her head in soak now .
Her hair is just matted together hard as a board .
That 's what comes of vanity , '' said Felicity , than whom no vainer girl existed .
Poor Cecily paid dearly enough for HER vanity .
She spent a bad forenoon , made no easier by her mother 's severe rebukes .
For an hour she `` soaked '' her head ; that is , she stood over a panful of warm water and kept dipping her head in with tightly shut eyes .
Finally her hair softened sufficiently to be disentangled from the curl papers ; and then Aunt Janet subjected it to a merciless shampoo .
Eventually they got all the mucilage washed out of it and Cecily spent the remainder of the forenoon sitting before the open oven door in the hot kitchen drying her ill-used tresses .
She felt very down-hearted ; her hair was of that order which , glossy and smooth normally , is dry and harsh and lustreless for several days after being shampooed .
`` I 'll look like a fright tonight , '' said the poor child to me with trembling voice .
`` The ends will be sticking out all over my head . ''
`` Sara Ray is a perfect idiot , '' I said wrathfully `` Oh , do n't be hard on poor Sara .
She did n't mean to bring me mucilage .
It 's really all my own fault , I know .
I made a solemn vow when Peter was dying that I would never curl my hair again , and I should have kept it .
It is n't right to break solemn vows .
But my hair will look like dried hay tonight . ''
Poor Sara Ray was quite overwhelmed when she came up and found what she had done .
Felicity was very hard on her , and Aunt Janet was coldly disapproving , but sweet Cecily forgave her unreservedly , and they walked to the school that night with their arms about each other 's waists as usual .
The school-room was crowded with friends and neighbours .
Mr. Perkins was flying about , getting things into readiness , and Miss Reade , who was the organist of the evening , was sitting on the platform , looking her sweetest and prettiest .
She wore a delightful white lace hat with a fetching little wreath of tiny forget-me-nots around the brim , a white muslin dress with sprays of blue violets scattered over it , and a black lace scarf .
`` Does n't she look angelic ? ''
said Cecily rapturously .
`` Mind you , '' said Sara Ray , `` the Awkward Man is here -- in the corner behind the door .
I never remember seeing him at a concert before . ''
`` I suppose he came to hear the Story Girl recite , '' said Felicity .
`` He is such a friend of hers . ''
The concert went off very well .
Dialogues , choruses and recitations followed each other in rapid succession .
Felix got through his without `` getting stuck , '' and Peter did excellently , though he stuffed his hands in his trousers pockets -- a habit of which Mr. Perkins had vainly tried to break him .
Peter 's recitation was one greatly in vogue at that time , beginning , `` My name is Norval ; on the Grampian hills My father feeds his flocks . ''
At our first practice Peter had started gaily in , rushing through the first line with no thought whatever of punctuation -- `` My name is Norval on the Grampian Hills . ''
`` Stop , stop , Peter , '' quoth Mr. Perkins , sarcastically , `` your name might be Norval if you were never on the Grampian Hills .
There 's a semi-colon in that line , I wish you to remember . ''
Peter did remember it .
Cecily neither fainted nor failed when it came her turn .
She recited her little piece very well , though somewhat mechanically .
I think she really did much better than if she had had her desired curls .
The miserable conviction that her hair , alone among that glossy-tressed bevy , was looking badly , quite blotted out all nervousness and self-consciousness from her mind .
Her hair apart , she looked very pretty .
The prevailing excitement had made bright her eye and flushed her cheeks rosily -- too rosily , perhaps .
I heard a Carlisle woman behind me whisper that Cecily King looked consumptive , just like her Aunt Felicity ; and I hated her fiercely for it .
Sara Ray also managed to get through respectably , although she was pitiably nervous .
Her bow was naught but a short nod -- `` as if her head worked on wires , '' whispered Felicity uncharitably -- and the wave of her lily-white hand more nearly resembled an agonized jerk than a wave .
We all felt relieved when she finished .
She was , in a sense , one of `` our crowd , '' and we had been afraid she would disgrace us by breaking down .
Felicity followed her and recited her selection without haste , without rest , and absolutely without any expression whatever .
But what mattered it how she recited ?
To look at her was sufficient .
What with her splendid fleece of golden curls , her great , brilliant blue eyes , her exquisitely tinted face , her dimpled hands and arms , every member of the audience must have felt it was worth the ten cents he had paid merely to see her .
The Story Girl followed .
An expectant silence fell over the room , and Mr. Perkins ' face lost the look of tense anxiety it had worn all the evening .
Here was a performer who could be depended on .
No need to fear stage fright or forgetfulness on her part .
The Story Girl was not looking her best that night .
White never became her , and her face was pale , though her eyes were splendid .
But nobody thought about her appearance when the power and magic of her voice caught and held her listeners spellbound .
Her recitation was an old one , figuring in one of the School Readers , and we scholars all knew it off by heart .
Sara Ray alone had not heard the Story Girl recite it .
The latter had not been drilled at practices as had the other pupils , Mr. Perkins choosing not to waste time teaching her what she already knew far better than he did .
The only time she had recited it had been at the `` dress rehearsal '' two nights before , at which Sara Ray had not been present .
In the poem a Florentine lady of old time , wedded to a cold and cruel husband , had died , or was supposed to have died , and had been carried to `` the rich , the beautiful , the dreadful tomb '' of her proud family .
In the night she wakened from her trance and made her escape .
Chilled and terrified , she had made her way to her husband 's door , only to be driven away brutally as a restless ghost by the horror-stricken inmates .
A similar reception awaited her at her father 's .
Then she had wandered blindly through the streets of Florence until she had fallen exhausted at the door of the lover of her girlhood .
He , unafraid , had taken her in and cared for her .
On the morrow , the husband and father , having discovered the empty tomb , came to claim her .
She refused to return to them and the case was carried to the court of law .
The verdict given was that a woman who had been `` to burial borne '' and left for dead , who had been driven from her husband 's door and from her childhood home , `` must be adjudged as dead in law and fact , '' was no more daughter or wife , but was set free to form what new ties she would .
The climax of the whole selection came in the line , `` The court pronounces the defendant -- DEAD ! ''
and the Story Girl was wont to render it with such dramatic intensity and power that the veriest dullard among her listeners could not have missed its force and significance .
She swept along through the poem royally , playing on the emotions of her audience as she had so often played on ours in the old orchard .
Pity , terror , indignation , suspense , possessed her hearers in turn .
In the court scene she surpassed herself .
She was , in very truth , the Florentine judge , stern , stately , impassive .
Her voice dropped into the solemnity of the all-important line , '' ` The court pronounces the defendant -- ' '' She paused for a breathless moment , the better to bring out the tragic import of the last word .
`` DEAD , '' piped up Sara Ray in her shrill , plaintive little voice .
The effect , to use a hackneyed but convenient phrase , can better be imagined than described .
Instead of the sigh of relieved tension that should have swept over the audience at the conclusion of the line , a burst of laughter greeted it .
The Story Girl 's performance was completely spoiled .
She dealt the luckless Sara a glance that would have slain her on the spot could glances kill , stumbled lamely and impotently through the few remaining lines of her recitation , and fled with crimson cheeks to hide her mortification in the little corner that had been curtained off for a dressing-room .
Mr. Perkins looked things not lawful to be uttered , and the audience tittered at intervals for the rest of the performance .
Sara Ray alone remained serenely satisfied until the close of the concert , when we surrounded her with a whirlwind of reproaches .
`` Why , '' she stammered aghast , `` what did I do ?
I -- I thought she was stuck and that I ought to prompt her quick . ''
`` You little fool , she just paused for effect , '' cried Felicity angrily .
Felicity might be rather jealous of the Story Girl 's gift , but she was furious at beholding `` one of our family '' made ridiculous in such a fashion .
`` You have less sense than anyone I ever heard of , Sara Ray . ''
Poor Sara dissolved in tears .
`` I did n't know .
I thought she was stuck , '' she wailed again .
She cried all the way home , but we did not try to comfort her .
We felt quite out of patience with her .
Even Cecily was seriously annoyed .
This second blunder of Sara 's was too much even for her loyalty .
We saw her turn in at her own gate and go sobbing up her lane with no relenting .
The Story Girl was home before us , having fled from the schoolhouse as soon as the programme was over .
We tried to sympathize with her but she would not be sympathized with .
`` Please do n't ever mention it to me again , '' she said , with compressed lips .
`` I never want to be reminded of it .
Oh , that little IDIOT ! ''
`` She spoiled Peter 's sermon last summer and now she 's spoiled your recitation , '' said Felicity .
`` I think it 's time we gave up associating with Sara Ray . ''
`` Oh , do n't be quite so hard on her , '' pleaded Cecily .
`` Think of the life the poor child has to live at home .
I know she 'll cry all night . ''
`` Oh , let 's go to bed , '' growled Dan .
`` I 'm good and ready for it .
I 've had enough of school concerts . ''
CHAPTER XIX .
BY WAY OF THE STARS But for two of us the adventures of the night were not yet over .
Silence settled down over the old house -- the eerie , whisperful , creeping silence of night .
Felix and Dan were already sound asleep ; I was drifting near the coast o ' dreams when I was aroused by a light tap on the door .
`` Bev , are you asleep ? ''
came in the Story Girl 's whisper .
`` No , what is it ? ''
`` S-s-h .
Get up and dress and come out .
I want you . ''
With a good deal of curiosity and some misgiving I obeyed .
What was in the wind now ?
Outside in the hall I found the Story Girl , with a candle in her hand , and her hat and jacket .
`` Where are you going ? ''
I whispered in amazement .
`` Hush .
I 've got to go to the school and you must come with me .
I left my coral necklace there .
The clasp came loose and I was so afraid I 'd lose it that I took it off and put it in the bookcase .
I was feeling so upset when the concert was over that I forgot all about it . ''
The coral necklace was a very handsome one which had belonged to the Story Girl 's mother .
She had never been permitted to wear it before , and it had only been by dint of much coaxing that she had induced Aunt Janet to let her wear it to the concert .
`` But there 's no sense in going for it in the dead of night , '' I objected .
`` It will be quite safe .
You can go for it in the morning . ''
`` Lizzie Paxton and her daughter are going to clean the school tomorrow , and I heard Lizzie say tonight she meant to be at it by five o'clock to get through before the heat of the day .
You know perfectly well what Liz Paxton 's reputation is .
If she finds that necklace I 'll never see it again .
Besides , if I wait till the morning , Aunt Janet may find out that I left it there and she 'd never let me wear it again .
No , I 'm going for it now .
If you 're afraid , '' added the Story Girl with delicate scorn , `` of course you need n't come . ''
Afraid !
I 'd show her !
`` Come on , '' I said .
We slipped out of the house noiselessly and found ourselves in the unutterable solemnity and strangeness of a dark night .
It was a new experience , and our hearts thrilled and our nerves tingled to the charm of it .
Never had we been abroad before at such an hour .
The world around us was not the world of daylight .
'T was an alien place , full of weird , evasive enchantment and magicry .
Only in the country can one become truly acquainted with the night .
There it has the solemn calm of the infinite .
The dim wide fields lie in silence , wrapped in the holy mystery of darkness .
A wind , loosened from wild places far away , steals out to blow over dewy , star-lit , immemorial hills .
The air in the pastures is sweet with the hush of dreams , and one may rest here like a child on its mother 's breast .
`` Is n't it wonderful ? ''
breathed the Story Girl as we went down the long hill .
`` Do you know , I can forgive Sara Ray now .
I thought tonight I never could -- but now it does n't matter any more .
I can even see how funny it was .
Oh , was n't it funny ?
` DEAD ' in that squeaky little voice of Sara 's !
I 'll just behave to her tomorrow as if nothing had happened .
It seems so long ago now , here in the night . ''
Neither of us ever forgot the subtle delight of that stolen walk .
A spell of glamour was over us .
The breezes whispered strange secrets of elf-haunted glens , and the hollows where the ferns grew were brimmed with mystery and romance .
Ghostlike scents crept out of the meadows to meet us , and the fir wood before we came to the church was a living sweetness of Junebells growing in abundance .
Junebells have another and more scientific name , of course .
But who could desire a better name than Junebells ?
They are so perfect in their way that they seem to epitomize the very scent and charm of the forest , as if the old wood 's daintiest thoughts had materialized in blossom ; and not all the roses by Bendameer 's stream are as fragrant as a shallow sheet of Junebells under the boughs of fir .
There were fireflies abroad that night , too , increasing the gramarye of it .
There is certainly something a little supernatural about fireflies .
Nobody pretends to understand them .
They are akin to the tribes of fairy , survivals of the elder time when the woods and hills swarmed with the little green folk .
It is still very easy to believe in fairies when you see those goblin lanterns glimmering among the fir tassels .
`` Is n't it beautiful ? ''
said the Story Girl in rapture .
`` I would n't have missed it for anything .
I 'm glad I left my necklace .
And I am glad you are with me , Bev .
The others would n't understand so well .
I like you because I do n't have to talk to you all the time .
It 's so nice to walk with someone you do n't have to talk to .
Here is the graveyard .
Are you frightened to pass it , Bev ? ''
`` No , I do n't think I 'm frightened , '' I answered slowly , `` but I have a queer feeling . ''
`` So have I .
But it is n't fear .
I do n't know what it is .
I feel as if something was reaching out of the graveyard to hold me -- something that wanted life -- I do n't like it -- let 's hurry .
But is n't it strange to think of all the dead people in there who were once alive like you and me .
I do n't feel as if I could EVER die .
Do you ? ''
`` No , but everybody must .
Of course we go on living afterwards , just the same .
Do n't let 's talk of such things here , '' I said hurriedly .
When we reached the school I contrived to open a window .
We scrambled in , lighted a lamp and found the missing necklace .
The Story Girl stood on the platform and gave an imitation of the catastrophe of the evening that made me shout with laughter .
We prowled around for sheer delight over being there at an unearthly hour when everybody supposed we were sound asleep in our beds .
It was with regret that we left , and we walked home as slowly as we could to prolong the adventure .
`` Let 's never tell anyone , '' said the Story Girl , as we reached home .
`` Let 's just have it as a secret between us for ever and ever -- something that nobody else knows a thing about but you and me . ''
`` We 'd better keep it a secret from Aunt Janet anyhow , '' I whispered , laughing .
`` She 'd think we were both crazy . ''
`` It 's real jolly to be crazy once in a while , '' said the Story Girl .
CHAPTER XX .
EXTRACTS FROM `` OUR MAGAZINE '' EDITORIAL As will be seen there is no Honour Roll in this number .
Even Felicity has thought all the beautiful thoughts that can be thought and can not think any more .
Peter has never got drunk but , under existing circumstances , that is not greatly to his credit .
As for our written resolutions they have silently disappeared from our chamber walls and the place that once knew them knows them no more for ever .
-LRB- PETER , PERPLEXEDLY : `` Seems to me I 've heard something like that before . '' -RRB-
It is very sad but we will all make some new resolutions next year and maybe it will be easier to keep those .
THE STORY OF THE LOCKET THAT WAS BAKED This was a story my Aunt Jane told me about her granma when she was a little girl .
Its funny to think of baking a locket , but it was n't to eat .
She was my great granma but Ill call her granma for short .
It happened when she was ten years old .
Of course she wasent anybodys granma then .
Her father and mother and her were living in a new settlement called Brinsley .
Their nearest naybor was a mile away .
One day her Aunt Hannah from Charlottetown came and wanted her ma to go visiting with her .
At first granma 's ma thought she couldent go because it was baking day and granma 's pa was away .
But granma wasent afraid to stay alone and she knew how to bake the bread so she made her ma go and her Aunt Hannah took off the handsome gold locket and chain she was waring round her neck and hung it on granmas and told her she could ware it all day .
Granma was awful pleased for she had never had any jewelry .
She did all the chores and then was needing the loaves when she looked up and saw a tramp coming in and he was an awful villenus looking tramp .
He dident even pass the time of day but just set down on a chair .
Poor granma was awful fritened and she turned her back on him and went on needing the loaf cold and trembling -- that is , granma was trembling not the loaf .
She was worried about the locket .
She did n't know how she could hide it for to get anywhere she would have to turn round and pass him .
All of a suddent she thought she would hide it in the bread .
She put her hand up and pulled it hard and quick and broke the fastening and needed it right into the loaf .
Then she put the loaf in the pan and set it in the oven .
The tramp hadent seen her do it and then he asked for something to eat .
Granma got him up a meal and when hed et it he began prowling about the kitchen looking into everything and opening the cubbord doors .
Then he went into granma 's mas room and turned the buro drawers and trunk inside out and threw the things in them all about .
All he found was a purse with a dollar in it and he swore about it and took it and went away .
When granma was sure he was really gone she broke down and cried .
She forgot all about the bread and it burned as black as coal .
When she smelled it burning granma run and pulled it out .
She was awful scared the locket was spoiled but she sawed open the loaf and it was there safe and sound .
When her Aunt Hannah came back she said granma deserved the locket because she had saved it so clever and she gave it to her and grandma always wore it and was very proud of it .
And granma used to say that was the only loaf of bread she ever spoiled in her life .
PETER CRAIG .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` Those stories are all very well but they are only true stories .
It 's easy enough to write true stories .
I thought Peter was appointed fiction editor , but he has never written any fiction since the paper started .
That 's not MY idea of a fiction editor .
He ought to make up stories out of his own head . ''
PETER , SPUNKILY : `` I can do it , too , and I will next time .
And it ai n't easier to write true stories .
It 's harder , 'cause you have to stick to facts . ''
FELICITY : `` I do n't believe you could make up a story . ''
PETER : `` I 'll show you ! '' -RRB-
MY MOST EXCITING ADVENTURE It 's my turn to write it but I 'm SO NERVOUS .
My worst adventure happened TWO YEARS AGO .
It was an awful one .
I had a striped ribbon , striped brown and yellow and I LOST IT .
I was very sorry for it was a handsome ribbon and all the girls in school were jealous of it .
-LRB- FELICITY : `` I was n't .
I did n't think it one bit pretty . ''
CECILY : `` Hush ! '' -RRB-
I hunted everywhere but I could n't find it .
Next day was Sunday and I was running into the house by the front door and I saw SOMETHING LYING ON THE STEP and I thought it was my ribbon and I made a grab at it as I passed .
But , oh , it was A SNAKE !
Oh , I can never describe how I felt when I felt that awful thing WRIGGLING IN MY HAND .
I let it go and SCREAMED AND SCREAMED , and ma was cross at me for yelling on Sunday and made me read seven chapters in the Bible but I did n't mind that much after what I had come through .
I would rather DIE than have SUCH AN EXPERIENCE again .
SARA RAY .
TO FELICITY ON HER BERTHDAY Oh maiden fair with golden hair And brow of purest white , Id fight for you I 'd die for you Let me be your faithful knite .
This is your berthday blessed day You are thirteen years old today May you be happy and fair as you are now Until your hair is gray .
I gaze into your shining eyes , They are so blue and bright .
Id fight for you Id die for you Let me be your faithful knite .
A FRIEND .
-LRB- DAN : `` Great snakes , who got that up ?
I 'll bet it was Peter . ''
FELICITY , WITH DIGNITY : `` Well , it 's more than YOU could do .
YOU could n't write poetry to save your life . ''
PETER , ASIDE TO BEVERLEY : `` She seems quite pleased .
I 'm glad I wrote it , but it was awful hard work . '' -RRB-
PERSONALS Patrick Grayfur , Esq. , caused his friends great anxiety recently by a prolonged absence from home .
When found he was very thin but is now as fat and conceited as ever .
On Wednesday , June 20th , Miss Olivia King was united in the bonds of holy matrimony to Dr. Robert Seton of Halifax .
Miss Sara Stanley was bridesmaid , and Mr. Andrew Seton attended the groom .
The young couple received many handsome presents .
Rev. Mr. Marwood tied the nuptial knot .
After the ceremony a substantial repast was served in Mrs. Alex King 's well-known style and the happy couple left for their new home in Nova Scotia .
Their many friends join in wishing them a very happy and prosperous journey through life .
A precious one from us is gone , A voice we loved is stilled .
A place is vacant in our home That never can be filled .
-LRB- THE STORY GIRL : `` Goodness , that sounds as if somebody had died .
I 've seen that verse on a tombstone .
WHO wrote that notice ? ''
FELICITY , WHO WROTE IT : `` I think it is just as appropriate to a wedding as to a funeral ! '' -RRB-
Our school concert came off on the evening of June 29th and was a great success .
We made ten dollars for the library .
We regret to chronicle that Miss Sara Ray met with a misfortune while taking some violent exercise with a wasps ' nest recently .
The moral is that it is better not to monkey with a wasps ' nest , new or old .
Mrs. C. B. Hawkins of Baywater is keeping house for Uncle Roger .
She is a very large woman .
Uncle Roger says he has to spend too much time walking round her , but otherwise she is an excellent housekeeper .
It is reported that the school is haunted .
A mysterious light was seen there at two o'clock one night recently .
-LRB- THE STORY GIRL AND I EXCHANGE KNOWING SMILES BEHIND THE OTHERS ' BACKS . -RRB-
Dan and Felicity had a fight last Tuesday -- not with fists but with tongues .
Dan came off best -- as usual .
-LRB- FELICITY LAUGHS SARCASTICALLY . -RRB-
Mr. Newton Craig of Markdale returned home recently after a somewhat prolonged visit in foreign parts .
We are glad to welcome Mr. Craig back to our midst .
Billy Robinson was hurt last week .
A cow kicked him .
I suppose it is wicked of us to feel glad but we all do feel glad because of the way he cheated us with the magic seed last summer .
On April 1st Uncle Roger sent Mr. Peter Craig to the manse to borrow the biography of Adam 's grandfather .
Mr. Marwood told Peter he did n't think Adam had any grandfather and advised him to go home and look at the almanac .
-LRB- PETER , SOURLY : `` Your Uncle Roger thought he was pretty smart . ''
FELICITY , SEVERELY : `` Uncle Roger IS smart .
It was so easy to fool you . '' -RRB-
A pair of blue birds have built a nest in a hole in the sides of the well , just under the ferns .
We can see the eggs when we look down .
They are so cunning .
Felix sat down on a tack one day in May .
Felix thinks house-cleaning is great foolishness .
ADS .
LOST -- STOLEN -- OR STRAYED -- A HEART .
Finder will be rewarded by returning same to Cyrus E. Brisk , Desk 7 , Carlisle School .
LOST OR STOLEN .
A piece of brown hair about three inches long and one inch thick .
Finder will kindly return to Miss Cecily King , Desk 15 , Carlisle School .
-LRB- CECILY : `` Cyrus keeps my hair in his Bible for a bookmark , so Flossie tells me .
He says he means to keep it always for a remembrance though he has given up hope . ''
DAN : `` I 'll steal it out of his Bible in Sunday School . ''
CECILY , BLUSHING : `` Oh , let him keep it if it is any comfort to him .
Besides , it is n't right to steal . ''
DAN : `` He stole it . ''
CECILY : `` But Mr. Marwood says two wrongs never make a right . '' -RRB-
HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT Aunt Olivia 's wedding cake was said to be the best one of its kind ever tasted in Carlisle .
Me and mother made it .
ANXIOUS INQUIRER : -- It is not advisable to curl your hair with mucilage if you can get anything else .
Quince juice is better .
-LRB- CECILY , BITTERLY : `` I suppose I 'll never hear the last of that mucilage . ''
DAN : `` Ask her who used tooth-powder to raise biscuits ? '' -RRB-
We had rhubarb pies for the first time this spring last week .
They were fine but hard on the cream .
FELICITY KING .
ETIQUETTE DEPARTMENT PATIENT SUFFERER : -- What will I do when a young man steals a lock of my hair ?
Ans. : -- Grow some more .
No , F-l-x , a little caterpillar is not called a kittenpillar .
-LRB- FELIX , ENRAGED : `` I never asked that !
Dan just makes that etiquette column up from beginning to end ! ''
FELICITY : `` I do n't see what that kind of a question has to do with etiquette anyhow . '' -RRB-
Yes , P-t-r , it is quite proper to treat a lady friend to ice cream twice if you can afford it .
No , F-l-c-t-y , it is not ladylike to chew tobacco .
Better stick to spruce gum .
DAN KING .
FASHION NOTES Frilled muslin aprons will be much worn this summer .
It is no longer fashionable to trim them with knitted lace .
One pocket is considered smart .
Clam-shells are fashionable keepsakes .
You write your name and the date inside one and your friend writes hers in the other and you exchange .
CECILY KING .
FUNNY PARAGRAPHS MR. PERKINS : -- `` Peter , name the large islands of the world . ''
PETER : -- `` The Island , the British Isles and Australia . ''
-LRB- PETER , DEFIANTLY : `` Well , Mr. Perkins said he guessed I was right , so you need n't laugh . '' -RRB-
This is a true joke and really happened .
It 's about Mr. Samuel Clask again .
He was once leading a prayer meeting and he looked through the window and saw the constable driving up and guessed he was after him because he was always in debt .
So in a great hurry he called on Brother Casey to lead in prayer and while Brother Casey was praying with his eyes shut and everybody else had their heads bowed Mr. Clask got out of the window and got away before the constable got in because he did n't like to come in till the prayer was finished .
Uncle Roger says it was a smart trick on Mr. Clask 's part , but I do n't think there was much religion about it .
FELIX KING .
CHAPTER XXI .
PEG BOWEN COMES TO CHURCH When those of us who are still left of that band of children who played long years ago in the old orchard and walked the golden road together in joyous companionship , foregather now and again in our busy lives and talk over the events of those many merry moons -- there are some of our adventures that gleam out more vividly in memory than the others , and are oftener discussed .
The time we bought God 's picture from Jerry Cowan -- the time Dan ate the poison berries -- the time we heard the ghostly bell ring -- the bewitchment of Paddy -- the visit of the Governor 's wife -- and the night we were lost in the storm -- all awaken reminiscent jest and laughter ; but none more than the recollection of the Sunday Peg Bowen came to church and sat in our pew .
Though goodness knows , as Felicity would say , we did not think it any matter for laughter at the time -- far from it .
It was one Sunday evening in July .
Uncle Alec and Aunt Janet , having been out to the morning service , did not attend in the evening , and we small fry walked together down the long hill road , wearing Sunday attire and trying , more or less successfully , to wear Sunday faces also .
Those walks to church , through the golden completeness of the summer evenings , were always very pleasant to us , and we never hurried , though , on the other hand , we were very careful not to be late .
This particular evening was particularly beautiful .
It was cool after a hot day , and wheat fields all about us were ripening to their harvestry .
The wind gossiped with the grasses along our way , and over them the buttercups danced , goldenly-glad .
Waves of sinuous shadow went over the ripe hayfields , and plundering bees sang a freebooting lilt in wayside gardens .
`` The world is so lovely tonight , '' said the Story Girl .
`` I just hate the thought of going into the church and shutting all the sunlight and music outside .
I wish we could have the service outside in summer . ''
`` I do n't think that would be very religious , '' said Felicity .
`` I 'd feel ever so much more religious outside than in , '' retorted the Story Girl .
`` If the service was outside we 'd have to sit in the graveyard and that would n't be very cheerful , '' said Felix .
`` Besides , the music is n't shut out , '' added Felicity .
`` The choir is inside . '' ''
` Music has charms to soothe a savage breast , ' '' quoted Peter , who was getting into the habit of adorning his conversation with similar gems .
`` That 's in one of Shakespeare 's plays .
I 'm reading them now , since I got through with the Bible .
They 're great . ''
`` I do n't see when you get time to read them , '' said Felicity .
`` Oh , I read them Sunday afternoons when I 'm home . ''
`` I do n't believe they 're fit to read on Sundays , '' exclaimed Felicity .
`` Mother says Valeria Montague 's stories ai n't . ''
`` But Shakespeare 's different from Valeria , '' protested Peter .
`` I do n't see in what way .
He wrote a lot of things that were n't true , just like Valeria , and he wrote swear words too .
Valeria never does that .
Her characters all talk in a very refined fashion . ''
`` Well , I always skip the swear words , '' said Peter .
`` And Mr. Marwood said once that the Bible and Shakespeare would furnish any library well .
So you see he put them together , but I 'm sure that he would never say that the Bible and Valeria would make a library . ''
`` Well , all I know is , I shall never read Shakespeare on Sunday , '' said Felicity loftily .
`` I wonder what kind of a preacher young Mr. Davidson is , '' speculated Cecily .
`` Well , we 'll know when we hear him tonight , '' said the Story Girl .
`` He ought to be good , for his uncle before him was a fine preacher , though a very absent-minded man .
But Uncle Roger says the supply in Mr. Marwood 's vacation never amounts to much .
I know an awfully funny story about old Mr. Davidson .
He used to be the minister in Baywater , you know , and he had a large family and his children were very mischievous .
One day his wife was ironing and she ironed a great big nightcap with a frill round it .
One of the children took it when she was n't looking and hid it in his father 's best beaver hat -- the one he wore on Sundays .
When Mr. Davidson went to church next Sunday he put the hat on without ever looking into the crown .
He walked to church in a brown study and at the door he took off his hat .
The nightcap just slipped down on his head , as if it had been put on , and the frill stood out around his face and the string hung down his back .
But he never noticed it , because his thoughts were far away , and he walked up the church aisle and into the pulpit , like that .
One of his elders had to tiptoe up and tell him what he had on his head .
He plucked it off in a dazed fashion , held it up , and looked at it .
` Bless me , it is Sally 's nightcap ! '
he exclaimed mildly . '
I do not know how I could have got it on . '
Then he just stuffed it into his pocket calmly and went on with the service , and the long strings of the nightcap hung down out of his pocket all the time . ''
`` It seems to me , '' said Peter , amid the laughter with which we greeted the tale , `` that a funny story is funnier when it is about a minister than it is about any other man .
I wonder why . ''
`` Sometimes I do n't think it is right to tell funny stories about ministers , '' said Felicity .
`` It certainly is n't respectful . ''
`` A good story is a good story -- no matter who it 's about , '' said the Story Girl with ungrammatical relish .
There was as yet no one in the church when we reached it , so we took our accustomed ramble through the graveyard surrounding it .
The Story Girl had brought flowers for her mother 's grave as usual , and while she arranged them on it the rest of us read for the hundredth time the epitaph on Great-Grandfather King 's tombstone , which had been composed by Great-Grandmother King .
That epitaph was quite famous among the little family traditions that entwine every household with mingled mirth and sorrow , smiles and tears .
It had a perennial fascination for us and we read it over every Sunday .
Cut deeply in the upright slab of red Island sandstone , the epitaph ran as follows : -- SWEET DEPARTED SPIRIT Do receive the vows a grateful widow pays , Each future day and night shall hear her speak her Isaac 's praise .
Though thy beloved form must in the grave decay Yet from her heart thy memory no time , no change shall steal away .
Do thou from mansions of eternal bliss Remember thy distressed relict .
Look on her with an angel 's love -- Soothe her sad life and cheer her end Through this world 's dangers and its griefs .
Then meet her with thy well-known smiles and welcome At the last great day .
`` Well , I ca n't make out what the old lady was driving at , '' said Dan .
`` That 's a nice way to speak of your great-grandmother , '' said Felicity severely .
`` How does The Family Guide say you ought to speak of your great-grandma , sweet one ? ''
asked Dan .
`` There is one thing about it that puzzles me , '' remarked Cecily .
`` She calls herself a GRATEFUL widow .
Now , what was she grateful for ? ''
`` Because she was rid of him at last , '' said graceless Dan .
`` Oh , it could n't have been that , '' protested Cecily seriously .
`` I 've always heard that Great-Grandfather and Great-Grandmother were very much attached to each other . ''
`` Maybe , then , it means she was grateful that she 'd had him as long as she did , '' suggested Peter .
`` She was grateful to him because he had been so kind to her in life , I think , '' said Felicity .
`` What is a ` distressed relict ' ? ''
asked Felix . ''
` Relict ' is a word I hate , '' said the Story Girl .
`` It sounds so much like relic .
Relict means just the same as widow , only a man can be a relict , too . ''
`` Great-Grandmother seemed to run short of rhymes at the last of the epitaph , '' commented Dan .
`` Finding rhymes is n't as easy as you might think , '' avowed Peter , out of his own experience .
`` I think Grandmother King intended the last of the epitaph to be in blank verse , '' said Felicity with dignity .
There was still only a sprinkling of people in the church when we went in and took our places in the old-fashioned , square King pew .
We had just got comfortably settled when Felicity said in an agitated whisper , `` Here is Peg Bowen ! ''
We all stared at Peg , who was pacing composedly up the aisle .
We might be excused for so doing , for seldom were the decorous aisles of Carlisle church invaded by such a figure .
Peg was dressed in her usual short drugget skirt , rather worn and frayed around the bottom , and a waist of brilliant turkey red calico .
She wore no hat , and her grizzled black hair streamed in elf locks over her shoulders .
Face , arms and feet were bare -- and face , arms and feet were liberally powdered with FLOUR .
Certainly no one who saw Peg that night could ever forget the apparition .
Peg 's black eyes , in which shone a more than usually wild and fitful light , roved scrutinizingly over the church , then settled on our pew .
`` She 's coming here , '' whispered Felicity in horror .
`` Ca n't we spread out and make her think the pew is full ? ''
But the manoeuvre was too late .
The only result was that Felicity and the Story Girl in moving over left a vacant space between them and Peg promptly plumped down in it .
`` Well , I 'm here , '' she remarked aloud .
`` I did say once I 'd never darken the door of Carlisle church again , but what that boy there '' -- nodding at Peter -- `` said last winter set me thinking , and I concluded maybe I 'd better come once in a while , to be on the safe side . ''
Those poor girls were in an agony .
Everybody in the church was looking at our pew and smiling .
We all felt that we were terribly disgraced ; but we could do nothing .
Peg was enjoying herself hugely , beyond all doubt .
From where she sat she could see the whole church , including pulpit and gallery , and her black eyes darted over it with restless glances .
`` Bless me , there 's Sam Kinnaird , '' she exclaimed , still aloud .
`` He 's the man that dunned Jacob Marr for four cents on the church steps one Sunday .
I heard him . '
I think , Jacob , you owe me four cents on that cow you bought last fall .
Rec ` llect you could n't make the change ? '
Well , you know , ` twould a-made a cat laugh .
The Kinnairds were all mighty close , I can tell you .
That 's how they got rich . ''
What Sam Kinnaird felt or thought during this speech , which everyone in the church must have heard , I know not .
Gossip had it that he changed colour .
We wretched occupants of the King pew were concerned only with our own outraged feelings .
