Lightfoot 's heart sank .
Then he bounded forward into that thicket .
He more than half expected to find no one there , but when he entered that thicket he received the most wonderful surprise in all his life .
There stood Miss Daintyfoot , timid , bashful , but with a look in her eyes which Lightfoot could not mistake .
In that instant Lightfoot understood the meaning of that longing which had kept him hunting for her and of the rage which had filled him when he had discovered the presence of the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
It was love .
Lightfoot knew that he loved Miss Daintyfoot and , looking into her soft , gentle eyes , he knew that Miss Daintyfoot loved him .
CHAPTER XL HAPPY DAYS IN THE GREEN FOREST These were happy days in the Green Forest .
At least , they were happy for Lightfoot the Deer .
They were the happiest days he had ever known .
You see , he had won beautiful , slender , young Miss Daintyfoot , and now she was no longer Miss Daintyfoot but Mrs. Lightfoot .
Lightfoot was sure that there was no one anywhere so beautiful as she , and Mrs. Lightfoot knew that there was no one so handsome and brave as he .
Wherever Lightfoot went , Mrs. Lightfoot went .
He showed her all his favorite hiding-places .
He led her to his favorite eating-places .
She did not tell him that she was already acquainted with every one of them , that she knew the Green Forest quite as well as he did .
If he had stopped to think how day after day she had managed to keep out of his sight while he hunted for her , he would have realized that there was little he could show her which she did not already know .
But he did n't stop to think and proudly led her from place to place .
And Mrs. Lightfoot wisely expressed delight with all she saw quite as if it were all new .
Of course , all the little people of the Green Forest hurried to pay their respects to Mrs. Lightfoot and to tell Lightfoot how glad they felt for him .
And they really did feel glad .
You see , they all loved Lightfoot and they knew that now he would be happier than ever , and that there would be no danger of his leaving the Green Forest because of loneliness .
The Green Forest would not be the same at all without Lightfoot the Deer .
Lightfoot told Mrs. Lightfoot all about the terrible days of the hunting season and how glad he was that she had not been in the Green Forest then .
He told her how the hunters with terrible guns had given him no rest and how he had had to swim the Big River to get away from the hounds .
`` I know , '' replied Mrs. Lightfoot softly .
`` I know all about it .
You see , there were hunters on the Great Mountain .
In fact , that is how I happened to come down to the Green Forest .
They hunted me so up there that I did not dare stay , and I came down here thinking that there might be fewer hunters .
I would n't have believed that I could ever be thankful to hunters for anything , but I am , truly I am . ''
There was a puzzled look on Lightfoot 's face .
`` What for ? ''
he demanded .
`` I ca n't imagine anybody being thankful to hunters for anything . ''
`` Oh , you stupid , '' cried Mrs. Lightfoot .
`` Do n't you see that if I had n't been driven down from the Great Mountain , I never would have found you ? ''
`` You mean , I never would have found you , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` I guess I owe these hunters more than you do .
I owe them the greatest happiness I have ever known , but I never would have thought of it myself .
Is n't it queer how things which seem the very worst possible sometimes turn out to be the very best possible ? ''
Blacky the Crow is one of Lightfoot 's friends , but sometimes even friends are envious .
It is so with Blacky .
He insists that he is quite as important in the Green Forest as is Lightfoot and that his doings are quite as interesting .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Mr._Mocker.txt.out
I THE LONE TRAVELER When Mistress Spring starts from way down South to bring joy and gladness to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , a great many travelers start with her or follow her .
Winsome Bluebird goes just a little way ahead of her , for Winsome is the herald of Mistress Spring .
Then comes Honker the Goose , and all the world hearing his voice from way , way , up in the blue , blue sky knows that truly Mistress Spring is on her way .
And with her come Little Friend the Song Sparrow , and Cheerful Robin and Mr. and Mrs. Redwing .
Then follow other travelers , ever so many of them , all eager to get back to the beautiful Green Forest and Green Meadows .
Now there are a few feathered folk who think the far away South is quite good enough for them to live there all the year round .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard used to think that way .
Indeed , he used to think that there was no place like the dear `` Ol' Souf , '' and it was n't until he went looking for his old friend , Unc ' Billy Possum , who had come up to live in the Green Forest , that he found out how nice it is where the Laughing Brook dances down through the Green Forest to the Smiling Pool and then through the Green Meadows to the Big River .
Now , when he is sure that there is no danger that he will have cold feet or that he will catch cold in his bald head , he likes to come up to spend the summer near Unc ' Billy Possum .
Of course Ol' Mistah Buzzard has wonderful stories to tell when he goes back South in the fall , and all winter long he warms his toes on the chimney tops while he tells his friends about the wonderful things he has seen in his travels .
Now there is a certain friend of his , and of Unc ' Billy Possum , who had listened to these stories for a long time without seeming in the least interested .
But he was .
Yes , Sir , he was .
He was so much interested that he began to wish he could see for himself all these things Ol' Mistah Buzzard was telling about .
But he did n't say a word , not a word .
He just listened and listened and then went on about his business .
But when all the other little people in feathers had flown to that far away country Ol' Mistah Buzzard had told about , even Ol' Mistah Buzzard himself , then did this friend of his , and of Unc ' Billy Possum , make up his mind that he would go too .
He did n't say anything about it to any one , but he just started off by himself .
Now of course he did n't know the way , never having been that way before , but he kept on going and going , keeping out of sight as much as he could , and asking no questions .
Sometimes he wondered if he would know the Green Forest when he reached it , and then he would remember how Ol' Mistah Buzzard dearly loves to fly round and round high up in the blue , blue sky .
`` All Ah done got to do is to keep on going till Ah see Brer Buzzard , '' thought he .
So he traveled and traveled without speaking to any one , and always looking up in the blue , blue sky .
Then one day he saw a black speck high up in the blue , blue sky , and it went round and round and round and round .
Finally it dropped down , down , down until it disappeared among the trees .
`` It 's Brer Buzzard and that must be the Green Forest where Unc ' Billy Possum lives , '' thought the lone traveler , and chuckled .
`` Ah reckon Ah 'll give Unc ' Billy a surprise .
Yes , Sah , Ah reckon so . ''
And all the time Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol' Mistah Buzzard knew nothing at all about the coming of their old friend and neighbor , but thought him far , far away down in Ol' Virginny where they had left him .
II UNC ' BILLY POSSUM GROWS EXCITED Unc ' Billy Possum sat at the foot of the great hollow tree in which his home is .
Unc ' Billy felt very fine that morning .
He had had a good breakfast , and you know a good breakfast is one of the best things in the world to make one feel fine .
Then Unc ' Billy 's worries were at an end , for Farmer Brown 's boy no longer hunted with his dreadful gun through the Green forest or on the Green Meadows .
Then , too , old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox had moved way , way off to the Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , and so Unc ' Billy felt that his eight little Possums could play about without danger .
So he sat with his back to the great hollow tree , wondering if it would n't be perfectly safe for him to slip up to Farmer Brown 's hen-house in the dark of the next night for some fresh eggs .
He could hear old Mrs. Possum cleaning house and scolding the little Possums who kept climbing up on her back .
As he listened , Unc ' Billy grinned and began to sing in a queer cracked voice : `` Mah ol' woman am a plain ol' dame -- ` Deed she am !
` Deed she am !
Quick with her broom , with her tongue the same -- ` Deed she am !
` Deed she am !
But she keeps mah house all spick and span ; She has good vittles fo ' her ol' man ; She spanks the chillun , but she loves 'em , too ; She sho ' am sharp , but she 's good and true -- ` Deed she am !
` Deed she am ! ''
`` You'all better stop lazing and hustle about fo ' something fo ' dinner , '' said old Mrs. Possum , sticking her sharp little face out of the doorway .
`` Yas 'm , yas 'm , Ah was just aiming to do that very thing , '' replied Unc ' Billy meekly , as he scrambled to his feet .
Just then out tumbled his eight children , making such a racket that Unc ' Billy clapped both hands over his ears .
`` Mah goodness gracious sakes alive ! ''
he exclaimed .
One pulled Unc ' Billy 's tail .
Two scrambled up on his back .
In two minutes Unc ' Billy was down on the ground , rolling and tumbling in the maddest kind of a frolic with his eight children .
Right in the midst of it Unc ' Billy sprang to his feet .
His eyes were shining , and his funny little ears were pricked up .
`` Hush , yo'alls ! ''
he commanded .
`` How do yo'alls think Ah can hear anything with yo'alls making such a racket ? ''
He boxed the ears of one and shook another , and then , when all were still , he stood with his right hand behind his right ear , listening and listening .
`` Ah cert ` nly thought Ah heard the voice of an ol' friend from way down Souf !
Ah cert ` nly did ! ''
he muttered , and without another word he started off into the Green Forest , more excited than he had been since his family came up from `` Ol' Virginny . ''
III UNC ' BILLY 'S VAIN SEARCH Unc ' Billy Possum was excited .
Any one would have known it just to look at him .
He hurried off up the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest without even saying good-by to old Mrs. Possum and all the little Possums .
They just stared after Unc ' Billy and did n't know what to make of it , for such a thing as Unc ' Billy forgetting to say good-by had never happened before .
Yes , indeed , Unc ' Billy certainly was excited .
Old Mrs. Possum sat in the doorway of their home in the great hollow tree and watched Unc ' Billy out of sight .
Her sharp little eyes seemed to grow sharper as she watched .
`` Ah done sent that no-account Possum to hunt fo ' something fo ' dinner , but ` pears to me he 's plumb forgot it already , '' she muttered .
`` Just look at him with his head up in the air like he thought dinner fo ' we uns would drap right down to him out o ' the sky !
If he 's aiming to find a bird 's nest with eggs in it this time o ' year , he sho ` ly am plumb foolish in his haid .
No , Sah !
That onery Possum has clean fo ` gotten what Ah just done tole him , and if we uns am going to have any dinner , Ah cert ` nly have got to flax ` round right smart spry mahself ! ''
Old Mrs. Possum chased the eight little Possums into the house and warned them not to so much as put their heads outside the door while she was gone .
Then she started out to hunt for their dinner , still muttering as she went .
Old Mrs. Possum was quite right .
Unc ' Billy had forgotten all about that dinner .
You see he had something else on his mind .
While he had been playing with his children , he had thought that he heard a voice way off in the distance , and it had sounded very , very much like the voice of an old friend from way down South in `` Ol' Virginny . ''
He had listened and listened but did n't hear it again , and yet he was sure he had heard it that once .
The very thought that that old friend of his might be somewhere in the Green Forest excited Unc ' Billy so that it fairly made him homesick .
He just had to go look for him .
So all the rest of that day Unc ' Billy Possum walked and walked through the Green Forest , peering up in the tree-tops and looking into the bushes until his neck ached .
But nowhere did he catch a glimpse of his old friend .
The longer he looked , the more excited he grew .
`` What 's the matter with you ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk , meeting Unc ' Billy on the Crooked Little Path near the top of the hill .
`` Nuffin , nuffin , Sah !
Ah 'm just walking fo ' mah health , '' replied Unc ' Billy over his shoulder , as he hurried on .
You see he did n't like to tell any one what he thought he had heard , for fear that it might not be true , and then they would laugh at him .
`` Did n't suppose Unc ' Billy ever worried about his health , '' muttered Jimmy Skunk with a puzzled look , as he watched Unc ' Billy disappear .
Just as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun dropped out of sight behind the Purple Hills , Unc ' Billy gave it up and turned toward home .
His neck ached from looking up in the tree-tops , and his feet were sore from walking .
And just then Unc ' Billy for the first time thought of that dinner that old Mrs. Possum had sent him to get .
Unc ' Billy sat down and mopped his brow in dismay .
`` Ah ` specks Ah 'm in fo ' it this time , sho ' enough ! ''
he said .
IV UNC ' BILLY COMES HOME Unc ' Billy Possum crept along in the darkest shadows he could find as he drew near to the great hollow tree which is his home .
`` Ah ` specks Ah 'm in fo ' it .
Ah ` specks Ah sho ` ly am in fo ' it this time , '' he kept muttering .
So Unc ' Billy crept along in the black shadows until he got where he could look up and see his own doorway .
Then he sat down and watched a while .
All was still .
There was n't a sound in the great hollow tree .
`` Perhaps mah ol' woman am out calling , and Ah can slip in and go to bed before she gets back , '' said Unc ' Billy hopefully to himself , as he started to climb the great hollow tree .
But at the first scratch of his toe-nails on the bark the sharp face of old Mrs. Possum appeared in the doorway .
`` Good evening , mah dear , '' said Unc ' Billy , in the mildest kind of a voice .
Old Mrs. Possum said nothing , but Unc ' Billy felt as if her sharp black eyes were looking right through him .
Unc ' Billy grinned a sickly kind of grin as he said : `` Ah hopes yo'alls are feeling good tonight . ''
`` Where 's that dinner Ah sent yo ' fo ' ? ''
demanded old Mrs. Possum sharply .
Unc ' Billy fidgeted uneasily .
`` Ah done brought yo ' two eggs from Farmer Brown 's hen-house , '' he replied meekly .
`` Two eggs !
Two eggs !
How do yo ' think Ah am going to feed eight hungry mouths on two eggs ? ''
snapped old Mrs. Possum .
Unc ' Billy hung his head .
He had n't a word to say .
He just could n't tell her that he had spent the whole day tramping through the Green Forest looking for an old friend , whose voice he had thought he heard , when he ought to have been helping her find a dinner for the eight little Possums .
No , Sir , Unc ' Billy had n't a word to say .
My , my , my , how old Mrs. Possum did scold , as she came down the great hollow tree to get the two eggs .
Unc ' Billy knew that he deserved every bit of it .
He felt very miserable , and he was too tired to have a bit of spirit left .
So he just sat at the foot of the great hollow tree and said nothing , while old Mrs. Possum bit a hole in the end of one egg and began to suck it .
All the time she was looking at Unc ' Billy with those sharp eyes of hers .
When she had finished the egg , she pushed the other over to him .
`` Yo ' eat that ! ''
she said shortly .
`` Yo ' look as if yo ' had n't had anything to eat to-day '' -LRB- which was true -RRB- .
`` Then yo ' hustle up to bed ; it 's all ready fo ' yo ' . ''
Unc ' Billy did as he was bid , and as he tucked himself into his snug , warm bed he murmured sleepily : `` Ol' Mrs. Possum has a sharp , sharp tongue , But her bark is worse than her bite .
For Ol' Mrs. Possum has a soft , soft heart Though she hides it way out of sight . ''
V SAMMY JAY IS INDIGNANT Sammy Jay was indignant .
Yes , Sir , Sammy Jay was very much put out .
In fact , Sammy was just plain downright mad !
It is bad enough to be found out and blamed for the things you really do , but to be blamed for things that you do n't do and do n't even know anything about is more than even Mr. Jaybird can stand .
It had begun when he met Jimmy Skunk early in the morning .
`` Hello , Sammy Jay !
What were you doing up so late last night ? ''
said Jimmy Skunk .
`` I was n't up late ; I went to bed at my usual hour , just after Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple Hills , '' replied Sammy Jay .
`` Oh , come , Sammy Jay , be honest for once in your life !
It was a long , long , long time after Mr. Sun went to bed that I heard you screaming and making a great fuss over in the Green Forest .
What was it all about ? ''
Sammy Jay stamped one foot .
He was beginning to lose his temper .
You know he loses it very easily .
`` I am honest ! ''
he screamed .
`` I tell you I went to bed just as I always do , and I did n't wake up until this morning . ''
`` Then you must talk something dreadful in your sleep , '' said Jimmy Skunk , turning his back on Sammy Jay , who was so mad by this time that for a few minutes he could n't find his tongue .
When he did , he flew off screaming at the top of his lungs .
He was still screaming when he flew over the Old Briar-patch where Peter Rabbit was just beginning to doze off .
Peter was sleepy .
He did n't like to have his morning nap disturbed .
`` Hi , Sammy Jay !
Did n't you make racket enough last night to give honest folks a little peace and quiet to-day ? ''
shouted Peter Rabbit .
Sammy Jay flew up into a young cherry tree on the edge of the Old Briar-patch , and his eyes were fairly red with anger as he glared down at Peter Rabbit .
`` What 's the joke , Peter Rabbit ?
That 's the second time this morning that I 've been told that I was screaming last night , when all the time I was fast asleep , '' said Sammy Jay .
`` Then it 's a funny way you have of sleeping , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
`` Come , Sammy , be honest and tell me what you were yelling ` thief ' for , over in the Green Forest ? ''
`` Peter Rabbit , you and Jimmy Skunk are crazy , just as crazy as loons ! ''
sputtered Sammy Jay .
`` I tell you I was asleep , and I guess I ought to know ! ''
`` And I guess I know your voice when I hear it ! ''
replied Peter Rabbit .
`` It 's bad enough in daytime , but if I was you , I 'd quit yelling in the night .
Some one of these times Hooty the Owl will hear you , and that will be the end of you and your noise .
Now go away ; I want to sleep . ''
Sammy went .
He was mad clear through , and yet he did n't know what to make of it .
Were they just trying to make him mad , or had he really been screaming in his sleep ?
He flew over to the Smiling Pool .
Jerry Muskrat looked up and saw him .
`` What were you yelling about in the night , Sammy Jay ? ''
asked Jerry .
This was too much .
Sammy Jay let his wings and his tail droop dejectedly and hung his head .
`` I do n't know .
I really do n't know anything about it , '' he said .
VI SAMMY JAY THINKS HE 'S GOING CRAZY `` Sammy Jay screams all day long , And now what do you think ?
Why , Sammy sits and yells all night And does n't sleep a wink ! ''
Everywhere he went Sammy Jay heard that shouted after him .
Dozens and dozens of times a day he heard it .
At first he lost his temper and was the very maddest Jaybird ever seen on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest .
`` It is n't true !
It is n't true !
It is n't true ! ''
he would scream at the top of his lungs .
And then everybody within hearing would shout : `` It is true ! ''
Sammy would just dance up and down and scream and scream and scream , he was so angry .
And then he was sure to hear some one pipe up : `` Sammy 's mad and we are glad , And we know how to tease him !
But some dark night he 'll get a fright , For Hooty 'll come and seize him ! ''
That really began to worry him .
At first he had thought that it was all a joke on the part of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , and that they had made up the story about hearing him in the night .
Then he began to think that it might be true that he did talk in his sleep , and this worried him a whole lot .
If he did that , Hooty the Owl would surely find him sooner or later , and in the morning there would n't be anything left of him but a few feathers from his fine coat .
The more he thought about it , the more worried Sammy Jay became .
He lost his appetite and began to grow thin .
He kept out of sight whenever possible and no longer screamed `` Thief !
thief ! ''
through the Green Forest .
In fact his voice was rarely heard during the day .
But it seemed that he must be talking just as much as ever in the night .
At least everybody said that he was .
Worse still , different ones said that they heard him in different places in the Green Forest and even down on the Green Meadows .
Could it be that he was flying about as well as talking in his sleep ?
And nobody believed him when he said that he was asleep all night .
They thought that he was awake and doing it purposely .
They might have known that he could n't see in the night , for his eyes are made for daylight and not for darkness , like the eyes of Boomer the Nighthawk and Hooty the Owl .
But they did n't seem to think of this , and insisted that almost every night they heard him down in the alders along the Laughing Brook .
Yet every morning when he awoke , Sammy would find himself just where he went to sleep the night before , safely hidden in the thickest part of a big pine-tree .
`` If they are not all crazy , then I must be , '' said .
Sammy Jay to himself , as he turned away from the breakfast which he could not eat .
Then he had a happy idea .
`` Why did n't I think of it before ?
I 'll sleep all day , and then I 'll keep awake all night and see what happens then ! ''
he exclaimed .
So Sammy Jay hurried away to the darkest part of the Green Forest and tried to sleep through the day .
VII SAMMY JAY SITS UP ALL NIGHT Sammy Jay sat in the dark and shivered .
Sammy was lonely , more lonely than he had ever supposed anybody could be .
And to tell the truth Sammy Jay was scared .
Yes , Sir , that was just the way Sammy Jay felt -- scared .
Every time a leaf rustled , Sammy jumped almost out of his skin .
His heart went pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat .
He could hear it himself , or at least he thought he could , and it seemed to him that if Hooty the Owl should happen to come along , he would surely hear it .
You see it was the first time in all his life that Sammy Jay had not gone to sleep just as soon as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had pulled his rosy night-cap on and gone to bed behind the Purple Hills .
But to-night Sammy sat in the darkest , thickest part of a big pine-tree and kept blinking his eyes to keep from going to sleep .
He had made up his mind that he would n't go to sleep at all that night , no matter how lonely and frightened he might be .
He just would keep his eyes and his ears wide open .
What was he doing it for ?
Why , because all the little meadow and forest people insisted that every night lately Sammy Jay had spent a great part of his time screaming in the harsh , unpleasant way he does during the day , and some of them were very cross , because they said that he waked them up when they wanted to sleep .
Now Sammy knew better .
He never in his life had screamed in the night unless -- well , unless he did it in his sleep and did n't know it .
So he had made up his mind to keep awake all of this night and see if in the morning any one would say that he had waked them up .
He had watched the black shadows creep through the Green Forest and grow blacker and blacker .
The blacker they grew , the lonesomer he became .
By and by it was so dark that he could n't see anything at all , and every little noise made him shiver .
It is easy to be brave in daylight , but in the dark , when you can not see a thing , every little sound seems twice as loud as it really is and gives you such a creepy , creepy feeling .
Sammy Jay had it now .
He felt so creepy that it seemed as if he would crawl right out of his skin .
He kept saying over and over to himself : `` There 's nothing to be afraid of .
There 's nothing to be afraid of .
I 'm just as safe as if I was fast asleep . ''
But still he shivered and shook .
By and by , looking up through the top of the big pine-tree , he saw the little stars come out one by one .
They seemed to be looking right down at him and winking at him in the jolliest way .
Somehow , he did n't feel quite so lonely then , and he tried to wink back .
Then little , soft , silvery bars of light began to creep through the branches of the trees and along the ground .
They were moonbeams , and Sammy could see just a little , a very little .
He began to feel better .
`` Whooo-hoo-hoo , whooo-hoo ! ''
It was a terrible sound , fierce and hungry .
Sammy Jay nearly fell from his perch .
He opened his mouth to scream with fright .
Then he remembered just in time and closed it without a sound .
It was the hunting-cry of Hooty the Owl .
Sammy Jay sat huddled in a little , forlorn , shivering heap , while twice more that fierce cry rang through the Green Forest .
Then a shadow floated over the big pine-tree .
Hooty the Owl had flown away without seeing him , and Sammy breathed easier .
VIII SAMMY JAY IS GLAD HE SAT UP ALL NIGHT Sammy Jay was having no trouble in keeping awake now .
Not a bit !
He could n't have gone to sleep if he wanted to -- not since Hooty the Owl had frightened him almost out of his skin with his fierce , hungry hunting-call .
He was too frightened and shivery and creepy to sleep .
But he did n't want to , anyway .
So he sat in the thickest part of the big pine-tree , shivering and creepy and miserable .
He heard Bobby Coon go down the Lone Little Path on his way to Fanner Brown 's cornfield , where the corn was just beginning to get milky and sweet .
Out in a patch of bright moonlight he saw Peter Rabbit jumping and dancing and having the greatest kind of a time all by himself .
Pretty soon Peter was joined by his cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Such antics as they did cut up !
Sammy Jay almost laughed aloud as he watched .
It was less lonely with them there , and he did want to call to them dreadfully .
But that would never , never do , for no one must know that he was sitting up awake all night .
By and by along came Jimmy Skunk , walking out into the patch of bright moonlight .
He touched noses with Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , which is one way of saying `` good evening '' in the Green Forest .
`` Is n't it most time for Sammy Jay to scream in his sleep ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit .
Sammy pricked up his ears .
`` Scream in his sleep !
Nonsense !
Sammy Jay is n't any more asleep than I am .
He just screams out of pure meanness to wake up and frighten good honest folks who want to sleep .
For my part , I do n't see what any one wants to sleep for on such a fine night as this , anyway .
It serves 'em right if they do get waked up , '' replied Jimmy Skunk .
`` But Sammy Jay says that he does n't do it and does n't know anything about it , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Have you ever seen him scream in the night , Jimmy Skunk ? ''
`` No , I do n't have to , '' replied Jimmy Skunk .
`` I guess I know his voice when I hear it , and I 've heard it enough times the last few nights , goodness knows !
Tell me this , Peter Rabbit : who else is there that cries ` Thief !
thief !
thief ! '
and screams like Sammy Jay ? ''
Peter shook his head .
`` I guess you 're right , Jimmy Skunk .
I guess you 're right , '' he said .
`` Of course I 'm right .
There , now ! ''
Jimmy held up one hand to warn Peter to keep still .
Sure enough , there was Sammy Jay 's voice , way over in the alders beside the Laughing Brook , and it was screaming `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
They all heard it .
Sammy Jay heard it , too , and scratched himself to be sure that he was awake and sitting there in the big pine-tree .
`` It 's my voice , and it is n't my voice , for I have n't made a sound , and it 's over in the alders while I 'm here in my own big pine-tree , '' muttered Sammy Jay to himself .
`` I 'm glad I kept awake , but -- `` Maybe I 'm going crazy !
My wits are getting hazy !
That 's surely me , Yet here I be !
Oh , dear , I sure am crazy ! ''
IX THE MYSTERY GROWS `` Can a body be a body , Yet not a body be ?
Tell a body , anybody , Didst such a body see ? ''
Of course it was Sammy Jay who was humming such a foolish-sounding rhyme as that .
But really , it was n't so foolish in Sammy 's case , after all .
He had sat up wide awake all night just to try to find out why it was that all the little meadow and forest people had complained that he spent part of each night screaming `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
just as he does in the daytime .
Now he knew .
Sitting in the dark in his big pine-tree , he had heard his own voice , or what sounded like his own voice , screaming down in the alders by the Laughing Brook .
Sammy had scratched himself to be sure that he was really and truly awake and not dreaming , for there was his voice down in the alders , and there was himself sitting in the big pine tree with his mouth closed as tight as he could shut it .
Did ever a Jaybird have anything so queer as that to puzzle him ?
Anyway , Sammy Jay knew that he did n't scream in his sleep , and there was a whole lot of comfort in that .
He could eat with a better appetite now .
You see , when he had been told that he was screaming in the night , Sammy had been afraid that he was doing it in his sleep ; and if he was doing that , why , some dark night Hooty the Owl might hear him and find him , and that would be the end of him .
Now he knew that he could go to sleep in peace , just as he always had .
Sammy Jay brushed and smoothed out his handsome blue coat and made himself as pert and smart-appearing as possible .
He had been so worried lately that he had n't taken much care of himself , which is very unusual for Sammy Jay .
Now , however , he felt so much better that he began to think about his looks .
When he had finished dressing , he started for the alders beside the Laughing Brook just to have a look around .
Of course he did n't expect to find his voice down there , for who ever saw a voice ?
Still he thought that he might find something that would explain the mystery .
He hunted all around in the thicket of alders beside the Laughing Brook , but nothing unusual did he find .
Then for a long time he sat as still as still can be , studying and thinking .
Finally he thought to himself : `` I 'll just see how my voice really does sound down here , '' and opening his mouth he screamed : `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Then out popped Jenny Wren , and she was so mad that she could n't sit still a second .
My , my , my , how she did scold !
`` You ought to be ashamed of yourself , Sammy Jay !
You ought to be ashamed of yourself ! ''
she sputtered .
`` Is n't it enough to keep us awake half the night without coming down and screaming all day ? ''
`` I have n't been down here in the night , and I have n't kept anybody awake ! ''
replied Sammy Jay indignantly .
Jenny Wren came right up in front of Sammy Jay and hopped up and down .
She was so mad that with every word she jerked her funny little tail so that Sammy Jay almost had to laugh .
`` Do n't tell that to me , Sammy Jay !
Do n't tell that to me ! ''
she cried .
`` Did n't I see you with my own eyes sitting in that alder over there ?
Do n't tell that to me !
You ought to be ashamed of yourself ! ''
X SAMMY JAY SEEKS ADVICE Sammy Jay had a headache , such a headache !
He had thought and thought and thought , until now it seemed to him that the world surely had turned topsy-turvy .
His poor little head was all in a whirl , and that was what made it ache .
First he had been accused of screaming in the night to waken and scare the little meadow and forest people who wanted to sleep .
Then he had kept awake all night to find out what it meant , and he had heard what sounded like his own voice screaming `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
down by the Laughing Brook , when all the time he was sitting in the dark in his own big pine-tree in the Green Forest .
That was bad enough , but to have Jenny Wren tell him that she had seen him with her own eyes sitting in an alder tree and screaming , at the very time that he had been back there in the big pine-tree , was more than Sammy Jay could stand .
It was no wonder that his head ached .
Hardly any of the little meadow and forest people would speak to him now .
They just turned their backs to him whenever he met them .
He did n't mind this so much , because he knew that none of them had ever liked him very well .
You see he had played too many mean tricks for any one to really like him .
But he did hate to have them blame him for something that he had n't done .
`` It 's too much for me ! ''
said Sammy Jay .
`` It 's too much for me !
I 've thought and thought , until my brain just goes round and round and makes me dizzy , and my thoughts turn somersaults over each other .
I must get help somewhere .
Now , who can I go to , so few will have anything to do with me ? ''
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
Sammy Jay pricked up his ears and spread his wings .
`` My cousin , Blacky the Crow ! ''
he cried .
`` Why did n't I think of him before ?
He 's very smart , is Blacky the Crow , and perhaps he can tell me what to do . ''
So Sammy Jay hurried as fast as he could to lay his troubles before Blacky the Crow .
Blacky 's eyes twinkled as he listened to Sammy Jay 's tale of woe .
When Sammy had finished and had asked for Blacky 's advice , Blacky went into a black study .
Sammy sat and waited patiently , for he felt certain that Blacky 's shrewd head would find some plan to solve the mystery .
`` I do n't know how you can find out who it is that 's making you all this trouble , but I 'll tell you how you can prove that it is n't you that screams in the night , '' said Blacky the Crow after a while .
`` How ? ''
asked Sammy Jay eagerly .
`` Go away from the Green Meadows and the Green Forest and stay away for a week , '' replied Blacky the Crow .
`` Go up to the far-away Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , where Reddy and Granny Fox are living .
Have Boomer the Nighthawk see you go to bed there , and then ask him to come straight down here and tell Peter Rabbit just where you are .
Peter will tell every one else , for he ca n't keep his tongue still , and then they 'll all know that it is n't you that screams in the night . ''
`` The very thing ! ''
cried Sammy Jay .
`` I 'll move at once ! ''
And off he hurried to prepare to move up to the Old Pasture .
XI HOW BLACKY THE CROW 'S PLAN WORKED OUT `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Old Granny Fox , trotting along a cow-path in the Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , heard it and grinned .
Reddy Fox , sitting in the doorway of their new home under the great rocks in the midst of the thickest clump of bushes and young trees , heard it , too , and he grinned even more broadly than Granny Fox .
It sounded good to him , did that harsh scream , for it was the first time he had heard the voice of a single one of the little meadow and forest people since he and Granny Fox had moved up to the lonesome Old Pasture .
`` Now I wonder what has brought Sammy Jay way up here ? ''
said Reddy , as he limped out to the edge of the thick tangle of bushes and young trees .
Pretty soon he caught sight of a wonderful coat of bright blue with white trimmings .
`` Hi , Sammy Jay !
What are you doing up here ? ''
shouted Reddy Fox .
Sammy Jay heard him and hurried over to where Reddy Fox was sitting .
`` Hello , Reddy Fox !
How are you feeling ? ''
said Sammy Jay .
`` Better , thank you .
What are you doing way up here in this lonely place ? ''
replied Reddy .
`` It 's a long story , '' said Sammy Jay .
`` Tell it to me , '' begged Reddy Fox .
So Sammy Jay told him all about the trouble he had had on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , and how hardly any one would speak to him because they said that he kept them awake by screaming in the night .
He told how he had sat up all night and had heard what sounded like his own voice , when all the time he was sitting with his mouth shut as tight as tight could be .
Then he told about Blacky the Crow 's plan , which was that Sammy should come to the Old Pasture and live for a week .
Then , if the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest heard screams in the night , they would know that it was not Sammy Jay who was waking them up .
Reddy Fox chuckled as he listened .
You know misery likes company , and it tickled Reddy to think that some one else had been forced to leave the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
That night Sammy Jay found a comfortable place which seemed quite safe in which to go to sleep .
Just after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple Hills , Sammy saw Boomer the Nighthawk circling round high in the air catching his dinner .
Sammy screamed twice .
Boomer heard him and down he came with a rush .
`` Why , Sammy Jay , what under the sun are you doing way off here ? ''
exclaimed Boomer .
`` Going to bed , '' replied Sammy .
`` Say , Boomer , will you do something for me ? ''
`` That depends upon what it is , '' replied Boomer .
`` It 's just an errand , '' replied Sammy Jay , and then he asked Boomer to go down to the Green Meadows and tell Peter Rabbit how he , Boomer , had seen Sammy going to bed up in the far-away Old Pasture .
Boomer promised that he would , and off he started .
He found Peter and told him .
Of course Peter was very much surprised and , because he can not keep his tongue still , he started off at once to tell everybody he could find , just as Blacky the Crow had thought he would do .
XII NO ONE BELIEVES PETER RABBIT Peter Rabbit sat in his secret place in the middle of the Old Briar-patch .
Peter was doing some very hard thinking .
He ought to have been asleep , for he had been out the whole night long .
But instead of sleeping , he was wide awake and thinking and thinking .
You see early the night before Boomer the Nighthawk had told Peter that Sammy Jay was up in the far-away Old Pasture .
Boomer had seen him going to bed there and had come straight down to tell Peter .
This was great news , and Peter could hardly wait for Boomer to stop talking , he was so anxious to spread the news over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , for Peter is a great gossip and can not keep his tongue still .
So he had hurried this way and that way , telling every one he met how Sammy Jay had moved away to the Old Pasture .
But no one believed him .
`` Wait and see !
Wait and see ! ''
said Jimmy Skunk .
`` It 's just a trick , '' said Bobby Coon .
`` But Boomer the Nighthawk saw him up there going to bed and talked with him ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit .
`` Perhaps he did and then again perhaps he did n't , '' replied Bobby Coon , carefully washing an ear of sweet milky corn that he had brought down to the Laughing Brook from Farmer Brown 's corn-field , for Bobby Coon is very , very neat and always washes his food before eating .
`` For my part , '' he continued , `` I believe that Boomer the Nighthawk just made up that story to help Sammy Jay fool us . ''
`` But that would be a wrong story , and I do n't believe that Boomer would do anything like that ! ''
cried Peter .
Just then there was a shrill scream of `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
over in the alder bushes .
It certainly sounded like Sammy Jay 's voice .
`` What did I tell you ?
Now what do you think ? ''
cried Bobby Coon .
Peter did n't know what to think , and he said so .
He left Bobby to eat his corn and spent the rest of the night telling every one he met what Boomer the Nighthawk had said , but of course no one believed it , and every one laughed at him , for had n't they heard Sammy Jay screaming that very night ?
So now Peter sat in the Old Briar-patch thinking and thinking , when he should have been asleep .
Finally he yawned and stretched and then started along one of his private little paths .
`` I 'll just run up to the Green Forest and try to find Sammy Jay , '' he said .
So Peter hunted and hunted all through the Green Forest for Sammy Jay , and asked everybody he met if they had seen Sammy .
But no one had , though every one took pains to tell Peter that they had heard Sammy in the night .
At last Peter found Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
He was muttering and grumbling to himself , and he did n't see Peter .
Peter stopped to listen , which was , of course , a very wrong thing to do , and what he heard gave Peter an idea .
XIII STICKY-TOES THE TREE TOAD POURS OUT HIS TROUBLES Sticky-toes was quite upset .
There was no doubt about it .
Either he had gotten out of the wrong side of his bed that morning , or his breakfast had disagreed with him , or something had happened to make him lose his temper completely .
`` Do n't know what it means !
Do n't know what it means !
Do n't know what it means ! ''
croaked Sticky-toes the Tree Toad , over and over again .
`` Heard it last night and the night before that and before that and before that and before that , and I do n't know what it means ! ''
`` Do n't know what what means ? ''
asked Peter Rabbit , whose curiosity would not let him keep still .
`` Hello , Long-ears !
I do n't know that it 's any of your business ! ''
said Sticky-toes .
Peter allowed that it was n't , but that as he had so much on his own mind he could n't help being interested when he found that Sticky-toes had troubles too .
Then he told Sticky-toes all about how Boomer the Nighthawk had said that he had seen Sammy Jay going to bed up in the far-away Old Pasture , and how that very night Sammy Jay 's voice had been heard screaming down in the alders beside the Laughing Brook .
Sticky-toes nodded his head .
`` I heard it , '' said he .
`` But how could Sammy Jay be down here if he went to bed way off there in the Old Pasture ?
Tell me that , Sticky-toes ? ''
said Peter Rabbit .
Sticky-toes shook his head .
`` Do n't ask me !
Do n't ask me !
Just tell me how it is that I hear my own voice when I do n't speak a word , '' said Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
`` What 's that ? ''
exclaimed Peter Rabbit .
Then Sticky-toes poured out all his troubles to Peter Rabbit .
They were very much like the troubles of Sammy Jay .
Every night Sticky-toes would hear what sounded like his own voice coming from a tree in which he was not sitting at all , and at a time when he was keeping his mouth shut as tight as he knew how .
In fact , he had been so worried that for several nights he had n't said a word , yet his neighbors had complained that he had been very noisy .
He was getting so worried that he could n't eat .
Peter Rabbit listened with his mouth wide open .
It was just the same kind of a story that Sammy Jay had told .
What under the sun could be going on ?
Peter could n't understand it at all .
It certainly was very , very curious .
He just must find out about it !
XIV PETER RABBIT MEETS UNC ' BILLY POSSUM After Sticky-toes the Tree Toad had poured out his troubles , Peter went back to the Old Briar-patch , more puzzled than ever .
If Sammy Jay was asleep in the far-away Old Pasture on the edge of the mountain , how could he be at the same time down in the Green Forest screaming ?
And if Sticky-toes the Tree Toad sat all night with his mouth shut tight , how could the voice of Sticky-toes be heard in an altogether different tree than the one Sticky-toes was spending the night in ?
Was n't it enough to drive any one crazy ?
The more Peter studied over it , the more puzzled he grew .
The next night he started out for the Green Forest with a new plan in his head .
He would hide down among the alders by the Laughing Brook .
He would see for himself who was screaming with the voice of Sammy Jay and talking with the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
He just had to know !
So across the Green Meadows and up the Lone Little Path hurried Peter Rabbit , so as to reach the Laughing Brook before jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had wholly turned out his light , after going to bed behind the Purple Hills .
He was hurrying so that he almost ran into Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Yo ' seem to be in a powerful hurry , Brer Rabbit , '' said Unc ' Billy .
`` I am , '' replied Peter .
`` I must get down to the Laughing Brook before dark . '' ''
` Pears to me it must be mighty impo ` tant to make yo ' hurry this way , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` It is , '' replied Peter Rabbit .
`` It 's to keep me from going crazy . ''
Unc ' Billy looked at Peter very hard for a few minutes , just as if he thought that Peter was crazy already .
Then he put a hand behind one ear just as if he was hard of hearing .
`` Ah beg yo ' pardon , Brer Rabbit , but Ah don ' seem to have it quite right in mah haid what yo'all am going down to the Laughing Brook for , '' said Unc ' Billy in the politest way .
Peter chuckled in spite of himself , as he once more replied : `` It 's to keep me from going crazy . ''
Then Peter told Unc ' Billy all about Sammy Jay 's troubles and all about the troubles of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
It was the first Unc ' Billy Possum had heard about it , for Unc ' Billy had been away from the Green Forest and the Green Meadows for a visit and had just returned .
He listened to all that Peter Rabbit had to say , and a funny , pleased sort of look came into his eyes .
`` Ah reckon Ah will go along with yo'all , '' said he .
So Unc ' Billy Possum went with Peter Rabbit to the Laughing Brook , where they hid underneath the alders .
XV PETER RABBIT AND UNC ' BILLY POSSUM KEEP WATCH `` Now , '' said Peter Rabbit , as they settled themselves to watch , `` we 'll see for ourselves whether Sammy Jay and Sticky-toes have been telling the truth , or if they have been dreaming .
If we hear Sammy Jay 's voice down here in the alders to-night , we ought to be able to see who is using it , for pretty soon the moon will be up , and then we can see easily . ''
Unc ' Billy Possum did n't say anything , not a word , but if Peter Rabbit had noticed Unc ' Billy 's eyes , he would have seen a very knowing look there .
The fact is , Unc ' Billy was thinking of the time when he thought he had heard the voice of an old friend of his from way down South , and he was beginning to suspect that he had been right , and that his old friend really was somewhere in the Green Forest .
`` Ah reckon he sho ` ly is , and he 's plumb full of his ol' tricks , just like he used to be , '' muttered Unc ' Billy .
`` What 's that ? ''
asked Peter , pricking up his ears .
`` Nothing , nothing , Brer Rabbit , nothing at all .
Ah has a habit of just talking foolishness to mahself , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
Peter looked at him sharply , but Unc ' Billy 's shrewd little face looked so innocent that Peter was ashamed to doubt what Unc ' Billy said .
`` I guess that we better not talk any more , for fear we might be heard and have our watch for nothing , '' said Peter .
Unc ' Billy agreed , and side by side they sat as still as if they were made of wood or stone .
The black shadows came early to the alders beside the Laughing Brook , and soon it was very dark , so dark that Peter and Unc ' Billy , whose eyes are meant for seeing in the dark as well as in the light , had hard work to make out much .
It grew later and later , and still there was not a sound of the voice of either Sammy Jay or Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
Peter began to get hungry .
The more he thought about it , the hungrier he grew .
He was just about ready to give it up , when the moonbeams began to creep in among the alder trees just as they had crept through the Green Forest the night that Sammy Jay kept awake all night .
The moonbeams crept farther and farther into the thicket of alder trees and bushes where Peter Rabbit and Unc ' Billy Possum were hiding .
Then it was that they heard the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad .
At any rate , Peter was sure that it was the voice of Sticky-toes until a fierce , angry whisper came down to him from the branch of an alder just over his head .
Peter looked up .
There sat Sticky-toes himself , but his voice was coming from an alder on the other side of the Laughing Brook .
`` Do you hear that ?
Do you hear that ?
There 's my voice over there , and here I am here !
What do you make of it ? ''
whispered Sticky-toes .
Peter did n't know what to make of it .
All he could do was to gaze at Sticky-toes as if he thought Sticky-toes was a ghost .
Just then the voice of Sammy Jay , or what sounded for all the world like Sammy 's voice , screamed `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
from the very spot where they had just heard the voice of Sticky-toes .
Peter turned to ask Unc ' Billy Possum what he thought , but Unc ' Billy was n't there .
XVI UNC ' BILLY POSSUM DOES A LITTLE SURPRISING HIMSELF When Unc ' Billy Possum first heard what sounded like the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad , he had thought , just as Peter Rabbit did , that Sticky-toes was over in an alder tree on the other side of the Laughing Brook .
But when he heard a whisper right over their heads and looked up to see Sticky-toes himself , Unc ' Billy almost chuckled out loud .
`` Yo ' ca n't fool Uncle Billy , So do n't go fo ' to try !
Ah knows yo ' , yes , Ah knows yo ' -- Ah knows yo ' , Mistah Sly . ''
He said that to himself and quite under his breath , for all the time that Peter Rabbit and Sticky-toes the Tree Toad were whispering together , Unc ' Billy Possum was stealing away under the alder bushes .
Unc ' Billy is very soft-footed , oh , very soft-footed indeed , when he wants to be .
You see one must needs be very soft-footed to steal eggs in Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
So Unc ' Billy stole away without making a sound , and when Peter Rabbit turned to speak to him , there was no Unc ' Billy there .
Peter rubbed his eyes and stared all around , this way and that way , but no sign of Unc ' Billy could he see .
This so surprised Peter Rabbit that he felt queer all over .
First there was the voice of Sticky-toes over on the other side of the Laughing Brook , when all the time Sticky-toes was n't there at all .
Now here Unc ' Billy Possum had disappeared , just as if the earth had swallowed him up .
`` This is n't any place for me ! ''
said Peter Rabbit , and off he started for the Green Meadows as fast as he could go , lipperty-lipperty-lip !
All this time Unc ' Billy Possum had been crawling along without the tiniest sound .
When he came to the Laughing Brook , he went up a way until he found a big tree with a branch stretching clear across .
Of course Unc ' Billy could have swum across , but he did n't feel like swimming that night , so he climbed up the big tree , ran out along the branch , let himself down by the tail , and then dropped .
He was across the Laughing Brook without even wetting his feet .
Unc ' Billy did n't waste any time .
Just as soft-footed as before , he crept along in the darkest shadows , until he was right under the alder tree from which the complaining voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad seemed to come .
Unc ' Billy listened , and the longer he listened , the broader grew the smile on Unc ' Billy 's shrewd face .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
It certainly sounded for all the world like Sammy Jay 's voice , and it was right over Unc ' Billy 's head .
Unc ' Billy peered up through the alders .
The leaves were so thick that he could not see very well , but what he did see was enough .
It was a long tail , a tail of feathers hanging down .
It was n't Sammy Jay 's tail , either .
`` Don ' yo'all think that yo'all have joked enough ? ''
asked Unc ' Billy , trying hard to keep from chuckling aloud .
A cry of `` Thief '' stopped right in the middle , and two sharp eyes looked down in surprise at Unc ' Billy .
XVII THE MEETING OF TWO OLD FRIENDS `` Why , Unc ' Billy Possum !
What are yo'all doing way up here ? ''
cried the owner of the long tail and sharp eyes .
`` This is mah home now .
Ah done moved up here , '' replied Unc ' Billy . ''
` Pears to me that the question is what am yo'all doing way off up here ?
Ah thought Ah sho ` ly done hear your voice the other day , and Ah most wore mah po ' feet out looking fo ' yo ' .
Ah thought Ah was mistaken , but now Ah reckon that Ah was right , after all .
My , but Ah am right smart glad to see yo ' ! ''
`` Thank yo ' , Unc ' Billy , '' replied the owner of the long tail and the sharp eyes .
`` Ah reckon yo ' ca n't be any more glad to see me , than Ah am to see yo ' .
Fact is , Ah was getting right smart lonesome .
Ah done been lying low daytimes , because , yo ' know , Ah 'm a stranger up here , and Ah was afraid that strangers might not be welcome in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows . '' ''
` Pears like if all Ah hear am true , that yo ' have n't done much lying low nights .
Ah reckon yo ' done make up fo ' those lonesome feelings .
Yes , Sah , Ah reckon so .
Mah goodness , man , yo ' done set everybody to running around like they was crazy ! ''
exclaimed Unc ' Billy .
The owner of the long tail and sharp eyes threw back his head and laughed , and his laugh was like the most beautiful music .
It made Unc ' Billy feel good just listening to it .
`` Sammy Jay done moved away to the Ol' Pasture since things were so unpleasant here because everybody said he screamed all night , '' continued Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` He sat up all of one night just to make sho ' that he did n't scream in his sleep , and he did n't make a sound the whole night long .
The next mo ` ning everybody said that he had been screaming just the same , and po ' Sammy Jay just moved away .
Yo ' ought to be ashamed to play such jokes . ''
Unc ' Billy grinned as he said it .
`` Thief !
thief ! ''
came in Sammy Jay 's voice right out of the mouth of the owner of the long tail and sharp eyes .
Then both little rascals laughed fit to kill themselves .
`` Yo ' come over to my house , '' said Unc ' Billy .
`` My ol' woman sho ' will be right smart glad to see yo ' , and she 's gwine to be powerful surprised , deed she am !
She done been laughing at me fo ' a week , because Ah was sho ' Ah done hear yo ' that day . ''
So off the two started to see old Mrs. Possum , and for the rest of that night Sticky-toes the Tree Toad listened in vain for the sound of his own voice when his lips were closed tight .
XVIII THE MISCHIEF-MAKERS There was a dreadful time on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
Oh , dear , dear , dear !
It really was dreadful !
First Sammy Jay had been accused of screaming in the night and keeping honest little meadow and forest people awake when they wanted to sleep .
And all the time Sammy Jay had n't made a sound .
Then Sticky-toes the Tree Toad had been accused of being noisy , when all the time he was sitting with his mouth closed as tight as tight could be .
All this was bad enough , but now things were so much worse that it was getting so that no one would have anything to do with any one else .
Those who had been the very best of friends would pass without speaking .
You see , everybody on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest knows everybody else by their voice .
So when Jimmy Skunk , happening along near the Smiling Pool , heard Mrs. Redwing 's voice , he did n't waste any time trying to see Mrs. Redwing .
Instead , he went straight over and told Johnny Chuck the unkind things that he had overheard Mrs. Redwing saying about Johnny .
In the same way Bobby Coon heard the voice of Blacky the Crow in Farmer Brown 's corn-field , and when Bobby listened , he heard some things not at all nice about himself .
And so it was , all over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest .
It seemed as if almost everybody was heard talking about some one else , and never saying nice things .
The only one who still managed to keep on good terms with everybody was Unc ' Billy Possum .
No one had ever heard him saying unkind things about others and so , because now there were so few others to talk to , everybody was glad to see Unc ' Billy coming , and he soon was the best liked of all the little meadow and forest people .
He went about trying to smooth out the troubles , and to see him you never , never would have guessed that he had anything to do with making them .
My , my , no , indeed !
But every night when the moon was up , Unc ' Billy would have a caller , who would come and sit just outside the doorway of Unc ' Billy 's house and scream `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Then out would pop Unc ' Billy 's sharp little face , and then his fat little body would follow , and he and his friend with the long tail and the sharp eyes , for of course you have guessed that is who it was , would put their heads together and laugh and chuckle as if they were enjoying the best joke ever was .
Then they would whisper and sometimes talk right out loud , when they felt sure that no one was near to hear .
What were they talking about ?
Why , about the trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , and what a joke it all was , and what was the best way to keep it up .
You see , the reason that no one heard Unc ' Billy saying mean things or heard any mean things said about Unc ' Billy was because it was Unc ' Billy himself and his friend with the long tail and the sharp eyes who were making all the trouble .
Yes , Sir , they were the mischief-makers .
It was great fun to fool everybody so .
They never once stopped to think how very , very uncomfortable it kept everybody feeling .
XIX BOBBY COON MAKES A DISCOVERY Bobby Coon had overslept .
Usually Bobby is astir shortly after jolly , round , red Mr. Sun has gone to bed behind the Purple Hills .
But Bobby is very irregular in his habits .
He is very fond of traveling about in the night , is Bobby Coon , and when he does that , he sleeps the greater part of the day .
But once in a while he takes a notion to travel about by daylight , and when he does that , why of course he has to sleep part of the night , anyway .
Bobby Coon is a very lucky chap , very lucky indeed , for he can see in the dark , and yet , unlike Hooty the Owl , he has no trouble in seeing in the broad daylight as well .
This night Bobby Coon had overslept because he had not gone to bed until the middle of the day .
He had been prowling about and getting into mischief all of the night before and had not started for home until jolly , round Mr. Sun was smiling down from right overhead .
By this time Bobby Coon had sticks in his eyes .
He was so sleepy that it seemed to him that he never , never could get home .
He was stumbling along through the Green Forest when he came to a hollow log .
What do you think he did ?
Why , he crawled in there , and in two minutes was fast asleep , just as comfortable as if he had been in his own hollow tree .
There Bobby slept all the rest of the day and until long after Mr. Sun had pulled on his rosy nightcap .
Perhaps he would have slept there all night , if he had n't been waked up .
It was the cry of `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
that waked him .
It seemed to come from right over his head .
`` Sammy Jay ought to be ashamed of himself , waking honest people like this ! ''
muttered Bobby Coon , as he yawned and stretched .
At first he could n't think where he was .
Then he remembered .
He was just getting ready to crawl out of the hollow log , when he heard something which made him stop and try to sit up so suddenly that he bumped his head .
What he heard was the voice of Unc ' Billy Possum , and he knew by the sound that Unc ' Billy was sitting on the very log in which he himself was hiding .
`` This is the greatest joke that ever was ! ''
said Unc ' Billy .
`` Pretty soon nobody on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest will speak to anybody else excepting me .
Yo ' cert ` nly have got all your ol' tricks with yo ' . ''
`` Yes , '' replied a voice which Bobby Coon had never heard before , but which he knew right away must belong to some one who had come from way down South where Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol' Mistah Buzzard had come from .
`` Yes , '' said the voice , `` Ah done got all mah ol' tricks and some more .
But it 's easy , Unc ' Billy , it 's easy to fool your new friends , because Ah reckon they never have been fooled this way before .
Don ' yo ' think it is most time to stop ?
Ah do n't want to show mahself in daylight .
Besides , if Ah 'm found out , nobody ai n't gwine to have anything to do with me . ''
`` Do n't yo ' worry .
Nobody 's gwine to find yo ' out .
We 'll keep it up just a day or two longer .
Yo ' cert ` nly am powerful good at imitating other people 's voices .
Ah wonder that Ol' Mistah Buzzard has n't got his eye on yo ' before now , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum .
Bobby Coon had become wide awake as he listened .
He tried hard to get a peep at the stranger with Unc ' Billy , but all he could see was a long tail of feathers .
Bobby waited until Unc ' Billy and his friend had left .
Then he crawled out of the hollow log , and he was chuckling to himself .
`` I 'll just have a little talk with Ol' Mistah Buzzard , '' said Bobby to himself .
XX BOBBY COON AND OL' MISTAH BUZZARD HAVE A TALK Bobby Coon had spent the largest part of the forenoon sitting at the foot of the tall dead tree on which Ol' Mistah Buzzard likes to roost .
All the time Ol' Mistah Buzzard had been sailing ` round and ` round in circles way up in the blue , blue sky , sometimes so high that to Bobby he looked like just a tiny speck .
Bobby had watched him until his own neck ached .
Mistah Buzzard hardly ever moved his wings .
He just sailed and sailed and sailed up and down and ` round and ` round , just as if it was no work at all but pure fun , as indeed it was .
Bobby Coon had waited so long that it was almost more than he could do to be patient any longer , but if you really want a thing , it is worth waiting for , and so Bobby gave a great sigh and tried to make himself more comfortable .
At last Mistah Buzzard came sailing down straight for the tall dead tree .
With two or three flaps of his great wings he settled down on his favorite perch and looked down at Bobby Coon .
`` Good mo ` ning , Brer Coon , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Good morning , Mistah Buzzard ; I hope you are feeling very well this morning , '' replied Bobby Coon as politely as he knew how .
`` Fair to middling well , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard , with a twinkle in his eyes .
`` What can Ah do fo ' yo'all ? ''
`` If you please , Mistah Buzzard , you can tell me if there is anybody way down South where you come from who can make his voice sound just like the voices of other people .
Is there ? ''
Bobby was using his very politest manner .
`` Cert ` nly !
Cert ` nly ! ''
chuckled Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` It 's Mistah Mockah the Mocking-bird .
Why , that bird just likes to go around making trouble ; he just naturally likes to .
He just goes around mocking everything and everybody he hears , until sometimes it seems like yo ' could n't be sure of yo ' own voice when yo ' hear it .
Why do yo ' ask , Brer Coon ? ''
`` Because he is right here in the Green Forest now , '' replied Bobby Coon .
`` What 's that yo ' am a-saying , Brer Coon ?
What 's that ? ''
cried Ol' Mistah Buzzard , growing very excited .
Then Bobby Coon told Ol' Mistah Buzzard all about the trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest ; how Sammy Jay had moved away to the Old Pasture so that no one could say that he screamed in the night , and yet how his voice was still heard ; how Sticky-toes the Tree Toad was almost crazy because his neighbors said he was noisy , when all the time he was sitting with his mouth tight closed ; and finally , how all the little meadow and forest people refused to speak to one another because of the many unkind things which had been overheard .
And Bobby told what he had overheard the night before when Unc ' Billy Possum and a stranger had sat on the very log in which Bobby had been taking , a nap .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard chuckled .
`` Yo ' might have known Unc ' Billy was behind all that trouble , '' said he .
`` Yes , Sah , yo ' might have known that ol' rascal was behind it .
When Unc ' Billy Possum and Mockah get their haids together , there sho ` ly is gwine to be something doing . ''
XXI BOBBY COON HAS A BUSY DAY Bobby Coon had left Ol' Mistah Buzzard sitting on his favorite dead tree .
Every few minutes Ol' Mistah Buzzard would chuckle .
`` Brer Coon is right smart , and Ah reckon Unc ' Billy Possum is gwine to get a taste of his own medicine .
Yes , Sah , Ah reckon he is ! ''
said Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Then he chuckled and chuckled , as he spread his broad wings and said : `` Ah reckon Ah better be up in the blue , blue sky where Ah can look right down and see all the fun . ''
In the meantime Bobby Coon was hurrying back and forth across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , calling on all the little people who live there .
He whispered a few words in the ear of one and then hurried on to whisper to the next one .
When Bobby would first begin to whisper , the one to whom he was whispering would shake his head and look as if he did n't believe a word of what Bobby was saying .
Then Bobby would point to Ol' Mistah Buzzard sailing ` round and ` round high up in the blue , blue sky where everybody could see him , and whisper some more .
When he got through , he always carried away with him a promise that just what he had asked should be done .
Bobby Coon had thought of a plan to turn the joke on Unc ' Billy Possum , and this was why he was hurrying back and forth whispering in the ears of every one who lived on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest ; that is everybody excepting Unc ' Billy Possum and his family .
It was the busiest day that Bobby Coon could remember .
It was the very next morning that Unc ' Billy Possum was trotting along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
He was just starting out on his daily round of calls , and he was grinning as only Unc ' Billy Possum can grin .
`` Mah name is Billy Possum and mah home 's a hollow tree !
By day or night Ah wander forth -- it 's all the same to me !
Ah fill mah stomach with an egg , or sometimes it is fish ; In fact Ah always helps mahself to anything Ah wish .
Fo ' mah name is Billy Possum and mah other name is Smart ; To catch yo ' Uncle Billy yo ' must make an early start . ''
Unc ' Billy was singing this to himself as he trotted along the Crooked Little Path , and all the time he was thinking of the great joke that he and his old friend Mr. Mocker , from way down South , were playing on the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
This morning he was on his way to call first on Johnny Chuck .
Half-way down the hill he met Bobby Coon .
Unc ' Billy stopped and held out one hand as he said `` Good mo ` ning , Brer Coon .
How do yo'all do this fine mo ` ning ? ''
Bobby Coon walked right past as if he did n't see Unc ' Billy at all .
He did n't even look at him .
`` What 's the matter with yo ' this mo ` ning , Brer Coon ? ''
shouted Unc ' Billy .
Bobby Coon kept right on , without so much as turning his head .
Unc ' Billy watched him , and there was a puzzled look on Unc ' Billy 's face .
`` Must be that Brer Coon has something powerful impo ` tant on his mind , '' muttered Unc ' Billy , as he started on .
Pretty soon he met Jimmy Skunk who had always been one of Unc ' Billy 's best friends .
Jimmy was looking under every stick and stone for beetles for his breakfast .
`` Good mo ` ning , Neighbor Skunk ! ''
said Unc ' Billy in his heartiest voice .
Jimmy Skunk , who never hurries , kept right on pulling over sticks and stones just as if he did n't see or hear Unc ' Billy at all .
In fact , when he pulled over one stone , he dropped it right on Unc ' Billy 's tail and did n't seem to hear Unc ' Billy 's `` Ouch ! ''
as he pulled his tail from under the stone .
Jimmy just went right on about his business .
Unc ' Billy sat down and scratched his head .
His face had lost the cheerful grin with which he had started out .
Pretty soon he started on , but every few minutes he would stop and scratch his head thoughtfully .
He did n't know what to make of Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk .
He was so surprised that he had n't known whether to be angry or not .
`` Ah must find out what Brer Chuck knows about it , '' thought Unc ' Billy , as he trotted on .
XXII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM SEES MANY BACKS Unc ' Billy Possum was very sober as he hurried down the Lone Little Path to Johnny Chuck 's house .
He was very sober indeed , and that is very unusual for Unc ' Billy Possum .
It was very plain to see that something was bothering him .
Johnny Chuck was sitting on his doorstep when Unc ' Billy Possum came in sight , trotting down the Lone Little Path .
As soon as Johnny saw him , he turned his back squarely towards Unc ' Billy and pretended to be very much interested in something way off in the other direction .
Unc ' Billy came to a stop about two feet behind Johnny Chuck .
`` A-hem ! ''
said Unc ' Billy .
Johnny Chuck sat there without moving , just as if he had n't heard .
`` It 's a fine mo ` ning , '' said Unc ' Billy in his pleasantest voice .
Instead of replying , Johnny Chuck suddenly kicked up his heels and disappeared inside his house .
Unc ' Billy scratched his head with one hand and then with the other , and all the time his face grew more and more puzzled-looking .
After a while he started on .
Pretty soon he came to where Danny Meadow Mouse was playing all by himself .
He did n't know that Unc ' Billy was about until Unc ' Billy said : `` Good mo ` ning , Brer Meadow Mouse . ''
Now Danny had always been delighted to see Unc ' Billy Possum and to have a chat with him whenever Unc ' Billy would stop .
But this morning no sooner did Danny hear Unc ' Billy 's voice than he turned his back to Unc ' Billy .
This was more than Unc ' Billy could stand .
He reached out to take Danny Meadow Mouse by the ear to turn him around , but somehow Danny must have guessed what Unc ' Billy meant to do , for without a word he ducked out of sight under the long grass , and hunt as he would Unc ' Billy could n't find him .
So Unc ' Billy Possum gave it up and went on down to the Smiling Pool .
There Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink and Jerry Muskrat were at play .
They saw Unc ' Billy coming , and when he reached the bank of the Smiling Pool there sat the three little scamps on the Big Rock , but all he could see was their backs .
`` Hello , yo'alls ! ''
shouted Unc ' Billy .
Splash !
All three had dived into the Smiling Pool , and though Unc ' Billy waited and waited , he did n't see one of them again .
Even Grandfather Frog turned his back to him and seemed very deaf that morning , though Unc ' Billy tried and tried to make him hear .
All day long , wherever he went , Unc ' Billy saw only the backs of his friends , and none of them seemed to see him at all .
So he went home to his hollow tree in the Green Forest early that day to try and study out what it all meant .
XXIII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM CONSULTS OL' MISTAH BUZZARD Ol' Mistah Buzzard has very sharp eyes .
Nobody has sharper eyes than he .
Swinging ` round and ` round and ` round and ` round in great circles way up in the blue , blue sky , so high that sometimes he looks like nothing but a little speck , he looks down and sees everything going on in the Green Meadows and a great deal that goes on in the Green Forest .
There is very little that Ol' Mistah Buzzard misses .
So all the day that Unc ' Billy Possum had been tramping over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest and finding everybody 's back turned to him , Ol' Mistah Buzzard had been watching and laughing fit to kill himself .
You see he knew all about Bobby Coon 's visit to all the little meadow and forest people , and how Bobby had whispered in the ear of each that Unc ' Billy Possum was partly to blame for all the trouble they had had lately .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard watched Unc ' Billy go home and sit down with his chin in his hands and study and study , just as if he had something on his mind .
By and by Unc ' Billy looked up in the sky where Ol' Mistah Buzzard was sailing ` round and ` round .
Then Unc ' Billy hopped up mighty spry .
`` Ah reckon Unc ' Billy ` lows he 'll make me a visit , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard with a chuckle , as he slid down , down out of the sky to the tall dead tree in the Green Forest , which is his favorite roosting-place .
He had n't been there long when Unc ' Billy Possum came shuffling along , just as if he was out walking for his health .
`` Howdy , Mistah Buzzard !
Ah cert ` nly hopes yo'all feel right smart , '' said Unc ' Billy .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard 's eyes twinkled as he replied : `` Ah feel right pert , Brer Possum , thank yo ' .
Ah hopes yo ' feel the same .
Yo ' look like nothing ever bothers yo ' . ''
Unc ' Billy grinned , but at the same time he looked a little foolish as he said : `` That 's right , Mistah Buzzard , that 's right !
Nothing ever does bother me . ''
And all the time he was wondering however he should ask for Ol' Mistah Buzzard 's advice and not let him know that something really was bothering him a great deal .
`` Ah watched yo ' take a long walk this mo ` ning , Brer Possum , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Did yo ' , indeed ; yo ' have keen eyes , Mistah Buzzard ! ''
replied Unc ' Billy .
`` Ah saw yo ' meet a lot of yo ' friends .
It 's fine to have a lot of friends , is n't it , Brer Possum ? ''
said Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Unc ' Billy looked at Ol' Mistah Buzzard sharply .
He wondered if Mistah Buzzard had noticed that all those friends had turned their backs on Unc ' Billy that morning , but Mistah Buzzard looked as sober and solemn as a judge .
All at once Ol' Mistah Buzzard hopped up and turned around , so that all Unc ' Billy could see of him was his back .
Unc ' Billy stared , and for a minute he could n't find his tongue .
Then he heard a noise that sounded very much like a chuckle .
In a few minutes it was a laugh .
Finally Unc ' Billy began to laugh too .
`` Yo ' take mah advice and bring mah ol' friend Mockah out of his hiding-place and introduce him to the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , '' said Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Unc ' Billy shook his head doubtfully .
He was afraid that they might not forgive the tricks that Mr. Mocker had played on them , and then of course he could n't stay in the Green Forest .
So Unc ' Billy scratched his head and thought and thought of how he could get Mr. Mocker out of the trouble he had got him into .
Finally he went home and told all his troubles to old Mrs. Possum and asked her advice , as he should have done in the first place .
`` Serves yo'alls right !
It cert ` nly does serve yo'alls right ! ''
grunted Mrs. Possum , who was so busy looking after her eight lively babies that she had little time for fooling .
`` Ah know it .
It cert ` nly does , '' replied Unc ' Billy meekly .
`` Mischief always trots ahead of grim ol' Mistah Trouble , They look and act enough alike to be each other 's double .
Whoever fools with Mischief 's gwine to wake some day or other And find that Trouble 's just the same as Mischief 's own twin brother . ''
Unc ' Billy Possum listened to this just as if he had never heard it before , and nodded his head as if he agreed with every word of it .
Old Mrs. Possum grumbled and scolded , but all the time she was thinking , and Unc ' Billy knew that she was .
Finally she finished sweeping the doorsteps and looked thoughtfully at Unc ' Billy .
`` Why do n't yo ' give a party fo ' Mistah Mocking-bird ? ''
she inquired .
`` The very thing ! ''
cried Unc ' Billy , and like a flash back came his old-time grin .
XXIV UNC ' BILLY POSSUM GIVES A PARTY Unc ' Billy Possum 's party was the greatest event in the Green Forest since the famous surprise party which Peter Rabbit gave when Unc ' Billy 's family arrived from way down in Ol' Virginny .
At first Unc ' Billy had been afraid that no one would come .
You see , he had been the cause of a lot of the trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , and he knew that now all the little meadow and forest people had found him out .
So he did n't dare send his invitations around by the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind , for fear that no one would pay any heed to them .
Of course that meant that Unc ' Billy must take them around himself .
My , but that was hard work !
It was the hardest work that Unc ' Billy had ever done in all his life , for you know Unc ' Billy is happy-go-lucky and takes things easy .
But getting those invitations around -- well , as Unc ' Billy said , he `` like to wore holes plumb through the soles of mah feet '' before he got all of them delivered .
It took him two whole days .
In the first place there were so many to see .
And then it was such hard work to deliver the invitations , because when his old friends saw him , they would promptly turn their backs to him and pretend they did n't see him at all .
Then Unc ' Billy would take off his hat and make a sweeping bow just as if the one he was talking to was facing instead of back to him , and he would say : `` Ah begs yo ' pardon , ` deed Ah do , Fo ' all the trouble Ah 've caused yo ' , And hopes that Ah may sho ` ly choke If it was meant fo ' more 'n a joke .
So please fo ` give ol' Uncle Bill And show yo ' friendship for him still By taking this as an invite To join with me next Monday night Aroun ' mah famous hollow tree , And help me to full merry be , And also meet a friend of mine ; Ah 'm sho ' yo 's bound to like him fine . ''
Then Unc ' Billy would make another low bow and hurry on to the next one .
Of course he could n't tell whether or not any one would accept the invitation , but he went right on with his plans , just as if he expected everybody to be there .
And when the time came , sure enough everybody was there , even Sammy Jay , to whom Unc ' Billy had sent a special invitation by Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Mistah Buzzard had found Sammy Jay in the far-away Old Pasture , and Sammy had moved back to the Green Forest that very day .
Such a good time as everybody did have !
There were heaps and heaps of good things to eat .
They danced and played hide and seek .
Finally Unc ' Billy climbed up on a stump .
He was dressed in his finest suit , and he wore his broadest grin .
Everybody crowded around to hear what Unc ' Billy was about to say .
`` Mah friends and neighbors , '' said Unc ' Billy , `` Ah have a great surprise fo ' yo'alls . ''
Then he stepped down , and everybody began to wonder and to guess what the surprise could be .
XXV UNC ' BILLY POSSUM 'S SURPRISE Everybody was asking everybody else what the surprise could be which Unc ' Billy had said he had for them .
After he had made his speech , he had scurried out of sight , and no one could find him .
Just about that time Billy Mink remembered that the party had been given to meet a friend of Unc ' Billy Possum , but no friend had appeared .
Billy Mink spoke of the matter to Little Joe Otter , and Little Joe Otter spoke of the matter to Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat spoke of the matter to Sammy Jay , and right while he was speaking there came a shrill scream of `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
from a thick hemlock-tree near by , and the voice was just like the voice of Sammy Jay .
Sammy Jay became greatly excited .
`` There ! ''
he cried !
`` You heard that when you was standing right in front of me and talking to me , Jerry Muskrat .
You know that I was n't making a sound !
I told you that I had n't been screaming in the night , and this proves it ! ''
Jerry Muskrat looked as if he could n't believe his own ears .
Just then the voice of Sticky-toes the Tree Toad began to Croak `` It 's going to rain !
It 's going to rain !
It 's going to rain ! ''
The voice seemed to come out of that very same hemlock-tree .
Everybody noticed it and looked up at the tree , and while they were all trying to see Sticky-toes , something dropped plop right into their midst .
It was Sticky-toes himself , and he had dropped from another tree altogether .
`` You hear it ! ''
he shrieked , dancing up and down he was so angry .
`` You hear it !
It is n't me , is it ?
That 's my voice , yet it is n't mine , because I 'm right here !
How can I be here and over there too ?
Tell me that ! ''
No one could tell him , and Sticky-toes continued to scold and sputter and swell himself up with anger .
But everybody forgot Sticky-toes when they heard the voice of Blacky the Crow calling `` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
from the very same hemlock-tree .
Now no one knew that Blacky the Crow had come to the party , for Blacky never goes abroad at night .
`` Come out , Blacky ! ''
they all shouted .
But no Blacky appeared .
Instead out of that magic hemlock-tree poured a beautiful song , so beautiful that when it ended everybody clapped their hands .
After that there was a perfect flood of music , as if all the singers of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows were in that hemlock-tree .
There was the song of Mr. Redwing and the song of Jenny Wren , and the sweet notes of Carol the Meadowlark and the beautiful happy song of Little Friend the Song Sparrow .
No one had ever heard anything like it , and when it ended every one shouted for more .
Even Sticky-toes the Tree Toad forgot his ill temper .
Instead of more music , out from the hemlock-tree flew a stranger .
He was about the size of Sammy Jay and wore a modest gray suit with white trimmings .
He flew over to a tall stump in the moonlight , and no sooner had he alighted than up beside him scrambled Unc ' Billy Possum .
Unc ' Billy wore his broadest grin .
`` Mah friends of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , Ah wants yo'alls to know mah friend , Mistah Mocking-bird , who has come up from mah ol' home way down in ` Ol' Virginny . '
He has the most wonderful voice in all the world , and when he wants to , he can make it sound just like the voice of any one of yo'alls .
We uns is right sorry fo ' the trouble we uns have made .
It was all a joke , and now we asks yo ' pardon .
Mah friend Mistah Mockah would like to stay here and live , if yo'alls is willing , '' said Unc ' Billy .
XXVI MR. MOCKER MAKES HIMSELF AT HOME At first , when the little meadow and forest people were asked to pardon the tricks that Mr. Mocker and Unc ' Billy Possum had played , a few were inclined not to .
While they were talking the matter over , Mr. Mocker began to sing again that wonderful song of his .
It was so beautiful that by the time it was ended , every one was ready to grant the pardon .
They crowded around him , and because he is good-natured , he made his voice sound just like the voice of each one who spoke to him .
Of course they thought that was great fun , and by the time Unc ' Billy Possum 's moonlight party broke up , Mr. Mocker knew that he had made so many friends that he could stay in the Green Forest as long as he pleased .
But there were a lot of little people who were not at Unc ' Billy Possum 's party , because they go to bed instead of going out nights .
Of course they heard all about the party the next morning and were very anxious indeed to see the stranger with the wonderful voice .
So Mr. Mocker went calling with Ol' Mistah Buzzard , and they visited all the little meadow and forest people who had not been at the party .
Of course Mr. Mocker had to show off his wonderful voice to each one .
When he had finished , he was tuckered put , was Mr. Mocker , but he was happy , for now he had made friends and could live on the edge of the Green Forest with his old friends , Unc ' Billy Possum and Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
So he soon made himself at home and , because he was happy , he would sing all day long .
And sometimes , when the moon was shining , he woke up in the night and would sing for very joy .
Now Peter Rabbit thought the newcomer 's voice such a wonderful thing that he used to follow him around just to hear him fool others by making his voice sound like theirs .
It was great fun .
Peter and Mocker became great friends , and so when Peter heard it whispered around that Mr. Mocking-bird had not come by his wonderful voice honestly , he did n't believe a word of it and was very indignant .
Of course he could n't go to Mr. Mocker himself and ask him , for he did n't want Mr. Mocker to know that such unkind things were being said .
Finally he thought of Grandfather Frog , who is very old and very wise .
`` He 'll know , '' said Peter , as off he posted to the Smiling Pool .
`` If you please , Grandfather Frog , how does it happen that Mr. Mocker has such a wonderful voice and can make it sound like the voice of any one whom he hears ? ''
asked Peter .
Now Grandfather Frog was feeling out of sorts that morning .
He had n't heard the whisper that Mr. Mocker had not come by his voice honestly , and he thought that Peter Rabbit was asking just to hear a story .
`` Chugarum ! ''
replied Grandfather Frog crossly .
`` Go ask Mr. Buzzard , '' And that was all that Peter could get out of him .
So , not knowing what else to do , off started Peter Rabbit to ask Ol' Mistah Buzzard where his friend Mr. Mocking-bird got such a wonderful voice .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard laughed when he heard that some folks said that Mr. Mocker had not come by his voice honestly .
`` There is n't a word of truth in it , Brer Rabbit , '' he declared .
`` Yo ' go tell all your friends that Mistah Mockah is the best loved of all the birds way down Souf . ''
And this is all for the present about the adventures of Mr. Mocker the Mocking-bird .
But others have had adventures , and one is Jerry Muskrat .
The next book will tell all about them .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Paddy_the_Beaver.txt.out
CHAPTER I Paddy the Beaver Begins Work .
Work , work all the night While the stars are shining bright ; Work , work all the day ; I have got no time to play .
This little rhyme Paddy the Beaver made up as he toiled at building the dam which was to make the pond he so much desired deep in the Green Forest .
Of course it was n't quite true , that about working all night and all day .
Nobody could do that , you know , and keep it up .
Everybody has to rest and sleep .
Yes , and everybody has to play a little to be at their best .
So it was n't quite true that Paddy worked all day after working all night .
But it was true that Paddy had no time to play .
He had too much to do .
He had had his playtime during the long summer , and now he had to get ready for the long , cold winter .
Now , of all the little workers in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , and in the Smiling Pool , none can compare with Paddy the Beaver , not even his cousin , Jerry Muskrat .
Happy Jack Squirrel and Striped Chipmunk store up food for the long , cold months when rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost rule , and Jerry Muskrat builds a fine house wherein to keep warm and comfortable , but all this is as nothing to the work of Paddy the Beaver .
As I said before , Paddy had had a long playtime through the summer .
He had wandered up and down the Laughing Brook .
He had followed it way up to the place where it started .
And all the time he had been studying and studying to make sure that he wanted to stay in the Green Forest .
In the first place , he had to be sure that there was plenty of the kind of food that he likes .
Then he had to be equally sure that he could make a pond near where this particular food grew .
Last of all , he had to satisfy himself that if he did make a pond and build a home , he would be reasonably safe in it .
And all these things he had done in his playtime .
Now he was ready to go to work , and when Paddy begins work , he sticks to it until it is finished .
He says that is the only way to succeed , and you know and I know that he is right .
Now Paddy the Beaver can see at night just as Reddy Fox and Peter Rabbit and Bobby Coon can , and he likes the night best , because he feels safest then .
But he can see in the daytime too , and when he feels that he is perfectly safe and no one is watching , he works then too .
Of course , the first thing to do was to build a dam across the Laughing Brook to make the pond he so much needed .
He chose a low , open place deep in the Green Forest , around the edge of which grew many young aspen trees , the bark of which is his favorite food .
Through the middle of this open place flowed the Laughing Brook .
At the lower edge was just the place for a dam .
It would not have to be very long , and when it was finished and the water was stopped in the Laughing Brook , it would just have to flow over the low , open place and make a pond there .
Paddy 's eyes twinkled when he first saw it .
It was right then that he made up his mind to stay in the Green Forest .
So now that he was ready to begin his dam he went up the Laughing Brook to a place where alders and willows grew , and there he began work ; that work was the cutting of a great number of trees by means of his big front teeth which were given him for just this purpose .
And as he worked , Paddy was happy , for one can never be truly happy who does no work .
CHAPTER II Paddy Plans a Pond .
Paddy the Beaver was busy cutting down trees for the dam he had planned to build .
Up in the woods of the North from which he had come to the Green Forest , he had learned all about tree-cutting and dam-building and canal-digging and house-building .
Paddy 's father and mother had been very wise in the Beaver world , and Paddy had been quick to learn .
So now he knew just what to do and the best way of doing it .
You know , a great many people waste time and labor doing things the wrong way , so that they have to be done over again .
They forget to be sure they are right , and so they go ahead until they find they are wrong , and all their work goes for nothing .
But Paddy the Beaver is n't this kind .
Paddy would never have leaped into the spring with the steep sides without looking , as Grandfather Frog did .
So now he carefully picked out the trees to cut .
He could not afford to waste time cutting down a tree that was n't going to be just what he wanted when it was down .
When he was sure that the tree was right , he looked up at the top to find out whether , when he had cut it , it would fall clear of other trees .
He had learned to do that when he was quite young and heedless .
He remembered just how he had felt when , after working hard , oh , so hard , to cut a big tree , he had warned all his friends to get out of the way so that they would not be hurt when it fell , and then it had n't fallen at all because the top had caught in another tree .
He was so mortified that he did n't get over it for a long time .
So now he made sure that a tree was going to fall clear and just where he wanted it .
Then he sat up on his hind legs , and with his great broad tail for a brace , began to make the chips fly .
You know Paddy has the most wonderful teeth for cutting .
They are long and broad and sharp .
He would begin by making a deep bite , and then another just a little way below .
Then he would pry out the little piece of wood between .
When he had cut very deep on one side so that the tree would fall that way , he would work around to the other side .
Just as soon as the tree began to lean and he was sure that it was going to fall , he would scamper away so as to be out of danger .
He loved to see those tall trees lean forward slowly , then faster and faster , till they struck the ground with a crash .
Just as soon as they were down , he would trim off the branches until the trees where just long poles .
This was easy work , for he could take off a good-sized branch with one bite .
On many he left their bushy tops .
When he had trimmed them to suit him and had cut them into the right lengths , he would tug and pull them down to the place where he meant to build his dam .
There he placed the poles side by side , not across the Laughing Brook like a bridge , but with the big ends pointing up the Laughing Brook , which was quite broad but shallow right there .
To keep them from floating away , he rolled stones and piled mud on the bushy ends .
Clear across on both sides he laid those poles until the water began to rise .
Then he dragged more poles and piled them on top of these and wedged short sticks crosswise between them .
And all the time the Laughing Brook was having harder and harder work to run .
Its merry laugh grew less merry and finally almost stopped , because , you see , the water could not get through between all those poles and sticks fast enough .
It was just about that time that the little people of the Smiling Pool decided that it was time to see just what Paddy was doing , and they started up the Laughing Brook , leaving only Grandfather Frog and the tadpoles in the Smiling Pool , which for a little while would smile no more .
CHAPTER III Paddy Has Many Visitors .
Paddy the Beaver knew perfectly well that he would have visitors just as soon as he began to build his dam .
He expected a lot of them .
You see he knew that none of them ever had seen a Beaver at work unless perhaps it was Prickly Porky the Porcupine , who also had come down from the North .
So as he worked he kept his ears open , and he smiled to himself as he heard a little rustle here and then a little rustle there .
He knew just what those little rustles meant .
Each one meant another visitor .
Yes , Sir , each rustle meant another visitor , and yet not one had shown himself .
Paddy chuckled .
`` Seems to me that you are dreadfully afraid to show yourselves , '' said he in a loud voice , just as if he were talking to nobody in particular .
Everything was still .
There was n't so much as a rustle after Paddy spoke .
He chuckled again .
He could just feel ever so many eyes watching him , though he did n't see a single pair .
And he knew that the reason his visitors were hiding so carefully was because they were afraid of him .
You see , Paddy was much bigger than most of the little meadow and forest people , and they did n't know what kind of a temper he might have .
It is always safest to be very distrustful of strangers .
That is one of the very first things taught all little meadow and forest children .
Of course , Paddy knew all about this .
He had been brought up that way .
`` Be sure , and then you 'll never be sorry '' had been one of his mother 's favorite sayings , and he had always remembered it .
Indeed , it had saved him a great deal of trouble .
So now he was perfectly willing to go right on working and let his hidden visitors watch him until they were sure that he meant them no harm .
You see , he himself felt quite sure that none of them was big enough to do him any harm .
Little Joe Otter was the only one he had any doubts about , and he felt quite sure that Little Joe would n't try to pick a quarrel .
So he kept right on cutting trees , trimming off the branches , and hauling the trunks down to the dam he was building .
Some of them he floated down the Laughing Brook .
This was easier .
Now when the little people of the Smiling Pool , who were the first to find out that Paddy the Beaver had come to the Green Forest , had started up the Laughing Brook to see what he was doing , they had told the Merry Little Breezes where they were going .
The Merry Little Breezes had been greatly excited .
They could n't understand how a stranger could have been living in the Green Forest without their knowledge .
You see , they quite forgot that they very seldom wandered to the deepest part of the Green Forest .
Of course they started at once , as fast as they could go , to tell all the other little people who live on or around the Green Meadows , all but Old Man Coyote .
For some reason they thought it best not to tell him .
They were a little doubtful about Old Man Coyote .
He was so big and strong and so sly and smart that all his neighbors were afraid of him .
Perhaps the Merry Little Breezes had this fact in mind , and knew that none would dare go to call on the stranger if they knew that Old Man Coyote was going too .
Anyway , they simply passed the time of day with Old Mr. Coyote and hurried on to tell everyone else , and the very last one they met was Sammy Jay .
CHAPTER IV Sammy Jay Speaks His Mind When Sammy Jay reached the place deep in the Green Forest Where Paddy the Beaver was so hard at work , he did n't hide as had the little four-footed people .
You see , of course , he had no reason to hide , because he felt perfectly safe .
Paddy had just cut a big tree , and it fell with a crash as Sammy came hurrying up .
Sammy was so surprised that for a minute he could n't find his tongue .
He had not supposed that anybody but Farmer Brown or Farmer Brown 's boy could cut down so large a tree as that , and it quite took his breath away .
But he got it again in a minute .
He was boiling with anger , anyway , to think that he should have been the last to learn that Paddy had come down from the North to make his home in the Green Forest , and here was a chance to speak his mind .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
He screamed in his harshest voice .
Paddy the Beaver looked up with a twinkle in his eyes .
`` Hello , Mr. Jay .
I see you have n't any better manners than your cousin who lives up where I come from , '' said he .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
screamed Sammy , hopping up and down , he was so angry .
`` Meaning yourself , I suppose , '' said Paddy .
`` I never did see an honest Jay , and I do n't suppose I ever will . ''
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
laughed Peter Rabbit , who had quite forgotten that he was hiding .
`` Oh , how do you do , Mr. Rabbit ?
I 'm very glad you have called on me this morning , '' said Paddy , just as if he had n't known all the time just where Peter was .
`` Mr. Jay seems to have gotten out of the wrong side of his bed this morning . ''
Peter laughed again .
`` He always does , '' said he .
`` If he did n't , he would n't be happy .
You would n't think it to look at him , but he is happy right now .
He does n't know it , but he is .
He always is happy when he can show what a bad temper he has . ''
Sammy Jay glared down at Peter .
Then he glared at Paddy .
And all the time he still shrieked `` Thief ! ''
as hard as ever he could .
Paddy kept right on working , paying no attention to Sammy .
This made Sammy more angry than ever .
He kept coming nearer and nearer until at last he was in the very tree that Paddy happened to be cutting .
Paddy 's eyes twinkled .
`` I 'm no thief ! ''
he exclaimed suddenly .
`` You are !
You are !
Thief !
Thief ! ''
shrieked Sammy .
`` You 're steeling our trees ! ''
`` They 're not your trees , '' retorted Paddy .
`` They belong to the Green Forest , and the Green Forest belongs to all who love it , and we all have a perfect right to take what we need from it .
I need these trees , and I 've just as much right to take them as you have to take the fat acorns that drop in the fall . ''
`` No such thing ! ''
screamed Sammy .
You know he ca n't talk without screaming , and the more excited he gets , the louder he screams .
`` No such thing !
Acorns are food .
They are meant to eat .
I have to have them to live .
But you are cutting down whole trees .
You are spoiling the Green Forest .
You do n't belong here .
Nobody invited you , and nobody wants you .
You 're a thief ! ''
Then up spoke Jerry Muskrat who , you know , is cousin to Paddy the Beaver .
`` Do n't you mind him , '' said he , pointing at Sammy Jay .
`` Nobody does .
He 's the greatest trouble-maker in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows .
He would steal from his own relatives .
Do n't mind what he says , Cousin Paddy . ''
Now all this time Paddy had been working away just as if no one was around .
Just as Jerry stopped speaking , Paddy thumped the ground with his tail , which is his way of warning people to watch out , and suddenly scurried away as fast as he could run .
Sammy Jay was so surprised that he could n't find his tongue for a minute , and he did n't notice anything peculiar about that tree .
Then suddenly he felt himself falling .
With a frightened scream , he spread his wings to fly , but branches of the tree swept him down with them right into the Laughing Brook .
You see , while Sammy had been speaking his mind , Paddy the Beaver had cut down the very tree in which he was sitting .
Sammy was n't hurt , but he was wet and muddy and terribly frightened -- the most miserable-looking Jay that ever was seen .
It was too much for all the little people who were hiding .
They just had to laugh .
Then they all came out to pay their respects to Paddy the Beaver .
CHAPTER V Paddy Keeps His Promise .
Paddy the Beaver kept right on working just as if he had n't any visitors .
You see , it is a big undertaking to build a dam .
And when that was done there was a house to build and a supply of food for the winter to cut and store .
Oh , Paddy the Beaver had no time for idle gossip , you may be sure !
So he kept right on building his dam .
It did n't look much like a dam at first , and some of Paddy 's visitors turned up their noses when they first saw it .
They had heard stories of what a wonderful dam-builder Paddy was , and they had expected to see something like the smooth , grass-covered bank with which Farmer Brown kept the Big River from running back on his low lands .
Instead , all they saw was a great pile of poles and sticks which looked like anything but a dam .
`` Pooh ! ''
exclaimed Billy Mink , `` I guess we need n't worry about the Laughing Brook and the Smiling Pool , if that is the best Paddy can do .
Why , the water of the Laughing Brook will work through that in no time . ''
Of course Paddy heard him , but he said nothing , just kept right on working .
`` Just look at the way he has laid those sticks ! ''
continued Billy Mink .
`` Seems as if anyone would know enough to lay them across the Laughing Brook instead of just the other way .
I could build a better dam than that . ''
Paddy said nothing ; he just kept right on working .
`` Yes , Sir , '' Billy boasted .
`` I could build a better dam than that .
Why , that pile of sticks will never stop the water . ''
`` Is something the matter with your eyesight , Billy Mink ? ''
inquired Jerry Muskrat .
`` Of course not ! ''
retorted Billy indignantly .
`` Why ? ''
`` Oh , nothing much , only you do n't seem to notice that already the Laughing Brook is over its banks above Paddy 's dam , '' replied Jerry , who had been studying the dam with a great deal of interest .
Billy looked a wee bit foolish , for sure enough there was a little pool just above the dam , and it was growing bigger .
Sammy was terribly put out to think that anything should be going on that he did n't know about first .
You know he is very fond of prying into the affairs of other people , and he loves dearly to boast that there is nothing going on in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows that he does n't know about .
So now his pride was hurt , and he was in a terrible rage as he started after the Merry Little Breezes for the place deep in the Green Forest where they said Paddy the Beaver was at work .
He did n't believe a word of it , but he would see for himself .
Paddy still kept at work , saying nothing .
He was digging in front of the dam now , and the mud and grass he dug up he stuffed in between the ends of the sticks and patted them down with his hands .
He did this all along the front of the dam and on top of it , too , wherever he thought it was needed .
Of course this made it harder for the water to work through , and the little pond above the dam began to grow faster .
It was n't a great while before it was nearly to the top of the dam , which at first was very low .
Then Paddy brought more sticks .
This was easier now , because he could float them down from where he was cutting .
He would put them in place on the top of the dam , then hurry for more .
Wherever it was needed , he would put in mud .
He even rolled a few stones in to help hold the mass .
So the dam grew and grew , and so did the pond above the dam .
Of course , it took a good many days to build so big a dam , and a lot of hard work !
Every morning the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadow would visit it , and every morning they would find that it had grown a great deal in the night , for that is when Paddy likes best to work .
By this time , the Laughing Brook had stopped laughing , and down in the Smiling Pool there was hardly water enough for the minnows to feel safe a minute .
Billy Mink had stopped making fun of the dam , and all the little people who live in the Laughing Brook and Smiling Pool were terribly worried .
To be sure , Paddy had warned them of what he was going to do , and had promised that as soon as his pond was big enough , the water would once more run in the Laughing Brook .
They tried to believe him , but they could n't help having just a wee bit of fear that he might not be wholly honest .
You see , they did n't know him , for he was a stranger .
Jerry Muskrat was the only one who seemed absolutely sure that everything would be all right .
Perhaps that was because Paddy is his cousin , and Jerry could n't help feeling proud of such a big cousin and one who was so smart .
So day by day the dam grew , and pond grew , and one morning Grandfather Frog , down in what had once been the Smiling Pool , heard a sound that made his heart jump for joy .
It was a murmur that kept growing and growing , until at last it was the merry laugh of the Laughing Brook .
Then he knew that Paddy had kept his word , and water would once more fill the Smiling Pool .
CHAPTER VI Farmer Brown 's Boy Grows Curious .
Now it happened that the very day before Paddy the Beaver decided that his pond was big enough , and so allowed the water to run in the Laughing Brook once more , Farmer Brown 's boy took it into his head to go fishing in the Smiling Pool .
Just as usual he went whistling down across the Green Meadows .
Somehow , when he goes fishing , he always feels like whistling .
Grandfather Frog heard him coming and dived into the little bit of water remaining in the Smiling Pool and stirred up the mud at the bottom so that Farmer Brown 's boy should n't see him .
Nearer and nearer drew the whistle .
Suddenly it stopped right short off .
Farmer Brown 's boy had come in sight of the Smiling Pool or rather , it was what used to be the Smiling Pool .
Now there was n't any Smiling Pool , for the very little pool left was too small and sickly looking to smile .
There were great banks of mud , out of which grew the bulrushes .
The lily pads were forlornly stretched out toward the tiny pool of water remaining .
Where the banks were steep and high , the holes that Jerry Muskrat and Billy Mink knew so well were plain to see .
Over at one side stood Jerry Muskrat 's house , wholly out of water .
Somehow , it seemed to Farmer Brown 's boy that he must be dreaming .
He never , never had seen anything like this before , not even in the very driest weather of the hottest part of the summer .
He looked this way and looked that way .
The Green Meadows looked just as usual .
The Green Forest looked just as usual .
The Laughing Brook -- ha !
What was the matter with the Laughing Brook ?
He could n't hear it and that , you know , was very unusual .
He dropped his rod and ran over to the Laughing Brook .
There was n't any brook .
No , sir , there was n't any brook ; just pools of water with the tiniest of streams trickling between .
Big stones over which he had always seen the water running in the prettiest of little white falls were bare and dry .
In the little pools frightened minnows were darting about .
Farmer Brown 's boy scratched his head in a puzzled way .
`` I do n't understand it , '' said he .
`` I do n't understand it at all .
Something must have gone wrong with the springs that supply the water for the Laughing Brook .
They must have failed .
Yes , Sir , that is just what must have happened .
But I never heard of such a thing happening before , and I really do n't see how it could happen .
He stared up into the Green Forest just as if he thought he could see those springs .
Of course , he did n't think anything of the kind .
He was just turning it all over in his mind .
`` I know what I 'll do , I 'll go up to those springs this afternoon and find out what the trouble is , '' he said out loud .
`` They are way over almost on the other side of the Green Forest , and the easiest way to get there will be to start from home and cut across the Old Pasture up to the edge of the Mountain behind the Green Forest .
If I try to follow up the Laughing Brook now , it will take too long , because it winds and twists so .
Besides , it is too hard work . ''
With that , Farmer Brown 's boy went back and picked up his rod .
Then he started for home across the Green Meadows , and for once he was n't whistling .
You see , he was too busy thinking .
In fact , he was so busy thinking that he did n't see Jimmy Skunk until he almost stepped on him , and then he gave a frightened jump and ran , for without a gun he was just as much afraid of Jimmy as Jimmy was of him when he did have a gun .
Jimmy just grinned and went on about his business .
It always tickles Jimmy to see people run away from him , especially people so much bigger than himself ; they look so silly .
`` I should think that they would have learned by this time that if they do n't bother me , I wo n't bother them , he muttered as he rolled over a stone to look for fat beetles .
`` Somehow , folks never seem to understand me . ''
CHAPTER VII Farmer Brown 's Boy Gets Another Surprise .
Across the Old Pasture to the foot of the Mountain back of the Green Forest tramped Farmer Brown 's boy .
Ahead of him trotted Bowser the Hound , sniffing and snuffing for the tracks of Reddy or Granny Fox .
Of course he did n't find them , for Reddy and Granny had n't been up in the Old Pasture for a long time .
But he did find old Jed Thumper , the big gray Rabbit who had made things so uncomfortable for Peter Rabbit once upon a time and gave old Jed such a fright that he did n't look where he was going and almost ran head-first into Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Hi , there , you old cottontail ! ''
yelled Farmer Brown 's boy , and this frightened off Jed still more , so that he actually ran right past his own castle of bullbriars without seeing it .
Farmer Brown 's boy kept on his way , laughing at the fright of old Jed Thumper .
Presently he reached the springs from which came the water that made the very beginning of the Laughing Brook .
He expected to find them dry , for way down on the Green Meadows the Smiling Pool was nearly dry , and the Laughing Brook was nearly dry , and he had supposed that of course the reason was that the springs where the Laughing Brook started were no longer bubbling .
But they were !
The clear cold water came bubbling up out of the ground just as it always had , and ran off down into the Green Forest in a little stream that would grow and grow as it ran and became the Laughing Brook .
Farmer Brown 's boy took off his ragged old straw hat and scowled down at the bubbling water just as if it had no business to be bubbling there .
Of course , he did n't think just that .
The fact is , he did n't know just what he did think .
Here were the springs bubbling away just as they always had .
There was the little stream starting off down into the Green Forest with a gurgle that by and by would become a laugh , just as it always had .
And yet down on the Green Meadows on the other side of the Green Forest there was no longer a Laughing Brook or a Smiling Pool .
He felt as if he ought to pinch himself to make sure that he was awake and not dreaming .
`` I do n't know what it means , '' said he , talking out loud .
`` No , Sir , I do n't know what it means at all , but I 'm going to find out .
There 's a cause for everything in this world , and when a fellow does n't know a thing , it is his business to find out all about it .
I 'm going to find out what has happened to the Laughing Brook , if it takes me a year ! ''
With that he started to follow the little stream which ran gurgling down into the Green Forest .
He had followed that little stream more than once , and now he found it just as he remembered it .
The farther it ran , the larger it grew , until at last it became the Laughing Brook , merrily tumbling over rocks and making deep pools in which the trout loved to hide .
At last he came to the edge of a little open hollow in the very heart of the Green Forest .
He knew what splendid deep holes there were in the Laughing Brook here , and how the big trout loved to lie in them because they were deep and cool .
He was thinking of these trout now and wishing that he had brought along his fishing rod .
He pushed his way through a thicket of alders and then -- Farmer Brown 's boy stopped suddenly and fairly gasped !
He had to stop because there right in front of him was a pond !
He rubbed his eyes and looked again .
Then he stooped down and put his hand in the water to see if it was real .
There was no doubt about it .
It was real water -- a real pond where there never had been a pond before .
It was very still there in the heart of the Green Forest .
It was always very still there , but it seemed stiller than usual as he tramped around the edge of this strange pond .
He felt as if it were all a dream .
He wondered if pretty soon he would n't wake up and find it all untrue .
But he did n't , so he kept on tramping until presently he came to a dam -- a splendid dam of logs and sticks and mud .
Over the top of it the water was running , and down in the Green Forest below he could hear the Laughing Brook just beginning to laugh once more .
Farmer Brown 's boy sat down with his elbows on his knees and his chin in his hands .
He was almost too much surprised to even think .
CHAPTER VIII Peter Rabbit Gets a Ducking .
Farmer Brown 's boy sat with his chin in his hands staring at the new pond in the Green Forest and at the dam which had made it .
That dam puzzled him .
Who could have built it ?
What did they build it for ?
Why had n't he heard them chopping ?
He looked carelessly at the stump of one of the trees , and then a still more puzzled look made deep furrows between his eyes .
It looked -- yes , it looked very much as if teeth , and not an axe , had cut down that tree .
Farmer Brown 's boy stared and stared , his mouth gaping wide open .
He looked so funny that Peter Rabbit , who was hiding under an old pile of brush close by , nearly laughed right out .
But Peter did n't laugh .
No , Sir , Peter did n't laugh , for just that very minute something happened .
Sniff !
Sniff !
That was right behind him at the very edge of the old brushpile , and every hair on Peter stood on end with fright .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
It seemed to Peter that the great voice was right in his very ears .
It frightened him so that he just had to jump .
He did n't have time to think .
And so he jumped right out from under the pile of brush and of course right into plain sight .
And the very instant he jumped there came another great roar behind him .
Of course it was from Bowser the Hound .
You see , Bowser had been following the trail of his master , but as he always stops to sniff at everything he passes , he had been some distance behind .
When he came to the pile of brush under which Peter was hiding he had sniffed at that , and of course he had smelled Peter right away .
Now when Peter jumped out so suddenly , he had landed right at one end of the dam .
The second roar of Bowser 's great voice frightened him still more , and he jumped right up on the dam .
There was nothing for him to do now but go across , and it was n't the best of going .
No , indeed , it was n't the best of going .
You see , it was mostly a tangle of sticks .
Happy Jack Squirrel or Chatterer the Red Squirrel or Striped Chipmunk would have skipped across it without the least trouble .
But Peter Rabbit has no sharp little claws with which to cling to logs and sticks , and right away he was in a peck of trouble .
He slipped down between the sticks , scrambled out , slipped again , and then , trying to make a long jump , he lost his balance and -- tumbled heels over head into the water .
Poor Peter Rabbit !
He gave himself up for lost this time .
He could swim , but at best he is a poor swimmer and does n't like the water .
He could n't dive and keep out of sight like Jerry Muskrat or Billy Mink .
All he could do was to paddle as fast as his legs would go .
The water had gone up his nose and down his throat so that he choked , and all the time he felt sure that Bowser the Hound would plunge in after him and catch him .
And if he should n't why Farmer Brown 's boy would simply wait for him to come ashore and then catch him .
But Farmer Brown 's boy did n't do anything of the kind .
No , Sir , he did n't .
Instead he shouted to Bowser and called him away .
Bowser did n't want to come , but he long ago learned to obey , and very slowly he walked over to where his master was sitting .
`` You know it would n't be fair , old fellow , to try to catch Peter now .
It would n't be fair at all , and we never want to do anything unfair , do we ? ''
said he .
Perhaps Bowser did n't agree , but he wagged his tail as if he did , and sat down beside his master to watch Peter swim .
It seemed to Peter as if he never , never would reach the shore , though really it was only a very little distance that he had to swim .
When he did scramble out , he was a sorry-looking Rabbit .
He did n't waste any time , but started for home as fast as he could go , lipperty-lipperty-lip .
And Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound just laughed and did n't try to catch him at all .
`` Well , I never ! ''
exclaimed Sammy Jay , who had seen it all from the top of a pine tree .
`` Well , I never !
I guess Farmer Brown 's boy is n't so bad , after all . ''
CHAPTER IX Paddy Plans a House .
Paddy the Beaver sat on his dam , and his eyes shone with happiness as he looked out over the shining water of the pond he had made .
All around the edge of it grew the tall trees of the Green Forest .
It was very beautiful and very still and very lonesome .
That is , it would have seemed lonesome to almost anyone but Paddy the Beaver .
But Paddy never is lonesome .
You see , he finds company in the trees and flowers and all the little plants .
It was still , very , very still .
Over on one side was a beautiful rosy glow in the water .
It was the reflection from jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
Paddy could n't see him because of the tall trees , but he knew exactly what Mr. Sun was doing .
He was going to bed behind the Purple Hills .
Pretty soon the little stars would come out and twinkle down at him .
He loves the little stars and always watches for the first one .
Yes , Paddy the Beaver was very happy .
He would have been perfectly happy except for one thing .
Farmer Brown 's boy had found his dam and pond that very afternoon , and Paddy was n't quite sure what Farmer Brown 's boy might do .
He had kept himself snugly hidden while Farmer Brown 's boy was there , and he felt quite sure that Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know who had built the dam .
But for this reason he might , he just might , try to find out all about it , and that would mean that Paddy would always have to be on the watch .
`` But what 's the use of worrying over troubles that have n't come yet , and may never come ?
Time enough to worry when they do come , '' said Paddy to himself , which shows that Paddy has a great deal of wisdom in his little brown head .
`` The thing for me to do now is to get ready for winter , and that means a great deal of work , '' he continued .
`` Let me see , I 've got to build a house , a big , stout , warm house , where I will be warm and safe when my pond is frozen over .
And I 've got to lay in a supply of food , enough to last me until gentle Sister South Wind comes to prepare the way for lovely Mistress Spring .
My , my , I ca n't afford to be sitting here dreaming when there is so much to be done ! ''
With that Paddy slipped into the water and swam all around his new pond to make sure of just the best place to build his house .
Now , placing one 's house in just the right place is a very important matter .
Some people are dreadfully careless about this .
Jimmy Skunk , for instance , often makes the mistake of digging his house -LRB- you know Jimmy makes his house underground -RRB- right where everyone who happens along that way will see it .
Perhaps that is because Jimmy is so independent that he does n't care who knows where he lives .
But Paddy the Beaver never is careless .
He always chooses just the very best place .
He makes sure that it is best before he begins .
So now , although he was quite positive just where his house should be , he swam around the pond to make doubly sure .
Then , when he was quite satisfied , he swam over to the place he had chosen .
It was where the water was quite deep .
`` There must n't be the least chance that the ice will ever get thick enough too close up my doorway , said he , `` and I 'm sure it never will here .
I must make the foundations strong and the walls thick .
I must have plenty of mud to plaster with , and inside , up above the water , I must have the snuggest , warmest room where I can sleep in comfort .
This is the place to build it , and it is high time I was at work . ''
With that Paddy swam over to the place where he had cut the trees for his dam , and his heart was light , for he had long ago learned that the surest way to be happy is to be busy .
CHAPTER X Paddy Starts His House .
Jerry Muskrat was very much interested when he found that Paddy the Beaver , who you know , is his cousin , was building a house .
Jerry is a house-builder himself , and down deep in his heart he very much doubted if Paddy could build as good a house as he could .
His house was down in the Smiling Pool , and Jerry thought it a very wonderful house indeed , and was very proud of it .
It was built of mud and sod and little alder and willow twigs and bulrushes .
Jerry had spent one winter in it , and he had decided to spend another there after he had fixed it up a little .
So , as long as he did n't have to build a brand-new house , he could afford the time to watch his cousin Paddy .
Perhaps he hoped that Paddy would ask his advice .
But Paddy did nothing of the kind .
He had seen Jerry Muskrat 's house , and he had smiled .
But he had taken great pains not to let Jerry see that smile .
He would n't have hurt Jerry 's feelings for the world .
He is too polite and good-natured to do anything like that .
So Jerry sat on the end of an old log and watched Paddy work .
The first thing to build was the foundation .
This was of mud and grass with sticks worked into it to hold it together .
Paddy dug the mud from the bottom of his new pond .
And because the pond was new , there was a great deal of grassy sod there , which was just what Paddy needed .
It was very convenient .
Jerry watched a little while and then , because Jerry is a worker himself , he just had to get busy and help .
Rather timidly he told his big cousin that he would like to have a share in building the new house .
`` All right , '' replied Paddy , `` that will be fine .
You can bring mud while I am getting the sticks and grass . ''
So Jerry dived down to the bottom of the pond and dug up mud and piled it on the foundation and was happy .
The little stars looked down and twinkled merrily as they watched the two workers .
So the foundation grew and grew down under the water .
Jerry was very much surprised at the size of it .
It was ever and ever so much bigger than the foundation for his own house .
You see , he had forgotten how much bigger Paddy is .
Each night Jerry and Paddy worked , resting during the daytime .
Occasionally Bobby Coon or Reddy Fox or Unc ' Billy Possum or Jimmy Skunk would come to the edge of the pond to see what was going on .
Peter Rabbit came every night .
But they could n't see much because , you know , Paddy and Jerry were working under water .
But at last Peter was rewarded .
There , just above the water , was a splendid platform of mud and grass and sticks .
A great many sticks were carefully laid as soon as the platform was above the water , for Paddy was very particular about this .
You see , it was to be the floor for the splendid room he was planning to build .
When it suited him , he began to pile mud in the very middle .
Jerry puzzled and puzzled over this .
Where was Paddy 's room going to be , if he piled up the mud that way ?
But he did n't like to ask questions , so he kept right on helping .
Paddy would dive down to the bottom and then come up with double handfuls of mud , which he held against his chest .
He would scramble out onto the platform and waddle over to the pile in the middle , where he would put the mud and pat it down .
Then back to the bottom for more .
And so the mud pile grew and grew , until it was quite two feet high .
`` Now , '' said Paddy , `` I 'll build the walls , and I guess you ca n't help me much with those .
I 'm going to begin them tomorrow night .
Perhaps you will like to see me do it , Cousin Jerry . ''
`` I certainly will , '' replied Jerry , still puzzling over that pile of mud in the middle .
CHAPTER XI Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat Are Puzzled .
Jerry Muskrat was more and more sure that his big cousin , Paddy the Beaver , did n't know quite so much as he might about house-building .
Jerry would have liked to offer some suggestions , but he did n't quite dare .
You see , he was very anxious not to displease his big cousin .
But he felt that he simply had got to speak his mind to someone , so he swam across to where he had seen Peter Rabbit almost every night since Paddy began to build .
Sure enough , Peter was there , sitting up very straight and staring with big round eyes at the platform of mud and sticks out in the water where Paddy the Beaver was at work .
`` Well , Peter , what do you think of it ? ''
asked Jerry `` What is it ? ''
asked Peter innocently .
`` Is it another dam ? ''
Jerry threw back his head and laughed and laughed .
Peter looked at him suspiciously .
`` I do n't see anything to laugh at , '' said he .
`` Why , it 's a house , you stupid .
It 's Paddy 's new house , '' replied Jerry , wiping the tears of laughter from his eyes .
`` I 'm not stupid ! ''
retorted Peter .
`` How was I to know that that pile of mud and sticks is meant for a house ?
It certainly does n't look it .
Where is the door ? ''
`` To tell you the truth , I do n't think it is much of a house myself , '' replied Jerry .
`` It has got a door , all right .
In fact it has got three .
You ca n't see them because they are under water , and there is a passage from each right up through that platform of mud and sticks , which is the foundation of the house .
It really is a very fine foundation , Peter ; it really is .
But what I ca n't understand is what Paddy is thinking of by building that great pile of mud right in the middle .
When he gets his walls built , where will his bedroom be ?
There wo n't be any room at all .
It wo n't be a house at all -- just a big useless pile of sticks and mud .
Peter scratched his head and then pulled his whiskers thoughtfully as he gazed out at the pile in the water where Paddy the Beaver was at work .
`` It does look foolish , that 's a fact , '' said he .
`` Why do n't you point out to him the mistake he is making , Jerry ?
You have built such a splendid house yourself that you ought to be able to help Paddy and show him his mistakes . ''
Jerry had smiled a very self-satisfied smile when Peter mentioned his fine house , but he shook his head at the suggestion that he should give Paddy advice .
`` I -- I do n't just like to , '' he confessed .
`` You know , he might not like it and -- and it does n't seem as if it would be quite polite .
Peter sniffed .
`` That would n't trouble me any if he were my cousin , '' said he .
Jerry shook his head , `` No , I do n't believe it would , '' he replied , `` but it does trouble me and -- and -- well , I think I 'll wait awhile . ''
Now all this time Paddy had been hard at work .
He was bringing the longest branches which he had cut from the trees out of which he had built his dam , and a lot of slender willow and alder poles .
He pushed these ahead of him as he swam .
When he reached the foundation of his house , he would lean them against the pile of mud in the middle with their big ends resting on the foundation .
So he worked all the way around until by and by the mud pile in the middle could n't be seen .
It was completely covered with sticks , and they were cunningly fastened together at the tops .
CHAPTER XII Jerry Muskrat Learns Something If you think you know it all You are riding for a fall .
Use your ears and use your eyes , But hold your tongue and you 'll be wise .
Jerry Muskrat will tell you that is as true as true can be .
Jerry knows .
He found it out for himself .
Now he is very careful what he says about other people or what they are doing .
But he was n't so careful when his cousin , Paddy the Beaver , was building his house .
No , Sir , Jerry was n't so careful then .
He though he knew more about building a house than Paddy did .
He was sure of it when he watched Paddy heap up a great pile of mud right in the middle where his room ought to be , and then build a wall of sticks around it .
He said as much to Peter Rabbit .
Now it is never safe to say anything to Peter Rabbit that you do n't care to have others know .
Peter has a great deal of respect for Jerry Muskrat 's opinion on house-building .
You see , he very much admires Jerry 's snug house in the Smiling Pool .
It really is a very fine house , and Jerry may be excused for being proud of it .
But that does n't excuse Jerry for thinking that he knows all there is to know about house-building .
Of course Peter told everyone he met that Paddy the Beaver was making a foolish mistake in building his house , and that Jerry Muskrat , who ought to know , said so .
So whenever they got the chance , the little people of the Green Forest and Green Meadows would steal up to the shore of Paddy 's new pond and chuckle as they looked out at the great pile of sticks and mud which Paddy had built for a house , but in which he had forgotten to make a room .
At least they supposed that he had forgotten this very important thing .
He must have , for there was n't any room .
It was a great joke .
They laughed a lot about it , and they lost a great deal of the respect for Paddy which they had had since he built his wonderful dam .
Jerry and Peter sat in the moonlight talking it over .
Paddy had stopped bringing sticks for his wall .
He had dived down out of sight , and he was gone a long time .
Suddenly Jerry noticed that the water had grown very , very muddy all around Paddy 's new house .
He wrinkled his brows trying to think what Paddy could be doing .
Presently Paddy came up for air .
Then he went down again , and the water grew muddier than ever .
This went on for a long time .
Every little while Paddy would come up for air and a few minutes of rest .
Then down he would go , and the water would grow muddier and muddier .
At last Jerry could stand it no longer .
He just had to see what was going on .
He slipped into the water and swam over to where the water was muddiest .
Just as he got there up came Paddy .
`` Hello , Cousin Jerry ! ''
said he .
`` I was just going to invite you over to see what you think of my house inside .
Just follow me . ''
Paddy dived , and Jerry dived after him .
He followed Paddy in at one of the three doorways under water and up a smooth hall right into the biggest , nicest bedroom Jerry had ever seen in all his life .
He just gasped in sheer surprise .
He could n't do anything else .
He could n't find his tongue to say a word .
Here he was in this splendid great room up above the water , and he had been so sure that there was n't any room at all !
He just did n't know what to make of it .
Paddy 's eyes twinkled .
`` Well , '' said he , `` what do you think of it ? ''
`` I -- I -- think it is splendid , just perfectly splendid !
But I do n't understand it at all , Cousin Paddy .
I -- I -- Where is that great pile of mud I helped you build in the middle ? ''
Jerry looked as foolish as he felt when he asked this .
`` Why , I 've dug it all away .
That 's what made the water so muddy , '' replied Paddy .
`` But what did you build it for in the first place ? ''
Jerry asked .
`` Because I had to have something solid to rest my sticks against while I was building my walls , of course , '' replied Paddy .
When I got the tops fastened together for a roof , they did n't need a support any longer , and then I dug it away to make this room .
I could n't have built such a big room any other way .
I see you do n't know very much about house-building , Cousin Jerry . ''
`` I -- I 'm afraid I do n't , '' confessed Jerry sadly .
CHAPTER XIII The Queer Storehouse .
Everybody knew that Paddy the Beaver was laying up a supply of food for the winter , and everybody thought it was queer food .
That is , everybody but Prickly Porky the Porcupine thought so .
Prickly Porky likes the same kind of food , but he never lays up a supply .
He just goes out and gets it when he wants it , winter or summer .
What kind of food was it ?
Why , bark , to be sure .
Yes , Sir , it was just bark -- the bark of certain kinds of trees .
Now Prickly Porky can climb the trees and eat the bark right there , but Paddy the Beaver can not climb , and if he would just eat the bark that he can reach from the ground , it would take such a lot of trees to keep him filled up that he would soon spoil the Green Forest .
You know , when the bark is taken off a tree all the way around , the tree dies .
That is because all the things that a tree draws out of the ground to make it grow and keep it alive are carried up from the roots in the sap , and the sap can not go up the tree trunks and into the branches when the bark is taken off , because it is up the inside of the bark that it travels .
So when the bark is taken from a tree all the way around the trunk , the tree just starves to death .
Now Paddy the Beaver loves the Green Forest as dearly as you and I do , and perhaps even a little more dearly .
You see , it is his home .
Besides , Paddy never is wasteful .
So he cuts down a tree so that he can get all the bark instead of killing a whole lot of trees for a very little bark , as he might do if he were lazy .
There is n't a lazy bone in him -- not one .
The bark he likes best is from the aspen .
When he can not get that , he will eat the bark from the poplar , the alder , the willow , and even the birch .
But he likes the aspen so much better that he will work very hard to get it .
Perhaps it tastes better because he does have to work so hard for it .
There were some aspen trees growing right on the edge of the pond Paddy had made in the Green Forest .
These he cut just as he had cut the trees for his dam .
As soon as a tree was down , he would cut it into short lengths , and with these swim out to where the water was deep , close to his new house .
He took them one by one and carried the first ones to the bottom , where he pushed them into the mud just enough to hold them .
Then , as fast as he brought more , he piled them on the first ones .
And so the pile grew and grew .
Jerry Muskrat , Peter Rabbit , Bobby Coon , and the other little people of the Green Forest watched him with the greatest interest and curiosity .
They could n't quite make out what he was doing .
It was almost as if he were building the foundation for another house .
`` What 's he doing , Jerry ? ''
demanded Peter , when he could keep still no longer .
`` I do n't exactly know , '' replied Jerry .
`` He said that he was going to lay in a supply of food for the winter , just as I told you , and I suppose that is what he is doing .
But I do n't quite understand what he is taking it all out into the pond for .
I believe I 'll go ask him . ''
`` Do , and then come tell us , '' begged Peter , who was growing so curious that he could n't sit still .
So Jerry swam out to where Paddy was so busy .
`` Is this your food supply , Cousin Paddy ? ''
he asked .
`` Yes , '' replied Paddy , crawling up on the side of his house to rest .
`` Yes , this is my food supply .
Is n't it splendid ? ''
`` I guess it is , '' replied Jerry , trying to be polite , `` though I like lily roots and clams better .
But what are you going to do with it ?
Where is your storehouse ? ''
`` This pond is my storehouse , '' replied Paddy .
`` I will make a great pile right here close to my house , and the water will keep it nice and fresh all winter .
When the pond is frozen over , all I will have to do is to slip out of one of my doorways down there on the bottom , swim over here and get a stick , and fill my stomach .
Is n't it handy ? ''
CHAPTER XIV A Footprint in the Mud .
Very early one morning Paddy the Beaver heard Sammy Jay making a terrible fuss over in the aspen trees on the edge of the pond Paddy had made in the Green Forest .
Paddy could n't see because he was inside his house , and it has no window , but he could hear .
He wrinkled up his brows thoughtfully .
`` Seems to me that Sammy is very much excited this morning , '' said he , a way he has because he is so much alone .
`` When he screams like that , Sammy is usually trying to do two things at once -- make trouble for somebody and keep somebody else out of trouble ; and when you come to think of it , that 's rather a funny way of doing .
It shows that he is n't all bad , and at the same time he is a long way from being all good .
Now , I should say from the sounds that Sammy has discovered Reddy Fox trying to steal up on someone over where my aspen trees are growing .
Reddy is afraid of me , but I suspect that he knows that Peter Rabbit has been hanging around here a lot lately , watching me work , and he thinks perhaps he can watch Peter .
I shall have to whisper in one of Peter 's long ears and tell him to watch out . ''
After a while he heard Sammy Jay 's voice growing fainter and fainter in the Green Forest .
Finally he could n't hear it at all .
`` Whoever was here has gone away , and Sammy has followed just to torment them , '' thought Paddy .
He was very busy making a bed .
He is very particular about his bed , is Paddy the Beaver .
He makes it of fine splinters of wood which he splits off with those wonderful great cutting teeth of his .
This makes the driest kind of a bed .
It requires a great deal of patience and work , but patience is one of the first things a little Beaver learns , and honest work well done is one of the greatest pleasures in the world , as Paddy long ago found out for himself .
So he kept at work on his bed for some time after all was still outside .
At last Paddy decided that he would go over to his aspen trees and look them over to decide which ones he would cut the next night .
He slid down one of his long halls , out the doorway at the bottom on the pond , and then swam up to the surface , where he floated for a few minutes with just his head out of water .
And all the time his eyes and nose and ears were busy looking , smelling , and listening for any sign of danger .
Everything was still .
Sure that he was quite safe , Paddy swam across to the place where the aspen trees grew , and waddled out on the shore .
Paddy looked this way and looked that way .
He looked up in the treetops , and he looked off up the hill , but most of all he looked at the ground .
Yes , Sir , Paddy just studied the ground .
You see , he had n't forgotten the fuss Sammy Jay had been making there , and he was trying to find out what it was all about .
At first he did n't see anything unusual , but by and by he happened to notice a little wet place , and right in the middle of it was something that made Paddy 's eyes open wide .
It was a footprint !
Someone had carelessly stepped in the mud .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Paddy , and the hair on his back lifted ever so little , and for a minute he had a prickly feeling all over .
The footprint was very much like that of Reddy Fox , only it was larger .
`` Ha ! ''
said Paddy again .
`` That certainly is the foot print of Old Man Coyote !
I see I have got to watch out more sharply than I had thought for .
All right , Mr. Coyote ; now that I know you are about , you 'll have to be smarter than I think you are to catch me .
You certainly will be back here tonight looking for me , so I think I 'll do my cutting right now in the daytime . ''
CHAPTER XV Sammy Jay Makes Paddy a Call .
Paddy the Beaver was hard at work .
He had just cut down a good - sized aspen tree and now he was gnawing it into short lengths to put in his food pile in the pond .
As he worked , Paddy was doing a lot of thinking about the footprint of Old Man Coyote in a little patch of mud , for he knew that meant that Old Man Coyote had discovered his pond , and would be hanging around , hoping to catch Paddy off his guard .
Paddy knew it just as well as if Old Man Coyote had told him so .
That was why he was at work cutting his food supply in the daytime .
Usually he works at night , and he knew that Old Man Coyote knew it .
`` He 'll try to catch me then , '' thought Paddy , `` so I 'll do my working on land now and fool him . ''
The tree he was cutting began to sway and crack .
Paddy cut out One more big chip , then hurried away to a safe place while the tree fell with a crash .
`` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
screamed a voice just back of Paddy .
`` Hello , Sammy Jay !
I see you do n't feel any better than usual this morning , '' said Paddy .
`` Do n't you want to sit up in this tree while I cut it down ? ''
Sammy grew black in the face with anger , for he knew that Paddy was laughing at him .
You remember how only a few days before he had been so intent on calling Paddy bad names that he actually had n't noticed that Paddy was cutting the very tree in which he was sitting , and so when it fell he had had a terrible fright .
`` You think you are very smart , Mr. Beaver , but you 'll think differently one of these fine days ! ''
screamed Sammy .
`` If you knew what I know , you would n't be so well satisfied with yourself . ''
`` What do you know ? ''
asked Paddy , pretending to be very much alarmed .
`` I 'm not going to tell you what I know , '' retorted Sammy Jay .
`` You 'll find out soon enough .
And when you do find out , you 'll never steal another tree from our Green Forest .
Somebody is going to catch you , and it is n't Farmer Brown 's boy either ! ''
Paddy pretended to be terribly frightened .
`` Oh , who is it ?
Please tell me , Mr. Jay , '' he begged .
Now to be called Mr. Jay made Sammy feel very important .
Nearly everybody else called him Sammy .
He swelled himself out trying to look as important as he felt , and his eyes snapped with pleasure .
He was actually making Paddy the Beaver afraid .
At least , he thought he was .
`` No , Sir , I wo n't tell you , '' he replied .
`` I would n't be you for a great deal , though !
Somebody who is smarter than you are is going to catch you , and when he gets through with you , there wo n't be anything left but a few bones .
No , Sir , nothing but a few bones ! ''
`` Oh , Mr. Jay , this is terrible news !
Whatever am I to do ? ''
cried Paddy , all the time keeping on at work cutting another tree .
`` There 's nothing you can do , '' replied Sammy , grinning wickedly at Paddy 's fright .
`` There 's nothing you can do unless you go right straight back to the North where you came from .
You think you are very smart , but -- '' Sammy did n't finish .
Crack !
Over fell the tree Paddy had been cutting and the top of it fell straight into the alder in which Sammy was sitting .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Help ! ''
shrieked Sammy , spreading his wings and flying away just in time .
Paddy sat down and laughed until his sides ached .
`` Come make me another call someday , Sammy ! ''
he said .
`` And when you do , please bring some real news .
I know all about Old Man Coyote .
You can tell him for me that when he is planning to catch people he should be careful not to leave footprints to give himself away . ''
Sammy did n't reply .
He just sneaked off through the Green Forest , looking quite as foolish as he felt .
CHAPTER XVI Old Man Coyote is Very Crafty .
Coyote has a crafty brain ; His wits are sharp his ends to gain .
There is nothing in the world more true than that .
Old Man Coyote has the craftiest brain of all the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows .
Sharp as are the wits of old Granny Fox , they are not quite so sharp as the wits of Old Man Coyote .
If you want to fool him , you will have to get up very early in the morning , and then it is more than likely that you will be the one fooled , not he .
There is very little going on around him that he does n't know about .
But once in a while something escapes him .
The coming of Paddy the Beaver to the Green Forest was one of these things .
He did n't know a thing about Paddy until Paddy had finished his dam and his house , and was cutting his supply of food for the winter .
You see , it was this way : When the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind first heard what was going on in the Green Forest and hurried around over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest to spread the news , as is their way , they took the greatest pains not to even hint it to Old Man Coyote because they were afraid that he would make trouble and perhaps drive Paddy away .
The place that Paddy had chosen to build his dam was so deep in the Green Forest that Old Man Coyote seldom went that way .
So it was that he knew nothing about Paddy , and Paddy knew nothing about him for some time .
But after awhile Old Man Coyote noticed that the little people of the Green Meadows were not about as much as usual .
They seemed to have a secret of some kind .
He mentioned the matter to his friend , Digger the Badger .
Digger had been so intent on his own affairs that he had n't noticed anything unusual , but when Old Man Coyote mentioned the matter he remembered that Blacky the Crow headed straight for the Green Forest every morning .
Several times he had seen Sammy Jay flying in the same direction as if in a great hurry to get somewhere .
Old Man Coyote grinned .
`` That 's all I need to know , friend Digger , '' said he .
`` When Blacky the Crow and Sammy Jay visit a place more than once , something interesting is going on there .
I think I 'll take a stroll up through the Green Forest and have a look around . ''
With that , off Old Man Coyote started .
But he was too sly and crafty to go straight to the Green Forest .
He pretended to hunt around over the Green Meadows just as he usually did , all the time working nearer and nearer to the Green Forest .
When he reached the edge of it , he slipped in among the trees , and when he felt that no one was likely to see him , he began to run this way and that way with his nose to the ground .
`` Ha ! ''
he exclaimed presently , `` Reddy Fox has been this way lately . ''
Pretty soon he found another trail .
`` So , '' said he , `` Peter Rabbit has been over here a good deal of late , and his trail goes in the same direction as that of Reddy Fox .
I guess all I have to do now is to follow Peter 's trail , and it will lead me to what I want to find out . ''
So Old Man Coyote followed Peter 's trail , and he presently came to the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
`` Ha ! ''
said he , as he looked out and saw Paddy 's new house .
`` So there is a newcomer to the Green Forest !
I have always heard that Beaver is very good eating .
My stomach begins to feel empty this very minute . ''
His mouth began to water , and a fierce , hungry look shone in his eyes .
It was just then that Sammy Jay saw him and began to scream at the top of his lungs so that Paddy the Beaver over in his house heard him .
Old Man Coyote knew that it was of no use to stay longer with Sammy Jay about , so he took a hasty look at the pond and found where Paddy came ashore to cut his food .
Then , shaking his fist at Sammy Jay , he started straight back for the Green Meadows .
`` I 'll just pay a visit here in the night , '' said he , `` and give Mr. Beaver a surprise while he is at work . ''
But with all his craft , Old Man Coyote did n't notice that he left a footprint in the mud .
CHAPTER XVII Old Man Coyote is Disappointed .
Old Man Coyote lay stretched out in his favorite napping place on the Green Meadows .
He was thinking of what he had found out up in the Green Forest that morning -- that Paddy the Beaver was living there .
Old Man Coyote 's thoughts seemed very pleasant to himself , though really they were very dreadful thoughts .
You see , he was thinking how easy it was going to be to catch Paddy the Beaver , and what a splendid meal he would make .
He licked his chops at the thought .
`` He does n't know I know he 's here , '' thought Old Man Coyote .
`` In fact , I do n't believe heaven knows that I am anywhere around .
Of course he wo n't be watching for me .
He cuts his trees at night , so all I will have to do is to hide right close by where he is at work , and he 'll walk right into my mouth .
Sammy Jay knows I was up there this morning , but Sammy sleeps at night , so he will not give the alarm .
My , my , how good that Beaver will taste ! ''
He licked his chops once more , then yawned and closed his eyes for a nap .
Old Man Coyote waited until jolly , round red Mr. Sun had gone to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows had crept out across the Green Meadows .
Then , keeping in the blackest of them , and looking very much like a shadow of himself , he slipped into the Green Forest .
It was dark in there , and he made straight for Paddy 's new pond , trotting along swiftly without making a sound .
When he was near the aspen trees which he knew Paddy was planning to cut , he crept forward very slowly and carefully .
Everything was still as still could be .
`` Good ! ''
thought Old Man Coyote .
`` I am here first , and now all I need do is to hide and wait for Paddy to come ashore . ''
So he stretched himself flat behind some brush close beside the little path Paddy had made up from the edge of the water and waited .
It was very still , so still that it seemed almost as if he could hear his heart beat .
He could see the little stars twinkling in the sky and their own reflections twinkling back at them from the water of Paddy 's pond .
Old Man Coyote waited and waited .
He is very patient when there is something to gain by it .
For such a splendid dinner as Paddy the Beaver would make , he felt that he could well afford to be patient .
So he waited and waited , and everything was as still as if no living thing but the trees where there .
Even the trees seemed to be asleep .
At last , after a long , long time , he heard just the faintest splash .
He pricked up his ears and peeped out on the pond with the hungriest look in his yellow eyes .
There was a little line of silver coming straight toward him .
He knew that it was made by Paddy the Beaver swimming .
Nearer and nearer it drew .
Old Man Coyote chuckled way down deep inside , without making a sound .
He could see Paddy 's head now , and Paddy was coming straight in , as if he had n't a fear in the world .
Almost to the edge of the pond swam Paddy .
Then he stopped .
In a few minutes he began to swim again , but this time it was back in the direction of his house , and he seemed to be carrying something .
It was one of the little food logs he had cut that day , and he was taking it out to his storehouse .
Then back he came for another .
And so he kept on , never once coming ashore .
Old Man Coyote waited until Paddy had carried the last log to his storehouse and then , with a loud whack on the water with his broad tail , had dived and disappeared in his house .
Then Old Man Coyote arose and started elsewhere to look for his dinner , and in his heart was bitter disappointment .
CHAPTER XVIII Old Man Coyote Tries Another Plan .
For three nights Old Man Coyote had stolen up through the green Forest with the coming of the Black Shadows and had hidden among the aspen trees where Paddy the Beaver cut his food , and for three nights Paddy had failed to come ashore .
Each night he had seemed to have enough food logs in the water to keep him busy without cutting more .
Old Man Coyote lay there , and the hungry look in his eyes changed to one of doubt and then to suspicion .
Could it be that Paddy the Beaver was smarter than he thought ?
It began to look very much as if Paddy knew perfectly well that he was hiding there each night .
Yes , Sir , that 's the way it looked .
For three nights Paddy had n't cut a single tree , and yet each night he had plenty of food logs ready to take to his storehouse in the pond .
`` That means that he comes ashore in the daytime and cuts his trees , '' thought Old Man Coyote as , tired and with black anger in his heart , he trotted home the third night .
`` He could n't have found out about me himself ; he is n't smart enough .
It must be that someone has told him .
And nobody knows that I have been over there but Sammy Jay .
It must be he who has been the tattletale .
I think I 'll visit Paddy by daylight tomorrow , and then we 'll see ! ''
Now the trouble with some smart people is that they are never able to believe that others may be as smart as they .
Old Man Coyote did n't know that the first time he had visited Paddy 's pond he had left behind him a footprint in a little patch of soft mud .
If he had known it , he would n't have believed that Paddy would be smart enough to guess what that footprint meant .
So Old Man coyote laid all the blame at the door of Sammy Jay , and that very morning , when Sammy came flying over the Green Meadows , Old Man Coyote accused him of being a tattletale and threatened the most dreadful things to Sammy if ever he caught him .
Now Sammy had flown down to the green Meadows to tell Old Man Coyote how Paddy was doing all his work on land in the daytime .
But when Old Man Coyote began to call him a tattletale and accuse him of having warned Paddy , and to threaten dreadful things , he straightway forgot all his anger at Paddy and turned it all on Old Man Coyote .
He called him everything he could think of , and this was a great deal , for Sammy has a wicked tongue .
When he had n't any breath left , he flew over to the Green Forest , and there he hid where he could watch all that was going on .
That afternoon Old Man Coyote tried his new plan .
He slipped into the Green Forest , looking this way and that way to be sure that no one saw him .
Then very , very softly , he crept up through the Green Forest toward the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
As he drew near , he heard a crash , and it make him smile .
He knew what it meant .
It meant that Paddy was at work cutting down trees .
With his stomach almost on the ground , he crept forward little by little , little by little , taking the greatest care not to rustle so much as a leaf .
Presently he reached a place where he could see the aspen trees , and there , sure enough , was Paddy , sitting up on his hind legs and hard at work cutting another tree .
Old Man Coyote lay down for a few minutes to watch .
Then he wriggled a little nearer .
Slowly and carefully he drew his legs under him and made ready for a rush .
Paddy the Beaver was his at last !
At just that very minute a harsh scream rang out right over his head : `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
It was Sammy Jay , who had followed him all the way .
Paddy the Beaver did n't stop to even look around .
He knew what that meant , and he scrambled down his little path to the water as he never had scrambled before .
And as he dived with a great splash , Old Man Coyote landed with a great jump on the very edge of the pond .
CHAPTER XIX Paddy and Sammy Jay Become Friends .
Paddy the Beaver floated in his pond and grinned in the most provoking way at Old Man Coyote , who had so nearly caught him .
Old Man Coyote fairly danced with anger on the bank .
He had felt so sure of Paddy that time that it was hard work to believe that Paddy had really gotten away from him .
He bared his long , cruel teeth , and he looked very fierce and ugly .
`` Come on in ; the water 's fine ! ''
called Paddy .
Now , of course this was n't a nice thing for Paddy to do , for it only made Old Man Coyote all the angrier .
You see , Paddy knew perfectly well that he was absolutely safe , and he just could n't resist the temptation to say some unkind things .
He had had to be on the watch for days lest he should be caught , and so he had n't been able to work quite so well as he could have done with nothing to fear , and he still had a lot of preparations to make for winter .
So he told Old Man Coyote just what he thought of him , and that he was n't as smart as he thought he was or he never would have left a foot print in the mud to give him away .
When Sammy Jay , who was listening and chuckling as he listened , heard that , he flew down where he would be just out of reach of Old Man Coyote , and then he just turned that tongue of his loose , and you know that some people say that Sammy 's tongue is hung in the middle and wags at both ends .
Of course this is n't really so , but when he gets to abusing people it seems as if it must be true .
He called Old Man Coyote every bad name he could think of .
He called him a sneak , a thief , a coward , a bully , and a lot of other things .
`` You said I had warned Paddy that you were trying to catch him and that was why you failed to find him at work at night , and all the time you had warned him yourself ! ''
screamed Sammy .
`` I used to think that you were smart , but I know better now .
Paddy is twice as smart as you are .
`` Mr. Coyote is every so sly ; Mr. Coyote is clever and spry ; If you believe all you hear .
Mr. Coyote is naught of the kind ; Mr. Coyote is stupid and blind ; He ca n't catch a flea on his ear . ''
Paddy the Beaver laughed till the tears came at Sammy 's foolish verse , but it made Old Man Coyote angrier than ever .
He was angry with Paddy for escaping from him , and he was angry with Sammy , terribly angry , and the worst of it was he could n't catch either one , for one was at home in the water and the other was at home in the air and he could n't follow in either place .
Finally he saw it was of no use to stay there to be laughed at , so , muttering and grumbling , he started for the Green Meadows .
As soon as he was out of sight Paddy turned to Sammy Jay .
`` Mr. Jay , '' said he , knowing how it pleased Sammy to be called mister .
`` Mr. Jay , you have done me a mighty good turn today , and I am not going to forget it .
You can call me what you please and scream at me all you please , but you wo n't get any satisfaction out of it , because I simply wo n't get angry .
I will say to myself , ` Mr. Jay saved my life the other day , ' and then I wo n't mind your tongue . ''
Now this made Sammy feel very proud and very happy .
You know it is very seldom that he hears anything nice said of him .
He flew down on the stump of one of the trees Paddy had cut .
`` Let 's be friends , '' said he .
`` With all my heart ! ''
replied Paddy .
CHAPTER XX Sammy Jay Offers To Help Paddy .
Paddy sat looking thoughtfully at the aspen trees he would have to cut to complete his store of food for the winter .
All those near the edge of his pond had been cut .
The others were scattered about some little distance away .
`` I do n't know , '' said Paddy out loud .
`` I do n't know . ''
`` What do n't you know ? ''
asked Sammy Jay , who , now that he and Paddy had become friends , was very much interested in what Paddy was doing .
`` Why , '' replied Paddy , `` I do n't know just how I am going to get those trees .
Now that Old Man Coyote is watching for me , it is n't safe for me to go very far from my pond .
I suppose I could dig a canal up to some of the nearest trees and then float them down to the pond , but it is hard to work and keep watch for enemies at the same time .
I guess I 'll have to be content with some of these alders growing close to the water , but he bark of aspens is so much better that I -- I wish I could get them . ''
`` What 's a canal ? ''
asked Sammy abruptly .
`` A canal ?
Why a canal is a kind of ditch in which water can run , '' replied Paddy .
Sammy nodded .
`` I 've seen Farmer Brown dig one over on the Green Meadows , but it looked like a great deal of work .
I did n't suppose that anyone else could do it .
Do you really mean that you can dig a canal , Paddy ? ''
`` Of course I mean it , '' replied Paddy , in a surprised tone of voice .
`` I have helped dig lots of canals .
You ought to see some of them back where I came from . ''
`` I 'd like to , '' replied Sammy .
`` I think it is perfectly wonderful .
I do n't see how you do it . ''
`` It 's easy enough when you know how , '' replied Paddy .
`` If I dared to , I 'd show you . ''
Sammy had a sudden idea .
It almost made him gasp .
`` I tell you what , you work and I 'll keep watch ! ''
he cried .
`` You know my eyes are very sharp . ''
`` Will you ? ''
cried Paddy eagerly .
`` That would be perfectly splendid .
You have the sharpest eyes of anyone whom I know , and I would feel perfectly safe with you on watch .
But I do n't want to put you to all to that trouble , Mr. Jay . ''
`` Of course I will , '' replied Sammy , `` and it wo n't be any trouble at all .
I 'll just love to do it . ''
You see , it made Sammy feel very proud to have Paddy say that he had such sharp eyes .
`` When will you begin ? ''
`` Right away , if you will just take a look around and see that it is perfectly safe for me to come out on land . ''
Sammy did n't wait to hear more .
He spread his beautiful blue wings and started off over the Green Forest straight for the Green Meadows .
Paddy watched him go with a puzzled and disappointed air .
`` That 's funny , '' thought he .
`` I thought he really meant it , and now off he goes without even saying good-by . ''
In a little while back came Sammy , all out of breath .
`` It 's all right , '' he panted .
`` You can go to work just as soon as you please . ''
Paddy looked more puzzled than ever .
`` How do you know ? ''
he asked .
`` I have n't seen you looking around . ''
`` I did better than that , '' replied Sammy .
`` If Old Man Coyote had been hiding somewhere in the Green Forest , it might have taken me some time to find him .
But he is n't .
You see , I flew straight over to his home in the Green Meadows to see if he is there , and he is .
He 's taking a sun bath and looking as cross as two sticks .
I do n't think he 'll be back here this morning , but I 'll keep a sharp watch while you work . ''
Paddy made Sammy a low bow .
`` You certainly are smart , Mr. Jay , '' said he .
`` I would n't have thought of going over to Old Man Coyote 's home to see if he was there .
I 'll feel perfectly safe with you on guard .
Now I 'll get to work . ''
CHAPTER XXI Paddy and Sammy Jay Work Together .
Jerry Muskrat had been home at the Smiling Pool for several days .
But he could n't stay there long .
Oh , my , no !
He just had to get back to see what his big cousin , Paddy the Beaver , was doing .
So as soon as he was sure that everything was all right at the Smiling Pool he hurried back up the Laughing Brook to Paddy 's pond , deep in the Green Forest .
As soon as he was in sight of it , he looked eagerly for Paddy .
At first he did n't see him .
Then he stopped and gazed over at the place where Paddy had been cutting aspen trees for food .
Something was going on there , something queer .
He could n't make it out .
Jus then Sammy Jay came flying over .
`` What 's Paddy doing ? ''
Jerry asked .
Sammy Jay dropped down to the top of an alder tree and fluffed out all his feathers in a very important way .
`` Oh , '' said he , `` Paddy and I are building something ! ''
`` You !
Paddy and you !
Ha , ha !
Paddy and you building something ! ''
Jerry laughed .
`` Yes , me ! ''
snapped Sammy angrily .
`` That 's what I said ; Paddy and I are building something . ''
Jerry had begun to swim across the pond by this time , and Sammy was flying across .
`` Why do n't you tell the truth , Sammy , and say that Paddy is building something and you are making him all the trouble you can ? ''
called Jerry .
Sammy 's eyes snapped angrily , and he darted down at Jerry 's little brown head .
`` It is n't true ! ''
he shrieked .
`` You ask Paddy if I 'm not helping ! ''
Jerry ducked under water to escape Sammy 's sharp bill .
When he came up again , Sammy was over in the little grove of aspen trees where Paddy was at work .
Then Jerry discovered something .
What was it ?
Why a little water-path led right up to the aspen trees , and there , at the end of the little water-path , was Paddy the Beaver hard at work .
He was digging and piling the earth on one side very neatly .
In fact , he was making the water-path longer .
Jerry swam right up the little water-path to where Paddy was working .
`` Good morning , Cousin Paddy , '' said he .
`` What are you doing ? ''
`` Oh , '' replied Paddy , `` Sammy Jay and I are building a canal . ''
Sammy Jay looked down at Jerry in triumph , and Jerry looked at Paddy as if he thought that he was joking .
`` Sammy Jay ?
What 's Sammy Jay got to do about it ? ''
demanded Jerry .
`` A whole lot , '' replied Paddy .
`` You see , he keeps watch while I work .
If he did n't , I could n't work , and there would n't be any canal .
Old Man Coyote has been trying to catch me , and I would n't dare work on shore if it was n't that I am sure that the sharpest eyes in the Green Forest are watching for danger . ''
Sammy Jay looked very much pleased indeed and very proud .
`` So you see , it takes both of us to make this canal ; I dig while Sammy watches .
So we are building it together , '' concluded Paddy with a twinkle in his eyes .
`` I see , '' said Jerry slowly .
Then he turned to Sammy Jay .
`` I beg your pardon , Sammy , '' said he .
`` I do indeed . ''
`` That 's all right , '' replied Sammy airily .
`` What do you think of our canal ? ''
`` I think it is wonderful , '' replied Jerry .
And indeed it was a very fine canal , straight , wide , and deep enough for Paddy to swim in and float his logs out to the pond .
Yes , indeed , it was a very fine canal .
CHAPTER XXII Paddy Finishes His Harvest .
`` Sharp his tongue and sharp his eyes -- Sammy guards against surprise .
If ` twere not for Sammy Jay I could do no work today . ''
When Sammy overheard Paddy the Beaver say that to Jerry Muskrat , it made him swell up all over with pure pride .
You see , Sammy is so used to hearing bad things about himself that to hear something nice like that pleased him immensely .
He straightway forgot all the mean things he had said to Paddy when he first saw him -- how he had called him a thief because he had cut the aspen trees he needed .
He forgot all this .
He forgot how Paddy had made him the laughingstock of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows by cutting down the very tree in which he had been sitting .
He forgot everything but that Paddy had trusted him to keep watch and now was saying nice things about him .
He made up his mind that he would deserve all the nice things that Paddy could say , and he thought that Paddy was the finest fellow in the world .
Jerry Muskrat looked doubtful .
He did n't trust Sammy , and he took care not to go far from the water when he heard that Old Man Coyote had been hanging around .
But Paddy worked away just as if he had n't a fear in the world .
`` The way to make people want to be trusted is to trust them '' said he to himself .
`` If I show Sammy Jay that I do n't really trust him , he will think it is of no use to try and will give it up .
But if I do trust him , and he knows that I do , he 'll be the best watchman in the Green Forest . ''
And this shows that Paddy the Beaver has a great deal of wisdom , for it was just as he thought .
Sammy was on hand bright and early every morning .
He made sure that Old Man Coyote was nowhere in the Green Forest , and then he settled himself comfortably in the top of a tall pine tree where he could see all that was going on while Paddy the Beaver worked .
Paddy had finished his canal , and a beautiful canal it was , leading straight from his pond up to the aspen trees .
As soon as he had finished it , he began to cut the trees .
As soon as one was down he would cut it into short lengths and roll them into the canal .
Then he would float them out to his pond and over to his storehouse .
He took the larger branches , on which there was sweet , tender bark , in the same way , for Paddy is never wasteful .
After a while he went over to his storehouse , which , you know , was nothing but a great pile of aspen logs and branches in his pond close by his house .
He studied it very carefully .
Then he swam back and climbed up on the bank of his canal .
`` Mr. Jay , '' said he , `` I think our work is about finished . ''
`` What ! ''
cried Sammy , `` Are n't you going to cut the rest of those aspen trees ? ''
`` No , '' replied Paddy .
`` Enough is always enough , and I 've got enough to last me all winter .
I want those trees for next year .
Now I am fixed for the winter .
I think I 'll take it easy for a while . ''
Sammy looked disappointed .
You see , he had just begun to learn that the greatest pleasure in the world comes from doing things for other people .
For the first time since he could remember , someone wanted him around land it gave him such a good feeling down deep inside !
Perhaps it was because he remembered that good feeling that the next spring he was so willing and anxious to help poor Mrs. Quack .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Poor_Mrs._Quack.txt.out
I PETER RABBIT BECOMES ACQUAINTED WITH MRS. QUACK Make a new acquaintance every time you can ; You 'll find it interesting and a very helpful plan .
It means more knowledge .
You can not meet any one without learning something from him if you keep your ears open and your eyes open .
Every one is at least a little different from every one else , and the more people you know , the more you may learn .
Peter Rabbit knows this , and that is one reason he always is so eager to find out about other people .
He had left Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon in the Green Forest and had headed for the Smiling Pool to see if Grandfather Frog was awake yet .
He had no idea of meeting a stranger there , and so you can imagine just how surprised he was when he got in sight of the Smiling Pool to see some one whom he never had seen before swimming about there .
He knew right away who it was .
He knew that it was Mrs. Quack the Duck , because he had often heard about her .
And then , too , it was very clear from her looks that she was a cousin of the ducks he had seen in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
The difference was that while they were big and white and stupid-looking , Mrs. Quack was smaller , brown , very trim , and looked anything but stupid .
Peter was so surprised to see her in the Smiling Pool that he almost forgot to be polite .
I am afraid he stared in a very impolite way as he hurried to the edge of the bank .
`` I suppose , '' said Peter , `` that you are Mrs. Quack , but I never expected to see you unless I should go over to the Big River , and that is a place I never have visited and hardly expect to because it is too far from the dear Old Briar-patch .
You are Mrs. Quack , are n't you ? ''
`` Yes , '' replied Mrs. Quack , `` and you must be Peter Rabbit .
I 've heard of you very often . ''
All the time Mrs. Quack was swimming back and forth and in little circles in the most uneasy way .
`` I hope you 've heard nothing but good of me , '' replied Peter .
Mrs. Quack stopped her uneasy swimming for a minute and almost smiled as she looked at Peter , `` The worst I have heard is that you are very curious about other people 's affairs , '' said she .
Peter looked a wee , wee bit foolish , and then he laughed right out .
`` I guess that is true enough , '' said he .
`` I like to learn all I can , and how can I learn without being curious ?
I 'm curious right now .
I 'm wondering what brings you to the Smiling Pool when you never have been here before .
It is the last place in the world I ever expected to find you . ''
`` That 's why I 'm here , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` I hope others feel the same way .
I came here because I just HAD to find some place where people would n't expect to find me and so would n't come looking for me .
Little Joe Otter saw me yesterday on the Big River and told me of this place , and so , because I just had to go somewhere , I came here . ''
Peter 's eyes opened very wide with surprise .
`` Why , '' he exclaimed , `` I should think you would be perfectly safe on the Big River !
I do n't see how any harm can possibly come to you out there . ''
The words were no sooner out of Peter 's mouth than a faint bang sounded from way off towards the Big River .
Mrs. Quack gave a great start and half lifted her wings as if to fly .
But she thought better of it , and then Peter saw that she was trembling all over .
`` Did you hear that ? ''
she asked in a faint voice .
Peter nodded .
`` That was a gun , a terrible gun , but it was a long way from here , '' said he .
`` It was over on the Big River , '' said Mrs. Quack .
`` That 's why it is n't safe for me over there .
That 's why I just had to find some other place .
Oh , dear , the very sound of a gun sets me to shaking and makes my heart feel as if it would stop beating .
Are you sure I am perfectly safe here ? ''
`` Perfectly , '' spoke up Jerry Muskrat , who had been listening from the top of the Big Rock , where he was lunching on a clam , `` unless you are not smart enough to keep out of the clutches of Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote or Hooty the Owl or Redtail the Hawk . ''
`` I 'm not afraid of THEM , '' declared Mrs. Quack .
`` It 's those two-legged creatures with terrible guns I 'm afraid of , '' and she began to swim about more uneasily than ever .
II MRS. QUACK IS DISTRUSTFUL Jerry Muskrat thinks there is no place in the world like the Smiling Pool .
So , for the matter of that , does Grandfather Frog and also Spotty the Turtle .
You see , they have spent their lives there and know little about the rest of the Great World .
When Mrs. Quack explained that all she feared was that a two-legged creature with a terrible gun might find her there , Jerry Muskrat hastened to tell her that she had nothing to worry about on that account .
`` No one hunts here now that Farmer Brown 's boy has put away his terrible gun , '' explained Jerry .
`` There was a time when he used to hunt here and set traps , which are worse than terrible guns , but that was long ago , before he knew any better . ''
`` Who is Farmer Brown 's boy ? ''
demanded Mrs. Quack , looking more anxious than ever .
`` Is he one of those two-legged creatures ? ''
`` Yes , '' said Peter Rabbit , who had been listening with all his ears , `` but he is the best friend we Quaddies have got .
He is such a good friend that he ought to be a Quaddy himself .
Why , this last winter he fed some of us when food was scarce , and he saved Mrs. Grouse when she was caught in a snare , which you know is a kind of trap .
He wo n't let any harm come to you here , Mrs. Quack . ''
`` I would n't trust him , not for one single little minute , '' declared Mrs. Quack .
`` I would n't trust one of those two-legged creatures , not ONE .
You say he fed some of you last winter , but that does n't mean anything good .
Do you know what I 've known these two-legged creatures to do ? ''
`` What ? ''
demanded Peter and Jerry together .
`` I 've known them to scatter food where we Ducks would be sure to find it and to take the greatest care that nothing should frighten us while we were eating .
And then , after we had got in the habit of feeding in that particular place and had grown to feel perfectly safe there , they have hidden close by until a lot of us were feeding together and then fired their terrible guns and killed a lot of my friends and dreadfully hurt a lot more .
I would n't trust one of them , not ONE ! ''
`` Oh , how dreadful ! ''
cried Peter , looking quite as shocked as he felt .
Then he added eagerly , `` But our Farmer Brown 's boy would n't do anything like that .
You have n't the least thing to fear from him . ''
`` Perhaps not , '' said Mrs. Quack , shaking her head doubtfully , `` but I would n't trust him .
I would n't trust him as far off as I could see him .
The Smiling Pool is a very nice place , although it is dreadfully small , but if Farmer Brown 's boy is likely to come over here , I guess I better look for some other place , though goodness knows where I will find one where I will feel perfectly safe . ''
`` You are safe right here , if you have sense enough to stay here , '' declared Jerry Muskrat rather testily .
`` Do n't you suppose Peter and I know what we are talking about ? ''
`` I wish I could believe so , '' returned Mrs. Quack sadly , `` but if you had been through what I 've been through , and suffered what I 've suffered , you would n't believe any place safe , and you certainly would n't trust one of those two-legged creatures .
Why , for weeks they have n't given me a chance to get a square meal , and -- and -- I do n't know what has become of Mr. Quack , and I 'm all alone ! ''
There was a little sob in her voice and tears in her eyes .
`` Tell us all about it , '' begged Peter .
`` Perhaps we can help you . ''
III MRS. QUACK TELLS ABOUT HER HOME `` It 's a long story , '' said Mrs. Quack , shaking the tears from her eyes , `` and I hardly know where to begin . ''
`` Begin at the beginning , '' said Jerry Muskrat .
`` Your home is somewhere way up in the Northland where Honker the Goose lives , is n't it ? ''
Mrs. Quack nodded .
`` I wish I were there this very minute , '' she replied , the tears coming again .
`` But sometimes I doubt if ever I 'll get there again .
You folks who do n't have to leave your homes every year do n't know how well off you are or how much you have to be thankful for . ''
`` I never could understand what people want to leave their homes for , anyway , '' declared Peter .
`` We do n't leave because we want to , but because we HAVE to , '' replied Mrs. Quack , `` and we go back just as soon as we can .
What would you do if you could n't find a single thing to eat ? ''
`` I guess I 'd starve , '' replied Peter simply .
`` I guess you would , and that is just what we would do , if we did n't take the long journey south when Jack Frost freezes everything tight up there where my home is , '' returned Mrs. Quack .
`` He comes earlier up there and stays twice as long as he does here , and makes ten times as much ice and snow .
We get most of our food in the water or in the mud under the water , as of course you know , and when the water is frozen , there is n't a scrap of anything we can get to eat .
We just HAVE to come south .
It is n't because we want to , but because we must !
There is nothing else for us to do . ''
`` Then I do n't see what you want to make your home in such a place for , '' said practical Peter .
`` I should think you would make it where you can live all the year around . ''
`` I was born up there , and I love it just as you love the dear Old Briar-patch , '' replied Mrs. Quack simply .
`` It is home , and there is no place like home .
Besides , it is a very beautiful and a very wonderful place in summer .
There is everything that Ducks and Geese love .
We have all we want of the food we love best .
Everywhere is shallow water with tall grass growing in it . ''
`` Huh ! ''
interrupted Peter , `` I would n't think much of a place like that . ''
`` That 's because you do n't know what is good , '' snapped Jerry Muskrat .
`` It would suit me , '' he added , with shining eyes .
`` There are the dearest little islands just made for safe nesting-places , '' continued Mrs. Quack , without heeding the interruptions .
`` And the days are long , and it is easy to hide , and there is nothing to fear , for two-legged creatures with terrible guns never come there . ''
`` If there is nothing to fear , why do you care about places to hide ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` Well , of course , we have enemies , just as you do here , but they are natural enemies , -- Foxes and Minks and Hawks and Owls , '' explained Mrs. Quack .
`` Of course , we have to watch out for them and have places where we can hide from them , but it is our wits against their wits , and it is our own fault if we get caught .
That is perfectly fair , so we do n't mind that .
It is only men who are not fair .
They do n't know what fairness is . ''
Peter nodded that he understood , and Mrs. Quack went on .
`` Last summer Mr. Quack and I had our nest on the dearest little island , and no one found it .
First we had twelve eggs , and then twelve of the dearest babies you ever saw . ''
`` Maybe , '' said Peter doubtfully , thinking of his own babies .
`` They grew so fast that by the time the cold weather came , they were as big as their father and mother , '' continued Mrs. Quack .
`` And they were smart , too .
They had learned how to take care of themselves just as well as I could .
I certainly was proud of that family .
But now I do n't know where one of them is . ''
Mrs. Quack suddenly choked up with grief , and Peter Rabbit politely turned his head away .
IV MRS. QUACK CONTINUES HER STORY When Mrs. Quack told of her twelve children and how she did n't know where one of them was , Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat knew just how badly she was feeling , and they turned their heads away and pretended that they did n't see her tears .
In a few minutes she bravely went on with her story .
`` When Jack Frost came and we knew it was time to begin the long journey , Mr. Quack and myself and our twelve children joined with some other Duck families , and with Mr. Quack in the lead , we started for our winter home , which really is n't a home but just a place to stay .
For a while we had nothing much to fear .
We would fly by day and at night rest in some quiet lake or pond or on some river , with the Great Woods all about us or sometimes great marshes .
Perhaps you do n't know what marshes are .
If the Green Meadows here had little streams of water running every which way through them , and the ground was all soft and muddy and full of water , and the grass grew tall , they would be marshes . ''
Jerry Muskrat 's eyes sparkled .
`` I would like a place like that ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` You certainly would , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` We always find lots of your relatives in such places . ''
`` Marshes must be something like swamps , '' ventured Peter Rabbit , who had been thinking the matter over .
`` Very much the same , only with grass and rushes in place of trees and bushes , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` There is plenty to eat and the loveliest hiding-places .
In some of these we stayed days at a time .
In fact , we stayed until Jack Frost came to drive us out .
Then as we flew , we began to see the homes of these terrible two-legged creatures called men , and from that time on we never knew a minute of peace , excepting when we were flying high in the air or far out over the water .
If we could have just kept flying all the time or never had to go near the shore , we would have been all right .
But we had to eat . ''
`` Of course , '' said Peter .
`` Everybody has to eat . ''
`` And we had to rest , '' said Mrs. Quack .
`` Certainly , '' said Peter .
`` Everybody has to do that . ''
`` And to eat we had to go in close to shore where the water was not at all deep , because it is only in such places that we can get food , '' continued Mrs. Quack .
`` It takes a lot of strength to fly as we fly , and strength requires plenty of food .
Mr. Quack knew all the best feeding-places , for he had made the long journey several times , so every day he would lead the way to one of these .
He always chose the wildest and most lonely looking places he could find , as far as possible from the homes of men , but even then he was never careless .
He would lead us around back and forth over the place he had chosen , and we would all look with all our might for signs of danger .
If we saw none , we would drop down a little nearer and a little nearer .
But with all our watchfulness , we never could be sure , absolutely sure , that all was safe .
Sometimes those terrible two-legged creatures would be hiding in the very middle of the wildest , most lonely looking marshes .
They would be covered with grass so that we could n't see them .
Then , as we flew over them , would come the bang , bang , bang , bang of terrible guns , and always some of our flock would drop .
We would have to leave them behind , for we knew if we wanted to live we must get beyond the reach of those terrible guns .
So we would fly our hardest .
It was awful , just simply awful ! ''
Mrs. Quack paused and shuddered , and Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat shuddered in sympathy .
`` Sometimes we would have to try three or four feeding-places before we found one where there were no terrible guns .
And when we did find one , we would be so tired and frightened that we could n't enjoy our food , and we did n't dare to sleep without some one on watch all the time .
It was like that every day .
The farther we got , the worse it became .
Our flock grew smaller and smaller .
Those who escaped the terrible guns would be so frightened that they would forget to follow their leader and would fly in different directions and later perhaps join other flocks .
So it was that when at last we reached the place in the sunny Southland for which we had started , Mr. Quack and I were alone .
What became of our twelve children I do n't know .
I am afraid the terrible guns killed some .
I hope some joined other flocks and escaped , but I do n't know . ''
`` I hope they did too , '' said Peter .
V PETER LEARNS MORE OF MRS. QUACK 'S TROUBLES It often happens when we know The troubles that our friends pass through , Our own seem very small indeed ; You 'll always find that this is true .
`` My , you must have felt glad when you reached your winter home ! ''
exclaimed Peter Rabbit when Mrs. Quack finished the account of her long , terrible journey from her summer home in the far Northland to her winter home in the far Southland .
`` I did , '' replied Mrs. Quack , `` but all the time I could n't forget those to whom terrible things had happened on the way down , and then , too , I kept dreading the long journey back . ''
`` I do n't see why you did n't stay right there .
I would have , '' said Peter , nodding his head with an air of great wisdom .
`` Not if you were I , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` In the first place it is n't a proper place in which to bring up young Ducks and make them strong and healthy .
In the second place there are more dangers down there for young Ducks than up in the far Northland .
In the third place there is n't room for all the Ducks to nest properly .
And lastly there is a great longing for our real home , which Old Mother Nature has put in our hearts and which just MAKES us go .
We could n't be happy if we did n't . ''
`` Is the journey back as bad as the journey down ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Worse , very much worse , '' replied Mrs. Quack sadly .
`` You can see for yourself just how bad it is , for here I am all alone . ''
Tears filled Mrs. Quack 's eyes .
`` It is almost too terrible to talk about , '' she continued after a minute .
`` You see , for one thing , food is n't as plentiful as it is in the fall , and we just have to go wherever it is to be found .
Those two-legged creatures know where those feeding-grounds are just as well as we do , and they hide there with their terrible guns just as they did when we were coming south .
But it is much worse now , very much worse .
You see , when we were going the other way , if we found them at one place we could go on to another , but when we are going north we can not always do that .
We can not go any faster than Jack Frost does .
Sometimes we are driven out of a place by the bang , bang of the terrible guns and go on , only to find that we have caught up with Jack Frost , and that the ponds and the rivers are still covered with ice .
Then there is nothing to do but to turn back to where those terrible guns are waiting for us .
We just HAVE to do it . ''
Mrs. Quack stopped and shivered .
`` It seems to me I have heard nothing but the noise of those terrible guns ever since we started , '' said she .
`` I have n't had a good square meal for days and days , nor a good rest .
That is what makes me so dreadfully nervous .
Sometimes , when we had been driven from place to place until we had caught up with Jack Frost , there would be nothing but ice excepting in small places in a river where the water runs too swiftly to freeze .
We would just have to drop into one of these to rest a little , because we had flown so far that our wings ached as if they would drop off .
Then just as we would think we were safe for a little while , there would come the bang of a terrible gun .
Then we would have to fly again as long as we could , and finally come back to the same place because there was no other place where we could go .
Then we would have to do it all over again until night came .
Sometimes I think that those men with terrible guns must hate us and want to kill every one of us .
If they did n't , they would have a little bit of pity .
They simply have n't any hearts at all . ''
`` It does seem so , '' agreed Peter .
`` But wait until you know Farmer Brown 's boy !
HE 'S got a heart ! ''
he added brightly .
`` I do n't want to know him , '' retorted Mrs. Quack .
`` If he comes near here , you 'll see me leave in a hurry .
I would n't trust one of them , not one minute .
You do n't think he will come , do you ? ''
Peter sat up and looked across the Green Meadows , and his heart sank .
`` He 's coming now , but I 'm sure he wo n't hurt you , Mrs. Quack , '' said he .
But Mrs. Quack would n't wait to see .
With a hasty promise to come back when the way was clear , she jumped into the air and on swift wings disappeared towards the Big River .
VI FARMER BROWN 'S BOY VISITS THE SMILING POOL Farmer Brown 's boy had heard Welcome Robin singing in the Old Orchard quite as soon as Peter Rabbit had , and that song of `` Cheer up !
Cheer up !
Cheer up !
Cheer ! ''
had awakened quite as much gladness in his heart as it had in Peter 's heart .
It meant that Mistress Spring really had arrived , and that over in the Green Forest and down on the Green Meadows there would soon be shy blue , and just as shy white violets to look for , and other flowers almost if not quite as sweet and lovely .
It meant that his feathered friends would soon be busy house-hunting and building .
It meant that his little friends in fur would also be doing something very similar , if they had not already done so .
It meant that soon there would be a million lovely things to see and a million joyous sounds to hear .
So the sound of Welcome Robin 's voice made the heart of Farmer Brown 's boy even more happy than it was before , and as Welcome Robin just HAD to sing , so Farmer Brown 's boy just HAD to whistle .
When his work was finished , it seemed to Farmer Brown 's boy that something was calling him , calling him to get out on the Green Meadows or over in the Green Forest and share in the happiness of all the little people there .
So presently he decided that he would go down to the Smiling Pool to find out how Jerry Muskrat was , and if Grandfather Frog was awake yet , and if the sweet singers of the Smiling Pool had begun their wonderful spring chorus .
Down the Crooked Little Path cross the Green Meadows he tramped , and as he drew near the Smiling Pool , he stopped whistling lest the sound should frighten some of the little people there .
He was still some distance from the Smiling Pool when out of it sprang a big bird and on swift , whistling wings flew away in the direction of the Big River .
Farmer Brown 's boy stopped and watched until the bird had disappeared , and on his face was a look of great surprise .
`` As I live , that was a Duck ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` That is the first time I 've ever known a wild Duck to be in the Smiling Pool .
I wonder what under the sun could have brought her over here . ''
Just then there was a distant bang in the direction of the Big River .
Farmer Brown 's boy scowled , and it made his face very angry-looking .
`` That 's it , '' he muttered .
`` Hunters are shooting the Ducks on their way north and have driven the poor things to look for any little mudhole where they can get a little rest .
Probably that Duck has been shot at so many times on the Big River that she felt safer over here in the Smiling Pool , little as it is . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy had guessed exactly right , as you and I know , and as Peter Rabbit and Jerry Muskrat knew .
`` It 's a shame , a downright shame that any one should want to shoot birds on their way to their nesting-grounds and that the law should let them if they do want to .
Some people have n't any hearts ; they 're all stomachs .
I hope that fellow who shot just now over there on the Big River did n't hit anything , and I wish that gun of his might have kicked a little sense of what is right and fair into his head , but of course it did n't . ''
He grinned at the idea , and then he continued his way towards the Smiling Pool .
He hoped he might find another Duck there , and he approached the Smiling Pool very , very carefully .
But when he reached a point where he could see all over the Smiling Pool , there was no one to be seen save Jerry Muskrat sitting on the Big Rock and Peter Rabbit on the bank on the other side .
Farmer Brown 's boy smiled when he saw them .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat ! ''
said he .
`` I wonder how a bite of carrot would taste to you . ''
He felt in his pocket and brought out a couple of carrots .
One he put on a little tussock in the water where he knew Jerry would find it .
The other he tossed across the Smiling Pool where he felt sure Peter would find it .
Presently he noticed two or three feathers on the water close to the edge of the bank .
Mrs. Quack had left them there .
`` I believe that was a Mallard Duck , '' said he , as he studied them .
`` I know what I 'll do .
I 'll go straight back home and get some wheat and corn and put it here on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
Perhaps she will come back and find it . ''
And this is just what Farmer Brown 's boy did .
VII MRS. QUACK RETURNS Peter Rabbit just could n't go back to the dear Old Briar-patch .
He just HAD to know if Mrs. Quack would come back to the Smiling Pool .
He had seen Farmer Brown 's boy come there a second time and scatter wheat and corn among the brown stalks of last summer 's rushes , and he had guessed why Farmer Brown 's boy had done this .
He had guessed that they had been put there especially for Mrs. Quack , and if she should come back as she had promised to do , he wanted to be on hand when she found those good things to eat and hear what she would say .
So Peter stayed over near the Smiling Pool and hoped with all his might that Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote would not take it into his head to come hunting over there .
As luck would have it , neither of them did , and Peter had a very pleasant time gossiping with Jerry Muskrat , listening to the sweet voices of unseen singers in the Smiling Pool , -- the Hylas , which some people call peepers , -- and eating the carrot which Farmer Brown 's boy had left for him .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was just getting ready to go to bed behind the Purple Hills when Mrs. Quack returned .
The first Peter knew of her coming was the whistle of her wings as she passed over him .
Several times she circled around , high over the Smiling Pool , and Peter simply stared in open-mouthed admiration at the speed with which she flew .
It did n't seem possible that one so big could move through the air so fast .
Twice she set her wings and seemed to just slide down almost to the surface of the Smiling Pool , only to start her stout wings in motion once more and circle around again .
It was very clear that she was terribly nervous and suspicious .
The third time she landed in the water with a splash and sat perfectly still with her head stretched up , looking and listening with all her might .
`` It 's all right .
There 's nothing to be afraid of , '' said Jerry Muskrat .
`` Are you sure ? ''
asked Mrs. Quack anxiously .
`` I 've been fooled too often by men with their terrible guns to ever feel absolutely sure that one is n't hiding and waiting to shoot me . ''
As she spoke she swam about nervously .
`` Peter Rabbit and I have been here ever since you left , and I guess we ought to know , '' replied Jerry Muskrat rather shortly .
`` There has n't been anybody near here excepting Farmer Brown 's boy , and we told you he would n't hurt you . ''
`` He brought us each a carrot , '' Peter Rabbit broke in eagerly .
`` Just the same , I would n't trust him , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` Where is he now ? ''
`` He left ever so long ago , and he wo n't be back to-night , '' declared Peter confidently .
`` I hope not , '' said Mrs. Quack , with a sigh .
`` Did you hear the bang of that terrible gun just after I left here ? ''
`` Yes , '' replied Jerry Muskrat .
`` Was it fired at you ? ''
Mrs. Quack nodded and held up one wing .
Peter and Jerry could see that one of the long feathers was missing .
`` I thought I was flying high enough to be safe , '' said she , `` but when I reached the Big River there was a bang from the bushes on the bank , and something cut that feather out of my wing , and I felt a sharp pain in my side .
It made me feel quite ill for a while , and the place is very sore now , but I guess I 'm lucky that it was no worse .
It is very hard work to know just how far those terrible guns can throw things at you .
Next time I will fly higher . ''
`` Where have you been since you left us ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Eight in the middle of the Big River , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` It was the only safe place .
I did n't dare go near either shore , and I 'm nearly starved .
I have n't had a mouthful to eat to-day . ''
Peter opened his mouth to tell her of the wheat and corn left by Farmer Brown 's boy and then closed it again .
He would let her find it for herself .
If he told her about it , she might suspect a trick and refuse to go near the place .
He never had seen any one so suspicious , not even Old Man Coyote .
But he could n't blame her , after all she had been through .
So he kept still and waited .
He was learning , was Peter Rabbit .
He was learning a great deal about Mrs. Quack .
VIII MRS. QUACK HAS A GOOD MEAL AND A REST There 's nothing like a stomach full To make the heart feel light ; To chase away the clouds of care And make the world seem bright .
That 's a fact .
A full stomach makes the whole world seem different , brighter , better , and more worth living in .
It is the hardest kind of hard work to be cheerful and see only the bright side of things when your stomach is empty .
But once fill that empty stomach , and everything is changed .
It was just that way with Mrs. Quack .
For days at a time she had n't had a full stomach because of the hunters with their terrible guns , and when just before dark that night she returned to the Smiling Pool , her stomach was quite empty .
`` I do n't suppose I 'll find much to eat here , but a little in peace and safety is better than a feast with worry and danger , '' said she , swimming over to the brown , broken-down bulrushes on one side of the Smiling Pool and appearing to stand on her head as she plunged it under water and searched in the mud on the bottom for food .
Peter Rabbit looked over at Jerry Muskrat sitting on the Big Rock , and Jerry winked .
In a minute up bobbed the head of Mrs. Quack , and there was both a pleased and a worried look on her face .
She had found some of the corn left there by Farmer Brown 's boy .
At once she swam out to the middle of the Smiling Pool , looking suspiciously this way and that way .
`` There is corn over there , '' said she .
`` Do you know how it came there ? ''
`` I saw Farmer Brown 's boy throwing something over there , '' replied Peter .
`` Did n't we tell you that he would be good to you ? ''
`` Quack , quack , quack !
I 've seen that kind of kindness too often to be fooled by it , '' snapped Mrs. Quack .
`` He probably saw me leave in a hurry and put this corn here , hoping that I would come back and find it and make up my mind to stay here a while .
He thinks that if I do , he 'll have a chance to hide near enough to shoot me .
I did n't believe this could be a safe place for me , and now I know it .
I 'll stay here to-night , but to-morrow I 'll try to find some other place .
Oh , dear , it 's dreadful not to have any place at all to feel safe in . ''
There were tears in her eyes .
Peter thought of the dear Old Briar-patch and how safe he always felt there , and he felt a great pity for poor Mrs. Quack , who could n't feel safe anywhere .
And then right away he grew indignant that she should be so distrustful of Farmer Brown 's boy , though if he had stopped to think , he would have remembered that once he was just as distrustful .
`` I should think , '' said Peter with a great deal of dignity , `` that you might at least believe what Jerry Muskrat and I , who live here all the time , tell you .
We ought to know Farmer Brown 's boy if any one does , and we tell you that he wo n't harm a feather of you . ''
`` He wo n't get the chance ! ''
snapped Mrs. Quack .
Jerry Muskrat sniffed in disgust .
`` I do n't doubt you have suffered a lot from men with terrible guns , '' said he , `` but you do n't suppose Peter and I have lived as long as we have without learning a little , do you ?
I would n't trust many of those two-legged creatures myself , but Farmer Brown 's boy is different .
If all of them were like him , we would n't have a thing to fear from them .
He has a heart .
Yes , indeed , he has a heart .
Now you take my advice and eat whatever he has put there for you , be thankful , and stop worrying .
Peter and I will keep watch and warn you if there is any danger . ''
I do n't know as even this would have overcome Mrs. Quack 's fears if it had n't been for the taste of that good corn in her mouth , and her empty stomach .
She could n't , she just could n't resist these , and presently she was back among the rushes , hunting out the corn and wheat as fast as ever she could .
When at last she could eat no more , she felt so comfortable that somehow the Smiling Pool did n't seem such a dangerous place after all , and she quite forgot Farmer Brown 's boy .
She found a snug hiding-place among the rushes too far out from the bank for Reddy Fox to surprise her , and then with a sleepy `` Good night '' to Jerry and Peter , she tucked her head under her wing and soon was fast asleep .
Peter Rabbit tiptoed away , and then he hurried lipperty-lipperty-lip to the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Mrs. Peter all about Mrs. Quack .
IX PETER RABBIT MAKES AN EARLY CALL Peter Rabbit was so full of interest in Mrs. Quack and her troubles that he was back at the Smiling Pool before Mr. Sun had kicked off his rosy blankets and begun his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
You see , he felt that he had heard only a part of Mrs. Quack 's story , and he was dreadfully afraid that she would get away before he could hear the rest .
With the first bit of daylight , Mrs. Quack swam out from her hiding-place among the brown rushes .
It looked to Peter as if she sat up on the end of her tail as she stretched her neck and wings just as far as she could , and he wanted to laugh right out .
Then she quickly ducked her head under water two or three times so that the water rolled down over her back , and again Peter wanted to laugh .
But he did n't .
He kept perfectly still .
Mrs. Quack shook herself and then began to carefully dress her feathers .
That is , she carefully put back in place every feather that had been rumpled up .
She took a great deal of time for this , for Mrs. Quack is very neat and tidy and takes the greatest pride in looking as fine as she can .
Of course it was very impolite of Peter to watch her make her toilet , but he did n't think of that .
He did n't mean to be impolite .
And then it was so interesting .
`` Huh ! ''
said he to himself , `` I do n't see what any one wants to waste so much time on their clothes for . ''
You know Peter does n't waste any time on his clothes .
In fact , he does n't seem to care a bit how he looks .
He has n't learned yet that it always pays to be as neat and clean as possible and that you must think well of yourself if you want others to think well of you .
When at last Mrs. Quack had taken a final shower bath and appeared satisfied that she was looking her best , Peter opened his mouth to ask her the questions he was so full of , but closed it again as he remembered people are usually better natured when their stomachs are full , and Mrs. Quack had not yet breakfasted .
So he waited as patiently as he could , which was n't patiently at all .
At last Mrs. Quack finished her breakfast , and then she had to make her toilet all over again .
Finally Peter hopped to the edge of the bank where she would see him .
`` Good morning , Mrs. Quack , '' said he very politely .
`` I hope you had a good rest and are feeling very well this morning . ''
`` Thank you , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` I 'm feeling as well as could be expected .
In fact , I 'm feeling better than I have felt for some time in spite of the sore place made by that terrible gun yesterday .
You see , I have had a good rest and two square meals , and these are things I have n't had since goodness knows when .
This is a very nice place .
Let me see , what is it you call it ? ''
`` The Smiling Pool , '' said Peter .
`` That 's a good name for it , '' returned Mrs. Quack .
`` If only I could be sure that none of those hunters would find me here , and if only Mr. Quack were here , I would be content to stay a while . ''
At the mention of Mr. Quack , the eyes of Mrs. Quack suddenly filled with tears .
Peter felt tears of sympathy in his own eyes .
`` Where is Mr. Quack ? ''
he asked .
`` I do n't know , '' sobbed Mrs. Quack .
`` I wish I did .
I have n't seen him since one of those terrible guns was fired at us over on the Big River yesterday morning a little while before Little Joe Otter told me about the Smiling Pool .
Ever since we started for our home in the far North , I have been fearing that something of this kind might happen .
I ought to be on my way there now , but what is the use without Mr. Quack ?
Without him , I would be all alone up there and would n't have any home . ''
`` Wo n't you tell me all that has happened since you started on your long journey ? ''
asked Peter .
`` Perhaps some of us can help you . ''
`` I 'm afraid you ca n't , '' replied Mrs. Quack sadly , `` but I 'll tell you all about it so that you may know just how thankful you ought to feel that you do not have to suffer what some of us do . ''
X HOW MR. AND MRS. QUACK STARTED NORTH Peter Rabbit was eager to help Mrs. Quack in her trouble , though he had n't the least idea how he could help and neither had she .
How any one who dislikes water as Peter does could help one who lives on the water all the time was more than either one of them could see .
And yet without knowing it , Peter WAS helping Mrs. Quack .
He was giving her his sympathy , and sympathy often helps others a great deal more than we even guess .
It sometimes is a very good plan to tell your troubles to some one who will listen with sympathy .
It was so with Mrs. Quack .
She had kept her troubles locked in her own heart so long that it did her good to pour them all out to Peter .
`` Mr. Quack and I spent a very comfortable winter way down in the sunny Southland , '' said she with a far-away look .
`` It was very warm and nice down there , and there were a great many other Ducks spending the winter with us .
The place where we were was far from the homes of men , and it was only once in a long while that we had to watch out for terrible guns .
Of course , we had to have our wits with us all the time , because there are Hawks and Owls and Minks down there just as there are up here , but any Duck who ca n't keep out of their way deserves to furnish one of them a dinner .
`` Then there was another fellow we had to watch out for , a queer fellow whom we never see anywhere but down there .
It was never safe to swim too near an old log floating in the water or lying on the bank , because it might suddenly open a great mouth and swallow one of us whole . ''
`` What 's that ? ''
Peter Rabbit leaned forward and stared at Mrs. Quack with his eyes popping right out .
`` What 's that ? ''
he repeated .
`` How can an old log have a mouth ? ''
Mrs. Quack just had to smile , Peter was so in earnest and looked so astonished .
`` Of course , '' said she , `` no really truly log has a mouth or is alive , but this queer fellow I was speaking of looks so much like an old log floating in the water unless you look at him very sharply , that many a heedless young Duck has discovered the difference when it was too late .
Then , too , he will swim under water and come up underneath and seize you without any warning .
He has the biggest mouth I 've ever seen , with terrible-looking teeth , and could swallow me whole . ''
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` Some folks call him Alligator and some just ` Gator . '' -RSB-
By this time Peter 's eyes looked as if they would fall out of his head .
`` What is his name ? ''
whispered Peter .
`` It 's Old Ally the ` Gator , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` Some folks call him Alligator and some just ` Gator , but we call him Old Ally .
He 's a very interesting old fellow .
Some time perhaps I 'll tell you more about him .
Mr. Quack and I kept out of his reach , you may be sure .
We lived quietly and tried to get in as good condition as possible for the long journey back to our home in the North .
When it was time to start , a lot of us got together , just as we did when we came down from the North , only this time the young Ducks felt themselves quite grown up .
In fact , before we started there was a great deal of love-making , and each one chose a mate .
That was a very happy time , a very happy time indeed , but it was a sad time too for us older Ducks , because we knew what dreadful things were likely to happen on the long journey .
It is hard enough to lose father or mother or brother or sister , but it is worse to lose a dear mate . ''
Mrs. Quack 's eyes suddenly filled with tears again .
`` Oh , dear , '' she sobbed , `` I wish I knew what became of Mr. Quack . ''
Peter said nothing , but looked the sympathy he felt .
Presently Mrs. Quack went on with her story .
`` We had a splendid big flock when we started , made up wholly of pairs , each pair dreaming of the home they would build when they reached the far North .
Mr. Quack was the leader as usual , and I flew right behind him .
We had n't gone far before we began to hear the terrible guns , and the farther we went , the worse they got .
Mr. Quack led us to the safest feeding and resting grounds he knew of , and for a time our flock escaped the terrible guns .
But the farther we went , the more guns there were . ''
Mrs. Quack paused and Peter waited .
XI THE TERRIBLE , TERRIBLE GUNS `` Bang !
Bang !
Bang !
Not a feather spare !
Kill !
Kill !
Kill !
Wound and rip and tear ! ''
That is what the terrible guns roar from morning to night at Mrs. Quack and her friends as they fly on their long journey to their home in the far North .
I do n't wonder that she was terribly uneasy and nervous as she sat in the Smiling Pool talking to Peter Rabbit ; do you ?
`` Yes , '' said she , continuing her story of her long journey from the sunny Southland where she had spent the winter , `` the farther we got , the more there were of those terrible guns .
It grew so bad that as well as Mr. Quack knew the places where we could find food , and no Duck that ever flew knew them better , he could n't find one where we could feel perfectly sure that we were safe .
The very safest-looking places sometimes were the most dangerous .
If you saw a lot of Rabbits playing together on the Green Meadows , you would feel perfectly safe in joining them , would n't you ? ''
Peter nodded .
`` I certainly would , '' said he .
`` If it was safe for them it certainly would be safe for me . ''
`` Well , that is just the way we felt when we saw a lot of Ducks swimming about on the edge of one of those feeding-places .
We were tired , for we had flown a long distance , and we were hungry .
It was still and peaceful there and not a thing to be seen that looked the least bit like danger .
So we went straight in to join those Ducks , and then , just as we set our wings to drop down on the water among them , there was a terrible bang , bang , bang , bang !
My heart almost stopped beating .
Then how we did fly !
When we were far out over the water where we could see that nothing was near us we stopped to rest , and there we found only half as many in our flock as there had been . ''
`` Where were the others ? ''
asked Peter , although he guessed .
`` Killed or hurt by those terrible guns , '' replied Mrs. Quack sadly .
`` And that was n't the worst of it .
I told you that when we started each of us had a mate .
Now we found that of those who had escaped , four had lost their mates .
They were heartbroken .
When it came time for us to move on , they would n't go .
They said that if they did reach the nesting-place in the far North , they could n't have nests or eggs or young because they had no mates , so what was the use ?
Besides , they hoped that if they waited around they might find their mates .
They thought they might not have been killed , but just hurt , and might be able to get away from those hunters .
So they left us and swam back towards that terrible place , calling for their lost mates , and it was the saddest sound .
I know now just how they felt , for I have lost Mr. Quack , and that 's why I 'm here . ''
Mrs. Quack drew a wing across her eyes to wipe away the tears .
`` But what happened to those Ducks that were swimming about there and made you think it was safe ? ''
asked Peter , with a puzzled look on his face .
`` Nothing , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` They had been fastened out there in the water by the hunters so as to make us think it safe , and the terrible guns were fired at us and not at them .
The hunters were hidden under grass , and that is why we did n't see them . ''
Peter blinked his eyes rapidly as if he were having hard work to believe what he had been told .
`` Why , '' said be at last , `` I never heard of anything so dreadfully unfair in all my life !
Do you mean to tell me that those hunters actually made other Ducks lead you into danger ? ''
`` That 's just what I mean , '' returned Mrs. Quack .
`` Those two-legged creatures do n't know what fairness is .
Why , some of them have learned our language and actually call us in where they can shoot us .
Just think of that !
They tell us in our own language that there is plenty to eat and all is safe , so that we will think that other Ducks are hidden and feeding there , and then when we go to join them , we are shot at !
You ought to be mighty thankful , Peter Rabbit , that you are not a Duck . ''
`` I am , '' replied Peter .
He knew that not one of the meadow and forest people who were always trying to catch him would do a thing like that .
`` It 's all true , '' said Mrs. Quack , `` and those hunters do other things just as unfair .
Sometimes awful storms will come up , and we just have to find places where we can rest .
Those hunters will hide near those places and shoot at us when we are so tired that we can hardly move a wing .
It would n't be so bad if a hunter would be satisfied to kill just one Duck , just as Reddy Fox is , but he seems to want to kill EVERY Duck .
Foxes and Hawks and Owls catch a good many young Ducks , just as they do young Rabbits , but you know how we feel about that .
They only hunt when they are hungry , and they hunt fairly .
When , they have got enough to make a dinner , they stop .
They keep our wits sharp .
If we do not keep out of their way , it is our own fault .
It is a kind of game -- the game of life .
I guess it is Old Mother Nature 's way of keeping us wide-awake and sharpening our wits , and so making us better fitted to live .
`` With these two-legged creatures with terrible guns , it is all different .
We do n't have any chance at all .
If they hunted us as Reddy Fox does , tried to catch us themselves , it would be different .
But their terrible guns kill when we are a long way off , and there is n't any way for us to know of the danger .
And then , when one of them does kill a Duck , he is n't satisfied , but keeps on killing and killing and killing .
I 'm sure one would make him a dinner , if that is what he wants .
`` And they often simply break the wings or otherwise terribly hurt the ones they shoot at , and then leave them to suffer , unable to take care of themselves .
Oh , dear , I 'm afraid that is what has happened to Mr. Quack . ''
Once more poor Mrs. Quack was quite overcome with her troubles and sorrows .
Peter wished with all his heart that he could do something to comfort her , but of course he could n't , so he just sat still and waited until she could tell him just what did happen to Mr. Quack .
XII WHAT DID HAPPEN TO MR. QUACK `` When did you last see Mr. Quack ? ''
asked Jerry Muskrat , who had been listening while Mrs. Quack told Peter Rabbit about her terrible journey .
`` Early yesterday morning , '' replied Mrs. Quack , the tears once more filling her eyes .
`` We had reached the Big River over there , just six of us out of the big flock that had started from the sunny Southland .
How we got as far as that I do n't know .
But we did , and neither Mr. Quack nor I had lost a feather from those terrible guns that had banged at us all the way up and that had killed so many of our friends .
`` We were flying up the Big River , and everything seemed perfectly safe .
We were in a hurry , and when we came to a bend in the Big River , we flew quite close to shore , so as not to have to go way out and around .
That was where Mr. Quack made a mistake .
Even the smartest people will make mistakes sometimes , you know . ''
Peter Rabbit nodded , `` I know , '' said he .
`` I 've made them myself . ''
And then he wondered why Jerry Muskrat laughed right out .
`` Yes , '' continued Mrs. Quack , `` that is where Mr. Quack made a mistake , a great mistake .
I suppose that because not a single gun had been fired at us that morning he thought perhaps there were no hunters on the Big River .
So to save time he led us close to shore .
And then it happened .
There was a bang , bang of a terrible gun , and down fell Mr. Quack just as we had seen so many fall before .
It was awful .
There was Mr. Quack flying in front of me on swift , strong wings , and there never was a swifter , stronger flier or a handsomer Duck than Mr. Quack , and then all in the wink of an eye he was tumbling helplessly down , down to the water below , and I was flying on alone , for the other Ducks turned off , and I do n't know what became of them .
I could n't stop to see what became of Mr. Quack , because if I had , that terrible gun would have killed me .
So I kept on a little way and then turned and went back , only I kept out in the middle of the Big River .
I dropped down on the water and swam about , calling and calling , but I did n't get any answer , and so I do n't know what has become of Mr. Quack .
I am afraid he was killed , and if he was , I wish I had been killed myself . ''
Here Mrs. Quack choked up so that she could n't say another word .
Peter 's own eyes were full of tears as he tried to comfort her .
`` Perhaps , '' said he , `` Mr. Quack was n't killed and is hiding somewhere along the Big River .
I do n't know why I feel so , but I feel sure that he was n't killed , and that you will find him yet . ''
`` That 's why I 've waited instead of going on , '' replied Mrs. Quack between sobs , `` though it would n't have been of any use to go on without my dear mate .
I 'm going back to the Big River now to look for him .
The trouble is , I do n't dare go near the shore , and if he is alive , he probably is hiding somewhere among the rushes along the banks .
I think I 'll be going along now , but I 'll be back to-night if nothing happens to me .
You folks who can always stay at home have a great deal to be thankful for . ''
`` It 's lucky for me that Mrs. Peter was n't here to hear her say that , '' said Peter , as he and Jerry Muskrat watched Mrs. Quack fly swiftly towards the Big River .
`` Mrs. Peter is forever worrying and scolding because I do n't stay in the dear Old Briar-patch .
If she had heard Mrs. Quack say that , I never would have heard the last of it .
I wish there was something we could do for Mrs. Quack .
I 'm going back to the dear Old Briar-patch to think it over , and I guess the sooner I start the better , for that looks to me like Reddy Fox over there , and he 's headed this way . ''
So off for home started Peter , lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as he could go , and all the way there he was turning over in his mind what Mrs. Quack had told him and trying to think of some way to help her .
XIII PETER TELLS ABOUT MRS. QUACK To get things done , if you 'll but try , You 'll always find there is a way .
What you yourself ca n't do alone The chances are another may .
When Peter Rabbit was once more safely back in the dear Old Briar-patch , he told Mrs. Peter all about poor Mrs. Quack and her troubles .
Then for a long , long time he sat in a brown study .
A brown study , you know , is sitting perfectly still and thinking very hard .
That was what Peter did .
He sat so still that if you had happened along , you probably would have thought him asleep .
But he was n't asleep .
No , indeed !
He was just thinking and thinking .
He was trying to think of some way to help Mrs. Quack .
At last he gave a little sigh of disappointment .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` Just tuck that fact away in that empty head of yours and never say ca n't . '' -RSB-
`` It ca n't be done , '' said he .
`` There is n't any way . ''
`` What ca n't be done ? ''
demanded a voice right over his head .
Peter looked up .
There sat Sammy Jay .
Peter had been thinking so hard that he had n't seen Sammy arrive .
`` What ca n't be done ? ''
repeated Sammy .
`` There is n't anything that ca n't be done .
There are plenty of things that you ca n't do , but what you ca n't do some one else can .
Just tuck that fact away in that empty head of yours and never say ca n't . ''
You know Sammy dearly loves to tease Peter .
Peter made a good-natured face at Sammy .
`` Which means , I suppose , that what I ca n't do you can .
You always did have a pretty good opinion of yourself , Sammy , '' said he .
`` Nothing of the kind , '' retorted Sammy .
`` I simply mean that nobody can do everything , and that very often two heads are better than one .
It struck me that you had something on your mind , and I thought I might be able to help you get rid of it .
But of course , if you do n't want my help , supposing I could and would give it to you , that is an end of the matter , and I guess I 'll be on my way .
The Old Briar-patch is rather a dull place anyway . ''
Peter started to make a sharp retort , but thought better of it .
Instead he replied mildly : `` I was just trying to think of some way to help poor Mrs. Quack . ''
`` Help Mrs. Quack ! ''
exclaimed Sammy in surprise .
`` Where under the sun did you get acquainted with Mrs. Quack ?
What 's the matter with her ?
She always has looked to me quite able to help herself . ''
`` Well , she is n't .
That is , she needs others to help her just now , '' replied Peter , `` and I 've been most thinking my head off trying to find a way to help her . ''
Then he told Sammy how he had met Mrs. Quack at the Smiling Pool and how terrible her long journey up from the sunny Southland had been , and how Mr. Quack had been shot by a hunter with a terrible gun , and how poor Mrs. Quack was quite heartbroken , and how she had gone over to the Big River to look for him but did n't dare go near the places where he might be hiding if he were still alive and hurt so that he could n't fly , and how cruel and terribly unfair were the men with terrible guns , and all the other things he had learned from Mrs. Quack .
Sammy listened with his head cocked on one side , and for once he did n't interrupt Peter or try to tease him or make fun of him .
In fact , as Peter looked up at him , he could see that Sammy was very serious and thoughtful , and that the more he heard of Mrs. Quack 's story the more thoughtful he looked .
When Peter finished , Sammy flew down a little nearer to Peter .
`` I beg your pardon for saying your head is empty , Peter , '' said he .
`` Your heart is right , anyway .
Of course , there is n't anything you can do to help Mrs. Quack , but as I told you in the beginning , what you ca n't do others can .
Now I do n't say that I can help Mrs. Quack , but I can try .
I believe I 'll do a little thinking myself . ''
So Sammy Jay in his turn went into a brown study , and Peter watched him anxiously and a little hopefully .
XIV SAMMY JAY 'S PLAN TO HELP MRS. QUACK Sammy Jay sat on the lowest branch of a little tree in the dear Old Briar-patch just over Peter Rabbit 's head , thinking as hard as ever he could .
Peter watched him and wondered if Sammy would be able to think of any plan for helping poor Mrs. Quack .
He hoped so .
He himself had thought and thought until he felt as if his brains were all mixed up and he could n't think any more .
So he watched Sammy and waited and hoped .
Presently Sammy flirted his wings in a way which Peter knew meant that he had made up his mind .
`` Did I understand you to say that Mrs. Quack said that if Mr. Quack is alive , he probably is hiding among the rushes along the banks of the Big River ? ''
he asked .
Peter nodded .
`` And that she said that she does n't dare go near the banks because of fear of the terrible guns ? ''
Again Peter nodded .
`` Well , if that 's the case , what is the matter with some of us who are not afraid of the terrible guns looking for Mr. Quack ? ''
said Sammy .
`` I will , for one , and I 'm quite sure that my cousin , Blacky the Crow , will , for another .
He surely will if he thinks it will spoil the plans of any hunters .
Blacky would go a long distance to do that .
He hates terrible guns and the men who use them .
And he knows all about them .
He has very sharp eyes , has Blacky , and he knows when a man has got a gun and when he has n't .
More than that , he can tell better than any one I know of just how near he can safely go to one of those terrible guns .
He is smart , my cousin Blacky is , and if he will help me look for Mr. Quack , we 'll find him if he is alive . ''
`` That will be splendid ! ''
cried Peter , clapping his hands .
`` But are n't you afraid of those terrible guns , Sammy ? ''
`` Not when the hunters are trying for Ducks , '' replied Sammy .
`` If there is a Duck anywhere in sight , they wo n't shoot at poor little me or even at Blacky , though they would shoot at him any other time .
You see , they know that shooting at us would frighten the Ducks .
Blacky knows all about the Big River .
In the winter he often gets considerable of his food along its banks .
I 've been over there a number of times , but I do n't know so much about it as he does .
Now here is my plan .
I 'll go find Blacky and tell him all about what we want to do for Mrs. Quack .
Then , when Mrs. Quack comes back to the Smiling Pool , if she has n't found Mr. Quack , we 'll tell her what we are going to do and what she must do .
She must swim right up the Big River , keeping out in the middle where she will be safe .
If there are any hunters hiding along the bank , they will see her , and then they wo n't shoot at Blacky or me because they will keep hoping that Mrs. Quack will swim in near enough for them to shoot her .
Blacky will fly along over one bank of the Big River , and I will do the same over the other bank , keeping as nearly opposite Mrs. Quack as we can .
Being up in the air that way and looking down , we will be able to see the hunters and also Mr. Quack , if he is hiding among the rushes .
Are you quite sure that Mrs. Quack will come back to the Smiling Pool to-night ? ''
`` She said she would , '' replied Peter .
`` Last night she came just a little while before dark , and I think she will do the same thing to-night , to see if any more corn has been left for her .
You know Farmer Brown 's boy put some there yesterday , and it tasted so good to her that I do n't believe she will be able to stay away , even if she wants to .
I think your plan is perfectly splendid , Sammy Jay .
I do hope Blacky the Crow will help . ''
`` He will .
Do n't worry about that , '' replied Sammy .
`` Hello !
There goes Farmer Brown 's boy over to the Smiling Pool now . ''
`` Then there will be some more corn for Mrs. Quack .
I just know it ! ''
cried Peter .
`` He is going to see if Mrs. Quack is there , and I just know he has his pockets full of corn . ''
`` I would n't mind a little of it myself , '' said Sammy .
`` Well , I must go along to hunt up Blacky .
Good-by , Peter . ''
`` Good-by and good luck , '' replied Peter .
`` I 've always said you are not half such a bad fellow as you try to make folks think you are , Sammy Jay . ''
`` Thanks , '' said Sammy , and started for the Green Forest to look for his cousin , Blacky the Crow .
XV THE HUNT FOR MR. QUACK In spite of her hopelessness in regard to Mr. Quack , there is no doubt that Mrs. Quack felt better that night after she had eaten the corn left among the rushes of the Smiling Pool by Farmer Brown 's boy .
Now she had that very comfortable feeling that goes with a full stomach , she could think better .
As the Black Shadows crept across the Smiling Pool , she turned over in her mind Sammy Jay 's plan for helping her the next day .
The more she thought about it , the better it seemed , and she began to feel a little ashamed that she had not appeared more grateful to Sammy when he told her .
At the time she had been tired and hungry and discouraged .
Now she was beginning to feel rested , and she was no longer hungry .
These things made all the difference in the world .
As she thought over Sammy 's plan , she began to feel a little hope , and when at last she put her head under her wing to go to sleep , she had made up her mind that the plan was worth trying , and that she would do her part .
Bright and early the next morning , Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow were in the Big Hickory-tree near the Smiling Pool ready to start for the Big River to hunt for Mr. Quack .
Peter Rabbit had been so afraid that he would miss something that he had stayed near the Smiling Pool all night , so he was on hand to see the start .
It had been agreed that Mrs. Quack was to go to a certain place on the Big River and then swim up as far as she thought it would be of any use .
She was to stay in the middle of the river , where she would be quite safe from hunters with terrible guns , and where also these same hunters would be sure to see her and so not be tempted to shoot at Blacky the Crow if he happened to fly over them .
You see , they would hope that Mrs. Quack would swim in near enough to be shot and so would not risk frightening her by shooting at Blacky .
When Mrs. Quack had finished her breakfast , she started for the Big River , and her stout wings moved so swiftly that they made a whistling sound .
Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow followed her , but though they flew as fast as they could , Mrs. Quack had reached the Big River before they had gone half the way .
When they did get there , they saw Mrs. Quack out in the middle , swimming about and watching for them .
Blacky flew across the river and pretended to be hunting for food along the farther bank , just as every hunter knows he often does .
Sammy Jay did the same thing on the other bank .
Mrs. Quack swam slowly up the Big River , keeping in the middle , and Blacky and Sammy followed along up the two banks , all the time using their sharp eyes for all they were worth to find Mr. Quack hiding among the broken-down rushes or under the bushes in the water , for the Big River had overflowed its banks , and in some places bushes and trees were in the water .
Now Sammy Jay dearly loves to hunt for things .
Whenever he knows that one of his neighbors in the Green Forest has hidden something , he likes to hunt for it .
It is n't so much that he wants what has been hidden , as it is that he wants to feel he is smart enough to find it .
When he does find it , he usually steals it , I 'm sorry to say .
But it is the fun of hunting that Sammy enjoys most .
So now Sammy thoroughly enjoyed hunting for Mr. Quack .
He peered into every likely hiding-place and became so interested that he quite forgot about the hunters who might be waiting along the bank .
So it happened that he did n't see a boat drawn in among the bushes until he was right over it .
Sitting in it was a man with a terrible gun , very intently watching Mrs. Quack out in the middle of the Big River .
Sammy was so startled that before he thought he opened his mouth and screamed `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
at the top of his lungs , and flew away with all his might .
Mrs. Quack heard his scream and understood just what it meant .
A little later Blacky the Crow discovered another hunter hiding behind the bushes on his side .
`` Caw !
caw !
caw ! ''
shouted Blacky , flying out over the water far enough to be safe from that terrible gun he could see .
`` Quack !
quack ! ''
replied Mrs. Quack , which meant that she understood .
And so the hunt went on without a sign of poor Mr. Quack .
XVI SAMMY JAY SEES SOMETHING GREEN For all their peeking and peering among the broken-down rushes and under the bushes along the banks of the Big River , and no sharper eyes ever peeked and peered , Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow had found no sign of the missing Mr. Quack .
`` I guess Mrs. Quack was right and that Mr. Quack was killed when he was shot , '' muttered Sammy to himself .
`` Probably one of those hunters had him for dinner long ago .
Hello !
There 's another hunter up where the Laughing Brook joins the Big River !
I guess I wo n't take any chances .
I 'd like to find Mr. Quack , but Sammy Jay is a lot more important to me than Mr. Quack , and that fellow just might happen to take it into his head to shoot at me . ''
So Sammy silently flew around back of the hunter and stopped in a tree where he could watch all that the man did .
For some time Sammy sat there watching .
The hunter was sitting behind a sort of fence of bushes which quite hid him from any one who might happen to be out on the Big River .
But of course Sammy could see him perfectly , because he was behind him .
Out in front of that little fence , which was on the very edge of the water , were a number of what Sammy at first took to be some of Mrs. Quack 's relatives .
`` Why does n't he shoot them ? ''
thought Sammy .
He puzzled over this as he watched them until suddenly it came into his head that he had n't seen one of them move since he began watching them .
The man changed his position , and still those Ducks did n't move , although some of them were so near that they simply could n't have helped knowing when the hunter moved unless they were more stupid than any one of Sammy 's acquaintance .
This was very curious , very curious indeed .
Sammy flew a little nearer and then a little nearer , taking the greatest care not to make a sound .
Pretty soon he was so near that he could see those Ducks very plainly , and he stared with all his might .
He could n't see any feathers !
No , Sir , he could n't see any feathers !
Then he understood .
`` Huh ! ''
said he to himself .
`` Those are not Ducks at all .
They are just pieces of wood made to look like Ducks .
Now I wonder what they are for . ''
In a few minutes he found out .
He saw the hunter crouch down a little lower and look down the Big River .
Sammy looked too .
He saw a flock of real Ducks flying swiftly just above the middle of the Big River .
Suddenly the leader turned straight towards the place where the hunter was hiding , and the others followed him .
He could hear Mrs. Quack calling excitedly out in the middle of the Big River , but the strangers did not heed her .
They had their eyes on those wooden Ducks and were coming straight in to join them .
`` They think they are real Ducks and so this place is perfectly safe ! ''
thought Sammy .
He saw the hunter make ready to shoot with his terrible gun and then , without stopping to think what might happen to him , he opened his mouth and screamed at the top of his voice .
He saw the Ducks suddenly swing out towards the middle of the Big River and knew that they had heard his warning .
He saw the hunter suddenly rise and point his gun at the flying Ducks .
He heard the bang , bang of the terrible gun , but not one of the flock was hit .
The distance was too great .
Sammy chuckled happily .
Then he remembered that he himself was within easy reach of that terrible gun , and probably the hunter was very angry .
In great fright Sammy turned and flew , dodging behind trees and every second expecting to hear again the roar of that terrible gun .
But he did n't , and so when he thought he was safe , he stopped .
Now in flying away from the hunter he had followed the Laughing Brook where it winds through a sort of swamp before it joins the Big River .
Because there was more water than could be kept between the banks of the Big River , it had crept over the banks , and all the trees of the swamp were standing in water .
Just beyond where Sammy was sitting was a pile of brush in the water .
A Jolly Little Sunbeam , dancing down through the tree tops , touched something under the edge of the brush , and Sammy 's sharp eyes caught a flash of green .
Idly he watched it , and presently it moved .
Instantly Sammy was all curiosity .
He flew over where he could see better .
`` Now what can that be ? ''
thought Sammy , as he peered down at the pile of brush and tried to see under it .
XVII MR. QUACK IS FOUND AT LAST Sammy Jay 's eyes sparkled as he watched that spot of green under the pile of brush in the swamp through which the Laughing Brook finds its way to join the Big River .
All around was water , for you know it was spring , and the melting snows on the hills way up where the Big River has its beginning were pouring more water into the Big River than its banks would hold as it hurried down to the Great Ocean .
It just could n't hurry fast enough to take all that water down as fast as it ran into the Big River , and so the water had crept over the banks in places .
It had done this right here in the little swamp where Sammy was .
Sammy sat perfectly still , for he learned long ago that only by keeping perfectly still may one see all that is to be seen .
That green spot had moved .
He was sure of that .
And if it moved , it must be something alive .
If it were alive , it must be somebody , and Sammy wanted to know who it was .
Try as he would he could n't remember any one who wore such glossy green as that .
So he sat perfectly still , for he knew that if whoever was hiding under that brush should even guess that he was being watched , he would not come out .
So , his eyes sparkling with excitement , Sammy watched .
He was impatiently patient .
Did you know that it is possible to be impatiently patient ?
Well , it is .
Sammy was just boiling with impatience inside , but he did n't let that impatience spoil the patience of his waiting .
He sat there just as still as still , with his eyes fixed on that green spot , and you would never have guessed that he was fairly bursting with impatience to know who it was he was watching .
That is what is called self-control .
It means the power to make yourself do a certain thing , no matter how much you may want to do something else .
It is a splendid thing to have , is self-control .
After what seemed to Sammy a very long time , the green spot moved again .
Little by little something reached out from under the pile of brush .
It was a head , a very beautiful green head , and it was exactly like Mrs. Quack 's head , only hers was a sober brown instead of green .
Sammy choked back a little gasp of surprise as a sudden thought popped into his head .
Could this be the lost Mr. Quack ?
He had forgotten that probably Mr. Quack dressed differently from Mrs. Quack , and so of course he had been looking for some one all in brown .
There was the bang of a gun somewhere over on the Big River , and the green head was hastily withdrawn under the bush , but not before Sammy had seen a look of terrible fear in his eyes .
`` I believe it IS Mr. Quack ! ''
thought Sammy .
`` If it is , I 'll have the best news ever to tell Mrs. Quack .
Just trust Sammy Jay to find anything he goes looking for . ''
This was just plain boasting , and Sammy knew it .
But Sammy always does have a good opinion of himself .
It is one of his faults .
He quite lost sight of the fact that it was entirely by accident that he had come over to this swamp .
Now that he had guessed who this might be , he was less impatient .
He waited as still as you please , and at last the green head was slowly stretched out again , and Sammy could see that the neck was green , too , and that around the neck was a white collar .
Sammy could keep still no longer .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : `` Yes , '' said he in a low voice , `` I am Mr. Quack . '' -RSB-
`` Are you Mr. Quack ? ''
he asked eagerly .
The beautiful head disappeared like a flash .
Sammy waited a minute or two , before he repeated his question , adding : `` You need n't be afraid .
There is n't anybody here but me , and I 'm your friend .
I just want to know if you are Mr. Quack because I 've been looking for you for Mrs. Quack .
Are you ? ''
Slowly , looking this way and that way with fear and suspicion in his eyes , a handsome Duck came out from under the pile of brush .
`` Yes , '' said he in a low voice , `` I am Mr. Quack .
Where is Mrs. Quack ? ''
`` Safe and sound over on the Big River , '' replied Sammy joyfully .
`` Oh , I 'm so glad I 've found you ! ''
XVIII SAMMY JAY SENDS MRS. QUACK TO THE SWAMP When Sammy Jay left Mr. Quack in the swamp over by the bank of the Big River , he flew straight back to the Smiling Pool .
At first he thought of flying out over the Big River and screaming the news to Mrs. Quack , who , you know , was swimming about out there .
But he knew that if he did , she would very likely fly right over where Mr. Quack was , and that would n't do at all .
No , indeed , that would n't do at all .
One of the hunters would be sure to see her .
So Sammy wisely flew back to the Smiling Pool to wait until Mrs. Quack should come back there for the night .
Of course he told Peter Rabbit all about Mr. Quack , and Peter was so delighted at the thought that Mr. Quack was alive that he capered about in quite the craziest way .
`` Does Mrs. Quack know yet ? ''
asked Peter .
Sammy shook his head .
`` I 'm going to tell her when she comes back here to-night , '' he explained .
`` I was afraid if I told her before then she would fly straight to him and perhaps get them both in trouble . ''
`` Quite right , Sammy !
Quite right ! ''
Peter exclaimed .
`` I would n't have thought of that .
My , wo n't she be happy when you do tell her !
I wonder what she 'll say and what she 'll do .
I 'm going to stay right here so as to see her when she hears the good news .
Here comes your cousin , Blacky the Crow .
Does he know yet ? ''
`` No , '' replied Sammy , `` but I 'm going to tell him as soon as he gets here . ''
They watched Blacky draw nearer and nearer , and as soon as he was within hearing Sammy shouted the news .
`` Caw , caw , caw , '' replied Blacky , hurrying a little faster .
As soon as he reached the Big Hickory-tree , Sammy told the whole story over again , and Blacky was quite as glad as the others .
While they waited for Mrs. Quack he told how he had hunted and hunted along the farther bank of the Big River and how he had seen the hunters with their terrible guns hiding and had warned Mrs. Quack just where each one was .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was getting ready to go to bed behind the Purple Hills and the Black Shadows were beginning to creep out over the Green Meadows before Mrs. Quack came .
In fact , Sammy Jay and Blacky were getting very uneasy .
It was almost bed-time for them , for neither of them dared stay out after dark .
They had almost made up their minds to leave Peter to tell the news when they saw Mrs. Quack coming swiftly from the direction of the Big River .
She looked so sad and discouraged that even Blacky the Crow was sorry for her , and you know Blacky is n't much given to such feelings .
`` What 's the news , Mrs. Quack ? ''
asked Peter , his eyes dancing .
`` There is n't any , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` Oh , yes , there is ! ''
cried Sammy Jay , who could n't possibly keep still any longer .
`` What is it ? ''
demanded Mrs. Quack eagerly , and it seemed to Peter that there was a wee bit of hope in her voice .
`` Did you happen to notice that just before the Laughing Brook joins the Big River it flows through a little swamp ? ''
asked Sammy .
Mrs. Quack nodded her head rapidly .
`` What of it ? ''
she demanded .
`` Nothing much , only if I were you I would go down there after dark , '' replied Sammy .
Mrs. Quack looked up at Sammy sharply .
`` Why should I go down there ? ''
she asked .
`` If I tell you , will you wait until I get quite through ? ''
asked Sammy in his turn .
Mrs. Quack promised that she would .
`` Well , then , '' replied Sammy , `` this afternoon I found a stranger hiding in there , a stranger with a beautiful green head and neck and a white collar . ''
`` Mr. Quack !
Oh , it was Mr. Quack ! ''
cried Mrs. Quack joyfully and lifted her wings as if she would start for the swamp at once .
`` Stop ! ''
cried Sammy sharply .
`` You said you would wait until I am through .
It wo n't do for you to go there until after dark , because there is a hunter hiding very near Mr. Quack 's hiding-place .
Wait until it is dark and he has gone home .
Then take my advice , and when you have found Mr. Quack , bring him right up here to the Smiling Pool .
He ca n't fly , but he can swim up the Laughing Brook , and this is the safest place for both of you .
Now good night and good luck . ''
XIX JERRY MUSKRAT 'S GREAT IDEA A friendly friend is a friend indeed When he proves a friend in the time of need .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack had been so much taken up with each other and with their troubles that they had quite forgotten they were not alone in the Smiling Pool , which they had reached by swimming up the Laughing Brook .
So it happened that when Mrs. Quack suggested that if Mr. Quack 's wing got strong they might be able to find a lonesome pond not too far away where they could make their home for the summer , they were a little startled to hear a voice say : `` I know where there is one , and you will not have to fly at all to get to it . ''
Both jumped a little .
You see their nerves had been very much upset for a long time , and the least unexpected thing made them jump .
Then both laughed .
`` Hello , Jerry Muskrat !
We 'd forgotten all about you , '' said Mrs. Quack .
`` What was that you said ? ''
Jerry good-naturedly repeated what he had said .
Mrs. Quack 's face brightened .
`` Do you really mean it ? ''
she asked eagerly .
`` Do you really mean that you know of a pond where we could live and not be likely to be seen by these two-legged creatures called men ? ''
`` That 's what I said , '' replied Jerry briefly .
`` Oh , Jerry , you 're not joking , are you ?
Tell me you 're not joking , '' begged Mrs. Quack .
`` Of course I 'm not joking , '' returned Jerry just a little bit indignantly , `` I am not the kind of a fellow to joke people who are in such trouble as you and Mr. Quack seem to be in .
The idea came to me while you were talking .
I could n't help overhearing what you were saying , and the minute you mentioned a lonesome pond , the idea came to me , and I think it 's a perfectly splendid idea .
I know of just the lonesomest kind of a lonesome pond , and you wo n't have to fly a stroke to get to it .
If you are smart enough not to be caught by Reddy Fox or Hooty the Owl or Billy Mink or any of those people who hunt for a living , there is n't any reason I know of why you should n't spend the summer there in peace and comfort . ''
Mrs. Quack 's eyes fairly shone with hope and eagerness .
`` Oh , Jerry , tell us where it is , and we 'll start for it right away ! ''
she cried .
Jerry 's eyes twinkled .
`` Of course , the owner of that pond might not like to have neighbors .
I had n't thought of that , '' said he .
`` Perhaps he ought to be asked first . ''
Mrs. Quack 's face fell .
`` Who is the owner ? ''
she asked .
`` My cousin , Paddy the Beaver .
He made it , '' replied Jerry proudly .
Mrs. Quack 's face lighted up again at once .
`` I 'm sure he wo n't object , '' said she .
`` We know a great many of the Beaver family .
In fact , they are very good neighbors of ours in our home in the far Northland .
I did n't suppose there was a Beaver pond anywhere around here .
Tell me where it is , Jerry , and I 'll go right up there and call on your cousin . ''
`` All you 've got to do is to follow the Laughing Brook way back into the Green Forest , and you 'll come to Paddy 's pond , '' said he .
`` He made that pond himself two years ago .
He came down from the Great Woods and built a dam across the Laughing Brook way back there in the Green Forest and gave us a great scare here in the Smiling Pool by cutting off the water for a few days .
He has got a very nice pond there now .
Honker the Goose and his flock spent a night in it on their way south last fall . ''
Mrs. Quack waited to hear no more .
She shot up into the air and disappeared over the tops of the trees in the Green Forest .
`` What do you think of my idea ? ''
asked Jerry , as he and Mr. Quack watched her out of sight .
`` I think it is great , just simply great , '' replied Mr. Quack .
XX HAPPY DAYS FOR MR. AND MRS. QUACK Whose heart is true and brave and strong , Who ne'er gives up to grim despair , Will find some day that skies are blue And all the world is bright and fair .
If you do n't believe it , just ask Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
They know .
Certainly the world never looked darker for any one than it did for them when the terrible gun of a hunter broke Mr. Quack 's wing on the Big River and ended all their dreams of a home in the far Northland .
Then , through the help of Jerry Muskrat , they found the lonely pond of Paddy the Beaver deep in the Green Forest , and there , because their secret had been well kept , presently they found peace and hope and then happiness .
You see , the heart of Mrs. Quack was true and brave and strong .
She was the kind to make the best of things , and she at once decided that if they could n't have their home where they wanted it , they would have it where they could have it .
She was determined that they should have a home anyway , and Paddy the Beaver 's little pond was not such a bad place after all .
So she wasted no time .
She examined every inch of the shore of that little pond .
At last , a little back from the water , she found a place to suit her , a place so well hidden by bushes that only the sharpest eyes ever would find it .
And a little later it would be still harder to find , as she well knew , for all about clumps of tall ferns were springing up , and when they had fully unfolded , not even the keen eyes of Sammy Jay looking down from a near-by tree would be able to discover her secret .
There she made a nest on the ground , a nest of dried grass and leaves , and lined it with the softest and most beautiful of linings , down plucked from her own breast .
In it she laid ten eggs .
Then came long weeks of patient sitting on them , watching the wonder of growing things about her , the bursting into bloom of shy wood flowers , the unfolding of leaves on bush and tree , the springing up in a night of queer mushrooms , which people call toadstools , and all the time dreaming beautiful Duck dreams of the babies which would one day hatch from those precious eggs .
She never left them save to get a little food and just enough exercise to keep her well and strong , and when she did leave them , she always carefully pulled soft down over them to keep them warm while she was away .
Mr. Quack knew all about that nest , though he had taken no part in building it and had no share in the care of those eggs .
He was very willing that she should do all the work and thought it quite sufficient that he should be on guard to give warning if danger should appear .
So he spent the long beautiful days lazily swimming about in the little pond , gossiping with Paddy the Beaver , and taking the best of care of himself .
The broken wing healed and grew strong again , for it had not been so badly broken , after all .
If he missed the company of others of his kind which he would have had during these long days of waiting had they been able to reach their usual nesting-place in the far Northland , he never mentioned it .
Unknown to them , Farmer Brown 's boy discovered where they were .
Later he came often to the pond and was content to sit quietly on the shore and watch Mr. Quack , so that Mr. Quack grew quite used to him and did not fear him at all .
In fact , after the first few times , he made no attempt to hide .
You see he discovered that Farmer Brown 's boy was a friend .
Always after he had left , there was something good to eat near where he had been sitting , for Farmer Brown 's boy brought corn and oats and sometimes a handful of wheat .
He knew , and Mr. Quack knew that he knew , that somewhere near was a nest , but he did not try to find it much as he longed to , for he knew that would frighten and worry Mrs. Quack .
So the dear , precious secret of Mr. and Mrs. Quack was kept , for not even Paddy the Beaver knew just where that nest was , and in due time , early one morning , Mrs. Quack proudly led forth for their first swim ten downy , funny ducklings .
-LSB- Illustration with caption : Those were happy days indeed for Mr. and Mrs. Quack in the pond of Paddy the Beaver . -RSB-
Oh , those were happy days indeed for Mr. and Mrs. Quack in the pond of Paddy the Beaver , and in their joy they quite forgot for a time the terrible journey which had brought them there .
But finally the Ducklings grew up , and when Jack Frost came in the fall , the whole family started on the long journey to the sunny Southland .
I hope they got there safely , do n't you ?
Among those whom Mr. and Mrs. Quack came to know very well while they lived in the pond of Paddy the Beaver was that funny fellow who wears rings on his tail -- Bobby Coon .
In the next book I will tell you of some of Bobby 's adventures .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Prickly_Porky.txt.out
I HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL MAKES A FIND Happy Jack Squirrel had had a wonderful day .
He had found some big chestnut-trees that he had never seen before , and which promised to give him all the nuts he would want for all the next winter .
Now he was thinking of going home , for it was getting late in the afternoon .
He looked out across the open field where Mr. Goshawk had nearly caught him that morning .
His home was on the other side .
`` It 's a long way ` round , '' said Happy Jack to himself , `` but it is best to be safe and sure . ''
So Happy Jack started on his long journey around the open field .
Now , Happy Jack 's eyes are bright , and there is very little that Happy Jack does not see .
So , as he was jumping from one tree to another , he spied something down on the ground which excited his curiosity .
`` I must stop and see what that is , '' said Happy Jack .
So down the tree he ran , and in a few minutes he had found the queer thing , which had caught his eyes .
It was smooth and black and white , and at one end it was very sharp with a tiny little barb .
Happy Jack found it out by pricking himself with it .
`` Ooch , '' he cried , and dropped the queer thing .
Pretty soon he noticed there were a lot more on the ground .
`` I wonder what they are , '' said Happy Jack .
`` They do n't grow , for they have n't any roots .
They are not thorns , for there is no plant from which they could come .
They are not alive , so what can they be ? ''
Now , Happy Jack 's eyes are bright , but sometimes he does n't use them to the very best advantage .
He was so busy examining the queer things on the ground that he never once thought to look up in the tops of the trees .
If he had , perhaps he would not have been so much puzzled .
As it was he just gathered up three or four of the queer things and started on again .
On the way he met Peter Rabbit and showed Peter what he had .
Now , you know Peter Rabbit is very curious .
He just could n't sit still , but must scamper over to the place Happy Jack Squirrel told him about .
`` You 'd better be careful , Peter Rabbit ; they 're very sharp , '' shouted Happy Jack .
But as usual , Peter was in too much of a hurry to heed what was said to him .
Lipperty-lipperty-lip , lipperty-lipperty-lip , went Peter Rabbit through the woods , as fast as his long legs would take him .
Then suddenly he squealed and sat down to nurse one of his feet .
But he was up again in a flash with another squeal louder than before .
Peter Rabbit had found the queer things that Happy Jack Squirrel had told him about .
One was sticking in his foot , and one was in the white patch on the seat of his trousers .
II THE STRANGER FROM THE NORTH The Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind were excited .
Yes , Sir , they certainly were excited .
They had met Happy Jack Squirrel and Peter Rabbit , and they were full of the news of the queer things that Happy Jack and Peter Rabbit had found over in the Green Forest .
They hurried this way and that way over the Green Meadows and told every one they met .
Finally they reached the Smiling Pool and excitedly told Grandfather Frog all about it .
Grandfather Frog smoothed down his white and yellow waistcoat and looked very wise , for you know that Grandfather Frog is very old .
`` Pooh , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` I know what they are . ''
`` What ? ''
cried all the Merry Little Breezes together .
`` Happy Jack says he is sure they do not grow , for there are no strange plants over there . ''
Grandfather Frog opened his big mouth and snapped up a foolish green fly that one of the Merry Little Breezes blew over to him .
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` Things do not have to be on plants in order to grow .
Now I am sure that those things grew , and that they did not grow on a plant . ''
The Merry Little Breezes looked puzzled .
`` What is there that grows and does n't grow on a plant ? ''
asked one of them .
`` How about the claws on Peter Rabbit 's toes and the hair of Happy Jack 's tail ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
The Merry Little Breezes looked foolish .
`` Of course , '' they cried .
`` We did n't think of that .
But we are quite sure that these queer things that prick so are not claws , and certainly they are not hair . ''
`` Do n't you be too sure , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` You go over to the Green Forest and look up in the treetops instead of down on the ground ; then come back and tell me what you find . ''
Away raced the Merry Little Breezes to the Green Forest and began to search among the treetops .
Presently , way up in the top of a big poplar , they found a stranger .
He was bigger than any of the little meadow people , and he had long sharp teeth with which he was stripping the bark from the tree .
The hair of his coat was long , and out of it peeped a thousand little spears just like the queer things that Happy Jack and Peter Rabbit had told them about .
`` Good morning , '' said the Merry Little Breezes politely .
`` Mornin ' , '' grunted the stranger in the treetop .
`` May we ask where you come from ? ''
said one of the Merry Little Breezes politely .
`` I come from the North Woods , '' said the stranger and then went on about his business , which seemed to be to strip every bit of the bark from the tree and eat it .
III PRICKLY PORKY MAKES FRIENDS The Merry Little Breezes soon spread the news over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest that a stranger had come from the North .
At once all the little meadow people and forest folk made some excuse to go over to the big poplar tree where the stranger was so busy eating .
At first he was very shy and had nothing to say .
He was a queer fellow , and he was so big , and his teeth were so sharp and so long , that his visitors kept their distance .
Reddy Fox , who , you know , is a great boaster and likes to brag of how smart he is and how brave he is , came with the rest of the little meadow people .
`` Pooh , '' exclaimed Reddy Fox .
`` Who 's afraid of that fellow ? ''
Just then the stranger began to come down the tree .
Reddy backed away .
`` It looks as if you were afraid , Reddy Fox , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` I 'm not afraid of anything , '' said Reddy Fox , and swelled himself up to look twice as big as he really is .
`` It seems to me I hear Bowser the Hound , '' piped up Striped Chipmunk .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Pooh , '' exclaimed Reddy Fox .
`` Who 's afraid of that fellow ? ''
Page 10 .
-RSB- Now Striped Chipmunk had not heard Bowser the Hound at all when he spoke , but just then there was the patter of heavy feet among the dried leaves , and sure enough there was Bowser himself .
My , how everybody did run , -- everybody but the stranger from the North .
He kept on coming down the tree just the same .
Bowser saw him and stopped in surprise .
He had never seen anything quite like this big dark fellow .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
shouted Bowser in his deepest voice .
Now , when Bowser used that great deep voice of his , he was accustomed to seeing all the little meadow people and forest folk run , but this stranger did not even hurry .
Bowser was so surprised that he just stood still and stared .
Then he growled his deepest growl .
Still the stranger paid no attention to him .
Bowser did not know what to make of it .
`` I 'll teach that fellow a lesson , '' said Bowser to himself .
`` I 'll shake him , and shake him and shake him until he has n't any breath left . ''
By this time the stranger was down on the ground and starting for another tree , minding his own business .
Then something happened .
Bowser made a rush at him , and instead of running , what do you suppose the stranger did ?
He just rolled himself up in a tight ball with his head tucked down in his waistcoat .
When he was rolled up that way , all the little spears hidden in the hair of his coat stood right out until he looked like a great chestnut-burr .
Bowser stopped short .
Then he reached out his nose and sniffed at this queer thing .
Slap !
The tail of the stranger struck Bowser the Hound right across the side of his face , and a dozen of those little spears were left sticking there just like pins in a pin-cushion .
`` Wow !
wow !
wow !
wow ! ''
yelled Bowser at the top of his lungs , and started for home with his tail between his legs , and yelling with every jump .
Then the stranger unrolled himself and smiled , and all the little meadow people and forest folk who had been watching shouted aloud for joy .
And this is the way that Prickly Porky the Porcupine made friends .
IV PETER RABBIT HAS SOME STARTLING NEWS Little Mrs. Peter Rabbit , who used to be Little Miss Fuzzytail , sat at the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , anxiously looking over towards the Green Forest .
She was worried .
There was no doubt about it .
Little Mrs. Peter was very much worried .
Why did n't Peter come home ?
She did wish that he would be content to stay close by the dear Old Briar-patch .
For her part , she could n't see why under the sun he wanted to go way over to the Green Forest .
He was always having dreadful adventures and narrow escapes over there , and yet , in spite of all she could say , he would persist in going there .
She did n't feel easy in her mind one minute while he was out of her sight .
To be sure he always turned up all right , but she could n't help feeling that sometime his dreadful curiosity would get him into trouble that he could n't get out of , and so every time he went to the Green Forest , she was sure , absolutely sure , that she would never see him again .
Peter used to laugh at her and tell her that she was a foolish little dear , and that he was perfectly able to take care of himself .
Then , when he saw how worried she was , he would promise to be very , very careful and never do anything rash or foolish .
But he would n't promise not to go to the Green Forest .
No , Sir , Peter would n't promise that .
You see , he has so many friends over there , and there is always so much news to be gathered that he just could n't keep away .
Once or twice he had induced Mrs. Peter to go with him , but she had been frightened almost out of her skin every minute , for it seemed to her that there was danger lurking behind every tree and under every bush .
It was all very well for Chatterer the Red Squirrel and Happy Jack the Gray Squirrel , who could jump from tree to tree , but she did n't think it a safe and proper place for a sensible Rabbit , and she said so .
This particular morning she was unusually anxious .
Peter had been gone all night .
Usually he was home by the time Old Mother West Wind came down from the Purple Hills and emptied her children , the Merry Little Breezes , out of her big bag to play all day on the Green Meadows , but this morning Old Mother West Wind had been a long time gone about her business , and still there was no sign of Peter .
`` Something has happened .
I just know something has happened ! ''
she wailed .
`` Oh , Peter , Peter , Peter Rabbit Why will you be so heedless ?
Why will you take such dreadful risks , So foolish and so needless ? ''
`` Do n't worry .
Peter is smart enough to take care of himself , '' cried one of the Merry Little Breezes , who happened along just in time to overhear her .
`` He 'll be home pretty soon .
In fact , I think I see him coming now . ''
Mrs. Peter looked in the direction that the Merry Little Breeze was looking , and sure enough there was Peter .
He was heading straight for the dear Old Briar-patch , and he was running as if he were trying to show how fast he could run .
Mrs. Peter 's heart gave a frightened thump .
`` It must be that Reddy or Granny Fox or Old Man Coyote is right at his heels , '' thought she , but look as hard as she would , she could see nothing to make Peter run so .
In a few minutes he reached her side .
His eyes were very wide , and it was plain to see that he was bursting with important news .
`` What is it , Peter ?
Do tell me quick !
Have you had another narrow escape ? ''
gasped little Mrs. Peter .
Peter nodded while he panted for breath .
`` There 's another stranger in the Green Forest , a terrible looking fellow without legs or head or tail , and he almost caught me ! ''
panted Peter .
V PETER RABBIT TELLS HIS STORY When Peter Rabbit could get his breath after his long hard run from the Green Forest to the dear Old Briar-patch , he had a wonderful story to tell .
It was all about a stranger in the Green Forest , and to have heard Peter tell about it , you would have thought , as Mrs. Peter did , that it was a very terrible stranger , for it had no legs , and it had no head , and it had no tail .
At least , that is what Peter said .
`` You see , it was this way , '' declared Peter .
`` I had stopped longer than I meant to in the Green Forest , for you know , my dear , I always try to be home by the time jolly , round , red Mr. Sun gets out of bed and Old Mother West Wind gets down on the Green Meadows . ''
Mrs. Peter nodded .
`` But somehow time slipped away faster than I thought for , or else Mr. Sun got up earlier than usual , '' continued Peter .
Then he stopped .
That last idea was a new one , and it struck Peter as a good one .
`` I do believe that that is just what happened -- Mr. Sun must have made a mistake and crawled out of bed earlier than usual , '' he cried .
Mrs. Peter looked as if she very much doubted it , but she did n't say anything , and so Peter went on with his story .
`` I had just realized how light it was and had started for home , hurrying with all my might , when I heard a little noise at the top of the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine lives .
Of course I thought it was Prickly himself starting out for his breakfast , and I looked up with my mouth open to say hello .
But I did n't say hello .
No , Sir , I did n't say a word .
I was too scared .
There , just starting down the hill straight towards me , was the most dreadful creature that ever has been seen in the Green Forest !
It did n't have any legs , and it did n't have any head , and it did n't have any tail , and it was coming straight after me so fast that I had all I could do to get out of the way ! ''
Peter 's eyes grew very round and wide as he said this .
`` I took one good look , and then I jumped .
My gracious , how I did jump ! ''
he continued .
`` Then I started for home just as fast as ever I could make my legs go , and here I am , and mighty glad to be here ! ''
Mrs. Peter had listened with her mouth wide open .
When Peter finished , she closed it with a snap and hopped over and felt of his head .
`` Are you sick , Peter ? ''
she asked anxiously .
Peter stared at her .
`` Sick !
Me sick !
Not a bit of it ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Never felt better in my life , save that I am a little tired from my long run .
What a silly question !
Do I look sick ? ''
`` No-o , '' replied little Mrs. Peter slowly .
`` No-o , you do n't look sick , but you talk as if there were something the matter with your head .
I think you must be just a little light-headed , Peter , or else you have taken a nap somewhere and had a bad dream .
Did I understand you to say that this dreadful creature has no legs , and yet that it chased you ? ''
`` That 's what I said ! ''
snapped Peter a wee bit crossly , for he saw that Mrs. Peter did n't believe a word of his story .
`` Will you please tell me how any creature in the Green Forest or out of it , for that matter , can possibly chase any one unless it has legs or wings , and you did n't say anything about its having wings , '' demanded Mrs. Peter .
Peter scratched his head in great perplexity .
Suddenly he had a happy thought .
`` Mr. Blacksnake runs fast enough , but he does n't have legs , does he ? ''
he asked in triumph .
Little Mrs. Peter looked a bit discomfited .
`` No-o , '' she admitted slowly , `` he does n't have legs ; but I never could understand how he runs without them . ''
`` Well , then , '' snapped Peter , `` if he can run without legs , why ca n't other creatures ?
Besides , this one did n't run exactly ; it rolled .
Now I 've told you all I 'm going to .
I need a long nap , after all I 've been through , so do n't let any one disturb me . ''
`` I wo n't , '' replied Mrs. Peter meekly .
`` But , Peter , if I were you , I would n't tell that story to any one else . ''
VI PETER HAS TO TELL HIS STORY MANY TIMES Once you start a story you can not call it back ; It travels on and on and on and ever on , alack !
That is the reason why you should always be sure that a story you repeat is a good story .
Then you will be glad to have it travel on and on and on , and will never want to call it back .
But if you tell a story that is n't true or nice , the time is almost sure to come when you will want to call it back and can not .
You see stories are just like rivers , -- they run on and on forever .
Little Mrs. Peter Rabbit knew this , and that is why she advised Peter not to tell any one else the strange story he had told her of the dreadful creature without legs or head or tail that had chased him in the Green Forest .
Peter knew by that that she did n't believe a word of it , but he was too tired and sleepy to argue with her then , so he settled himself comfortably for a nice long nap .
When Peter awoke , the first thing he thought of was the terrible creature he had seen in the Green Forest .
The more he thought about it , the more impossible it seemed , and he did n't wonder that Mrs. Peter had advised him not to repeat it .
`` I wo n't , '' said Peter to himself .
`` I wo n't repeat it to a soul .
No one will believe it .
The truth is , I can hardly believe it myself .
I 'll just keep my tongue still . ''
But unfortunately for Peter , one of the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind had heard Peter tell the story to Mrs. Peter , and it was such a wonderful and curious and unbelievable story that the Merry Little Breeze straightway repeated it to everybody he met , and soon Peter Rabbit began to receive callers who wanted to hear the story all over again from Peter himself .
So Peter was obliged to repeat it ever so many times , and every time it sounded to him more foolish than before .
He had to tell it to Jimmy Skunk and to Johnny Chuck and to Danny Meadow Mouse and to Digger the Badger and to Sammy Jay and to Blacky the Crow and to Striped Chipmunk and to Happy Jack Squirrel and to Bobby Coon and to Unc ' Billy Possum and to Old Mr. Toad .
Now , strange to say , no one laughed at Peter , queer as the story sounded .
You see , they all remembered how they had laughed at him and made fun of him when he told about the great footprints he had found deep in the Green Forest , and how later it had been proven that he really did see them , for they were made by Buster Bear who had come down from the Great Woods to live in the Green Forest .
Then it had been Peter 's turn to laugh at them .
So now , impossible as this new story sounded , they did n't dare laugh at it .
`` I never heard of such a creature , '' said Jimmy Skunk , `` and I ca n't quite believe that there is such a one , but it is very clear to me that Peter has seen something strange .
You know the old saying that he laughs best who laughs last , and I 'm not going to give Peter another chance to have the last laugh and say , ' I told you so . ' ''
`` That is very true , '' replied Old Mr. Toad solemnly .
`` Probably Peter has seen something out of the ordinary , and in his excitement he has exaggerated it .
The thing to do is to make sure whether or not there is a stranger in the Green Forest .
Peter says that it came down the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine lives .
Some one ought to go ask him what he knows about it .
If there is such a terrible creature up there , he ought to have seen it .
Why do n't you go up there and ask him , Jimmy Skunk ?
You 're not afraid of anybody or anything . ''
`` I will , '' replied Jimmy promptly , and off he started .
You see , he felt very much flattered by Old Mr. Toad 's remark , and he could n't very well refuse , for that would look as if he were afraid , after all .
VII JIMMY SKUNK CALLS ON PRICKLY PORKY `` A plague upon Old Mr. Toad ! ''
grumbled Jimmy , as he ambled up the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest on his way to the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
`` Of course I 'm not afraid , but just the same I do n't like meddling with things I do n't know anything about .
I 'm not afraid of anybody I know of , because everybody has the greatest respect for me , but it might be different with a creature without legs or head or tail .
Whoever heard of such a thing ?
It gives me a queer feeling inside . ''
However , he kept right on , and as he reached the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky lives , he looked sharply in every direction and listened with all his might for strange sounds .
But there was nothing unusual to be seen .
The Green Forest looked just as it always did .
It was very still and quiet there save for the cheerful voice of Redeye the Vireo telling over and over how happy he was .
`` That does n't sound as if there were any terrible stranger around here , '' muttered Jimmy .
Then he heard a queer , grunting sound , a very queer sound , that seemed to come from somewhere on the top of the hill .
Jimmy grinned as he listened .
`` That 's Prickly Porky telling himself how good his dinner tastes , '' laughed Jimmy .
`` Funny how some people do like to hear their own voices . ''
The contented sound of Prickly Porky 's voice made Jimmy feel very sure that there could be nothing very terrible about just then , anyway , and so he slowly ambled up the hill , for you know he never hurries .
It was an easy matter to find the tree in which Prickly Porky was at work stripping off bark and eating it , because he made so much noise .
`` Hello ! ''
said Jimmy Skunk .
Prickly Porky took no notice .
He was so busy eating , and making so much noise about it , that he did n't hear Jimmy at all .
`` Hello ! ''
shouted Jimmy a little louder .
`` Hello , there !
Are you deaf ? ''
Of course this was n't polite at all , but Jimmy was feeling a little out of sorts because he had had to make this call .
This time Prickly Porky looked down .
`` Hello yourself , and see how you like it , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
he cried .
`` Come on up and have some of this nice bark with me . ''
Then Prickly Porky laughed at his own joke , for he knew perfectly well that Jimmy could n't climb , and that he would n't eat bark if he could .
Jimmy made a face at him .
`` Thank you , I 've just dined .
Come down here where I can talk to you without straining my voice , '' he replied .
`` Wait until I get another bite , '' replied Prickly Porky , stripping off a long piece of bark .
Then with this to chew on , he came half way down the tree and made himself comfortable on a big limb .
`` Now , what is it you 've got on your mind ? ''
he demanded .
At once Jimmy told him the queer story Peter Rabbit had told .
`` I 've been sent up here to find out if you have seen this legless , headless , tailess creature .
Have you ? ''
he concluded .
Prickly Porky slowly shook his head .
`` No , '' said he .
`` I 've been right here all the time , and I have n't seen any such creature . ''
`` That 's all I want to know , '' replied Jimmy .
`` Peter Rabbit 's got something the matter with his eyes , and I 'm going straight back to the Old Briar-patch to tell him so .
Much obliged . ''
With that Jimmy started back the way he had come , grumbling to himself .
VIII PRICKLY PORKY NEARLY CHOKES Hardly was Jimmy Skunk beyond sight and hearing after having made his call than Redeye the Vireo , whose home is in a tree just at the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky lives , heard a very strange noise .
He was very busy , was Redeye , telling all who would listen how happy he was and what a beautiful world this is .
Redeye seems to think that this is his special mission in life , that he was put in the Green Forest for this one special purpose , -- to sing all day long , even in the hottest weather when other birds forget to sing , his little song of gladness and happiness .
It never seems to enter his head that he is making other people happy just by being happy himself and saying so .
At first he hardly noticed the strange noise , but when he stopped singing for a bit of a rest , he heard it very plainly , and it sounded so very queer that he flew up the hill towards the place from which it seemed to come , and there his bright eyes soon discovered Prickly Porky .
Right away he saw that Prickly Porky was in some kind of trouble , and that it was he who was making the queer noise .
Prickly Porky was on the ground at the foot of a tree , and he was rolling over and kicking and clawing at his mouth , from which a little piece of bark was hanging .
It was such a strange performance that Redeye simply stared for a minute .
Then in a flash it came to him what it meant .
Prickly Porky was choking , and if something was n't done to help him , he might choke to death !
Now there was nothing that Redeye himself could do to help , for he was too small .
He must get help somewhere else , and he must do it quickly .
Anxiously he looked this way and that way , but there was no one in sight .
Then he remembered that Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree was not far away .
Perhaps Unc ' Billy could help .
He hoped that Unc ' Billy was at home , and he wasted no time in finding out .
Unc ' Billy was at home , and when he heard that his old friend Prickly Porky was in trouble , he hurried up the hill as fast as ever he could .
He saw right away what was the trouble .
`` Yo ' keep still just a minute , Brer Porky ! ''
he commanded , for he did not dare go very near while Prickly Porky was rolling and kicking around so , for fear that he would get against some of the thousand little spears Prickly Porky carries hidden in his coat .
Prickly Porky did as he was told .
Indeed , he was so weak from his long struggle that he was glad to .
Unc ' Billy caught hold of the piece of bark hanging from Prickly Porky 's mouth .
Then he braced himself and pulled with all his might .
For a minute the piece of bark held .
Then it gave way so suddenly that Unc ' Billy fell over flat on his back .
Unc ' Billy scrambled to his feet and looked reprovingly at Prickly Porky , who lay panting for breath , and with big tears rolling down his face .
-LSB- Illustration : Then he braced himself and pulled with all his might .
Page 30 .
-RSB- `` Ah cert ` nly am surprised , Brer Porky ; Ah cert ` nly am surprised that yo ' should be so greedy that yo ' choke yo ` self , '' said Unc ' Billy , shaking his head .
Prickly Porky grinned weakly and rather foolishly .
`` It was n't greed , Unc ' Billy .
It was n't greed at all , '' he replied .
`` Then what was it , may Ah ask ? ''
demanded Unc ' Billy severely .
`` I thought of something funny right in the middle of my meal , and I laughed just as I started to swallow , and the piece of bark went down the wrong way , '' explained Prickly Porky .
And then , as if the mere thought of the thing that had made him laugh before was too much for him , he began to laugh again .
He laughed and laughed and laughed , until finally Unc ' Billy quite lost patience .
`` Yo ' cert ` nly have lost your manners , Brer Porky ! ''
he snapped .
Prickly Porky wiped the tears from his eyes .
`` Come closer so that I can whisper , Unc ' Billy , '' said he .
A little bit suspiciously Unc ' Billy came near enough for Prickly Porky to whisper , and when he had finished , Unc ' Billy was wiping tears of laughter from his own eyes .
IX JIMMY SKUNK AND UNC ' BILLY POSSUM TELL DIFFERENT STORIES The little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest did n't know what to believe .
First came Peter Rabbit with the strangest kind of a story about being chased by a terrible creature without legs , head , or tail .
He said that it had come down the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine lives in the Green Forest .
Jimmy Skunk had been sent to call on Prickly Porky and ask him if he had seen any strange creature such as Peter Rabbit had told about .
Prickly Porky had said that he had n't seen any stranger in that part of the Green Forest , and Jimmy had straightway returned to the Green Meadows and told all his friends there that Peter Rabbit must have had something the matter with his eyes or else was crazy , for Prickly Porky had n't been away from home and yet had seen nothing unusual .
At the same time Unc ' Billy Possum was going about in the Green Forest telling everybody whom he met that he had called on Prickly Porky , and that Prickly Porky had told him that Peter Rabbit undoubtedly had seen something strange .
Of course Jimmy Skunk 's story soon spread through the Green Forest , and Unc ' Billy Possum 's story soon spread over the Green Meadows , and so nobody knew what to believe or think .
If Jimmy Skunk was right , why Peter Rabbit 's queer story was n't to be believed at all .
If Unc ' Billy was right , why Peter 's story was n't as crazy as it sounded .
Of course all this aroused a great deal of talk and curiosity , and those who had the most courage began to make visits to the hill where Prickly Porky lives to see if they could see for themselves anything out of the ordinary .
But they always found that part of the Green Forest just as usual and always , if they saw Prickly Porky at all , he seemed to be fast asleep , and no one liked to wake him to ask questions .
Little by little they began to think that Jimmy Skunk was right , and that Peter Rabbit 's terrible creature existed only in Peter 's imagination .
About this time Unc ' Billy told of having just such an experience as Peter had .
It happened exactly as it did with Peter , very early in the morning , when he was passing the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
`` Ah was just passing along , minding mah own business , when Ah heard a noise up on the hill behind me , '' said Unc ' Billy , `` and when Ah looked up , there was something coming straight down at me , and Ah could n't see any legs or head or tail . ''
`` What did you do , Unc ' Billy ? ''
asked Bobby Coon .
`` What did Ah do ?
Ah did just what yo'alls would have done , -- Ah done run ! ''
replied Unc ' Billy , looking around the little circle of forest and meadow people , listening with round eyes and open mouths .
`` Yes , Sah , Ah done run , and Ah did n't turn around until Ah was safe in mah holler tree . ''
`` Pooh ! ''
sneered Reddy Fox , who had been listening .
`` You 're a coward .
I would n't have run !
I would have waited and found out what it was .
You and Peter Rabbit would run away from your own shadows . ''
`` You do n't dare go there yourself at daybreak to-morrow ! ''
retorted Unc ' Billy .
`` I do too ! ''
declared Reddy angrily , though he did n't have the least intention of going .
`` All right .
Ah 'm going to be in a tree where Ah can watch to-morrow mo ` ning and see if yo ' are as brave as yo ' talk , '' declared Unc ' Billy .
Then Reddy knew that he would have to go or else be called a coward .
`` I 'll be there , '' he snarled angrily , as he slunk away .
X UNC ' BILLY POSSUM TELLS JIMMY SKUNK A SECRET Be sure before you drop a friend That you 've done nothing to offend .
A friend is always worth keeping .
Unc ' Billy Possum says so , and he knows .
He ought to , for he has made a lot of them in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , in spite of the pranks he has cut up and the tricks he has played .
And when Unc ' Billy makes a friend , he keeps him .
He says that it is easier and a lot better to keep a friend than to make a new one .
And this is the way he goes about it : Whenever he finds that a friend is angry with him , he refuses to be angry himself .
Instead , he goes to that friend , finds out what the trouble is , explains it all away , and then does something nice .
Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy had been friends from the time that Unc ' Billy came up from ol' Virginny to live in the Green Forest .
In fact , they had been partners in stealing eggs from the hen-house of Farmer Brown 's boy .
So when Jimmy Skunk , who had made a special call on Prickly Porky to find out if he had seen the strange creature without head , tail , or legs , told everybody that Prickly Porky had seen nothing of such a creature , he was very much put out and quite offended to hear that Unc ' Billy was telling how Prickly Porky had said that Peter might really have some reason for his queer story .
It seemed to him that either Prickly Porky had told an untruth or that Unc ' Billy was telling an untruth .
It made him very angry .
The afternoon of the day when Unc ' Billy had dared Reddy Fox to go at sun-up the next morning to the hill where Prickly Porky lives he met Jimmy Skunk coming down the Crooked Little Path .
Jimmy scowled and was going to pass without so much as speaking .
Unc ' Billy 's shrewd little eyes twinkled , and he grinned as only Unc ' Billy can grin .
`` Howdy , Brer Skunk , '' said he .
Jimmy just frowned harder than ever and tried to pass .
`` Howdy , Brer Skunk , '' repeated Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Yo ' must have something on your mind . ''
Jimmy Skunk stopped .
`` I have ! ''
he snapped .
`` I want to know whether it is you or Prickly Porky who has been telling an untruth .
He told me that he had n't seen anything like what Peter Rabbit said chased him , and you 've been telling around how he told you that Peter may have had good grounds for that foolish story .
If Peter saw that thing , Prickly Porky would know it , for he has n't been away from home this summer .
Why would he tell me that he has n't seen it if he has ? ''
`` Don ' be hasty , Brer Skunk .
Don ' be hasty , '' replied Unc ' Billy soothingly .
`` Ah have n't said that Brer Porky told me that he had seen the thing that Peter says chased him .
He told the truth when he told you that he had n't seen any stranger around his hill .
What he told me was that -- '' Here Unc ' Billy whispered .
Jimmy Skunk 's face cleared .
`` That 's different , '' said he .
`` Of course it is , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
`` Yo ' see Peter did see something strange , even if Brer Porky did n't .
Ah have seen it mahself , and now Ah invites yo ' to be over at the foot of Brer Porky 's hill at sun-up to-morrow mo ` ning and see what happens when Brer Fox tries to show how brave he is .
Only don ' forget that it 's a secret . ''
Jimmy was chuckling by this time .
`` I wo n't forget , and I 'll be there , '' he promised .
`` I 'm glad to know that nobody has been telling untruths , and I beg your pardon , Unc ' Billy , for thinking you might have been . ''
`` Don ' mention it , Brer Skunk , don ' mention it .
Ah 'll be looking fo ' yo ' to-morrow mo ` ning , '' replied Unc ' Billy , with a sly wink that made Jimmy laugh aloud .
XI WHAT HAPPENED TO REDDY FOX Reddy Fox wished with all his might that he had kept his tongue still about not being afraid to meet the strange creature that had given Peter Rabbit such a fright .
When he had boasted that he would stop and find out all about it if he happened to meet it , he did n't have the least intention of doing anything of the kind .
He was just idly boasting and nothing more .
You see , Reddy is one of the greatest boasters in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows .
He likes to strut around and talk big .
But like most boasters , he is a coward at heart .
Unc ' Billy Possum knew this , and that is why he dared Reddy to go the next morning to the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine lives , and where Peter Rabbit had had his strange adventure , and where Unc ' Billy himself claimed to have seen the same strange creature without head , tail , or legs which had so frightened Peter .
Unc ' Billy had said that he would be there himself up in a tree where he could see whether Reddy really did come or not , and so there was nothing for Reddy to do but to go and make good his foolish boast , if the strange creature should appear .
You see , a number of little people had heard him boast and had heard Unc ' Billy dare him , and he knew that if he did n't make good , he would never hear the end of it and would be called a coward by everybody .
Reddy did n't sleep at all well that afternoon , and when at dusk he started to hunt for his supper , he found that he had lost his appetite .
Instead of hunting , he spent most of the night in trying to think of some good reason for not appearing at Prickly Porky 's hill at daybreak .
But think as he would , he could n't think of a single excuse that would sound reasonable .
`` If only Bowser the Hound was n't chained up at night , I would get him to chase me , and then I would have the very best kind of an excuse , '' thought he .
But he knew that Bowser was chained .
Nevertheless he did go up to Farmer Brown 's dooryard to make sure .
It was just as he expected , -- Bowser was chained .
Reddy sneaked away without even a look at Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
He did n't see that the door had carelessly been left open , and even if he had , it would have made no difference .
He had n't a bit of appetite .
No , Sir .
Reddy Fox would n't have eaten the fattest chicken there if it had been right before him .
All he could think of was that queer story told by Peter Rabbit and Unc ' Billy Possum , and the scrape he had got himself into by his foolish boasting .
He just wandered about restlessly , waiting for daybreak and hoping that something would turn up to prevent him from going to Prickly Porky 's hill .
He did n't dare to tell old Granny Fox about it .
He knew just what she would say .
It seemed as if he could hear her sharp voice and the very words : `` Serves you right for boasting about something you do n't know anything about .
How many times have I told you that no good comes of boasting ?
A wise Fox never goes near strange things until he has found out all about them .
That is the only way to keep out of trouble and live to a ripe old age .
Wisdom is nothing but knowledge , and a wise Fox always knows what he is doing . ''
So Reddy wandered about all the long night .
It seemed as if it never would pass , and yet he wished it would last forever .
The more he thought about it , the more afraid he grew .
At last he saw the first beams from jolly , round , red Mr. Sun creeping through the Green Forest .
The time had come , and he must choose between making his boast good or being called a coward by everybody .
Very , very slowly , Reddy Fox began to walk towards the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
XII WHAT REDDY FOX SAW AND DID Who guards his tongue as he would keep A treasure rich and rare , Will keep himself from trouble free , And dodge both fear and care .
The trouble with a great many people is that they remember this too late .
Reddy Fox is one of these .
Reddy is smart and sly and clever in some ways , but he has n't learned yet to guard his tongue , and half the trouble he gets into is because of that unruly member .
You see it is a boastful tongue and an untruthful tongue and that is the worst combination for making trouble that I know of .
It has landed him in all kinds of scrapes in the past , and here he was in another , all on account of that tongue .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had kicked his rosy blankets off and was smiling down on the Great World as he began his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
The Jolly Little Sunbeams were already dancing through the Green Forest , chasing out the Black Shadows , and Reddy knew that it was high time for him to be over by the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine lives .
With lagging steps he sneaked along from tree to tree , peering out from behind each anxiously , afraid to go on , and still more afraid not to , for fear that he would be called a coward .
He had almost reached the foot of the hill without seeing anything out of the usual and without any signs of Unc ' Billy Possum .
He was just beginning to hope that Unc ' Billy was n't there , as he had said he would be , when a voice right over his head said : `` Ah cert ` nly am glad to see that yo ' are as good as your word , Brer Fox , fo ' we need some one brave like yo ' to find out what this strange creature is that has been chasing we-uns . ''
Reddy looked up with a sickly grin .
There sat Unc ' Billy Possum in a pine tree right over his head .
He knew now that there was no backing out ; he had got to go on .
He tried to swagger and look very bold and brave .
`` I told you I 'm not afraid .
If there 's anything queer around here , I 'll find out what it is , '' he once more boasted , but Unc ' Billy noticed that his voice sounded just a wee bit trembly .
`` Keep right on to the foot of the hill ; that 's where Ah saw it yesterday .
My , Ah 'm glad that we 've got some one so truly brave ! ''
replied Unc ' Billy .
Reddy looked at him sharply , but there was n't a trace of a smile on Unc ' Billy 's face , and Reddy could n't tell whether Unc ' Billy was making fun of him or not .
So , there being nothing else to do , he went on .
He reached the foot of the hill without seeing or hearing a thing out of the usual .
The Green Forest seemed just as it always had seemed .
Redeye the Vireo was pouring out his little song of gladness , quite as if everything was just as it should be .
Reddy 's courage began to come back .
Nothing had happened , and nothing was going to happen .
Of course not !
It was all some of Peter Rabbit 's foolishness .
Some day he would catch Peter Rabbit and put an end to such silly tales .
`` Ah !
What was that ? ''
Reddy 's sharp ears had caught a sound up near the top of the hill .
He stopped short and looked up .
For just a little wee minute Reddy could n't believe that his eyes saw right .
Coming down the hill straight towards him was the strangest thing he ever had seen .
He could n't see any legs .
He could n't see any head .
He could n't see any tail .
It was round like a ball , but it was the strangest looking ball that ever was .
It was covered with old leaves .
Reddy would n't have believed that it was alive but for the noises it was making .
For just a wee minute he stared , and then , what do you think he did ?
Why , he gave a frightened yelp , put his tail between his legs , and ran just as fast as he could make his legs go .
Yes , Sir , that 's just what Reddy Fox did .
-LSB- Illustration : Reddy would n't have believed that it was alive .
Page 69 .
-RSB- XIII REDDY FOX IS VERY MISERABLE When Reddy Fox put his tail between his legs and started away from that terrible creature coming down the hill where Prickly Porky lives , he thought of nothing but of getting as far away as he could in the shortest time that he could , and so , with a little frightened yelp with every jump , he ran as he seldom had run before .
He forgot all about Unc ' Billy Possum watching from the safety of a big pine-tree .
He did n't see Jimmy Skunk poking his head out from behind an old stump and laughing fit to kill himself .
When he reached the edge of the Green Forest , he did n't even see Peter Rabbit jump out of his path and dodge into a hollow log .
When Reddy was safely past , Peter came out .
He sat up very straight , with his ears pointing right up to the sky and his eyes wide open with surprise as he stared after Reddy .
`` Why !
Why , my gracious , I do believe Reddy has had a fright ! ''
exclaimed Peter .
Then , being Peter , he right away began to wonder what could have frightened Reddy so , and in a minute he thought of the strange creature which had frightened him a few days before .
`` I do believe that was it ! ''
he cried .
`` I do believe it was .
Reddy is coming from the direction of Prickly Porky 's , and that was where I got my fright .
I -- I -- '' Peter hesitated .
The truth is he was wondering if he dared go up there and see if that strange creature without head , tail , or legs really was around again .
He knew it would be a foolish thing to do , for he might walk right into danger .
He knew that little Mrs. Peter was waiting for him over in the dear Old Briar-patch and that she would worry , for he ought to be there this very blessed minute .
But he was very curious to know what had frightened Reddy so , and his curiosity , which has led him into so many scrapes , grew greater with every passing minute .
`` It wo n't do any harm to go part way up there , '' thought Peter .
`` Perhaps I will find out something without going way up there . ''
So , instead of starting for home as he should have done , he turned back through the Green Forest and , stopping every few hops to look and listen , made his way clear to the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
There he hid under a little hemlock-tree and looked in every direction for the strange creature which had frightened him so the last time he was there .
But nobody was to be seen but Prickly Porky , Jimmy Skunk , and Unc ' Billy Possum rolling around in the leaves at the top of the hill and laughing fit to kill themselves .
`` There 's no danger here ; that is sure , '' thought Peter shrewdly , `` and I believe those fellows have been up to some trick . ''
With that he boldly hopped up the hill and joined them .
`` What 's the joke ? ''
he demanded .
`` Did you meet Reddy Fox ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk , wiping the tears of laughter from his eyes .
`` Did I meet him ?
Why , he almost ran into me and did n't see me at all .
I guess he 's running yet .
Now , what 's the joke ? ''
Peter demanded .
When the others could stop laughing long enough , they gathered around Peter and told him something that sent Peter off into such a fit of laughter that it made his sides ache , `` That 's a good one on Reddy , and it was just as good a one on me , '' he declared .
`` Now who else can we scare ? ''
All of which shows that there was something very like mischief being planned on the hill where Prickly Porky the Porcupine lives .
XIV REDDY FOX TRIES TO KEEP OUT OF SIGHT Never in all his life was Reddy Fox more uncomfortable in his mind .
He knew that by this time everybody in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , around the Smiling Pool , and along the Laughing Brook , knew how he had put his tail between his legs and run with all his might at the first glimpse of the strange creature which had rolled down the hill of Prickly Porky .
And he was right ; everybody did know it , and everybody was laughing about it .
Unc ' Billy Possum , Jimmy Skunk , Prickly Porky , and Peter Rabbit had seen him run , and you may be sure they told everybody they met about it , and news like that travels very fast .
It would n't have been so bad if he had n't boasted beforehand that if he met the strange creature he would wait for it and find out what it was .
As it was , he had run just as Peter Rabbit had run when he saw it , and he had been just as much frightened as Peter had .
Now , as he sneaked along trying to find something to eat , for he was hungry , he did his very best to keep out of sight .
Usually he is very proud of his handsome red coat , but now he wished that he could get rid of it .
It is very hard to keep out of sight when you have bright colored clothes .
Presently Sammy Jay 's sharp eyes spied him as he tried to crawl up on the young family of Mrs. Grouse .
At once Sammy flew over there screaming at the top of his lungs : `` Reddy Fox is very brave when there 's no danger near ; But where there is , alas , alack !
he runs away in fear . ''
Reddy looked up at Sammy and snarled .
It was of no use at all now to try to surprise and catch any of the family of Mrs. Grouse , so he turned around and hurried away , trying to escape from Sammy 's sharp eyes .
He had gone only a little way when a sharp voice called : `` Coward !
Coward !
Coward ! ''
It was Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
No sooner had he got out out of Chatterer 's sight than he heard another voice .
It was saying over and over : `` Dee , dee , dee !
Oh , me , me !
Some folks can talk so very brave And then such cowards be . ''
It was Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
Reddy could n't think of a thing to say in reply , and so he hurried on , trying to find a place where he would be left in peace .
But nowhere that he could go was he free from those taunting voices .
Not even when he had crawled into his house was he free from them , for buzzing around his doorway was Bumble Bee and Bumble was humming : `` Bumble , grumble , rumble , hum !
Reddy surely can run some . ''
Late that afternoon old Granny Fox called him out , and it was clear to see that Granny was very much put out about something .
`` What is this I hear everywhere I go about you being a coward ? ''
she demanded sharply , as soon as he put his head out of the doorway .
Reddy hung his head , and in a very shamefaced way he told her about the terrible fright he had had and all about the strange creature without legs , head , or tail that had rolled down the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
`` Serves you right for boasting ! ''
snapped Granny .
`` How many times have I told you that no good comes of boasting ?
Probably somebody has played a trick on you .
I 've lived a good many years , and I never before heard of such a creature .
If there were one , I 'd have seen it before now .
You go back into the house and stay there .
You are a disgrace to the Fox family .
I am going to have a look about and find out what is going on .
If this is some trick , they 'll find that old Granny Fox is n't so easily fooled . ''
XV OLD GRANNY FOX INVESTIGATES In-vest-i-gate is a great big word , but its meaning is very simple .
To in-vest-i-gate is to look into and try to find out all about something .
That is what old Granny Fox started to do after Reddy had told her about the terrible fright he had had at the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
Now old Granny Fox is very sly and smart and clever , as you all know .
Compared with her , Reddy Fox is almost stupid .
He may be as sly and smart and clever some day , but he has got a lot to learn before then .
Now if it had been Reddy who was going to investigate , he would have gone straight over to Prickly Porky 's hill and looked around and asked sly questions , and everybody whom he met would have known that he was trying to find out something .
But old Granny Fox did nothing of the kind .
Oh , my , no !
She went about hunting her dinner just as usual and did n't appear to be paying the least attention to what was going on about her .
With her nose to the ground she ran this way and ran that way as if hunting for a trail .
She peered into old hollow logs and looked under little brush piles , and so , in course of time , she came to the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
Now Reddy had told Granny that the terrible creature that had so frightened him had rolled down the hill at him , for he was at the bottom .
Granny had heard that the same thing had happened to Peter Rabbit and to Unc ' Billy Possum .
So instead of coming to the hill along the hollow at the bottom , she came to it from the other way .
`` If there is anything there , I 'll be behind it instead of in front of it , '' she thought shrewdly .
As she drew near where Prickly Porky lives , she kept eyes and ears wide open , all the time pretending to pay attention to nothing but the hunt for her dinner .
No one would ever have guessed that she was thinking of anything else .
She ran this way and that way all over the hill , but nothing out of the usual did she see or hear excepting one thing : she did find some queer marks down the hill as if something might have rolled there .
She followed these down to the bottom , but there they disappeared .
As she was trotting home along the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest , she met Unc ' Billy Possum .
No , she did n't exactly meet him , because he saw her before she saw him , and he promptly climbed a tree .
`` Ah suppose yo'all heard of the terrible creature that scared Reddy almost out of his wits early this mo ` ning , '' said Unc ' Billy .
Granny stopped and looked up .
`` It does n't take much to scare the young and innocent , Mr. Possum , '' she replied .
`` I do n't believe all I hear .
I 've just been hunting all over the hill where Prickly Porky lives , and I could n't find so much as a Wood Mouse for dinner .
Do you believe such a foolish tale , Mr. Possum ? ''
Unc ' Billy coughed behind one hand .
`` Yes , Mrs. Fox , Ah confess Ah done have to believe it , '' he replied .
`` Yo ' see , Ah done see that thing mah own self , and Ah just naturally has to believe mah own eyes . ''
`` Huh !
I 'd like to see it !
Maybe I 'd believe it then ! ''
snapped Granny Fox .
`` The only time to see it is just at sun-up , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
`` Anybody that comes along through that hollow at the foot of Brer Porky 's hill at sun-up is likely never to forget it .
Ah would n't do it again .
No , Sah , once is enough fo ' your Unc ' Billy . ''
`` Huh ! ''
snorted Granny and trotted on .
Unc ' Billy watched her out of sight and grinned broadly .
`` As sho ' as Brer Sun gets up to-morrow mo ` ning , Ol' Granny Fox will be there , '' he chuckled .
`` Ah must get word to Brer Porky and Brer Skunk and Brer Rabbit . ''
XVI OLD GRANNY FOX LOSES HER DIGNITY Unc ' Billy Possum had passed the word along to Jimmy Skunk , Peter Rabbit , and Prickly Porky that old Granny Fox would be on hand at sun-up to see for herself the strange creature which had frightened Reddy Fox at the foot of the hill where Prickly Porky lives .
How did Unc ' Billy know ?
Well , he just guessed .
He is quite as shrewd and clever as Granny Fox herself , and when he told her that the only time the strange creature everybody was talking about was seen was at sun-up , he guessed by the very way she sniffed and pretended not to believe it at all that she would visit Prickly Porky 's hill the next morning .
`` The ol' lady suspects that there is some trick , and we-uns have got to be very careful , '' warned Unc ' Billy , as he and his three friends put their heads together in the early evening .
`` She is done bound to come snooping around before sun-up , '' he continued , `` and we-uns must be out of sight , all excepting Brer Porky .
She 'll come just the way she did this afternoon , -- from back of the hill instead of along the holler . ''
Unc ' Billy was quite right .
Old Granny Fox felt very sure that some one was playing tricks , so she did n't wait until jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was out of bed .
She was at the top of the hill where Prickly Porky lives a full hour before sun-up , and there she sat down to wait .
She could n't see or hear anything in the least suspicious .
You see , Unc ' Billy Possum was quite out of sight , as he sat in the thickest part of a hemlock-tree , and Peter Rabbit was sitting perfectly still in a hollow log , and Jimmy Skunk was n't showing so much as the tip of his nose , as he lay just inside the doorway of an old house under the roots of a big stump .
Only Prickly Porky was to be seen , and he seemed to be asleep in his favorite tree .
Everything seemed to be just as old Granny Fox had seen it a hundred times before .
At last the Jolly Little Sunbeams began to dance through the Green Forest , chasing out the Black Shadows .
Redeye the Vireo awoke and at once began to sing , as is his way , not even waiting to get a mouthful of breakfast .
Prickly Porky yawned and grunted .
Then he climbed down from the tree he had been sitting in , walked slowly over to another , started to climb it , changed his mind , and began to poke around in the dead leaves .
Old Granny Fox arose and slowly stretched .
She glanced at Prickly Porky contemptuously .
She had seen him act in this stupid , uncertain way dozens of times before .
Then slowly , watching out sharply on both sides of her , without appearing to do so , she walked down the hill to the hollow at the foot .
Now old Granny Fox can be very dignified when she wants to be , and she was now .
She did n't hurry the least little bit .
She carried her big , plumey tail just so .
And she did n't once look behind her , for she felt sure that there was nothing out of the way there , and to have done so would have been quite undignified .
She had reached the bottom of the hill and was walking along the hollow , smiling to herself to think how easily some people are frightened , when her sharp ears caught a sound on the hill behind her .
She turned like a flash and then -- well , for a minute old Granny Fox was too surprised to do anything but stare .
There , rolling down the hill straight towards her , was the very thing Reddy had told her about .
At first Granny decided to stay right where she was and find out what this thing was , but the nearer it got , the stranger and more terrible it seemed .
It was just a great ball all covered with dried leaves , and yet somehow Granny felt sure that it was alive , although she could see no head or tail or legs .
The nearer it got , the stranger and more terrible it seemed .
Then Granny forgot her dignity .
Yes , Sir , she forgot her dignity .
In fact , she quite lost it altogether .
Granny Fox ran just as Reddy had run !
XVII GRANNY FOX CATCHES PETER RABBIT Now listen to this little tale That deals somewhat with folly , And shows how sometimes one may be A little bit too jolly .
No sooner was old Granny Fox out of sight , running as if she thought that every jump might be her last , than Jimmy Skunk came out from the hole under a big stump where he had been hiding , Peter Rabbit came out of the hollow log from which he had been peeping , and Unc ' Billy Possum dropped down from the hemlock-tree in which he had so carefully kept out of sight , and all three began to dance around Prickly Porky , laughing as if they were trying to split their sides .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
shouted Jimmy Skunk .
`` I wonder what Reddy Fox would have said if he could have seen old Granny go down that hollow ! ''
`` Ha , ha , ha ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit .
`` Did you see how her eyes popped out ? ''
`` Hee , hee , hee ! ''
squeaked Unc ' Billy Possum in his funny cracked voice .
`` Ah reckons she am bound to have sore feet if she keeps on running the way she started . ''
Prickly Porky did n't say a word .
He just smiled in a quiet sort of way as he slowly climbed up to the top of the hill .
Now old Granny Fox had been badly frightened .
Who would n't have been at seeing a strange creature without head , tail , or legs rolling down hill straight towards them ?
But Granny was too old and wise to run very far without cause .
She was hardly out of sight of the four little scamps who had been watching her when she stopped to see if that strange creature were following her .
It did n't take her long to decide that it was n't .
Then she did some quick thinking .
`` I said beforehand that there was some trick , and now I 'm sure of it , '' she muttered .
`` I have an idea that that good-for-nothing old Billy Possum knows something about it , and I 'm just going back to find out . ''
She wasted no time thinking about it , but began to steal back the way she had come .
Now , no one is lighter of foot than old Granny Fox , and no one knows better how to keep out of sight .
From tree to tree she crawled , sometimes flat on her stomach , until at last she reached the foot of the hill where she had just had such a fright .
There was nothing to be seen there , but up at the top of the hill she saw something that made a fierce , angry gleam come into her yellow eyes .
Then she smiled grimly .
`` The last laugh always is the best laugh , and this time I guess it is going to be mine , '' she said to herself .
Very slowly and carefully , so as not to so much as rustle a leaf , she began to crawl around so as to come up on the back side of the hill .
Now what old Granny Fox had seen was Peter Rabbit and Jimmy Skunk and Unc ' Billy Possum rolling over and over in the dried leaves , turning somersaults , and shouting and laughing , while Prickly Porky sat looking on and smiling .
Granny knew well enough what was tickling them so , and she knew too that they did n't dream but that she was still running away in fright .
At last they were so tired with their good time that they just had to stop for a rest .
`` Oh , dear , I 'm all out of breath , '' panted Peter , as he threw himself flat on the ground .
`` That was the funniest thing I ever saw .
I wonder who we -- '' Peter did n't finish .
No , Sir , Peter did n't finish .
Instead , he gave a frightened shriek as something red flashed out from under a low-growing hemlock-tree close behind him , and two black paws pinned him down , and sharp teeth caught him by the back of the neck .
Old Granny Fox had caught Peter Rabbit at last !
XVIII A FRIEND IN NEED IS A FRIEND INDEED The friendship which is truest , best , Is that which meets the trouble test .
No one really knows who his best friends are until he gets in trouble .
When everything is lovely and there is no sign of trouble anywhere , one may have ever and ever so many friends .
At least , it may seem so .
But let trouble come , and all too often these seeming friends disappear as if by magic , until only a few , sometimes a very few , are left .
These are the real friends , the true friends , and they are worth more than all the others put together .
Remember that if you are a true friend to any one , you will stand by him and help him , no matter what happens .
Sometimes it is almost worth while getting into trouble just to find out who your real friends are .
Peter Rabbit found out who some of his truest friends are when , because of his own carelessness , old Granny Fox caught him .
Peter has been in many tight places and had many terrible frights in his life , but never did he feel quite so helpless and hopeless as when he felt the black paws of old Granny Fox pinning him down and Granny 's sharp teeth in the loose skin on the back of his neck .
All he could do was to kick with all his might , and kicking was quite useless , for Granny took great care to keep out of the way of those stout hind legs of his .
Many , many times Granny Fox had tried to catch Peter , and always before Peter had been too smart for her , and had just made fun of her and laughed at her .
Now it was her turn to laugh , all because he had been careless and foolish .
You see , Peter had been so sure that Granny had had such a fright when she ran away from the strange creature that rolled down Prickly Porky 's hill at her that she would n't think of coming back , and so he had just given himself up to enjoying Granny 's fright .
At Peter 's scream of fright , Unc ' Billy Possum scampered for the nearest tree , and Jimmy Skunk dodged behind a big stump .
You see , it was so sudden that they really did n't know what had happened .
But Prickly Porky , whom some people call stupid , made no move to run away .
He happened to be looking at Peter when Granny caught him , and so he knew just what it meant .
A spark of anger flashed in his usually dull eyes and for once in his life Prickly Porky moved quickly .
The thousand little spears hidden in his coat suddenly stood on end and Prickly Porky made a fierce little rush forward .
-LSB- Illustration : `` Drop him ! ''
he grunted .
Page 89 .
-RSB- `` Drop him ! ''
he grunted .
Granny Fox just snarled and backed away , dragging Peter with her and keeping him between Prickly Porky and herself .
By this time Jimmy Skunk had recovered himself .
You know he is not afraid of anybody or anything .
He sprang out from behind the stump , looking a wee bit shame-faced , and started for old Granny Fox .
`` You let Peter Rabbit go ! ''
he commanded in a very threatening way .
Now the reason Jimmy Skunk is afraid of nobody is because he carries with him a little bag of very strong perfume which makes everybody sick but himself .
Granny Fox knows all about this .
For just a minute she hesitated .
Then she thought that if Jimmy used it , it would be as bad for Peter as for her , and she did n't believe Jimmy would use it .
So she kept on backing away , dragging Peter with her .
Then Unc ' Billy Possum took a hand , and his was the bravest deed of all , for he knew that Granny was more than a match for him in a fight .
He slipped down from the tree where he had sought safety , crept around behind Granny , and bit her sharply on one heel .
Granny let go of Peter to turn and snap at Unc ' Billy .
This was Peter 's chance .
He slipped out from under Granny 's paws and in a flash was behind Prickly Porky .
XIX JIMMY SKUNK TAKES WORD TO MRS. PETER When old Granny Fox found Prickly Porky , with his thousand little spears all pointing at her , standing between her and Peter Rabbit , she was the angriest old Fox ever seen .
She did n't dare touch Prickly Porky , for she knew well enough what it would mean to get one of those sharp , barbed little spears in her skin .
To think that she actually had caught Peter Rabbit and then lost him was too provoking !
It was more than her temper , never of the best , could stand .
In her anger she dug up the leaves and earth with her hind feet , and all the time her tongue fairly flew as she called Prickly Porky , Jimmy Skunk , and Unc ' Billy Possum everything bad she could think of .
Her yellow eyes snapped so that it seemed almost as if sparks of fire flew from them .
It made Peter shiver just to look at her .
Unc ' Billy Possum , who , by slipping up behind her and biting one of her heels , had made her let go of Peter , grinned down at her from a safe place in a tree .
Jimmy Skunk stood grinning at her in the most provoking manner , and she could n't do a thing about it , because she had no desire to have Jimmy use his little bag of perfume .
So she talked herself out and then with many parting threats of what she would do , she started for home .
Unc ' Billy noticed that she limped a little with the foot he had nipped so hard , and he could n't help feeling just a little bit sorry for her .
When she had gone , the others turned to Peter Rabbit to see how badly he had been hurt .
They looked him all over and found that he was n't much the worse for his rough experience .
He was rather stiff and lame , and the back of his neck was very sore where Granny Fox had seized him , but he would be quite himself in a day or two .
`` I must get home now , '' said he in a rather faint voice .
`` Mrs. Peter will be sure that something has happened to me and will be worried almost to death . ''
`` No , you do n't ! ''
declared Jimmy Skunk .
`` You are going to stay right here where we can take care of you .
It would n't be safe for you to try to go to the Old Briar-patch now , because if you should meet Old Man Coyote or Reddy Fox or Whitetail the Marshhawk , you would not be able to run fast enough to get away .
I will go down and tell Mrs. Peter , and you will make yourself comfortable in the old house behind that stump where I was hiding . ''
Peter tried to insist on going home , but the others would n't hear of it , and Jimmy Skunk settled the matter by starting for the dear Old Briar-patch .
He found little Mrs. Peter anxiously looking towards the Green Forest for some sign of Peter .
`` Oh ! ''
she cried , `` you have come to bring me bad news .
Do tell me quickly what has happened to Peter ! ''
`` Nothing much has happened to Peter , '' replied Jimmy promptly .
Then in the drollest way he told all about the fright of Granny Fox when she first saw the terrible creature rolling down the hill and all that happened after , but he took great care to make light of Peter 's escape , and explained that he was just going to rest up there on Prickly Porky 's hill for that day and would be home the next night .
But little Mrs. Peter was n't wholly satisfied .
`` I 've begged him and begged him to keep away from the Green Forest , '' said she , `` but now if he is hurt so that he ca n't come home , he needs me , and I 'm going straight up there myself ! ''
Nothing that Jimmy could say had the least effect , and so at last he agreed to take her to Peter .
And so , hopping behind Jimmy Skunk , timid little Mrs. Peter Rabbit actually went into the Green Forest of which she was so much afraid , which shows how brave love can be sometimes .
XX A PLOT TO FRIGHTEN OLD MAN COYOTE Mischief leads to mischief , for it is almost sure To never , never be content without a little more .
Now you would think that after Peter Rabbit 's very , very , narrow escape from the clutches of Old Granny Fox that Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , Peter Rabbit , and Prickly Porky would have been satisfied with the pranks they already had played .
No , Sir , they were not !
You see , when danger is over , it is quickly forgotten .
No sooner had Peter been made comfortable in the old house behind the big stump on the hill where Prickly Porky lives than the four scamps began to wonder who else they could scare with the terrible creature without head , legs , or tail which had so frightened Reddy and Old Granny Fox .
`` There is Old Man Coyote ; he is forever frightening those smaller and weaker than himself .
I 'd just love to see him run , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` The very one ! ''
cried Jimmy Skunk .
`` I wonder if he would be afraid .
You know he is even smarter than Granny Fox , and though she was frightened at first , she soon got over it .
How do you suppose we can get him over here ? ''
`` We-uns will take Brer Jay into our secret .
Brer Jay will tell Brer Coyote that Brer Rabbit is up here on Brer Porky 's hill , hurt so that he ca n't get home , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` That 's all Brer Jay need to say .
Brer Coyote is gwine to come up here hot foot with his tongue hanging out fo ' that dinner he 's sho ' is waiting fo ' him here . ''
`` You wo n't do anything of the kind ! ''
spoke up little Mrs. Peter , who , you know , had bravely left the dear Old Briar-patch and come up here in the Green Forest to take care of Peter .
`` Peter has had trouble enough already , and I 'm not going to let him have any more , so there ! ''
`` Peter is n't going to get into any trouble , '' spoke up Jimmy Skunk .
`` Peter and you are going to be just as safe as if you were over in the Old Briar-patch , for you will be in that old house where nothing can harm you .
Now , please , Mrs. Peter , do n't be foolish .
You do n't like Old Man Coyote , do you ?
You 'd like to see him get a great scare to make up for the scares he has given Peter and you , would n't you ? ''
Little Mrs. Peter was forced to admit that she would , and after a little more teasing she finally agreed to let them try their plan for giving Old Man Coyote a scare .
Sammy Jay happened along just as Jimmy Skunk was starting out to look for him , and when he was told what was wanted of him , he agreed to do his part .
You know Sammy is always ready for any mischief .
Just as he started to look for Old Man Coyote , Unc ' Billy Possum made another suggestion .
`` We-uns have had a lot of fun with Reddy and Granny Fox , '' said he , `` and now it seems to me that it is no more than fair to invite them over to see Old Man Coyote and what he will do when he first sees the terrible creature that has frightened them so .
Granny knows now that there is nothing to be afraid of , and perhaps she will forget her anger if she has a chance to see Old Man Coyote run away .
Yo ' know she is n't wasting any love on him .
What do yo ' alls say ? ''
Peter and Mrs. Peter said `` No ! ''
right away , but Jimmy Skunk and Prickly Porky thought it a good idea , and of course Sammy Jay was willing .
After a little , when it was once more pointed out to them how they would be perfectly safe in the old house behind the big stump , Peter and Mrs. Peter agreed , and Sammy started off on his errand .
XXI SAMMY JAY DELIVERS HIS MESSAGE Sammy Jay has been the bearer of so many messages that no one knows better than he how to deliver one .
He knows when to be polite , and no one can be more polite than he .
First he went over to the home of Reddy and Granny Fox and invited them to come over to the hill where Prickly Porky lives and see the terrible creature which had frightened them so give Old Man Coyote a scare .
Both Reddy and Granny promptly said they would do nothing of the kind , that probably Sammy was engaged in some kind of mischief , and that anyway they knew that there was no such creature without head , legs , or tail , and though they had been fooled once , they did n't propose to be fooled again .
`` All right , '' replied Sammy , quite as if it made no difference to him .
`` You admit that smart as you are you were fooled , and we thought you might like to see the same thing happen to Old Man Coyote . ''
With this he flew on his way to the Green Meadows to look for Old Man Coyote , and as he flew he chuckled to himself .
`` They 'll be there , '' he muttered .
`` I know them well enough to know that nothing would keep them away when there is a chance to see some one else frightened , especially Old Man Coyote .
They 'll try to keep out of sight , but they 'll be there . ''
Sammy found Old Man Coyote taking a sun-bath .
`` Good morning , Mr. Coyote .
I hope you are feeling well , '' said Sammy in his politest manner .
`` Fairly , fairly , thank you , '' replied Old Man Coyote , all the time watching Sammy sharply out of the corners of his shrewd eyes .
`` What 's the news in the Green Forest ? ''
`` There is n't any , that is , none to amount to anything , '' declared Sammy .
`` I never did see such a dull summer .
Is there any news down here on the Green Meadows ?
I hear Danny Meadow Mouse has found his lost baby . ''
`` So I hear , '' replied Old Man Coyote .
`` I tried to find it for him .
You know I believe in being neighborly . ''
Sammy grinned , for as he said this , Old Man Coyote had winked one eye ever so little , and Sammy knew very well that if he had found that lost baby , Danny Meadow Mouse would never have seen him again .
`` By the way , '' said Sammy in the most matter-of-fact tone , `` as I was coming through the Green Forest , I saw Peter Rabbit over on the hill where Prickly Porky lives , and Peter seems to have been in some kind of trouble .
He was so lame that he said he did n't dare try to go home to the Old Briar-patch for fear that he might meet some one looking for a Rabbit dinner , and he knew that , feeling as he did , he would n't be able to save himself .
Peter is going to come to a bad end some day if he does n't watch out . ''
`` That depends on what you call a bad end , '' replied Old Man Coyote with a sly grin .
`` It might be bad for Peter and at the same time be very good for some one else . ''
Sammy laughed right out .
`` That 's one way of looking at it , '' said he .
`` Well , I should hate to have anything happen to Peter , because I have lots of fun quarreling with him and should miss him dreadfully .
I think I 'll go up to the Old Orchard and see what is going on there . ''
Off flew Sammy in the direction of the Old Orchard , and once more he chuckled as he flew .
He had seen Old Man Coyote 's ears prick up ever so little when he had mentioned that Peter was over in the Green Forest so lame that he did n't dare go home .
`` Old Man Coyote will start for the Green Forest as soon as I am out of sight , '' thought Sammy .
And that is just what Old Man Coyote did .
XXII OLD MAN COYOTE LOSES HIS APPETITE Hardly was Sammy Jay out of sight , flying towards the Old Orchard , before Old Man Coyote started for the Green Forest .
He is very sharp , is Old Man Coyote , so sharp that it is not very often that he is fooled .
If Sammy Jay had gone to him and told him what a splendid chance he would have to catch Peter Rabbit if he hurried up to the Green Forest right away , Old Man Coyote would have suspected a trick of some kind .
Sammy had been clever enough to know this .
So he had just mentioned in the most matter-of-fact way that he had seen Peter over on Prickly Porky 's hill and that Peter appeared to have been in trouble , so that he was too lame to go to his home in the dear Old Briar-patch .
There was n't even a hint that Old Man Coyote should go over there .
This was what made him sure that the news about Peter was probably true .
Now as soon as Sammy was sure that Old Man Coyote could n't see him , he headed straight for the Green Forest and the hill where Prickly Porky , Jimmy Skunk , Unc ' Billy Possum , and Peter and Mrs. Peter Rabbit were waiting .
As he flew , he saw Reddy Fox and old Granny Fox stretched flat behind an old log some distance away , but where they could see all that might happen .
`` I knew they would be on hand , '' he chuckled .
When he reached the others , he reported that he had delivered the message to Old Man Coyote , and that he was very sure , in fact he was positive , that Old Man Coyote was already on his way there in the hope that he would be able to catch Peter Rabbit .
It was decided that everybody but Peter should get out of sight at once .
So Unc ' Billy Possum climbed a tree .
Jimmy Skunk crawled into a hollow log .
Sammy Jay hid in the thickest part of a hemlock tree .
Prickly Porky got behind a big stump right at the top of the hill .
Little Mrs. Peter , with her heart going pit-a-pat , crept into the old house between the roots of this same old stump , and only Peter was to be seen when at last Old Man Coyote came tiptoeing along the hollow at the foot of the hill , as noiseless as a gray shadow .
He saw Peter almost as soon as Peter saw him , and the instant he saw him , he stopped as still as if he were made of stone .
Peter took a couple of steps , and it was very plain to see that he was lame , just as Sammy Jay had said .
`` That good-for-nothing Jay told the truth for once , '' thought Old Man Coyote , with a hungry gleam in his eyes .
Whenever Old Man Coyote thought that Peter was not looking his way , he would crawl on his stomach from one tree to another , always getting a little nearer to Peter .
He would lie perfectly still when Peter seemed to be looking towards him .
Now of course Peter knew just what was going on , and he took the greatest care not to get more than a couple of jumps away from the old house under the big stump , where Mrs. Peter was hiding and wishing with all her might that she and Peter were back in the dear Old Briar-patch .
It was very still in the Green Forest save for the song of happiness of Redeye the Vireo who , if he knew what was going on , made no sign .
My , but it was exciting to those who were watching !
Old Man Coyote had crept half-way up the hill , and Peter was wondering how much nearer he could let him get with safety , when a sudden grunting broke out right behind him .
Peter knew what it meant and jumped to one side .
Then down the hill , rolling straight towards Old Man Coyote , started the strange , headless , tailess , legless creature that had so frightened Reddy and Granny Fox .
Old Man Coyote took one good look , hesitated , looked again , and then turned tail and started for the Green Meadows as fast as his long legs would take him .
It was plain to see that he was afraid , very much afraid .
Quite suddenly he had lost his appetite .
XXIII BUSTER BEAR GIVES IT ALL AWAY It was very clear that Old Man Coyote was n't thinking about his stomach just then , but about his legs and how fast they could go .
He had been half-way up the hill when he first saw the terrible creature without head , tail , or legs rolling down straight at him .
He stopped only long enough for one good look and then he started for the bottom of the hill as fast as he could make his legs go .
Now , it is a very bad plan to run fast down-hill .
Yes , Sir , it is a very bad plan .
You see , once you are started , it is not the easiest thing in the world to stop .
And then again , you are quite likely to stub your toes .
This is what Old Man Coyote did .
He stubbed his toes and turned a complete somersault .
He looked so funny that the little scamps watching him had all they could do to keep from shouting right out .
Old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox , looking on from a safe distance , did laugh .
You know they had not been friendly with Old Man Coyote since he came to live on the Green Meadows , and as they had themselves had a terrible fright when they first saw the strange creature , they rejoiced in seeing him frightened .
But Old Man Coyote did n't stop for a little thing like a tumble .
Oh , my , no !
He just rolled over on to his feet and was off again , harder than before .
Now there are very few people who can see behind them without turning their heads as Peter Rabbit can , and Old Man Coyote is not one of them .
Trying to watch behind him , he did n't see where he was going , and the first thing he knew he ran bump into -- guess who !
Why , Buster Bear , to be sure .
Where Buster had come from nobody knew , but there he was , as big as life .
When Old Man Coyote ran into him , he growled a deep , provoked growl and whirled around with one big paw raised to cuff whoever had so nearly upset him .
Old Man Coyote , more frightened than ever , yelped and ran harder than before , so that by the time Buster Bear saw who it was who had run into him , he was safely out of reach and still running .
Then it was that Buster Bear first saw , rolling down the hill , the strange creature which had so frightened Old Man Coyote .
Unc ' Billy Possum , Jimmy Skunk , Sammy Jay , Peter Rabbit and Mrs. Peter , watching from safe hiding places , wondered if Buster would run too .
If he did , it would be almost too good to be true .
But he did n't .
He looked first at the strange creature rolling down the hill , then at Old Man Coyote running as hard as ever he could , and his shrewd little eyes began to twinkle .
Then he began to laugh .
`` Ha , ha , ha !
Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ho !
I see you are up to your old tricks , Prickly Porky ! ''
he shouted , as the strange creature rolled past , almost over his toes and brought up against a little tree at the foot of the hill .
-LSB- Illustration : `` I see you are up to your old tricks , Prickly Porky ! ''
he shouted .
Page 114 .
-RSB- Old Man Coyote heard him and stopped short and turned to see what it meant .
Very slowly the strange creature unrolled and turned over .
There was a head now and a tail and four legs .
It was none other than Prickly Porky himself !
There was no doubt about it , though he still looked very strange , for he was covered with dead leaves which clung to the thousand little spears hidden in his coat .
Prickly Porky grinned .
`` You should n't have given me away , Buster Bear , just because you have seen me roll down hill before in the Great Woods where we both came from , '' said he .
`` I think it was high time I did , '' replied Buster Bear , still chuckling .
`` You might have scared somebody to death down here where they do n't know you . ''
Then everybody came out of their hiding places , laughing and talking all at once , as they told Buster Bear of the joke they had played on Old Man Coyote , and how it had all grown out of the fright Peter Rabbit had received when he just happened along as Prickly Porky was rolling down hill just for fun .
As for Old Man Coyote , he sneaked away , grinding his teeth angrily .
Like a great many other people , he could n't take a joke on himself .
So Prickly Porky made himself at home in the Green Forest and took his place among the little people who live there .
In just the same way Old Man Coyote came as a stranger to the Green Meadows and established himself there .
In the next book you may read all about how he came to the Green Meadows and of some of his adventures there and in the Green Forest .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Reddy_Fox.txt.out
I. Granny Fox Gives Reddy a Scare Reddy Fox lived with Granny Fox .
You see , Reddy was one of a large family , so large that Mother Fox had hard work to feed so many hungry little mouths and so she had let Reddy go to live with old Granny Fox .
Granny Fox was the wisest , slyest , smartest fox in all the country round , and now that Reddy had grown so big , she thought it about time that he began to learn the things that every fox should know .
So every day she took him hunting with her and taught him all the things that she had learned about hunting : about how to steal Farmer Brown 's chickens without awakening Bowser the Hound , and all about the thousand and one ways of fooling a dog which she had learned .
This morning Granny Fox had taken Reddy across the Green Meadows , up through the Green Forest , and over to the railroad track .
Reddy had never been there before and he did n't know just what to make of it .
Granny trotted ahead until they came to a long bridge .
Then she stopped .
`` Come here , Reddy , and look down , '' she commanded .
Reddy did as he was told , but a glance down made him giddy , so giddy that he nearly fell .
Granny Fox grinned .
`` Come across , '' said she , and ran lightly across to the other side .
But Reddy Fox was afraid .
Yes , Sir , he was afraid to take one step on the long bridge .
He was afraid that he would fall through into the water or onto the cruel rocks below .
Granny Fox ran back to where Reddy sat .
`` For shame , Reddy Fox ! ''
said she .
`` What are you afraid of ?
Just do n't look down and you will be safe enough .
Now come along over with me . ''
But Reddy Fox hung back and begged to go home and whimpered .
Suddenly Granny Fox sprang to her feet , as if in great fright .
`` Bowser the Hound !
Come , Reddy , come ! ''
she cried , and started across the bridge as fast as she could go .
Reddy did n't stop to look or to think .
His one idea was to get away from Bowser the Hound .
`` Wait , Granny !
Wait ! ''
he cried , and started after her as fast as he could run .
He was in the middle of the bridge before he remembered it at all .
When he was at last safely across , it was to find old Granny Fox sitting down laughing at him .
Then for the first time Reddy looked behind him to see where Bowser the Hound might be .
He was nowhere to be seen .
Could he have fallen off the bridge ?
`` Where is Bowser the Hound ? ''
cried Reddy .
`` Home in Farmer Brown 's dooryard , '' replied Granny Fox dryly .
Reddy stared at her for a minute .
Then he began to understand that Granny Fox had simply scared him into running across the bridge .
Reddy felt very cheap , very cheap indeed .
`` Now we 'll run back again , '' said Granny Fox .
And this time Reddy did .
II .
Granny Shows Reddy a Trick Every day Granny Fox led Reddy Fox over to the long railroad bridge and made him run back and forth across it until he had no fear of it whatever .
At first it had made him dizzy , but now he could run across at the top of his speed and not mind it in the least .
`` I do n't see what good it does to be able to run across a bridge ; anyone can do that ! ''
exclaimed Reddy one day .
Granny Fox smiled .
`` Do you remember the first time you tried to do it ? ''
she asked .
Reddy hung his head .
Of course he remembered -- remembered that Granny had had to scare him into crossing that first time .
Suddenly Granny Fox lifted her head .
`` Hark ! ''
she exclaimed .
Reddy pricked up his sharp , pointed ears .
Way off back , in the direction from which they had come , they heard the baying of a dog .
It was n't the voice of Bowser the Hound but of a younger dog .
Granny listened for a few minutes .
The voice of the dog grew louder as it drew nearer .
`` He certainly is following our track , '' said Granny Fox .
`` Now , Reddy , you run across the bridge and watch from the top of the little hill over there .
Perhaps I can show you a trick that will teach you why I have made you learn to run across the bridge . ''
Reddy trotted across the long bridge and up to the top of the hill , as Granny had told him to .
Then he sat down to watch .
Granny trotted out in the middle of a field and sat down .
Pretty soon a young hound broke out of the bushes , his nose in Granny 's track .
Then he looked up and saw her , and his voice grew still more savage and eager .
Granny Fox started to run as soon as she was sure that the hound had seen her , but she did not run very fast .
Reddy did not know what to make of it , for Granny seemed simply to be playing with the hound and not really trying to get away from him at all .
Pretty soon Reddy heard another sound .
It was a long , low rumble .
Then there was a distant whistle .
It was a train .
Granny heard it , too .
As she ran , she began to work back toward the long bridge .
The train was in sight now .
Suddenly Granny Fox started across the bridge so fast that she looked like a little red streak .
The dog was close at her heels when she started and he was so eager to catch her that he did n't see either the bridge or the train .
But he could n't begin to run as fast as Granny Fox .
Oh , my , no !
When she had reached the other side , he was n't halfway across , and right behind him , whistling for him to get out of the way , was the train .
The hound gave one frightened yelp , and then he did the only thing he could do ; he leaped down , down into the swift water below , and the last Reddy saw of him he was frantically trying to swim ashore .
`` Now you know why I wanted you to learn to cross a bridge ; it 's a very nice way of getting rid of dogs , '' said Granny Fox , as she climbed up beside Reddy .
III .
Bowser the Hound Is n't Fooled Reddy Fox had been taught so much by Granny Fox that he began to feel very wise and very important .
Reddy is naturally smart and he had been very quick to learn the tricks that old Granny Fox had taught him .
But Reddy Fox is a boaster .
Every day he swaggered about on the Green Meadows and bragged how smart he was .
Blacky the Crow grew tired of Reddy 's boasting .
`` If you 're so smart , what is the reason you always keep out of sight of Bowser the Hound ? ''
asked Blacky .
`` For my part , I do n't believe that you are smart enough to fool him . ''
A lot of little meadow people heard Blacky say this , and Reddy knew it .
He also knew that if he did n't prove Blacky in the wrong he would be laughed at forever after .
Suddenly he remembered the trick that Granny Fox had played on the young hound at the railroad bridge .
Why not play the same trick on Bowser and invite Blacky the Crow to see him do it ?
He would .
`` If you will be over at the railroad bridge when the train comes this afternoon , I 'll show you how easy it is to fool Bowser the Hound , '' said Reddy .
Blacky agreed to be there , and Reddy started off to find out where Bowser was .
Blacky told everyone he met how Reddy Fox had promised to fool Bowser the Hound , and every time he told it he chuckled as if he thought it the best joke ever .
Blacky the Crow was on hand promptly that afternoon and with him came his cousin , Sammy Jay .
Presently they saw Reddy Fox hurrying across the fields , and behind him in full cry came Bowser the Hound .
Just as old Granny Fox had done with the young hound , Reddy allowed Bowser to get very near him and then , as the train came roaring along , he raced across the long bridge just ahead of it .
He had thought that Bowser would be so intent on catching him that he would not notice the train until he was on the bridge and it was too late , as had been the case with the young hound .
Then Bowser would have to jump down into the swift river or be run over .
As soon as Reddy was across the bridge , he jumped off the track and turned to see what would happen to Bowser the Hound .
The train was halfway across the bridge , but Bowser was nowhere to be seen .
He must have jumped already .
Reddy sat down and grinned in the most self-satisfied way .
The long train roared past , and Reddy closed his eyes to shut out the dust and smoke .
When he opened them again , he looked right into the wide-open mouth of Bowser the Hound , who was not ten feet away .
`` Did you think you could fool me with that old trick ? ''
roared Bowser .
Reddy did n't stop to make reply ; he just started off at the top of his speed , a badly frightened little fox .
You see , Bowser the Hound knew all about that trick and he had just waited until the train had passed and then had run across the bridge right behind it .
And as Reddy Fox , out of breath and tired , ran to seek the aid of Granny Fox in getting rid of Bowser the Hound , he heard a sound that made him grind his teeth .
`` Haw , haw , haw !
How smart we are ! ''
It was Blacky the Crow .
IV .
Reddy Fox Grows Bold Reddy Fox was growing bold .
Everybody said so , and what everybody says must be so .
Reddy Fox had always been very sly and not bold at all .
The truth is Reddy Fox had so many times fooled Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy that he had begun to think himself very smart indeed .
He had really fooled himself .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox had fooled himself .
He thought himself so smart that nobody could fool him .
Now it is one of the worst habits in the world to think too much of one 's self .
And Reddy Fox had the habit .
Oh , my , yes !
Reddy Fox certainly did have the habit !
When anyone mentioned Bowser the Hound , Reddy would turn up his nose and say : `` Pooh !
It 's the easiest thing in the world to fool him . ''
You see , he had forgotten all about the time Bowser had fooled him at the railroad bridge .
Whenever Reddy saw Farmer Brown 's boy he would say with the greatest scorn : `` Who 's afraid of him ?
Not I ! ''
So as Reddy Fox thought more and more of his own smartness , he grew bolder and bolder .
Almost every night he visited Farmer Brown 's henyard .
Farmer Brown set traps all around the yard , but Reddy always found them and kept out of them .
It got so that Unc ' Billy Possum and Jimmy Skunk did n't dare go to the henhouse for eggs any more , for fear that they would get into one of the traps set for Reddy Fox .
Of course they missed those fresh eggs and of course they blamed Reddy Fox .
`` Never mind , '' said Jimmy Skunk , scowling down on the Green Meadows where Reddy Fox was taking a sun bath , `` Farmer Brown 's boy will get him yet !
I hope he does ! ''
Jimmy said this a little spitefully and just as if he really meant it .
Now when people think that they are very , very smart , they like to show off .
You know it is n't any fun at all to feel smart unless others can see how smart you are .
So Reddy Fox , just to show off , grew very bold , very bold indeed .
He actually went up to Farmer Brown 's henyard in broad daylight , and almost under the nose of Bowser the Hound he caught the pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy .
` Ol Mistah Buzzard , sailing overhead high up in the blue , blue sky , saw Reddy Fox and shook his bald head : `` Ah see Trouble on the way ; Yes , Ah do !
Yes , Ah do !
Hope it ai n't a-gwine to stay ; Yes , Ah do !
Yes , Ah do !
Trouble am a spry ol' man , Bound to find yo ' if he can ; If he finds yo ' bound to stick .
When Ah sees him , Ah runs quick !
Yes , Ah do !
Yes , Ah do ! ''
But Reddy Fox thought himself so smart that it seemed as if he really were hunting for Ol' Mr. Trouble .
And when he caught the pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy , Ol' Mr. Trouble was right at his heels .
V. Reddy Grows Careless Ol' Mistah Buzzard was right .
Trouble was right at the heels of Reddy Fox , although Reddy would n't have believed it if he had been told .
He had stolen that plump pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy for no reason under the sun but to show off .
He wanted everyone to know how bold he was .
He thought himself so smart that he could do just exactly what he pleased and no one could stop him .
He liked to strut around through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows and brag about what he had done and what he could do .
Now people who brag and boast and who like to show off are almost sure to come to grief .
And when they do , very few people are sorry for them .
None of the little meadow and forest people liked Reddy Fox , anyway , and they were getting so tired of his boasting that they just ached to see him get into trouble .
Yes , Sir , they just ached to see Reddy get into trouble .
Peter Rabbit , happy-go-lucky Peter Rabbit , shook his head gravely when he heard how Reddy had stolen that pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy , and was boasting about it to everyone .
`` Reddy Fox is getting so puffed up that pretty soon he wo n't be able to see his own feet , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Well , what if he does n't ? ''
demanded Jimmy Skunk .
Peter looked at Jimmy in disgust : `` He comes to grief , however fleet , Who does n't watch his flying feet .
`` Jimmy Skunk , if you did n't have that little bag of scent that everybody is afraid of , you would be a lot more careful where you step , '' replied Peter .
`` If Reddy does n't watch out , someday he 'll step right into a trap . ''
Jimmy Skunk chuckled .
`` I wish he would ! ''
said he .
Now when Farmer Brown 's boy heard about the boldness of Reddy Fox , he shut his mouth tight in a way that was unpleasant to see and reached for his gun .
`` I ca n't afford to raise chickens to feed foxes ! ''
said he .
Then he whistled for Bowser the Hound , and together they started out .
It was n't long before Bowser found Reddy 's tracks .
`` Bow , wow , wow , wow ! ''
roared Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox , taking a nap on the edge of the Green Forest , heard Bowser 's big , deep voice .
He pricked up his ears , then he grinned .
`` I feel just like a good run today , '' said he , and trotted off along the Crooked Little Path down the hill .
Now this was a beautiful summer day and Reddy knew that in summer men and boys seldom hunt foxes .
`` It 's only Bowser the Hound , '' thought Reddy , `` and when I 've had a good run , I 'll play a trick on him so that he will lose my track . ''
So Reddy did n't use his eyes as he should have done .
You see , he thought himself so smart that he had grown careless .
Yes , Sir , Reddy Fox had grown careless .
He kept looking back to see where Bowser the Hound was , but did n't look around to make sure that no other danger was near .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard , sailing round and round , way up in the blue , blue sky , could see everything going on down below .
He could see Reddy Fox running along the edge of the Green Forest and every few minutes stopping to chuckle and listen to Bowser the Hound trying to pick out the trail Reddy had made so hard to follow by his twists and turns .
And he saw something else , did Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
It looked to him very much like the barrel of a gun sticking out from behind an old tree just ahead of Reddy .
`` Ah reckon it 's just like Ah said : Reddy Fox is gwine to meet trouble right smart soon , '' muttered Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
VI .
Drummer the Woodpecker Drums in Vain Once upon a time , before he had grown to think himself so very , very smart , Reddy Fox would never , never have thought of running without watching out in every direction .
He would have seen that thing that looked like the barrel of a gun sticking out from behind the old tree toward which he was running , and he would have been very suspicious , very suspicious indeed .
But now all Reddy could think of was what a splendid chance he had to show all the little meadow and forest people what a bold , smart fellow he was .
So once more Reddy sat down and waited until Bowser the Hound was almost up to him .
Just then Drummer the Woodpecker began to make a tremendous noise -- rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
Now everybody who heard that rat-a-tat-tat-tat knew that it was a danger signal .
Drummer the Woodpecker never drums just that way for pleasure .
But Reddy Fox paid no attention to it .
He did n't notice it at all .
You see , he was so full of the idea of his own smartness that he did n't have room for anything else .
`` Stupid thing ! ''
said Drummer the Woodpecker to himself .
`` I do n't know what I am trying to warn him for , anyway .
The Green Meadows and the Green Forest would be better off without him , a lot better off !
Nobody likes him .
He 's a dreadful bully and is all the time trying to catch or scare to death those who are smaller than he .
Still , he is so handsome ! ''
Drummer cocked his head on one side and looked over at Reddy Fox .
Reddy was laughing to see how hard Bowser the Hound was working to untangle Reddy 's mixed-up trail .
`` Yes , Sir , he certainly is handsome , '' said Drummer once more .
Then he looked down at the foot of the old tree on which he was sitting , and what he saw caused Drummer to make up his mind .
`` I surely would miss seeing that beautiful red coat of his !
I surely would ! ''
he muttered .
`` If he does n't hear and heed now , it wo n't be my fault ! ''
Then Drummer the Woodpecker began such a furious rat-a-tat-tat-tat on the trunk of the old tree that it rang through the Green Forest and out across the Green Meadows almost to the Purple Hills .
Down at the foot of the tree a freckled face on which there was a black scowl looked up .
It was the face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` What ails that pesky woodpecker ? ''
he muttered .
`` If he does n't keep still , he 'll scare that fox ! ''
He shook a fist at Drummer , but Drummer did n't appear to notice .
He kept right on , rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat , rat-a-tat-tat-tat !
VII .
Too Late Reddy Fox Hears Drummer the Woodpecker was pounding out his danger signal so fast and so hard that his red head flew back and forth almost too fast to see .
Rat-a-tat-tat-a-tat-tat , beat Drummer on the old tree trunk on the edge of the Green Forest .
When he stopped for breath , he looked down into the scowling face of Farmer Brown 's boy , who was hiding behind the old tree trunk .
Drummer did n't like the looks of that scowl , not a bit .
And he did n't like the looks of the gun which Farmer Brown 's boy had .
He knew that Farmer Brown 's boy was hiding there to shoot Reddy Fox , but Drummer was beginning to be afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy might guess what all that drumming meant -- that it was a warning to Reddy Fox .
And if Farmer Brown 's boy did guess that , why -- why -- anyway , on the other side of the tree there was a better place to drum .
So Drummer the Woodpecker crept around to the other side of the tree and in a minute was drumming harder than ever .
Whenever he stopped for breath , he looked out over the Green Meadows to see if Reddy Fox had heard his warning .
But if Reddy had heard , he had n't heeded .
Just to show off before all the little meadow and forest people , Reddy had waited until Bowser the Hound had almost reached him .
Then , with a saucy flirt of his tail , Reddy Fox started to show how fast he could run , and that is very fast indeed .
It made Bowser the Hound seem very slow , as , with his nose to the ground , he came racing after Reddy , making a tremendous noise with his great voice .
Now Reddy Fox had grown as careless as he had grown bold .
Instead of looking sharply ahead , he looked this way and that way to see who was watching and admiring him .
So he took no note of where he was going and started straight for the old tree trunk on which Drummer the Woodpecker was pounding out his warning of danger .
Now Reddy Fox has sharp eyes and very quick ears .
My , my , indeed he has !
But just now Reddy was as deaf as if he had cotton stuffed in his ears .
He was chuckling to himself to think how he was going to fool Bowser the Hound and how smart everyone would think him , when all of a sudden , he heard the rat-a-tat-tata-tat-tat of Drummer the Woodpecker and knew that that meant `` Danger ! ''
For just a wee little second it seemed to Reddy Fox that his heart stopped beating .
He could n't stop running , for he had let Bowser the Hound get too close for that .
Reddy 's sharp eyes saw Drummer the Woodpecker near the top of the old tree trunk and noticed that Drummer seemed to be looking at something down below .
Reddy Fox gave one quick look at the foot of the old tree trunk and saw a gun pointed at him and behind the gun the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Reddy Fox gave a little gasp of fright and turned so suddenly that he almost fell flat .
Then he began to run as never in his life had he run before .
It seemed as though his flying feet hardly touched the grass .
His eyes were popping out with fright as with every jump he tried to run just a wee bit faster .
Bang !
Bang !
Two flashes of fire and two puffs of smoke darted from behind the old tree trunk .
Drummer the Woodpecker gave a frightened scream and flew deep into the Green Forest .
Peter Rabbit flattened himself under a friendly bramble bush .
Johnny Chuck dived headfirst down his doorway .
Reddy Fox gave a yelp , a shrill little yelp of pain , and suddenly began to go lame .
But Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know that .
He thought he had missed and he growled to himself : `` I 'll get that fox yet for stealing my pet chicken ! ''
VIII .
Granny Fox Takes Care of Reddy Reddy Fox was so sore and lame that he could hardly hobble .
He had had the hardest kind of work to get far enough ahead of Bowser the Hound to mix his trail up so that Bowser could n't follow it .
Then he had limped home , big tears running down his nose , although he tried hard not to cry .
`` Oh !
Oh !
Oh ! ''
moaned Reddy Fox , as he crept in at the doorway of his home .
`` What 's the matter now ? ''
snapped old Granny Fox , who had just waked up from a sun nap .
`` I -- I 've got hurt , '' said Reddy Fox , and began to cry harder .
Granny Fox looked at Reddy sharply .
`` What have you been doing now -- tearing your clothes on a barbed-wire fence or trying to crawl through a bull-briar thicket ?
I should think you were big enough by this time to look out for yourself ! ''
said Granny Fox crossly , as she came over to look at Reddy 's hurts .
`` Please do n't scold , please do n't , Granny Fox , '' begged Reddy , who was beginning to feel sick to his stomach as well as lame , and to smart dreadfully .
Granny Fox took one look at Reddy 's wounds , and knew right away what had happened .
She made Reddy stretch himself out at full length and then she went to work on him , washing his wounds with the greatest care and binding them up .
She was very gentle , was old Granny Fox , as she touched the sore places , but all the time she was at work her tongue flew , and that was n't gentle at all .
Oh , my , no !
There was nothing gentle about that !
You see , old Granny Fox is wise and very , very sharp and shrewd .
Just as soon as she saw Reddy 's hurts , she knew that they were made by shot from a gun , and that meant that Reddy Fox had been careless or he never , never would have been where he was in danger of being shot .
`` I hope this will teach you a lesson ! ''
said Granny Fox .
`` What are your eyes and your ears and your nose for ?
To keep you out of just such trouble as this .
`` A little Fox must use his eyes Or get someday a sad surprise .
`` A little Fox must use his ears And know what makes each sound he hears .
`` A little Fox must use his nose And try the wind where'er he goes .
`` A little Fox must use all three To live to grow as old as me .
`` Now tell me all about it , Reddy Fox .
This is summer and men do n't hunt foxes now .
I do n't see how it happens that Farmer Brown 's boy was waiting for you with a gun . ''
So Reddy Fox told Granny Fox all about how he had run too near the old tree trunk behind which Farmer Brown 's boy had been hiding , but Reddy did n't tell how he had been trying to show off , or how in broad daylight he had stolen the pet chicken of Farmer Brown 's boy .
You may be sure he was very careful not to mention that .
And so old Granny Fox puckered up her brows and thought and thought , trying to find some good reason why Farmer Brown 's boy should have been hunting in the summertime .
`` Caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky the Crow .
The face of Granny Fox cleared .
`` Blacky the Crow has been stealing , and Farmer Brown 's boy was out after him when Reddy came along , '' said Granny Fox , talking out loud to herself .
Reddy Fox grew very red in the face , but he never said a word .
IX .
Peter Rabbit Hears the News Johnny Chuck came running up to the edge of the Old Briarpatch quite out of breath .
You see , he is so round and fat and roly-poly that to run makes him puff and blow .
Johnny Chuck 's eyes danced with excitement as he peered into the Old Briar-patch , trying to see Peter Rabbit .
`` Peter !
Peter Rabbit !
Oh , Peter ! ''
he called .
No one answered .
Johnny Chuck looked disappointed .
It was the middle of the morning , and he had thought that Peter would surely be at home then .
He would try once more .
`` Oh , you Peter Rabbit ! ''
he shouted in such a high-pitched voice that it was almost a squeal .
`` What you want ? ''
asked a sleepy voice from the middle of the Old Briar-patch .
Johnny Chuck 's face lighted up .
`` Come out here , Peter , where I can look at you , '' cried Johnny .
`` Go away , Johnny Chuck !
I 'm sleepy , '' said Peter Rabbit , and his voice sounded just a wee bit cross , for Peter had been out all night , a habit which Peter has .
`` I 've got some news for you , Peter , '' called Johnny Chuck eagerly .
`` How do you know it 's news to me ? ''
asked Peter , and Johnny noticed that his voice was n't quite so cross .
`` I 'm almost sure it is , for I 've just heard it myself , and I 've hurried right down here to tell you because I think you 'll want to know it , '' replied Johnny Chuck .
`` Pooh ! ''
said Peter Rabbit , `` it 's probably as old as the hills to me .
You folks who go to bed with the sun do n't hear the news until it 's old .
What is it ? ''
`` It 's about Reddy Fox , '' began Johnny Chuck , but Peter Rabbit interrupted him .
`` Shucks , Johnny Chuck !
You are slow !
Why , it was all over Green Meadows last night how Reddy Fox had been shot by Farmer Brown 's boy ! ''
jeered Peter Rabbit .
`` That 's no news .
And here you 've waked me up to tell me something I knew before you went to bed last night !
Serves Reddy Fox right .
Hope he 'll be lame for a week , '' added Peter Rabbit .
`` He ca n't walk at all ! ''
cried Johnny Chuck in triumph , sure now that Peter Rabbit had n't heard the news .
`` What 's that ? ''
demanded Peter , and Johnny Chuck could hear him begin to hop along one of his little private paths in the heart of the Old Briar-patch .
He knew now that Peter Rabbit 's curiosity was aroused , and he smiled to himself .
In a few minutes Peter thrust a sleepy-looking face out from the Old Briar-patch and grinned rather sheepishly .
`` What was that you were saying about Reddy Fox ? ''
he asked again .
`` I 've a good mind not to tell you , Mr. Know-it-all , '' exclaimed Johnny Chuck .
`` Oh , please , Johnny Chuck , '' pleaded Peter Rabbit .
Finally Johnny gave in .
`` I said that Reddy Fox ca n't walk .
Are n't you glad , Peter ? ''
`` How do you know ? ''
asked Peter , for Peter is very suspicious of Reddy Fox , and has to watch out for his tricks all the time .
`` Jimmy Skunk told me .
He was up by Reddy 's house early this morning and saw Reddy try to walk .
He tried and tried and could n't .
You wo n't have to watch out for Reddy Fox for some time , Peter .
Serves him right , does n't it ? ''
`` Let 's go up and see if it really is true ! ''
said Peter suddenly .
`` All right , '' said Johnny Chuck , and off they started .
X. Poor Reddy Fox Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck stole up the hill toward the home of Reddy Fox .
As they drew near , they crept from one bunch of grass to another and from bush to bush , stopping behind each to look and listen .
They were not taking any chances .
Johnny Chuck was not much afraid of Reddy Fox , for he had whipped him once , but he was afraid of old Granny Fox .
Peter Rabbit was afraid of both .
The nearer he got to the home of Reddy Fox , the more anxious and nervous he grew .
You see , Reddy Fox had played so many tricks to try and catch Peter that Peter was not quite sure that this was not another trick .
So he kept a sharp watch in every direction , ready to run at the least sign of danger .
When they had tiptoed and crawled to a point where they could see the doorstep of the Fox home , Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck lay down in a clump of bushes and watched .
Pretty soon they saw old Granny Fox come out .
She sniffed the wind and then she started off at a quick run down the Lone Little Path .
Johnny Chuck gave a sigh of relief , for he was n't afraid of Reddy and now he felt safe .
But Peter Rabbit was just as watchful as ever .
`` I 've got to see Reddy for myself before I 'll go a step nearer , '' he whispered .
Just then Johnny Chuck put a hand on his lips and pointed with the other hand .
There was Reddy Fox crawling out of his doorway into the sun .
Peter Rabbit leaned forward to see better .
Was Reddy Fox really so badly hurt , or was he only pretending ?
Reddy Fox crawled painfully out onto his doorstep .
He tried to stand and walk , but he could n't because he was too stiff and sore .
So he just crawled .
He did n't know that anyone was watching him , and with every movement he made a face .
That was because it hurt so .
Peter Rabbit , watching from the clump of bushes , knew then that Reddy was not pretending .
He knew that he had nothing , not the least little thing , to fear from Reddy Fox .
So Peter gave a whoop of joy and sprang out into view .
Reddy looked up and tried to grin , but made a face of pain instead .
You see , it hurt so to move .
`` I suppose you 're tickled to death to see me like this , '' he growled to Peter Rabbit .
Now Peter had every reason to be glad , for Reddy Fox had tried his best to catch Peter Rabbit to give to old Granny Fox for her dinner , and time and again Peter had just barely escaped .
So at first Peter Rabbit had whooped with joy .
But as he saw how very helpless Reddy really was and how much pain he felt , suddenly Peter Rabbit 's big , soft eyes filled with tears of pity .
He forgot all about the threats of Reddy Fox and how Reddy had tried to trick him .
He forgot all about how mean Reddy had been .
`` Poor Reddy Fox , '' said Peter Rabbit .
`` Poor Reddy Fox . ''
XI .
Granny Fox Returns Up over the hill trotted old Granny Fox .
She was on her way home with a tender young chicken for Reddy Fox .
Poor Reddy !
Of course , it was his own fault , for he had been showing off and he had been careless or he never would have gone so near to the old tree trunk behind which Farmer Brown 's boy was hiding .
But old Granny Fox did n't know this .
She never makes such mistakes herself .
Oh , my , no !
So now , as she came up over the hill to a place where she could see her home , she laid the chicken down and then she crept behind a little bush and looked all over the Green Meadows to see if the way was clear .
She knew that Bowser the Hound was chained up .
She had seen Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy hoeing in the cornfield , so she had nothing to fear from them .
Looking over to her doorstep , she saw Reddy Fox lying in the sun , and then she saw something else , something that made her eyes flash and her teeth come together with a snap .
It was Peter Rabbit sitting up very straight , not ten feet from Reddy Fox .
`` So that 's that young scamp of a Peter Rabbit whom Reddy was going to catch for me when I was sick and could n't !
I 'll just show Reddy Fox how easily it can be done , and he shall have tender young rabbit with his chicken ! ''
said Granny Fox to herself .
So first she studied and studied every clump of grass and every bush behind which she could creep .
She saw that she could get almost to where Peter Rabbit was sitting and never once show herself to him .
Then she looked this way and looked that way to make sure that no one was watching her .
No one did she see on the Green Meadows who was looking her way .
Then Granny Fox began to crawl from one clump of grass to another and from bush to bush .
Sometimes she wriggled along flat on her stomach .
Little by little she was drawing nearer and nearer to Peter Rabbit .
Now with all her smartness old Granny Fox had forgotten one thing .
Yes , Sir , she had forgotten one thing .
Never once had she thought to look up in the sky .
And there was Ol' Mistah Buzzard sailing round and round and looking down and seeing all that was going on below .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard is sharp .
He knew just what old Granny Fox was planning to do -- knew it as well as if he had read her thoughts .
His eyes twinkled .
`` Ah cert ` nly ca n't allow li'l ' Brer Rabbit to be hurt , Ah cert ` nly ca n't ! ''
muttered Ol' Mistah Buzzard , and chuckled .
Then he slanted his broad wings downward and without a sound slid down out of the sky till he was right behind Granny Fox .
`` Do yo ' always crawl home , Granny Fox ? ''
asked Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Granny Fox was so startled , for she had n't heard a sound , that she jumped almost out of her skin .
Of course Peter Rabbit saw her then , and was off like a shot .
Granny Fox showed all her teeth .
`` I wish you would mind your own business , Mistah Buzzard ! ''
she snarled .
`` Cert ` nly , cert ` nly , Ah sho ` ly will ! ''
replied Ol' Mistah Buzzard , and sailed up into the blue , blue sky .
XII .
The Lost Chicken When old Granny Fox had laid down the chicken she was bringing home to Reddy Fox to try to catch Peter Rabbit , she had meant to go right back and get it as soon as she had caught Peter .
Now she saw Peter going across the Green Meadows , lipperty-lipperty-lip , as fast as he could go .
She was so angry that she hopped up and down .
She tore up the grass and ground her long , white teeth .
She glared up at Ol' Mistah Buzzard , who had warned Peter Rabbit , but all she could do was to scold , and that did n't do her much good , for in a few minutes Ol' Mistah Buzzard was so far up in the blue , blue sky that he could n't hear a word she was saying .
My , my , but old Granny Fox certainly was angry !
If she had n't been so angry she might have seen Johnny Chuck lying as flat as he could make himself behind a big clump of grass .
Johnny Chuck was scared .
Yes , indeed , Johnny Chuck was dreadfully scared .
He had fought Reddy Fox and whipped him , but he knew that old Granny Fox would be too much for him .
So it was with great relief that Johnny Chuck saw her stop tearing up the grass and trot over to see how Reddy Fox was getting along .
Then Johnny Chuck crept along until he was far enough away to run .
How he did run !
He was so fat and roly-poly that he was all out of breath when he reached home , and so tired that he just dropped down on his doorstep and panted .
`` Serves me right for having so much curiosity , '' said Johnny Chuck to himself .
Reddy Fox looked up as old Granny Fox came hurrying home .
He was weak and very , very hungry .
But he felt sure that old Granny Fox would bring him something nice for his breakfast , and as soon as he heard her footsteps his mouth began to water .
`` Did you bring me something nice , Granny ? ''
asked Reddy Fox .
Now old Granny Fox had been so put out by the scare she had had and by her failure to catch Peter Rabbit that she had forgotten all about the chicken she had left up on the hill .
When Reddy spoke , she remembered it , and the thought of having to go way back after it did n't improve her temper a bit .
`` No ! ''
she snapped .
`` I have n't !
-- You do n't deserve any breakfast anyway .
If you had any gumption '' -- that 's the word Granny Fox used , gumption -- `` if you had any gumption at all , you would n't have gotten in trouble , and could get your own breakfast . ''
Reddy Fox did n't know what gumption meant , but he did know that he was very , very hungry , and do what he would , he could n't keep back a couple of big tears of disappointment .
Granny Fox saw them .
`` There , there , Reddy !
Do n't cry .
I 've got a fine fat chicken for you up on the hill , and I 'll run back and get it , '' said Granny Fox .
So off she started up the hill to the place where she had left the chicken when she started to try to catch Peter Rabbit .
When she got there , there was n't any chicken .
No , Sir , there was no chicken at all -- just a few feathers .
Granny Fox could hardly believe her own eyes .
She looked this way and she looked that way , but there was no chicken , just a few feathers .
Old Granny Fox flew into a greater rage than before .
XIII .
Granny Fox Calls Jimmy Skunk Names Granny Fox could n't believe her own eyes .
No , Sir , she could n't believe her own eyes , and she rubbed them two or three times to make sure that she was seeing right .
That chicken certainly had disappeared , and left no trace of where it had gone .
It was very queer .
Old Granny Fox sat down to think who would dare steal anything from her .
Then she walked in a big circle with her nose to the ground , sniffing and sniffing .
What was she doing that for ?
Why , to see if she could find the tracks of anyone who might have stolen her chicken .
`` Aha ! ''
exclaimed old Granny Fox , starting to run along the top of the hill , her nose to the ground .
`` Aha !
I 'll catch him this time ! ''
In a few minutes she began to run more slowly , and every two or three steps she would look ahead .
Suddenly her eyes snapped , and she began to creep almost flat on her stomach , just as she had crept for Peter Rabbit .
But it was n't Peter Rabbit this time .
It was -- who do you think ?
Jimmy Skunk !
Yes , Sir , it was Jimmy Skunk .
He was slowly ambling along , for Jimmy Skunk never hurries .
Every big stick or stone that he could move , he would pull over or look under , for Jimmy Skunk was hunting for beetles .
Old Granny Fox watched him .
`` He must have a tremendous appetite to be hunting for beetles after eating my chicken ! ''
muttered she .
Then she jumped out in front of Jimmy Skunk , her eyes snapping , her teeth showing , and the hair on her back standing on end so as to make her look very fierce .
But all the time old Granny Fox took the greatest care not to get too near to Jimmy Skunk .
`` Where 's my chicken ? ''
snarled old Granny Fox , and she looked very , very fierce .
Jimmy Skunk looked up as if very much surprised .
`` Hello , Granny Fox ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Have you lost a chicken ? ''
`` You 've stolen it !
You 're a thief , Jimmy Skunk ! ''
snapped Granny Fox .
`` Words can never make black white ; Before you speak be sure you 're right , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` I 'm not a thief . ''
`` You are ! ''
cried Granny working herself into a great rage .
`` I 'm not ! ''
`` You are ! ''
All the time Jimmy Skunk was chuckling to himself , and the more he chuckled the angrier grew old Granny Fox .
And all the time Jimmy Skunk kept moving toward old Granny Fox and Granny Fox kept backing away , for , like all the other little meadow and forest people , she has very great respect for Jimmy Skunk 's little bag of scent .
Now , backing off that way , she could n't see where she was going , and the first thing she knew she had backed into a bramble bush .
It tore her skirts and scratched her legs .
`` Ooch ! ''
cried old Granny Fox .
`` Ha !
ha !
ha ! ''
laughed Jimmy Skunk .
`` That 's what you get for calling me names . ''
XIV .
Granny Fox Finds What Became of the Chicken Old Granny Fox was in a terrible temper .
Dear , dear , it certainly was a dreadful temper !
Jimmy Skunk laughed at her , and that made it worse .
When he saw this , Jimmy Skunk just rolled over and over on the ground and shouted , he was so tickled .
Of course , it was n't the least bit nice of Jimmy Skunk , but you know that Granny Fox had been calling Jimmy a thief .
Then Jimmy does n't like Granny Fox anyway , nor do any of the other little meadow and forest people , for most of them are very much afraid of her .
When old Granny Fox finally got out of the bramble bush , she did n't stop to say anything more to Jimmy Skunk , but hurried away , muttering and grumbling and grinding her teeth .
Old Granny Fox was n't pleasant to meet just then , and when Bobby Coon saw her coming , he just thought it best to get out of her way , so he climbed a tree .
It was n't that Bobby Coon was afraid of old Granny Fox .
Bless you , no !
Bobby Coon is n't a bit afraid of her .
It was because he had a full stomach and was feeling too good-natured and lazy to quarrel .
`` Good morning , Granny Fox .
I hope you are feeling well this morning , '' said Bobby Coon , as old Granny Fox came trotting under the tree he was sitting in .
Granny Fox looked up and glared at him with yellow eyes .
`` It is n't a good morning and I 'm not feeling fine ! ''
she snapped .
`` My goodness , how you have torn your skirts ! ''
exclaimed Bobby Coon .
Old Granny Fox started to say something unpleasant .
Then she changed her mind and instead she sat down and told Bobby Coon all her troubles .
As she talked , Bobby Coon kept ducking his head behind a branch of the tree to hide a smile .
Finally Granny Fox noticed it .
`` What do you keep ducking your head for , Bobby Coon ? ''
she asked suspiciously .
`` I 'm just looking to see if I can see any feathers from that chicken , '' replied Bobby Coon gravely , though his eyes were twinkling with mischief .
`` Well , do you ? ''
demanded old Granny Fox .
And just then Bobby Coon did .
They were not on the ground , however , but floating in the air .
Bobby Coon leaned out to see where they came from , and Granny Fox turned to look , too .
What do you think they saw ?
Why , sitting on a tall , dead tree was Mr. Goshawk , just then swallowing the last of Granny 's chicken .
`` Thief !
thief !
robber !
robber ! ''
shrieked old Granny Fox .
But Mr. Goshawk said nothing , just winked at Bobby Coon , puffed out his feathers , and settled himself for a comfortable nap .
XV .
Reddy Fox Has a Visitor Hardly was old Granny Fox out of sight on her way to hunt for the chicken she had left on the hill , when Unc ' Billy Possum came strolling along the Lone Little Path .
He was humming to himself , for he had just had a good breakfast .
One of the Merry Little Breezes spied him and hurried to meet him and tell him about how Reddy Fox had been shot .
Unc ' Billy listened , and the grin with which he had greeted the Merry Little Breeze grew into a broad smile .
`` Are yo ' all sure about that ? ''
he asked .
The Merry Little Breeze was sure .
Unc ' Billy Possum stopped for a few minutes and considered .
`` Serves that no ` count Reddy Fox right , '' chuckled Unc ' Billy .
`` He done spoil mah hunting at Farmer Brown 's , he raised such a fuss among the hens up there .
'T is n't safe to go there any mo ' !
No , Suh , 't is n't safe , and it wo n't be safe for a right smart while .
Did yo ' say that Granny Fox is home ? ''
The Merry Little Breeze had n't said anything about Granny Fox , but now remembered that she had gone up the hill .
`` Ah believe Ah will just tote my sympathy over to Reddy Fox , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum , as he started in the direction of Reddy Fox 's house .
But he made sure that old Granny Fox was not at home before he showed himself .
Reddy Fox lay on his doorstep .
He was sick and sore and stiff .
Indeed , he was so stiff he could n't walk at all .
And he was weak -- weak and hungry , dreadfully hungry .
When he heard footsteps , he thought old Granny Fox was bringing him the chicken after which she had gone .
He felt too ill even to turn his head .
`` Did you get the chicken , Granny ? ''
he asked weakly .
No one answered .
`` I say , did you get the chicken , Granny ? ''
Reddy 's voice sounded a little sharp and cross as he asked this time .
Still there was no reply , and Reddy began to be a little bit suspicious .
He turned over and raised his head to look .
Instead of old Granny Fox , there was Unc ' Billy Possum grinning at him .
`` Smarty , Smarty is a thief !
Smarty , Smarty came to grief !
Tried to show off just for fun And ran too near a loaded gun .
`` Yo ' all certainly has got just what yo ' deserve , and Ah 'm glad of it !
Ah 'm glad of it , Suh ! ''
said Unc ' Billy Possum severely .
An angry light came into the eyes of Reddy Fox and made them an ugly yellow for just a minute .
But he felt too sick to quarrel .
Unc ' Billy Possum saw this .
He saw how Reddy was really suffering , and down deep in his heart Unc ' Billy was truly sorry for him .
But he did n't let Reddy know it .
No , indeed !
He just pretended to be tickled to death to see Reddy Fox so helpless .
He did n't dare stay long , for fear Granny Fox would return .
So , after saying a few more things to make Reddy feel uncomfortable , Unc ' Billy started off up the Lone Little Path toward the Green Forest .
`` Too bad !
Too bad ! ''
he muttered to himself .
`` If ol' Granny Fox is n't smart enough to get Reddy enough to eat , Ah 'll have to see what we-alls can do .
Ah cert ` nly will . ''
XVI .
Unc ' Billy Possum Visits the Smiling Pool Joe Otter and Billy Mink were sitting on the Big Rock in the Smiling Pool .
Because they had nothing else to do , they were planning mischief .
Jerry Muskrat was busy filling his new house with food for the winter .
He was too busy to get into mischief .
Suddenly Billy Mink put a finger on his lips as a warning to Little Joe Otter to keep perfectly still .
Billy 's sharp eyes had seen something moving over in the bulrushes .
Together he and Little Joe Otter watched , ready to dive into the Smiling Pool at the first sign of danger .
In a few minutes the rushes parted and a sharp little old face peered out .
Little Joe Otter and Billy Mink each sighed with relief , and their eyes began to dance .
`` Hi , Unc ' Billy Possum ! ''
shouted Billy Mink .
A grin crept over the sharp little old face peering out from the bulrushes .
`` Hi , yo ` self ! ''
he shouted , for it really was Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` What are you doing over here ? ''
called Little Joe Otter .
`` Just a-looking round , '' replied Unc ' Billy Possum , his eyes twinkling .
`` Have you heard about Reddy Fox ? ''
shouted Billy Mink .
`` Ah done jes ' come from his home , '' replied Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` How is he ? ''
asked Little Joe Otter .
`` Po ` ly , he sho ` ly is po ` ly , '' replied Unc ' Billy Possum , shaking his head soberly .
Then Unc ' Billy told Billy Mink and Little Joe Otter how Reddy Fox was so stiff and sore and sick that he could n't get anything to eat for himself , and how old Granny Fox had lost a chicken which she had caught for him .
`` Serves him right ! ''
exclaimed Billy Mink , who has never forgotten how Reddy Fox fooled him and caught the most fish once upon a time .
Unc ' Billy nodded his head .
`` Yo ' are right .
Yo ' cert ` nly are right .
Yes , Suh , Ah reckons yo ' are right .
Was yo ' ever hungry , Billy Mink -- real hungry ? ''
asked Unc ' Billy Possum .
Billy Mink thought of the time when he went without his dinner because Mr. Night Heron had gobbled it up , when Billy had left it in a temper .
He nodded his head .
`` Ah was just a-wondering , '' continued Une ' Billy Possum , `` how it would seem to be right smart powerful hungry and not be able to hunt fo ' anything to eat . ''
For a few minutes no one said a word .
Then Billy Mink stood up and stretched .
`` Good-by , '' said Billy Mink .
`` Where are you going so suddenly ? ''
demanded Little Joe Otter .
`` I 'm going to catch a fish and take it up to Reddy Fox , if you must know ! ''
snapped Billy Mink .
`` Good ! ''
cried Little Joe Otter .
`` You need n't think that you can have all the fun to yourself either , Billy Mink .
I 'm going with you . ''
There was a splash in the Smiling Pool , and Unc ' Billy Possum was left looking out on nothing but the Smiling Pool and the Big Rock .
He smiled to himself as he turned away .
`` Ah reckon Ah 'll sho ' have to do my share , too , '' said he .
And so it happened that when old Granny Fox finally reached home with nothing but a little wood mouse for Reddy , she found him taking a nap , his stomach as full as it could be .
And just a little way off were two fish tails and the feathers of a little duck .
XVII .
Farmer Brown 's Boy Is Determined Farmer Brown 's boy had made up his mind .
When he shut his teeth with a click and drew his lips together into a thin , straight line , those who knew him were sure that Farmer Brown 's boy had made up his mind .
That is just what he had done now .
He was cleaning his gun , and as he worked he was thinking of his pet chicken and of all the other chickens that Reddy Fox had taken .
`` I 'm going to get that fox if it takes all summer ! ''
exclaimed Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` I ought to have gotten him the other day when I had a shot at him .
Next time well , we 'll see , Mr. Fox , what will happen next time . ''
Now someone heard Farmer Brown 's boy , heard everything he said , though Farmer Brown 's boy did n't know it .
It was Unc ' Billy Possum , who was hiding in the very pile of wood on which Farmer Brown 's boy was sitting .
Unc ' Billy pricked up his ears .
He did n't like the tone of voice in which Farmer Brown 's boy spoke .
He thought of Reddy Fox still so stiff and sore and lame that he could hardly walk , all from the shot which Farmer Brown 's boy thought had missed .
`` There is n't gwine to be any next time .
No , Suh , there is n't gwine to be any next time .
Ah sho ` ly doan love Reddy Fox , but Ah ca n't nohow let him be shot again .
Ah cert ` nly ca n't ! ''
muttered Unc ' Billy Possum to himself .
Of course , Farmer Brown 's boy did n't hear him .
He did n't hear him and he did n't see him when Unc ' Billy Possum crept out of the back side of the woodpile and scurried under the henhouse .
He was too intent on his plan to catch Reddy Fox .
`` I 'm just going to hunt over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest until I get that fox ! ''
said Farmer Brown 's boy , and as he said it he looked very fierce , as if he really meant it .
`` I 'm not going to have my chickens stolen any more !
No , Sir-e-e !
That fox has got a home somewhere on the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest , and I 'm going to find it .
Then watch out , Mr. Fox ! ''
Farmer Brown 's boy whistled for Bowser the Hound and started for the Green Forest .
Unc ' Billy Possum poked his sharp little old face out from under the henhouse and watched them go .
Usually Unc ' Billy is grinning , but now there was n't any grin , not the least sign of one .
Instead Unc ' Billy Possum looked worried .
`` There goes that boy with a gun , and nobody knows what 'll happen when it goes off .
If he ca n't find Reddy Fox , just as likely as not he 'll point it at somebody else just fo ' fun .
Ah hope he doan meet up with mah ol' woman or any of mah li'l ' pickaninnies .
Ah 'm plumb afraid of a boy with a gun , Ah am .
` Pears like he doan have any sense .
Ah reckon Ah better be moving along right smart and tell mah family to stay right close in the ol' hollow tree , '' muttered Unc ' Billy Possum , slipping out from his hiding place .
Then Unc ' Billy began to run as fast as he could toward the Green Forest .
XVIII .
The Hunt for Reddy Fox `` Trouble , trouble , trouble , I feel it in the air ; Trouble , trouble , trouble , it 's round me everywhere . ''
Old Granny Fox muttered this over and over , as she kept walking around uneasily and sniffing the air .
`` I do n't see any trouble and I do n't feel any trouble in the air .
It 's all in the sore places where I was shot , '' said Reddy Fox , who was stretched out on the doorstep of their home .
`` That 's because you have n't got any sense .
When you do get some and learn to look where you are going , you wo n't get shot from behind old tree trunks and you will be able to feel trouble when it is near , without waiting for it to show itself .
Now I feel trouble .
You go down into the house and stay there ! ''
Granny Fox stopped to test the air with her nose , just as she had been testing it for the last ten minutes .
`` I do n't want to go in , '' whined Reddy Fox .
`` It 's nice and warm out here , and I feel a lot better than when I am curled up way down there in the dark . ''
Old Granny Fox turned , and her eyes blazed as she looked at Reddy Fox .
She did n't say a word .
She did n't have to .
Reddy just crawled into his house , muttering to himself .
Granny stuck her head in at the door .
`` Do n't you come out until I come back , '' she ordered .
Then she added : `` Farmer Brown 's boy is coming with his gun . ''
Reddy Fox shivered when he heard that .
He did n't believe Granny Fox .
He thought she was saying that just to scare him and make him stay inside .
But he shivered just the same .
You see , he knew now what it meant to be shot , for he was still too stiff and sore to run , all because he had gone too near Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun .
But old Granny Fox had not been fooling when she told Reddy Fox that Farmer Brown 's boy was coming with a gun .
It was true .
He was coming down the Lone Little Path , and ahead of him was trotting Bowser the Hound .
How did old Granny Fox know it ?
She just felt it !
She did n't hear them , she did n't see them , and she did n't smell them ; she just felt that they were coming .
So as soon as she saw that Reddy Fox had obeyed her , she was off like a little red flash .
`` It wo n't do to let them find our home , '' said Granny to herself , as she disappeared in the Green Forest .
First she hurried to a little point on the hill where she could look down the Lone Little Path .
Just as she expected , she saw Farmer Brown 's boy , and ahead of him , sniffing at every bush and all along the Lone Little Path , was Bowser the Hound .
Old Granny Fox waited to see no more .
She ran as fast as she could in a big circle which brought her out on the Lone Little Path below Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound , but where they could n't see her , because of a turn in the Lone Little Path .
She trotted down the Lone Little Path a very little way and then turned into the woods and hurried back up the hill , where she sat down and waited .
In a few minutes she heard Bowser 's great voice .
He had smelled her track in the Lone Little Path and was following it .
Old Granny Fox grinned .
You see , she was planning to lead them far , far away from the home where Reddy Fox was hiding , for it would not do to have them find it .
And Farmer Brown 's boy also grinned , as he heard the voice of Bowser the Hound .
`` I 'll hunt that fox until I get him , '' he said .
You see , he did n't know anything about old Granny Fox ; he thought Bowser was following Reddy Fox .
XIX Unc ' Billy Possum Gives Warning `` What 's the matter with you , Unc ' Billy ?
You look as if you had lost your last friend . ''
It was Jimmy Skunk who spoke .
Unc ' Billy Possum stopped short .
He had been hurrying so fast that he had n't seen Jimmy Skunk at all .
`` Matter enuff , Suh !
Matter enuff ! ''
said Unc ' Billy Possum , when he could get his breath .
`` Do you hear that noise ? ''
`` Sure , I hear that noise .
That 's only Bowser the Hound chasing old Granny Fox .
When she gets tired she 'll lose him , '' replied Jimmy Skunk .
`` What are you worrying about Bowser the Hound for ? ''
`` Bowser the Hound will have to be smarter than he is now befo ' he can worry me , Ah reckon , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum scornfully .
`` It is n't Bowser the Hound ; it 's Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun ! ''
Then Unc ' Billy told Jimmy Skunk how he had been hiding in the woodpile at Farmer Brown 's and had heard Farmer Brown 's boy say that he was going to hunt over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest until he got Reddy Fox .
`` What of it ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk .
`` If he gets Reddy Fox , so much the better .
Reddy always did make trouble for other people .
I do n't see what you 're worrying about Reddy Fox for .
He 's big enough to take care of himself . ''
`` Yo ' cert ` nly are plumb slow in your wits this morning , Jimmy Skunk , yo ' cert ` nly are plumb slow !
Supposing yo ' should meet up with Farmer Brown 's boy with that gun in his hands and supposing he had grown tired of watching fo ' Reddy Fox .
That gun might go off , Jimmy Skunk ; it might go off when it was pointing right straight at yo ' ! ''
said Unc ' Billy Possum .
Jimmy Skunk looked serious .
`` That 's so , Unc ' Billy , that 's so ! ''
he said .
`` Boys with guns do get dreadfully careless , dreadfully careless .
They do n't seem to think anything about the feelings of those likely to get hurt when the gun goes off .
What was you thinking of doing , Unc ' Billy ? ''
`` Just passing the word along so everybody in the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest will keep out of the way of Farmer Brown 's boy , '' replied Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Good idea , Unc ' Billy !
I 'll help you , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
So Unc ' Billy Possum went one way , and Jimmy Skunk went another way .
And everyone they told hurried to tell someone else .
Happy Jack Squirrel told Chatterer the Red Squirrel ; Chatterer told Striped Chipmunk , and Striped Chipmunk told Danny Meadow Mouse .
Danny Meadow Mouse told Johnny Chuck ; Johnny Chuck told Peter Rabbit ; Peter Rabbit told Jumper the Hare ; Jumper the Hare told Prickly Porky ; Prickly Porky told Bobby Coon ; Bobby Coon told Billy Mink ; Billy Mink told Little Joe Otter ; Little Joe Otter told Jerry Muskrat , and Jerry Muskrat told Grandfather Frog .
And everybody hastened to hide from Farmer Brown 's boy and his terrible gun .
By and by Farmer Brown 's boy noticed how still it was in the Green Forest .
Nowhere did he see or hear a bird .
Nowhere could he catch a glimpse of anybody who wore fur .
`` That fox must have scared away all the other animals and driven away all the birds .
I 'll get him !
See if I do n't ! ''
muttered Farmer Brown 's boy , and never once guessed that they were hiding from him .
XX .
Old Granny Fox Makes a Mistake Old Granny Fox was running through the overgrown old pasture , way up back of Farmer Brown 's .
She was cross and tired and hot , for it was a very warm day .
Behind her came Bowser the Hound , his nose in Granny 's tracks , and making a great noise with his big voice .
Granny Fox was cross because she was tired .
She had n't done much running lately .
She did n't mind running when the weather was cold , but now -- `` Oh dear , it is hot ! ''
sighed old Granny Fox , as she stopped a minute to rest .
Now old Granny Fox is very , very smart and very , very wise .
She knows all the tricks with which foxes fool those who try to catch them .
She knew that she could fool Bowser the Hound and puzzle him so that he would n't be able to follow her track at all .
But she was n't ready to do that yet .
No , indeed !
Old Granny Fox was taking great care to see that her tracks were easy to follow .
She wanted Bowser the Hound to follow them , although it made her tired and hot and cross .
Why did she ?
Well , you see , she was trying to lead him , and with him Farmer Brown 's boy , far , far away from the home where Reddy Fox was nursing the wounds that he had received when Farmer Brown 's boy had shot at him a few days before .
`` Bow , wow , wow ! ''
roared Bowser the Hound , following every twist and turn which Granny Fox made , just as she wanted him to .
Back and forth across the old pasture and way up among the rocks on the edge of the mountain Granny Fox led Bowser the Hound .
It was a long , long , long way from the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
Granny Fox had made it a long way purposely .
She was willing to be tired herself if she could also tire Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy .
She wanted to tire them so that when she finally puzzled and fooled them and left them there , they would be too tired to go back to the Green Meadows .
By and by Granny Fox came to a hole in the ground , an old house that had once belonged to her grandfather .
Now this old house had a back door hidden close beside the hollow trunk of a fallen tree .
Old Granny Fox just ran through the house , out the back door , through the hollow tree , and then jumped into a little brook where there was hardly more than enough water to wet her feet .
Walking in the water , she left no scent in her tracks .
Bowser the Hound came roaring up to the front door of the old house .
Granny 's tracks led right inside , and Bowser grew so excited that he made a tremendous noise .
At last he had found where Granny Fox lived ; at least he thought he had .
He was sure that she was inside , for there were her fresh tracks going inside and none coming out .
Bowser the Hound never once thought of looking for a back door .
If he had , he would n't have been any the wiser , because , you know , old Granny Fox had slipped away through the hollow tree trunk .
Granny Fox grinned as she listened to the terrible fuss Bowser was making .
Then , when she had rested a little , she stole up on the hill where she could look down and see the entrance to the old deserted house .
She watched Bowser digging and barking .
After a while a worried look crept into the face of old Granny Fox .
`` Where 's Farmer Brown 's boy ?
I thought surely he would follow Bowser the Hound , '' she muttered .
XXI .
Reddy Fox Disobeys When old Granny Fox had sent Reddy Fox into the house and told him to stay there until she returned home , he had not wanted to mind , but he knew that Granny Fox meant just what she said , and so he had crawled slowly down the long hall to the bedroom , way underground .
Pretty soon Reddy Fox heard a voice .
It was very faint , for you know Reddy was in his bedroom way underground , but he knew it .
He pricked up his ears and listened .
It was the voice of Bowser the Hound , and Reddy knew by the sound that Bowser was chasing Granny Fox .
Reddy grinned .
He was n't at all worried about Granny Fox , not the least little bit .
He knew how smart she was and that whenever she wanted to , she could get rid of Bowser the Hound .
Then a sudden thought popped into Reddy 's head , and he grew sober .
`` Granny did feel trouble coming , just as she said , '' he thought .
Then Reddy Fox curled himself up and tried to sleep .
He intended to mind and not put his little black nose outside until old Granny Fox returned .
But somehow Reddy could n't get to sleep .
His bedroom was small , and he was so stiff and sore that he could not get comfortable .
He twisted and turned and fidgeted .
The more he fidgeted , the more uncomfortable he grew .
He thought of the warm sunshine outside and how comfortable he would be , stretched out full length on the doorstep .
It would take the soreness out of his legs .
Something must have happened to Granny to keep her so long .
If she had known that she was going to be gone such a long time , she would n't have told him to stay until she came back , thought Reddy .
By and by Reddy Fox crept a little way up the long , dark hall .
He could just see the sunlight on the doorstep .
Pretty soon he went a little bit nearer .
He was n't going to disobey old Granny Fox .
Oh , no !
No , indeed !
She had told him to stay in the house until she returned .
She had n't said that he could n't look out !
Reddy crawled a little nearer to the open door and the sunlight .
`` Granny Fox is getting old and timid .
Just as if my eyes are n't as sharp as hers !
I 'd like to see Farmer Brown 's boy get near me when I am really on the watch , '' said Reddy Fox to himself .
And then he crept a little nearer to the open door .
How bright and warm and pleasant it did look outside !
Reddy just knew that he would feel ever and ever so much better if he could stretch out on the doorstep .
He could hear Jenny Wren fussing and scolding at someone or something , and he wondered what it could be .
He crept just a wee bit nearer .
He could hear Bowser 's voice , but it was so faint that he had to prick up his sharp little ears and listen with all his might to hear it at all .
`` Granny 's led them way off on the mountain .
Good old Granny ! ''
thought Reddy Fox .
Then he crawled right up to the very doorway .
He could still hear Jenny Wren scolding and fussing .
`` What does ail her ?
`` If it 's hot or if it 's cold , Jenny Wren will always scold .
From morn till night the whole day long Her limber tongue is going strong .
`` I 'm going to find out what it means , '' said Reddy , talking to himself .
Reddy Fox poked his head out and -- looked straight into the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy and the muzzle of that dreadful gun !
XXII .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard 's Keen Sight Old Granny Fox had thought that when she fooled Bowser the Hound up in the old pasture on the edge of the mountain she could take her time going home .
She was tired and hot , and she had planned to pick out the shadiest paths going back .
She had thought that Farmer Brown 's boy would soon join Bowser the Hound , when Bowser made such a fuss about having found the old house into which Granny Fox had run .
But Farmer Brown 's boy had not yet appeared , and Granny Fox was getting worried .
Could it be that he had not followed Bowser the Hound , after all ?
Granny Fox went out on a high point and looked , but she could see nothing of Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun .
Just then Ol' Mistah Buzzard came sailing down out of the blue , blue sky and settled himself on a tall , dead tree .
Now Granny Fox had n't forgotten how Ol' Mistah Buzzard had warned Peter Rabbit just as she was about to pounce on him , but she suddenly thought that Ol' Mistah Buzzard might be of use to her .
So old Granny Fox smoothed out her skirts and walked over to the foot of the tree where Ol' Mistah Buzzard sat .
`` How do you do today , neighbor Buzzard ? ''
inquired Granny Fox , smiling up at Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Ah 'm so as to be up and about , thank yo ' , '' replied Ol' Mistah Buzzard , spreading his wings out so that air could blow under them .
`` My ! ''
exclaimed old Granny Fox , `` what splendid great wings you have , Mistah Buzzard !
It must be grand to be able to fly .
I suppose you can see a great deal from way up there in the blue , blue sky , Mistah Buzzard . ''
Ol' Mistah Buzzard felt flattered .
`` Yes , '' said he , `` Ah can see all that 's going on on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest . ''
`` Oh , Mistah Buzzard , you do n't really mean that ! ''
exclaimed old Granny Fox , just as if she wanted to believe it , but could n't .
`` Yes , Ah can ! ''
replied Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Really , Mistah Buzzard ?
Really ?
Oh , I ca n't believe that your eyes are so sharp as all that !
Now I know where Bowser the Hound is and where Farmer Brown 's boy is , but I do n't believe you can see them , '' said Granny Fox .
Ol' Mistah Buzzard never said a word but spread his broad wings and in a few minutes he had sailed up , up , up until he looked like just a tiny speck to old Granny Fox .
Now old Granny Fox had not told the truth when she said she knew where Farmer Brown 's boy was .
She thought she would trick Ol' Mistah Buzzard into telling her .
In a few minutes down came Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
`` Bowser the Hound is up in the old back pasture , '' said he .
`` Right ! ''
cried old Granny Fox , clapping her hands .
`` And where is Farmer Brown 's boy ? ''
`` Farmer Brown 's boy is ... '' Ol' Mistah Buzzard paused .
`` Where ?
Where ? ''
asked Granny Fox , so eagerly that Ol' Mistah Buzzard looked at her sharply .
`` Yo ' said you knew , so what 's the use of telling yo ' ? ''
said Ol' Mistah Buzzard .
Then he added : `` But if Ah was yo ' , Ah cert ` nly would get home right smart soon . ''
`` Why ?
Do , do tell me what you saw , Mistah Buzzard ! ''
begged Granny Fox .
But Ol' Mistah Buzzard would n't say another word , so old Granny Fox started for home as fast as she could run .
`` Oh dear , I do hope Reddy Fox minded me and stayed in the house , '' she muttered .
XXII Granny Fox Has a Terrible Scare Old Granny Fox felt her heart sink way down to her toes , for she felt sure Ol' Mistah Buzzard had seen Farmer Brown 's boy and his gun over near the house where Reddy Fox was nursing his wounds , or he would n't have advised her to hurry home .
She was already very tired and hot from the long run to lead Bowser the Hound away from the Green Meadows .
She had thought to walk home along shady paths and cool off , but now she must run faster than ever , for she must know if Farmer Brown 's boy had found her house .
`` It 's lucky I told Reddy Fox to go inside and not come out till I returned ; it 's very lucky I did that , '' thought Granny Fox as she ran .
Presently she heard voices singing .
They seemed to be in the treetops over her head .
`` Happily we dance and play All the livelong sunny day !
Happily we run and race And win or lose with smiling face ! ''
Granny Fox knew the voices , and she looked up .
Just as she expected , she saw the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind playing among the leaves .
Just then one of them looked down and saw her .
`` There 's old Granny Fox !
Just see how hot and tired she looks .
Let 's go down and cool her off ! ''
shouted the Merry Little Breeze .
In a flash they were all down out of the treetops and dancing around old Granny Fox , cooling her off .
Of course , Granny Fox kept right on running .
She was too worried not to .
But the Merry Little Breezes kept right beside her , and it was not nearly as hard running now as it had been .
`` Have you seen Farmer Brown 's boy ? ''
panted Granny Fox .
`` Oh , yes !
We saw him just a little while ago over near your house , Granny Fox .
We pulled his hat off , just to hear him scold , '' shouted the Merry Little Breezes , and then they tickled and laughed as if they had had a good time with Farmer Brown 's boy .
But old Granny Fox did n't laugh -- oh , my , no , indeed !
Her heart went lower still , and she did her best to run faster .
Pretty soon she came out on the top of the hill where she could look , and then it seemed as if her heart came right up in her mouth and stopped beating .
Her eyes popped almost out of her head .
There was Farmer Brown 's boy standing right in front of the door of her home .
And while she was watching , what should Reddy Fox do but stick his head out the door .
Old Granny Fox saw the gun of Farmer Brown 's boy pointed right at Reddy and she clapped both hands over her eyes to shut out the dreadful sight .
Then she waited for the bang of the gun .
It did n't come .
Then Granny peeped through her fingers .
Farmer Brown 's boy was still there , but Reddy Fox had disappeared inside the house .
Granny Fox sighed in relief .
It had been a terrible scare , the worst she could remember .
XXIV .
Granny and Reddy Have To Move `` I do n't want to move , '' whined Reddy Fox .
`` I 'm too sore to walk . ''
Old Granny Fox gave him a shove .
`` You go along and do as I say ! ''
she snapped .
`` If you had minded me , we would n't have to move .
It 's all your own fault .
The wonder is that you were n't killed when you poked your head out right in front of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Now that he knows where we live , he will give us no peace .
Move along lively now !
This is the best home I have ever had , and now I 've got to leave it .
Oh dear !
Oh dear ! ''
Reddy Fox hobbled along up the long hall and out the front door .
He was walking on three legs , and at every step he made a face because , you know , it hurt so to walk .
The little stars , looking down from the sky , saw Reddy Fox limp out the door of the house he had lived in so long , and right behind him came old Granny Fox .
Granny sighed and wiped away a tear , as she said good-by to her old home .
Reddy Fox was thinking too much of his own troubles to notice how badly Granny Fox was feeling .
Every few steps he had to sit down and rest because it hurt him so to walk .
`` I do n't see the use of moving tonight , anyway .
It would be a lot easier and pleasanter when the sun is shining .
This night air makes me so stiff that I know I never will get over it , '' grumbled Reddy Fox .
Old Granny Fox listened to him for a while , and then she lost patience .
Yes , Sir , Granny Fox lost patience .
She boxed Reddy Fox first on one ear and then on the other .
Reddy began to snivel .
`` Stop that ! ''
said Granny Fox sharply .
`` Do you want all the neighbors to know that we have got to move ?
They 'll find it out soon enough .
Now come along without any more fuss .
If you do n't , I 'll just go off and leave you to shift for yourself .
