Does he fly , then ? ''
Mowgli sat with his elbows on his knees , looking out across the valley at the daylight .
Somewhere down in the woods below a bird was trying over in a husky , reedy voice the first few notes of his spring song .
It was no more than a shadow of the liquid , tumbling call he would be pouring later , but Bagheera heard it .
`` I said the Time of New Talk is near , '' growled the panther , switching his tail .
`` I hear , '' Mowgli answered .
`` Bagheera , why dost thou shake all over ?
The sun is warm . ''
`` That is Ferao , the scarlet woodpecker , '' said Bagheera .
`` HE has not forgotten .
Now I , too , must remember my song , '' and he began purring and crooning to himself , harking back dissatisfied again and again .
`` There is no game afoot , '' said Mowgli .
`` Little Brother , are BOTH thine ears stopped ?
That is no killing-word , but my song that I make ready against the need . ''
`` I had forgotten .
I shall know when the Time of New Talk is here , because then thou and the others all run away and leave me alone . ''
Mowgli spoke rather savagely .
`` But , indeed , Little Brother , '' Bagheera began , `` we do not always -- '' `` I say ye do , '' said Mowgli , shooting out his forefinger angrily .
`` Ye DO run away , and I , who am the Master of the Jungle , must needs walk alone .
How was it last season , when I would gather sugar-cane from the fields of a Man-Pack ?
I sent a runner -- I sent thee !
-- to Hathi , bidding him to come upon such a night and pluck the sweet grass for me with his trunk . ''
`` He came only two nights later , '' said Bagheera , cowering a little ; `` and of that long , sweet grass that pleased thee so he gathered more than any Man-cub could eat in all the nights of the Rains .
That was no fault of mine . ''
`` He did not come upon the night when I sent him the word .
No , he was trumpeting and running and roaring through the valleys in the moonlight .
His trail was like the trail of three elephants , for he would not hide among the trees .
He danced in the moonlight before the houses of the Man-Pack .
I saw him , and yet he would not come to me ; and I am the Master of the Jungle ! ''
`` It was the Time of New Talk , '' said the panther , always very humble .
`` Perhaps , Little Brother , thou didst not that time call him by a Master-word ?
Listen to Ferao , and be glad ! ''
Mowgli 's bad temper seemed to have boiled itself away .
He lay back with his head on his arms , his eyes shut .
`` I do not know -- nor do I care , '' he said sleepily .
`` Let us sleep , Bagheera .
My stomach is heavy in me .
Make me a rest for my head . ''
The panther lay down again with a sigh , because he could hear Ferao practising and repractising his song against the Springtime of New Talk , as they say .
In an Indian Jungle the seasons slide one into the other almost without division .
There seem to be only two -- the wet and the dry ; but if you look closely below the torrents of rain and the clouds of char and dust you will find all four going round in their regular ring .
Spring is the most wonderful , because she has not to cover a clean , bare field with new leaves and flowers , but to drive before her and to put away the hanging-on , over-surviving raffle of half-green things which the gentle winter has suffered to live , and to make the partly-dressed stale earth feel new and young once more .
And this she does so well that there is no spring in the world like the Jungle spring .
There is one day when all things are tired , and the very smells , as they drift on the heavy air , are old and used .
One can not explain this , but it feels so .
Then there is another day -- to the eye nothing whatever has changed -- when all the smells are new and delightful , and the whiskers of the Jungle People quiver to their roots , and the winter hair comes away from their sides in long , draggled locks .
Then , perhaps , a little rain falls , and all the trees and the bushes and the bamboos and the mosses and the juicy-leaved plants wake with a noise of growing that you can almost hear , and under this noise runs , day and night , a deep hum .
THAT is the noise of the spring -- a vibrating boom which is neither bees , nor falling water , nor the wind in tree-tops , but the purring of the warm , happy world .
Up to this year Mowgli had always delighted in the turn of the seasons .
It was he who generally saw the first Eye-of-the-Spring deep down among the grasses , and the first bank of spring clouds , which are like nothing else in the Jungle .
His voice could be heard in all sorts of wet , star-lighted , blossoming places , helping the big frogs through their choruses , or mocking the little upside-down owls that hoot through the white nights .
Like all his people , spring was the season he chose for his flittings -- moving , for the mere joy of rushing through the warm air , thirty , forty , or fifty miles between twilight and the morning star , and coming back panting and laughing and wreathed with strange flowers .
The Four did not follow him on these wild ringings of the Jungle , but went off to sing songs with other wolves .
The Jungle People are very busy in the spring , and Mowgli could hear them grunting and screaming and whistling according to their kind .
Their voices then are different from their voices at other times of the year , and that is one of the reasons why spring in the Jungle is called the Time of New Talk .
But that spring , as he told Bagheera , his stomach was changed in him .
Ever since the bamboo shoots turned spotty-brown he had been looking forward to the morning when the smells should change .
But when the morning came , and Mor the Peacock , blazing in bronze and blue and gold , cried it aloud all along the misty woods , and Mowgli opened his mouth to send on the cry , the words choked between his teeth , and a feeling came over him that began at his toes and ended in his hair -- a feeling of pure unhappiness , so that he looked himself over to be sure that he had not trod on a thorn .
Mor cried the new smells , the other birds took it over , and from the rocks by the Waingunga he heard Bagheera 's hoarse scream -- something between the scream of an eagle and the neighing of a horse .
There was a yelling and scattering of Bandar-log in the new-budding branches above , and there stood Mowgli , his chest , filled to answer Mor , sinking in little gasps as the breath was driven out of it by this unhappiness .
He stared all round him , but he could see no more than the mocking Bandar-log scudding through the trees , and Mor , his tail spread in full splendour , dancing on the slopes below .
`` The smells have changed , '' screamed Mor .
`` Good hunting , Little Brother !
Where is thy answer ? ''
`` Little Brother , good hunting ! ''
whistled Chil the Kite and his mate , swooping down together .
The two baffed under Mowgli 's nose so close that a pinch of downy white feathers brushed away .
A light spring rain -- elephant-rain they call it -- drove across the Jungle in a belt half a mile wide , left the new leaves wet and nodding behind , and died out in a double rainbow and a light roll of thunder .
The spring hum broke out for a minute , and was silent , but all the Jungle Folk seemed to be giving tongue at once .
All except Mowgli .
`` I have eaten good food , '' he said to himself .
`` I have drunk good water .
Nor does my throat burn and grow small , as it did when I bit the blue-spotted root that Oo the Turtle said was clean food .
But my stomach is heavy , and I have given very bad talk to Bagheera and others , people of the Jungle and my people .
Now , too , I am hot and now I am cold , and now I am neither hot nor cold , but angry with that which I can not see .
Huhu !
It is time to make a running !
To-night I will cross the ranges ; yes , I will make a spring running to the Marshes of the North , and back again .
I have hunted too easily too long .
The Four shall come with me , for they grow as fat as white grubs . ''
He called , but never one of the Four answered .
They were far beyond earshot , singing over the spring songs -- the Moon and Sambhur Songs -- with the wolves of the pack ; for in the spring-time the Jungle People make very little difference between the day and the night .
He gave the sharp , barking note , but his only answer was the mocking maiou of the little spotted tree-cat winding in and out among the branches for early birds ' nests .
At this he shook all over with rage , and half drew his knife .
Then he became very haughty , though there was no one to see him , and stalked severely down the hillside , chin up and eyebrows down .
But never a single one of his people asked him a question , for they were all too busy with their own affairs .
`` Yes , '' said Mowgli to himself , though in his heart he knew that he had no reason .
`` Let the Red Dhole come from the Dekkan , or the Red Flower dance among the bamboos , and all the Jungle runs whining to Mowgli , calling him great elephant-names .
But now , because Eye-of-the-Spring is red , and Mor , forsooth , must show his naked legs in some spring dance , the Jungle goes mad as Tabaqui ... By the Bull that bought me !
am I the Master of the Jungle , or am I not ?
Be silent !
What do ye here ? ''
A couple of young wolves of the Pack were cantering down a path , looking for open ground in which to fight .
-LRB- You will remember that the Law of the Jungle forbids fighting where the Pack can see . -RRB-
Their neck-bristles were as stiff as wire , and they bayed furiously , crouching for the first grapple .
Mowgli leaped forward , caught one outstretched throat in either hand , expecting to fling the creatures backward as he had often done in games or Pack hunts .
But he had never before interfered with a spring fight .
The two leaped forward and dashed him aside , and without word to waste rolled over and over close locked .
Mowgli was on his feet almost before he fell , his knife and his white teeth were bared , and at that minute he would have killed both for no reason but that they were fighting when he wished them to be quiet , although every wolf has full right under the Law to fight .
He danced round them with lowered shoulders and quivering hand , ready to send in a double blow when the first flurry of the scuffle should be over ; but while he waited the strength seemed to ebb from his body , the knife-point lowered , and he sheathed the knife and watched .
`` I have surely eaten poison , '' he sighed at last .
`` Since I broke up the Council with the Red Flower -- since I killed Shere Khan -- none of the Pack could fling me aside .
And these be only tail-wolves in the Pack , little hunters !
My strength is gone from me , and presently I shall die .
Oh , Mowgli , why dost thou not kill them both ? ''
The fight went on till one wolf ran away , and Mowgli was left alone on the torn and bloody ground , looking now at his knife , and now at his legs and arms , while the feeling of unhappiness he had never known before covered him as water covers a log .
He killed early that evening and ate but little , so as to be in good fettle for his spring running , and he ate alone because all the Jungle People were away singing or fighting .
It was a perfect white night , as they call it .
All green things seemed to have made a month 's growth since the morning .
The branch that was yellow-leaved the day before dripped sap when Mowgli broke it .
The mosses curled deep and warm over his feet , the young grass had no cutting edges , and all the voices of the Jungle boomed like one deep harp-string touched by the moon -- the Moon of New Talk , who splashed her light full on rock and pool , slipped it between trunk and creeper , and sifted it through a million leaves .
Forgetting his unhappiness , Mowgli sang aloud with pure delight as he settled into his stride .
It was more like flying than anything else , for he had chosen the long downward slope that leads to the Northern Marshes through the heart of the main Jungle , where the springy ground deadened the fall of his feet .
A man-taught man would have picked his way with many stumbles through the cheating moonlight , but Mowgli 's muscles , trained by years of experience , bore him up as though he were a feather .
When a rotten log or a hidden stone turned under his foot he saved himself , never checking his pace , without effort and without thought .
When he tired of ground-going he threw up his hands monkey-fashion to the nearest creeper , and seemed to float rather than to climb up into the thin branches , whence he would follow a tree-road till his mood changed , and he shot downward in a long , leafy curve to the levels again .
There were still , hot hollows surrounded by wet rocks where he could hardly breathe for the heavy scents of the night flowers and the bloom along the creeper buds ; dark avenues where the moonlight lay in belts as regular as checkered marbles in a church aisle ; thickets where the wet young growth stood breast-high about him and threw its arms round his waist ; and hilltops crowned with broken rock , where he leaped from stone to stone above the lairs of the frightened little foxes .
He would hear , very faint and far off , the chug-drug of a boar sharpening his tusks on a bole ; and would come across the great gray brute all alone , scribing and rending the bark of a tall tree , his mouth dripping with foam , and his eyes blazing like fire .
Or he would turn aside to the sound of clashing horns and hissing grunts , and dash past a couple of furious sambhur , staggering to and fro with lowered heads , striped with blood that showed black in the moonlight .
Or at some rushing ford he would hear Jacala the Crocodile bellowing like a bull , or disturb a twined knot of the Poison People , but before they could strike he would be away and across the glistening shingle , and deep in the Jungle again .
So he ran , sometimes shouting , sometimes singing to himself , the happiest thing in all the Jungle that night , till the smell of the flowers warned him that he was near the marshes , and those lay far beyond his farthest hunting-grounds .
Here , again , a man-trained man would have sunk overhead in three strides , but Mowgli 's feet had eyes in them , and they passed him from tussock to tussock and clump to quaking clump without asking help from the eyes in his head .
He ran out to the middle of the swamp , disturbing the duck as he ran , and sat down on a moss-coated tree-trunk lapped in the black water .
The marsh was awake all round him , for in the spring the Bird People sleep very lightly , and companies of them were coming or going the night through .
But no one took any notice of Mowgli sitting among the tall reeds humming songs without words , and looking at the soles of his hard brown feet in case of neglected thorns .
All his unhappiness seemed to have been left behind in his own Jungle , and he was just beginning a full-throat song when it came back again -- ten times worse than before .
This time Mowgli was frightened .
`` It is here also ! ''
he said half aloud .
`` It has followed me , '' and he looked over his shoulder to see whether the It were not standing behind him .
`` There is no one here . ''
The night noises of the marsh went on , but never a bird or beast spoke to him , and the new feeling of misery grew .
`` I have surely eaten poison , '' he said in an awe-stricken voice .
`` It must be that carelessly I have eaten poison , and my strength is going from me .
I was afraid -- and yet it was not I that was afraid -- Mowgli was afraid when the two wolves fought .
Akela , or even Phao , would have silenced them ; yet Mowgli was afraid .
That is true sign I have eaten poison ... But what do they care in the Jungle ?
They sing and howl and fight , and run in companies under the moon , and I -- Hai-mai !
-- I am dying in the marshes , of that poison which I have eaten . ''
He was so sorry for himself that he nearly wept .
`` And after , '' he went on , `` they will find me lying in the black water .
Nay , I will go back to my own Jungle , and I will die upon the Council Rock , and Bagheera , whom I love , if he is not screaming in the valley -- Bagheera , perhaps , may watch by what is left for a little , lest Chil use me as he used Akela . ''
A large , warm tear splashed down on his knee , and , miserable as he was , Mowgli felt happy that he was so miserable , if you can understand that upside-down sort of happiness .
`` As Chil the Kite used Akela , '' he repeated , `` on the night I saved the Pack from Red Dog . ''
He was quiet for a little , thinking of the last words of the Lone Wolf , which you , of course , remember .
`` Now Akela said to me many foolish things before he died , for when we die our stomachs change .
He said ... None the less , I AM of the Jungle ! ''
In his excitement , as he remembered the fight on Waingunga bank , he shouted the last words aloud , and a wild buffalo-cow among the reeds sprang to her knees , snorting , `` Man ! ''
`` Uhh ! ''
said Mysa the Wild Buffalo -LRB- Mowgli could hear him turn in his wallow -RRB- , `` THAT is no man .
It is only the hairless wolf of the Seeonee Pack .
On such nights runs he to and fro . ''
`` Uhh ! ''
said the cow , dropping her head again to graze , `` I thought it was Man . ''
`` I say no .
Oh , Mowgli , is it danger ? ''
lowed Mysa .
`` Oh , Mowgli , is it danger ? ''
the boy called back mockingly .
`` That is all Mysa thinks for : Is it danger ?
But for Mowgli , who goes to and fro in the Jungle by night , watching , what do ye care ? ''
`` How loud he cries ! ''
said the cow .
`` Thus do they cry , '' Mysa answered contemptuously , `` who , having torn up the grass , know not how to eat it . ''
`` For less than this , '' Mowgli groaned to himself , `` for less than this even last Rains I had pricked Mysa out of his wallow , and ridden him through the swamp on a rush halter . ''
He stretched a hand to break one of the feathery reeds , but drew it back with a sigh .
Mysa went on steadily chewing the cud , and the long grass ripped where the cow grazed .
`` I will not die HERE , '' he said angrily .
`` Mysa , who is of one blood with Jacala and the pig , would see me .
Let us go beyond the swamp and see what comes .
Never have I run such a spring running -- hot and cold together .
Up , Mowgli ! ''
He could not resist the temptation of stealing across the reeds to Mysa and pricking him with the point of his knife .
The great dripping bull broke out of his wallow like a shell exploding , while Mowgli laughed till he sat down .
`` Say now that the hairless wolf of the Seeonee Pack once herded thee , Mysa , '' he called .
`` Wolf !
THOU ? ''
the bull snorted , stamping in the mud .
`` All the jungle knows thou wast a herder of tame cattle -- such a man 's brat as shouts in the dust by the crops yonder .
THOU of the Jungle !
What hunter would have crawled like a snake among the leeches , and for a muddy jest -- a jackal 's jest -- have shamed me before my cow ?
Come to firm ground , and I will -- I will ... '' Mysa frothed at the mouth , for Mysa has nearly the worst temper of any one in the Jungle .
Mowgli watched him puff and blow with eyes that never changed .
When he could make himself heard through the pattering mud , he said : `` What Man-Pack lair here by the marshes , Mysa ?
This is new Jungle to me . ''
`` Go north , then , '' roared the angry bull , for Mowgli had pricked him rather sharply .
`` It was a naked cow-herd 's jest .
Go and tell them at the village at the foot of the marsh . ''
`` The Man-Pack do not love jungle-tales , nor do I think , Mysa , that a scratch more or less on thy hide is any matter for a council .
But I will go and look at this village .
Yes , I will go .
Softly now .
It is not every night that the Master of the Jungle comes to herd thee . ''
He stepped out to the shivering ground on the edge of the marsh , well knowing that Mysa would never charge over it and laughed , as he ran , to think of the bull 's anger .
`` My strength is not altogether gone , '' he said .
`` It may be that the poison is not to the bone .
There is a star sitting low yonder . ''
He looked at it between his half-shut hands .
`` By the Bull that bought me , it is the Red Flower -- the Red Flower that I lay beside before -- before I came even to the first Seeonee Pack !
Now that I have seen , I will finish the running . ''
The marsh ended in a broad plain where a light twinkled .
It was a long time since Mowgli had concerned himself with the doings of men , but this night the glimmer of the Red Flower drew him forward .
`` I will look , '' said he , `` as I did in the old days , and I will see how far the Man-Pack has changed . ''
Forgetting that he was no longer in his own Jungle , where he could do what he pleased , he trod carelessly through the dew-loaded grasses till he came to the hut where the light stood .
Three or four yelping dogs gave tongue , for he was on the outskirts of a village .
`` Ho ! ''
said Mowgli , sitting down noiselessly , after sending back a deep wolf-growl that silenced the curs .
`` What comes will come .
Mowgli , what hast thou to do any more with the lairs of the Man-Pack ? ''
He rubbed his mouth , remembering where a stone had struck it years ago when the other Man-Pack had cast him out .
The door of the hut opened , and a woman stood peering out into the darkness .
A child cried , and the woman said over her shoulder , `` Sleep .
It was but a jackal that waked the dogs .
In a little time morning comes . ''
Mowgli in the grass began to shake as though he had fever .
He knew that voice well , but to make sure he cried softly , surprised to find how man 's talk came back , `` Messua !
O Messua ! ''
`` Who calls ? ''
said the woman , a quiver in her voice .
`` Hast thou forgotten ? ''
said Mowgli .
His throat was dry as he spoke .
`` If it be THOU , what name did I give thee ?
Say ! ''
She had half shut the door , and her hand was clutching at her breast .
`` Nathoo !
Ohe , Nathoo ! ''
said Mowgli , for , as you remember , that was the name Messua gave him when he first came to the Man-Pack .
`` Come , my son , '' she called , and Mowgli stepped into the light , and looked full at Messua , the woman who had been good to him , and whose life he had saved from the Man-Pack so long before .
She was older , and her hair was gray , but her eyes and her voice had not changed .
Woman-like , she expected to find Mowgli where she had left him , and her eyes travelled upward in a puzzled way from his chest to his head , that touched the top of the door .
`` My son , '' she stammered ; and then , sinking to his feet : `` But it is no longer my son .
It is a Godling of the Woods !
Ahai ! ''
As he stood in the red light of the oil-lamp , strong , tall , and beautiful , his long black hair sweeping over his shoulders , the knife swinging at his neck , and his head crowned with a wreath of white jasmine , he might easily have been mistaken for some wild god of a jungle legend .
The child half asleep on a cot sprang up and shrieked aloud with terror .
Messua turned to soothe him , while Mowgli stood still , looking in at the water-jars and the cooking-pots , the grain-bin , and all the other human belongings that he found himself remembering so well .
`` What wilt thou eat or drink ? ''
Messua murmured .
`` This is all thine .
We owe our lives to thee .
But art thou him I called Nathoo , or a Godling , indeed ? ''
`` I am Nathoo , '' said Mowgli , `` I am very far from my own place .
I saw this light , and came hither .
I did not know thou wast here . ''
`` After we came to Khanhiwara , '' Messua said timidly , `` the English would have helped us against those villagers that sought to burn us .
Rememberest thou ? ''
`` Indeed , I have not forgotten . ''
`` But when the English Law was made ready , we went to the village of those evil people , and it was no more to be found . ''
`` That also I remember , '' said Mowgli , with a quiver of his nostril .
`` My man , therefore , took service in the fields , and at last -- for , indeed , he was a strong man -- we held a little land here .
It is not so rich as the old village , but we do not need much -- we two . ''
`` Where is he the man that dug in the dirt when he was afraid on that night ? ''
`` He is dead -- a year . ''
`` And he ? ''
Mowgli pointed to the child .
`` My son that was born two Rains ago .
If thou art a Godling , give him the Favour of the Jungle , that he may be safe among thy -- thy people , as we were safe on that night . ''
She lifted up the child , who , forgetting his fright , reached out to play with the knife that hung on Mowgli 's chest , and Mowgli put the little fingers aside very carefully .
`` And if thou art Nathoo whom the tiger carried away , '' Messua went on , choking , `` he is then thy younger brother .
Give him an elder brother 's blessing . ''
`` Hai-mai !
What do I know of the thing called a blessing ?
I am neither a Godling nor his brother , and -- O mother , mother , my heart is heavy in me . ''
He shivered as he set down the child .
`` Like enough , '' said Messua , bustling among the cooking-pots .
`` This comes of running about the marshes by night .
Beyond question , the fever had soaked thee to the marrow . ''
Mowgli smiled a little at the idea of anything in the Jungle hurting him .
`` I will make a fire , and thou shalt drink warm milk .
Put away the jasmine wreath : the smell is heavy in so small a place . ''
Mowgli sat down , muttering , with his face in his hands .
All manner of strange feelings that he had never felt before were running over him , exactly as though he had been poisoned , and he felt dizzy and a little sick .
He drank the warm milk in long gulps , Messua patting him on the shoulder from time to time , not quite sure whether he were her son Nathoo of the long ago days , or some wonderful Jungle being , but glad to feel that he was at least flesh and blood .
`` Son , '' she said at last , -- her eyes were full of pride , -- `` have any told thee that thou art beautiful beyond all men ? ''
`` Hah ? ''
said Mowgli , for naturally he had never heard anything of the kind .
Messua laughed softly and happily .
The look in his face was enough for her .
`` I am the first , then ?
It is right , though it comes seldom , that a mother should tell her son these good things .
Thou art very beautiful .
Never have I looked upon such a man . ''
Mowgli twisted his head and tried to see over his own hard shoulder , and Messua laughed again so long that Mowgli , not knowing why , was forced to laugh with her , and the child ran from one to the other , laughing too .
`` Nay , thou must not mock thy brother , '' said Messua , catching him to her breast .
`` When thou art one-half as fair we will marry thee to the youngest daughter of a king , and thou shalt ride great elephants . ''
Mowgli could not understand one word in three of the talk here ; the warm milk was taking effect on him after his long run , so he curled up and in a minute was deep asleep , and Messua put the hair back from his eyes , threw a cloth over him , and was happy .
Jungle-fashion , he slept out the rest of that night and all the next day ; for his instincts , which never wholly slept , warned him there was nothing to fear .
He waked at last with a bound that shook the hut , for the cloth over his face made him dream of traps ; and there he stood , his hand on his knife , the sleep all heavy in his rolling eyes , ready for any fight .
Messua laughed , and set the evening meal before him .
There were only a few coarse cakes baked over the smoky fire , some rice , and a lump of sour preserved tamarinds -- just enough to go on with till he could get to his evening kill .
The smell of the dew in the marshes made him hungry and restless .
He wanted to finish his spring running , but the child insisted on sitting in his arms , and Messua would have it that his long , blue-black hair must be combed out .
So she sang , as she combed , foolish little baby-songs , now calling Mowgli her son , and now begging him to give some of his jungle power to the child .
The hut door was closed , but Mowgli heard a sound he knew well , and saw Messua 's jaw drop with horror as a great gray paw came under the bottom of the door , and Gray Brother outside whined a muffled and penitent whine of anxiety and fear .
`` Out and wait !
Ye would not come when I called , '' said Mowgli in Jungle-talk , without turning his head , and the great gray paw disappeared .
`` Do not -- do not bring thy -- thy servants with thee , '' said Messua .
`` I -- we have always lived at peace with the Jungle . ''
`` It is peace , '' said Mowgli , rising .
`` Think of that night on the road to Khanhiwara .
There were scores of such folk before thee and behind thee .
But I see that even in springtime the Jungle People do not always forget .
Mother , I go . ''
Messua drew aside humbly -- he was indeed a wood-god , she thought ; but as his hand was on the door the mother in her made her throw her arms round Mowgli 's neck again and again .
`` Come back ! ''
she whispered .
`` Son or no son , come back , for I love thee -- Look , he too grieves . ''
The child was crying because the man with the shiny knife was going away .
`` Come back again , '' Messua repeated .
`` By night or by day this door is never shut to thee . ''
Mowgli 's throat worked as though the cords in it were being pulled , and his voice seemed to be dragged from it as he answered , `` I will surely come back . ''
`` And now , '' he said , as he put by the head of the fawning wolf on the threshold , `` I have a little cry against thee , Gray Brother .
Why came ye not all four when I called so long ago ? ''
`` So long ago ?
It was but last night .
I -- we -- were singing in the Jungle the new songs , for this is the Time of New Talk .
Rememberest thou ? ''
`` Truly , truly . ''
`` And as soon as the songs were sung , '' Gray Brother went on earnestly , `` I followed thy trail .
I ran from all the others and followed hot-foot .
But , O Little Brother , what hast THOU done , eating and sleeping with the Man-Pack ? ''
`` If ye had come when I called , this had never been , '' said Mowgli , running much faster .
`` And now what is to be ? ''
said Gray Brother .
Mowgli was going to answer when a girl in a white cloth came down some path that led from the outskirts of the village .
Gray Brother dropped out of sight at once , and Mowgli backed noiselessly into a field of high-springing crops .
He could almost have touched her with his hand when the warm , green stalks closed before his face and he disappeared like a ghost .
The girl screamed , for she thought she had seen a spirit , and then she gave a deep sigh .
Mowgli parted the stalks with his hands and watched her till she was out of sight .
`` And now I do not know , '' he said , sighing in his turn .
`` WHY did ye not come when I called ? ''
`` We follow thee -- we follow thee , '' Gray Brother mumbled , licking at Mowgli 's heel .
`` We follow thee always , except in the Time of the New Talk . ''
`` And would ye follow me to the Man-Pack ? ''
Mowgli whispered .
`` Did I not follow thee on the night our old Pack cast thee out ?
Who waked thee lying among the crops ? ''
`` Ay , but again ? ''
`` Have I not followed thee to-night ? ''
`` Ay , but again and again , and it may be again , Gray Brother ? ''
Gray Brother was silent .
When he spoke he growled to himself , `` The Black One spoke truth . ''
`` And he said ? ''
`` Man goes to Man at the last .
Raksha , our mother , said -- '' `` So also said Akela on the night of Red Dog , '' Mowgli muttered .
`` So also says Kaa , who is wiser than us all . ''
`` What dost thou say , Gray Brother ? ''
`` They cast thee out once , with bad talk .
They cut thy mouth with stones .
They sent Buldeo to slay thee .
They would have thrown thee into the Red Flower .
Thou , and not I , hast said that they are evil and senseless .
Thou , and not I -- I follow my own people -- didst let in the Jungle upon them .
Thou , and not I , didst make song against them more bitter even than our song against Red Dog . ''
`` I ask thee what THOU sayest ? ''
They were talking as they ran .
Gray Brother cantered on a while without replying , and then he said , -- between bound and bound as it were , -- `` Man-cub -- Master of the Jungle -- Son of Raksha , Lair-brother to me -- though I forget for a little while in the spring , thy trail is my trail , thy lair is my lair , thy kill is my kill , and thy death-fight is my death-fight .
I speak for the Three .
But what wilt thou say to the Jungle ? ''
`` That is well thought .
Between the sight and the kill it is not good to wait .
Go before and cry them all to the Council Rock , and I will tell them what is in my stomach .
But they may not come -- in the Time of New Talk they may forget me . ''
`` Hast thou , then , forgotten nothing ? ''
snapped Gray Brother over his shoulder , as he laid himself down to gallop , and Mowgli followed , thinking .
At any other season the news would have called all the Jungle together with bristling necks , but now they were busy hunting and fighting and killing and singing .
From one to another Gray Brother ran , crying , `` The Master of the Jungle goes back to Man !
Come to the Council Rock . ''
And the happy , eager People only answered , `` He will return in the summer heats .
The Rains will drive him to lair .
Run and sing with us , Gray Brother . ''
`` But the Master of the Jungle goes back to Man , '' Gray Brother would repeat .
`` Eee -- Yoawa ?
Is the Time of New Talk any less sweet for that ? ''
they would reply .
So when Mowgli , heavy-hearted , came up through the well-remembered rocks to the place where he had been brought into the Council , he found only the Four , Baloo , who was nearly blind with age , and the heavy , cold-blooded Kaa coiled around Akela 's empty seat .
`` Thy trail ends here , then , Manling ? ''
said Kaa , as Mowgli threw himself down , his face in his hands .
`` Cry thy cry .
We be of one blood , thou and I -- man and snake together . ''
`` Why did I not die under Red Dog ? ''
the boy moaned .
`` My strength is gone from me , and it is not any poison .
By night and by day I hear a double step upon my trail .
When I turn my head it is as though one had hidden himself from me that instant .
I go to look behind the trees and he is not there .
I call and none cry again ; but it is as though one listened and kept back the answer .
I lie down , but I do not rest .
I run the spring running , but I am not made still .
I bathe , but I am not made cool .
The kill sickens me , but I have no heart to fight except I kill .
The Red Flower is in my body , my bones are water -- and -- I know not what I know . ''
`` What need of talk ? ''
said Baloo slowly , turning his head to where Mowgli lay .
`` Akela by the river said it , that Mowgli should drive Mowgli back to the Man-Pack .
I said it .
But who listens now to Baloo ?
Bagheera -- where is Bagheera this night ?
-- he knows also .
It is the Law . ''
`` When we met at Cold Lairs , Manling , I knew it , '' said Kaa , turning a little in his mighty coils .
`` Man goes to Man at the last , though the Jungle does not cast him out . ''
The Four looked at one another and at Mowgli , puzzled but obedient .
`` The Jungle does not cast me out , then ? ''
Mowgli stammered .
Gray Brother and the Three growled furiously , beginning , `` So long as we live none shall dare -- '' But Baloo checked them .
`` I taught thee the Law .
It is for me to speak , '' he said ; `` and , though I can not now see the rocks before me , I see far .
Little Frog , take thine own trail ; make thy lair with thine own blood and pack and people ; but when there is need of foot or tooth or eye , or a word carried swiftly by night , remember , Master of the Jungle , the Jungle is thine at call . ''
`` The Middle Jungle is thine also , '' said Kaa .
`` I speak for no small people . ''
`` Hai-mai , my brothers , '' cried Mowgli , throwing up his arms with a sob .
`` I know not what I know !
I would not go ; but I am drawn by both feet .
How shall I leave these nights ? ''
`` Nay , look up , Little Brother , '' Baloo repeated .
`` There is no shame in this hunting .
When the honey is eaten we leave the empty hive . ''
`` Having cast the skin , '' said Kaa , `` we may not creep into it afresh .
It is the Law . ''
`` Listen , dearest of all to me , '' said Baloo .
There is neither word nor will here to hold thee back .
Look up !
Who may question the Master of the Jungle ?
I saw thee playing among the white pebbles yonder when thou wast a little frog ; and Bagheera , that bought thee for the price of a young bull newly killed , saw thee also .
Of that Looking Over we two only remain ; for Raksha , thy lair-mother , is dead with thy lair-father ; the old Wolf-Pack is long since dead ; thou knowest whither Shere Khan went , and Akela died among the dholes , where , but for thy wisdom and strength , the second Seeonee Pack would also have died .
There remains nothing but old bones .
It is no longer the Man-cub that asks leave of his Pack , but the Master of the Jungle that changes his trail .
Who shall question Man in his ways ? ''
`` But Bagheera and the Bull that bought me , '' said Mowgli .
`` I would not -- '' His words were cut short by a roar and a crash in the thicket below , and Bagheera , light , strong , and terrible as always , stood before him .
`` Therefore , '' he said , stretching out a dripping right paw , `` I did not come .
It was a long hunt , but he lies dead in the bushes now -- a bull in his second year -- the Bull that frees thee , Little Brother .
All debts are paid now .
For the rest , my word is Baloo 's word . ''
He licked Mowgli 's foot .
`` Remember , Bagheera loved thee , '' he cried , and bounded away .
At the foot of the hill he cried again long and loud , `` Good hunting on a new trail , Master of the Jungle !
Remember , Bagheera loved thee . ''
`` Thou hast heard , '' said Baloo .
`` There is no more .
Go now ; but first come to me .
O wise Little Frog , come to me ! ''
`` It is hard to cast the skin , '' said Kaa as Mowgli sobbed and sobbed , with his head on the blind bear 's side and his arms round his neck , while Baloo tried feebly to lick his feet .
`` The stars are thin , '' said Gray Brother , snuffing at the dawn wind .
`` Where shall we lair to-day ?
for from now , we follow new trails . ''
***** And this is the last of the Mowgli stories .
THE OUTSONG -LSB- This is the song that Mowgli heard behind him in the Jungle till he came to Messua 's door again . -RSB-
Baloo For the sake of him who showed One wise Frog the Jungle-Road , Keep the Law the Man-Pack make -- For thy blind old Baloo 's sake !
Clean or tainted , hot or stale , Hold it as it were the Trail , Through the day and through the night , Questing neither left nor right .
For the sake of him who loves Thee beyond all else that moves , When thy Pack would make thee pain , Say : `` Tabaqui sings again . ''
When thy Pack would work thee ill , Say : `` Shere Khan is yet to kill . ''
When the knife is drawn to slay , Keep the Law and go thy way .
-LRB- Root and honey , palm and spathe , Guard a cub from harm and scathe ! -RRB-
Wood and Water , Wind and Tree , Jungle-Favour go with thee !
Kaa Anger is the egg of Fear -- Only lidless eyes are clear .
Cobra-poison none may leech .
Even so with Cobra-speech .
Open talk shall call to thee Strength , whose mate is Courtesy .
Send no lunge beyond thy length ; Lend no rotten bough thy strength .
Gauge thy gape with buck or goat , Lest thine eye should choke thy throat , After gorging , wouldst thou sleep ?
Look thy den is hid and deep , Lest a wrong , by thee forgot , Draw thy killer to the spot .
East and West and North and South , Wash thy hide and close thy mouth .
-LRB- Pit and rift and blue pool-brim , Middle-Jungle follow him ! -RRB-
Wood and Water , Wind and Tree , Jungle-Favour go with thee !
Bagheera In the cage my life began ; Well I know the worth of Man .
By the Broken Lock that freed -- Man-cub , ` ware the Man-cub 's breed !
Scenting-dew or starlight pale , Choose no tangled tree-cat trail .
Pack or council , hunt or den , Cry no truce with Jackal-Men .
Feed them silence when they say : `` Come with us an easy way . ''
Feed them silence when they seek Help of thine to hurt the weak .
Make no banaar 's boast of skill ; Hold thy peace above the kill .
Let nor call nor song nor sign Turn thee from thy hunting-line .
-LRB- Morning mist or twilight clear , Serve him , Wardens of the Deer ! -RRB-
Wood and Water , Wind and Tree , Jungle-Favour go with thee !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Blacky_the_Crow.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Blacky The Crow Makes A Discovery Blacky the Crow is always watching for things not intended for his sharp eyes .
The result is that he gets into no end of trouble which he could avoid .
In this respect he is just like his cousin , Sammy Jay .
Between them they see a great deal with which they have no business and which it would be better for them not to see .
Now Blacky the Crow finds it no easy matter to pick up a living when snow covers the Green Meadows and the Green Forest , and ice binds the Big River and the Smiling Pool .
He has to use his sharp eyes for all they are worth in order to find enough to fill his stomach , and he will eat anything in the way of food that he can swallow .
Often he travels long distances looking for food , but at night he always comes back to the same place in the Green Forest , to sleep in company with others of his family .
Blacky dearly loves company , particularly at night , and about the time jolly , round , red Mr. Sun is beginning to think about his bed behind the Purple Hills , you will find Blacky heading for a certain part of the Green Forest where he knows he will have neighbors of his own kind .
Peter Rabbit says that it is because Blacky 's conscience troubles him so that he does n't dare sleep alone , but Happy Jack Squirrel says that Blacky has n't any conscience .
You can believe just which you please , though I suspect that neither of them really knows .
As I have said , Blacky is quite a traveler at this time of year , and sometimes his search for food takes him to out-of-the-way places .
One day toward the very last of winter , the notion entered his black head that he would have a look in a certain lonesome corner of the Green Forest where once upon a time Redtail the Hawk had lived .
Blacky knew well enough that Redtail was n't there now ; he had gone south in the fell and would n't be back until he was sure that Mistress Spring had arrived on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
Like the black imp he is , Blacky flew over the tree-tops , his sharp eyes watching for something interesting below .
Presently he saw ahead of him the old nest of Red-tail .
He knew all about that nest .
He had visited it before when Red-tail was away .
Still it might be worth another visit .
You never can tell what you may find in old houses .
Now , of course , Blacky knew perfectly well that Redtail was miles and miles , hundreds of miles away , and so there was nothing to fear from him .
But Blacky learned ever so long ago that there is nothing like making sure that there is no danger .
So , instead of flying straight to that old nest , he first flew over the tree so that he could look down into it .
Right away he saw something that made him gasp and blink his eyes .
It was quite large and white , and it looked -- it looked very much indeed like an egg !
Do you wonder that Blacky gasped and blinked ?
Here was snow on the ground , and Rough Brother North Wind and Jack Frost had given no hint that they were even thinking of going back to the Far North .
The idea of any one laying an egg at this time of year !
Blacky flew over to a tall pine-tree to think it over .
`` Must be it was a little lump of snow , '' thought he .
`` Yet if ever I saw an egg , that looked like one .
Jumping grasshoppers , how good an egg would taste right now ! ''
You know Blacky has a weakness for eggs .
The more he thought about it , the hungrier he grew .
Several times he almost made up his mind to fly straight over there and make sure , but he did n't quite dare .
If it were an egg , it must belong to somebody , and perhaps it would be best to find out who .
Suddenly Blacky shook himself .
`` I must be dreaming , '' said he .
`` There could n't , there just could n't be an egg at this time of year , or in that old tumble-down nest !
I 'll just fly away and forget it . ''
So he flew away , but he could n't forget it .
He kept thinking of it all day , and when he went to sleep that night he made up his mind to have another look at that old nest .
CHAPTER II : Blacky Makes Sure `` As true as ever I 've cawed a caw That was a new-laid egg I saw . ''
`` What are you talking about ? ''
demanded Sammy Jay , coming up just in time to hear the last part of what Blacky the Crow was mumbling to himself .
`` Oh nothing , Cousin , nothing at all , '' replied Blacky .
`` I was just talking foolishness to myself . ''
Sammy looked at him sharply .
`` You are n't feeling sick , are you , Cousin Blacky ? ''
he asked .
`` Must be something the matter with you when you begin talking about new-laid eggs , when everything 's covered with snow and ice .
Foolishness is no name for it .
Whoever heard of such a thing as a new-laid egg this time of year . ''
`` Nobody , I guess , '' replied Blacky .
`` I told you I was just talking foolishness .
You see , I 'm so hungry that I just got to thinking what I 'd have if I could have anything I wanted .
That made me think of eggs , and I tried to think just how I would feel if I should suddenly see a great big egg right in front of me .
I guess I must have said something about it . ''
`` I guess you must have .
It is n't egg time yet , and it wo n't be for a long time .
Take my advice and just forget about impossible things .
I 'm going over to Farmer Brown 's corncrib .
Corn may not be as good as eggs , but it is very good and very filling .
Better come along , '' said Sammy .
`` Not this morning , thank you .
Some other time , perhaps , '' replied Blacky .
He watched Sammy disappear through the trees .
Then he flew to the top of the tallest pine-tree to make sure that no one was about .
When he was quite sure that no one was watching him , he spread his wings and headed for the most lonesome corner of the Green Forest .
`` I 'm foolish .
I know I 'm foolish , '' he muttered .
`` But I 've just got to have another look in that old nest of Redtail the Hawk .
I just ca n't get it out of my head that that was an egg , a great , big , white egg , that I saw there yesterday .
It wo n't do any harm to have another look , anyway . ''
Straight toward the tree in which was the great tumble-down nest of Redtail the Hawk he flew , and as he drew near , he flew high , for Blacky is too shrewd and smart to take any chances .
Not that he thought that there could be any danger there ; but you never can tell , and it is always the part of wisdom to be on the safe side .
As he passed over the top of the tree , he looked down eagerly .
Just imagine how he felt when instead of one , he saw two white things in the old nest -- two white things that looked for all the world like eggs !
The day before there had been but one ; now there were two .
That settled it in Blacky 's mind ; they were eggs !
They could n't be anything else .
Blacky kept right on flying .
Somehow he did n't dare stop just then .
He was too much excited by what he had discovered to think clearly .
He had got to have time to get his wits together .
Whoever had laid those eggs was big and strong .
He felt sure of that .
It must be some one a great deal bigger than himself , and he was of no mind to get into trouble , even for a dinner of fresh eggs .
He must first find out whose they were ; then he would know better what to do .
He felt sure that no one else knew about them , and he knew that they could n't run away .
So he kept right on flying until he reached a certain tall pine-tree where he could sit and think without being disturbed .
`` Eggs ! ''
he muttered .
`` Real eggs !
Now who under the sun can have moved into Redtail 's old house ?
And what can they mean by laying eggs before Mistress Spring has even sent word that she has started ?
It 's too much for me .
It certainly is too much for me . ''
CHAPTER III : Blacky Finds Out Who Owns The Eggs Two big white eggs in a tumbledown nest , and snow and ice everywhere !
Did ever anybody hear of such a thing before ?
`` Would n't believe it , if I had n't seen it with my own eyes , '' muttered Blacky the Crow .
`` Have to believe them .
If I ca n't believe them , it 's of no use to try to believe anything in this world .
As sure as I sit here , that old nest has two eggs in it .
Whoever laid them must be crazy to start housekeeping at this time of year .
I must find out whose eggs they are and then -- '' Blacky did n't finish , but there was a hungry look in his eyes that would have told any who saw it , had there been any to see it , that he had a use for those eggs .
But there was none to see it , and he took the greatest care that there should be none to see him when he once again started for a certain lonesome corner of the Green Forest .
`` First I 'll make sure that the eggs are still there , '' thought he , and flew high above the tree tops , so that as he passed over the tree in which was the old nest of Red-tail the Hawk , he might look down into it .
To have seen him , you would never have guessed that he was looking for anything in particular .
He seemed to be just flying over on his way to some distant place .
If the eggs were still there , he meant to come back and hide in the top of a near-by pine-tree to watch until he was sure that he might safely steal those eggs , or to find out whose they were .
Blacky 's heart beat fast with excitement as he drew near that old tumble-down nest .
Would those two big white eggs be there ?
Perhaps there would be three !
The very thought made him flap his wings a little faster .
A few more wing strokes and he would be right over the tree .
How he did hope to see those eggs !
He could almost see into the nest now .
One stroke !
Two strokes !
Three strokes !
Blacky bit his tongue to keep from giving a sharp caw of disappointment and surprise .
There were no eggs to be seen .
No , Sir , there was n't a sign of eggs in that old nest .
There was n't because -- why , do you think ?
There was n't because Blacky looked straight down on a great mass of feathers which quite covered them from sight , and he did n't have to look twice to know that that great mass of feathers was really a great bird , the bird to whom those eggs belonged .
Blacky did n't turn to come back as he had planned .
He kept right on , just as if he had n't seen anything , and as he flew he shivered a little .
He shivered at the thought of what might have happened to him if he had tried to steal those eggs the day before and had been caught doing it .
`` I 'm thankful I knew enough to leave them alone , '' said he .
`` Funny I never once guessed whose eggs they are .
I might have known that no one but Hooty the Horned Owl would think of nesting at this time of year .
And that was Mrs. Hooty I saw on the nest just now .
My , but she 's big !
She 's bigger than Hooty himself !
Yes , Sir , it 's a lucky thing I did n't try to get those eggs yesterday .
Probably both Hooty and Mrs. Hooty were sitting close by , only they were sitting so still that I thought they were parts of the tree they were in .
Blacky , Blacky , the sooner you forget those eggs the better . ''
Some things are best forgotten As soon as they are learned .
Who never plays with fire Will surely not get burned .
CHAPTER IV : The Cunning Of Blacky Now when Blacky the Crow discovered that the eggs in the old tumble-down nest of Redtail the Hawk in a lonesome corner of the Green Forest belonged to Hooty the Owl , he straightway made the best of resolutions ; he would simply forget all about those eggs .
He would forget that he ever had seen them , and he would stay away from that corner of the Green Forest .
That was a very wise resolution .
Of all the people who live in the Green Forest , none is fiercer or more savage than Hooty the Owl , unless it is Mrs. Hooty .
She is bigger than Hooty and certainly quite as much to be feared by the little people .
All this Blacky knows .
No one knows it better .
And Blacky is not one to poke his head into trouble with his eyes open .
So he very wisely resolved to forget all about those eggs .
Now it is one thing to make a resolution and quite another thing to live up to it , as you all know .
It was easy enough to say that he would forget , but not at all easy to forget .
It would have been different if it had been spring or early summer , when there were plenty of other eggs to be had by any one smart enough to find them and steal them .
But now , when it was still winter -LRB- such an unheard-of time for any one to have eggs ! -RRB-
, and it was hard work to find enough to keep a hungry Crow 's stomach filled , the thought of those eggs would keep popping into his head .
He just could n't seem to forget them .
After a little , he did n't try .
Now Blacky the Crow is very , very cunning .
He is one of the smartest of all the little people who fly .
No one can get into more mischief and still keep out of trouble than can Blacky the Crow .
That is because he uses the wits in that black head of his .
In fact , some people are unkind enough to say that he spends all his spare time in planning mischief .
The more he thought of those eggs , the more he wanted them , and it was n't long before he began to try to plan some way to get them without risking his own precious skin .
`` I ca n't do it alone , '' thought he , `` and yet if I take any one into my secret , I 'll have to share those eggs .
That wo n't do at all , because I want them myself .
I found them , and I ought to have them . ''
He quite forgot or overlooked the fact that those eggs really belonged to Hooty and Mrs. Hooty and to no one else .
`` Now let me see , what can I do ? ''
He thought and he thought and he thought and he thought , and little by little a plan worked out in his little black head .
Then he chuckled .
He chuckled right out loud , then hurriedly looked around to see if any one had heard him .
No one had , so he chuckled again .
He cocked his head on one side and half closed his eyes , as if that plan was something he could see and he was looking at it very hard .
Then he cocked his head on the other side and did the same thing .
`` It 's all right , '' said he at last .
`` It 'll give my relatives a lot of fun , and of course they will be very grateful to me for that .
It wo n't hurt Hooty or Mrs. Hooty a bit , but it will make them very angry .
They have very short tempers , and people with short tempers usually forget everything else when they are angry .
We 'll pay them a visit while the sun is bright , because then perhaps they can not see well enough to catch us , and we 'll tease them until they lose their tempers and forget all about keeping guard over those eggs .
Then I 'll slip in and get one and perhaps both of them .
Without knowing that they are doing anything of the kind , my friends and relatives will help me to get a good meal .
My , how good those eggs will taste ! ''
It was a very clever and cunning plan , for Blacky is a very clever and cunning rascal , but of course it did n't deserve success because nothing that means needless worry and trouble for others deserves to succeed .
CHAPTER V : Blacky Calls His Friends When Blacky cries `` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
As if he 'd dislocate his jaw , His relatives all hasten where He waits them with a crafty air .
They know that there is mischief afoot , and the Crow family is always ready for mischief .
So on this particular morning when they heard Blacky cawing at the top of his lungs from the tallest pine-tree in the Green Forest , they hastened over there as fast as they could fly , calling to each other excitedly and sure that they were going to have a good time of some kind .
Blacky chuckled as he saw them coming .
`` Come on !
Come on !
Caw , caw , caw !
Hurry up and flap your wings faster .
I know where Hooty the Owl is , and we 'll have no end of fun with him , '' he cried .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted all his relatives in great glee .
`` Where is he ?
Lead us to him .
We 'll drive him out of the Green Forest ! ''
So Blacky led the way over to the most lonesome corner of the Green Forest , straight to the tree in which Hooty the Owl was comfortably sleeping .
Blacky had taken pains to slip over early that morning and make sure just where he was .
He had discovered Hooty fast asleep , and he knew that he would remain right where he was until dark .
You know Hooty 's eyes are not meant for much use in bright light , and the brighter the light , the more uncomfortable his eyes feel .
Blacky knows this , too , and he had chosen the very brightest part of the morning to call his relatives over to torment poor Hooty .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun was shining his very brightest , and the white snow on the ground made it seem brighter still .
Even Blacky had to blink , and he knew that poor Hooty would find it harder still .
But one thing Blacky was very careful not to even hint of , and that was that Mrs. Hooty was right close at hand .
Mrs. Hooty is bigger and even more fierce than Hooty , and Blacky did n't want to frighten any of the more timid of his relatives .
What he hoped down deep in his crafty heart was that when they got to teasing and tormenting Hooty and making the great racket which he knew they would , Mrs. Hooty would lose her temper and fly over to join Hooty in trying to drive away the black tormentors .
Then Blacky would slip over to the nest which she had left unguarded and steal one and perhaps both of the eggs he knew were there .
When they reached the tree where Hooty was , he was blinking his great yellow eyes and had fluffed out all his feathers , which is a way he has when he is angry , to make himself look twice as big as he really is .
Of course , he had heard the noisy crew coming , and he knew well enough what to expect .
As soon as they saw him , they began to scream as loud as ever they could and to call him all manner of names .
The boldest of them would dart at him as if to pull out a mouthful of feathers , but took the greatest care not to get too near .
You see , the way Hooty hissed and snapped his great bill was very threatening , and they knew that if once he got hold of one of them with those big cruel claws of his , that would be the end .
So they were content to simply scold and scream at him and fly around him , just out of reach , and make him generally uncomfortable , and they were so busy doing this that no one noticed that Blacky was not joining in the fun , and no one paid any attention to the old tumble-down nest of Redtail the Hawk only a few trees distant .
So far Blacky 's plans were working out just as he had hoped .
CHAPTER VI : Hooty The Owl Does n't Stay Still Now what 's the good of being smart When others do not do their part ?
If Blacky the Crow did n't say this to himself , he thought it .
He knew that he had made a very cunning plan to get the eggs of Hooty the Owl , a plan so shrewd and cunning that no one else in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows would have thought of it .
There was only one weakness in it , and that was that it depended for success on having Hooty the Owl do as he usually did when tormented by a crowd of noisy Crows , -- stay where he was until they got tired and flew away .
Now Blacky sometimes makes a mistake that smart people are very apt to make ; he thinks that because he is so smart , other people are stupid .
That is where he proves that smart as he is , he is n't as smart as he thinks he is .
He always thought of Hooty the Owl as stupid .
That is , he always thought of him that way in daytime .
At night , when he was waked out of a sound sleep by the fierce hunting cry of Hooty , he was n't so sure about Hooty being stupid , and he always took care to sit perfectly still in the darkness , lest Hooty 's great ears should hear him and Hooty 's great eyes , made for seeing in the dark , should find him .
No , in the night Blacky was not at all sure that Hooty was stupid .
But in the daytime he was sure .
You see , he quite forgot the fact that the brightness of day is to Hooty what the blackness of night is to him .
So , because Hooty would simply sit still and hiss and snap his bill , instead of trying to catch his tormentors or flying away , Blacky called him stupid .
He felt sure that Hooty would stay right where he was now , and he hoped that Mrs. Hooty would lose her temper and leave the nest where she was sitting on those two eggs and join Hooty to help him try to drive away that noisy crew .
But Hooty is n't stupid .
Not a bit of it .
The minute he found out that Blacky and his friends had discovered him , he thought of Mrs. Hooty and the two precious eggs in the old nest of Redtail the Hawk close by .
`` Mrs. Hooty must n't be disturbed , '' thought he .
`` That will never do at all .
I must lead these black rascals away where they wo n't discover Mrs. Hooty .
I certainly must . ''
So he spread his broad wings and blundered away among the trees a little way .
He did n't fly far because the instant he started to fly that whole noisy crew with the exception of Blacky were after him .
Because he could n't use his claws or bill while flying , they grew bold enough to pull a few feathers out of his back .
So he flew only a little way to a thick hemlock-tree , where it was n't easy for the Crows to get at him , and where the light did n't hurt his eyes so much .
There he rested a few minutes and then did the same thing over again .
He meant to lead those bothersome Crows into the darkest part of the Green Forest and there -- well , he could see better there , and it might be that one of them would be careless enough to come within reach .
No , Hooty was n't stupid .
Certainly not .
Blacky awoke to that fact as he sat in the top of a tall pine-tree silently watching .
He could see Mrs. Hooty on the nest , and as the noise of Hooty 's tormentors sounded from farther and farther away , she settled herself more comfortably and closed her eyes .
Blacky could imagine that she was smiling to herself .
It was clear that she had no intention of going to help Hooty .
His splendid plan had failed just because stupid Hooty , who was n't stupid at all , had flown away when he ought to have sat still .
It was very provoking .
CHAPTER VII : Blacky Tries Another Plan When one plan fails , just try another ; Declare you 'll win some way or other .
People who succeed are those who do not give up because they fail the first time they try .
They are the ones who , as soon as one plan fails , get busy right away and think of another plan and try that .
If the thing they are trying to do is a good thing , sooner or later they succeed .
If they are trying to do a wrong thing , very likely all their plans fail , as they should .
Now Blacky the Crow knows all about the value of trying and trying .
He is n't easily discouraged .
Sometimes it is a pity that he is n't , because he plans so much mischief .
But the fact remains that he is n't , and he tries and tries until he can not think of another plan and just has to give up .
When he invited all his relatives to join him in tormenting Hooty the Owl , he thought he had a plan that just could n't fail .
He felt sure that Mrs. Hooty would leave her nest and help Hooty try to drive away his tormentors .
But Mrs. Hooty did n't do anything of the kind , because Hooty was smart enough and thoughtful enough to lead his tormentors away from the nest into the darkest part of the Green Forest where their noise would n't bother Mrs. Hooty .
So she just settled herself more comfortably than ever on those eggs which Blacky had hoped she would give him a chance to steal , and his fine plan was quite upset .
Not one of his relatives had noticed that nest .
They had been too busy teasing Hooty .
This was just as Blacky had hoped .
He did n't want them to know about that nest because he was selfish and wanted to get those eggs just for himself alone .
But now he knew that the only way he could get Mrs. Hooty off of them would be by teasing her so that she would lose her temper and try to catch some of her tormentors .
If she did that , there would be a chance that he might slip in and get at least one of those eggs .
He would try it .
For a few minutes he listened to the noise of his relatives growing fainter and fainter , as Hooty led them farther and farther into the Green Forest .
Then he opened his mouth .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
he screamed .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw !
Come back , everybody !
Here is Mrs. Hooty on her nest !
Caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
Now as soon as they heard that , all Blacky 's relatives stopped chasing and tormenting Hooty and started back as fast as they could fly .
They did n't like the dark part of the Green Forest into which Hooty was leading them .
Besides , they wanted to see that nest .
So back they came , cawing at the top of their lungs , for they were very much excited .
Some of them never had seen a nest of Hooty 's .
And anyway , it would be just as much fun to tease Mrs. Hooty as it was to tease Hooty .
`` Where is the nest ? ''
they screamed , as they came back to where Blacky was cawing and pretending to be very much excited .
`` Why , '' exclaimed one , `` that is the old nest of Redtail the Hawk .
I know all about that nest . ''
And he looked at Blacky as if he thought Blacky was playing a joke on them .
`` It was Redtail 's , but it is Hooty 's now .
If you do n't believe me , just look in it , '' retorted Blacky .
At once they all began to fly over the top of the tree where they could look down into the nest and there , sure enough , was Mrs. Hooty , her great , round , yellow eyes glaring up at them angrily .
Such a racket !
Right away Hooty was forgotten , and the whole crowd at once began to torment Mrs. Hooty .
Only Blacky sat watchful and silent , waiting for Mrs. Hooty to lose her temper and try to catch one of her tormentors .
He had hope , a great hope , that he would get one of those eggs .
CHAPTER VIII : Hooty Comes To Mrs. Hooty 's Aid No one can live just for self alone .
A lot of people think they can , but they are very much mistaken .
They are making one of the greatest mistakes in the world .
Every teeny , weeny act , no matter what it is , affects somebody else .
That is one of Old Mother Nature 's great laws .
And it is just as true among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows as with boys and girls and grown people .
It is Old Mother Nature 's way of making each of us responsible for the good of all and of teaching us that always we should help each other .
As you know , when Blacky the Crow called all his relatives over to the nest where Mrs. Hooty was sitting on her eggs , they at once stopped tormenting Hooty and left him alone in a thick hemlock-tree in the darkest part of the Green Forest .
Of course Hooty was very , very glad to be left in peace , and he might have spent the rest of the day there sleeping in comfort .
But he did n't .
No , Sir , he did n't .
At first he gave a great sigh of relief and settled himself as if he meant to stay .
He listened to the voices of those noisy Crows growing fainter and fainter and was glad .
But it was only for a few minutes .
Presently those voices stopped growing fainter .
They grew more excited-sounding than ever , and they came right from one place .
Hooty knew then that his tormentors had found the nest where Mrs. Hooty was , and that they were tormenting her just as they had tormented him .
He snapped his bill angrily and then more angrily .
`` I guess Mrs. Hooty is quite able to take care of herself , '' he grumbled , `` but she ought not to be disturbed while she is sitting on those eggs .
I hate to go back there in that bright sunshine .
It hurts my eyes , and I do n't like it , but I guess I 'll have to go back there .
Mrs. Hooty needs my help .
I 'd rather stay here , but -- '' He did n't finish .
Instead , he spread his broad wings and flew back towards the nest and Mrs. Hooty .
His great wings made no noise , for they are made so that he can fly without making a sound .
`` If I once get hold of one of those Crows ! ''
he muttered to himself .
`` If I once get hold of one of those Crows , I 'll -- '' He did n't say what he would do , but if you had been near enough to hear the snap of his bill , you could have guessed the rest .
All this time the Crows were having what they called fun with Mrs. Hooty .
Nothing is true fun which makes others uncomfortable , but somehow a great many people seem to forget this .
So , while Blacky sat watching , his relatives made a tremendous racket around Mrs. Hooty , and the more angry she grew , the more they screamed and called her names and darted down almost in her face , as they pretended that they were going to fight her .
They were so busy doing this , and Blacky was so busy watching them , hoping that Mrs. Hooty would leave her nest and give him a chance to steal the eggs he knew were under her , that no one gave Hooty a thought .
All of a sudden he was there , right in the tree close to the nest !
No one had heard a sound , but there he was , and in the claws of one foot he held the tail feathers of one of Blacky 's relatives .
It was lucky , very lucky indeed for that one that the sun was in Hooty 's eyes and so he had missed his aim .
Otherwise there would have been one less Crow .
Now it is one thing to tease one lone Owl and quite another to tease two together .
Besides , there were those black tail feathers floating down to the snow-covered ground .
Quite suddenly those Crows decided that they had had fun enough for one day , and in spite of all Blacky could do to stop them , away they flew , cawing loudly and talking it all over noisily .
Blacky was the last to go , and his heart was sorrowful .
However could he get those eggs ?
CHAPTER IX : Blacky Thinks Of Farmer Brown 's Boy `` Such luck ! ''
grumbled Blacky , as he flew over to his favorite tree to do a little thinking .
`` Such luck !
Now all my neighbors know about the nest of Hooty the Owl , and sooner or later one of them will find out that there are eggs in it .
There is one thing about it , though , and that is that if I ca n't get them , nobody can .
That is to say , none of my relatives can .
I 've tried every way I can think of , and those eggs are still there .
My , my , my , how I would like one of them right now ! ''
Then Blacky the Crow did a thing which disappointed scamps often do , -- began to blame the ones he was trying to wrong because his plans had failed .
To have heard him talking to himself , you would have supposed that those eggs really belonged to him and that Hooty and Mrs. Hooty had cheated him out of them .
Yes , Sir , that is what you would have thought if you could have heard him muttering to himself there in the tree-top .
In his disappointment over not getting those eggs , he was so sorry for himself that he actually did feel that he was the one wronged , -- that Hooty and Mrs. Hooty should have let him have those eggs .
Of course , that was absolute foolishness , but he made himself believe it just the same .
At least , he pretended to believe it .
And the more he pretended , the angrier he grew .
This is often the way with people who try to wrong others .
They grow angry with the ones they have tried to wrong .
When at last Blacky had to confess to himself that he could think of no other way to get those eggs , he began to wonder if there was some way to make trouble for Hooty and Mrs. Hooty .
It was right then that he thought of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Blacky 's eyes snapped .
He remembered how , once upon a time , Farmer Brown 's boy had delighted to rob nests .
Blacky had seen him take the eggs from the nests of Blacky 's own relatives and from many other feathered people .
What he did with the eggs , Blacky had no idea .
Just now he did n't care .
If Farmer Brown 's boy would just happen to find Hooty 's nest , he would be sure to take those eggs , and then he , Blacky , would feel better .
He would feel that he was even with Hooty .
Right away he began to try to think of some way to bring Farmer Brown 's boy over to the lonesome corner of the Green Forest where Hooty 's nest was .
If he could once get him there , he felt sure that Farmer Brown 's boy would see the nest and climb up to it , and then of course he would take the eggs .
If he could n't have those eggs himself , the next best thing would be to see some one else get them .
Dear me , dear me , such dreadful thoughts !
I am afraid that Blacky 's heart was as black as his coat .
And the worst of it was , he seemed to get a lot of pleasure in his wicked plans .
Now right down in his heart he knew that they were wicked plans , but he tried to make excuses to himself .
`` Hooty the Owl is a robber , '' said he .
`` Everybody is afraid of him .
He lives on other people , and so far as I know he does no good in the world .
He is big and fierce , and no one loves him .
The Green Forest would be better off without him .
If those eggs hatch , there will be little Owls to be fed , and they will grow up into big fierce Owls , like their father and mother .
So if I show Farmer Brown 's boy that nest and he takes those eggs , I will be doing a kindness to my neighbors . ''
So Blacky talked to himself and tried to hush the still , small voice down inside that tried to tell him that what he was planning to do was really a dreadful thing .
And all the time he watched for Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER X : Farmer Brown 's Boy And Hooty Farmer Brown 's boy had taken it into his head to visit the Green Forest .
It was partly because he had n't anything else to do , and it was partly because now that it was very near the end of winter he wanted to see how things were there and if there were any signs of the coming of spring .
Blacky the Crow saw him coming , and Blacky chuckled to himself .
He had watched every day for a week for just this thing .
Now he would tell Farmer Brown 's boy about that nest of Hooty the Owl .
He flew over to the lonesome corner of the Green Forest where Hooty and Mrs. Hooty had made their home and at once began to caw at the top of his voice and pretend that he was terribly excited over something .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
shouted Blacky .
At once all his relatives within hearing hurried over to join him .
They knew that he was tormenting Hooty , and they wanted to join in the fun .
It was n't long before there was a great racket going on over in that lonesome corner of the Green Forest .
Of course Farmer Brown 's boy heard it .
He stopped and listened .
`` Now I wonder what Blacky and his friends have found this time , '' said he .
`` Whenever they make a fuss like that , there is usually something to see there .
I believe I 'll so over and have a look . ''
So he turned in the direction of the lonesome corner of the Green Forest , and as he drew near , he moved very carefully , so as to see all that he could without frightening the Crows .
He knew that as soon as they saw him , they would fly away , and that might alarm the one they were tormenting , for he knew enough of Crow ways to know that when they were making such a noise as they were now making , they were plaguing some one .
Blacky was the first to see him because he was watching for him .
But he did n't say anything until Farmer Brown 's boy was so near that he could n't help but see that nest and Hooty himself , sitting up very straight and snapping his bill angrily at his tormentors .
Then Blacky gave the alarm , and at once all the Crows rose in the air and headed for the Green Meadows , cawing at the top of their lungs .
Blacky went with them a little way .
The first chance he got he dropped out of the flock and silently flew back to a place where he could see all that might happen at the nest of Hooty the Owl .
When Farmer Brown 's boy first caught sight of the nest and saw the Crows darting down toward it and acting so excited , he was puzzled .
`` That 's an old nest of Red-tail the Hawk , '' thought he .
`` I found that last spring .
Now what can there be there to excite those Crows so ? ''
Then he caught sight of Hooty the Owl .
`` Ha , so that 's it ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Those scamps have discovered Hooty and have been having no end of fun tormenting him .
I wonder what he 's doing there . ''
He no longer tried to keep out of sight , but walked right up to the foot of the tree , all the time looking up .
Hooty saw him , but instead of flying away , he snapped his bill just as he had at the Crows and hissed .
`` That 's funny , '' thought Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` If I did n't know that to be the old nest of Redtail the Hawk , and if it were n't still the tail-end of winter , I would think that was Hooty 's nest . ''
He walked in a circle around the tree , looking up .
Suddenly he gave a little start .
Was that a tail sticking over the edge of the nest ?
He found a stick and threw it up .
It struck the bottom of the nest , and out flew a great bird .
It was Mrs. Hooty !
Blacky the Crow chuckled .
CHAPTER XI : Farmer Brown 's Boy Is Tempted When you 're tempted to do wrong Is the time to prove you 're strong .
Shut your eyes and clench each fist ; It will help you to resist .
When a bird is found sitting on a nest , it is a pretty sure sign that that nest holds something worth while .
It is a sign that that bird has set up housekeeping .
So when Farmer Brown 's boy discovered Mrs. Hooty sitting so close on the old nest of Redtail the Hawk , in the most lonesome corner of the Green Forest , he knew what it meant .
Perhaps I should say that he knew what it ought to mean .
It ought to mean that there were eggs in that nest .
But it was hard for Farmer Brown 's boy to believe that .
Why , spring had not come yet !
There was still snow , and the Smiling Pool was still covered with ice .
Who ever heard of birds nesting at this time of year ?
Certainly not Farmer Brown 's boy .
And yet Hooty the Owl and Mrs. Hooty were acting for all the world as feathered folks do act when they have eggs and are afraid that something is going to happen to them .
It was very puzzling .
`` That nest was built by Red-tail the Hawk , and it has n't even been repaired , '' muttered Farmer Brown 's boy , as he stared up at it .
`` If Hooty and his wife have taken it for their home , they are mighty poor housekeepers .
And if Mrs. Hooty has laid eggs this time of year , she must be crazy .
I suppose the way to find out is to climb up there .
It seems foolish , but I 'm going to do it .
Those Owls certainly act as if they are mighty anxious about something , and I 'm going to find out what it is . ''
He looked at Hooty and Mrs. Hooty , at their hooked bills and great claws , and decided that he would take a stout stick along with him .
He had no desire to feel these great claws .
When he had found a stick to suit him , he began to climb the tree .
Hooty and Mrs. Hooty snapped their bills and hissed fiercely .
They drew nearer .
Farmer Brown 's boy kept a watchful eye on them .
They looked so big and fierce that he was almost tempted to give up and leave them in peace .
But he just had to find out if there was anything in that nest , so he kept on .
As he drew near it , Mrs. Hooty swooped very near to him , and the snap of her bill made an ugly sound .
He held his stick ready to strike and kept on .
The nest was simply a great platform of sticks .
When Farmer Brown 's boy reached it , he found that he could not get where he could look into it , so he reached over and felt inside .
Almost at once his fingers touched something that made him tingle all over .
It was an egg , a great big egg !
There was no doubt about it .
It was just as hard for him to believe as it had been for Blacky the Crow to believe , when he first saw those eggs .
Farmer Brown 's boy 's fingers closed over that egg and took it out of the nest .
Mrs. Hooty swooped very close , and Farmer Brown 's boy nearly dropped the egg as he struck at her with his stick .
Then Mrs. Hooty and Hooty seemed to lose courage and withdrew to a tree near by , where they snapped their bills and hissed .
Then Farmer Brown 's boy looked at the prize in his hand .
It was a big , dirty-white egg .
His eyes shone .
What a splendid prize to add to his collection of birds ' eggs !
It was the first egg of the Great Horned Owl , the largest of all Owls , that he ever had seen .
Once more he felt in the nest and found there was another egg there .
`` I 'll take both of them , '' said he .
`` It 's the first nest of Hooty 's that I 've ever found , and perhaps I 'll never find another .
Gee , I 'm glad I came over here to find out what those Crows were making such a fuss about .
I wonder if I can get these clown without breaking them . ''
Just at that very minute he remembered something .
He remembered that he had stopped collecting eggs .
He remembered that he had resolved never to take another bird 's egg .
`` But this is different , '' whispered the tempter .
`` This is n't like taking the eggs of the little song birds . ''
CHAPTER XII : A Tree-Top Battle As black is black and white is white , So wrong is wrong and right is right .
There is n't any half way about it .
A thing is wrong or it is right , and that is all there is to it .
But most people have hard work to see this when they want very much to do a thing that the still small voice way down inside tells them is n't right .
They try to compromise .
To compromise is to do neither one thing nor the other but a little of both .
But you ca n't do that with right and wrong .
It is a queer thing , but a half right never is as good as a whole right , while a half wrong often , very often , is as bad as a whole wrong .
Farmer Brown 's boy , up in the tree by the nest of Hooty the Owl in the lonesome corner of the Green Forest , was fighting a battle .
No , he was n't fighting with Hooty or Mrs. Hooty .
He was fighting a battle right inside himself .
It was a battle between right and wrong .
Once upon a time he had taken great delight in collecting the eggs of birds , in trying to see how many kinds he could get .
Then as he had come to know the little forest and meadow people better , he had seen that taking the eggs of birds is very , very wrong , and he had stopped stealing them .
He bad declared that never again would he steal an egg from a bird .
But never before had he found a nest of Hooty the Owl .
Those two big eggs would add ever so much to his collection .
`` Take 'em , '' said a little voice inside .
`` Hooty is a robber .
You will be doing a kindness to the other birds by taking them . ''
`` Do n't do it , '' said another little voice .
`` Hooty may be a robber , but he has a place in the Green Forest , or Old Mother Nature never would have put him here .
It is just as much stealing to take his eggs as to take the eggs of any other bird .
He has just as much right to them as Jenny Wren has to hers . ''
`` Take one and leave one , '' said the first voice .
`` That will be just as much stealing as if you took both , '' said the second voice .
`` Besides , you will be breaking your own word .
You said that you never would take another egg . ''
`` I did n't promise anybody but myself , '' declared Farmer Brown 's boy right out loud .
At the sound of his voice , Hooty and Mrs. Hooty , sitting in the next tree , snapped their bills and hissed louder than ever .
`` A promise to yourself ought to be just as good as a promise to any one else .
I do n't wonder Hooty hisses at you , '' said the good little voice .
`` Think how fine those eggs will look in your collection and how proud you will be to show them to the other fellows who never have found a nest of Hooty 's , '' said the first little voice .
`` And think how mean and small and cheap you 'll feel every time you look at them , '' added the good little voice .
`` You 'll get a lot more fun if you leave them to hatch out and then watch the little Owls grow up and learn all about their ways .
Just think what a stout , brave fellow Hooty is to start housekeeping at this time of year , and how wonderful it is that Mrs. Hooty can keep these eggs warm and when they have hatched take care of the baby Owls before others have even begun to build their nests .
Besides , wrong is wrong and right is right , always . ''
Slowly Farmer Brown 's boy reached over the edge of the nest and put back the egg .
Then he began to climb down the tree .
When he reached the ground he went off a little way and watched .
Almost at once Mrs. Hooty flew to the nest and settled down on the eggs , while Hooty mounted guard close by .
`` I 'm glad I did n't take 'em , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Yes , Sir , I 'm glad I did n't take 'em . ''
As he turned back toward home , he saw Blacky the Crow flying over the Green Forest , and little did he guess how he had upset Blacky 's plans .
CHAPTER XIII : Blacky Has A Change Of Heart Blacky The Crow is n't all black .
No , indeed .
His coat is black , and sometimes it seems as if his heart is all black , but this is n't so .
It certainly seemed as if his heart was all black when he tried so hard to make trouble for Hooty the Owl .
It would seem as if only a black heart could have urged him to try so hard to steal the eggs of Hooty and Mrs. Hooty , but this was n't really so .
You see , it did n't seem at all wrong to try to get those eggs .
Blacky was hungry , and those eggs would have given him a good meal .
He knew that Hooty would n't hesitate to catch him and eat him if he had the chance , and so it seemed to him perfectly right and fair to steal Hooty 's eggs if he was smart enough to do so .
And most of the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows would have felt the same way about it .
You see , it is one of the laws of Old Mother Nature that each one must learn to look out for himself .
But when Blacky showed that nest of Hooty 's to Farmer Brown 's boy with the hope that Farmer Brown 's boy would steal those eggs , there was blackness in his heart .
He was doing something then which was pure meanness .
He was just trying to make trouble for Hooty , to get even because Hooty had been too smart for him .
He had sat in the top of a tall pine-tree where he could see all that happened , and he had chuckled wickedly as he had seen Farmer Brown 's boy climb to Hooty 's nest and take out an egg .
He felt sure that he would take both eggs .
He hoped so , anyway .
When he saw Farmer Brown 's boy put the eggs back and climb down the tree without any , he had to blink his eyes to make sure that he saw straight .
He just could n't believe what he saw .
At first he was dreadfully disappointed and angry .
It looked very much as if he were n't going to get even with Hooty after all .
He flew over to his favorite tree to think things over .
Now sometimes it is a good thing to sit by oneself and think things over .
It gives the little small voice deep down inside a chance to be heard .
It was just that way with Blacky now .
The longer he thought , the meaner his action in calling Farmer Brown 's boy looked .
It was one thing to try to steal those eggs himself , but it was quite another matter to try to have them stolen by some one against whom Hooty had no protection whatever .
`` If it had been any one but Hooty , you would have done your best to have kept Farmer Brown 's boy away , '' said the little voice inside .
Blacky hung his head .
He knew that it was true .
More than once , in fact many times , he had warned other feathered folks when Farmer Brown 's boy had been hunting for their nests , and had helped to lead him away .
At last Blacky threw up his head and chuckled , and this time his chuckle was good to hear .
`` I 'm glad that Farmer Brown 's boy did n't take those eggs , '' said he right out loud .
`` Yes , sir , I 'm glad .
I 'll never do such a thing as that again .
I 'm ashamed of what I did ; yet I 'm glad I did it .
I 'm glad because I 've learned some things .
I 've learned that Farmer Brown 's boy is n't as much to be feared as he used to be .
I 've learned that Hooty is n't as stupid as I thought he was .
I 've learned that while it may be all right for us people of the Green Forest to try to outwit each other we ought to protect each other against common dangers .
And I 've learned something I did n't know before , and that is that Hooty the Owl is the very first of us to set up housekeeping .
Now I think I 'll go hunt for an honest meal . ''
And he did .
CHAPTER XIV : Blacky Makes A Call Judge no one by his style of dress ; Your ignorance you thus confess .
-- Blacky the Crow .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw . ''
There was no need of looking to see who that was .
Peter Rabbit knew without looking .
Mrs. Quack knew without looking .
Just the same , both looked up .
Just alighting in the top of a tall tree was Blacky the Crow .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , '' he repeated , looking down at Peter and Mrs. Quack and Mr. Quack and the six young Quacks .
`` I hope I am not interrupting any secret gossip . ''
`` Not at all , '' Peter hastened to say .
`` Mrs. Quack was just telling me of the troubles and clangers in bringing up a young family in the Far North .
How did you know the Quacks had arrived ? ''
Blacky chuckled hoarsely .
`` I did n't , '' said he .
`` I simply thought there might be something going on I did n't know about over here in the pond of Paddy the Beaver , so I came over to find out .
Mr. Quack , you and Mrs. Quack are looking very fine this fall .
And those handsome young Quacks , you do n't mean to tell me that they are your children ! ''
Mrs. Quack nodded proudly .
`` They are , '' said she .
`` You do n't say so ! ''
exclaimed Blacky , as if he were very much surprised , when all the time he was n't surprised at all .
`` They are a credit to their parents .
Yes , indeed , they are a credit to their parents .
Never have I seen finer young Ducks in all my life .
How glad the hunters with terrible guns will be to see them . ''
Mrs. Quack shivered at that , and Blacky saw it .
He chuckled softly .
You know he dearly loves to make others uncomfortable .
`` I saw three hunters over on the edge of the Big River early this very morning , '' said he .
Mrs. Quack looked more anxious than ever .
Blacky 's sharp eyes noted this .
`` That is why I came over here , '' he added kindly .
`` I wanted to give you warning . ''
`` But you did n't know the Quacks were here ! ''
spoke up Peter .
`` True enough , Peter .
True enough , '' replied Blacky , his eyes twinkling .
`` But I thought they might be .
I had heard a rumor that those who go south are traveling earlier than usual this fall , so I knew I might find Mr. and Mrs. Quack over here any time now .
Is it true , Mrs. Quack , that we are going to have a long , hard , cold winter ? ''
`` That is what they say up in the Far North , '' replied Mrs. Quack .
`` And it is true that Jack Frost had started down earlier than usual .
That is how it happens we are here now .
But about those hunters over by the Big River , do you suppose they will come over here ? ''
There was an anxious note in Mrs. Quack 's voice .
`` No , '' replied Blacky promptly .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy wo n't let them .
I know .
I 've been watching him and he has been watching those hunters .
As long as you stay here , you will be safe .
What a great world this would be if all those two-legged creatures were like Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
`` Would n't it ! ''
cried Peter .
Then he added , `` I wish they were . ''
`` You do n't wish it half as much as I do , '' declared Mrs. Quack .
`` Yet I can remember when he used to hunt with a terrible gun and was as bad as the worst of them , '' said Blacky .
`` What changed him ? ''
asked Mrs. Quack , looking interested .
`` Just getting really acquainted with some of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , '' replied Blacky .
`` He found them ready to meet him more than halfway in friendship and that some of them really are his best friends . ''
`` And now he is their best friend , '' spoke up Peter .
Blacky nodded .
`` Right , Peter , '' said he .
`` That is why the Quacks are safe here and will be as long as they stay . ''
CHAPTER XV : Blacky Does A Little Looking About Do not take the word of others That things are or are not so When there is a chance that you may Find out for yourself and know .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky the Crow is a shrewd fellow .
He is one of the smartest and shrewdest of all the little people in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows .
Everybody knows it .
And because of this , all his neighbors have a great deal of respect for him , despite his mischievous ways .
Of course , Blacky had noticed that Johnny Chuck had dug his house deeper than usual and had stuffed himself until he was fatter than ever before .
He had noticed that Jerry Muskrat was making the walls of his house thicker than in other years , and that Paddy the Beaver was doing the same thing to his house .
You know there is very little that escapes the sharp eyes of Blacky the Crow .
He had guessed what these things meant .
`` They think we are going to have a long , hard , cold winter , '' muttered Blacky to himself .
`` Perhaps they know , but I want to see some signs of it for myself .
They may be only guessing .
Anybody can do that , and one guess is as good as another . ''
Then he found Mr. and Mrs. Quack , the Mallard Ducks , and their children in the pond of Paddy the Beaver and remembered that they never had come down from their home in the Far North as early in the fall as this .
Mrs. Quack explained that Jack Frost had already started south , and so they had started earlier to keep well ahead of him .
`` Looks as if there may be something in this idea of a long , hard , cold winter , '' thought Blacky , `` but perhaps the Quacks are only guessing , too .
I would n't take their word for it any more than I would the word of Johnny Chuck or Jerry Muskrat or Paddy the Beaver .
I 'll look about a little . ''
So after warning the Quacks to remain in the pond of Paddy the Beaver if they would be safe , Blacky bade them good-by and flew away .
He headed straight for the Green Meadows and Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
A little of that yellow corn would make a good breakfast .
When he reached the cornfield , Blacky perched on top of a shock of corn , for it already had been cut and put in shocks in readiness to be carted up to Farmer Brown 's barn .
For a few minutes he sat there silent and motionless , but all the time his sharp eyes were making sure that no enemy was hiding behind one of those brown shocks .
When he was quite certain that things were as safe as they seemed , he picked out a plump ear of corn and began to tear open the husks , so as to get at the yellow grains .
`` Seems to me these husks are unusually thick , '' muttered Blacky , as he tore at them with his stout bill .
`` Do n't remember ever having seen them as thick as these .
Wonder if it just happens to be so on this ear . ''
Then , as a sudden thought popped into his black head , he left that ear and went to another .
The husks of this were as thick as those on the first .
He flew to another shock and found the husks there just the same .
He tried a third shock with the same result .
`` Huh , they are all alike , '' said he .
Then he looked thoughtful and for a few minutes sat perfectly still like a black statue .
`` They are right , '' said he at last .
`` Yes , Sir , they are right . ''
Of course he meant Johnny Chuck and Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver and the Quacks .
`` I do n't know how they know it , but they are right ; we are going to have a long , hard , cold winter .
I know it myself now .
I 've found a sign .
Old Mother Nature has wrapped this corn in extra thick husks , and of course she has done it to protect it .
She does n't do things without a reason .
We are going to have a cold winter , or my name is n't Blacky the Crow . ''
CHAPTER XVI : Blacky Finds Other Signs A single fact may fail to prove you either right or wrong ; Confirm it with another and your proof will then be strong .
-- Blacky the Crow .
After his discovery that Old Mother Nature had wrapped all the ears of corn in extra thick husks , Blacky had no doubt in his own mind that Johnny Chuck and Jerry Muskrat and Paddy the Beaver and the Quacks were quite right in feeling that the coming winter would be long , hard and cold .
But Blacky long ago learned that it is n't wise or wholly safe to depend altogether on one thing .
`` Old Mother Nature never does things by halves , '' thought Blacky , as he sat on the fence post on the Green Meadows , thinking over his discovery of the thick husks on the corn .
`` She would n't take care to protect the corn that way and not do as much for other things .
There must be other signs , if I am smart enough to find them . ''
He lifted one black wing and began to set in order the feathers beneath it .
Suddenly he made a funny little hop straight up .
`` Well , I never ! ''
he exclaimed , as he spread his wings to regain his balance .
`` I never did ! ''
`` Is that so ? ''
piped a squeaky little voice .
`` If you say you never did , I suppose you never did , though I want the word of some one else before I will believe it .
What is it you never did ? ''
Blacky looked down .
Peeping up at him from the brown grass were two bright little eyes .
`` Hello , Danny Meadow Mouse ! ''
exclaimed Blacky .
`` I have n't seen you for a long time .
I 've looked for you several times lately . ''
`` I do n't doubt it .
I do n't doubt it at all , '' squeaked Danny .
`` You 'll never see me when you are looking for me .
That is , you wo n't if I can help it .
You wo n't if I see you first . ''
Blacky chuckled .
He knew what Danny meant .
When Blacky goes looking for Danny Meadow Mouse , it usually is in hope of having a Meadow Mouse dinner , and he knew that Danny knew this .
`` I 've had my breakfast , '' said Blacky , `` and it is n't dinner time yet . ''
`` What is it you never did ? ''
persisted Danny , in his squeaky voice .
`` That was just an exclamation , '' explained Blacky .
`` I made a discovery that surprised me so I exclaimed right out . ''
`` What was it ? ''
demanded Danny .
`` It was that the feathers of my coat are coming in thicker than I ever knew them to before .
I had n't noticed it until I started to set them in order a minute ago . ''
He buried his bill in the feathers of his breast .
`` Yes , sir , '' said he in a muffled voice , `` they are coming in thicker than I ever knew them to before .
There is a lot of down around the roots of them .
I am going to have the warmest coat I 've ever had . ''
`` Well , do n't think you are the only one , '' retorted Danny .
`` My fur never was so thick at this time of year as it is now , and it is the same way with Nanny Meadow Mouse and all our children .
I suppose you know what it means . ''
`` What does it mean ? ''
asked Blacky , just as if he did n't have the least idea , although he had guessed the instant he discovered those extra feathers .
`` It means we are going to have a long , hard , cold winter , and Old Mother Nature is preparing us for it , '' replied Danny , quite as if he knew all about it .
`` You 'll find that everybody who does n't go south or sleep all winter has a thicker coat than usual .
Hello !
There is old Roughleg the Hawk !
He has come extra early this year .
I think I 'll go back to warn Nanny . ''
Without another word Danny disappeared in the brown grass .
Again Blacky chuckled .
`` More signs , '' said he to himself .
`` More signs .
There is n't a doubt that we are going to have a hard winter .
I wonder if I can stand it or if I 'd better go a little way south , where it will be warmer . ''
CHAPTER XVII : Blacky Watches A Queer Performance This much to me is very clear : A thing not understood is queer .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky the Crow may be right .
Again he may not be .
If he is right , it will account for a lot of the queer people in the world .
They are not understood , and so they are queer .
At least , that is what other people say , and never once think that perhaps they are the queer ones for not understanding .
But Blacky is n't like those people who are satisfied not to understand and to think other people and things queer .
He does his best to understand .
He waits and watches and uses those sharp eyes of his and those quick wits of his until at last usually he does understand .
The day of his discovery of Old Mother Nature 's signs that the coming winter would be long , hard and cold , Blacky paid a visit to the Big River .
Long ago he discovered that many things are to be seen on or beside the Big River , things not to be seen elsewhere .
So there are few clays in which he does not get over there .
As he drew near the Big River , he was very watchful and careful , was Blacky , for this was the season when hunters with terrible guns were abroad , and he had discovered that they were likely to be hiding along the Big River , hoping to shoot Mr. or Mrs. Quack or some of their relatives .
So he was very watchful as he drew near the Big River , for he had learned that it was dangerous to pass too near a hunter with a terrible gun .
More than once he had been shot at .
But he had learned by these experiences .
Oh , yes , Blacky had learned .
For one thing , he had learned to know a gun when he saw it .
For another thing , he had learned just how far away one of these dreadful guns could be and still hurt the one it was pointed at , and to always keep just a little farther away .
Also he had learned that a man or boy without a terrible gun is quite harmless , and he had learned that hunters with terrible guns are tricky and sometimes hide from those they seek to kill , so that in the dreadful hunting season it is best to look sharply before approaching any place .
On this afternoon , as he drew near the Big River , he saw a man who seemed to be very busy on the shore of the Big River , at a place where wild rice and rushes grew for some distance out in the water , for just there it was shallow far out from the shore .
Blacky looked sharply for a terrible gun .
But the man had none with him and therefore was not to be feared .
Blacky boldly drew near until he was able to see what the man was doing .
Then Blacky 's eyes stretched their widest and he almost cawed right out with surprise .
The man was taking yellow corn from a bag , a handful at a time , and throwing it out in the water .
Yes , Sir , that is what he was doing , scattering nice yellow corn among the rushes and wild rice in the water !
`` That 's a queer performance , '' muttered Blacky , as he watched .
`` What is he throwing perfectly good corn out in the water for ?
He is n't planting it , for this is n't the planting season .
Besides , it would n't grow in the water , anyway .
It is a shame to waste nice corn like that .
What is he doing it for ? ''
Blacky flew over to a tree some distance away and alighted in the top of it to watch the queer performance .
You know Blacky has very keen eyes and he can see a long distance .
For a while the man continued to scatter corn and Blacky continued to wonder what he was doing it for .
At last the man went away in a boat .
Blacky watched him until he was out of sight .
Then he spread his wings and slowly flew back and forth just above the rushes and wild rice , at the place where the man had been scattering the corn .
He could see some of the yellow grains on the bottom .
Presently he saw something else .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Blacky .
CHAPTER XVIII : Blacky Becomes Very Suspicious Of things you do not understand , Beware !
They may be wholly harmless but -- Beware !
You 'll find the older that you grow That only things and folks you know Are fully to be trusted , so Beware !
-- Blacky the Crow .
That is one of Blacky 's wise sayings , and he lives up to it .
It is one reason why he has come to be regarded by all his neighbors as one of the smartest of all who live in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadow .
He seldom gets into any real trouble because he first makes sure there is no trouble to get into .
When he discovers something he does not understand , he is at once distrustful of it .
As he watched a man scattering yellow corn in the water from the shore of the Big River he at once became suspicious .
He could n't understand why a man should throw good corn among the rushes and wild rice in the water , and because he could n't understand , he at once began to suspect that it was for no good purpose .
When the man left in a boat , Blacky slowly flew over the rushes where the man had thrown the corn , and presently his sharp eyes made a discovery that caused him to exclaim right out .
What was it Blacky had discovered ?
Only a few feathers .
No one with eyes less sharp than Blacky 's would have noticed them .
And few would have given them a thought if they had noticed them .
But Blacky knew right away that those were feathers from a Duck .
He knew that a Duck , or perhaps a flock of Ducks , had been resting or feeding in there among those rushes , and that in moving about they had left those two or three downy feathers .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Blacky .
`` Mr. and Mrs. Quack or some of their relatives have been here .
It is just the kind of a place Ducks like .
Also some Ducks like corn .
If they should come back here and find this corn , they would have a feast , and they would be sure to come again .
That man who scattered the corn here did n't have a terrible gun , but that does n't mean that he is n't a hunter .
He may come back again , and then he may have a terrible gun .
I 'm suspicious of that man .
I am so .
I believe he put that corn here for Ducks and I do n't believe he did it out of the kindness of his heart .
If it was Farmer Brown 's boy I would know that all is well ; that he was thinking of hungry Ducks , with few places where they can feed in safety , as they make the long journey from the Far North to the Sunny South .
But it was n't Farmer Brown 's boy .
I do n't like the looks of it .
I do n't indeed .
I 'll keep watch of this place and see what happens . ''
All the way to his favorite perch in a certain big hemlock-tree in the Green Forest , Blacky kept thinking about that corn and the man who had seemed to be generous with it , and the more he thought , the more suspicious he became .
He did n't like the looks of it at all .
`` I 'll warn the Quacks to keep away from there .
I 'll do it the very first thing in the morning , '' he muttered , as he prepared to go to sleep .
`` If they have any sense at all , they will stay in the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
But if they should go over to the Big River , they would be almost sure to find that corn , and if they should once find it , they would keep going back for more .
It may be all right , but I do n't like the looks of it . ''
And still full of suspicions , Blacky went to sleep .
CHAPTER XIX : Blacky Makes More Discoveries Little things you fail to see May important prove to be .
-- Blacky the Crow .
One of the secrets of Blacky 's success in life is the fact that he never fails to take note of little things .
Long ago he learned that little things which in themselves seem harmless and not worth noticing may together prove the most important things in life .
So , no matter how unimportant a thing may appear , Blacky examines it closely with those sharp eyes of his and remembers it .
The very first thing Blacky did , as soon as he was awake the morning after he discovered the man scattering corn in the rushes at a certain place on the edge of the Big River , was to fly over to the pond of Paddy the Beaver and again warn Mr. and Mrs. Quack to keep away from the Big River , if they and their six children would remain safe .
Then he got some breakfast .
He ate it in a hurry and flew straight over to the Big River to the place where he had seen that yellow corn scattered .
Blacky was n't wholly surprised to find Dusky the Black Duck , own cousin to Mr. and Mrs. Quack the Mallard Ducks , with a number of his relatives in among the rushes and wild rice at the very place where that corn had been scattered .
They seemed quite contented and in the best of spirits .
Blacky guessed why .
Not a single grain of that yellow corn could Blacky see .
He knew the ways of Dusky and his relatives .
He knew that they must have come in there just at dusk the night before and at once had found that corn .
He knew that they would remain hiding there until frightened out , and that then they would spend the day in some little pond where they would not be likely to be disturbed or where at least no danger could approach them without being seen in plenty of time .
There they would rest all day , and when the Black Shadows came creeping out from the Purple Hills , they would return to that place on the Big River to feed , for that is the time when they like best to hunt for their food .
Dusky looked up as Blacky flew over him , but Blacky said nothing , and Dusky said nothing .
But if Blacky did n't use his tongue , he did use his eyes .
He saw just on the edge of the shore what looked like a lot of small bushes growing close together on the very edge of the water .
Mixed in with them were a lot of the brown rushes .
They looked very harmless and innocent .
But Blacky knew every foot of that shore along the Big River , and he knew that those bushes had n't been there during the summer .
He knew that they had n't grown there .
He flew directly over them .
Just back of them were a couple of logs .
Those logs had n't been there when he passed that way a few days before .
He was sure of it .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Blacky under his breath .
`` Those look to me as if they might be very handy , very handy indeed , for a hunter to sit on .
Sitting there behind those bushes , he would be hidden from any Duck who might come in to look for nice yellow corn scattered out there among the rushes .
It does n't look right to me .
No , Sir , it does n't look right to me .
I think I 'll keep an eye on this place . ''
So Blacky came back to the Big River several times that day .
The second time back he found that Dusky the Black Duck and his relatives had left .
When he returned in the afternoon , he saw the same man he had seen there the afternoon before , and he was doing the same thing , -- scattering yellow corn out in the rushes .
And as before , he went away in a boat .
`` I do n't like it , '' muttered Blacky , shaking his black head .
`` I do n't like it . ''
CHAPTER XX : Blacky Drops A Hint When you see another 's danger Warn him though he be a stranger .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Every day for a week a man came in a boat to scatter corn in the rushes at a certain point along the bank of the Big River , and every day Blacky the Crow watched him and shook his black head and talked to himself and told himself that he did n't like it , and that he was sure that it was for no good purpose .
Sometimes Blacky watched from a distance , and sometimes he flew right over the man .
But never once did the man have a gun with him .
Every morning , very early , Blacky flew over there , and every morning he found Dusky the Black Duck and his flock in the rushes and wild rice at that particular place , and he knew that they had been there all night , He knew that they had come in there just at dusk the night before , to feast on the yellow corn the man had scattered there in the afternoon .
`` It is no business of mine what those Ducks do , '' muttered Blacky to himself , `` but as surely as my tail feathers are black , something is going to happen to some of them one of these days .
That man may be fooling them , but he is n't fooling me .
Not a bit of it .
He has n't had a gun with him once when I have seen him , but just the same he is a hunter .
I feel it in my bones .
He knows those silly Ducks come in here every night for that corn he puts out .
He knows that after they have been here a few times and nothing has frightened them , they will be so sure that it is a safe place that they will not be the least bit suspicious .
Then he will hide behind those bushes he has placed close to the edge of the water and wait for them with his terrible gun .
That is what he will do , or my name is n't Blacky . ''
Finally Blacky decided to drop a hint to Dusky the Black Duck .
So the next morning he stopped for a call .
`` Good morning , '' said he , as Dusky swam in just in front of him .
`` I hope you are feeling as fine as you look . ''
`` Quack , quack , '' replied Dusky .
`` When Blacky the Crow flatters , he hopes to gain something .
What is it this time ? ''
`` Not a thing , '' replied Blacky .
`` On my honor , not a thing .
There is nothing for me here , though there seems to be plenty for you and your relatives , to judge by the fact that I find you in this same place every morning .
What is it ? ''
`` Corn , '' replied Dusky in a low voice , as if afraid some one might overhear him .
`` Nice yellow corn . ''
`` Corn ! ''
exclaimed Blacky , as if very much astonished .
`` How does corn happen to be way over here in the water ? ''
Dusky shook his head .
`` Do n't ask me , for I ca n't tell you , '' said he .
`` I have n't the least idea .
All I know is that every evening when we arrive , we find it here .
How it gets here , I do n't know , and furthermore I do n't care .
It is enough for me that it is here . ''
`` I 've seen a man over here every afternoon , '' said Blacky .
`` I thought he might be a hunter . ''
`` Did he have a terrible gun ? ''
asked Dusky suspiciously .
`` No-o , '' replied Blacky .
`` Then he is n't a hunter , '' declared Dusky , looking much relieved .
`` But perhaps one of these days he will have one and will wait for you to come in for your dinner , '' suggested Blacky .
`` He could hide behind these bushes , you know . ''
`` Nonsense , '' retorted Dusky , tossing his head .
`` There has n't been a sign of danger here since we have been here .
I know you , Blacky ; you are jealous because we find plenty to eat here , and you find nothing .
You are trying to scare us .
But I 'll tell you right now , you ca n't scare us away from such splendid eating as we have had here .
So there ! ''
CHAPTER XXI : At Last Blacky Is Sure Who for another conquers fear Is truly brave , it is most clear .
-- Blacky the Crow .
It was late in the afternoon , and Blacky the Crow was on his way to the Green Forest .
As usual , he went around by the Big River to see if that man was scattering corn for the Ducks .
He was n't there .
No one was to be seen along the bank of the Big River .
`` He has n't come to-day , or else he came early and has left , '' thought Blacky .
And then his sharp eyes caught sight of something that made him turn aside and make straight for a certain tree , from the top of which he could see all that went on for a long distance .
What was it Blacky saw ?
It was a boat coming down the Big River .
Blacky sat still and watched .
Presently the boat turned in among the rushes , and a moment later a man stepped out on the shore .
It was the same man Blacky had watched scatter corn in the rushes every day for a week .
There was n't the least doubt about it , it was the same man .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
exclaimed Blacky , and nearly lost his balance in his excitement .
`` Ha , ha !
It is just as I thought ! ''
You see Blacky 's sharp eyes had seen that the man was carrying something , and that something was a gun , a terrible gun .
Blacky knows a terrible gun as far as he can see it .
The hunter , for of course that is what he was , tramped along the shore until he reached the bushes which Blacky had noticed close to the water and which he knew had not grown there .
The hunter looked out over the Big River .
Then he walked along where he had scattered corn the day before .
Not a grain was to be seen .
This seemed to please him .
Then he went back to the bushes and sat down on a log behind them , his terrible gun across his knees .
`` I was sure of it , '' muttered Blacky .
`` He is going to wait there for those Ducks to come in , and then something dreadful will happen .
What terrible creatures these hunters are !
They do n't know what fairness is .
No , Sir , they do n't know what fairness is .
He has put food there day after day , where Dusky the Black Duck and his flock would be sure to find it , and has waited until they have become so sure there is no danger that they are no longer suspicious .
He knows they will feel so sure that all is safe that they will come in without looking for danger .
Then he will fire that terrible gun and kill them without giving them any chance at all .
`` Reddy Fox is a sly , clever hunter , but he would n't do a thing like that .
Neither would Old Man Coyote or anybody else who wears fur or feathers .
They might hide and try to catch some one by surprise .
That is all right , because each of us is supposed to be on the watch for things of that sort .
Oh , dear , what 's to be done ?
It is time I was getting home to the Green Forest .
The Black Shadows will soon come creeping out from the Purple Hills , and I must be safe in my hemlock-tree by then .
I would be scared to death to be out after dark .
Yet those Ducks ought to be warned .
Oh , dear , what shall I do ? ''
Blacky peered over at the Green Forest and then over toward the Purple Hills , behind which jolly , round , red Mr. Sun would go to bed very shortly .
He shivered as he thought of the Black Shadows that soon would come swiftly out from the Purple Hills across the Big River and over the Green Meadows .
With them might come Hooty the Owl , and Hooty would n't object in the least to a Crow dinner .
He wished he was in that hemlock-tree that very minute .
Then Blacky looked at the hunter with his terrible gun and thought of what might happen , what would be almost sure to happen , unless those Ducks were warned .
`` I 'll wait a little while longer , '' muttered Blacky , and tried to feel brave .
But instead he shivered .
CHAPTER XXII : Blacky Goes Home Happy No greater happiness is won Than through a deed for others done .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky sat in the top of a tree near the bank of the Big River and could n't make up his mind what to do .
He wanted to get home to the big , thick hemlock-tree in the Green Forest before dusk , for Blacky is afraid of the dark .
That is , he is afraid to be out after dark .
`` Go along home , '' said a voice inside him , `` there is hardly time now for you to get there before the Black Shadows arrive .
Do n't waste any more time here .
What may happen to those silly Ducks is no business of yours , and there is nothing you can do , anyway .
Go along home . ''
`` Wait a few minutes , '' said another little voice down inside him .
`` Do n't be a coward .
You ought to warn Dusky the Black Duck and his flock that a hunter with a terrible gun is waiting for them .
Is it true that it is no business of yours what happens to those Ducks ?
Think again , Blacky ; think again .
It is the duty of each one who sees a common danger to warn his neighbors .
If something dreadful should happen to Dusky because you were afraid of the dark , you never would be comfortable in your own mind .
Stay a little while and keep watch . ''
Not five minutes later Blacky saw something that made him , oh , so glad he had kept watch .
It was a swiftly moving black line just above the water far down the Big River , and it was coming up .
He knew what that black line was .
He looked over at the hunter hiding behind some bushes close to the edge of the water .
The hunter was crouching with his terrible gun in his hands and was peeping over the bushes , watching that black line .
He , too , knew what it was .
It was a flock of Ducks flying .
Blacky was all ashake again , but this time it was n't with fear of being caught away from home in the dark ; it was with excitement .
He knew that those Ducks had become so eager for more of that corn , that delicious yellow corn which every night for a week they had found scattered in the rushes just in front of the place where that hunter was now hiding , that they could n't wait for the coming of the Black Shadows .
They were so sure there was no danger that they were coming in to eat without waiting for the Black Shadows , as they usually did .
And Blacky was glad .
Perhaps now he could give them warning .
Up the middle of the Big River , flying just above the water , swept the flock with Dusky at its head .
How swiftly they flew , those nine big birds !
Blacky envied them their swift wings .
On past the hidden hunter but far out over the Big River they swept .
For just a minute Blacky thought they were going on up the river and not coming in to eat , after all .
Then they turned toward the other shore , swept around in a circle and headed straight in toward that hidden hunter .
Blacky glanced at him and saw that he was ready to shoot .
Almost without thinking , Blacky spread his wings and started out from that tree .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
he shrieked at the top of his lungs .
`` Caw , caw , caw , caw , caw ! ''
It was his danger cry that everybody on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest knows .
Instantly Dusky turned and began to climb up , up , up , the other Ducks following him until , as they passed over the hidden hunter , they were so high it was useless for him to shoot .
He did put up his gun and aim at them , but he did n't shoot .
You see , he did n't want to frighten them so that they would not return .
Then the flock turned and started off in the direction from which they had come , and in a few minutes they were merely a black line disappearing far down the Big River .
Blacky headed straight for the Green Forest , chuckling as he flew .
He knew that those Ducks would not return until after dark .
He had saved them this time , and he was so happy he did n't even notice the Black Shadows .
And the hunter stood up and shook his fist at Blacky the Crow .
CHAPTER XXIII : Blacky Calls Farmer Brown 's Boy Blacky awoke in the best of spirits .
Late the afternoon before he had saved Dusky the Black Duck and his flock from a hunter with a terrible gun .
He was n't quite sure whether he was most happy in having saved those Ducks by warning them just in time , or in having spoiled the plans of that hunter .
He hates a hunter with a terrible gun , does Blacky .
For that matter , so do all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
So Blacky started out for his breakfast in high spirits .
After breakfast , he flew over to the Big River to see if Dusky the Black Duck was feeding in the rushes along the shore .
Dusky was n't , and Blacky guessed that he and his flock had been so frightened by that warning that they had kept away from there the night before .
`` But they 'll come back after a night or so , '' muttered Blacky , as he alighted in the top of a tree , the same tree from which he had watched the hunter the afternoon before .
`` They 'll come back , and so will that hunter .
If he sees me around again , he 'll try to shoot me .
I 've done all I can do .
Anyway , Dusky ought to have sense enough to be suspicious of this place after that warning .
Hello , who is that ?
I do believe it is Farmer Brown 's boy .
I wish he would come over here .
If he should find out about that hunter , perhaps he would do something to drive him away .
I 'll see if I can call him over here . ''
Blacky began to call in the way he does when he has discovered something and wants others to know about it .
`` Caw , caw , caaw , caaw , caw , caw , caaw ! ''
screamed Blacky , as if greatly excited .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy , having no work to do that morning , had started for a tramp over the Green Meadows , hoping to see some of his little friends in feathers and fur .
He heard the excited cawing of Blacky and at once turned in that direction .
`` That black rascal has found something over on the shore of the Big River , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy to himself .
`` I 'll go over there to see what it is .
There is n't much escapes the sharp eyes of that black busybody .
He has led me to a lot of interesting things , one time and another .
There he is on the top of that tree over by the Big River . ''
As Farmer Brown 's boy drew near , Blacky flew down and disappeared below the bank .
Fanner Brown 's boy chuckled .
`` Whatever it is , it is right down there , '' he muttered .
He walked forward rapidly but quietly , and presently he reached the edge of the bank .
Up flew Blacky cawing wildly , and pretending to be scared half to death .
Again Farmer Brown 's boy chuckled .
`` You 're just making believe , '' he declared .
`` You 're trying to make me believe that I have surprised you , when all the time you knew I was coming and have been waiting for me .
Now , what have you found over here ? ''
He looked eagerly along the shore , and at once he saw a row of low bushes close to the edge of the water .
He knew what it was instantly .
`` A Duck blind ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` A hunter has built a blind over here from which to shoot Ducks .
I wonder if he has killed any yet .
I hope not . ''
He went down to the blind , for that is what a Duck hunter 's hiding-place is called , and looked about .
A couple of grains of corn just inside the blind caught his eyes , and his face darkened .
`` That fellow has been baiting Ducks , '' thought he .
`` He has been putting out corn to get them to come here regularly .
My , how I hate that sort of thing !
It is bad enough to hunt them fairly , but to feed them and then kill them -- ugh !
I wonder if he has shot any yet . ''
He looked all about keenly , and his face cleared .
He knew that if that hunter had killed any Ducks , there would be tell-tale feathers in the blind , and there were none .
CHAPTER XXIV : Farmer Brown 's Boy Does Some Thinking Farmer Brown 's boy sat on the bank of the Big River in a brown study .
That means that he was thinking very hard .
Blacky the Crow sat in the top of a tall tree a short distance away and watched him .
Blacky was silent now , and there was a knowing look in his shrewd little eyes .
In calling Farmer Brown 's boy over there , he had done all he could , and he was quite satisfied to leave the matter to Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` A hunter has made that blind to shoot Black Ducks from , '' thought Farmer Brown 's boy , `` and he has been baiting them in here by scattering corn for them .
Black Ducks are about the smartest Ducks that fly , but if they have been coming in here every evening and finding corn and no sign of danger , they probably think it perfectly safe here and come straight in without being at all suspicious .
To-night , or some night soon , that hunter will be waiting for them .
`` I guess the law that permits hunting Ducks is all right , but there ought to be a law against baiting them in .
That is n't hunting .
No , Sir , that is n't hunting .
If this land were my father 's , I would know what to do .
I would put up a sign saying that this was private property and no shooting was allowed .
But it is n't my father 's land , and that hunter has a perfect right to shoot here .
He has just as much right here as I have .
I wish I could stop him , but I do n't see how I can . ''
A frown puckered the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
You see , he was thinking very hard , and when he does that he is very apt to frown .
`` I suppose , '' he muttered , `` I can tear down his blind .
He would n't know who did it .
But that would n't do much good ; he would build another .
Besides , it would n't be right .
He has a perfect right to make a blind here , and having made it , it is his and I have n't any right to touch it .
I wo n't do a thing I have n't a right to do .
That would n't be honest .
I 've got to think of some other way of saving those Ducks . ''
The frown on his freckled face grew deeper , and for a long time he sat without moving .
Suddenly his face cleared , and he jumped to his feet .
He began to chuckle .
`` I have it ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` I 'll do a little shooting myself ! ''
Then he chuckled again and started for home .
Presently he began to whistle , a way he has when he is in good spirits .
Blacky the Crow watched him go , and Blacky was well satisfied .
He did n't know what Farmer Brown 's boy was planning to do , but he had a feeling that he was planning to do something , and that all would be well .
Perhaps Blacky would n't have felt so sure could he have understood what Farmer Brown 's boy had said about doing a little shooting himself .
As it was , Blacky flew off about his own business , quite satisfied that now all would be well , and he need worry no more about those Ducks .
None of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows knew Farmer Brown 's boy better than did Blacky the Crow .
None knew better than he that Farmer Brown 's boy was their best friend .
`` It is all right now , '' chuckled Blacky .
`` It is all right now . ''
And as the cheery whistle of Farmer Brown 's boy floated back to him on the Merry Little Breezes , he repeated it : `` It is all right now . ''
CHAPTER XXV : Blacky Gets A Dreadful Shock When friends prove false , whom may we trust ?
The springs of faith are turned to dust .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Blacky the Crow was in the top of his favorite tree over near the Big River early this afternoon .
He did n't know what was going to happen , but he felt in his bones that something was , and he meant to be on hand to see .
For a long time he sat there , seeing nothing unusual .
At last he spied a tiny figure far away across the Green Meadows .
Even at that distance he knew who it was ; it was Farmer Brown 's boy , and he was coming toward the Big River .
`` I thought as much , '' chuckled Blacky .
`` He is coming over here to drive that hunter away . ''
The tiny figure grew larger .
It was Farmer Brown 's boy beyond a doubt .
Suddenly Blacky 's eyes opened so wide that they looked as if they were in danger of popping out of his head .
He had discovered that Farmer Brown 's boy was carrying something and that that something was a gun !
Yes , Sir , Farmer Brown 's boy was carrying a terrible gun !
If Blacky could have rubbed his eyes , he would have done so , just to make sure that there was nothing the matter with them .
`` A gun ! ''
croaked Blacky .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy with a terrible gun !
What does it mean ? ''
Nearer came Farmer Brown 's boy , and Blacky could see that terrible gun plainly now .
Suddenly an idea popped into his head .
`` Perhaps he is going to shoot that hunter ! ''
thought Blacky , and somehow he felt better .
Farmer Brown 's boy reached the Big River at a point some distance below the blind built by the hunter .
He laid his gun down on the bank and went down to the edge of the water .
The rushes grew very thick there , and for a while Farmer Brown 's boy was very busy among them .
Blacky from his high perch could watch him , and as he watched , he grew more and more puzzled .
It looked very much as if Farmer Brown 's boy was building a blind much like that of the hunter 's .
At last he carried an old log down there , got his gun , and sat down just as the hunter had done in his blind the afternoon before .
He was quite hidden there , excepting from a place high up like Blacky 's perch .
`` I -- I -- I do believe he is going to try to shoot those Ducks himself , '' gasped Blacky .
`` I would n't have believed it if any one had told me .
No , Sir , I would n't have believed it .
I -- I -- ca n't believe it now .
Farmer Brown 's boy hunting with a terrible gun !
Yet I 've got to believe my own eyes . ''
A noise up river caught his attention .
It was the noise of oars in a boat .
There was the hunter , rowing down the Big River .
Just as he had done the day before , he came ashore above his blind and walked down to it .
`` This is no place for me , '' muttered Blacky .
`` He 'll remember that I scared those Ducks yesterday , and as likely as not he 'll try to shoot me . ''
Blacky spread his black wings and hurriedly left the tree-top , heading for another tree farther back on the Green Meadows where he would be safe , but from which he could not see as well .
There he sat until the Black Shadows warned him that it was high time for him to be getting back to the Green Forest .
He had to hurry , for it was later than usual , and he was afraid to be out after dark .
Just as he reached the Green Forest he heard a faint `` bang , bang '' from over by the Big River , and he knew that it came from the place where Farmer Brown 's boy was hiding in the rushes .
`` It is true , '' croaked Blacky .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy has turned hunter . ''
It was such a dreadful shock to Blacky that it was a long time before he could go to sleep .
CHAPTER XXVI : Why The Hunter Got No Ducks The hunter who had come down the Big River in a boat and landed near the place where Dusky the Black Duck and his flock had found nice yellow corn scattered in the rushes night after night saw Blacky the Crow leave the top of a certain tree as he approached .
`` It is well for you that you did n't wait for me to get nearer , '' said the hunter .
`` You are smart enough to know that you ca n't play the same trick on me twice .
You frightened those Ducks away last night , but if you try it again , you 'll be shot as surely as your coat is black . ''
Then the hunter went to his blind which , you know , was the hiding-place he had made of bushes and rushes , and behind this he sat down with his terrible gun to wait and watch for Dusky the Black Duck and his flock .
Now you remember that farther along the shore of the Big River was Farmer Brown 's boy , hiding in a blind he had made that afternoon .
The hunter could n't see him at all .
He did n't have the least idea that any one else was anywhere near .
`` With that Crow out of the way , I think I will get some Ducks to-night , '' thought the hunter and looked at his gun to make sure that it was ready .
Over in the West , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun started to go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows came creeping out .
Far down the Big River the hunter saw a swiftly moving black line just above the water .
`` Here they come , '' he muttered , as he eagerly watched that black line draw nearer .
Twice those big black birds circled around over the Big River opposite where the hunter was crouching behind his blind .
It was plain that Dusky , their leader , remembered Blacky 's warning the night before .
But this time there was no warning .
Everything appeared safe .
Once more the flock circled and then headed straight for that place where they hoped to find more corn .
The hunter crouched lower .
They were almost near enough for him to shoot when `` bang , bang '' went a gun a short distance away .
Instantly Dusky and his flock turned and on swift wings swung off and up the river .
If ever there was a disappointed hunter , it was the one crouching in that blind .
`` Somebody else is hunting , and he spoiled my shot that time , '' he muttered .
`` He must have a blind farther down .
Probably some other Ducks I did n't see came in to him .
I wonder if he got them .
Here 's hoping that next time those Ducks come in here first . ''
He once more made himself comfortable and settled down for a long wait .
The Black Shadows crept out from the farther bank of the Big River .
Jolly , round red Mr. Sun had gone to bed , and the first little star was twinkling high overhead .
It was very still and peaceful .
From out in the middle of the Big River sounded a low `` quack '' ; Dusky and his flock were swimming in this time .
Presently the hunter could see a silver line on the water , and then he made out nine black spots .
In a few minutes those Ducks would be where he could shoot them .
`` Bang , bang '' went that gun below him again .
With a roar of wings , Dusky and his flock were in the air and away .
That hunter stood up and said things , and they were not nice things .
He knew that those Ducks would not come back again that night , and that once more he must go home empty-handed .
But first he would find out who that other hunter was and what luck he had had , so he tramped down the shore to where that gun had seemed to be .
He found the blind of Farmer Brown 's boy , but there was no one there .
You see , as soon as he had fired his gun the last time , Farmer Brown 's boy had slipped out and away .
And as he tramped across the Green Meadows toward home with his gun , he chuckled .
`` He did n't get those Ducks this time , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy .
CHAPTER XXVII : The Hunter Gives Up Blacky The Crow did n't know what to think .
He could n't make himself believe that Farmer Brown 's boy had really turned hunter , yet what else could he believe ?
Had n't he with his own eyes seen Farmer Brown 's boy with a terrible gun hide in rushes along the Big River and wait for Dusky the Black Duck and his flock to come in ?
And had n't he with his own ears heard the `` bang , bang '' of that very gun ?
The very first thing the next morning Blacky had hastened over to the place where Farmer Brown 's boy had hidden in the rushes .
With sharp eyes he looked for feathers , that would tell the tale of a Duck killed .
But there were no feathers .
There was n't a thing to show that anything so dreadful had happened .
Perhaps Farmer Brown 's boy had missed when he shot at those Ducks .
Blacky shook his head and decided to say nothing to anybody about Farmer Brown 's boy and that terrible gun .
You may be sure that early in the afternoon he was perched in the top of his favorite tree over by the Big River .
His heart sank , just as on the afternoon before , when he saw Farmer Brown 's boy with his terrible gun trudging across the Green Meadows to the Big River .
Instead of going to the same hiding place he made a new one farther down .
Then came the hunter a little earlier than usual .
Instead of stopping at his blind , he walked straight to the blind Farmer Brown 's boy had first made .
Of course , there was no one there .
The hunter looked both glad and disappointed .
He went back to his own blind and sat down , and while he watched for the coming of the Ducks , he also watched that other blind to see if the unknown hunter of the night before would appear .
Of course he did n't , and when at last the hunter saw the Ducks coming , he was sure that this time he would get some of them .
But the same thing happened as on the night before .
Just as those Ducks were almost near enough , a gun went `` bang , bang , '' and away went the Ducks .
They did n't come back again , and once more a disappointed hunter went home without any .
The next afternoon he was on hand very early .
He was there before Farmer Brown 's boy arrived , and when he did come , of course the hunter saw him .
He walked down to where Farmer Brown 's boy was hiding in the rushes .
`` Hello ! ''
said he .
`` Are you the one who was shooting here last night and the night before ? ''
Farmer Brown 's boy grinned .
`` Yes , '' said he .
`` What luck did you have ? ''
asked the hunter .
`` Fine , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` How many Ducks did you get ? ''
asked the hunter .
Farmer Brown 's boy grinned more broadly than before .
`` None , '' said he .
`` I guess I 'm not a very good shot . ''
`` Then what did you mean by saying you had fine luck ? ''
demanded the hunter .
`` Oh , '' replied Farmer Brown 's boy , `` I had the luck to see those Ducks and the fun of shooting , '' and he grinned again .
The hunter lost patience .
He tried to order Farmer Brown 's boy away .
But the latter said he had as much right there as the hunter had , and the hunter knew that this was so .
Finally he gave up , and muttering angrily , he went back to his blind .
Again the gun of Farmer Brown 's boy frightened away the Ducks just as they were coming in .
The next afternoon there was no hunter nor the next , though Farmer Brown 's boy was there .
The hunter had decided that it was a waste of time to hunt there while Farmer Brown 's boy was about .
CHAPTER XXVIII : Blacky Has A Talk With Dusky The Black Duck Doubt not a friend , but to the last Grip hard on faith and hold it fast .
-- Blacky the Crow .
Every morning Blacky the Crow visited the rushes along the shore of the Big River , hoping to find Dusky the Black Duck .
He was anxious , was Blacky .
He feared that Dusky or some of his flock had been killed , and he wanted to know .
You see , he knew that Farmer Brown 's boy had been shooting over there .
At last , early one morning , he found Dusky and his flock in the rushes and wild rice .
Eagerly he counted them .
There were nine .
Not one was missing .
Blacky sighed with relief and dropped down on the shore close to where Dusky was taking a nap .
`` Hello ! ''
said Blacky .
Dusky awoke with a start .
`` Hello , yourself , '' said he .
`` I 've heard a terrible gun banging over here , and I was afraid you or some of your flock had been shot , '' said Blacky .
`` We have n't lost a feather , '' declared Dusky .
`` That gun was n't fired at us , anyway . ''
`` Then who was it fired at ? ''
demanded Blacky .
`` I have n't the least idea , '' replied Dusky .
`` Have you seen any other Ducks about here ? ''
inquired Blacky .
`` Not one , '' was Dusky 's prompt reply .
`` If there had been any , I guess we would have known it . ''
`` Did you know that when that terrible gun was fired there was another terrible gun right over behind those bushes ? ''
asked Blacky .
Dusky shook his head .
`` No , '' said he , `` but I learned long ago that where there is one terrible gun there is likely to be more , and so when I heard that one bang , I led my flock away from here in a hurry .
We did n't want to take any chances . ''
`` It is a lucky thing you did , '' replied Blacky .
`` There was a hunter hiding behind those bushes all the time .
I warned you of him once . ''
`` That reminds me that I have n't thanked you , '' said Dusky .
`` I knew there was something wrong over here , but I did n't know what .
So it was a hunter .
I guess it is a good thing that I heeded your warn-ing . ''
`` I guess it is , '' retorted Blacky dryly .
`` Do you come here in daytime instead of night now ? ''
`` No , '' replied Dusky .
`` We come in after dark and spend the night here .
There is nothing to fear from hunters after dark .
We 've given up coming here until late in the evening .
And since we did that , we have n't heard a gun . ''
Blacky gossiped a while longer , then flew off to look for his breakfast ; and as he flew his heart was light .
His shrewd little eyes twinkled .
`` I ought to have known Farmer Brown 's boy better than even to suspect him , '' thought he .
`` I know now why he had that terrible gun .
It was to frighten those Ducks away so that the hunter would not have a chance to shoot them .
He was n't shooting at anything .
He just fired in the air to scare those Ducks away .
I know it just as well as if I had seen him do it .
I 'll never doubt Farmer Brown 's boy again .
And I 'm glad I did n't say a word to anybody about seeing him with a terrible gun . ''
Blacky was right .
Farmer Brown 's boy had taken that way of making sure that the hunter who had first baited those Ducks with yellow corn scattered in the rushes in front of his hiding place should have no chance to kill any of them .
While appearing to be an enemy , he really had been a friend of Dusky the Black Duck and his flock .
CHAPTER XXIX : Blacky Discovers An Egg Blacky is fond of eggs , as you know .
In this he is a great deal like other people , Farmer Brown 's boy for instance .
But as Blacky can not keep hens , as Farmer Brown 's boy does , he is obliged to steal eggs or else go without .
If you come right down to plain , everyday truth , I suppose Blacky is n't so far wrong when he insists that he is no more of a thief than Farmer Brown 's boy .
Blacky says that the eggs which the bens lay belong to the hens , and that he , Blacky has just as much right to take them as Farmer Brown 's boy .
He quite overlooks the fact that Farmer Brown 's boy feeds the biddies and takes the eggs as pay .
Anyway , that is what Farmer Brown 's boy says , but I do not know whether or not the biddies understand it that way .
So Blacky the Crow can not see why he should not help himself to an egg when he gets the chance .
He does n't get the chance very often to steal eggs from the hens , because usually they lay their eggs in the henhouse , and Blacky is too suspicious to venture inside .
The eggs he does get are mostly those of his neighbors in the Green Forest and the Old Orchard .
But once in a great while some foolish hen will make a nest outside the henhouse somewhere , and if Blacky happens to find it the black scamp watches every minute he can spare from other mischief for a chance to steal an egg .
Now Blacky knows just what a rogue Farmer Brown 's boy thinks he is , and for this reason Blacky is very careful about approaching Farmer Brown or any other man until he has made sure that he runs no risk of being shot .
Blacky knows quite as well as any one what a gun looks like .
He also knows that without a terrible gun , there is little Farmer Brown or any one else can do to him .
So when he sees Farmer Brown out in his fields , Blacky often will fly right over him and shout `` Caw , caw , caw , ca-a-w ! ''
in the most provoking way , and Fanner Brown 's boy insists that he has seen Blacky wink when he was doing it .
But Blacky does n't do anything of this kind around the buildings of Farmer Brown .
You see , he has learned that there are doors and windows in buildings , and out of one of these a terrible gun may bang at any time .
Though he has suspected that Farmer Brown 's boy would not now try to harm him , Blacky is naturally cautious and takes no chances .
So when he comes spying around Farmer Brown 's house and barn , he does it when he is quite sure that no one is about , and he makes no noise about it .
First he sits in a tall tree from which he can watch Farmer Brown 's home .
When he is quite sure that the way is clear , he flies over to the Old Orchard , and from there he inspects the barnyard , never once making a sound .
If he is quite sure that no one is about , he sometimes drops down into the henyard and helps himself to corn , if any happens to be there .
It was on one of these silent visits that Blacky spied something which he could n't forget .
It was a box just inside the henhouse door .
In the box was some hay and in that hay he was sure that he had seen an egg .
In fact , he was sure that he saw two eggs there .
He might not have noticed them but for the fact that a hen had jumped down from that box , making a terrible fuss .
She did n't seem frightened , but very proud .
What under the sun she had to be proud about Blacky could n't understand , but he did n't stay to find out .
The noise she was making made him nervous .
He was afraid that it would bring some one to find out what was going on .
So he spread his black wings and flew away as silently as he had come .
As he was flying away he saw those eggs .
You see , as he rose into the air , he managed to pass that open door in such a way that he could glance in .
That one glance was enough .
You know Blacky 's eyes are very sharp .
He saw the hay in the box and the two eggs in the hay , and that was enough for him .
From that instant Blacky the Crow began to scheme and plan to get one or both of those eggs .
It seemed to him that he never , never , had wanted anything quite so much , and he was sure that he would not and could not be happy until he succeeded in getting one .
CHAPTER XXX : Blacky Screws Up His Courage If out of sight , then out of mind .
This is a saying which you often hear .
It may be true sometimes , but it is very far from true at other times .
Take the case of Blacky .
He had had only a glance into that nest just inside the door of Farmer Brown 's henhouse , but that glance had been enough to show him two eggs there .
Then , as he flew away toward the Green Forest , those eggs were out of sight , of course .
But do you think they were out of mind ?
Not much !
No , indeed !
In fact , those eggs were very much in Blacky 's mind .
He could n't think of anything else .
He flew straight to a certain tall pine-tree in a lonely part of the Green Forest .
Whenever Blacky wants to think or to plan mischief , he seeks that particular tree , and in the shelter of its broad branches he keeps out of sight of curious eyes , and there he sits as still as still can be .
`` I want one of those eggs , '' muttered Blacky , as he settled himself in comfort on a certain particular spot on a certain particular branch of that tall pine-tree .
Indeed , that particular branch might well be called the `` mischief branch , '' for on it Blacky has thought out and planned most of the mischief he is so famous for .
`` Yes , sir , '' he continued , `` I want one of those eggs , and what is more , I am going to have one . ''
He half closed his eyes and tipped his head back and swallowed a couple of times , as if he already tasted one of those eggs .
`` There is more in one of those eggs than in a whole nestful of Welcome Robin 's eggs .
It is a very long time since I have been lucky enough to taste a hen 's egg , and now is my chance .
I do n't like having to go inside that henhouse , even though it is barely inside the door .
I 'm suspicious of doors .
They have a way of closing most unexpectedly .
I might see if I can not get Unc ' Billy Possum to bring one of those eggs out for me .
But that plan wo n't do , come to think of it , because I ca n't trust Unc ' Billy .
The old sinner is too fond of eggs himself .
I would be willing to divide with him , but he would be sure to eat his first , and I fear that it would taste so good that he would eat the other .
No .
I 've got to get one of those eggs myself .
It is the only way I can be sure of it .
`` The thing to do is to make sure that Farmer Brown 's boy and Farmer Brown himself are nowhere about .
They ought to be down in the cornfield pretty soon .
With them down there , I have only to watch my chance and slip in .
It wo n't take but a second .
Just a little courage , Blacky , just a little courage !
Nothing in this world worth having is gained without some risk .
The thing to do is to make sure that the risk is as small as possible . ''
Blacky shook out his feathers and then flew out of the tall pine-tree as silently as he had flown into it .
He headed straight toward Farmer Brown 's cornfield .
When he was near enough to see all over the field , he dropped down to the top of a fence post , and there he waited .
He did n't have long to wait .
In fact , he had been there but a few minutes when he spied two people coming down the Long Lane toward the cornfield .
He looked at them sharply , and then gave a little sigh of satisfaction .
They were Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy .
Presently they reached the cornfield and turned into it .
Then they went to work , and Blacky knew that so far as they were concerned , the way was clear for him to visit the henyard .
He did n't fly straight there .
Oh , my , no !
Blacky is too clever to do anything like that .
He flew toward the Green Forest .
When he knew that he was out of sight of those in the cornfield , he turned and flew over to the Old Orchard , and from the top of one of the old apple-trees he studied the henyard and the barnyard and Farmer Brown 's house and the barn , to make absolutely sure that there was no danger near .
When he was quite sure , he silently flew down into the henyard as he had done many times before .
He pretended to be looking for scattered grains of corn , but all the time he was edging nearer and nearer to the open door of the henhouse .
At last he could see the box with the hay in it .
He walked right up to the open door and peered inside .
There was nothing to be afraid of that he could see .
Still he hesitated .
He did hate to go inside that door , even for a minute , and that is all it would take to fly up to that nest and get one of those eggs .
Blacky closed his eyes for just a second , and when he did that he seemed to see himself eating one of those eggs .
`` What are you afraid of ? ''
he muttered to himself as he opened his eyes .
Then with a hurried look in all directions , he flew up to the edge of the box .
There lay the two eggs !
CHAPTER XXXI : An Egg That Would n't Behave If you had an egg and it would n't behave Just what would you do with that egg , may I ask ?
To make an egg do what it do n't want to do Strikes me like a difficult sort of a task .
All of which is pure nonsense .
Of course .
Who ever heard of an egg either behaving or misbehaving ?
Nobody .
That is , nobody that I know , unless it be Blacky .
It is best not to mention eggs in Blacky 's presence these days .
They are a forbidden topic when he is about .
Blacky is apt to be a little resentful at the mere mention of an egg .
I do n't know as I wholly blame him .
How would you feel if you knew you knew all there was to know about a thing , and then found out that you did n't know anything at all ?
Well , that is the way it is with Blacky the Crow .
If any one had told Blacky that he did n't know all there is to know about eggs , he would have laughed at the idea .
Was n't he , Blacky , hatched from an egg himself ?
And had n't he , ever since he was big enough , hunted eggs and stolen eggs and eaten eggs ?
If he did n't know about eggs , who did ?
That is the way he would have talked before his visit to Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
It is since then that it has been unwise to mention eggs .
When Blacky saw the two eggs in the nest in Farmer Brown 's henhouse how Blacky did wish that he could take both .
But he could n't .
One would be all that he could manage .
He must take his choice and go away while the going was good .
Which should he take ?
It often happens in this life that things which seem to be unimportant , mere trifles in themselves , prove to be just the opposite .
Now , so far as Blacky could see , it did n't make the least difference which egg he took , excepting that one was a little bigger than the other .
As a matter of fact , it made all the difference in the world .
One was brown and very good to look at .
The other , the larger of the two , was white and also very good to look at .
In fact , Blacky thought it the better of the two to look at , for it was very smooth and shiny .
So , partly on this account , and partly because it was the largest , Blacky chose the white egg .
He seized it in his claws and started to fly with it , but somehow he could not seem to get a good grip on it .
He fluttered to the ground just outside the door , and there he got a better grip .
Just as old Dandy-cock the Rooster , with head down and all the feathers on his neck standing out with anger , came charging at him , Blacky rose into the air and started over the Old Orchard toward the Green Forest .
Never had Blacky felt more like cawing at the top of his lungs .
You see , he felt that he had been very smart , and I suspect that he also felt that he had been very brave .
He would have liked to boast a little .
But he did n't .
He wisely held his tongue .
It would be time enough to do his boasting after he had reached a place of safety and had eaten that egg .
He was halfway across the Old Orchard when he felt that egg beginning to slip .
Now at best it is n't easy to carry an egg without breaking it .
You know how very careful you have to be .
Just imagine how Blacky felt when that egg began to slip .
Do what he would , he could n't get a better grip on it .
It slipped a wee bit more .
Blacky started down towards the ground .
But he was n't quick enough .
Striped Chipmunk , watching Blacky from the old stone wall , saw something white drop from Blacky 's claws .
He saw Blacky dash after it and clutch at it only to miss it .
Then the white thing struck a branch of an old apple tree , bounced off and fell to the ground .
Blacky followed it .
Striped Chipmunk stole very softly through the grass to see what Blacky was doing .
Blacky was standing close beside a white thing that looked very much like an egg .
He was looking at it with the queerest expression .
Now and then he would reach out and rap it sharply with his bill , and then look as if he did n't know what to make of it .
He did n't .
That egg was n't behaving right .
It should have broken when it hit the branch of the apple tree .
Certainly it should have broken when he struck it that way with his bill .
However was he to eat that egg , if he could n't break the shell ?
Blacky did n't know .
CHAPTER XXXII : What Blacky Did With The Stolen Egg Blacky was puzzled .
He did n't know what to make of that egg he had stolen from Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
It was n't like any egg he ever had seen or even heard of .
It was a beautiful-looking egg , and he had been sure that it would taste as good , quite as good as it looked .
Even now he was n't sure that if he could only taste it , it would be all that he had hoped .
But how could he taste it , when he could n't break that shell ?
He never had heard of such a shell .
He doubted if anybody else ever had , either .
He had hammered at it with his stout bill until he was afraid that he would break that , instead of the egg .
The more he tried to break into it and could n't , the hungrier he grew , and the more certain that nothing else in all the world could possibly taste so good .
But the Old Orchard was not the place for him to work on that egg .
In the first place , it was too near Farmer Brown 's house .
This made Blacky uneasy .
You see , he had something of a guilty conscience .
Not that he felt at all a sense of having done wrong .
To his way of thinking , if he were smart enough to get that egg , he had just as much right to it as any one else , particularly Farmer Brown 's boy .
Yet he was n't at all sure that Farmer Brown 's boy would look at the matter quite that way .
In fact , he had a feeling that Farmer Brown 's boy would call him a thief if he should be discovered with that egg .
Then , too , there were too many sharp eyes in the Old Orchard .
He wanted to get away where he could be sure of being alone .
Then if he could n't break that shell , no one would be the wiser .
So he picked up the egg and flew straight over to the Green Forest , and this time he managed to get there without dropping it .
Now you would never suspect Blacky the Crow , he of the sharp wits and crafty ways , of being amused by bright things , would you ?
But he is .
In fact , Blacky is quite like a little child in this matter .
Anything that is bright and shiny interests Blacky right away .
If he finds anything of this kind , he will take it away to a certain secret place , and there he will admire it and play with it and finally hide it .
If I did n't know that it is n't so , because it could n't possibly be so , I should think that Blacky was some relation to certain small boys I know .
Always their pockets are filled with all sorts of useless odds and ends which they have picked up here and there .
Blacky has no pockets , so he keeps his treasures of this kind in a secret hiding-place , a sort of treasure storehouse .
He visits this secretly every day , uncovers his treasures , and gloats over them and plays with them , then carefully covers them up again .
First Blacky took this egg over near his home , and there he once more tried and tried and tried to break the shell .
But the shell would n't break , not even when Blacky quite lost his temper and hammered at it for all he was worth .
Then he gave the thing up as a bad matter and flew up to his favorite roost in the top of a tall pine-tree , leaving the egg on the ground .
But from where he sat on his favorite roost in the tall pine-tree he could see that provoking egg , a little spot of shining white .
When a Jolly Little Sunbeam found it and rested on it , it was so very bright and shiny that Blacky could n't keep his eyes off it .
Little by little he forgot that it was an egg .
At least , he forgot that he wanted to eat it .
He began to find pleasure in just looking at it .
It might not satisfy his stomach , but it certainly was very satisfying to his eyes .
He forgot to think of it as a thing to eat , but began to think of it wholly as a thing to look at and admire .
He was glad he had n't been able to break that shell .
Once more he spread his black wings and flew down to the egg .
He cocked his head to one side and looked at it .
He cocked his head to the other side and looked at it .
He walked all around it , chuckling and saying to himself , `` Pretty , pretty , pretty , pretty and all mine , mine , mine , mine !
Pretty , pretty , and all mine ! ''
Than he craftily looked all about to make sure that no one was watching him .
Having made quite sure , he rolled the egg over and turned it around and admired it to his heart 's content .
At last he picked it up and carried it to his treasure-house and covered it over very carefully .
And there that china nest-egg , for that is what he had stolen , is still his chief treasure to this day , and Blacky still sometimes wonders what kind of a hen laid such a hard-shelled egg .
Blacky has had very many other adventures , but it would take another book to tell about all of them .
That would be hardly fair to some of the other little people who also have had adventures and want them told to you .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Bowser_The_Hound.txt.out
CHAPTER I OLD MAN COYOTE LEADS BOWSER AWAY Though great or small the matter prove Be faithful in whate'er you do .
'T is thus and only thus you may To others and yourself be true .
Bowser the Hound .
Old Man Coyote is full of tricks .
People with such clever wits as his usually are full of tricks .
On the other hand Bowser the Hound is n't tricky at all .
He just goes straight ahead with the thing he has to do and does it in the most earnest way .
Not being tricky himself , he sometimes forgets to watch out for tricks in others .
One day he found the fresh trail of Old Man Coyote and made up his mind that he would run down Old Man Coyote if he had to run his legs off to do it .
He always makes up his mind like that whenever he starts out to hunt .
You know there is nothing in the world Bowser enjoys quite so much as to hunt some one who will give him a long , hard run .
Any time he will go without eating for the pleasure of chasing Reddy or Granny Fox , or Old Man Coyote .
Now Old Man Coyote was annoyed .
He was and he was n't afraid of Bowser the Hound .
That is to say he was afraid to fight Bowser , but he was n't afraid to be hunted by Bowser , because he was so sure that he was smart enough to get away from Bowser .
If Bowser had appeared at almost any other time Old Man Coyote would n't have been so annoyed .
But to have Bowser appear just then made him angry clear through .
You see he had just started out to get his dinner .
`` What business has that good-for-nothing dog over here anyway , I 'd like to know , '' he muttered , as he ran swiftly through the Green Forest .
`` What right has he to meddle in other folks ' business ?
I 'll just teach that fellow a lesson ; that 's what I 'll do !
I 'll teach him that he ca n't interfere with me not be sorry for it . ''
So Old Man Coyote ran and ran and ran , and never once did he try to break his trail .
In fact , he took pains to leave a trail that Bowser could follow easily .
After him Bowser ran and ran and ran , and all the time his great voice rang out joyously .
This was the kind of a hunt he loved .
Out of the Green Forest into the Old Pasture , Old Man Coyote led Bowser the Hound .
Across the Old Pasture and out on the other side they raced .
Farther and farther away from home Old Man Coyote led Bowser the Hound .
Instead of circling back as usual , he kept on .
Bowser kept on after him .
By and by he was in strange country , country he had never visited before .
He did n't notice this .
He did n't notice anything but the splendid trail Old Man Coyote was making .
He did n't even realize that he was getting tired .
Always in his nose was the tantalizing scent of Old Man Coyote .
Bowser was sure that this time he would catch this fellow who had fooled him so often before .
CHAPTER II OLD MAN COYOTE PLAYS A TRICK Of people who play tricks beware , Lest they may get you in a snare .
You can not trust them , so watch out Whenever one may be about .
Bowser the Hound .
There is such a thing as being too much interested in the thing you are doing .
That is the way accidents very often happen .
A person will get so interested in something that he will be blind and deaf to everything else , and so will walk straight into danger or trouble of some kind .
Now just take the case of Bowser the Hound .
Bowser was so interested in the chase of Old Man Coyote that he paid no attention whatever to anything but the warm scent of Old Man Coyote which the latter was taking pains to leave .
Bowser ran with his nose in Old Man Coyote 's tracks and never looked either to left or right .
He would lift his head only to look straight ahead in the hope of seeing Old Man Coyote .
Then down would go his nose again to follow that scent .
So Bowser did n't notice that Old Man Coyote was leading him far , far away from home into country with which he was quite unacquainted .
Bowser has a great , deep , wonderful voice which can be heard a very long distance when he bays on the tracks of some one he is hunting .
It can be heard a very long distance indeed .
But far as it can be heard , Bowser was far , far beyond hearing distance from Farmer Brown 's house before Old Man Coyote began to even think of playing one of his clever tricks in order to make Bowser lose his scent .
You see , Old Man Coyote intended to lead Bowser into strange country and there lose him , hoping that he would not be able to find the way home .
Old Man Coyote is himself a tireless runner .
He is not so heavy as is Bowser , so does not tire as easily .
Then , too , he had not wasted his breath as had Bowser with his steady baying .
Old Man Coyote could tell by the sound of Bowser 's voice when the latter was beginning to grow tired , and he could tell by the fact that he often had a moment or two to sit down and rest before Bowser got dangerously near .
So at last Old Man Coyote decided that the time had come to play a trick .
By and by he came to a river .
At that point there was a high , overhanging bank .
On the very edge of this bank Old Man Coyote made a long leap to one side .
Then he made another long leap to the big trunk of a fallen tree .
He ran along this and from the end of it made still another long leap , as long a leap as he could .
Then he hid in a little thicket to see what would happen .
CHAPTER III WHAT HAPPENED TO BOWSER When a Coyote seems most honest , watch him closest .
Bowser the Hound .
Bowser was very , very tired .
He would n't admit it even to himself , for when he is hunting he will keep on until he drops if his wonderful nose can still catch the scent of the one he is following .
Bowser is wonderfully persistent .
So , though he was very , very tired , he kept his nose to the ground and tried to run even faster , for the scent of Old Man Coyote was so strong that Bowser felt sure he would soon catch him .
Bowser did n't look to see where he was going .
He did n't care .
It was enough for him to know that Old Man Coyote had gone that way , and where Old Man Coyote could go Bowser felt sure he could follow .
So , still baying with all his might and making the hills ring with the sound of his great voice , Bowser kept on .
Hidden in a little thicket , stretched out so that he might rest better , Old Man Coyote listened to that great voice drawing nearer and nearer .
There was a wicked grin on Old Man Coyote 's face , and in his yellow eyes a look of great eagerness .
In a few minutes Bowser came in sight , his nose in the trail Old Man Coyote had left .
Into Bowser 's voice crept a new note of eagerness as his nose picked up the scent stronger than ever .
Straight on he raced and it seemed as if he had gained new strength .
His whole thought was on just one thing -- catching Old Man Coyote , and Old Man Coyote knew it .
Bowser did n't see that he was coming to a steep bank .
He did n't see it at all until he reached the edge of it , and then he was going so fast that he could n't stop .
Over he went with a frightened yelp !
Down , down he fell , and landed with a thump on the ice below .
He landed so hard that he broke the ice , and went through into the cold , black water .
Old Man Coyote crept to the edge of the bank and peeped over .
Poor Bowser was having a terrible time .
You see , the cold water had taken what little breath his fall had not knocked out of him .
He does n't like to go in water anyway .
You know the hair of his coat is short and does n't protect him as it would if it were long .
Old Man Coyote grinned wickedly as he watched Bowser struggling feebly to climb out on the ice .
Each time he tried he slipped back , and all the time he was whimpering .
Old Man Coyote grinned more wickedly than ever .
I suspect that he hoped that Bowser would not be able to get out .
But after a little Bowser did manage to crawl out , and stood on the ice , shivering shaking .
Once more Old Man Coyote grinned , then , turning , he trotted back towards Farmer Brown 's .
CHAPTER IV POOR BOWSER Follow a crooked trail and you will find a scamp at the end .
Bowser the Hound .
Poor Bowser !
He stood shivering and shaking on the ice of the strange river to which Old Man Coyote had led him , and he knew not which way to turn .
Not only was he shivering and shaking from his cold bath , but he was bruised by his fall from the top of the steep bank , and he was so tired by his long run after Old Man Coyote that he could hardly stand .
Old Man Coyote had stayed only long enough to see that Bowser had managed to get out of the water , then had turned back towards the Old Pasture , the Green Meadows and the Green Forest near Farmer Brown 's .
You see , Old Man Coyote knew the way back .
He would take his time about getting there , for it really made no particular difference to him when he reached home .
He felt sure he would be able to find something to eat on the way .
But with Bowser it was very different .
Poor Bowser did n't know where he was .
It would have been bad enough under any circumstances to have been lost , but to be lost and at the same time tired almost to death , bruised and lame , wet and chilled through , was almost too much to bear .
He had n't the least idea which way to turn .
He could n't climb up the bank to find his own trail and follow it back home if he wanted to .
You see , that bank was very steep for some distance in each direction , and so it was impossible for Bowser to climb it .
For a few minutes he stood shivering , shaking and whimpering , not knowing which way to turn .
Then he started down the river on the ice , for he knew he would freeze if he continued to stand still .
He limped badly because one leg had been hurt in his fall .
After a while he came to a place where he could get up on the bank .
It was in the midst of deep woods and a very , very lonely place .
Hard crusted snow covered the ground , but it was better than walking on the ice and for this Bowser was thankful .
Which way should he turn ?
Where should he go ?
Night was coming on ; he was wet , cold and hungry , and as utterly lost as ever a dog was .
Poor Bowser !
For a minute or two he sat down and howled from sheer lonesomeness and discouragement .
How he did wish he had left Old Man Coyote alone !
How he did long for his snug , warm , little house in Farmer Brown 's dooryard , and for the good meal he knew was awaiting him there .
Now that the excitement of the hunt was over , he realized how very , very hungry he was , and he began to wonder where he would be able to get anything to eat .
Do you wonder that he howled ?
Old Man Coyote , trotting along on his way home , heard that howl and understood it .
Again he grinned that wicked grin of his , and stopped to listen .
`` I do n't think he 'll hunt me again in a hurry , '' he muttered , then trotted on .
Poor Bowser !
Hunting for anything but his home was farthest from his thoughts .
CHAPTER V BOWSER SPENDS A BAD NIGHT There 's nothing like just sticking to The thing you undertake to do .
There 'll be no cause then , though you fail , To hang your head or drop your tail .
Bowser the Hound .
Bowser was lost , utterly lost .
He had n't the least idea in which direction Farmer Brown 's house was .
In fact he had n't the least idea which way to turn to find any house .
It was the most lonely kind of a lonely place to which Old Man Coyote had led him and there played the trick on him which had caused him to tumble into the strange river .
But Bowser could n't stand still for long .
Already jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was going to bed behind the Purple Hills , and Bowser knew that cold as had been the day , the night would be still colder .
He must keep moving until he found a shelter .
If he did n't he would freeze .
So whimpering and whining , Bowser limped along .
Bowser was not afraid to be out at night as some folks are .
Goodness , no !
In fact , on many a moonlight night Bowser had hunted Reddy Fox or Granny Fox all night long .
Never once had he felt lonesome then .
But now it was very , very different .
You see , on those nights when he had hunted he always had known where he was .
He had known that at any time he could go straight home if he wanted to .
That made all the difference in the world .
It would have been bad enough , being lost this way , had he been feeling at his best .
Being lost always makes one feel terribly lonesome .
Lonesomeness is one of the worst parts of the feeling of being lost .
But added to this was the fact that Bowser was really not in fit condition to be out at all .
He was wet , tired , lame and hungry .
Do you wonder that he whimpered and whined as he limped along over the hard snow , and had n't the least idea whether he was headed towards home or deeper into the great woods ?
For a long time he kept on until it seemed to him he could n't drag one foot after another .
Then quite suddenly something big and dark loomed up in front of him .
It really was n't as big as it seemed .
It was a little house , a sugar camp , just such a one as Farmer Brown has near his home .
Bowser crept to the door .
It was closed .
Bowser sniffed and sniffed and his heart sank , for there was no scent of human beings .
Then he knew that that little house was deserted and empty .
Still he whined and scratched at the door .
By and by the door opened ever so little , for it had not been locked .
Bowser crept in .
In one corner he found some hay , and in this he curled up .
It was cold , very cold , but not nearly as cold as outside that little house .
So Bowser curled up in the hay and shivered and shook and slept a little and wished with all his might that he never had found the tracks of Old Man Coyote .
CHAPTER VI THE SURPRISE OF BLACKY THE CROW The harder it is to follow a trail The greater the reason you should not fail .
Bowser the Hound .
At all seasons of the year Blacky the Crow is something of a traveler .
But in winter he is much more of a traveler than in summer .
You see , in winter it is not nearly so easy to pick up a living .
Food is quite as scarce for Blacky the Crow in winter as for any of the other little people who neither sleep the winter away nor go south .
All of the feathered folks have to work and work hard to find food enough to keep them warm .
You know it is food that makes heat in the body .
So in the winter Blacky is in the habit of flying long distances in search of food .
He often goes some miles from the thick hemlock-tree in the Green Forest where he spends his nights .
You may see him starting out early in the morning and returning late in the afternoon .
Now Blacky knew all about that river into which Bowser the Hound had fallen .
There was a certain place on that river where Jack Frost never did succeed in making ice .
Sometimes things good to eat would be washed up along the edge of this open place .
Blacky visited it regularly .
He was on the way there now , flying low over the tree-tops .
Presently he came to a little opening among the trees .
In the middle of it was a little house , a rough little house .
Blacky knew all about it .
It was a sugar camp .
He knew that only in the spring of the year was he likely to find anybody about there .
All the rest of the year it was shut up .
Every time he passed that way Blacky flew over it .
Blacky 's eyes are very sharp indeed , as everybody knows .
Now , as he drew near , he noticed right away that the door was partly open .
It had n't been that way the last time he passed .
`` Ho ! ''
exclaimed Blacky .
`` I wonder if the wind blew that open , or if there is some one inside .
I think I 'll watch a while . ''
So Blacky flew to the top of a tall tree from which he could look all over the little clearing and could watch the door of the little house .
For a long time he sat there as silent as the trees themselves .
Nothing happened .
He began to grow tired .
Rather , he began to grow so hungry that he became impatient .
`` If there is anybody in there he must be asleep , '' muttered Blacky to himself .
`` I 'll see if I can wake him up .
Caw , caw , ca-a-w , caw , caw ! ''
Blacky waited a few minutes , then repeated his cry .
He did this three times and had just made up his mind that there was nobody inside that little house when a head appeared in the doorway .
Blacky was so surprised that he nearly fell from his perch .
`` As I live , '' he muttered , `` that is Bowser the Hound !
It certainly is .
Now what is he doing way over here ?
I 've never known him to go so far from home before . ''
CHAPTER VII BLACKY THE CROW TAKES PITY ON BOWSER Beneath a coat of ebon hue May beat a heart that 's kind and true .
The worst of scamps in time of need Will often do a kindly deed .
Bowser the Hound .
`` Caw , ca-a-w ! ''
exclaimed Blacky the Crow .
Bowser looked up to the top of the tall tree where Blacky sat , and in his great , soft eyes was such a look of friendliness that it gave Blacky a funny feeling .
You know Blacky is not used to friendly looks .
He is used to quite the other kind .
Bowser came out of the old sugar house where he had spent the night and whined softly as he looked up at Blacky , and as he whined he wagged his tail ever so slightly .
Blacky did n't know what to make of it .
He had never been more surprised in his life .
He did n't know which surprised him most , finding Bowser ` way over here where he had no business to be , or Bowser 's friendliness .
As for Bowser , he had spent such a forlorn , miserable night , and he was so terribly lonesome , that the very sound of Blacky 's voice had given him a queer thrill .
Never had he thought of Blacky the Crow as a friend .
In fact , he never thought much about Blacky at all .
Sometimes he had chased Blacky out of Farmer Brown 's corn-field early in the spring but that is all he ever had had to do with him .
Now , however , lonesome and lost as he was , the sound of a familiar voice made him tingle all over with a friendly feeling .
So he whined softly and wagged his tail feebly as he looked up at Blacky sitting in the top of a tall tree .
Presently Bowser limped out to the middle of the little clearing and turned first this way and then that way .
Then he sat down and howled dismally .
In an instant Blacky the Crow understood ; Bowser was lost .
`` So that 's the trouble , '' muttered Blacky to himself .
`` That silly dog has got himself lost .
I never will be able to understand how anybody can get lost .
I never in my life was lost , and never expect to be .
But it is easy enough to see that Bowser is lost and badly lost .
My goodness , how lame he is !
I wonder what 's happened to him .
Serves him right for hunting other people , but I 'm sorry for him just the same .
What a helpless creature a lost dog is , anyway .
I suppose if he does n't find a house pretty soon he will starve to death .
Old Man Coyote would n't .
Reddy Fox would n't .
They would catch something to eat , no matter where they were .
I suppose they would n't thank me for doing it , but just the same I think I 'll take pity on Bowser and help him out of his trouble . ''
CHAPTER VIII HOW BLACKY THE CROW HELPED BOWSER The blackest coat may cover the kindest heart .
Bowser the Hound .
When Blacky the Crow said to himself that he guessed he would take pity on Bowser and help him out of his trouble , he knew that he could do it without very much trouble to himself .
Perhaps if there had been very much trouble in it , Blacky would not have been quite so ready and willing .
Then again , perhaps it is n't fair to Blacky to think that he might not have been willing .
Even the most selfish people are sometimes kindly and unselfish .
Blacky knew just where the nearest house was .
You can always trust Blacky to know not only where every house is within sight of the places he frequents , but all about the people who live in each house .
Blacky makes it his business to know these things .
He could , if he would , tell you which houses have terrible guns in them and which have not .
It is by knowing such things that Blacky manages to avoid danger .
`` If that dog knows enough to follow me , I 'll take him where he can at least get something to eat , '' muttered Blacky .
`` It wo n't be far out of my way , anyway , because if he has any sense at all , I wo n't have to go all the way over there . ''
So Blacky spread his black wings and disappeared over the tree-tops in the direction of the nearest farmhouse .
Bowser watched him disappear and whined sadly , for somehow it made him feel more lonesome than before .
But for one thing he would have gone back to his bed of hay in the corner of that sugar camp .
That one thing was hunger .
It seemed to Bowser that his stomach was so empty that the very sides of it had fallen in .
He just must get something to eat .
So , after waiting a moment or two , Bowser turned and limped away through the trees , and he limped in the direction which Blacky the Crow had taken .
You see , he could still hear Blacky 's voice calling `` Caw , caw , caw '' , and somehow it made him feel better , less lonesome , you know , to be within hearing of a voice he knew .
Bowser had to go on three legs , for one leg had been so hurt in the fall over the bank that he could not put his foot to the ground .
Then , too , he was very , very stiff from the cold and the wetting he had received the night before .
So poor Bowser made slow work of it , and Blacky the Crow almost lost patience waiting for him to appear .
As soon as Bowser came in sight , Blacky gave what was intended for a cheery caw and then headed straight for the place he had started for that morning , giving no more thought to Bowser the Hound .
You see , he knew that Bowser would shortly come to a road .
`` If he does n't know enough to follow that road , he deserves to starve , '' thought Blacky .
Bowser did know enough to follow that road .
The instant he saw that road , he knew that if he kept on following it , it would lead him somewhere .
So with new hope in his heart , Bowser limped along .
CHAPTER IX OLD MAN COYOTE GIVES OUT DARK HINTS A little hint dropped there or here , Is like a seed in spring of year ; It sprouts and grows , and none may say How big ` twill be some future day .
Bowser the Hound .
After leading Bowser the Hound far , far away and getting him lost in strange country , Old Man Coyote trotted back to the Old Pasture , the Green Forest , and the Green Meadows near Farmer Brown 's .
He did n't have any trouble at all in finding his way back .
You see , all the time he was leading Bowser away , he himself was using his eyes and taking note of where he was going .
You ca n't lose Old Man Coyote .
No , Sir , you ca n't lose Old Man Coyote , and it is of no use to try .
So , stopping two or three times to hunt a little by the way , Old Man Coyote trotted back .
He managed to pick up a good meal on the way , and when at last he reached his home in the Old Pasture he was feeling very well satisfied with the Great World in general and himself in particular .
He grinned as only Old Man Coyote can grin .
`` I do n't think any of us will be bothered by that meddlesome Bowser very soon again , '' said he , as he crept into his house for a nap .
`` If he had drowned in that river , I should n't have cried over it .
But even as it is , I do n't think he will get back here in a hurry .
I must pass the word along . ''
So a day or so later , when Sammy Jay happened along , Old Man Coyote asked him , in quite a matter-of-fact way , if he had seen anything of Bowser the Hound for a day or two .
`` Why do you ask ? ''
said Sammy sharply .
Old Man Coyote grinned slyly .
`` For no reason at all , Sammy .
For no reason at all , '' he replied .
`` It just popped into my head that I had n't heard Bowser 's voice for two or three days .
It set me to wondering if he is sick , or if anything has happened to him . ''
That was enough to start Sammy Jay straight for Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Of course Bowser was n't to be seen .
Sammy hung around and watched .
Twice he saw Farmer Brown 's boy come to the door with a worried look on his face and heard him whistle and call for Bowser .
Then there was n't the slightest doubt in Sammy 's mind that something had happened to Bowser .
`` Old Man Coyote knows something about it , too , '' muttered Sammy , as he turned his head on one side and scratched his pointed cap thoughtfully .
`` He ca n't fool me .
That old rascal knows where Bowser is , or what has happened to him , and I would n't be a bit surprised if he had something to do with it .
I almost know he did from the way he grinned . ''
The day was not half over before all through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows had spread the report that Bowser the Hound was no more .
CHAPTER X HOW REDDY FOX INVESTIGATED In-vest-i-gate if you would know That something is or is n't so .
Bowser the Hound .
To in-vest-i-gate something means to try to find out about it .
Reddy Fox had heard from so many different ones about the disappearance of Bowser that he finally made up his mind that he would in-vest-i-gate and find out for himself if it were true that Bowser was no longer at home in Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
If it were true , -- well , Reddy had certain plans of his own in regard to Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
Reddy had begun by doubting that story because it seemed to have come first from Old Man Coyote .
Reddy would doubt anything with which Old Man Coyote was concerned .
But Reddy had finally come to believe that something certainly had happened because half a dozen times during the day he had heard Farmer Brown 's boy whistle and whistle and call and call .
Just as soon as the Black Shadows came creeping out from the Purple Hills , Reddy started up towards Farmer Brown 's .
He did n't go directly there , because he never goes directly anywhere if there is the least chance in the world that any one may be watching him .
But as he slipped along in the blackest of the Black Shadows , he was all the time working nearer and nearer to Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Although he was inclined to think it was true that Bowser was not there , he was far too wise to take any unnecessary risk .
He approached Farmer Brown 's dooryard just as carefully as if he knew Bowser to be in his little house as usual .
He kept in the Black Shadows .
He crouched so low that he seemed hardly more than a Black Shadow himself .
Every two or three steps he stopped to look , listen , and test the air with his keen nose .
As he drew near Bowser 's own little house , Reddy circled out around it until he could see the doorway .
Then he sat down where he could peek around from behind a tree and watch .
He had been there only a few moments when the back door of Farmer Brown 's house opened and Farmer Brown 's boy stepped out .
Reddy did n't run .
He knew that Farmer Brown 's boy would never dream that he would dare come so near .
Besides , it was very clear that Farmer Brown 's boy was thinking of no one but Bowser .
He whistled and called just as he had done several times during the day .
But no Bowser came , so after a while Farmer Brown 's boy went back into the house .
There was a worried look on his face .
As soon as he heard the door close , Reddy trotted right out in the open and sat down only a few feet from the black doorway of Bowser 's little house .
Reddy barked softly .
Then he barked a little louder .
He knew that if Bowser were at home , that bark would bring him out if nothing else did .
Bowser did n't appear .
Reddy grinned .
He was sure now that Bowser was nowhere about .
Chuckling to himself , he turned and trotted towards Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
CHAPTER XI A LITTLE UNPLEASANTNESS Watch a Coyote most closely when it appears that he least needs watching .
Bowser the Hound .
Never in his life had Reddy Fox visited Farmer Brown 's henhouse with quite such a comfortable feeling as he now had .
He knew for a certainty that Bowser the Hound was not at home .
He knew because he had finally crept up and peeped in the door of Bowser 's little house .
What had become of Bowser he did n't know , and he did n't care .
It was enough to know that he was n't about .
`` I hope Farmer Brown 's boy has forgotten to close that little doorway where the hens run in and out , '' muttered Reddy , as he trotted across Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Once he stopped , and looking up at the lighted windows of the house , grinned .
You see , with Bowser gone , Reddy was n't the least bit afraid .
`` If I can get into that henhouse , '' thought Reddy , `` I certainly will have one good feast to-night .
That is , I will if those stupid hens are not roosting so high that I ca n't get them .
I 'll eat one right there . ''
Reddy 's mouth watered at the very thought .
`` Then I 'll take one home to Mrs. Reddy .
If there is time we both will come back for a couple more . ''
So Reddy made pleasant plans as he approached Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
When he reached it he paused to listen to certain sounds within , certain fretful little cluckings .
Reddy sat down for a minute with his tongue hanging out and the water actually dripping from it .
He could shut his eyes and see those roosts with the hens crowded together so that every once in a while one would be wakened and fretfully protest against being crowded so .
But Reddy sat there only for a minute .
He was too eager to find out if it would prove to be possible to get inside that henhouse .
Running swiftly but cautiously past the henhouse and along one side of the henyard , he peeped around the corner to see if by any chance the yard gate had been left open .
His heart gave a leap of joy as he saw that the gate was not quite closed .
All he would have to do would be to push it and enter .
Reddy turned the corner quickly .
Just as he put up one paw to push the gate open , a low but decidedly ugly growl made him jump back with every hair of his coat standing on end .
His first thought was of Bowser .
It must be that Bowser had returned !
Believing in safety first , Reddy did not stop to see who had growled , but ran swiftly a short distance .
Then he looked behind him .
Over at the gate of Farmer Brown 's henyard he could see a dark form .
At once Reddy knew that it was n't Bowser the Hound , for it had a bushy tail , while Bowser 's was smooth .
Reddy knew who it was .
It was Old Man Coyote .
-LSB- Illustration : OVER AT THE GATE OF FARMER BROWN 'S HENYARD HE COULD SEE A DARK FORM -RSB- CHAPTER XII THE CLEVERNESS OF OLD MAN COYOTE Who thinks the quickest and the best Is bound to win in every test .
Bowser the Hound .
The meeting of Reddy Fox and Old Man Coyote just outside the gate to Farmer Brown 's henyard had been wholly unexpected to both .
Reddy had been so eager to get inside that gate that when he turned the corner at the henyard he had n't looked beyond the gate .
If he had looked beyond , he would have seen Old Man Coyote just coming around the other corner .
As for Old Man Coyote , he had been so surprised at sight of Reddy Fox that he had growled before he had had time to think .
He was sorry the very instant he did it .
`` That certainly was a stupid thing to do , '' muttered Old Man Coyote to himself , as he watched Reddy Fox run away in a panic .
`` I should have kept out of sight and let him open that gate and go inside first .
There may be traps in there , for all I know .
When there 's likely to be danger , always let some one else find it out for you if you can . ''
Old Man Coyote grinned as he said this .
Reddy Fox sat down at a safe distance to watch what Old Man Coyote would do .
Inside , Reddy was fairly boiling with disappointment and anger .
He felt that he hated Old Man Coyote more than he hated anybody else he knew of .
He hated him , yet there was n't a thing he could do about it .
He did n't dare fight Old Man Coyote .
All he could do was to sit there at a safe distance and watch .
The gate of the henyard was open two or three inches .
For a long time Old Man Coyote stood looking through that little opening .
Once or twice he thrust his nose out and sniffed cautiously around the gate , but he took the greatest care not to touch it .
Finally he turned and trotted away towards the Green Forest .
Reddy sat right where he was , so surprised that he could n't even think .
He waited a long time to see if Old Man Coyote would return , but Old Man Coyote did n't return , and at last Reddy cautiously crept towards that unlocked gate .
`` I do believe that fellow did n't know enough to push that gate open , '' muttered Reddy to himself .
`` I always supposed Old Man Coyote was smart , but if this is an example of his smartness I 'll match my wits against his any day . ''
All this time Old Man Coyote was not so far away as Reddy thought .
He had gone only fat enough to make sure that Reddy could n't see him .
Then , creeping along in the blackest of the Black Shadows , he had returned to a place where he could watch Reddy .
`` It 's queer that gate should have been left unlocked , '' thought Old Man Coyote .
`` It may have been an accident , and again it may have been done purposely .
There may not be any danger inside ; then again there may .
I 'm not going to push that gate open or step inside when there is some one to do it for me .
I 'll just leave it for Reddy Fox to do . ''
CHAPTER XIII THE MISCHIEVOUS LITTLE NIGHT BREEZE A little act of mischief can Upset the deepest , best laid plan .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox was very pleased with himself as he thought how much smarter he was than Old Man Coyote .
He did n't waste any time in pushing open the henyard gate .
It did n't enter his head that there might be a trap inside .
He was so eager to find out if the little door where in daytime the hens ran in and out of the henhouse was open , that he jumped inside the henyard just as soon as the gate was pushed open wide enough for him to enter .
Old Man Coyote , watching from his hiding place , saw Reddy push the gate open and enter the henyard .
`` So far , so good , '' muttered Old Man Coyote to himself .
`` There is n't any trap just inside that gate , so it will be safe enough for me to follow Reddy in there .
I think I 'll wait a bit , however , and see what luck he has in getting into the henhouse .
If he catches a chicken he wo n't stop to eat it there .
He wo n't dare to .
All I need do is to wait right here around the corner , and if he brings a chicken out , I 'll simply tell him to drop it .
Then I will have the chicken and will have run no risk . ''
You see Old Man Coyote is a very , very clever old sinner .
So Old Man Coyote peeked through the wires and watched Reddy Fox , who thought himself so much smarter , steal swiftly across to the henhouse and try that little door .
It was closed , but it was n't fastened , as Reddy could tell by poking at it .
`` It is just a matter of time and patience , '' muttered Reddy to himself .
`` If I keep at it long enough , I can work it open . ''
You see Reddy had done that very thing once before a great while ago .
So he set himself to work with such patience as he could , and all the time Old Man Coyote watched and wondered what Reddy was doing .
He guessed that Reddy was having some trouble , but also he knew from Reddy 's actions that Reddy hoped to get inside that henhouse .
Now Reddy had left the henyard gate ajar .
If he had pushed it wide open things might have been different .
But he did n't push it wide open .
He left it only halfway open .
By and by there happened along a mischievous little Night Breeze .
There is nothing that a mischievous little Night Breeze enjoys more than making things move .
This mischievous little Night Breeze found that that gate would swing , so it blew against that gate and blew and blew until suddenly , with a sharp little click , the gate closed and the spring latch snapped into place .
Reddy Fox was a prisoner !
CHAPTER XIV THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN BEING INSIDE AND OUTSIDE You 'll find ` twill often come about That he who 's in fain would be out .
Bowser the Hound .
It certainly is queer what a difference there is between being inside and outside .
Sometimes happiness is inside and sometimes it is outside .
Sometimes the one who is inside wishes with all his might that he were outside , and sometimes the one who is outside would give anything in the world to be inside .
Just take the case of Reddy Fox .
He had stolen inside of Farmer Brown 's henyard , leaving the gate halfway open .
He had set himself to work to open the little sliding door through which in the daytime the hens passed in and out of the henhouse .
As he worked he had been filled with great contentment and joy .
He knew that Bowser the Hound had disappeared .
He felt sure that there was nothing to fear , and he fully expected to dine that night on chicken .
Then along came a mischievous little Night Breeze and swung that gate shut .
At the click of the latch Reddy turned his head , and in a flash he saw what had happened .
All in an instant everything had changed for Reddy Fox .
Fear and despair took the place of contentment and happy anticipations .
He was a prisoner inside that henyard .
Frantically Reddy rushed over to the gate .
There was n't even a crack through which he could thrust his sharp little nose .
Then , beside himself with fear , he raced around that henyard , seeking a hole through which he might escape .
There was n't any hole .
That fence had been built to keep out such people as Reddy Fox , and of course a fence that would keep Reddy out would also keep him in , if he happened to be caught inside as he now was .
He could n't dig down under it , because , you know , the ground was frozen hard and covered with snow and an icy crust .
He was caught , and that was all there was to it .
Suddenly Reddy became aware of some one just outside the wire fence , looking in and grinning wickedly .
It was Old Man Coyote .
Between them was nothing but that wire , but , oh , what a difference !
Reddy was inside and a prisoner .
Old Man Coyote was outside and free .
`` Good evening , Reddy , '' said Old Man Coyote .
`` I hope you 'll enjoy your chicken dinner .
When you are eating it , just think over this bit of advice : Never take a risk when you can get some one else to take it for you .
I would like a chicken dinner myself , but as it is , I think I will enjoy a Mouse or two better .
Pay my respects to Farmer Brown 's boy when he comes in the morning . ''
With this , Old Man Coyote once more grinned that wicked grin of his and trotted away towards the Green Forest .
Reddy watched him disappear and would have given anything in the world to have been outside the fence in his place instead of inside , where he then was .
CHAPTER XV REDDY 'S FORLORN CHANCE This saying is both true and terse : There 's nothing bad but might be worse .
Bowser the Hound .
If any one had said this to Reddy Fox during the first half hour after he discovered that he was a prisoner in Farmer Brown 's henyard , he would n't have believed it .
He would n't have believed a word of it .
He would have said that he could n't possibly have been worse off than he was .
He was a prisoner , and he could n't possibly get out .
He knew that in the morning Farmer Brown 's boy would certainly discover him .
It could n't be otherwise .
That is , it could n't be otherwise as long as he remained in that henyard .
There was n't a thing , not one solitary thing , under or behind which he could hide .
So , to Reddy 's way of thinking , things could n't possibly have been worse .
But after a while , having nothing else to do , Reddy began to think .
Now it is surprising how thinking will change matters .
One of the first thoughts that came to Reddy was that he might have been caught in a trap , -- one of those cruel traps that close like a pair of jaws and sometimes break the bones of the foot or leg , and from which there is no escape .
Right away Reddy realized that to have been so caught would have been much worse than being a prisoner in Farmer Brown 's henyard .
This made him feel just a wee , wee bit better , and he began to do some more thinking .
For a long time his thinking did n't help him in the least .
At last , however , he remembered the chicken dinner he had felt so sure he was going to enjoy .
The thought of the chicken dinner reminded him that inside the henhouse it was dark .
He had been inside that henhouse before , and he knew that there were boxes in there .
If he were inside the henhouse , it might be , it just might possibly be , that he could hide when Farmer Brown 's boy came in the morning .
So once more Reddy went to work at that little sliding door where the hens ran in and out during the day .
He already had found out that it was n't fastened , and he felt sure that with patience he could open it .
So he worked away and worked away , until at last there was a little crack .
He got his claws in the little crack and pulled and pulled .
The little crack became a little wider .
By and by it was wide enough for him to get his whole paw in .
Then it became wide enough for him to get his head half in .
After this , all he had to do was to force himself through , for as he pushed and shoved , the little door opened .
He was inside at last !
There was a chance , just a forlorn chance , that he might be able to escape the notice of Farmer Brown 's boy in the morning .
CHAPTER XVI WHY REDDY WENT WITHOUT A CHICKEN DINNER A dinner is far better lost Than eaten at too great a cost .
Bowser the Hound .
Can you imagine Reddy Fox with a chicken dinner right before him and not touching it ?
Well , that is just what happened in Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
It was n't because Reddy had no appetite .
He was hungry , very hungry .
He always is in winter .
Then it does n't often happen that he gets enough to eat at one meal to really fill his stomach .
Yet here he was with a chicken dinner right before him , and he did n't touch it .
You see it was this way : Reddy 's wits were working very fast there in Farmer Brown 's henhouse .
He knew that he had only a forlorn chance of escaping when Farmer Brown 's boy should come to open the henhouse in the morning .
He knew that he must make the most of that forlorn chance .
He knew that freedom is a thousand times better than a full stomach .
On one of the lower roosts sat a fat hen .
She was within easy jumping distance .
Reddy knew that with one quick spring she would be his .
If the henyard gate had been open , he would have wasted no time in making that one quick spring .
But the henyard gate , as you know , was closed fast .
`` I 'm awfully hungry , '' muttered Reddy to himself , `` but if I should catch and eat that fat hen , Farmer Brown 's boy would be sure to notice the feathers on the floor the very minute he opened the door .
It wo n't do , Reddy ; it wo n't do .
You ca n't afford to have the least little thing seem wrong in this henhouse .
What you have got to do is to swallow your appetite and keep quiet in the darkest corner you can find , '' So Reddy Fox spent the rest of the night curled up in the darkest corner , partly behind a box .
All the time his nose was filled with the smell of fat hens .
Every little while a hen who was being crowded too much on the roost would stir uneasily and protest in a sleepy voice .
Just think of what Reddy suffered .
Just think how you would feel to be very , very hungry and have right within reach the one thing you like best in all the world to eat and then not dare touch it .
Some foolish folks in Reddy 's place would have eaten that dinner and trusted to luck to get out of trouble later .
But Reddy was far too wise to do anything of that kind .
Doing as Reddy did that night is called exercising self-restraint .
Everybody should be able to do it .
But it sometimes seems as if very many people can not do it .
Anyway , they do n't do it , and because they do n't do it they are forever getting into trouble .
Reddy knew when morning came , although the henhouse was still dark .
Somehow or other hens always know just when jolly , round , red Mr. Sun kicks his blankets off and begins his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky .
The big rooster on the topmost perch stretched his long neck , flapped his wings , and crowed at the top of his voice .
Reddy shivered .
`` It wo n't be long now before Farmer Brown 's boy comes , '' thought he .
CHAPTER XVII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY DROPS A PAN OF CORN Who when surprised keeps calm and cool Is one most difficult to fool .
Bowser the Hound .
In his lifetime Reddy Fox has spent many anxious moments , but none more anxious than those in which he waited for Farmer Brown 's boy to open the henhouse and feed the biddies on this particular morning .
From the moment when the big rooster on the topmost perch stretched forth his neck , flapped his wings , and crowed as only he can crow , Reddy was on pins and needles , as the saying is .
Hiding behind a box in the darkest corner of the henhouse , he hardly dared to breathe .
You see , he did n't want those hens to discover him .
He knew that if they did they would make such a racket that they would bring Farmer Brown 's boy hurrying out to find out what the trouble was .
Reddy had had experience with hens before .
He knew that if Farmer Brown 's boy heard them making a great racket , he would know that something was wrong , and he would come all prepared .
This was the one thing that Reddy did not want .
His one chance to escape would be to take Farmer Brown 's boy entirely by surprise .
Never had time dragged more slowly .
The hens were awake , and several of them flew down to the floor of the henhouse .
They passed so close to where Reddy was hiding that merely by reaching out a black paw he could have touched them .
Because he took particular pains not to move , not even to twitch a black ear , they did not see him .
Anyway , if they did see him , they took no notice of him .
How the moments did drag !
All the time he lay there listening , wishing that Farmer Brown 's boy would come , yet dreading to have him come .
It seemed ages before he heard sounds which told him that people were awake in Farmer Brown 's house .
Finally he heard a distant door slam .
Then he heard a whistle , a merry whistle .
It drew nearer and nearer ; Farmer Brown 's boy was coming to feed the hens .
Reddy tried to hold his breath .
He heard the click of the henyard gate as Farmer Brown 's boy opened it , then he heard the crunch , crunch , crunch of Farmer Brown 's boy 's feet on the snow .
Suddenly the henhouse door was thrown open and Farmer Brown 's boy stepped inside .
In his hand he held a pan filled with the breakfast he had brought for the hens .
Suddenly a box in the darkest corner of the henhouse moved .
Farmer Brown 's boy turned to look , and as he did so a slim form dashed fairly between his legs .
It startled him so that he dropped the pan and spilled the corn all over the henhouse floor .
`` Great Scott ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` What under the sun was that ? ''
and rushed to the door to see .
He was just in time to get a glimpse of a red coat and a bushy tail disappearing around a corner of the barn .
CHAPTER XVIII MUTUAL RELIEF The wise Fox knows that with every chicken he steals he puts an increased price on his own skin .
Bowser the Hound .
When Reddy Fox dashed between the legs of Farmer Brown 's boy and out of the open door of the henhouse , it was with his heart in his mouth .
At least , it seemed that way .
Would he find the henyard gate open ?
Supposing Farmer Brown 's boy had closed it after he entered !
Reddy would then be a prisoner just as he had been all night , and all hope would end .
Just imagine with what terrible anxiety and eagerness Reddy looked towards that gate as he dashed out of the open door .
Just imagine the relief that was his when he saw that the gate was open .
In that very instant the snowy outside world became more beautiful and wonderful than ever it had been in all his life before .
He was free !
free !
free !
If ever there was a surprised boy , that boy was Farmer Brown 's as he watched Reddy twist around a corner of the barn and disappear .
`` Reddy Fox ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` Now how under the sun did that rascal get in here ? ''
Then , as he realized that Reddy had actually been inside the henhouse , anxiety for the biddies swept over him .
Hastily he turned , fully expecting to see either the bodies of two or three hens on the floor , or scattered feathers to show that Reddy had enjoyed a midnight feast .
There were no feathers , and so far as he could see , all the hens were standing or walking about .
At once Farmer Brown 's boy began to count them .
Of course , he knew exactly how many there should be .
When he got through counting , not one was missing .
Farmer Brown 's boy was puzzled .
He counted them again .
Then he counted them a third time .
He began to think there must be something wrong with his counting .
After the fourth count , however , he was forced to believe that not a single one was missing .
If Reddy Fox had been relieved when he discovered that henyard gate open , Farmer Brown 's boy was equally relieved when he found that not a single biddie had been taken .
When two people are relieved at the same time , it is called mutual relief .
But there was this difference between Reddy Fox and Farmer Brown 's boy : Reddy knew all about what had happened , and Farmer Brown 's boy could n't even guess .
He went all around that henhouse , trying to find a way by which Reddy Fox had managed to get in .
Of course , he discovered that the little sliding door where the biddies go in and out of the henhouse was open .
He guessed that this was the way by which Reddy had entered .
But this did n't explain matters at all .
He knew that the gate had been latched when he entered the henyard that morning .
How had Reddy managed to get into that henyard with that gate closed ?
To this day , Farmer Brown 's boy is still wondering .
CHAPTER XIX WHERE WAS BOWSER THE HOUND ?
A good Hound never barks on a cold trail .
Bowser the Hound .
Where was Bowser the Hound ?
That was the question which was puzzling all the little people who knew him .
Also it was puzzling Farmer Brown 's boy and Farmer Brown and Mrs. Brown .
I have said that it was puzzling all the little people who knew him .
This is not quite true , because there were two who could at least guess what had become of Bowser .
One was Old Man Coyote , who had , as you remember , led Bowser far away and got him lost .
The other was Blacky the Crow , who had discovered Bowser in his trouble and had helped him .
Old Man Coyote did n't know exactly where Bowser was , and he was n't interested enough to think much about it .
He hoped that Bowser had been so badly lost that he never would return .
Blacky the Crow knew exactly where Bowser was , but he kept it to himself .
It pleases Blacky to have a secret which other people would give much to know .
Blacky is one of those people who can keep a secret .
He is n't at all like Peter Rabbit .
Reddy Fox was one who was very much interested in the fate of Bowser the Hound .
As day after day went by and Bowser did not appear , Reddy had a growing hope that he never would appear .
`` I ca n't imagine what Old Man Coyote could have done to Bowser , '' said Reddy to himself .
`` He certainly could n't have killed Bowser in a fight , for that old rascal would never in the world dare face Bowser the Hound in a fight .
But he certainly has caused something to happen to Bowser .
If that bothersome dog never returns , it certainly will make things a lot easier for Granny Fox and myself . ''
As for Farmer Brown 's boy , he was as much puzzled as any of the little people and a whole lot more worried .
He drove all about the neighborhood , asking at every house if anything had been seen of Bowser , Nowhere did he get any trace of him .
No one had seen him .
It was very mysterious .
Farmer Brown 's boy had begun to suspect that Bowser had met with an accident somewhere off in the woods and had been unable to get help .
It made Farmer Brown 's boy very sad indeed .
His cheery whistle was no longer heard , for he did not feel like whistling .
At last he quite gave up hope of ever again seeing Bowser .
CHAPTER XX WHERE BOWSER WAS When things are at their very worst , As bad , you think , as they can be , Just lay aside your feelings sad ; The road ahead may turn , you see .
Bowser the Hound .
You remember that Blacky the Crow led poor Bowser to an old road and there left him .
Blacky reasoned that if Bowser had any sense at all , he would know that that road must lead somewhere and would follow it .
If he did n't have sense enough to do this , he deserved to starve or freeze , was the way Blacky reasoned it out .
Of course Blacky knew exactly where the road would lead .
Now Bowser did have sense .
Of course he did .
The minute he found that road , a great load was taken from his mind .
He no longer felt wholly lost .
He was certain that all he had to do was to keep in that road , and sooner or later he would come to a house .
The thing that worried him most was whether or not he would have strength enough to keep going until he reached that house .
You remember that he was weak from lack of food , lame , and half frozen .
Poor old Bowser !
He certainly was the picture of misery as he limped along that road .
His tail hung down as if he had n't strength enough to hold it up .
His head also hung low .
He walked on three legs and limped with one of these .
In his eyes was such a look of pain and suffering as would have touched the hardest heart .
He whined and whimpered as he limped along .
It seemed to him that he had gone a terribly long distance , though really it was not far at all , when something tickled his nose , that wonderful nose which can smell the tracks of others long after they have passed .
But this time it was n't the smell of a track that tickled his nose ; it was something in the air .
Bowser lifted his head and sniffed long and hard .
What he smelled was smoke .
He knew what that meant .
Somewhere not very far ahead of him was a house .
-LSB- Illustration : SOMEWHERE NOT VERY FAR AHEAD OF HIM WAS A HOUSE .
Page 96 .
-RSB- With new hope and courage Bowser tried to hurry on .
Presently around a turn of the road he saw a farmyard .
The smell of the smoke from the chimney of the farmhouse was stronger now , and with it was mingled an appetizing smell of things cooking .
Into Bowser 's whimper there now crept a little note of eagerness as he dragged himself across the farmyard and up to the back door .
There his strength quite left him .
He did n't have enough left to even bark .
All he could do was whine .
After what seemed a long , long time the door opened , and a motherly woman stood looking down at him .
Two minutes later Bowser lay on a mat close by the kitchen stove .
CHAPTER XXI BOWSER BECOMES A PRISONER There is no one in all the Great World more faithful than a faithful dog .
Bowser the Hound .
Bowser the Hound was a prisoner .
Yes , Sir , Bowser was a sure-enough prisoner .
But there is a great difference in prisons .
Bowser was a prisoner of kindness .
It seems funny that kindness should ever make any one a prisoner , but it is so sometimes .
You see , it was this way : When Bowser had been taken in to that strange farmhouse , he had been so used up that he had had only strength enough to very feebly wag his tail .
Right away the people in that farmhouse knew what had happened to Bowser .
That is , they knew part of what had happened to him .
They knew that he had been lost and had somehow hurt one leg .
They were very , very good to him .
They fed him , and made a comfortable bed for him , and rubbed something on the leg which he had hurt and which had swollen .
Almost right away after eating Bowser went to sleep and slept and slept and slept .
It was the very best thing he could have done .
The next day he felt a whole lot better , but he was so stiff and lame that he could hardly move .
He did n't try very much .
He was petted and cared for quite as tenderly as he would have been at his own home .
So several days passed , and Bowser was beginning to feel more like himself .
The more he felt like himself , the more he wanted to go home .
It was n't that there he would receive any greater kindness than he was now receiving , but home is home and there is no place like it .
So Bowser began to be uneasy .
`` This dog does n't belong anywhere around here , '' said the man of the house .
`` I know every Hound for miles around , and I never have seen this one before .
He has come a long distance .
It will not do to let him go , for he will try to find his way home and the chances are that he will again get lost .
We must keep him in the house or chained up .
Perhaps some day we may be able to find his owner .
If not , we will keep him .
I am sure he will soon become contented here . ''
Now that man knew dogs .
Had Bowser had the chance , he would have done exactly what that man had said .
He would have tried to find his way home , and he had n't the least idea in the world in which direction home lay .
But he did n't get the chance to try .
When he was allowed to run out of doors it was always with some one to watch him .
He was petted and babied and made a great deal of , but he knew all the time that he was a prisoner .
He knew that if he was to get away at all he would have to sneak away , and somehow there never seemed a chance to do this .
He was grateful to these kindly people , but down in his heart was a great longing for Farmer Brown 's boy and home .
He always felt this longing just a wee bit stronger when Blacky the Crow passed over and cawed .
CHAPTER XXII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY LOOKS IN VAIN Loyalty is priceless and Is neither sold nor bought .
Alas , how few who seem to know Its value as they ought .
Bowser the Hound .
As I have told you , Farmer Brown 's boy had been all about the neighborhood asking at each farmhouse if anything had been seen of Bowser .
Of course nothing had been seen of him , and so at last Farmer Brown 's boy felt sure that something dreadful had happened to Bowser in the woods .
For several days he tramped through the Green Forest and up through the Old Pasture , looking for signs of Bowser .
His heart was heavy , for you know Bowser was quite one of the family .
He visited every place he could think of where he and Bowser had hunted together .
He knew that by this time Bowser could n't possibly be alive if he had been caught by a foot in a trap or had met with an accident in the woods .
He had quite given up all hope of ever seeing Bowser alive again .
But he did want to know just what had happened to him , and so he kept searching and searching .
One day Farmer Brown 's boy heard that a strange dog had been found over in the next township .
That afternoon he drove over there , his heart filled with great hope .
But he had his long ride for nothing , for when he got there he found that the strange dog was not Bowser at all .
Meanwhile Old Man Coyote and Reddy Fox and Old Granny Fox had become very bold .
They even came up around the henyard in broad daylight .
`` I believe you know something about what has become of Bowser , '' Farmer Brown 's boy said , as he chased Old Man Coyote away one day .
`` You certainly know that he is n't home , and I more than suspect that you know why he is n't home .
I certainly shall have to get another dog to teach you not to be so bold . ''
But somehow Farmer Brown 's boy could n't bring himself quite to taking such a step as getting a new dog .
He felt that no other dog ever could take Bowser 's place , and in spite of the fact that he thought he had given up all hope of ever seeing Bowser again , ` way down deep inside was something which , if it were not hope , was something enough like it to keep him from getting another dog in Bowser 's place .
Whenever he went about away from home , he kept an eye out for dogs in the farmyards he passed .
He did it without really thinking anything about it .
He had given up hope of finding Bowser , yet he was always looking for him .
CHAPTER XXIII BOWSER 'S GREAT VOICE To long for home when far away Will rob of joy the brightest day .
Bowser the Hound .
There is as much difference in the voices of dogs as in the voices of human beings .
For that matter , this is true of many of the little people who wear fur .
Bowser the Hound had a wonderful , deep , clear voice , a voice that could be heard a great distance .
No one who knew it would ever mistake it for the voice of any other Hound .
As a rule , Bowser seldom used that great voice of his save when he was hunting some one .
Then , when the scent was strong , he gave tongue so fast that you wondered how he had breath enough left to run .
But now that he was a prisoner of kindness , in the home of the people who had taken him in when he had crept to their doorstep , Bowser sometimes bayed from sheer homesickness .
When he was tied out in the yard , he would sometimes get to thinking of his home and long to see Farmer Brown and Mrs. Brown and especially his master , Farmer Brown 's boy .
Then , when he could stand it no longer , he would open his mouth and send his great voice rolling across to the woods with a tone of mournfulness which never had been there before .
But great as was Bowser 's voice , and far as it would carry , there was none who knew him to hear it , save Blacky the Crow .
You remember that Blacky knew just where Bowser was and often flew over that farmyard to make sure that Bowser was still there .
So more than once Blacky heard Bowser 's great voice with its mournful note , and understood it .
It troubled Blacky .
Yes , Sir , it actually troubled Blacky .
He knew just what was the matter with Bowser , but for the life of him he could n't think of any way of helping Bowser .
`` That dog is homesick , '' croaked Blacky , as he sat in the top of a tall tree , scratching his head as if he thought he might scratch an idea out of it .
`` Of course he does n't know how to get home , and if he tried he probably would get as badly lost as he was before .
Anyway , they do n't give him a chance to try .
I ca n't lead Farmer Brown 's boy over here because he does n't understand my talk , and I do n't understand his .
There is n't a thing I can do but keep watch .
I wish Bowser would stop barking .
It makes me feel uncomfortable .
Yes , Sir , it makes me feel uncomfortable .
Old Man Coyote got Bowser into this trouble , and he ought to get him out again , but I do n't suppose it is the least bit of use to ask him .
It wo n't do any harm to try , anyway . ''
So Blacky started back for the Green Forest and the Old Pasture near Farmer Brown 's to look for Old Man Coyote , and for a long time as he flew he could hear Bowser 's voice with its note of homesickness and longing .
CHAPTER XXIV BLACKY TRIES TO GET HELP You 'll find that nothing more worth while can be Than helping others whose distress you see .
Bowser the Hound .
On his way back to the Green Forest near Farmer Brown 's home , Blacky the Crow kept a sharp watch for Old Man Coyote .
But Old Man Coyote was nowhere to be seen , and it was too late to go look for him , because jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had already gone to bed behind the Purple Hills and the Black Shadows were hurrying towards the Green Forest .
Blacky never is out after dark .
You might think that one with so black a coat would be fond of the Black Shadows , but it is n't so at all .
The fact is , bold and impudent as Blacky the Crow is in daylight , he is afraid of the dark .
He is quite as timid as anybody I know of in the dark .
So Blacky always contrives to go to bed early and is securely hidden away in his secret roosting-place by the time the Black Shadows reach the edge of the Green Forest .
Perhaps it is n't quite fair to say that Blacky is afraid of the dark .
It is n't the dark itself that Blacky fears , but it is one who is abroad in the dark .
It is Hooty the Owl .
Hooty would just as soon dine on Blacky the Crow as he would on any one else , and Blacky knows it .
The next morning , bright and early , Blacky flew over to the Old Pasture to the home of Old Man Coyote .
Just as he got there he saw Old Man Coyote coming home from an all-night hunt .
`` I hope you have had good hunting , '' said Blacky politely .
Old Man Coyote looked up at Blacky sharply .
Blacky is polite only when he wants to get something .
`` There was plenty of hunting , but little enough reward for it , '' replied Old Man Coyote .
`` What brings you over here so early ?
I should suppose you would be looking for a breakfast . ''
Now Blacky the Crow is a very wise fellow .
He knows when it is to be sly and crafty and when it is best to be frank and out-spoken .
This was a time for the latter .
`` I know where Bowser the Hound is , '' said Blacky .
`` I saw him yesterday . ''
Old Man Coyote pricked up his ears and grinned .
`` I thought he was dead , '' said he .
`` It 's a long time since we 've heard from Bowser .
Is he well ? ''
`` Quite well , '' replied Blacky , `` but unhappy .
He is homesick .
I suspect that the trouble with Bowser is that he has n't the least idea in which direction home lies .
You enjoy running , so why not go with me to pay Bowser a visit and then lead him back home ? ''
Old Man Coyote threw back his head and laughed in that crazy fashion of his till the very hills rang with the sound of his voice .
CHAPTER XXV BLACKY CALLS ON REDDY FOX Saying what you mean , and meaning what you say Are matters quite as different as night is from the day .
Bowser the Hound .
Blacky the Crow wasted no time with Old Man Coyote after he heard Old Man Coyote laugh .
There was a note in that crazy laugh of Old Man Coyote 's that told Blacky he might just as well talk to the rocks or the trees about helping Bowser the Hound .
Old Man Coyote had led Bowser into his trouble , and it was quite clear that not only did he have no regrets , but he was actually glad that Bowser was not likely to return .
`` You 're a hard-hearted old sinner , '' declared Blacky , as he prepared to fly in search of Reddy Fox .
Old Man Coyote grinned .
`` It is every one for himself , you know , '' said he .
`` Bowser would do his best to catch me if he had the chance .
So if he is in trouble , he can stay there for all of me . ''
It did n't take Blacky long to find Reddy Fox .
You see , it was so early in the morning that Reddy had not retired for his daily nap .
Like Old Man Coyote , he was just returning from a night 's hunt when Blacky arrived .
`` Hello , Reddy ! ''
exclaimed Blacky .
`` You certainly are looking in mighty fine condition .
That red coat of yours is the handsomest coat I 've ever seen .
If I had a coat like that I know I should be so swelled up with pride that I just would n't be able to see common folks .
I 'm glad you 're not that way , Reddy .
One of the things I like about you is the fact that you never allow your fine coat to make you proud .
That is more than I can say for some folks I know . ''
Reddy Fox sat down with his big bushy tail curled around to keep his toes warm , cocked his head on one side , and looked up at Blacky the Crow as if he were trying to see right inside that black head to find out what was going on there .
`` Now what has that black scamp got in his mind , '' thought Reddy .
`` He never pays compliments unless he wants something in return .
That old black rascal has the smoothest tongue in the Green Forest .
He has n't come ` way over here just to tell me that I have a handsome coat .
He would n't fly over a fence to tell anybody that unless it was for a purpose . ''
Aloud he said , `` Good morning , Blacky .
I suppose I must admit I have a fine coat .
Perhaps I do look very fine , but if you could see under this red coat of mine , you would find mighty little meat on my ribs .
To be quite honest , I am not feeling half as fine as I look .
You lucky fellows who can fly and do n't have to think about distances may be able to live well these days , but as for me , I 've forgotten when last I had a good meal . ''
CHAPTER XXVI RED WITS AND BLACK WITS This fact you 'll find is always so : He 's quick of wit who fools a Crow .
Bowser the Hound .
There is no greater flatterer in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows than Blacky the Crow when he hopes to gain something thereby .
His tongue is so smooth that it is a wonder it does not drip oil .
He is crafty , is Blacky .
But these same things are true of Reddy Fox .
No one ever yet had a chance to accuse Reddy Fox of lacking in sharp wits .
Mistakes he makes , as everybody does , but Reddy 's wits are always keen and active .
Now Reddy knew perfectly well that Blacky wanted something of him , and this was why he was saying such pleasant things .
Blacky the Crow knew that Reddy knew this thing , and that if he would make use of Reddy as he hoped to , he must contrive to keep Reddy wholly in the dark as to what he wanted done .
So as they sat there , Reddy Fox on the snow with his tail curled around his feet to keep them warm , and Blacky the Crow in the top of a little tree above Reddy 's head , they were playing a sort of game .
It was red wits against black wits .
Reddy was trying to outguess Blacky , and Blacky was trying to outguess Reddy , and both were enjoying it .
People with sharp wits always enjoy matching their wits against other sharp wits .
When Reddy Fox said that in spite of his fine appearance he had forgotten when last he had had a good meal , Blacky pretended to think he was joking .
`` You surprise me , '' said he .
`` Whatever is the matter with my good friend Reddy , that he goes hungry when he no longer has anything to fear from Bowser the Hound .
By the way , I saw Bowser the other day . ''
At this , just for an instant , Reddy 's eyes flew wide open .
Then they half closed again until they were just two yellow slits .
But quickly as he closed them , Blacky had seen that startled surprise .
`` Yes , '' said Blacky , `` I saw Bowser the other day , or at least some one who looked just like him .
Would n't you like to have him back here , Reddy ? ''
`` Most decidedly no , '' replied Reddy with great promptness .
`` A dog is a nuisance .
He is n't of any use in the wide , wide world . ''
`` Not even to drive off Old Man Coyote ? ''
asked Blacky slyly , for he knew that more than once Bowser the Hound had helped Reddy out of trouble with Old Man Coyote .
Reddy pretended not to hear this .
`` I do n't believe you saw Bowser , '' said he .
`` I do n't believe anybody will ever see Bowser again .
I hope not , anyway . ''
And Blacky knew by the way Reddy said this that it would be quite useless to ask Reddy to help get Bowser home .
CHAPTER XXVII THE ARTFULNESS OF BLACKY Who runs in circles never gets far .
Bowser the Hound .
To be artful is to be very clever .
It is to do things in a way so clever that people will not see what you are really doing .
No one can be more artful than Blacky the Crow when he sets out to be .
Blacky was smart enough not to let Reddy know that he was seeking Reddy 's help for Bowser .
He soon found out that Reddy would not knowingly help the least little bit , so he decided at once that the only thing for him to do was to get Reddy to help unsuspectingly .
He changed the subject very abruptly .
`` How are the chickens at Farmer Brown 's ? ''
inquired he .
Reddy looked up and grinned .
`` They seem to be in just as good health as ever , '' said he , `` so far as I can judge .
Farmer Brown 's boy seems to be terribly suspicious .
He locks them up at night so tight that not even Shadow the Weasel could get his nose inside that henhouse . ''
Blacky 's eyes twinkled , but he took care that Reddy should not see them .
`` Farmer Brown 's boy is different from some folks I know , '' said he .
`` How 's that ? ''
demanded Reddy Fox .
`` Why , '' replied Blacky , `` there is a certain farmyard I know of where the hens are not kept shut up at all in the daytime , but run around where they please .
I see them every day when I am flying over .
They certainly are fine-looking hens .
I do n't think I 've ever seen fatter ones .
Some of them are so fat they can hardly run . ''
As Reddy Fox listened , a look of eagerness crept into his eyes , and his mouth began to water .
He just could n't help it .
`` Where did you say those hens are ? ''
he asked , trying to speak carelessly .
`` I did n't say , '' replied Blacky , turning his head aside to hide a grin .
`` It is a long way from here , Reddy , so I do n't believe you would really be interested . ''
`` That all depends , '' replied Reddy .
`` I would go a long way if it were worth while .
I do n't suppose you noticed if there were any dogs about where those hens are ? ''
Blacky pretended not to hear this .
`` I 've often thought , '' said he , `` of you and Mrs. Reddy as I have looked down at those fat hens .
It is too bad that they are so far away . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII REDDY FOX DREAMS OF CHICKENS It 's a poor watch-dog who sleeps with both eyes closed .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox watched Blacky the Crow grow smaller and smaller until he was just a black speck in the distance .
Finally he disappeared .
Reddy looked very thoughtful .
He looked that way because he was thoughtful .
In fact , Reddy was doing a lot of hard thinking .
He was thinking about those chickens Blacky had told him of .
The more he thought of them , the hungrier he grew .
You see , Reddy had been having rather a hard time to get enough to eat .
`` Yes , Sir , '' said Reddy to himself , `` I would go a long , long distance to get a good plump hen .
I wish I knew just where that farm is that that black rascal talked about .
I wonder if he has gone that way now .
If I were sure that he has , I would make a little journey in that direction myself .
But I 'm not sure .
That black rascal flies all over the country .
That farm may lie in the direction he has gone now , and it may be in quite the opposite direction .
Somehow I 've got to find out in just which direction it is . ''
Reddy yawned , for he had been out all night , and he was sleepy .
He decided that the best thing he could do would be to get a good rest .
One must always be fit if one is to get on in this life .
The harder one must work , the more fit one should keep , and a proper amount of sleep is one of the most necessary things in keeping fit .
So Reddy curled up to sleep .
Hardly had his eyes closed when he began to dream .
You see , he had been thinking so hard about those fat hens , and he was so hungry for one of them , that right away he began to dream of fat hens .
It was a beautiful dream .
At least , it was a beautiful dream to Reddy .
Fat hens were all about him .
They were so fat that they could hardly walk .
Not only were they fat , but they seemed to think that their one object in life was to fill the stomachs of hungry foxes , for they just stood about waiting to be caught .
Never in all his life had Reddy Fox known anything so wonderful as was that dream .
There were no dogs to worry him .
There were no hunters with dreadful guns .
All he had to do was to reach out and help himself to as many fat hens as he wanted .
He ate and ate and ate , all in his dream , you know , and when he could eat no more he started for home .
When he started for home the fat hens that were left started along with him .
He led a procession of fat hens straight over to his home in the Old Pasture .
Just imagine how Reddy felt when at last he awoke and there was not so much as a feather from a fat hen anywhere about , while his stomach fairly ached with emptiness .
CHAPTER XXIX REDDY TRIES TO AROUSE BLACKY 'S PITY Trust a Fox only as far as you can see him , and lock the chickens up before you do that .
Bowser the Hound .
All the next night , as Reddy Fox hunted and hunted for something to eat , he kept thinking of that dream of fat hens , and he kept wondering how he could get Blacky the Crow to tell him just where that farm with fat hens was .
Blacky on his part had spent a whole day wondering how he could induce Reddy Fox to make that long journey over to where Bowser the Hound was a prisoner of kindness .
Blacky was smart enough to know that if he seemed too anxious for Reddy to make that long journey , Reddy would at once suspect something .
He knew well enough that if Reddy had any idea that Bowser the Hound was over there , nothing would tempt him to make the trip .
Early the next morning , just as on the morning before , Blacky stopped over by Reddy 's house .
This time Reddy was already home .
Actually he was waiting for Blacky , though he would n't have had Blacky know it for the world .
As soon as he saw Blacky coming , he lay down on his doorstep and pretended not to see Blacky at all .
`` Good morning , Reddy , '' said Blacky , as he alighted in the top of a little tree close by .
Reddy raised his head as if it were all he could do to lift it .
`` Good morning , Blacky , '' said he in a feeble voice .
Blacky looked at him sharply .
`` What 's the matter , Reddy ? ''
he demanded .
`` You seem to be feeling badly . ''
Reddy sighed .
It was a long , doleful sigh .
`` I am feeling badly , Blacky , '' said he .
`` I never felt worse in my life .
The truth is I -- I -- I -- '' Reddy paused .
`` You what ? ''
demanded Blacky , looking at Reddy more sharply than ever .
`` I am starving , '' said Reddy very feebly .
`` I certainly shall starve to death unless I can find some way of getting at least one good meal soon .
You have no idea , Blacky , how dreadful it is to be hungry all the time . ''
Again Reddy sighed , and followed this with a second sigh and then a third sigh .
Blacky looked behind him so that Reddy might not see the twinkle in his eyes .
For Blacky understood perfectly what Reddy was trying to do .
Reddy was n't fooling him a bit .
When he looked back at Reddy he was very grave .
He was doing his best to look very sympathetic .
`` I 'm right sorry to hear this , Reddy , '' said he .
`` I certainly am .
I 've been hungry myself more than once .
It seems a pity that you should be starving here when over on that farm I told you about yesterday are fat hens to be had for the taking .
If you were not so weak , I would be tempted to show you where they are . ''
CHAPTER XXX BLACKY THE CROW IS ALL PITY People who think that they are fooling others very often discover that they have been fooling themselves .
Bowser the Hound .
To have seen and heard Blacky the Crow as he talked to Reddy Fox , you would have thought that there was nothing under the sun in his heart or mind but pity .
`` Yes , Sir , '' said he , `` I certainly would be tempted to show you where those fat hens are if you were not too weak .
I just ca n't bear to see an old friend starve .
It is too bad that those fat hens are so far away .
I feel sure that one of them would make you quite yourself again . ''
`` Do n't -- do n't talk about them , '' said Reddy feebly .
`` If I could have just one fat hen that is all I would ask .
Are they so very far from here ? ''
Blacky nodded his head vigorously .
`` Yes , '' said he , `` they are a long way from here .
They are such a long way that I 'm afraid you are too weak to make the journey .
If you were quite yourself you could do it nicely , but for one in your condition it is , I fear , altogether too long a journey . ''
`` It would n't do any harm to try it , perhaps , '' suggested Reddy , in a hesitating way .
`` It is no worse to starve to death in one place than another , and I never was one to give up without trying .
If you do n't mind showing me the way , Brother Blacky , I would at least like to try to reach that place where the fat hens are .
Of course I can not keep up with you .
In fact , I could n't if I were feeling well and strong .
Perhaps you can tell me just how to find that place , and then I need n't bother you at all . ''
Blacky pretended to be lost in thought while Reddy watched him anxiously .
Finally Blacky spoke .
`` It certainly makes my heart ache to see you in such a condition , Brother Reddy , '' said he .
`` I tell you what I 'll do .
You know Crows are famous for flying in a straight line when we want to get to any place in particular .
I will fly straight towards that farm where the fat hens are .
You follow along as best you can .
In your feeble condition it will take you a long time to get anywhere near there .
This will give me time to go hunt for my own dinner , and then I will come back until I meet you .
After that , I will show you the way .
Now I will start along and you follow . ''
Reddy got to his feet as if it were hard work .
Then Blacky spread his wings and started off , cawing encouragement .
All the time inside he was laughing to think that Reddy Fox should think he had fooled him .
`` He forgot to ask again if there is a dog there , '' chuckled Blacky to himself .
As for Reddy , no sooner was Blacky well on his way than he started off at his swiftest pace .
There was nothing weak or feeble in the way Reddy ran then .
He was in a hurry to get to those fat hens .
CHAPTER XXXI BLACKY IS MUCH PLEASED WITH HIMSELF You can not tell from a single feather what a bird looks like , nor from a lone hair how big a dog is .
Bowser the Hound .
Straight away towards the farm where Bowser the Hound was flew Blacky the Crow .
Every few minutes he would caw encouragement to Reddy Fox , who , as you know , was following , but who of course could not travel as fast as did Blacky .
In between times Blacky would chuckle to himself .
He was mightily pleased with himself , was Blacky .
In the first place his plan was working beautifully .
You know what he was after was to get Reddy Fox over to that farm where Bowser was .
He hoped that if Reddy should catch one of those fat hens , the farmer would put Bowser on Reddy 's trail .
He knew that Reddy would probably return straight home , and Bowser , following Reddy 's trail , would thus find his way back home to Farmer Brown 's .
Of course , it all depended on whether Reddy would catch one of those fat hens and whether Bowser would be allowed to hunt him .
Blacky had a plan for making sure that if Reddy did get one of those hens the folks in the farmhouse would know it .
But what tickled Blacky most the knowledge that Reddy Fox thought he was fooling Blacky .
You remember that Reddy had pretended to be very weak .
Blacky knew that Reddy was nothing of the kind .
At the very first opportunity Blacky stopped in the top of a tall tree as if to rest .
His real reason for stopping was to have a chance to look back .
You see , while he was flying he could n't look behind him .
Presently , just as he expected , he saw in the distance a little red speck , and that little red speck was moving very fast indeed .
There was nothing weak or feeble in the way that red speck was coming across the snow-covered fields .
Blacky chuckled hoarsely .
Nearer and nearer came the red speck , and of course the nearer it came the larger it grew .
Presently it stopped moving fast .
It began to move slowly and stop every once in a while , as if to rest .
Blacky laughed right out .
He knew then that Reddy Fox had discovered him sitting in the top of that tall tree and was once more pretending .
It was a sort of a game , a game that Blacky thoroughly enjoyed .
As soon as he knew that Reddy had discovered him , he once more spread his black wings and started on .
The same thing happened over again .
In fact , Blacky did not fly far this time before once more waiting .
It was great fun to see Reddy suddenly pretend that he was too weak to run .
It was such fun that Blacky quite forgot that he had had no breakfast .
Yes , Blacky the Crow was very much pleased with himself .
It looked very much as if he would succeed in helping Bowser the Hound .
This pleased him .
But it pleased him still more to know that he was fooling clever Reddy Fox while Reddy thought he was the one who was doing the fooling .
CHAPTER XXXII BLACKY WAITS FOR REDDY Be wise , my friends , and do not fail To trust a dog who wags his tail .
Bowser the Hound .
Just before reaching the farm where the fat hens and Bowser the Hound were , Blacky waited for Reddy Fox to catch up .
It was some time before Reddy appeared , for he was n't traveling as fast now as when he had started out .
You see , that farm really was a very long way from the Old Pasture where Reddy lives and Reddy had run very hard , because , you know , he was so anxious to get one of those fat hens .
As soon as Blacky saw him he hid in the thick branches of a tall pine-tree .
Reddy did n't see him .
In fact , Blacky had been so far ahead that Reddy had lost sight of him some time before .
Out of the bushes trotted Reddy .
His tongue was hanging out just a little , and he was panting .
Blacky was just about to speak when Reddy stopped .
He stood as still as if he had suddenly been frozen stiff .
His sharp black ears were cocked forward , and his head was turned just a little to one side .
Reddy was listening .
He was listening for the voice of Blacky .
You see , he thought Blacky was still far ahead of him .
For several minutes Reddy stood listening with all his might , and Blacky 's sharp eyes twinkled as he looked down , watching Reddy .
Suddenly Reddy sat down .
There was an expression on his sharp face which Blacky understood perfectly .
It was quite plain that Reddy was becoming suspicious .
He had begun to suspect that he had been tricked by Blacky and led so far away from home for nothing .
Down inside Blacky chuckled .
It was a noiseless chuckle , for Blacky did not intend to give himself away until he had to .
But when at last he saw that Reddy was beginning to get uneasy , Blacky spoke .
`` You seem to be feeling better , Brother Reddy , '' said he .
`` You must excuse me for keeping you waiting , but I did not suppose that any one so weak and feeble as you appeared to be early this morning could possibly get here so soon . ''
At the sound of Blacky 's voice , Reddy was so startled that he jumped quite as if he had sat down on a prickly briar .
He was sharp enough to know that it was no longer of any use to pretend .
`` I 'm feeling better , '' said he .
`` The thought of those fat hens has quite restored my strength .
Did you say that they are near here ? ''
`` I did n't say , but -- '' Blacky did n't finish .
He did n't need to .
From the other side of a little swamp in front of them a rooster crowed .
That was answer enough !
Reddy 's yellow eyes gleamed .
In an instant he was on his feet , the picture of alertness .
`` Are you satisfied that I told the truth ? ''
asked Blacky .
Reddy nodded .
CHAPTER XXXIII REDDY WATCHES THE FAT HENS Sooner or later the crookedest trail will straighten .
Bowser the Hound .
At the sound of that rooster 's voice on the other side of the little swamp , Reddy became a changed Fox .
Could you have been sitting where you could have seen him , as did Blacky the Crow , you never , never would have guessed that Reddy had run a very long distance and was tired .
He did not even glance up at Blacky .
He did not even say thank you to Blacky for having shown him the way .
He looked neither to the right nor to the left , but with eyes fixed eagerly ahead , began to steal forward swiftly .
Making no sound , for Reddy can step very lightly when he chooses to , he trotted quickly through the little swamp until he drew near the other side .
Then he crouched close to the snow-covered ground and began to steal from bush to bush until he reached the trunk of a fallen tree on the very edge of the swamp .
To this he crawled on his stomach and peeped around the end of it .
Everything was as Blacky the Crow had said .
Not far away was a farmyard , and walking about in it was a big rooster , lording it over a large flock of fat hens .
They were not shut in by a wire fence as were Farmer Brown 's hens .
Some were taking a sun bath just in front of the barn door .
Others were scattered about , picking up bits of food which had been thrown out for them .
A few were scratching in some straw in the cowyard .
In the barn a horse stamped .
From the farmhouse sounded the voice of a woman singing .
Once the door of the farmhouse opened , and an appetizing odor floated out to tickle the nose of Reddy .
Reddy looked sharply for signs of a dog .
Not one could he see .
If there was a dog , he must be either in the barn or in the house .
It was quite clear to Reddy that no Fox had bothered this flock of fat hens .
He was sorely tempted to rush out and grab one of them at once , but he did n't .
He was far too clever to do anything like that until he was absolutely sure that it would be safe .
So Reddy lay flat behind the old tree trunk , with just his nose and his eyes showing around the end of it , and studied what would be best to do .
He was sure that he could get one of those fat hens , but he wanted more .
Early that morning Reddy would have been quite contented with one , but now that he was sure that he could get one , he wanted more .
If he were too bold and frightened those hens while catching one , they would make such a racket that they would be sure to bring some one from the farmhouse .
The thing to do was to be patient until he could catch one without alarming the others .
Then perhaps he would be able to catch another .
Reddy decided to be patient and wait .
CHAPTER XXXIV PATIENCE AND IMPATIENCE Patience is a virtue In a cause that 's right .
In a cause that is n't , It 's a cause for fright .
Bowser the Hound .
One of the first things that the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who hunt other little people learn is patience .
Sometimes it takes a long time to learn this , but it is a necessary lesson .
Reddy Fox had learned it .
Reddy knew that often even his cleverness would not succeed without patience .
When he was young he had lost many a good meal through impatience .
Reddy could not remember when he had been more hungry than he was now .
Lying there behind the fallen tree , watching the fat hens walking about unsuspectingly just a little way from him , it seemed to him that he simply must rush out and catch one of them .
But Reddy was smart enough to know that if he did this there would at once be such a screaming and squawking that some one would be sure to rush out from the farmhouse to find out what was going on .
If he were discovered , there would be small chance for him to get another fat hen .
Reddy is keen enough to make the most of an opportunity .
He knew that if he could get one of these hens without frightening the others , he would have a chance to get another .
He might have a chance to get several in this way .
So , though he was so eager and so hungry , he made himself keep perfectly still , while he studied out a plan .
By and by he stole ever so carefully around back of the barn to the cowyard .
Some of those fat hens were scratching in the straw of the cowyard .
Just outside the cowyard was a pile of old boards .
Reddy crawled behind this pile of old boards and then crouched and settled himself to be patient .
He knew that sooner or later one of those fat hens would be likely to come out of the cowyard .
In this way he might be able to catch one without the others knowing a thing about it .
Blacky the Crow sat in the top of a tall tree where he could see all that was going on .
Blacky was as impatient as Reddy was patient .
`` Why does n't the red rascal rush in and get one of those fat hens ? ''
muttered Blacky .
`` What is the matter with him , anyway ?
I wonder if he is afraid .
He could catch one of them without half trying , and there he lies as if he expected them to run right into his mouth .
I do n't want to sit here all day .
Yet I ca n't do a thing until he catches one of those hens . ''
So Reddy waited patiently and Blacky waited impatiently , and the fat hens wandered about unsuspectingly , and for a long , long time nothing happened .
CHAPTER XXXV THINGS HAPPEN ALL AT ONCE The cleverest Fox is almost certain to visit the chicken yard once too often .
Bowser the Hound .
Jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun , high in the blue , blue sky , looked down on as peaceful a scene as ever was .
In the cowyard back of the barn of this particular farm stood several cows contentedly chewing their cuds as they took their daily airing .
Half a dozen fat hens were walking about among them and scratching in the straw .
Out in the farmyard in front of the barn were many more fat hens .
Behind a pile of old boards just outside the cowyard was a spot of red .
In the top of a tall tree not far distant was a spot of black .
The smoke from the chimney of the farmhouse floated skyward in a lazy way .
Looking down on the Great World , jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun saw no more peaceful scene anywhere .
By and by a fat hen walked over to the bars of the cowyard and hopped up on the lower bar .
There she sat for some time .
Then , making up her mind that she would see what was outside , she hopped down and walked over to the pile of old boards .
Right then things happened all at once .
That red spot behind the pile of old boards suddenly came to life .
There was a quick spring , and that fat hen was seized by the neck so suddenly that she did n't have time to make a sound .
At the same instant the black spot in the top of the tall tree came to life , and Blacky the Crow flew over to the roof of the barn , screaming at the top of his lungs .
Now those who know Blacky well , know when he is screaming `` Fox !
Fox !
Fox ! ''
although it sounds as if he were saying `` Caw !
Caw !
Caw ! ''
In a moment the door of the farmhouse flew open , and a man stepped out with a dog at his heels .
The man looked up at Blacky , and he knew by Blacky 's actions that something was going on back of the barn .
Right away he guessed that there must be a Fox there , and calling the dog to follow , he ran around to see what was happening .
Of course Reddy heard him coming , and with a little snarl of anger at Blacky the Crow , he seized the fat hen by the neck , threw her body over his shoulder , and started for the near-by swamp as fast as his legs could take him .
Just as Reddy reached the edge of the swamp , he heard the roar of a great voice behind him .
He knew that voice .
It was the voice of Bowser the Hound .
It could be no one else but Bowser who was behind him , for there was no other voice quite like his .
Dismay awoke in Reddy 's heart .
He knew that Bowser was wise to the tricks of Foxes , and that he would have to use all his cunning to get rid of Bowser .
To do it he would have to drop that fat hen he had come so far to get .
Do you wonder that Reddy was dismayed ?
CHAPTER XXXVI REDDY HIDES THE FAT HEN Dishonesty will run away Where Honesty will boldly stay .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox was in a fix !
He certainly was in a fix !
Here he was with the fat hen which he had come such a long , long way to get , and no chance to eat it , for Bowser the Hound was on his trail .
Ordinarily Reddy Fox can run faster than can Bowser , but it is one thing to run with nothing to carry , and another thing altogether to with a burden as heavy as a fat hen .
Reddy 's wits were working quite as fast as his legs .
`` I ca n't carry this fat hen far , '' thought Reddy , `` for Bowser will surely catch me .
I do n't want to drop it , because I have come such a long way to get it , and goodness knows when I will be able to catch another .
The thing for me to do is to hide it where I can come back and get it after I get rid of that pesky dog .
Goodness , what a noise he makes ! ''
As he ran , Reddy watched sharply this way and that way for a place to hide the fat hen .
He knew he must find a place soon , because already that fat hen was growing very heavy .
Presently he spied the hollow stump of a tree .
He did n't know it was hollow when he first saw it , but from its looks he thought it might be .
The top of it was only about two feet above the ground .
Reddy stopped and stood up on his hind legs so as to see if the top of that stump was hollow .
It was .
With a quick look this way and that way to make sure he was n't seen , he tossed the fat hen over into the hollow and then , with a sigh of relief , darted away .
With the weight of that fat hen off his shoulders , and the worry about it off his mind , Reddy could give all his attention to getting rid of Bowser the Hound .
He had no intention of running any farther than he must .
In the first place he had traveled so far that he did not feel like running .
In the second place he wanted to get back to that hollow stump and the fat hen just as soon as possible .
It was n't long before Reddy realized that it was not going to be so easy to fool Bowser the Hound .
Bowser was too wise to be fooled by common tricks such as breaking the trail by jumping far to one side after running back on his own tracks a little way ; or by running along a fallen tree and jumping from the end of it as far as he could .
Of course he tried these tricks , but each time Bowser simply made a big circle with his nose to the ground and picked up Reddy 's new trail .
Reddy did n't know that country about there at all , and little by little he began to realize how much this meant .
At home he knew every foot of the ground for a long distance in every direction .
This made all the difference in the world , because he knew just how to play all kinds of tricks .
But here it was different .
It seemed to him that all he could do was to run and run .
CHAPTER XXXVII FARMER BROWN 'S BOY HAS A GLAD SURPRISE The sweetest sound in the world is the voice of one you love .
Bowser the Hound .
Farmer Brown 's boy had an errand which took him far from home .
He harnessed the horse to a sleigh and started off right after dinner .
Now it happened that his errand took him in the direction of the farm where Bowser the Hound had been taken such good care of , and where Reddy Fox had that very day caught the fat hen .
Farmer Brown 's boy was not thinking of Bowser .
You see , he had already visited most of the farms in that direction in his search for Bowser and had found no trace of him .
It was a beautiful day to be sleighing , and Farmer Brown 's boy was whistling merrily , for there is nothing he enjoys more than a sleigh ride .
He had almost reached the place he had started for when ` way off across the fields to his right he heard a dog .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy enjoys listening to the sound of a Hound chasing a Fox .
There is something about it which stirs the blood .
He stopped whistling and stopped the horse in order that he might listen better .
At first that sound was very , very faint , but as Farmer Brown 's boy listened , it grew louder and clearer .
Suddenly Farmer Brown 's boy leaped up excitedly .
`` That 's Bowser ! ''
he cried .
`` As sure as I live that 's good old Bowser !
I would know that voice among a million ! ''
He leaped from the sleigh and tied the horse .
Then he climbed over the fence and began to run across the snow-covered fields .
He could tell from the sound in what direction Bowser was running .
He could tell from the appearance of the country about where Reddy Fox would be likely to lead Bowser , and he ran for a place which he felt sure Reddy would be likely to pass .
Louder and louder sounded the great voice of Bowser , and faster and faster ran Farmer Brown 's boy to reach that place before Bowser should pass .
The louder that great voice sounded , the more absolutely certain Farmer Brown 's boy became that it was the voice of Bowser , and a great joy filled his heart .
At last he reached an old road .
He felt certain that Reddy would follow that road .
So he hid behind an old stone wall on the edge of it .
He did not have long to wait .
A red form appeared around a turn in the old road , running swiftly .
Then it stopped and stood perfectly still .
Of course it was Reddy Fox .
He was listening to make sure just how far behind him Bowser was .
He listened for only a moment and then started on as swiftly as before .
Right down the road past Farmer Brown 's boy Reddy ran , and never once suspected he was being watched .
A few minutes later another form appeared around the turn in the road .
It was Bowser !
Yes , Sir , it was Bowser !
With a glad cry Farmer Brown 's boy jumped over the stone wall and waited .
CHAPTER XXXVIII REDDY GOES BACK FOR HIS FAT HEN Joy will make a puppy of an old dog .
Bowser the Hound .
When Bowser the Hound is following the trail of Reddy Fox , it takes a great deal to make him leave that trail .
His love of the hunt is so great that , as a rule , nothing short of losing the trail will make him stop .
He will follow it until he can not follow it any longer .
But for once Bowser actually forgot that he was following Reddy Fox .
Yes , Sir , he did .
As he came down that old road with his nose in Reddy 's tracks , he was so intent on what he was doing that he did n't see Farmer Brown 's boy waiting for him .
He did n't see him until he almost ran into him .
For just a second Bowser stared in utter surprise .
Then with a little yelp of pure joy he leaped up and did his best to lick his master 's face .
Could you have seen Bowser , you might have thought that he was just a foolish young puppy , he cut up such wild antics to express his joy .
He yelped and whined and barked .
He nearly knocked Farmer Brown 's boy down by leaping up on him .
He raced around in circles .
When at last he was still long enough , Farmer Brown 's boy just threw his arms around him and hugged him .
He hugged him so hard he made Bowser squeal .
Then two of the happiest folks in all the Great World started back across the snow-covered fields to the sleigh .
Bowser and Farmer Brown 's boy were not the only ones who rejoiced .
Reddy Fox had been badly worried .
Although he had tried every trick he could think of , he had not been able to get rid of Bowser , and he had just about made up his mind that there was nothing for it but to start back to the Old Pasture which was so far away .
That would mean giving up the fat hen which he had hidden in the hollow stump .
Of course , Reddy knew the instant that Bowser began to yelp and bark that something had happened .
What it was he could n't imagine .
He sat down to wait and listen .
Then he heard the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Reddy knew that voice and he grinned , for he felt sure that Bowser would give up the hunt .
He grinned because now he would have a chance to go back for that fat hen .
At the same time that grin was not wholly a happy grin , because Reddy knew that now Bowser would return to his home .
Presently Reddy very carefully crept back to a place where he could see what was going on .
He watched Farmer Brown 's boy start back for the road and the sleigh , with Bowser jumping up on him and racing around him like a foolish young puppy .
He waited only long enough to make sure that Bowser would not come back ; then he turned and trotted swiftly along his own back trail towards that hollow stump into which he had tossed that fat hen .
Reddy 's thoughts were very pleasant thoughts , for they were all of the fine dinner of which he now felt sure .
CHAPTER XXXIX A VANISHED DINNER This fact you 'll find where'er you go Is true of Fox or Dog or Man : Dishonesty has never paid , And , what is more , it never can .
Bowser the Hound .
Very pleasant were the thoughts of Reddy Fox as he trotted back to the swamp where was the hollow stump in which he had hidden the fat hen he had stolen .
Yes , Sir , very pleasant were the thoughts of Reddy Fox .
He felt sure that no dinner he had ever eaten had tasted anywhere near as good as would the dinner he was about to enjoy .
In the first place his stomach had not been really filled for a long time .
Food had been scarce , and while Reddy had always obtained enough to keep from starving , it was a long time since he had had a really good meal .
He had , you remember , traveled a very long distance to catch that fat hen , and it had been many hours since he had had a bite of anything .
There is nothing like a good appetite to make things taste good .
Reddy certainly had the appetite to make that fat hen the finest dinner a Fox ever ate .
So , with pleasant thoughts of the feast to come , Reddy trotted along swiftly .
Presently he reached the little swamp in which was the hollow stump .
As he drew near it , he moved very carefully .
You see , he was not quite sure that all was safe .
He knew that the farmer from whom he had stolen that fat hen had seen him run away with it , and he feared that that farmer might be hiding somewhere about with a terrible gun .
So Reddy used his eyes and his ears and his nose as only he can use them .
All seemed safe .
It was as still in that little swamp as if no living creature had ever visited it .
Stopping every few steps to look , listen , and sniff , Reddy approached that hollow stump .
Quite certain in his own mind that there was no danger , Reddy lightly leaped up on the old stump and peeped into the hollow in the top .
Then he blinked his eyes very fast indeed .
If ever there has been a surprised Fox in all the Great World that one was Reddy .
There was no fat hen in that hollow !
Reddy could n't believe it .
He would n't believe it .
That fat hen just had to be there .
He blinked his eyes some more and looked again .
All he saw in that hollow stump was a feather .
The fat hen had vanished .
All Reddy 's dreams of a good dinner vanished too .
A great rage took their place .
Somebody had stolen his fat hen !
Reddy looked about him hurriedly and anxiously .
There was n't a sign of anybody about , or that anybody had been there .
Reddy 's anger began to give place to wonder and then to something very like fear .
How could anybody have taken that fat hen and left no trace ?
And how could a fat hen with a broken neck disappear of its own accord ?
It gave Reddy a creepy feeling .
CHAPTER XL WHERE WAS REDDY 'S DINNER ?
Often it is better to look for a new trail than to waste time hunting for an old one .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox is used to all sorts of queer happenings .
Yes , Sir , he is used to all sorts of queer happenings , and as a rule Reddy is seldom puzzled for long .
You see he is such a clever fellow himself that any one clever enough to fool him for long must be very clever indeed .
This time , however , all the cleverness of his sharp wits did him no good .
The fat hen he had hidden in a hollow stump had disappeared without leaving trace .
Reddy 's first thought was that probably the farmer from whom he had stolen the fat hen had found it and taken it away .
At once he began to use that wonderful nose of his searching for the scent of that farmer .
Very carefully he sniffed all about the top of that old stump and inside the hollow .
There was n't the faintest scent of anybody there .
Then he jumped down , and with his nose to the ground , ran all around the stump , sniffing , sniffing , sniffing .
The only thing he discovered was the scent of Bowser the Hound , and he knew that Bowser had not taken that fat hen , because , as you remember , Bowser had kept right on chasing him .
Reddy began to feel afraid of that old stump .
People usually are afraid of mysterious things , and it certainly was very mysterious that a fat hen with a broken neck should disappear without leaving any trace at all .
Reddy sat down at a little distance and did a lot of hard thinking .
He looked every which way even up in the tree tops , but all his looking was in vain .
It was so mysterious that if he had n't known positively that he was awake he would have thought it was all a dream .
But Reddy is something of a philosopher .
That fat hen was gone , and there was no use in wasting time puzzling over it .
There were other fat hens where that one came from , and he would just have to catch another .
So Reddy trotted through the swamp till he came to the edge of it .
There his keen nose found the scent of the farmer .
It did n't take him two minutes to discover that the farmer had followed Bowser the Hound to the edge of the swamp and then gone back .
Eagerly Reddy looked over to the farmyard for those fat hens .
They , too , had disappeared .
Not one was to be seen .
But there was no mystery about the disappearance of these other fat hens .
He heard the muffled crow of the big rooster .
It came from the henhouse .
All those fat hens had been shut up .
It was perfectly plain to Reddy that the farmer suspected Reddy might return , and he did n't intend to lose another fat hen .
With a little yelp of disappointment , Reddy turned his back on the farm and trotted off into the woods .
CHAPTER XLI WHAT BLACKY THE CROW SAW The greatest puzzle is simple enough when you know the answer .
Bowser the Hound .
There were just two people to whom the disappearance of that fat hen Reddy Fox had hidden in the hollow stump was not a mystery .
One of them was Blacky the Crow .
When the farmer and Bowser the Hound had rushed out at the sound of Blacky 's excited cawing , Blacky had flown to the top of a tall tree from which he could see all that went on .
Everything had happened just as Blacky had hoped it would .
Bowser had taken the trail of Reddy Fox , and Blacky felt sure that sooner or later Reddy would lead him back home to Farmer Brown 's .
Blacky was doubly pleased with himself .
He was pleased to think that he had found a way of getting Bowser back home , and he was quite as much pleased because he had been smart enough to outwit Reddy Fox .
He did n't wish Reddy any harm , and he felt sure that no harm would come to him .
He did n't even wish him to lose that dinner Reddy had come so far to get , but he did n't care if Reddy did lose it , if only his plan worked out as he hoped it would .
`` I wonder what he 'll do with that fat hen , '' muttered Blacky , as he watched Reddy race away with it thrown over his shoulders .
`` He ca n't carry that hen far and keep out of the way of Bowser .
I think I 'll follow and see what he does with it . ''
So Blacky followed , and his eyes twinkled when he saw Reddy hide the fat hen in the hollow stump .
He knew that no matter how far Bowser might chase Reddy , Reddy would come back for that fat hen , and he was rather glad to think that Reddy would have that good dinner after all .
`` No one will ever think to look in that hollow stump , '' thought Blacky , `` and I certainly will not tell any one .
Reddy has earned that dinner .
Now I think I 'll go get something to eat myself . ''
At that very instant Blacky 's sharp eyes caught a glimpse of a gray form with broad wings , and in a perfect panic of fear Blacky began to fly as fast as he knew how for a thick spruce-tree not far away .
He plunged in among the branches and hid in the thickest part he could find .
With little shivers of fear running all over him , he peeked out and watched that big gray form .
On broad wings it sailed over to that hollow stump .
Two long legs with great curving claws reached down in , and a moment later that fat hen was disappearing over the tree tops .
Blacky sighed with relief .
-LSB- Illustration : ON BROAD WINGS IT SAILED OVER TO THAT HOLLOW STUMP .
Page 199 .
-RSB- `` It 's a lucky thing for me that robber , Mr. Goshawk , saw Reddy hide that fat hen , '' muttered Blacky .
`` If he had n't , he might have caught me , for I did n't see him at all . ''
CHAPTER XLII ALL IS WELL THAT ENDS WELL When things go wrong , just patient be Until the end you plainly see .
For often things that seem all bad Will end by making all hands glad .
Bowser the Hound .
Reddy Fox , trotting homeward , had nothing but bitterness in his heart , and nothing at all in his stomach .
He was tired and hungry and bitterly disappointed .
He was in a country with which he was not familiar , and so he did not know where to hunt , and he felt that he just must get something to eat .
Do what he would , he could n't help thinking about that fat hen he had hidden and which had so mysteriously disappeared .
The more he thought of it , the worse he felt .
It was bad enough to be hungry and have no idea where the next meal was coming from , but it was many times worse to have had that meal and then lose it .
To Reddy , everything was all wrong .
Now on his way home Ready had to pass several farms .
Hunger made him bold , and at each farm he stole softly as near as possible to the farmyard , hoping that he might find more fat hens unguarded .
Now it happened that that afternoon a farmer at one of these farms was preparing some chickens to be taken to market early the next morning .
He was picking these chickens in a shed attached to the barn .
He had several all picked when he was called to the house on an errand .
It happened that just after he had disappeared Reddy Fox came stealing around from behind the barn , and at once he smelled those chickens .
Just imagine how Reddy felt when he peeped in that shed and saw those fine chickens just waiting for him .
Two minutes later Reddy was racing back to the woods with one of them .
This time there was no dog behind him .
And in a little hollow Reddy ate the finest dinner he ever had had .
You see there were no feathers to bother him on that chicken , for it had been picked .
When the last bit had disappeared , Reddy once more started for home , and this time he was happy , for his stomach was full .
Long before Reddy got back to the Old Pasture Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound had reached home .
Such a fuss as everybody did make over Bowser .
It seemed as if each one at Farmer Brown 's was trying to spoil Bowser .
As for Bowser himself , he was the happiest dog in all the Great World .
Blacky the Crow got back to the Green Forest near Farmer Brown 's just before jolly , round Mr. Sun went to bed .
Blacky had found plenty to eat and he had seen no more of fierce Mr. Goshawk .
As Blacky settled himself on his roost he heard from the direction of Farmer Brown 's house a great voice .
It was the voice of Bowser the Hound trying to express his joy in being home .
Blacky chuckled contentedly .
He , too , was happy , for it always makes one happy to have one 's plans succeed .
`` All 's well that end 's well , '' he chuckled , and closed his eyes sleepily .
Blacky never could have fooled old Granny Fox as he did Reddy .
She is far too smart to be fooled even by so clever a scamp as Blacky .
She is so smart that she deserves a book all her own , and so the next volume in this series will be Old Granny Fox .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Lightfoot_the_Deer.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Peter Rabbit Meets Lightfoot Peter Rabbit was on his way back from the pond of Paddy the Beaver deep in the Green Forest .
He had just seen Mr. and Mrs. Quack start toward the Big River for a brief visit before leaving on their long , difficult journey to the far-away Southland .
Farewells are always rather sad , and this particular farewell had left Peter with a lump in his throat , -- a queer , choky feeling .
`` If I were sure that they would return next spring , it would n't be so bad , '' he muttered .
`` It 's those terrible guns .
I know what it is to have to watch out for them .
Farmer Brown 's boy used to hunt me with one of them , but he does n't any more .
But even when he did hunt me it was n't anything like what the Ducks have to go through .
If I kept my eyes and ears open , I could tell when a hunter was coming and could hide in a hole if I wanted to .
I never had to worry about my meals .
But with the Ducks it is a thousand times worse .
They 've got to eat while making that long journey , and they can eat only where there is the right kind of food .
Hunters with terrible guns know where those places are and hide there until the Ducks come , and the Ducks have no way of knowing whether the hunters are waiting for them or not .
That is n't hunting .
It 's -- it 's -- '' `` Well , what is it ?
What are you talking to yourself about , Peter Rabbit ? ''
Peter looked up with a start to find the soft , beautiful eyes of Lightfoot the Deer gazing down at him over the top of a little hemlock tree .
`` It 's awful , '' declared Peter .
`` It 's worse than unfair .
It does n't give them any chance at all . ''
`` I suppose it must be so if you say so , '' replied Lightfoot , `` but you might tell me what all this awfulness is about . ''
Peter grinned .
Then he began at the beginning and told Lightfoot all about Mr. and Mrs. Quack and the many dangers they must face on their long journey to the far-away Southland and back again in the spring , all because of the heartless hunters with terrible guns .
Lightfoot listened and his great soft eyes were filled with pity for the Quack family .
`` I hope they will get through all right , '' said he , `` and I hope they will get back in the spring .
It is bad enough to be hunted by men at one time of the year , as no one knows better than I do , but to be hunted in the spring as well as in the fall is more than twice as bad .
Men are strange creatures .
I do not understand them at all .
None of the people of the Green Forest would think of doing such terrible things .
I suppose it is quite right to hunt others in order to get enough to eat , though I am thankful to say that I never have had to do that , but to hunt others just for the fun of hunting is something I can not understand at all .
And yet that is what men seem to do it for .
I guess the trouble is they never have been hunted themselves and do n't know how it feels .
Sometimes I think I 'll hunt one some day just to teach him a lesson .
What are you laughing at , Peter ? ''
`` At the idea of you hunting a man , '' replied Peter .
`` Your heart is all right , Lightfoot , but you are too timid and gentle to frighten any one .
Big as you are I would n't fear you . ''
With a single swift bound Lightfoot sprang out in front of Peter .
He stamped his sharp hoofs , lowered his handsome head until the sharp points of his antlers , which people call horns , pointed straight at Peter , lifted the hair along the back of his neck , and made a motion as if to plunge at him .
His eyes , which Peter had always thought so soft and gentle , seemed to flash fire .
`` Oh ! ''
cried Peter in a faint , frightened-sounding voice and leaped to one side before it entered his foolish little head that Lightfoot was just pretending .
Lightfoot chuckled .
`` Did you say I could n't frighten any one ? ''
he demanded .
`` I -- I did n't know you could look so terribly fierce , '' stammered Peter .
`` Those antlers look really dangerous when you point them that way .
Why -- why -- what is that hanging to them ?
It looks like bits of old fur .
Have you been tearing somebody 's coat , Lightfoot ? ''
Peter 's eyes were wide with wonder and suspicion .
CHAPTER II : Lightfoot 's New Antlers Peter Rabbit was puzzled .
He stared at Lightfoot the Deer a wee bit suspiciously .
`` Have you been tearing somebody 's coat ? ''
he asked again .
He did n't like to think it of Lightfoot , whom he always had believed quite as gentle , harmless , and timid as himself .
But what else could he think ?
Lightfoot slowly shook his head .
`` No , '' said he , `` I have n't torn anybody 's coat . ''
`` Then what are those rags hanging on your antlers ? ''
demanded Peter .
Lightfoot chuckled .
`` They are what is left of the coverings of my new antlers , '' he explained .
`` What 's that ?
What do you mean by new antlers ? ''
Peter was sitting up very straight , with his eyes fixed on Lightfoot 's antlers as though he never had seen them before .
`` Just what I said , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` What do you think of them ?
I think they are the finest antlers I 've ever had .
When I get the rest of those rags off , they will be as handsome a set as ever was grown in the Green Forest . ''
Lightfoot rubbed his antlers against the trunk of a tree till some of the rags hanging to them dropped off .
Peter blinked very hard .
He was trying to understand and he could n't .
Finally he said so .
`` What kind of a story are you trying to fill me up with ? ''
he demanded indignantly .
`` Do you mean to tell me that those are not the antlers that you have had as long as I 've known you ?
How can anything hard like those antlers grow ?
And if those are new ones , where are the old ones ?
Show me the old ones , and perhaps I 'll believe that these are new ones .
The idea of trying to make me believe that antlers grow just like plants !
I 've seen Bossy the Cow all summer and I know she has got the same horns she had last summer .
New antlers indeed ! ''
`` You are quite right , Peter , quite right about Bossy the Cow .
She never has new horns , but that is n't any reason why I should n't have new antlers , is it ? ''
replied Lightfoot patiently .
`` Her horns are quite different from my antlers .
I have a new pair every year .
You have n't seen me all summer , have you , Peter ? ''
`` No , I do n't remember that I have , '' replied Peter , trying very hard to remember when he had last seen Lightfoot .
`` I KNOW you have n't , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` I know it because I have been hiding in a place you never visit . ''
`` What have you been hiding for ? ''
demanded Peter .
`` For my new antlers to grow , '' replied Lightfoot .
`` When my new antlers are growing , I want to be away by myself .
I do n't like to be seen without them or with halfgrown ones .
Besides , I am very uncomfortable while the new antlers are growing and I want to be alone . ''
Lightfoot spoke as if he really meant every word he said , but still Peter could n't , he just COULD N'T believe that those wonderful great antlers had grown out of Lightfoot 's head in a single summer .
`` Where did you leave your old ones and when did they come off ? ''
he asked , and there was doubt in the very tone of his voice .
`` They dropped off last spring , but I do n't remember just where , '' replied Lightfoot .
`` I was too glad to be rid of them to notice where they dropped .
You see they were loose and uncomfortable , and I had n't any more use for them because I knew that my new ones would be bigger and better .
I 've got one more point on each than I had last year . ''
Lightfoot began once more to rub his antlers against the tree to get off the queer rags hanging to them and to polish the points .
Peter watched in silence for a few minutes .
Then , all his suspicions returning , he said : `` But you have n't told me anything about those rags hanging to your antlers . ''
`` And you have n't believed what I have already told you , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` I do n't like telling things to people who wo n't believe me . ''
CHAPTER III : Lightfoot Tells How His Antlers Grew It is hard to believe what seems impossible .
And yet what seems impossible to you may be a very commonplace matter to some one else .
So it does not do to say that a thing can not be possible just because you can not understand how it can be .
Peter Rabbit wanted to believe what Lightfoot the Deer had just told him , but somehow he could n't .
If he had seen those antlers growing , it would have been another matter .
But he had n't seen Lightfoot since the very last of winter , and then Lightfoot had worn just such handsome antlers as he now had .
So Peter really could n't be blamed for not being able to believe that those old ones had been lost and in their place new ones had grown in just the few months of spring and summer .
But Peter did n't blame Lightfoot in the least , because he had told Peter that he did n't like to tell things to people who would n't believe what he told them when Peter had asked him about the rags hanging to his antlers .
`` I 'm trying to believe it , '' he said , quite humbly .
`` It 's all true , '' broke in another voice .
Peter jumped and turned to find his big cousin , Jumper the Hare .
Unseen and unheard , he had stolen up and had overheard what Peter and Lightfoot had said .
`` How do you know it is true ? ''
snapped Peter a little crossly , for Jumper had startled him .
`` Because I saw Lightfoot 's old antlers after they had fallen off , and I often saw Lightfoot while his new ones were growing , '' retorted Jumper .
`` All right !
I 'll believe anything that Lightfoot tells me if you say it is true , '' declared Peter , who greatly admires his cousin , Jumper .
`` Now tell me about those rags , Lightfoot .
Please do . ''
Lightfoot could n't resist that `` please . ''
`` Those rags are what is left of a kind of covering which protected the antlers while they were growing , as I told you before , '' said he .
`` Very soon after my old ones dropped off the new ones began to grow .
They were not hard , not at all like they are now .
They were soft and very tender , and the blood ran through them just as it does through our bodies .
They were covered with a sort of skin with hairs on it like thin fur .
The ends were not sharply pointed they now are , but were big and rounded , like knobs .
They were not like antlers at all , and they made my head hot and were very uncomfortable .
That is why I hid away .
They grew very fast , so fast that every day I could see by looking at my reflection in water that they were a little longer .
It seemed to me sometimes as if all my strength went into those new antlers .
And I had to be very careful not to hit them against anything .
In the first place it would have hurt , and in the second place it might have spoiled the shape of them .
`` When they had grown to the length you now see , they began to shrink and grow hard .
The knobs on the ends shrank until they became pointed .
As soon as they stopped growing the blood stopped flowing up in them , and as they became hard they were no longer tender .
The skin which had covered them grew dry and split , and I rubbed it off on trees and bushes .
The little rags you see are what is left , but I will soon be rid of those .
Then I shall be ready to fight if need be and will fear no one save man , and will fear him only when he has a terrible gun with him . ''
Lightfoot tossed his head proudly and rattled his wonderful antlers against the nearest tree .
`` Is n't he handsome , '' whispered Peter to Jumper the Hare ; `` and did you ever hear of anything so wonderful as the growing of those new antlers in such a short time ?
It is hard to believe , but I suppose it must be true . ''
`` It is , '' replied Jumper , `` and I tell you , Peter , I would hate to have Lightfoot try those antlers on me , even though I were big as a man .
You 've always thought of Lightfoot as timid and afraid , but you should see him when he is angry .
Few people care to face him then . ''
CHAPTER IV : The Spirit Of Fear When the days grow cold and the nights are clear , There stalks abroad the spirit of fear .
-- Lightfoot the Deer .
It is sad but true .
Autumn is often called the sad time of the year , and it is the sad time .
But it should n't be .
Old Mother Nature never intended that it should be .
She meant it to be the GLAD time .
It is the time when all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows have got over the cares and worries of bringing up families and teaching their children how to look out for themselves .
It is the season when food is plentiful , and every one is fat and is , or ought to be , care free .
It is the season when Old Mother Nature intended all her little people to be happy , to have nothing to worry them for the little time before the coming of cold weather and the hard times which cold weather always brings .
But instead of this , a grim , dark figure goes stalking over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , and it is called the Spirit of Fear .
It peers into every hiding-place and wherever it finds one of the little people it sends little cold chills over him , little chills which jolly , round , bright Mr. Sun can not chase away , though he shine his brightest .
All night as well as all day the Spirit of Fear searches out the little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest .
It will not let them sleep .
It will not let them eat in peace .
It drives them to seek new hiding-places and then drives them out of those .
It keeps them ever ready to fly or run at the slightest sound .
Peter Rabbit was thinking of this as he sat at the edge of the dear Old Briar-patch , looking over to the Green Forest .
The Green Forest was no longer just green ; it was of many colors , for Old Mother Nature had set Jack Frost to painting the leaves of the maple-trees and the beech-trees , and the birch-trees and the poplar-trees and the chestnut-trees , and he had done his work well .
Very , very lovely were the reds and yellows and browns against the dark green of the pines and the spruces and the hemlocks .
The Purple Hills were more softly purple than at any other season of the year .
It was all very , very beautiful .
But Peter had no thought for the beauty of it all , for the Spirit of Fear had visited even the dear Old Briar-patch , and Peter was afraid .
It was n't fear of Reddy Fox , or Redtail the Hawk , or Hooty the Owl , or Old Man Coyote .
They were forever trying to catch him , but they did not strike terror to his heart because he felt quite smart enough to keep out of their clutches .
To be sure , they gave him sudden frights sometimes , when they happened to surprise him , but these frights lasted only until he reached the nearest bramble-tangle or hollow log where they could not get at him .
But the fear that chilled his heart now never left him even for a moment .
And Peter knew that this same fear was clutching at the hearts of Bob White , hiding in the brown stubble ; of Mrs. Grouse , squatting in the thickest bramble-tangle in the Green Forest ; of Uncle Billy Possum and Bobby Coon in their hollow trees ; of Jerry Muskrat in the Smiling Pool ; of Happy Jack Squirrel , hiding in the tree tops ; of Lightfoot the Deer , lying in the closest thicket he could find .
It was even clutching at the hearts of Granny and Reddy Fox and of great , big Buster Bear .
It seemed to Peter that no one was so big or so small that this terrible Spirit of Fear had not searched him out .
Far in the distance sounded a sudden bang .
Peter jumped and shivered .
He knew that every one else who had heard that bang had jumped and shivered just as he had .
It was the season of hunters with terrible guns .
It was man who had sent this terrible Spirit of Fear to chill the hearts of the little meadow and forest people at this very time when Old Mother Nature had made all things so beautiful and had intended that they should be happiest and most free from care and worry .
It was man who had made the autumn a sad time instead of a glad time , the very saddest time of all the year , when Old Mother Nature had done her best to make it the most beautiful .
`` I do n't understand these men creatures , '' said Peter to little Mrs. Peter , as they stared fearfully out from the dear Old Briar-patch .
`` They seem to find pleasure , actually find pleasure , in trying to kill us .
I do n't understand them at all .
They have n't any hearts .
That must be the reason ; they have n't any hearts . ''
CHAPTER V : Sammy Jay Brings Lightfoot Word Sammy Jay is one of those who believe in the wisdom of the old saying , `` Early to bed and early to rise . ''
Sammy needs no alarm clock to get up early in the morning .
He is awake as soon as it is light enough to see and wastes no time wishing he could sleep a little longer .
His stomach would n't let him if he wanted to .
Sammy always wakes up hungry .
In this he is no different from all his feathered neighbors .
So the minute Sammy gets his eyes open he makes his toilet , for Sammy is very neat , and starts out to hunt for his breakfast .
Long ago Sammy discovered that there is no safer time of day to visit the dooryards of those two-legged creatures called men than very early in the morning .
On this particular morning he had planned to fly over to Farmer Brown 's dooryard , but at the last minute he changed his mind .
Instead , he flew over to the dooryard of another farm .
It was so very early in the morning that Sammy did n't expect to find anybody stirring , so you can guess how surprised he was when , just as he came in sight of that dooryard , he saw the door of the house open and a man step out .
Sammy stopped on the top of the nearest tree .
`` Now what is that man doing up as early as this ? ''
muttered Sammy .
Then he caught sight of something under the man 's arm .
He did n't have to look twice to know what it was .
It was a gun !
Yes , sir , it was a gun , a terrible gun .
`` Ha ! ''
exclaimed Sammy , and quite forgot that his stomach was empty .
`` Now who can that fellow be after so early in the morning ?
I wonder if he is going to the dear Old Briar-patch to look for Peter Rabbit , or if he is going to the Old Pasture in search of Reddy Fox , or if it is Mr. and Mrs. Grouse he hopes to kill .
I think I 'll sit right here and watch . ''
So Sammy sat in the top of the tree and watched the hunter with the terrible gun .
He saw him head straight for the Green Forest .
`` It 's Mr. and Mrs. Grouse after all , I guess , '' thought Sammy .
`` If I knew just where they were I 'd go over and warn them . ''
But Sammy did n't know just where they were and he knew that it might take him a long time to find them , so he once more began to think of breakfast and then , right then , another thought popped into his head .
He thought of Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy watched the hunter enter the Green Forest , then he silently followed him .
From the way the hunter moved , Sammy decided that he was n't thinking of Mr. and Mrs. Grouse .
`` It 's Lightfoot the Deer , sure as I live , '' muttered Sammy .
`` He ought to be warned .
He certainly ought to be warned .
I know right where he is .
I believe I 'll warn him myself . ''
Sammy found Lightfoot right where he had expected to .
`` He 's coming ! ''
cried Sammy .
`` A hunter with a terrible gun is coming ! ''
CHAPTER VI : A Game Of Hide And Seek There was a game of hide and seek that Danny Meadow Mouse once played with Buster Bear .
It was a very dreadful game for Danny .
But hard as it was for Danny , it did n't begin to be as hard as the game Lightfoot the Deer was playing with the hunter in the Green Forest .
In the case of Buster Bear and Danny , the latter had simply to keep out of reach of Buster .
As long as Buster did n't get his great paws on Danny , the latter was safe .
Then , too , Danny is a very small person .
He is so small that he can hide under two or three leaves .
Wherever he is , he is pretty sure to find a hiding-place of some sort .
His small size gives him advantages in a game of hide and seek .
It certainly does .
But Lightfoot the Deer is big .
He is one of the largest of the people who live in the Green Forest .
Being so big , it is not easy to hide .
Moreover , a hunter with a terrible gun does not have to get close in order to kill .
Lightfoot knew all this as he waited for the coming of the hunter of whom Sammy Jay had warned him .
He had learned many lessons in the hunting season of the year before and he remembered every one of them .
He knew that to forget even one of them might cost him his life .
So , standing motionless behind a tangle of fallen trees , Lightfoot listened and watched .
Presently over in the distance he heard Sammy Jay screaming , `` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
A little sigh of relief escaped Lightfoot .
He knew that that screaming of Sammy Jay 's was a warning to tell him where the hunter was .
Knowing just where the hunter was made it easier for Lightfoot to know what to do .
A Merry Little Breeze came stealing through the Green Forest .
It came from behind Lightfoot and danced on towards the hunter with the terrible gun .
Instantly Lightfoot began to steal softly away through the Green Forest .
He took the greatest care to make no sound .
He went in a half-circle , stopping every few steps to listen and test the air with his wonderful nose .
Can you guess what Lightfoot was trying to do ?
He was trying to get behind the hunter so that the Merry Little Breezes would bring to him the dreaded man-scent .
So long as Lightfoot could get that scent , he would know where the hunter was , though he could neither see nor hear him .
If he had remained where Sammy Jay had found him , the hunter might have come within shooting distance before Lightfoot could have located him .
So the hunter with the terrible gun walked noiselessly through the Green Forest , stepping with the greatest care to avoid snapping a stick underfoot , searching with keen eye every thicket and likely hiding-place for a glimpse of Lightfoot , and studying the ground for traces to show that Lightfoot had been there .
CHAPTER VII : The Merry Little Breezes Help Lightfoot Could you have seen the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer that morning on which the hunting season opened you might have thought that Lightfoot was hunting the hunter instead of the hunter hunting Lightfoot .
You see , Lightfoot was behind the hunter instead of in front of him .
He was following the hunter , so as to keep track of him .
As long as he knew just where the hunter was , he felt reasonably safe .
The Merry Little Breezes are Lightfoot 's best friends .
They always bring to him all the different scents they find as they wander through the Green Forest .
And Lightfoot 's delicate nose is so wonderful that he can take these scents , even though they be very faint , and tell just who or what has made them .
So , though he makes the best possible use of his big ears and his beautiful eyes , he trusts more to his nose to warn him of danger .
For this reason , during the hunting season when he moves about , he moves in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes may be blowing .
He knows that they will bring to him warning of any danger which may lie in that direction .
Now the hunter with the terrible gun who was looking for Lightfoot knew all this , for he was wise in the ways of Lightfoot and of the other little people of the Green Forest .
When he had entered the Green Forest that morning he had first of all made sure of the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were coming .
Then he had begun to hunt in that direction , knowing that thus his scent would be carried behind him .
It is more than likely that he would have reached the hiding-place of Lightfoot the Deer before the latter would have known that he was in the Green Forest , had it not been for Sammy Jay 's warning .
When he reached the tangle of fallen trees behind which Lightfoot had been hiding , he worked around it slowly and with the greatest care , holding his terrible gun ready to use instantly should Lightfoot leap out .
Presently he found Lightfoot 's footprints in the soft ground and studying them he knew that Lightfoot had known of his coming .
`` It was that confounded Jay , '' muttered the hunter .
`` Lightfoot heard him and knew what it meant .
I know what he has done ; he has circled round so as to get behind me and get my scent .
It is a clever trick , a very clever trick , but two can play at that game .
I 'll just try that little trick myself . ''
So the hunter in his turn made a wide circle back , and presently there was none of the dreaded man-smell among the scents which the Merry Little Breezes brought to Lightfoot .
Lightfoot had lost track of the hunter .
CHAPTER VIII : Wit Against Wit It was a dreadful game the hunter with the terrible gun and Lightfoot the Deer were playing in the Green Forest .
It was a matching of wit against wit , the hunter seeking to take Lightfoot 's life , and Lightfoot seeking to save it .
The experience of other years had taught Lightfoot much of the ways of hunters and not one of the things he had learned about them was forgotten .
But the hunter in his turn knew much of the ways of Deer .
So it was that each was trying his best to outguess the other .
When the hunter found the hiding-place Lightfoot had left at the warning of Sammy Jay he followed Lightfoot 's tracks for a short distance .
It was slow work , and only one whose eyes had been trained to notice little things could have done it .
You see , there was no snow , and only now and then , when he had stepped on a bit of soft ground , had Lightfoot left a footprint .
But there were other signs which the hunter knew how to read , -- a freshly upturned leaf here , and here , a bit of moss lightly crushed .
These things told the hunter which way Lightfoot had gone .
Slowly , patiently , watchfully , the hunter followed .
After a while he stopped with a satisfied grin .
`` I thought as much , '' he muttered .
`` He heard that pesky Jay and circled around so as to get my scent .
I 'll just cut across to my old trail and unless I am greatly mistaken , I 'll find his tracks there . ''
So , swiftly but silently , the hunter cut across to his old trail , and in a few moments he found just what he expected , -- one of Lightfoot 's footprints .
Once more he grinned .
`` Well , old fellow , I 've outguessed you this time , '' said he to himself .
`` I am behind you and the wind is from you to me , so that you can not get my scent .
I would n't be a bit surprised if you 're back right where you started from , behind that old windfall . ''
He at once began to move forward silently and cautiously , with eyes and ears alert and his terrible gun ready for instant use .
Now when Lightfoot , following behind the hunter , had lost the scent of the latter , he guessed right away that the latter had found his tracks and had started to follow them .
Lightfoot stood still and listened with all his might for some little sound to tell him where the hunter was .
But there was no sound and after a little Lightfoot began to move on .
He did n't dare remain still , lest the hunter should creep up within shooting distance .
There was only one direction in which it was safe for Lightfoot to move , and that was the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing .
So long as they brought him none of the dreaded man-smell , he knew that he was safe .
The hunter might be behind him -- probably he was -- but ahead of him , so long as the Merry Little Breezes were blowing in his face and brought no man-smell , was safety .
CHAPTER IX : Lightfoot Becomes Uncertain Lightfoot the Deer traveled on through the Green Forest , straight ahead in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing .
Every few steps he would raise his delicate nose and test all the scents that the Merry Little Breezes were bringing .
So long as he kept the Merry Little Breezes blowing in his face , he could be sure whether or not there was danger ahead of him .
Lightfoot uses his nose very much as you and I use our eyes .
It tells him the things he wants to know .
He knew that Reddy Fox had been along ahead of him , although he did n't get so much as a glimpse of Reddy 's red coat .
Once he caught just the faintest of scents which caused him to stop abruptly and test the air more carefully than ever .
It was the scent of Buster Bear .
But it was so very faint that Lightfoot knew Buster was not near , so he went ahead again , but even more carefully than before .
After a little he could n't smell Buster at all , so he knew then that Buster had merely passed that way when he was going to some other part of the Green Forest .
Lightfoot knew that he had nothing to fear in that direction so long as the Merry Little Breezes brought him none of the dreaded man-scent , and he knew that he could trust the Merry Little Breezes to bring him that scent if there should be a man anywhere in front of him .
You know the Merry Little Breezes are Lightfoot 's best friends .
But Lightfoot did n't want to keep going in that direction all day .
It would take him far away from that part of the Green Forest with which he was familiar and which he called home .
It might in time take him out of the Green Forest and that would n't do at all .
So after a while Lightfoot became uncertain .
He did n't know just what to do .
You see , he could n't tell whether or not that hunter with the terrible gun was still following him .
Every once in a while he would stop in a thicket of young trees or behind a tangle of fallen trees uprooted by the wind .
There he would stand , facing the direction from which he had come , and watch and listen for some sign that the hunter was still following .
But after a few minutes of this he would grow uneasy and then bound away in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing , so as to be sure of not running into danger .
`` If only I could know if that hunter is still following , I would know better what to do , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` I 've got to find out . ''
CHAPTER X : Lightfoot 's Clever Trick Lightfoot the Deer is smart .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot the Deer is smart .
He has to be , especially in the hunting season , to save his life .
If he were not smart he would have been killed long ago .
He never makes the foolish mistake of thinking that other people are not smart .
He knew that the hunter who had started out to follow him early that morning was not one to be easily discouraged or to be fooled by simple tricks .
He had a very great respect for the smartness of that hunter .
He knew that he could n't afford to be careless for one little minute .
The certainty of danger is sometimes easier to bear than the uncertainty of not knowing whether or not there really is any danger .
Lightfoot felt that if he could know just where the hunter was , he himself would know better what to do .
The hunter might have become discouraged and given up following him .
In that case he could rest and stop worrying .
It would be better to know that he was being followed than not to know .
But how was he to find out ?
Lightfoot kept turning this over and over in his mind as he traveled through the Green Forest .
Then an idea came to him .
`` I know what I 'll do .
I know just what I 'll do , '' said Lightfoot to himself .
`` I 'll find out whether or not that hunter is still following me and I 'll get a little rest .
Goodness knows , I need a rest . ''
Lightfoot bounded away swiftly and ran for some distance , then he turned and quickly , but very , very quietly , returned in the direction from which he had just come but a little to one side of his old trail .
After a while he saw what he was looking for , a pile of branches which woodchoppers had left when they had trimmed the trees they had cut down .
This was near the top of a little hill .
Lightfoot went up the hill and stopped behind the pile of brush .
For a few moments he stood there perfectly still , looking and listening .
Then , with a little sigh of relief , he lay down , where , without being in any danger of being seen himself , he could watch his old trail through the hollow at the bottom of the hill .
If the hunter were still following him , he would pass through that hollow in plain sight .
For a long tune Lightfoot rested comfortably behind the pile of brush .
There was not a suspicious movement or a suspicious sound to show that danger was abroad in the Green Forest .
He saw Mr. and Mrs. Grouse fly down across the hollow and disappear among the trees on the other side .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum looking over a hollow tree and guessed that Unc ' Billy was getting ready to go into winter quarters .
He saw Jumper the Hare squat down under a low-hanging branch of a hemlock-tree and prepare to take a nap .
He heard Drummer the Woodpecker at work drilling after worms in a tree not far away .
Little by little Lightfoot grew easy in his mind .
It must be that that hunter had become discouraged and was no longer following him .
CHAPTER XI : The Hunted Watches The Hunter It was so quiet and peaceful and altogether lovely there in the Green Forest , where Lightfoot the Deer lay resting behind a pile of brush near the top of a little hill , that it did n't seem possible such a thing as sudden death could be anywhere near .
It did n't seem possible that there could be any need for watchfulness .
But Lightfoot long ago had learned that often danger is nearest when it seems least to be expected .
So , though he would have liked very much to have taken a nap , Lightfoot was too wise to do anything so foolish .
He kept his beautiful , great , soft eyes fixed in the direction from which the hunter with the terrible gun would come if he were still following that trail .
He kept his great ears gently moving to catch every little sound .
Lightfoot had about decided that the hunter had given up hunting for that day , but he did n't let this keep him from being any the less watchful .
It was better to be overwatchful than the least bit careless .
By and by , Lightfoot 's keen ears caught the sound of the snapping of a little stick in the distance .
It was so faint a sound that you or I would have missed it altogether .
But Lightfoot heard it and instantly he was doubly alert , watching in the direction from which that faint sound had come .
After what seemed a long , long time he saw something moving , and a moment later a man came into view .
It was the hunter and across one arm he carried the terrible gun .
Lightfoot knew now that this hunter had patience and perseverance and had not yet given up hope of getting near enough to shoot Lightfoot .
He moved forward slowly , setting each foot down with the greatest care , so as not to snap a stick or rustle the leaves .
He was watching sharply ahead , ready to shoot should he catch a glimpse of Lightfoot within range .
Right along through the hollow at the foot of the little hill below Lightfoot the hunter passed .
He was no longer studying the ground for Lightfoot 's tracks , because the ground was so hard and dry down there that Lightfoot had left no tracks .
He was simply hunting in the direction from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing because he knew that Lightfoot had gone in that direction , and he also knew that if Lightfoot were still ahead of him , his scent could not be carried to Lightfoot .
He was doing what is called `` hunting up-wind . ''
Lightfoot kept perfectly still and watched the hunter disappear among the trees .
Then he silently got to his feet , shook himself lightly , and noiselessly stole away over the hilltop towards another part of the Green Forest .
He felt sure that that hunter would not find him again that day .
CHAPTER XII : Lightfoot Visits Paddy The Beaver Deep in the Green Forest is the pond where lives Paddy the Beaver .
It is Paddy 's own pond , for he made it himself .
He made it by building a dam across the Laughing Brook .
When Lightfoot bounded away through the Green Forest , after watching the hunter pass through the hollow below him , he remembered Paddy 's pond .
`` That 's where I 'll go , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` It is such a lonesome part of the Green Forest that I do not believe that hunter will come there .
I 'll just run over and make Paddy a friendly call . ''
So Lightfoot bounded along deeper and deeper into the Green Forest .
Presently through the trees he caught the gleam of water .
It was Paddy 's pond .
Lightfoot approached it cautiously .
He felt sure he was rid of the hunter who had followed him so far that day , but he knew that there might be other hunters in the Green Forest .
He knew that he could n't afford to be careless for even one little minute .
Lightfoot had lived long enough to know that most of the sad things and dreadful things that happen in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows are due to carelessness .
No one who is hunted , be he big or little , can afford ever to be careless .
Now Lightfoot had known of hunters hiding near water , hoping to shoot him when he came to drink .
That always seemed to Lightfoot a dreadful thing , an unfair thing .
But hunters had done it before and they might do it again .
So Lightfoot was careful to approach Paddy 's pond upwind .
That is , he approached the side of the pond from which the Merry Little Breezes were blowing toward him , and all the time he kept his nose working .
He knew that if any hunters were hidden there , the Merry Little Breezes would bring him their scent and thus warn him .
He had almost reached the edge of Paddy 's pond when from the farther shore there came a sudden crash .
It startled Lightfoot terribly for just an instant .
Then he guessed what it meant .
That crash was the falling of a tree .
There was n't enough wind to blow over even the most shaky dead tree .
There had been no sound of axes , so he knew it could not have been chopped down by men .
It must be that Paddy the Beaver had cut it , and if Paddy had been working in daylight , it was certain that no one had been around that pond for a long time .
So Lightfoot hurried forward eagerly , cautiously .
When he reached the bank he looked across towards where the sound of that falling tree had come from ; a branch of a tree was moving along in the water and half hidden by it was a brown head .
It was Paddy the Beaver taking the branch to his food pile .
CHAPTER XIII : Lightfoot And Paddy Become Partners The instant Lightfoot saw Paddy the Beaver he knew that for the time being , at least , there was no danger .
He knew that Paddy is one of the shyest of all the little people of the Green Forest and that when he is found working in the daytime it means that he has been undisturbed for a long time ; otherwise he would work only at night .
Paddy saw Lightfoot almost as soon as he stepped out on the bank .
He kept right on swimming with the branch of a poplar-tree until he reached his food pile , which , you know , is in the water .
There he forced the branch down until it was held by other branches already sunken in the pond .
This done , he swam over to where Lightfoot was watching .
`` Hello , Lightfoot ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` You are looking handsomer than ever .
How are you feeling these fine autumn days ? ''
`` Anxious , '' replied Lightfoot .
`` I am feeling terribly anxious .
Do you know what day this is ? ''
`` No , '' replied Paddy , `` I do n't know what day it is , and I do n't particularly care .
It is enough for me that it is one of the finest days we 've had for a long time . ''
`` I wish I could feel that way , '' said Lightfoot wistfully .
`` I wish I could feel that way , Paddy , but I ca n't .
No , Sir , I ca n't .
You see , this is the first of the most dreadful days in all the year for me .
The hunters started looking for me before Mr. Sun was really out of bed .
At least one hunter did , and I do n't doubt there are others .
I fooled that one , but from now to the end of the hunting season there will not be a single moment of daylight when I will feel absolutely safe . ''
Paddy crept out on the bank and chewed a little twig of poplar thoughtfully .
Paddy says he can always think better if he is chewing something .
`` That 's bad news , Lightfoot .
I 'm sorry to hear it .
I certainly am sorry to hear it , '' said Paddy .
`` Why anybody wants to hunt such a handsome fellow as you are , I can not understand .
My , but that 's a beautiful set of antlers you have ! ''
`` They are the best I 've ever had ; but do you know , Paddy , I suspect that they may be one of the reasons I am hunted so , '' replied Lightfoot a little sadly .
`` Good looks are not always to be desired .
Have you seen any hunters around here lately ? ''
Paddy shook his Lead .
`` Not a single hunter , '' he replied .
`` I tell you what it is , Lightfoot , let 's be partners for a while .
You stay right around my pond .
If I see or hear or smell anything suspicious , I 'll warn you .
You do the same for me .
Two sets of eyes , ears and noses are better than one .
What do you say , Lightfoot ? ''
`` I 'll do it , '' replied Lightfoot .
CHAPTER XIV : How Paddy Warned Lightfoot It was a queer partnership , that partnership between Lightfoot and Paddy , but it was a good partnership .
They had been the best of friends for a long time .
Paddy had always been glad to have Lightfoot visit his pond .
To tell the truth , he was rather fond of handsome Lightfoot .
You know Paddy is himself not at all handsome .
On land he is a rather clumsy-looking fellow and really homely .
So he admired Lightfoot greatly .
That is one reason why he proposed that they be partners .
Lightfoot himself thought the idea a splendid one .
He spent that night browsing not far from Paddy 's pond .
With the coming of daylight he lay down in a thicket of young hemlock-trees near the upper end of the pond .
It was a quiet , peaceful day .
It was so quiet and peaceful and beautiful it was hard to believe that hunters with terrible guns were searching the Green Forest for beautiful Lightfoot .
But they were , and Lightfoot knew that sooner or later one of them would be sure to visit Paddy 's pond .
So , though he rested and took short naps all through that beautiful day , he was anxious .
He could n't help but be .
The next morning found Lightfoot back in the same place .
But this morning he took no naps .
He rested , but all the time he was watchful and alert .
A feeling of uneasiness possessed him .
He felt in his bones that danger in the shape of a hunter with a terrible gun was not far distant .
But the hours slipped away , and little by little he grew less uneasy .
He began to hope that that day would prove as peaceful as the previous day had been .
Then suddenly there was a sharp report from the farther end of Paddy 's pond .
It was almost like a pistol shot .
However , it was n't a pistol shot .
It was n't a shot at all .
It was the slap of Paddy 's broad tail on the surface of the water .
Instantly Lightfoot was on his feet .
He knew just what that meant .
He knew that Paddy had seen or heard or smelled a hunter .
It was even so .
Paddy had heard a dry stick snap .
It was a very tiny snap , but it was enough to warn Paddy .
With only his head above water he had watched in the direction from which that sound had come .
Presently , stealing quietly along towards the pond , a hunter had come in view .
Instantly Paddy had brought his broad tail down on the water with all his force .
He knew that Lightfoot would know that that meant danger .
Then Paddy had dived , and swimming under water , had sought the safety of his house .
He had done his part , and there was nothing more he could do .
CHAPTER XV : The Three Watchers When Paddy the Beaver slapped the water with his broad tail , making a noise like a pistol shot , Lightfoot understood that this was meant as a warning of danger .
He was on his feet instantly , with eyes , ears and nose seeking the cause of Paddy 's warning .
After a moment or two he stole softly up to the top of a little ridge some distance back from Paddy 's pond , but from the top of which he could see the whole of the pond .
There he hid among some close-growing young hemlock-trees .
It was n't long before he saw a hunter with a terrible gun come down to the shore of the pond .
Now the hunter had heard Paddy slap the water with his broad tail .
Of course .
There would have been something very wrong with his ears had he failed to hear it .
`` Confound that Beaver ! ''
muttered the hunter crossly .
`` If there was a Deer anywhere around this pond , he probably is on his way now .
I 'll have a look around and see if there are any signs . ''
So the hunter went on to the edge of Paddy 's pond and then began to walk around it , studying the ground as he walked .
Presently he found the footprints of Lightfoot in the mud where Lightfoot had gone down to the pond to drink .
`` I thought as much , '' muttered the hunter .
`` Those tracks were made last night .
That Deer probably was lying down somewhere near here , and I might have had a shot but for that pesky Beaver .
I 'll just look the land over , and then I think I 'll wait here awhile .
If that Deer is n't too badly scared , he may come back . ''
So the hunter went quite around the pond , looking into all likely hiding-places .
He found where Lightfoot had been lying , and he knew that in all probability Lightfoot had been there when Paddy gave the danger signal .
`` It 's of no use for me to try to follow him , '' thought the hunter .
`` It is too dry for me to track him .
He may not be so badly scared , after all .
I 'll just find a good place and wait . ''
So the hunter found an old log behind some small trees and there sat down .
He could see all around Paddy 's pond .
He sat perfectly still .
He was a clever hunter and he knew that so long as he did not move he was not likely to be noticed by any sharp eyes that might come that way .
What he did n't know was that Lightfoot had been watching him all the time and was even then standing where he could see him .
And another thing he did n't know was that Paddy the Beaver had come out of his house and , swimming under water , had reached a hiding-place on the opposite shore from which he too had seen the hunter sit down on the log .
So the hunter watched for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy watched the hunter .
CHAPTER XVI : Visitors To Paddy 's Pond That hunter was a man of patience .
Also he was a man who understood the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows .
He knew that if he would not be seen he must not move .
So he did n't move .
He kept as motionless as if he were a part of the very log on which he was sitting .
For some time there was no sign of any living thing .
Then , from over the tree tops in the direction of the Big River , came the whistle of swift wings , and Mr. and Mrs. Quack alighted with a splash in the pond .
For a few moments they sat on the water , a picture of watchful suspicion .
They were looking and listening to make sure that no danger was near .
Satisfied at last , they began to clean their feathers .
It was plain that they felt safe .
Paddy the Beaver was tempted to warn them that they were not as safe as they thought , but as long as the hunter did not move Paddy decided to wait .
Now the hunter was sorely tempted to shoot these Ducks , but he knew that if he did he would have no chance that day to get Lightfoot the Deer , and it was Lightfoot he wanted .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam about within easy range of that terrible gun without once suspecting that danger was anywhere near .
By and by the hunter 's keen eyes caught a movement at one end of Paddy 's dam .
An instant later Bobby Coon appeared .
It was clear that Bobby was quite unsuspicious .
He carried something , but just what the hunter could not make out .
He took it down to the edge of the water and there carefully washed it .
Then he climbed up on Paddy 's dam and began to eat .
You know Bobby Coon is very particular about his food .
Whenever there is water near , Bobby washes his food before eating .
Once more the hunter was tempted , but did not yield to the temptation , which was a very good thing for Bobby Coon .
All this Lightfoot saw as he stood among the little hemlock-trees at the top of the ridge behind the hunter .
He saw and he understood .
`` It is because he wants to kill me that he does n't shoot at Mr. and Mrs. Quack or Bobby Coon , '' thought Lightfoot a little bitterly .
`` What have I ever done that he should be so anxious to kill me ? ''
Still the hunter sat without moving .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack contentedly hunted for food in the mud at the bottom of Paddy 's pond .
Bobby Coon finished his meal , crossed the dam and disappeared in the Green Forest .
He had gone off to take a nap somewhere .
Time slipped away .
The hunter continued to watch patiently for Lightfoot , and Lightfoot and Paddy the Beaver watched the hunter .
Finally , another visitor appeared at the upper end of the pond -- a visitor in a wonderful coat of red .
It was Reddy Fox .
CHAPTER XVII : Sammy Jay Arrives When Reddy Fox arrived at the pond of Paddy the Beaver , the hunter who was hiding there saw him instantly .
So did Lightfoot .
But no one else did .
He approached in that cautious , careful way that he always uses when he is hunting .
The instant he reached a place where he could see all over Paddy 's pond , he stopped as suddenly as if he had been turned to stone .
He stopped with one foot lifted in the act of taking a step .
He had seen Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
Now you know there is nothing Reddy Fox likes better for a dinner than a Duck .
The instant he saw Mr. and Mrs. Quack , a gleam of longing crept into his eyes and his mouth began to water .
He stood motionless until both Mr. and Mrs. Quack had their heads under water as they searched for food in the mud in the bottom of the pond .
Then like a red flash he bounded out of sight behind the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Presently the hunter saw Reddy 's black nose at the end of the dam as Reddy peeped around it to watch Mr. and Mrs. Quack .
The latter were slowly moving along in that direction as they fed .
Reddy was quick to see this .
If he remained right where he was , and Mr. And Mrs. Quack kept on feeding in that direction , the chances were that he would have a dinner of fat Duck .
All he need do was to be patient and wait .
So , with his eyes fixed fast on Mr. and Mrs. Quack , Reddy Fox crouched behind Paddy 's dam and waited .
Watching Reddy and the Ducks , the hunter almost forgot Lightfoot the Deer .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack were getting very near to where Reddy was waiting for them .
The hunter was tempted to get up and frighten those Ducks .
He did n't want Reddy Fox to have them , because he hoped some day to get them himself .
`` I suppose , '' thought he , `` I was foolish not to shoot them when I had the chance .
They are too far away now , and it looks very much as if that red rascal will get one of them .
I believe I 'll spoil that red scamp 's plans by frightening them away .
I do n't believe that Deer will be back here to-day anyway , so I may as well save those Ducks . ''
But the hunter did nothing of the kind .
You see , just as he was getting ready to step out from his hiding-place , Sammy Jay arrived .
He perched in a tree close to the end of Paddy 's dam and at once he spied Reddy Fox .
It did n't take him a second to discover what Reddy was hiding there for .
`` Thief , thief , thief ! ''
screamed Sammy , and then looked down at Reddy with a mischievous look in his sharp eyes .
There is nothing Sammy Jay delights in more than in upsetting the plans of Reddy Fox .
At the sound of Sammy 's voice , Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam hurriedly towards the middle of the pond .
They knew exactly what that warning meant .
Reddy Fox looked up at Sammy Jay and snarled angrily .
Then , knowing it was useless to hide longer , he bounded away through the Green Forest to hunt elsewhere .
CHAPTER XVIII : The Hunter Loses His Temper The hunter , hidden near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , chuckled silently .
That is to say , he laughed without making any sound .
The hunter thought the warning of Mr. and Mrs. Quack by Sammy Jay was a great joke on Reddy .
To tell the truth , he was very much pleased .
As you know , he wanted those Ducks himself .
He suspected that they would stay in that little pond for some days , and he planned to return there and shoot them after he had got Lightfoot the Deer .
He wanted to get Lightfoot first , and he knew that to shoot at anything else might spoil his chance of getting a shot at Lightfoot .
`` Sammy Jay did me a good turn , '' thought the hunter , `` although he does n't know it .
Reddy Fox certainly would have caught one of those Ducks had Sammy not come along just when he did .
It would have been a shame to have had one of them caught by that Fox .
I mean to get one , and I hope both of them , myself . ''
Now when you come to think of it , it would have been a far greater shame for the hunter to have killed Mr. and Mrs. Quack than for Reddy Fox to have done so .
Reddy was hunting them because he was hungry .
The hunter would have shot them for sport .
He did n't need them .
He had plenty of other food .
Reddy Fox does n't kill just for the pleasure of killing .
So the hunter continued to sit in his hiding-place with very friendly feelings for Sammy Jay .
Sammy watched Reddy Fox disappear and then flew over to that side of the pond where the hunter was .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack called their thanks to Sammy , to which he replied , that he had done no more for them than he would do for anybody , or than they would have done for him .
For some time Sammy sat quietly in the top of the tree , but all the time his sharp eyes were very busy .
By and by he spied the hunter sitting on the log .
At first he could n't make out just what it was he was looking at .
It did n't move , but nevertheless Sammy was suspicious .
Presently he flew over to a tree where he could see better .
Right away he spied the terrible gun , and he knew just what that was .
Once more he began to yell , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
at the top of his lungs .
It was then that the hunter lost his temper .
He knew that now he had been discovered by Sammy Jay , and it was useless to remain there longer .
He was angry clear through .
CHAPTER XIX : Sammy Jay Is Modest As soon as the angry hunter with the terrible gun had disappeared among the trees of the Green Forest , and Lightfoot was sure that he had gone for good , Lightfoot came out from his hiding-place on top of the ridge and walked down to the pond of Paddy the Beaver for a drink .
He knew that it was quite safe to do so , for Sammy Jay had followed the hunter , all the time screaming , `` Thief !
thief !
thief ! ''
Every one within hearing could tell just where that hunter was by Sammy 's voice .
It kept growing fainter and fainter , and by that Lightfoot knew that the hunter was getting farther and farther away .
Paddy the Beaver swam out from his hiding-place and climbed out on the bank near Lightfoot .
There was a twinkle in his eyes .
`` That blue-coated mischief-maker is n't such a bad fellow at heart , after all , is he ? ''
said he .
Lightfoot lifted his beautiful head and set his ears forward to catch the sound of Sammy 's voice in the distance .
`` Sammy Jay may be a mischief-maker , as some people say , '' said he , `` but you can always count on him to prove a true friend in time of danger .
He brought me warning of the coming of the hunter the other morning .
You saw him save Mr. and Mrs. Quack a little while ago , and then he actually drove that hunter away .
I suppose Sammy Jay has saved more lives than any one I know of .
I wish he would come back here and let me thank him . ''
Some time later Sammy Jay did come back .
`` Well , '' said he , as he smoothed his feathers , `` I chased that fellow clear to the edge of the Green Forest , so I guess there will be nothing more to fear from him today .
I 'm glad to see he has n't got you yet , Lightfoot .
I 've been a bit worried about you . ''
`` Sammy , '' said Lightfoot , `` you are one of the best friends I have .
I do n't know how I can ever thank you for what you have done for me . ''
`` Do n't try , '' replied Sammy shortly .
`` I have n't done anything but what anybody else would have done .
Old Mother Nature gave me a pair of good eyes and a strong voice .
I simply make the best use of them I can .
Just to see a hunter with a terrible gun makes me angry clear through .
I 'd rather spoil his hunting than eat . ''
`` You want to watch out , Sammy .
One of these days a hunter will lose his temper and shoot you , just to get even with you , '' warned Paddy the Beaver .
`` Do n't worry about me , '' replied Sammy .
`` I know just how far those terrible guns can shoot , and I do n't take any chances .
By the way , Lightfoot , the Green Forest is full of hunters looking for you .
I 've seen a lot of them , and I know they are looking for you because they do not shoot at anybody else even when they have a chance . ''
CHAPTER XX : Lightfoot Hears A Dreadful Sound Day after day , Lightfoot the Deer played hide and seek for his life with the hunters who were seeking to kill him .
He saw them many times , though not one of them saw him .
More than once a hunter passed close to Lightfoot 's hiding-place without once suspecting it .
But poor Lightfoot was feeling the strain .
He was growing thin , and he was so nervous that the falling of a dead leaf from a tree would startle him .
There is nothing quite so terrible as being continually hunted .
It was getting so that Lightfoot half expected a hunter to step out from behind every tree .
Only when the Black Shadows wrapped the Green Forest in darkness did he know a moment of peace .
And those hours of safety were filled with dread of what the next day might bring .
Early one morning a terrible sound rang through the Green Forest and brought Lightfoot to his feet with a startled jump .
It was the baying of hounds following a trail .
At first it did not sound so terrible .
Lightfoot had often heard it before .
Many times he had listened to the baying of Bowser the Hound , as he followed Reddy Fox .
It had not sounded so terrible then because it meant no danger to Lightfoot .
At first , as he listened early that morning , he took it for granted that those hounds were after Reddy , and so , though startled , he was not worried .
But suddenly a dreadful suspicion came to him and he grew more and more anxious as he listened .
In a few minutes there was no longer any doubt in his mind .
Those hounds were following his trail .
It was then that the sound of that baying became terrible .
He must run for his life !
Those hounds would give him no rest .
And he knew that in running from them , he would no longer be able to watch so closely for the hunters with terrible guns .
He would no longer be able to hide in thickets .
At any time he might be driven right past one of those hunters .
Lightfoot bounded away with such leaps as only Lightfoot can make .
In a little while the voices of the hounds grew fainter .
Lightfoot stopped to get his breath and stood trembling as he listened .
The baying of the hounds again grew louder and louder .
Those wonderful noses of theirs were following his trail without the least difficulty .
In a panic of fear , Lightfoot bounded away again .
As he crossed an old road , the Green Forest rang with the roar of a terrible gun .
Something tore a strip of bark from the trunk of a tree just above Lightfoot 's back .
It was a bullet and it had just missed Lightfoot .
It added to his terror and this in turn added to his speed .
So Lightfoot ran and ran , and behind him the voices of the hounds continued to ring through the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXI : How Lightfoot Got Rid Of The Hounds Poor Lightfoot !
It seemed to him that there were no such things as justice and fair play .
Had it been just one hunter at a time against whom he had to match his wits it would not have been so bad .
But there were many hunters with terrible guns looking for him , and in dodging one he was likely at any time to meet another .
This in itself seemed terribly unfair and unjust .
But now , added to this was the greater unfairness of being trailed by hounds .
Do you wonder that Lightfoot thought of men as utterly heartless ?
You see , he could not know that those hounds had not been put on his trail , but had left home to hunt for their own pleasure .
He could not know that it was against the law to hunt him with dogs .
But though none of those hunters looking for him were guilty of having put the hounds on his trail , each one of them was willing and eager to take advantage of the fact that the hounds were on his trail .
Already he had been shot at once and he knew that he would be shot at again if he should be driven where a hunter was hidden .
The ground was damp and scent always lies best on damp ground .
This made it easy for the hounds to follow him with their wonderful noses .
Lightfoot tried every trick he could think of to make those hounds lose the scent .
`` If only I could make them lose it long enough for me to get a little rest , it would help , '' panted Lightfoot , as he paused for just an instant to listen to the baying of the hounds .
But he could n't .
They allowed him no rest .
He was becoming very , very tired .
He could no longer bound lightly over fallen logs or brush , as he had done at first .
His lungs ached as he panted for breath .
He realized that even though he should escape the hunters he would meet an even more terrible death unless he could get rid of those hounds .
There would come a time when he would have to stop .
Then those hounds would catch up with him and tear him to pieces .
It was then that he remembered the Big River .
He turned towards it .
It was his only chance and he knew it .
Straight through the Green Forest , out across the Green Meadows to the bank of the Big River , Lightfoot ran .
For just a second he paused to look behind .
The hounds were almost at his heels .
Lightfoot hesitated no longer but plunged into the Big River and began to swim .
On the banks the hounds stopped and bayed their disappointment , for they did not dare follow Lightfoot out into the Big River .
CHAPTER XXII : Lightfoot 's Long Swim The Big River was very wide .
It would have been a long swim for Lightfoot had he been fresh and at his best .
Strange as it may seem , Lightfoot is a splendid swimmer , despite his small , delicate feet .
He enjoys swimming .
But now Lightfoot was terribly tired from his long run ahead of the hounds .
For a time he swam rapidly , but those weary muscles grew still more weary , and by the time he reached the middle of the Big River it seemed to him that he was not getting ahead at all .
At first he had tried to swim towards a clump of trees he could see on the opposite bank above the point where he had entered the water , but to do this he had to swim against the current and he soon found that he had n't the strength to do this .
Then he turned and headed for a point down the Big River .
This made the swimming easier , for the current helped him instead of hindering him .
Even then he could feel his strength leaving him .
Had he escaped those hounds and the terrible hunters only to be drowned in the Big River ?
This new fear gave him more strength for a little while .
But it did not last long .
He was three fourths of the way across the Big River but still that other shore seemed a long distance away .
Little by little hope died in the heart of Lightfoot the Deer .
He would keep on just as long as he could and then , -- well , it was better to drown than to be torn to pieces by dogs .
Just as Lightfoot felt that he could not take another stroke and that the end was at hand , one foot touched something .
Then , all four feet touched .
A second later he had found solid footing and was standing with the water only up to his knees .
He had found a little sand bar out in the Big River .
With a little gasp of returning hope , Lightfoot waded along until the water began to grow deeper again .
He had hoped that he would be able to wade ashore , but he saw now that he would have to swim again .
So for a long time he remained right where he was .
He was so tired that he trembled all over , and he was as frightened as he was tired .
He knew that standing out there in the water he could be seen for a long distance , and that made him nervous and fearful .
Supposing a hunter on the shore he was trying to reach should see him .
Then he would have no chance at all , for the hunter would simply wait for him and shoot him as he came out of the water .
But rest he must , and so he stood for a long time on the little sand bar in the Big River .
And little by little he felt his strength returning .
CHAPTER XXIII : Lightfoot Finds A Friend As Lightfoot rested , trying to recover his breath , out there on the little sand bar in the Big River , his great , soft , beautiful eyes watched first one bank and then the other .
On the bank he had left , he could see two black-and-white specks moving about , and across the water came the barking of dogs .
Those two specks were the hounds who had driven him into the Big River .
They were barking now , instead of baying .
Presently a brown form joined the black-and-white specks .
It was a hunter drawn there by the barking of the dogs .
He was too far away to be dangerous , but the mere sight of him filled Lightfoot with terror again .
He watched the hunter walk along the bank and disappear in the bushes .
Presently out of the bushes came a boat , and in it was the hunter .
He headed straight towards Lightfoot , and then Lightfoot knew that his brief rest was at an end .
He must once more swim or be shot by the hunter in the boat .
So Lightfoot again struck out for the shore .
His rest had given him new strength , but still he was very , very tired and swimming was hard work .
Slowly , oh so slowly , he drew nearer to the bank .
What new dangers might be waiting there , he did not know .
He had never been on that side of the Big River .
He knew nothing of the country on that side .
But the uncertainty was better than the certainty behind him .
He could hear the sound of the oars as the hunter in the boat did his best to get to him before he should reach the shore .
On Lightfoot struggled .
At last he felt bottom beneath his feet .
He staggered up through some bushes along the bank and then for an instant it seemed to him his heart stopped beating .
Right in front of him stood a man .
He had come out into the back yard of the home of that man .
It is doubtful which was the more surprised , Lightfoot or the man .
Right then and there Lightfoot gave up in despair .
He could n't run .
It was all he could do to walk .
The long chase by the hounds on the other side of the Big River and the long swim across the Big River had taken all his strength .
Not a spark of hope remained to Lightfoot .
He simply stood still and trembled , partly with fear and partly with weariness .
Then a surprising thing happened .
The man spoke softly .
He advanced , not threateningly but slowly , and in a friendly way .
He walked around back of Lightfoot and then straight towards him .
Lightfoot walked on a few steps , and the man followed , still talking softly .
Little by little he urged Lightfoot on , driving him towards an open shed in which was a pile of hay .
Without understanding just how , Lightfoot knew that he had found a friend .
So he entered the open shed and with a long sigh lay down in the soft hay .
CHAPTER XXIV : The Hunter Is Disappointed How he knew he was safe , Lightfoot the Deer Could n't have told you .
He just knew it , that was all .
He could n't understand a word said by the man in whose yard he found himself when he climbed the bank after his long swim across the Big River .
But he did n't have to understand words to know that he had found a friend .
So he allowed the man to drive him gently over to an open shed where there was a pile of soft hay and there he lay down , so tired that it seemed to him he could n't move another step .
It was only a few minutes later that the hunter who had followed Lightfoot across the River reached the bank and scrambled out of his boat .
Lightfoot 's friend was waiting just at the top of the bank .
Of course the hunter saw him at once .
`` Hello , Friend ! ''
cried the hunter .
`` Did you see a Deer pass this way a few minutes ago ?
He swam across the river , and if I know anything about it he 's too tired to travel far now .
I 've been hunting that fellow for several days , and if I have any luck at all I ought to get him this time . ''
`` I 'm afraid you wo n't have any luck at all , '' said Lightfoot 's friend .
`` You see , I do n't allow any hunting on my land . ''
The hunter looked surprised , and then his surprise gave way to anger .
`` You mean , '' said he , `` that you intend to get that Deer yourself . ''
Lightfoot 's friend shook his head .
`` No , '' said he , `` I do n't mean anything of the kind .
I mean that that Deer is not to be killed if I can prevent it , and while it is on my land , I think I can .
The best thing for you to do , my friend , is to get into your boat and row back where you came from .
Are those your hounds barking over there ? ''
`` No , '' replied the hunter promptly .
`` I know the law just as well as you do , and it is against the law to hunt Deer with dogs .
I do n't even know who owns those two hounds over there . ''
`` That may be true , '' replied Lightfoot 's friend .
`` I do n't doubt it is true .
But you are willing to take advantage of the fact that the dogs of some one else have broken the law .
You knew that those dogs had driven that Deer into the Big River and you promptly took advantage of the fact to try to reach that Deer before he could get across .
You are not hunting for the pleasure of hunting but just to kill .
You do n't know the meaning of justice or fairness .
Now get off my land .
Get back into your boat and off my land as quick as you can .
That Deer is not very far from here and so tired that he can not move .
Just as long as he will stay here , he will be safe , and I hope he will stay until this miserable hunting season is ended .
Now go . ''
Muttering angrily , the hunter got back into his boat and pushed off , but he did n't row back across the river .
CHAPTER XXV : The Hunter Lies In Wait If ever there was an angry hunter , it was the one who had followed Lightfoot the Deer across the Big River .
When he was ordered to get off the land where Lightfoot had climbed out , he got back into his boat , but he did n't row back to the other side .
Instead , he rowed down the river , finally landing on the same side but on land which Lightfoot 's friend did not own .
`` When that Deer has become rested he 'll become uneasy , '' thought the hunter .
`` He wo n't stay on that man 's land .
He 'll start for the nearest woods .
I 'll go up there and wait for him .
I 'll get that Deer if only to spite that fellow back there who drove me off .
Had it not been for him , I 'd have that Deer right now .
He was too tired to have gone far .
He 's got the handsomest pair of antlers I 've seen for years .
I can sell that head of his for a good price . ''
So the hunter tied his boat to a tree and once more climbed out .
He climbed up the bank and studied the land .
Across a wide meadow he could see a brushy old pasture and back of that some thick woods .
He grinned .
`` That 's where that Deer will head for , '' he decided .
`` There is n't any other place for him to go .
All I 've got to do is be patient and wait . ''
So the hunter took his terrible gun and tramped across the meadow to the brush-grown pasture .
There he hid among the bushes where he could peep out and watch the land of Lightfoot 's friend .
He was still angry because he had been prevented from shooting Lightfoot .
At the same time he chuckled , because he thought himself very smart .
Lightfoot could n't possibly reach the shelter of the woods without giving him a shot , and he had n't the least doubt that Lightfoot would start for the woods just as soon as he felt able to travel .
So he made himself comfortable and prepared to wait the rest of the day , if necessary .
Now Lightfoot 's friend who had driven the hunter off had seen him row down the river and he had guessed just what was in that hunter 's mind .
`` We 'll fool him , '' said he , chuckling to himself , as he walked back towards the shed where poor Lightfoot was resting .
He did not go too near Lightfoot , for he did not want to alarm him .
He just kept within sight of Lightfoot , paying no attention to him but going about his work .
You see , this man loved and understood the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , and he knew that there was no surer way of winning Lightfoot 's confidence and trust than by appearing to take no notice of him .
Lightfoot , watching him , understood .
He knew that this man was a friend and would do him no harm .
Little by little , the wonderful , blessed feeling of safety crept over Lightfoot .
No hunter could harm him here .
CHAPTER XXVI : Lightfoot Does The Wise Thing All the rest of that day the hunter with the terrible gun lay hidden in the bushes of the pasture where he could watch for Lightfoot the Deer to leave the place of safety he had found .
It required a lot of patience on the part of the hunter , but the hunter had plenty of patience .
It sometimes seems as if hunters have more patience than any other people .
But this hunter waited in vain .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun sank down in the west to his bed behind the Purple Hills .
The Black Shadows crept out and grew blacker .
One by one the stars began to twinkle .
Still the hunter waited , and still there was no sign of Lightfoot .
At last it became so dark that it was useless for the hunter to remain longer .
Disappointed and once more becoming angry , he tramped back to the Big River , climbed into his boat and rowed across to the other side .
Then he tramped home and his thoughts were very bitter .
He knew that he could have shot Lightfoot had it not been for the man who had protected the Deer .
He even began to suspect that this man had himself killed Lightfoot , for he had been sure that as soon as he had become rested Lightfoot would start for the woods , and Lightfoot had done nothing of the kind .
In fact , the hunter had not had so much as another glimpse of Lightfoot .
The reason that the hunter had been so disappointed was that Lightfoot was smart .
He was smart enough to understand that the man who was saving him from the hunter had done it because he was a true friend .
All the afternoon Lightfoot had rested on a bed of soft hay in an open shed and had watched this man going about his work and taking the utmost care to do nothing to frighten Lightfoot .
`` He not only will let no one else harm me , but he himself will not harm me , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` As long as he is near , I am safe .
I 'll stay right around here until the hunting season is over , then I 'll swim back across the Big River to my home in the dear Green Forest . ''
So all afternoon Lightfoot rested and did not so much as put his nose outside that open shed .
That is why the hunter got no glimpse of him .
When it became dark , so dark that he knew there was no longer danger , Lightfoot got up and stepped out under the stars .
He was feeling quite himself again .
His splendid strength had returned .
He bounded lightly across the meadow and up into the brushy pasture where the hunter had been hidden .
There and in the woods back of the pasture he browsed , but at the first hint of the coming of another day , Lightfoot turned back , and when his friend , the farmer , came out early in the morning to milk the cows , there was Lightfoot back in the open shed .
The farmer smiled .
`` You are as wise as you are handsome , old fellow , '' said he .
CHAPTER XXVII : Sammy Jay Worries It is n't often Sammy Jay worries about anybody but himself .
Truth to tell , he does n't worry about himself very often .
You see , Sammy is smart , and he knows he is smart .
Under that pointed cap of his are some of the cleverest wits in all the Green Forest .
Sammy seldom worries about himself because he feels quite able to take care of himself .
But Sammy Jay was worrying now .
He was worrying about Lightfoot the Deer .
Yes , Sir , Sammy Jay was worrying about Lightfoot the Deer .
For two days he had been unable to find Lightfoot or any trace of Lightfoot .
But he did find plenty of hunters with terrible guns .
It seemed to him that they were everywhere in the Green Forest .
Sammy began to suspect that one of them must have succeeded in killing Lightfoot the Deer .
Sammy knew all of Lightfoot 's hiding-places .
He visited every one of them .
Lightfoot was n't to be found , and no one whom Sammy met had seen Lightfoot for two days .
Sammy felt badly .
You see , he was very fond of Lightfoot .
You remember it was Sammy who warned Lightfoot of the coming of the hunter on the morning when the dreadful hunting season began .
Ever since the hunting season had opened , Sammy had done his best to make trouble for the hunters .
Whenever he had found one of them he had screamed at the top of his voice to warn every one within hearing just where that hunter was .
Once a hunter had lost his temper and shot at Sammy , but Sammy had suspected that something of the kind might happen , and he had taken care to keep just out of reach .
Sammy had known all about the chasing of Lightfoot by the hounds .
Everybody in the Green Forest had known about it .
You see , everybody had heard the voices of those hounds .
Once , Lightfoot had passed right under the tree in which Sammy was sitting , and a few moments later the two hounds had passed with their noses to the ground as they followed Lightfoot 's trail .
That was the last Sammy had seen of Lightfoot .
He had been able to save Lightfoot from the hunters , but he could n't save him from the hounds .
The more Sammy thought things over , the more he worried .
`` I am afraid those hounds drove him out where a hunter could get a shot and kill him , or else that they tired him out and killed him themselves , '' thought Sammy .
`` If he were alive , somebody certainly would have seen him and nobody has , since the day those hounds chased him .
I declare , I have quite lost my appetite worrying about him .
If Lightfoot is dead , and I am almost sure he is , the Green Forest will never seem the same . ''
CHAPTER XXVIII : The Hunting Season Ends The very worst things come to an end at last .
No matter how bad a thing is , it can not last forever .
So it was with the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
There came a day when the law protected all Deer , -- a day when the hunters could no longer go searching for Lightfoot .
Usually there was great rejoicing among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows when the hunting season ended and they knew that Lightfoot would be in no more danger until the next hunting season .
But this year there was no rejoicing .
You see , no one could find Lightfoot .
The last seen of him was when he was running for his life with two hounds baying on his trail and the Green Forest filled with hunters watching for a chance to shoot him .
Sammy Jay had hunted everywhere through the Green Forest .
Blacky the Crow , whose eyes are quite as sharp as those of Sammy Jay , had joined in the search .
They had found no trace of Lightfoot .
Paddy the Beaver said that for three days Lightfoot had not visited his pond for a drink .
Billy Mink , who travels up and down the Laughing Brook , had looked for Lightfoot 's footprints in the soft earth along the banks and had found only old ones .
Jumper the Hare had visited Lightfoot 's favorite eating places at night , but Lightfoot had not been in any of them .
`` I tell you what it is , '' said Sammy Jay to Bobby Coon , `` something has happened to Lightfoot .
Either those hounds caught him and killed him , or he was shot by one of those hunters .
The Green Forest will never be the same without him .
I do n't think I shall want to come over here very much .
There is n't one of all the other people who live in the Green Forest who would be missed as Lightfoot will be . ''
Bobby Coon nodded .
`` That 's true , Sammy , '' said he .
`` Without Lightfoot , the Green Forest will never be the same .
He never harmed anybody .
Why those hunters should have been so anxious to kill one so beautiful is something I ca n't understand .
For that matter , I do n't understand why they want to kill any of us .
If they really needed us for food , it would be a different matter , but they do n't .
Have you been up in the Old Pasture and asked Old Man Coyote if he has seen anything of Lightfoot ? ''
Sammy nodded .
`` I 've been up there twice , '' said he .
`` Old Man Coyote has been lying very low during the days , but nights he has done a lot of traveling .
You know Old Man Coyote has a mighty good nose , but not once since the day those hounds chased Lightfoot has he found so much as a tiny whiff of Lightfoot 's scent .
I thought he might have found the place where Lightfoot was killed , but he has n't , although he has looked for it .
Well , the hunting season for Lightfoot is over , but I am afraid it has ended too late . ''
CHAPTER XXIX : Mr. And Mrs. Quack Are Startled It was the evening of the day after the closing of the hunting season for Lightfoot the Deer .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had gone to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows had crept out across the Big River .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack were getting their evening meal among the brown stalks of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River .
They took turns in searching for the rice grains in the mud .
While Mrs. Quack tipped up and seemed to stand on her head as she searched in the mud for rice , Mr. Quack kept watch for possible danger .
Then Mrs. Quack took her turn at keeping watch , while Mr. Quack stood on his head and hunted for rice .
It was wonderfully quiet and peaceful .
There was not even a ripple on the Big River .
It was so quiet that they could hear the barking of a dog at a farmhouse a mile away .
They were far enough out from the bank to have nothing to fear from Reddy Fox or Old Man Coyote .
So they had nothing to fear from any one save Hooty the Owl .
It was for Hooty that they took turns in watching .
It was just the hour when Hooty likes best to hunt .
By and by they heard Booty 's hunting call .
It was far away in the Green Forest , Then Mr. and Mrs. Quack felt easier , and they talked in low , contented voices .
They felt that for a while at least there was nothing to fear .
Suddenly a little splash out in the Big River caught Mr. Quack 's quick ear .
As Mrs. Quack brought her head up out of the water , Mr. Quack warned her to keep quiet .
Noiselessly they swam among the brown stalks until they could see out across the Big River .
There was another little splash out there in the middle .
It was n't the splash made by a fish ; it was a splash made by something much bigger than any fish .
Presently they made out a silver line moving towards them from the Black Shadows .
They knew exactly what it meant .
It meant that some one was out there in the Big River moving towards them .
Could it be a boat containing a hunter ?
With their necks stretched high , Mr. and Mrs. Quack watched .
They were ready to take to their strong wings the instant they discovered danger .
But they did not want to fly until they were sure that it WAS danger approaching .
They were startled , very much startled .
Presently they made out what looked like the branch of a tree moving over the water towards them .
That was queer , very queer .
Mr. Quack said so .
Mrs. Quack said so .
Both were growing more and more suspicious .
They could n't understand it at all , and it is always best to be suspicious of things you can not understand .
Mr. and Mrs. Quack half lifted their wings to fly .
CHAPTER XXX : The Mystery Is Solved It was very mysterious .
Yes , Sir , it was very mysterious .
Mr. Quack thought so .
Mrs. Quack thought so .
There , out in the Big River , in the midst of the Black Shadows , was something which looked like the branch of a tree .
But instead of moving down the river , as the branch of a tree would if it were floating , this was coming straight across the river as if it were swimming .
But how could the branch of a tree swim ?
That was too much for Mr. Quack .
It was too much for Mrs. Quack .
So they sat perfectly still among the brown stalks of the wild rice along the edge of the Big River , and not for a second did they take their eyes from that strange thing moving towards them .
They were ready to spring into the air and trust to their swift wings the instant they should detect danger .
But they did not want to fly unless they had to .
Besides , they were curious .
They were very curious indeed .
They wanted to find out what that mysterious thing moving through the water towards them was .
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack watched that thing that looked like a swimming branch draw nearer and nearer , and the nearer it drew the more they were puzzled , and the more curious they felt .
If it had been the pond of Paddy the Beaver instead of the Big River , they would have thought it was Paddy swimming with a branch for his winter food pile .
But Paddy the Beaver was way back in his own pond , deep in the Green Forest , and they knew it .
So this thing became more and more of a mystery .
The nearer it came , the more nervous and anxious they grew , and at the same time the greater became their curiosity .
At last Mr. Quack felt that not even to gratify his curiosity would it be safe to wait longer .
He prepared to spring into the air , knowing that Mrs. Quack would follow him .
It was just then that a funny little sound reached him .
It was half snort , half cough , as if some one had sniffed some water up his nose .
There was something familiar about that sound .
Mr. Quack decided to wait a few minutes longer .
`` I 'll wait , '' thought Mr. Quack , `` until that thing , whatever it is , comes out of those Black Shadows into the moonlight .
Somehow I have a feeling that we are in no danger . ''
So Mr. and Mrs. Quack waited and watched .
In a few minutes the thing that looked like the branch of a tree came out of the Black Shadows into the moonlight , and then the mystery was solved .
It was a mystery no longer .
They saw that they had mistaken the antlers of Lightfoot the Deer for the branch of a tree .
Lightfoot was swimming across the Big River on his way back to his home in the Green Forest .
At once Mr. and Mrs. Quack swam out to meet him and to tell him how glad they were that he was alive and safe .
CHAPTER XXXI : A Surprising Discovery Probably there was no happier Thanksgiving in all the Great World than the Thanksgiving of Lightfoot the Deer , when the dreadful hunting season ended and he was once more back in his beloved Green Forest with nothing to fear .
All his neighbors called on him to tell him how glad they were that he had escaped and how the Green Forest would not have been the same if he had not returned .
So Lightfoot roamed about without fear and was happy .
It seemed to him that he could not be happier .
There was plenty to eat and that blessed feeling of nothing to fear .
What more could any one ask ?
He began to grow sleek and fat and handsomer than ever .
The days were growing colder and the frosty air made him feel good .
Just at dusk one evening he went down to his favorite drinking place at the Laughing Brook .
As he put down his head to drink he saw something which so surprised him that he quite forgot he was thirsty .
What do you think it was he saw ?
It was a footprint in the soft mud .
Yes , Sir , it was a footprint .
For a long time Lightfoot stood staring at that footprint .
In his great , soft eyes was a look of wonder and surprise .
You see , that footprint was exactly like one of his own , only smaller .
To Lightfoot it was a very wonderful footprint .
He was quite sure that never had he seen such a dainty footprint .
He forgot to drink .
Instead , he began to search for other footprints , and presently he found them .
Each was as dainty as that first one .
Who could have made them ?
That is what Lightfoot wanted to know and what he meant to find out .
It was clear to him that there was a stranger in the Green Forest , and somehow he did n't resent it in the least .
In fact , he was glad .
He could n't have told why , but it was true .
Lightfoot put his nose to the footprints and sniffed of them .
Even had he not known by looking at those prints that they had been made by a stranger , his nose would have told him this .
A great longing to find the maker of those footprints took possession of him .
He lifted his handsome head and listened for some slight sound which might show that the stranger was near .
With his delicate nostrils he tested the wandering little Night Breezes for a stray whiff of scent to tell him which way to go .
But there was no sound and the wandering little Night Breezes told him nothing .
Lightfoot followed the dainty footprints up the bank .
There they disappeared , for the ground was hard .
Lightfoot paused , undecided which way to go .
CHAPTER XXXII : Lightfoot Sees The Stranger Lightfoot the Deer was unhappy .
It was a strange unhappiness , an unhappiness such as he had never known before .
You see , he had discovered that there was a stranger in the Green Forest , a stranger of his own kind , another Deer .
He knew it by dainty footprints in the mud along the Laughing Brook and on the edge of the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
He knew it by other signs which he ran across every now and then .
But search as he would , he was unable to find that newcomer .
He had searched everywhere but always he was just too late .
The stranger had been and gone .
Now there was no anger in Lightfoot 's desire to find that stranger .
Instead , there was a great longing .
For the first time in his life Lightfoot felt lonely .
So he hunted and hunted and was unhappy .
He lost his appetite .
He slept little .
He roamed about uneasily , looking , listening , testing every Merry Little Breeze , but all in vain .
Then , one never-to-be-forgotten night , as he drank at the Laughing Brook , a strange feeling swept over him .
It was the feeling of being watched .
Lightfoot lifted his beautiful head and a slight movement caught his quick eye and drew it to a thicket not far away .
The silvery light of gentle Mistress Moon fell full on that thicket , and thrust out from it was the most beautiful head in all the Great World .
At least , that is the way it seemed to Lightfoot , though to tell the truth it was not as beautiful as his own , for it was uncrowned by antlers .
For a long minute Lightfoot stood gazing .
A pair of wonderful , great , soft eyes gazed back at him .
Then that beautiful head disappeared .
With a mighty bound , Lightfoot cleared the Laughing Brook and rushed over to the thicket in which that beautiful head had disappeared .
He plunged in , but there was no one there .
Frantically he searched , but that thicket was empty .
Then he stood still and listened .
Not a sound reached him .
It was as still as if there were no other living things in all the Green Forest .
The beautiful stranger had slipped away as silently as a shadow .
All the rest of that night Lightfoot searched through the Green Forest but his search was in vain .
The longing to find that beautiful stranger had become so great that he fairly ached with it .
It seemed to him that until he found her he could know no happiness .
CHAPTER XXXIII : A Different Game Of Hide And Seek Once more Lightfoot the Deer was playing hide and seek in the Green Forest .
But it was a very different game from the one he had played just a short time before .
You remember that then it had been for his life that he had played , and he was the one who had done all the hiding .
Now , he was `` it '' , and some one else was doing the hiding .
Instead of the dreadful fear which had filled him in that other game , he was now filled with longing , -- longing to find and make friends with the beautiful stranger of whom he had just once caught a glimpse , but of whom every day he found tracks .
At times Lightfoot would lose his temper .
Yes , Sir , Lightfoot would lose his temper .
That was a foolish thing to do , but it seemed to him that he just could n't help it .
He would stamp his feet angrily and thrash the bushes with his great spreading antlers as if they were an enemy with whom he was fighting .
More than once when he did this a pair of great , soft , gentle eyes were watching him , though he did n't know it .
If he could have seen them and the look of admiration in them , he would have been more eager than ever to find that beautiful stranger .
At other times Lightfoot would steal about through the Green Forest as noiselessly as a shadow .
He would peer into thickets and behind tangles of fallen trees and brush piles , hoping to surprise the one he sought .
He would be very , very patient .
Perhaps he would come to the thicket which he knew from the signs the stranger had left only a few moments before .
Then his patience would vanish in impatience , and he would dash ahead , eager to catch up with the shy stranger .
But always it was in vain .
He had thought himself very clever but this stranger was proving herself more clever .
Of course it was n't long before all the little people in the Green Forest knew what was going on .
They knew all about that game of hide and seek just as they had known all about that other game of hide and seek with the hunters .
But now , instead of trying to help Lightfoot as they did then , they gave him no help at all .
The fact is , they were enjoying that game .
Mischievous Sammy Jay even went so far as to warn the stranger several times when Lightfoot was approaching .
Of course Lightfoot knew when Sammy did this , and each time he lost his temper .
For the time being , he quite forgot all that Sammy had done for him when he was the one that was being hunted .
Once Lightfoot almost ran smack into Buster Bear and was so provoked by his own carelessness that instead of bounding away he actually threatened to fight Buster .
But when Buster grinned good-naturedly at him , Lightfoot thought better of it and bounded away to continue his search .
Then there were times when Lightfoot would sulk and would declare over and over to himself , `` I do n't care anything about that stranger .
I wo n't spend another minute looking for her . ''
And then within five minutes he would be watching , listening and seeking some sign that she was still in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXIV : A Startling New Footprint The game of hide and seek between Lightfoot the Deer and the beautiful stranger whose dainty footprints had first started Lightfoot to seeking her had been going on for several days and nights when Lightfoot found something which gave him a shock .
He had stolen very softly clown to the Laughing Brook , hoping to surprise the beautiful stranger drinking there .
She was n't to be seen .
Lightfoot wondered if she had been there , so looked in the mud at the edge of the Laughing Brook to see if there were any fresh prints of those dainty feet .
Almost at once he discovered fresh footprints .
They were not the prints he was looking for .
No , Sir , they were not the dainty prints he had learned to know so well .
They were prints very near the size of his own big ones , and they had been made only a short time before .
The finding of those prints was a dreadful shock to Lightfoot .
He understood instantly what they meant .
They meant that a second stranger had come into the Green Forest , one who had antlers like his own .
Jealousy took possession of Lightfoot the Deer ; jealousy that filled his heart with rage .
`` He has come here to seek that beautiful stranger I have been hunting for , '' thought Lightfoot .
`` He has come here to try to steal her away from me .
He has no right here in my Green Forest .
He belongs back up on the Great Mountain from which he must have come , for there is no other place he could have come from .
That is where that beautiful stranger must have come from , too .
I want her to stay , but I must drive this fellow out .
I 'll make him fight .
That 's what I 'll do ; I 'll make him fight !
I 'm not afraid of him , but I 'll make him fear me . ''
Lightfoot stamped his feet and with his great antlers thrashed the bushes as if he felt that they were the enemy he sought .
Could you have looked into his great eyes then , you would have found nothing soft and beautiful about them .
They became almost red with anger .
Lightfoot quivered all over with rage .
The hair on the back of his neck stood up .
Lightfoot the Deer looked anything but gentle .
After he had vented his spite for a few minutes on the harmless , helpless bushes , he threw his head high in the air and whistled angrily .
Then he leaped over the Laughing Brook and once more began to search through the Green Forest .
But this time it was not for the beautiful stranger with the dainty feet .
He had no time to think of her now .
He must first find this newcomer and he meant to waste no time in doing it .
CHAPTER XXXV : Lightfoot Is Reckless In his search for the new stranger who had come to the Green Forest , Lightfoot the Deer was wholly reckless .
He no longer stole like a gray shadow from thicket to thicket as he had done when searching for the beautiful stranger with the dainty feet .
He bounded along , careless of how much noise he made .
From time to time he would stop to whistle a challenge and to clash his horns against the trees and stamp the ground with his feet .
After such exhibitions of anger he would pause to listen , hoping to hear some sound which would tell him where the stranger was .
Now and then he found the stranger 's tracks , and from them he knew that this stranger was doing : just what he had been doing , seeking to find the beautiful newcomer with the dainty feet .
Each time he found these signs Lightfoot 's rage increased .
Of course it did n't take Sammy Jay long to discover what was going on .
There is little that escapes those sharp eyes of Sammy Jay .
As you know , he had early discovered the game of hide and seek Lightfoot had been playing with the beautiful young visitor who had come down to the Green Forest from the Great Mountain .
Then , by chance , Sammy had visited the Laughing Brook just as the big stranger had come down there to drink .
For once Sammy had kept his tongue still .
`` There is going to be excitement here when Lightfoot discovers this fellow , '' thought Sammy .
`` If they ever meet , and I have a feeling that they will , there is going to be a fight worth seeing .
I must pass the word around . ''
So Sammy Jay hunted up his cousin , Blacky the Crow , and told him what he had discovered .
Then he hunted up Bobby Coon and told him .
He saw Unc ' Billy Possum sitting in the doorway of his hollow tree and told him .
He discovered Jumper the Hare sitting under a little hemlock-tree and told him .
Then he flew over to the dear Old Briar-patch to tell Peter Rabbit .
Of course he told Drummer the Woodpecker , Tommy Tit the Chickadee , and Yank Yank the Nuthatch , who were over in the Old Orchard , and they at once hurried to the Green Forest , for they could n't think of missing anything so exciting as would be the meeting between Lightfoot and the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
Sammy did n't forget to tell Paddy the Beaver , but it was no news to Paddy .
Paddy had seen the big stranger on the edge of his pond early the night before .
Of course , Lightfoot knew nothing about all this .
His one thought was to find that big stranger and drive him from the Green Forest , and so he continued his search tirelessly .
CHAPTER XXXVI : Sammy Jay Takes A Hand Sammy Jay was bubbling over with excitement as he flew about through the Green Forest , following Lightfoot the Deer .
He was so excited he wanted to scream .
But he did n't .
He kept his tongue still .
You see , he did n't want Lightfoot to know that he was being followed .
Under that pointed cap of Sammy Jay 's are quick wits .
It did n't take him long to discover that the big stranger whom Lightfoot was seeking was doing his best to keep out of Lightfoot 's way and that he was having no difficulty in doing so because of the reckless way in which Lightfoot was searching for him .
Lightfoot made so much noise that it was quite easy to know just where he was and so keep out of his sight .
`` That stranger is nearly as big as Lightfoot , but it is very plain that he does n't want to fight , '' thought Sammy .
`` He must be a coward . ''
Now the truth is , the stranger was not a coward .
He was ready and willing to fight if he had to , but if he could avoid fighting he meant to .
You see , big as he was , he was n't quite so big as Lightfoot , and he knew it .
He had seen Lightfoot 's big footprints , and from their size he knew that Lightfoot must be bigger and heavier than he .
Then , too , he knew that he really had no right to be there in the Green Forest .
That was Lightfoot 's home and so he was an intruder .
He knew that Lightfoot would feel this way about it and that this would make him fight all the harder .
So the big stranger wanted to avoid a fight if possible .
But he wanted still more to find that beautiful young visitor with the dainty feet for whom Lightfoot had been looking .
He wanted to find her just as Lightfoot wanted to find her , and he hoped that if he did find her , he could take her away with him back to the Great Mountain .
If he had to , he would fight for her , but until he had to he would keep out of the fight .
So he dodged Lightfoot and at the same time looked for the beautiful stranger .
All this Sammy Jay guessed , and after a while he grew tired of following Lightfoot for nothing .
`` I 'll have to take a hand in this thing myself , '' muttered Sammy .
`` At this rate , Lightfoot never will find that big stranger ! ''
So Sammy stopped following Lightfoot and began to search through the Green Forest for the big stranger .
It did n't take very long to find him .
He was over near the pond of Paddy the Beaver .
As soon as he saw him , Sammy began to scream at the top of his lungs .
At once he heard the sound of snapping twigs at the top of a little ridge back of Paddy 's pond and knew that Lightfoot had heard and understood .
CHAPTER XXXVII : The Great Fight Down from the top of the ridge back of the pond of Paddy the Beaver plunged Lightfoot the Deer , his eyes blazing with rage .
He had understood the screaming of Sammy Jay .
He knew that somewhere down there was the big stranger he had been looking for .
The big stranger had understood Sammy 's screaming quite as well as Lightfoot .
He knew that to run away now would be to prove himself a coward and forever disgrace himself in the eyes of Miss Daintyfoot , for that was the name of the beautiful stranger he had been seeking .
He MUST fight .
There was no way out of it , he MUST fight .
The hair on the back of his neck stood up with anger just as did the hair on the neck of Lightfoot .
His eyes also blazed .
He bounded out into a little open place by the pond of Paddy the Beaver and there he waited .
Meanwhile Sammy Jay was flying about in the greatest excitement , screaming at the top of his lungs , `` A fight !
A fight !
A fight ! ''
Blacky the Crow , over in another part of the Green Forest , heard him and took up the cry and at once hurried over to Paddy 's pond .
Everybody who was near enough hurried there .
Bobby Coon and Unc ' Billy Possum climbed trees from which they could see and at the same time be safe .
Billy Mink hurried to a safe place on the dam of Paddy the Beaver .
Paddy himself climbed up on the roof of his house out in the pond .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare , who happened to be not far away , hurried over where they could peep out from under some young hemlock-trees .
Buster Bear shuffled down the hill and watched from the other side of the pond .
Reddy and Granny Fox were both there .
For what seemed like the longest time , but which was for only a minute , Lightfoot and the big stranger stood still , glaring at each other .
Then , snorting with rage , they lowered their heads and plunged together .
Their antlers clashed with a noise that rang through the Green Forest , and both fell to their knees .
There they pushed and struggled .
Then they separated and backed away , to repeat the movement over again .
It was a terrible fight .
Everybody said so .
If they had not known before , everybody knew now what those great antlers were for .
Once the big stranger managed to reach Lightfoot 's right shoulder with one of the sharp points of his antlers and made a long tear in Lightfoot 's gray coat .
It only made Lightfoot fight harder .
Sometimes they would rear up and strike with their sharp hoofs .
Back and forth they plunged , and the ground was torn up by their feet .
Both were getting out of breath , and from time to time they had to stop for a moment 's rest .
Then they would come together again more fiercely than ever .
Never had such a fight been seen in the Green Forest .
CHAPTER XXXVIII : An Unseen Watcher As Lightfoot the Deer and the big stranger from the Great Mountain fought in the little opening near the pond of Paddy the Beaver , neither knew or cared who saw them .
Each was filled fully with rage and determined to drive the other from the Green Forest .
Each was fighting for the right to win the love of Miss Daintyfoot .
Neither of them knew that Miss Daintyfoot herself was watching them .
But she was .
She had heard the clash of their great antlers as they had come together the first time , and she had known exactly what it meant .
Timidly she had stolen forward to a thicket where , safely hidden , she could watch that terrible fight .
She knew that they were fighting for her .
Of course .
She knew it just as she had known how both had been hunting for her .
What she did n't know for some time was which one she wanted to win that fight .
Both Lightfoot and the big stranger were handsome .
Yes , indeed , they were very handsome .
Lightfoot was just a little bit the bigger and it seemed to her just a little bit the handsomer .
She almost wanted him to win .
Then , when she saw how bravely the big stranger was fighting and how well he was holding his own , even though he was a little smaller than Lightfoot , she almost hoped he would win .
That great fight lasted a long time .
To pretty Miss Daintyfoot it seemed that it never would end .
But after a while Lightfoot 's greater size and strength began to tell .
Little by little the big stranger was forced back towards the edge of the open place .
Now he would be thrown to his knees when Lightfoot was n't .
As Lightfoot saw this , he seemed to gain new strength .
At last he caught the stranger in such a way that he threw him over .
While the stranger struggled to get to his feet again , Lightfoot 's sharp antlers made long tears in his gray coat .
The stranger was beaten and he knew it .
The instant he succeeded in getting to his feet he turned tail and plunged for the shelter of the Green Forest .
With a snort of triumph , Lightfoot plunged after him .
But now that he was beaten , fear took possession of the stranger .
All desire to fight left him .
His one thought was to get away , and fear gave him speed .
Straight back towards the Great Mountain from which he had come the stranger headed .
Lightfoot followed only a short distance .
He knew that that stranger was going for good and would not come back .
Then Lightfoot turned back to the open place where they had fought .
There he threw up his beautiful head , crowned by its great antlers , and whistled a challenge to all the Green Forest .
As she looked at him , Miss Daintyfoot knew that she had wanted him to win .
She knew that there simply could n't be anybody else so handsome and strong and brave in all the Great World .
CHAPTER XXXIX : Lightfoot Discovers Love Wonderfully handsome was Lightfoot the Deer as he stood in the little opening by the pond of Paddy the Beaver , his head thrown back proudly , as he received the congratulations of his neighbors of the Green Forest who had seen him win the great fight with the big stranger who had come down from the Great Mountain .
To beautiful Miss Daintyfoot , peeping out from the thicket where she had hidden to watch the great fight , Lightfoot was the most wonderful person in all the Great World .
She adored him , which means that she loved him just as much as it was possible for her to love .
But Lightfoot did n't know this .
In fact , he did n't know that Miss Daintyfoot was there .
His one thought had been to drive out of the Green Forest the big stranger who had come down from the Great Mountain .
He had been jealous of that big stranger , though he had n't known that he was jealous .
The real cause of his anger and desire to fight had been the fear that the big stranger would find Miss Daintyfoot and take her away .
Of course this was nothing but jealousy .
Now that the great fight was over , and he knew that the big stranger was hurrying back to the Great Mountain , all Lightfoot 's anger melted away .
In its place was a great longing to find Miss Daintyfoot .
His great eyes became once more soft and beautiful .
In them was a look of wistfulness .
Lightfoot walked down to the edge of the water and drank , for he was very , very thirsty .
Then he turned , intending to take up once more his search for beautiful Miss Daintyfoot .
When he turned he faced the thicket in which Miss Daintyfoot was hiding .
His keen eyes caught a little movement of the branches .
A beautiful head was slowly thrust out , and Lightfoot gazed again into a pair of soft eyes which he was sure were the most beautiful eyes in all the Great World .
He wondered if she would disappear and run away as she had the last time he saw her .
He took a step or two forward .
The beautiful head was withdrawn .
Lightfoot 's heart sank .
Then he bounded forward into that thicket .
He more than half expected to find no one there , but when he entered that thicket he received the most wonderful surprise in all his life .
There stood Miss Daintyfoot , timid , bashful , but with a look in her eyes which Lightfoot could not mistake .
In that instant Light-foot understood the meaning of that longing which had kept him hunting for her and of the rage which had filled him when he had discovered the presence of the big stranger from the Great Mountain .
It was love .
Lightfoot knew that he loved Miss Daintyfoot and , looking into her soft , gentle eyes , he knew that Miss Daintyfoot loved him .
CHAPTER XL : Happy Days In The Green Forest These were happy days in the Green Forest .
At least , they were happy for Lightfoot the Deer .
They were the happiest days he had ever known .
You see , he had won beautiful , slender , young Miss Daintyfoot , and now she was no longer Miss Daintyfoot but Mrs. Lightfoot .
Lightfoot was sure that there was no one anywhere so beautiful as she , and Mrs. Lightfoot knew that there was no one so handsome and brave as he .
Wherever Lightfoot went , Mrs. Lightfoot went .
He showed her all his favorite hiding-places .
He led her to his favorite eating-places .
She did not tell him that she was already acquainted with every one of them , that she knew the Green Forest quite as well as he did .
If he had stopped to think how day after day she had managed to keep out of his sight while he hunted for her , he would have realized that there was little he could show her which she did not already know .
But he did n't stop to think and proudly led her from place to place .
And Mrs. Lightfoot wisely expressed delight with all she saw quite as if it were all new .
Of course , all the little people of the Green Forest hurried to pay their respects to Mrs. Lightfoot and to tell Lightfoot how glad they felt for him .
And they really did feel glad .
You see , they all loved Lightfoot and they knew that now he would be happier than ever , and that there would be no danger of his leaving the Green Forest because of loneliness .
The Green Forest would not be the same at all without Lightfoot the Deer .
Lightfoot told Mrs. Lightfoot all about the terrible days of the hunting season and how glad he was that she had not been in the Green Forest then .
He told her how the hunters with terrible guns had given him no rest and how he had had to swim the Big River to get away from the hounds .
`` I know , '' replied Mrs. Lightfoot softly .
`` I know all about it .
You see , there were hunters on the Great Mountain .
In fact , that is how I happened to come down to the Green Forest .
They hunted me so up there that I did not dare stay , and I came down here thinking that there might be fewer hunters .
I would n't have believed that I could ever be thankful to hunters for anything , but I am , truly I am . ''
There was a puzzled look on Lightfoot 's face .
`` What for ? ''
he demanded .
`` I ca n't imagine anybody being thankful to hunters for anything . ''
`` Oh , you stupid , '' cried Mrs. Lightfoot .
`` Do n't you see that if I had n't been driven down from the Great Mountain , I never would have found YOU ? ''
`` You mean , I never would have found YOU , '' retorted Lightfoot .
`` I guess I owe these hunters more than you do .
I owe them the greatest happiness I have ever known , but I never would have thought of it myself .
Is n't it queer how things which seem the very worst possible sometimes turn out to be the very best possible ? ''
Blacky the Crow is one of Lightfoot 's friends , but sometimes even friends are envious .
It is so with Blacky .
He insists that he is quite as important in the Green Forest as is Lightfoot and that his doings are quite as interesting .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Mother_West_Wind's_Children.txt.out
I DANNY MEADOW MOUSE LEARNS WHY HIS TAIL IS SHORT Danny Meadow Mouse sat in his doorway and looked down the Lone Little Path across the Green Meadows .
Way , way over near the Smiling Pool he could see Old Mother West Wind 's Children , the Merry Little Breezes , at play .
Sammy Jay was sitting on a fence post .
He pretended to be taking a sun bath , but really he was planning mischief .
You never see Sammy Jay that he is n't in mischief or planning it .
Reddy Fox had trotted past an hour before in a great hurry .
Up on the hill Danny Meadow Mouse could just see Jimmy Skunk pulling over every old stick and stone he could find , no matter whose house it might be , and excusing himself because he was hungry and was looking for beetles .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun was playing at hide and seek behind some fleecy white clouds .
All the birds were singing and singing , and the world was happy -- all but Danny Meadow Mouse .
No , Danny Meadow Mouse was not happy .
Indeed , he was very far from happy , and all because his tail was short .
By and by up came old Mr. Toad .
It was a warm day and Mr. Toad was very hot and very , very thirsty .
He stopped to rest beside the house of Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` Good morning , Danny Meadow Mouse , '' said old Mr. Toad , `` it 's a fine morning . ''
`` Morning , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse , grumpily .
`` I hope your health is good this morning , '' continued old Mr. Toad , just as if he had n't noticed how short and cross Danny Meadow Mouse had answered .
Now old Mr. Toad is very ugly to look upon , but the ugliness is all in his looks .
He has the sunniest of hearts and always he is looking for a chance to help someone .
`` Danny Meadow Mouse , '' said old Mr. Toad , `` you make me think of your grandfather a thousand times removed .
You do indeed .
You look just as he did when he lost the half of his tail and realized that he never , never could get it back again . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse sat up suddenly .
`` What are you talking about , old Mr. Toad ?
What are you talking about ? ''
he asked .
`` Did my grandfather a thousand times removed lose the half of his tail , and was it shorter then than mine is now ?
Was it , old Mr. Toad ?
And how did he come to lose the half of it ? ''
Old Mr. Toad laughed a funny silent laugh .
`` It 's a long story , '' said old Mr. Toad , `` and I 'm afraid I ca n't tell it .
Go down to the Smiling Pool and ask Great-Grandfather Frog , who is my first cousin , how it happened your grandfather a thousand times removed lost the half of his tail .
But before you go catch three fat , foolish , green flies and take them with you as a present to Grandfather Frog . ''
Danny Meadow Mouse could hardly wait for old Mr. Toad to stop speaking .
In fact , he was in such a hurry that he almost forgot his manners .
Not quite , however , for he shouted `` Thank you , Mr. Toad , thank you ! ''
over his shoulder as he rushed off down the Lone Little Path .
You see his short tail had always been a matter of mortification to Danny Meadow Mouse .
All his cousins in the Mouse family and the Rat family have long , smooth , tapering tails , and they have always been a source of envy to Danny Meadow Mouse .
He had felt his queer short tail to be a sort of disgrace .
So when he would meet one of his cousins dancing down the Lone Little Path , with his long , slim , tapering tail behind him , Danny Meadow Mouse would slip out of sight under the long grass , he was so ashamed of his own little tail .
It looked so mean and small !
He had wondered and wondered if the Meadow Mice had always had short tails .
He used to ask everyone who came his way if they had ever seen a Meadow Mouse with a long tail , but he had never found any one who had .
`` Perhaps , '' thought Danny Meadow Mouse as he hurried down the Lone Little Path , `` perhaps Grandfather Frog , who is very wise , will know why my tail is short . ''
So he hurried this way and he hurried that way over the Green Meadows in search of fat , foolish , green flies .
And when he had caught three , he caught one more for good measure .
Then he started for the Smiling Pool as fast as his short legs would take him .
When finally he reached the edge of the Smiling Pool he was quite out of breath .
There sat Great-Grandfather Frog on his big , green lily pad .
He was blinking his great goggle eyes at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun .
`` Oh , Grandfather Frog , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse in a very small voice , for you know he was quite out of breath with running , `` Oh , Grandfather Frog , I 've brought you four fat , foolish , green flies . ''
Grandfather Frog put a hand behind an ear and listened .
`` Did I hear someone say ` foolish , green flies ? ' ''
asked Grandfather Frog .
`` Yes , Grandfather Frog , here they are , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse , still in a very small voice .
Then he gave Grandfather Frog the four fat , foolish , green flies .
`` What is it that you want me to do for you , Danny Meadow Mouse ? ''
asked Grandfather Frog as he smacked his lips , for he knew that Danny Meadow Mouse must want something to bring him four fat , foolish , green flies .
`` If you please , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse , very politely , `` if you please , Grandfather Frog , old Mr. Toad told me that you could tell me how Grandfather Meadow Mouse a thousand times removed lost half of his tail .
Will you , Grandfather Frog -- will you ? ''
`` Chug-a-rum , '' said Grandfather Frog .
`` My cousin , Mr. Toad , talks too much . ''
But he settled himself comfortably on the big lily pad , and this is what he told Danny Meadow Mouse : `` Once upon a time , when the world was young , Mr. Meadow Mouse , your grandfather a thousand times removed , was a very fine gentleman .
He took a great deal of pride in his appearance , did Mr. Meadow Mouse , and they used to say on the Green Meadows that he spent an hour , a full hour , every day combing his whiskers and brushing his coat .
`` Anyway , he was very fine to look upon , was Mr. Meadow Mouse , and not the least attractive thing about him was his beautiful , long , slim tail , of which he was very proud .
`` Now about this time there was a great deal of trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest , for some one was stealing -- yes , stealing !
Mr. Rabbit complained first .
To be sure , Mr. Rabbit was lazy and his cabbage patch had grown little more than weeds while he had been minding other folks ' affairs rather than his own , but , then , that was no reason why he should lose half of the little which he did raise .
And that is just what he said had happened .
`` No one really believed what Mr. Rabbit said , for he had such a bad name for telling things which were not so that when he did tell the truth no one could be quite sure of it .
`` So no one paid much heed to what Mr. Rabbit said until Happy Jack Squirrel one day went to his snug little hollow in the big chestnut tree where he stores his nuts and discovered half had been stolen .
Then Striped Chipmunk lost the greater part of his winter store of corn .
A fat trout was stolen from Billy Mink .
`` It was a terrible time , for every one suspected every one else , and no one on the Green Meadows was happy .
`` One evening Mr. Meadow Mouse went for a stroll along the Crooked Little Path up the hill .
It was dark , very dark indeed .
But just as he passed Striped Chipmunk 's granary , the place where he stores his supply of corn and acorns for the winter , Mr. Meadow Mouse met his cousin , Mr. Wharf Rat .
Now Mr. Wharf Rat was very big and strong and Mr. Meadow Mouse had for a long time looked up to and admired him . ''
` Good evening , Cousin Meadow Mouse , ' said Mr. Wharf Rat , swinging a bag down from his shoulder .
` Will you do a favor for me ? '
`` Now Mr. Meadow Mouse felt very much flattered , and as he was a very obliging fellow anyway , he promptly said he would . ''
` All right , ' said Mr. Wharf Rat .
` I 'm going to get you to tote this bag down the Crooked Little Path to the hollow chestnut tree .
I 've got an errand back on top of the hill . '
`` So Mr. Meadow Mouse picked up the bag , which was very heavy , and swung it over his shoulder .
Then he started down the Crooked Little Path .
Half way down he met Striped Chipmunk . ''
` Good evening , Mr. Meadow Mouse , ' said Striped Chipmunk .
` What are you toting in the bag across your shoulder ? '
`` Now , of course , Mr. Meadow Mouse did n't know what was in the bag and he did n't like to admit that he was working for another , for he was very proud , was Mr. Meadow Mouse .
`` So he said : ` Just a planting of potatoes I begged from Jimmy Skunk , just a planting of potatoes , Striped Chipmunk . '
`` Now no one had ever suspected Mr. Meadow Mouse of stealing -- no indeed !
Striped Chipmunk would have gone his way and thought no more about it , had it not happened that there was a hole in the bag and from it something dropped at his feet .
Striped Chipmunk picked it up and it was n't a potato .
It was a fat acorn .
Striped Chipmunk said nothing but slipped it into his pocket . ''
` Good night , ' said Mr. Meadow Mouse , once more shouldering the bag . ''
` Good night , ' said Striped Chipmunk .
`` No sooner had Mr. Meadow Mouse disappeared in the darkness down the Crooked Little Path than Striped Chipmunk hurried to his granary .
Some one had been there and stolen all his acorns !
`` Then Striped Chipmunk ran to the house of his cousin , Happy Jack Squirrel , and told him how the acorns had been stolen from his granary and how he had met Mr. Meadow Mouse with a bag over his shoulder and how Mr. Meadow Mouse had said that he was toting home a planting of potatoes he had begged from Jimmy Skunk .
` And this , ' said Striped Chipmunk , holding out the fat acorn , ` is what fell out of the bag . '
`` Then Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel hurried over to Jimmy Skunk 's house , and , just as they expected , they found that Mr. Meadow Mouse had not begged a planting of potatoes of Jimmy Skunk .
`` So Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel and Jimmy Skunk hurried over to Mr. Rabbit 's and told him all about Mr. Meadow Mouse and the bag of potatoes that dropped acorns .
Mr. Rabbit looked very grave , very grave indeed .
Then Striped Chipmunk and Happy Jack Squirrel and Jimmy Skunk and Mr. Rabbit started to tell Mr. Coon , who was cousin to old King Bear .
`` On the way they met Hooty the Owl , and because he could fly softly and quickly , they sent Hooty the Owl to tell all the meadow people who were awake to come to the hollow chestnut tree .
So Hooty the Owl flew away to tell all the little meadow people who were awake to meet at the hollow chestnut tree .
`` When they reached the hollow chestnut tree whom should they find there but Mr. Meadow Mouse fast asleep beside the bag he had brought for Mr. Wharf Rat , who had wisely stayed away .
`` Very softly Striped Chipmunk stole up and opened the bag .
Out fell his store of fat acorns .
Then they waked Mr. Meadow Mouse and marched him off to old Mother Nature , where they charged him with being a thief .
`` Old Mother Nature listened to all they had to say .
She saw the bag of acorns and she heard how Mr. Meadow Mouse had said that he had a planting of potatoes .
Then she asked him if he had stolen the acorns .
Yes , Sir , she asked him right out if he had stolen the acorns .
`` Of course Mr. Meadow Mouse said that he had not stolen the acorns . ''
` Then where did you get the bag of acorns ? '
asked old Mother Nature .
`` When she asked this , Mr. Wharf Rat , who was sitting in the crowd of meadow people , got up and softly tiptoed away when he thought no one was looking .
But old Mother Nature saw him .
You ca n't fool old Mother Nature .
No , Sir , you ca n't fool old Mother Nature , and it 's of no use to try .
`` Mr. Meadow Mouse did n't know what to say .
He knew now that Mr. Wharf Rat must be the thief , but Mr. Wharf Rat was his cousin , and he had always looked up to him as a very fine gentleman .
He could n't tell the world that Mr. Wharf Rat was a thief .
So Mr. Meadow Mouse said nothing .
`` Three times old Mother Nature asked Mr. Meadow Mouse where he got the bag of acorns , and each time Mr. Meadow Mouse said nothing . ''
` Mr. Meadow Mouse , ' said old Mother Nature , and her voice was very stern , ' I know that you did not steal the acorns of Striped Chipmunk .
I know that you did not even guess that there were stolen acorns in that bag .
Everyone else thinks that you are the thief who caused so much trouble on the Green Meadows and in the Green Forest .
But I know who the real thief is and he is stealing away as fast as he can go down the Lone Little Path this very minute . '
`` All of the little meadow people and forest folks turned to look down the Lone Little Path , but it was so dark none could see , none but Hooty the Owl , whose eyes are made to see in the dark . '' '
I see him ! '
cried Hooty the Owl .
` It 's Mr. Wharf Rat ! ' ''
` Yes , ' said old Mother Nature , ` it 's Mr. Wharf Rat -- he is the thief .
And this shall be his punishment : Always hereafter he will be driven out wherever he is found .
He shall no longer live in the Green Meadows or the Green Forest .
Everyone will turn their backs upon him .
He will live on what others throw away .
He will live in filth and there will be no one to say a good word for him .
He will become an outcast instead of a fine gentleman . ' ''
` And you , Mr. Meadow Mouse , in order that you may remember always to avoid bad company , and that while it is a splendid thing to be loyal to your friends and not to tell tales , it is also a very , very wrong thing to shield those who have done wrong when by so doing you simply help them to keep on doing wrong -- you shall no longer have the splendid long tail of which you are so proud , but it shall be short and stubby . '
`` Even while old Mother Nature was speaking , Mr. Meadow Mouse felt his tail grow shorter and shorter , and when she had finished he had just a little mean stub of a tail .
`` Of course he felt terribly .
And while Striped Chipmunk hurried to tell him how sorry he felt , and while all the other little meadow people also hurried to tell him how sorry they felt , he could not be comforted .
So he slipped away as quickly as he could , and because he was so ashamed he crept along underneath the long grass that no one should see his short tail .
And ever since that long ago time when the world was young , '' concluded Grandfather Frog , `` the Meadow Mice have had short tails and have always scurried along under cover of the long grass where no one will see them .
And the Wharf Rats have never again lived in the Green Meadows or in the Green Forest , but have lived on filth and garbage around the homes of men , with every man 's hand against them . ''
`` Thank you , Grandfather Frog , '' said Danny Meadow Mouse , very soberly .
`` Now I understand why my tail is short and I shall not forget . ''
`` But it is n't your fault at all , Danny Meadow Mouse , '' cried the Merry Little Breezes , who had been listening , `` and we love you just as much as if your tail was long ! ''
Then they played tag with him all the way up the Lone Little Path to his house , till Danny Meadow Mouse quite forgot that he had wished that his tail was long .
II WHY REDDY FOX HAS NO FRIENDS The Green Meadows lay peaceful and still .
Mother Moon , sailing high overhead , looked down upon them and smiled and smiled , flooding them with her silvery light .
All day long the Merry Little Breezes of Old Mother West Wind had romped there among the asters and goldenrod .
They had played tag through the cat rushes around the Smiling Pool .
For very mischief they had rubbed the fur of the Field Mice babies the wrong way and had blown a fat green fly right out of Grandfather Frog 's mouth just as his lips came together with a smack .
Now they were safely tucked in bed behind the Purple Hills , and so they missed the midnight feast at the foot of the Lone Pine .
But Reddy Fox was there .
You can always count on Reddy Fox to be about when mischief or good times are afoot , especially after Mr. Sun has pulled his nightcap on .
Jimmy Skunk was there .
If there is any mischief Reddy Fox does not think of Jimmy Skunk will be sure to discover it .
Billy Mink was there .
Yes indeed , Billy Mink was there !
Billy Mink is another mischief maker .
When Reddy Fox and Jimmy Skunk are playing pranks or in trouble of any kind you are certain to find Billy Mink close by .
That is , you are certain to find him if you look sharp enough .
But Billy Mink is so slim , he moves so quickly , and his wits are so sharp , that he is not seen half so often as the others .
With Billy Mink came his cousin , Shadow the Weasel , who is sly and cruel .
No one likes Shadow the Weasel .
Little Joe Otter and Jerry Muskrat came .
They were late , for the legs of Little Joe Otter are so short that he is a slow traveler on land , while Jerry Muskrat feels much more at home in the water than on the dry ground .
Of course Peter Rabbit was there .
Without him no party on the Green Meadows would be complete , and Peter likes to be abroad at night even better than by day .
With Peter came his cousin , Jumper the Hare , who had come down from the Pine Forest for a visit .
Boomer the Nighthawk and Hooty the Owl completed the party , though Hooty had not been invited and no one knew that he was there .
Each was to contribute something to the feast -- the thing that he liked best .
Such an array as Mother Moon looked down upon !
Reddy Fox had brought a plump , tender chicken , stolen from Farmer Brown 's dooryard .
Very quietly , like a thin , brown shadow , Billy Mink had slipped up to the duck pond and -- alas !
Now Mother Quack had one less in her pretty little flock than when as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun went to bed behind the Purple Hills , she had counted her babies as they tucked their heads under their wings .
Little Joe Otter had been fishing and he brought a great fat brother of the lamented Tommy Trout , who did n't mind .
Jerry Muskrat brought up from the mud of the river bottom some fine fresh water clams , of which he is very fond .
Jimmy Skunk stole three big eggs from the nest of old Gray Goose .
Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare rolled up a great , tender , fresh cabbage .
Boomer the Nighthawk said that he was very sorry , but he was on a diet of insects , which he must swallow one at a time , so to save trouble he had swallowed them as he caught them .
