Then how will you get anything to eat ? ''
Reddy Fox wiped his eyes on his coat sleeve and hobbled along as best he could .
Granny Fox would run a little way ahead to see that the way was safe and then come back for Reddy .
Poor Reddy .
He did his best not to complain , but it was such hard work .
And somehow Reddy Fox did n't believe that it was at all necessary .
He had been terribly frightened when he had disobeyed Granny Fox that afternoon and put his head out the door , only to look right into the freckled face of Farmer Brown 's boy .
He had ducked back out of sight again too quickly for Farmer Brown 's boy to shoot , and now he could n't see why old Granny Fox wanted to move that very night .
`` She 's getting old .
She 's getting old and timid and fussy , '' muttered Reddy Fox , as he hobbled along behind her .
It seemed to Reddy as if they had walked miles and miles .
He really thought that they had been walking nearly all night when old Granny Fox stopped in front of the worst-looking old fox house Reddy had ever seen .
`` Here we are ! ''
said she .
`` What !
Are we going to live in that thing ? ''
cried Reddy .
`` It is n't fit for any respectable fox to put his nose into . ''
`` It is where I was born ! ''
snapped old Granny Fox .
`` If you want to keep out of harm 's way , do n't go to putting on airs now .
`` Who scorns the simple things of life And tilts his nose at all he sees , Is almost sure to feel the knife Of want cut through his pleasant ease .
`` Now do n't let me hear another word from you , but get inside at once ! ''
Reddy Fox did n't quite understand all Granny Fox said , but he knew when she was to be obeyed , and so he crawled gingerly through the broken-down doorway .
XXV .
Peter Rabbit Makes a Discovery Hardly had jolly , round , red Mr. Sun thrown off his nightcap and come out from his home behind the Purple Hills for his daily climb up in the blue , blue sky , when Farmer Brown 's boy started down the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest .
Peter Rabbit , who had been out all night and was just then on his way home , saw him .
Peter stopped and sat up to rub his eyes and look again .
He was n't quite sure that he had seen aright the first time .
But he had .
There was Farmer Brown 's boy , sure enough , and at his heels trotted Bowser the Hound .
Peter Rabbit rubbed his eyes once more and wrinkled up his eyebrows .
Farmer Brown 's boy certainly had a gun over one shoulder and a spade over the other .
Where could he be going down the Lone Little Path with a spade ?
Farmer Brown 's garden certainly was not in that direction .
Peter watched him out of sight and then he hurried down to the Green Meadows to tell Johnny Chuck what he had seen .
My , how Peter 's long legs did fly !
He was so excited that he had forgotten how sleepy he had felt a few minutes before .
Halfway down to Johnny Chuck 's house , Peter Rabbit almost ran plump into Bobby Coon and Jimmy Skunk , who had been quarreling and were calling each other names .
They stopped when they saw Peter Rabbit .
`` Peter Rabbit runs away From his shadder , so they say .
Peter , Peter , what a sight !
Tell us why this sudden fright , '' shouted Bobby Coon .
Peter Rabbit stopped short .
Indeed , he stopped so short that he almost turned a somersault .
`` Say , '' he panted , `` I 've just seen Farmer Brown 's boy . ''
`` You do n't say so ! ''
said Jimmy Skunk , pretending to be very much surprised .
`` You do n't say so !
Why , now I think of it , I believe I 've seen Farmer Brown 's boy a few times myself . ''
Peter Rabbit made a good-natured face at Jimmy Skunk , and then he told all about how he had seen Farmer Brown 's boy with gun and spade and Bowser the Hound going down the Lone Little Path .
`` You know there is n't any garden down that way , '' he concluded .
Bobby Coon 's face wore a sober look .
Yes , Sir , all the fun was gone from Bobby Coon 's face .
`` What 's the matter ? ''
asked Jimmy Skunk .
`` I was just thinking that Reddy Fox lives over in that direction and he is so stiff that he can not run , '' replied Bobby Coon .
Jimmy Skunk hitched up his trousers and started toward the Lone Little Path .
`` Come on ! ''
said he .
`` Let 's follow him and see what he is about . ''
Bobby Coon followed at once , but Peter Rabbit said he would hurry over and get Johnny Chuck and then join the others .
All this time Farmer Brown 's boy had been hurrying down the Lone Little Path to the home old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox had moved out of the night before .
Of course , he did n't know that they had moved .
He put down his gun , and by the time Jimmy Skunk and Bobby Coon and Peter Rabbit and Johnny Chuck reached a place where they could peep out and see what was going on , he had dug a great hole .
`` Oh ! ''
cried Peter Rabbit , `` he 's digging into the house of Reddy Fox , and he 'll catch poor Reddy ! ''
XXVI .
Farmer Brown 's Boy Works for Nothing The grass around the doorstep of the house where Reddy Fox had always lived was all wet with dew when Farmer Brown 's boy laid his gun down , took off his coat , rolled up his shirt sleeves , and picked up his spade .
It was cool and beautiful there on the edge of the Green Meadows .
Jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had just begun his long climb up in the blue , blue sky .
Mr. Redwing was singing for joy over in the bulrushes on the edge of the Smiling Pool .
Yes , it was very beautiful , very beautiful indeed .
It did n't seem as if harm could come to anyone on such a beautiful morning .
But there was Farmer Brown 's boy .
He had crawled on his hands and knees without making a sound to get near enough to the home of Reddy Fox to shoot if Reddy was outside .
But there was no sign of Reddy , so Farmer Brown 's boy had hopped up , and now he was whistling as he began to dig .
His freckled face looked good-natured .
It did n't seem as if he could mean harm to anyone .
But there lay the gun , and he was working as if he meant to get to the very bottom of Reddy Fox 's home !
Deeper and deeper grew the hole , and bigger and bigger grew the pile of sand which he threw out .
He did n't know that anyone was watching him , except Bowser the Hound .
He did n't see Johnny Chuck peeping from behind a tall bunch of meadow grass , or Peter Rabbit peeping from behind a tree on the edge of the Green Forest , or Bobby Coon looking from a safe hiding place in the top of that same tree .
He did n't see Jimmy Skunk or Unc ' Billy Possum or Happy Jack Squirrel or Digger the Badger .
He did n't see one of them , but they saw him .
They saw every shovelful of sand that he threw , and their hearts went pit-a-pat as they watched , for each one felt sure that something dreadful was going to happen to Reddy Fox .
Only Ol' Mistah Buzzard knew better .
From way up high in the blue , blue sky he could look down and see many things .
He could see all the little meadow and forest people who were watching Farmer Brown 's boy .
The harder Farmer Brown 's boy worked , the more Ol' Mistah Buzzard chuckled to himself .
What was he laughing at ?
Why , he could see the sharp face of old Granny Fox , peeping out from behind an old fence corner , and she was grinning .
So Ol' Mistah Buzzard knew Reddy Fox was safe .
But the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows did n't know that old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox had moved , and their faces grew longer and longer as they watched Farmer Brown 's boy go deeper and deeper into the ground .
`` Reddy Fox has worried me almost to death and would eat me if he could catch me , but somehow things would n't be quite the same without him around .
Oh dear , I do n't want him killed , '' moaned Peter Rabbit .
`` Perhaps he is n't home , '' said Jimmy Skunk .
`` Of course he 's home ; he 's so stiff and sore he can hardly walk at all and has to stay home , '' replied Johnny Chuck .
`` Hello , what 's the matter now ? ''
Everybody looked .
Farmer Brown 's boy had climbed out of the hole .
He looked tired and cross .
He rested for a few minutes , and as he rested , he scowled .
Then he began to shovel the sand back into the hole .
He had reached the bottom and found no one there .
`` Hurrah ! ''
shouted Peter Rabbit and struck his heels together as he jumped up in the air .
And the others were just as glad as Peter Rabbit .
Johnny Chuck was especially glad , for , you see , Farmer Brown 's boy had once found Johnny 's snug home , and Johnny had had to move as suddenly as did Granny and Reddy Fox .
Johnny knew just how Reddy must feel , for he had had many narrow escapes in his short life .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___The_Adventures_of_Unc'_Billy_Possum.txt.out
I UNC ' BILLY POSSUM IS CAUGHT The Green Meadows were thrown into great excitement late one afternoon , just as the black shadows came creeping down from the Purple Hills .
Reddy Fox brought the news , and when he told it he grinned as if he enjoyed it and was glad of it .
`` Old Billy Possum is dead .
I know it because I saw Farmer Brown 's boy carrying him home by the tail , '' said Reddy .
`` So you see he was n't so smart as you thought he was , '' he added maliciously .
No one really believed Reddy Fox , for every one knows that he seldom tells the truth , but when Jimmy Skunk came mournfully down the Crooked Little Path and said that it was true , they had to believe it .
Then everybody began to talk about Unc ' Billy and say nice things about him and tell how much they had enjoyed having him live in the Green Forest since he came up from `` Ol' Virginny . ''
That is , everybody but Reddy Fox said so .
Reddy said that it served Unc ' Billy right , because he was of no account , anyway .
Then everybody began to hoot and hiss at Reddy until he was glad enough to slink away .
And while they were all saying such nice things about him , Unc ' Billy Possum was having an exciting adventure .
For once he had been too bold .
He had gone up to Farmer Brown 's hen-house before dark .
Jimmy Skunk had tried to stop him , but he had heeded Jimmy Skunk not at all .
He had said that he was hungry and wanted an egg , and he could n't wait till dark to get it .
So off he had started , for Unc ' Billy Possum is very headstrong and obstinate .
He had reached the hen-house and slipped inside without being seen .
The nests were full of eggs , and soon Unc ' Billy was enjoying his feast so that he forgot to keep watch .
Suddenly the door opened , and in stepped Farmer Brown 's boy to get some eggs for supper .
There was no time to run .
Unc ' Billy just dropped right down in his tracks as if he were dead .
When Farmer Brown 's boy saw him , he did n't know what to make of him , for he had never seen Unc ' Billy before .
`` Well , well , I wonder what happened to this fellow , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy , turning Unc ' Billy over with the toe of one foot .
`` He certainly is dead enough , whatever killed him .
I wonder what he was doing in here . ''
Then he saw some egg on Unc ' Billy 's lips .
`` Ho !
ho ! ''
shouted Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` So you are the thief who has been getting my eggs ! ''
And picking up Unc ' Billy by the tail , he started with him for the house .
As they passed the woodpile , he tossed Unc ' Billy on the chopping-block while he gathered an armful of kindlings to take to the house .
When he turned to pick up Unc ' Billy again , Unc ' Billy was n't there .
Farmer Brown 's boy dropped his wood and hunted everywhere , but not a trace of Unc ' Billy could he find .
II REDDY FOX THINKS HE SEES A GHOST Reddy Fox came down the Lone Little Path through the Green Forest on his way to the Green Meadows .
He had brushed his red coat until it shone .
His white waistcoat was spotless , and he carried his big tail high in the air , that it might not become soiled .
Reddy was feeling as fine as he looked .
He would have liked to sing , but every time he tried his voice cracked , and he was afraid that some one would hear him and laugh at him .
If there is one thing that Reddy Fox dislikes more than another , it is being laughed at .
Reddy chuckled at his thoughts , and what do you think he was thinking about ?
Why , about how he had seen Farmer Brown 's boy carrying off Unc ' Billy Possum by the tail the afternoon before .
He knew how Farmer Brown 's boy had caught Unc ' Billy in the hen-house , and with his own eyes he had seen Unc ' Billy carried off .
Of course Unc ' Billy was dead .
There could be no doubt about it .
And Reddy was glad of it .
Yes , Sir , Reddy was glad of it .
Unc ' Billy Possum had made altogether too many friends in the Green Forest and on the Green Meadows , and he had made Reddy the laughing-stock of them all by the way he had dared Reddy to meet Bowser the Hound , and actually had waited for Bowser while Reddy ran away .
Reddy remembered that Unc ' Billy 's hollow tree was not far away .
He would go over that way , just to have another look at it .
So over he went .
There stood the old hollow tree , and half way up was the door out of which Unc ' Billy used to look down on him and grin .
It was Reddy 's turn to grin now .
Presently he sat down with his back against the foot of the tree , crossed his legs , looked this way and that way to make sure that no one was about , and then in a dreadfully cracked voice he began to sing : `` Ol' Bill Possum , he 's gone before !
Ol' Bill Possum , he is no more !
Bill was a scamp , Sir ; Bill was a thief !
Bill stole an egg , Sir ; Bill came to grief .
Ol' Bill Possum , it served him right ; And he is no more , for he died last night . ''
`` Very good , Sah , very good .
Ah cert ` nly am obliged to yo'all for yo ' serenade , '' said a voice that seemed to come out of the tree at Reddy 's back .
Reddy Fox sprang up as if some one had stuck a pin into him .
Every hair stood on end , as he looked up at Unc ' Billy 's doorway .
Then his teeth began to chatter with fright .
Looking out of Unc ' Billy 's doorway and grinning down at him was something that looked for all the world like Unc ' Billy himself .
`` It must be his ghost ! ''
said Reddy , and tucking his tail between his legs , he started up the Crooked Little Path as fast as his legs could take him .
Reddy never once looked back .
If he had , he might have seen Unc ' Billy Possum climb down from the hollow tree and shake hands with Jimmy Skunk , who had just come along .
`` How did Ah do it ?
Why , Ah just pretended Ah was daid , when Farmer Brown 's boy caught me , '' explained Unc ' Billy .
`` Of course he ' would n't kill a daid Possum .
So when he tossed me down on the chopping-block and turned his back , Ah just naturally came to life again , and here Ah am . ''
Unc ' Billy Possum grinned broader than ever , and Jimmy Skunk grinned , too .
III UNC ' BILLY POSSUM SENDS FOR HIS FAMILY The news that Unc ' Billy Possum was n't dead at all but was back in his hollow tree in the Green Forest soon spread through all the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows .
Everybody hastened to pay their respects , that is everybody but Reddy Fox .
Unc ' Billy and his partner , Jimmy Skunk , told every one who called how Reddy Fox had thought that Unc ' Billy was a ghost and had been frightened almost to death , so that he ran away as fast as his legs could take him .
Unc ' Billy grinned as he told how Reddy had sat under the hollow tree and tried to sing because he was so glad that Unc ' Billy was dead , and all the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows laughed until their sides ached when in a funny , cracked voice Unc ' Billy sang the song for them .
Thereafter whenever one of them caught sight of Reddy Fox at a safe distance , he would shout : `` Ol' Bill Possum , he 's gone before !
Ol' Bill Possum , he is no more ! ''
It got so that Reddy never came down on the Green Meadows in the daytime , and at night he avoided meeting any one if possible , even his old friend , Bobby Coon .
And of course Reddy Fox hated Unc ' Billy Possum more than ever .
But Unc ' Billy did n't care , not he !
He knew that all the rest of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows thought him the smartest of them all , because of the way in which he had fooled Bowser the Hound and Farmer Brown 's boy .
He liked his neighbors , he liked the Green Forest , and so he made up his mind that this was the place for him to stay .
But in spite of all his friends , Unc ' Billy was lonesome .
The longer he stayed , the more lonesome he grew , Unc ' Billy wanted his family , whom he had left way down in `` Ol' Virginny . ''
Finally he told Jimmy Skunk all about it , and for once Unc ' Billy had forgotten how to grin .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy had forgotten how to grin .
Instead he just wept , wept great big tears of lonesomeness .
`` Ah reckon Ah 'll have to go back to Ol' Virginny , Ah cert ` nly do , '' said Unc ' Billy Possum .
Jimmy Skunk grew very thoughtful .
Since he and Unc ' Billy Possum had been in partnership , Jimmy had had more eggs to eat than ever before in his whole life .
Now Unc ' Billy was talking about going away .
Jimmy thought very hard .
Then he had a bright idea .
`` Why not send for your family to come here and live in the Green Forest , Uncle Billy ? ''
he asked .
Unc ' Billy stopped crying .
His two little eyes looked up sharply .
`` How do yo'all reckon Ah can send word ? ''
he asked .
Jimmy scratched his head .
`` There 's Mr. Skimmer the Swallow ; he 's fixing to go South .
Perhaps he 'll take the message to your family , '' said he .
`` The very thing ! ''
cried Unc ' Billy Possum , wiping his eyes .
`` Ah thanks yo ' , Sah .
Ah does , indeed .
Ah 'll see Mistah Skimmer at once . ''
And without another word Unc ' Billy Possum started down the Crooked Little Path for the Green Meadows to look for Skimmer the Swallow .
IV BOBBY COON ENTERS THE WRONG HOUSE After Unc ' Billy Possum had arranged with Skimmer the Swallow , who was going South , to take a message to his family in `` Ol' Virginny , '' telling them to come and join him in the Green Forest , he at once began to make preparations to receive them .
Unc ' Billy is n't any too fond of work .
He had a lot rather that some one else should do the work for him , and he is smart enough to fix it so that usually some one else does .
But getting ready to receive his family was different .
No one else could arrange things to suit him .
This was Unc ' Billy 's own job , and he tended right to it every minute of the day .
First of all he had to clean house .
He had been keeping bachelor 's hall so long in the big hollow tree that things were not very tidy .
So Unc ' Billy cleaned house , and while he worked he whistled and sang .
Peter Rabbit , passing that way , overheard Unc ' Billy singing : `` Mah ol' woman is away down Souf -- Come along !
Come along !
Ai n't nothin ' sharper than the tongue in her mouf -- Come along !
Come along !
She once was pretty , but she ai n't no mo ' , But she cooks mah meals an ' she sweeps mah flo ' ; She darns mah stockings an ' she mends mah coat , An ' she knows jes ' how mah chillun fer to tote -- Come along !
Come along !
`` Mah pickaninnies am a-headin ' dis way -- Come along !
Come along !
Daddy am a-watchin ' fo ' 'em day by day -- Come along !
Come along !
Mah ol' haid aches when Ah thinks ob de noise De 's boun ' to be wid dem gals an ' boys , But Ah doan care if it busts in two If de good Lord brings dem chillun troo -- Come along !
Come along ! ''
Every little while Unc ' Billy Possum would sit down to rest , for he was n't used to so much real work .
But finally he got his house clean and made as comfortable as possible , and about that time be began to think how good an egg would taste .
The more he thought about it , the more he wanted that egg .
`` It 's no use talking , Ah just naturally has to have that egg , '' said Unc ' Billy to himself , and off he started for Farmer Brown 's .
Now Unc ' Billy was hardly out of sight when along came Bobby Coon .
Bobby Coon was absent-minded , or else he was so sleepy that he did n't know what he was doing , for Bobby Coon had been out all night .
Anyway , when he reached Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree , he began to climb up it just as if it were his own .
He looked in at Unc ' Billy 's door .
There was the most comfortable bed that he had seen for a long time .
He looked this way and he looked that way .
Nobody was in sight .
Then he looked in at Unc ' Billy 's door once more .
That bed certainly did look soft and comfortable .
Bobby Coon chuckled to himself .
`` I believe I 'll just see if that bed is as comfortable as it looks , '' said he .
And two minutes later Bobby Coon was curled up fast asleep in Unc ' Billy Possum 's bed .
V BOBBY COON IS WAKED UP `` Dey 's a-coming , dey 's a-coming , dey 's a-coming mighty soon .
But dey ca n't come soon enuff fo ' me !
Dey 's a-coming , dey 's a-coming at de turning ob de moon , Whar Ah waits in mah ol' holler tree ! ''
Unc ' Billy Possum was singing to himself , as he slowly trudged home from Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
He was feeling very good , very good indeed , was Unc ' Billy Possum .
No one appreciates strictly fresh eggs more than Unc ' Billy does , and he had found more than he could eat waiting for him in Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
Now his stomach was full , his house had been cleaned and put to rights , ready for his family when they should arrive from `` Ol' Virginny , '' and he had nothing to do but wait for them .
So he trudged along and sang in a funny , cracked voice .
Presently he came to his big hollow tree and started to climb up to the door of his house .
Half way up he broke off short in the middle of his song and sat down on a convenient branch .
He put one ear against the trunk of the tree and listened .
Then he put the other ear against the tree and listened .
There certainly was a funny noise , and it seemed to come from right inside his hollow tree .
Unc ' Billy turned and looked up at his doorway , scratching his head thoughtfully with one hand .
`` Mah goodness ! ''
said Unc ' Billy , `` it cert ` nly sounds like there was somebody in mah house ! ''
Then very softly Unc ' Billy crept up to his doorway and peeped in .
It was dark inside , so that Unc ' Billy could see little else than that his nice , freshly made , comfortable bed was all mussed up .
But if he could n't see , he could hear .
Oh , yes , indeed , Unc ' Billy could hear perfectly well , and what he heard was a snore !
There was some one in Unc ' Billy 's house , and more than that , they were fast asleep in Unc ' Billy 's bed .
`` Mah goodness !
Mah goodness ! ''
exclaimed Unc ' Billy Possum , and his two sharp little eyes began to snap .
Then he stuck his head in at the door and shouted : `` Hi , yo'all !
What yo ' doing in mah house ? ''
The only answer was another snore .
Unc ' Billy waited a minute .
Then he put his head in once more .
`` Yo ' better come out of mah house , Mr. Who-ever-yo ' - are , before Ah comes in and puts yo ' out ! ''
shouted Unc ' Billy .
The only answer was a snore louder than before .
Then Unc ' Billy quite lost his temper .
Some one who had no business there was in his house !
He did n't know who it was , and he did n't care .
They were going to come out or he would know why not .
Unc ' Billy gritted his teeth and in he went .
My !
my !
my !
such a rumpus as there was right away in that hollow tree !
Peter Rabbit happened to be coming along that way and heard it .
Peter stopped and gazed at the hollow tree with eyes and mouth wide open .
Such a snarling and growling !
Then out of the doorway began to fly leaves and moss .
They were part of Unc ' Billy 's bed .
Then Peter saw a big ringed tail hanging out of the doorway .
Peter recognized it right away .
No one possessed a tail like that but Bobby Coon .
In a minute Bobby followed his tail , hastily backing down the tree .
Then Unc ' Billy 's sharp little old face appeared at the doorway .
Unc ' Billy looked down at Peter Rabbit and grinned .
`` Ah guess Mistah Coon done make a mistake when he went to bed in mah house , '' said he .
And Bobby Coon sheepishly admitted that he did .
VI SAMMY JAY LEARNS PETER RABBIT 'S SECRET `` I 'm Mr. Jaybird , tee-hee-hee !
I 'm Mr. Jaybird ; you watch me !
You 've got to rise ` fore break of day If you want to fool old Mr. Jay . ''
Over and over Sammy Jay hummed this , as he brushed his handsome blue and white coat .
Then he laughed as he remarked to no one in particular , for no one was near enough to hear : `` Peter Rabbit 's got a secret .
When Peter goes about whispering , it 's a sure sign that he 's got a secret .
He thinks that he can keep it from me , but he ca n't .
Oh , my , no !
I never knew of a secret that could be kept by more than two people , and already I 've seen Peter whisper to five .
I 'll just see what Reddy Fox knows about it . ''
With a flirt of his tail Sammy Jay started for the Green Meadows , where Reddy Fox was busy hunting for his breakfast .
`` It 's a fine morning , Reddy Fox , '' said Sammy Jay .
`` It would be finer , if I could fill my stomach faster , '' replied Reddy .
`` That 's a pretty good secret of Peter Rabbit 's , is n't it ? ''
asked Sammy , pretending to look very wise .
Reddy pricked up his sharp little ears .
`` What secret ? ''
he demanded .
`` If you do n't know , I 'm not going to tell , '' retorted Sammy Jay , just as if he knew all about it , and off he flew to hunt up his cousin , Blacky the Crow .
Blacky knew nothing about Peter Rabbit 's secret , nor did Shadow the Weasel , whom he met by the way .
But Sammy Jay was not in the least bit discouraged .
`` I 'll try Johnny Chuck ; he 'll know , '' said Sammy to himself .
He found Johnny sitting on his doorstep , watching the world go by .
`` Good morning , Johnny Chuck , '' said Sammy , with a low bow .
`` Good morning , '' replied Johnny Chuck , who always is polite .
`` Is n't that a fine secret of Peter Rabbit 's ? ''
exclaimed Sammy , just as if he knew all about it .
Johnny Chuck raised his eyebrows and put on the most surprised look .
`` Do tell me what it is ! ''
he begged .
`` Oh , if you do n't know , I wo n't tell , for that would n't be fair , '' replied Sammy , and tried to look very honest and innocent , and then he flew over to the Green Forest .
And as he flew , he said to himself : `` Johnny Chuck ca n't fool me ; he does know Peter Rabbit 's secret . ''
Over in the Green Forest he found Drummer the Woodpecker making a great racket on the hollow limb of an old chestnut .
Sammy sat down near by and listened .
`` My , that 's fine !
I wish I could do that .
You must be practising , '' said Sammy at the end of a long rat-a-tat-tat .
Drummer the Woodpecker felt very much flattered .
`` I am , '' said he .
`` I 'm practising for Peter Rabbit 's party . ''
`` I thought so , '' replied Sammy Jay .
Of course he had n't thought anything of the kind .
`` Wo n't Unc ' Billy Possum be surprised ? ''
remarked Drummer the Woodpecker , as he sat down to rest .
`` He surely will , '' replied Sammy Jay , and then he flattered and flattered Drummer the Woodpecker until finally Drummer told all about Peter 's plan for a surprise party for Unc ' Billy Possum .
By and by , as he flew home , Sammy Jay chuckled and said : `` You 've got to rise ` fore break of day If you want to fool old Mr. Jay . ''
VII FOUR LITTLE SCAMPS PLAN MISCHIEF `` Some folks think they 're mighty smart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Like the knave who stole the tart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Some folks will waken up some day -- And find they ca n't fool Mr. Jay ! ''
Sammy Jay was mightily pleased with himself .
He had found out all about Peter Rabbit 's plan to give Unc ' Billy Possum a surprise party when his family came up from `` Ol' Virginny . ''
He had found out that all the little forest and meadow people but himself and his cousin , Blacky the Crow , and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel had been invited , and that each was to bring something good to eat .
Sammy Jay smacked his lips as he thought of this .
Then he looked up at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and winked .
Now on all the Green Meadows and in all the Green Forest , there live no greater scamps than Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel .
The worst of it is , they are not honest .
They steal whenever they get a chance , and always they try to get others into trouble .
That was why Peter Rabbit had left them out , when he planned his surprise party for Unc ' Billy Possum .
Sammy Jay called the three others together under the Lone Pine and told them all about Peter Rabbit 's plan and how they had been left out .
Of course Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel were angry , very angry indeed , for no one likes to be left out of a good time .
The more Sammy Jay told them , the angrier they grew ; and the angrier they grew , the more Sammy Jay chuckled , way down inside .
Sammy had a plan , and the angrier the others grew , the more likely were they to help him .
`` You wait till I catch Peter Rabbit ! ''
said Reddy Fox and showed all his teeth .
He quite forgot that , despite all his smartness , he never yet had caught Peter Rabbit .
Blacky the Crow scratched his head thoughtfully .
`` We can spoil his surprise by telling Unc ' Billy Possum all about it beforehand , '' said he .
Sammy Jay winked at each of the others .
He cleared his throat and looked all around , to make sure that no one else was near .
Then he leaned forward and whispered : `` Let 's invite ourselves to the party . ''
`` What do you mean ? ''
exclaimed the others , all together .
`` Just what I say , '' replied Sammy .
`` We 'll be the real surprise .
Before the party begins , you will hide close to where it is to be .
When everybody has got there and brought all the good things to eat , I 'll come flying along and scream : ` Here comes Bowser the Hound ! '
Of course every one will run away , and we 'll have all the good things to eat . ''
`` Haw !
haw !
haw !
The very thing !
We 'll all be there , '' cried Blacky the Crow .
The four little scamps shook hands and separated .
As they went across the Green Meadows , Sammy Jay 's voice floated back to the Lone Pine .
He was singing , although he has a very poor voice for singing , and this was his song : -LSB- Illustration : `` What do you mean ? ''
exclaimed the others all together . -RSB-
`` Some folks think they 're mighty smart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Like the knave who stole the tart -- Oh , la me !
Oh , la me !
Some folks will waken up some day -- And find they ca n't fool Mr. Jay ! ''
`` Is that so ?
Really now , I want to know , '' said old Mr. Toad , crawling from under the very piece of bark on which Sammy Jay had sat when he told his plan .
Then old Mr. Toad winked slowly and solemnly at jolly , round , red Mr. Sun and started off to find Peter Rabbit .
VIII PETER RABBIT SENDS OUT WORD It was a beautiful morning .
Everybody said so , and what everybody says is usually so .
Peter Rabbit wore the broadest kind of a smile .
He hopped and skipped all the way down the Lone Little Path on to the Green Meadows and was waiting there when Old Mother West Wind came down from the Purple Hills and , turning her big bag upside down , tumbled out all her children , the Merry Little Breezes , to play .
Peter stopped them before they had a chance to run away .
He whispered to each , and each in turn started to dance across the Green Meadows to carry the news that this was the day of Peter Rabbit 's surprise party for Unc ' Billy Possum , whose family would arrive that very morning from way down in `` Ol' Virginny . ''
Sammy Jay had risen very early that morning .
Almost at once his sharp eyes had seen Peter Rabbit sending out the Merry Little Breezes .
Sammy 's wits are as sharp as his eyes , and you know it is very hard to really fool sharp wits .
Right away Sammy had guessed what the Merry Little Breezes were hurrying so for , but he sat and waited and listened .
Pretty soon he heard Drummer the Woodpecker start a long rat-a-tat-tat over by Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree .
Then Sammy was sure that this was the day of Peter Rabbit 's party .
Sammy grinned as he hurried off to find Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel .
Reddy was not yet out of bed , but when he heard Sammy Jay at his door , he tumbled out in a hurry .
He did n't stop to get any breakfast , because he had planned to get all he could eat at the party .
So he hurried over to where the party was to be .
Very cautiously he crept up , and when he was quite sure that no one was about , he crawled into a hollow log which was open at one end .
There he stretched himself out and made himself as comfortable as he could .
Pretty soon Shadow the Weasel joined Reddy Fox in the hollow log , and they whispered and chuckled while they waited .
They knew that Blacky the Crow was safely hidden in the top of a tall pine , where he could see all that went on , and that Sammy Jay was flying about over the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , pretending that he was attending wholly to his own business , but really watching all the preparations for Peter Rabbit 's party .
At the foot of a tree , in the top of which Prickly Porky the Porcupine was eating his breakfast , sat old Mr. Toad , nodding sleepily .
Sammy Jay saw him there but , smart as Sammy is , he did n't once suspect innocent-looking old Mr. Toad .
You see , he did n't know that old Mr. Toad had overheard all of his plans .
IX MR. TOAD AND PRICKLY PORKY PUT THEIR HEADS TOGETHER Slowly Prickly Porky the Porcupine climbed down from the top of the tall poplar tree where he had been getting his breakfast of tender young bark .
He grunted as he worked his way down , for he had with him a bundle of bark to take over to Peter Rabbit 's surprise party .
When he reached the ground , Prickly Porky shook himself until he rattled the thousand little spears hidden in his long coat .
`` Tee-hee-hee ! ''
`` Who dares to laugh at me ? ''
demanded Pricky Porky , shaking himself until all the little spears rattled again , and some of them began to peep out of his long coat .
`` No one is laughing at you , '' replied a voice right behind him .
Prickly Porky turned around .
There sat old Mr. Toad .
His big mouth was stretched wide open , and he was laughing all to himself .
Something was tickling old Mr. Toad mightily .
Prickly Porky scowled , and a few more little spears peeped out of his long coat .
You know no one likes to be laughed at , and it certainly did look as if old Mr. Toad was laughing at him .
Mr. Toad stopped laughing and hopped a step nearer .
`` It 's a joke , '' said he , and slowly winked one eye .
`` I do n't see any joke , '' said Prickly Porky , and his voice was very fretful .
Mr. Toad hopped a step nearer .
`` Are you going to Peter Rabbit 's party ? ''
`` Of course I am .
What a foolish question , '' replied Prickly Porky .
`` To be sure , a very foolish question , a very foolish question , indeed , '' assented Mr. Toad .
`` Do you know that Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel , who have not been invited , are planning to break up the party and then gobble up all the good things to eat ? ''
he continued .
Prickly Porky laid down his bundle of tender young bark and stared at old Mr. Toad , `` How do you know ? ''
he demanded .
Old Mr. Toad chuckled deep down in his throat .
`` I was underneath a piece of bark on which Sammy Jay was sitting when the plan was made .
Of course he did n't know I was there , and of course I did n't tell him . ''
`` Of course not , '' interrupted Prickly Porky , beginning to grin .
`` Of course not , '' continued Mr. Toad , grinning , too .
Then he told Prickly Porky all about the plan he had overheard , how Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel and Blacky the Crow were to hide near Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree , and how Sammy Jay was to frighten away everybody else by pretending that Bowser the Hound was coming .
`` Have you told Peter Rabbit ? ''
asked Prickly Porky .
`` Not yet , but I 'm going to , by and by , '' replied old Mr. Toad .
`` But first , I want you to help me fool Sammy Jay and Blacky the Crow and Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel .
Will you ? ''
`` Of course I will if I can , but how can I ? ''
answered Prickly Porky promptly .
Old Mr. Toad hopped up , and stretching up on tiptoe , whispered in one of Prickly Porky 's ears .
Prickly Porky began to smile .
Then he began to chuckle .
Finally he laughed until he had to hold his sides .
`` Will you do it ? ''
asked Mr. Toad .
Prickly Porky reached for his bundle of tender young bark .
`` Of course I will , '' said he , still chuckling .
`` Come on , Mr. Toad , it 's time we were going . ''
X THE RUNAWAY CABBAGE Reddy Fox , hiding with Shadow the Weasel in a hollow log near Unc ' Billy Possum 's home , nudged Shadow with his elbow .
`` I hear some one coming , '' he whispered .
Shadow peeped out .
`` It 's old Mr. Toad and Prickly Porky , '' he whispered back .
Something that sounded very much like a growl sounded way down deep in the throat of Reddy Fox , for Reddy has no love for Prickly Porky .
`` And there comes Jimmy Skunk , with a big-goose egg under each arm ! ''
continued Shadow , smacking his lips .
Reddy Fox wriggled up where he could peep out , too .
`` My goodness !
What 's that coming down the Lone Little Path ? ''
whispered Reddy .
Shadow looked .
Then he began to laugh , and Reddy began to laugh , too .
But it was laughter that made no sound , for Reddy and Shadow did n't want any one to know that they were hiding there .
It was a funny sight they were peeping out at .
It certainly was a funny sight .
Down the Lone Little Path came Peter Rabbit and his cousin , Juniper the Hare , rolling a huge cabbage .
Right at the top of a little hill the cabbage got away from them .
Down it started , rolling and bounding along , with Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare frantically trying to catch it .
Just ahead was Johnny Chuck with a big bundle of sweet clover , which he was bringing to Peter Rabbit 's party .
He did n't see the big cabbage coming .
It knocked his feet from under him , and down he went with a thump , flat on his back .
Right on top of him fell Jumper the Hare , who was close behind the runaway cabbage and had no time to turn aside .
Over the two of them fell Peter Rabbit .
Such a mix-up !
And the big cabbage kept right on running away .
Jimmy Skunk , who never hurries , heard the noise behind him and turned to see what it all meant .
But he did n't have time to more than blink his eyes before the runaway cabbage hit him full in the stomach .
Down went Jimmy Skunk with a grunt .
One big egg flew over against a tree and broke .
Jimmy landed on the other , and this broke , too .
Such a sight as Jimmy Skunk was !
Egg dripped from every part of his handsome black and white coat .
It was in his eyes and all over his face and dripped from his whiskers .
Shadow the Weasel and Reddy Fox , hiding in the hollow log , laughed until the tears rolled down their cheeks , though down in the heart of Shadow was bitter disappointment , for he had planned to steal those very eggs .
Just a little way beyond Jimmy Skunk the runaway cabbage brought up with a thump against a stump on which sat Striped Chipmunk , with the pockets in his cheeks filled full of yellow corn .
The sudden bump of the big cabbage made Striped Chipmunk lose his balance , and off he tumbled , right down on to old Mr. Toad , who had just sat down behind the stump for a few minutes of rest .
It knocked all the wind out of Mr. Toad , and of course Striped Chipmunk spilled all his corn .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine heard the noise .
He looked up to see a strange thing bounding down the Lone Little Path .
Prickly Porky did n't wait to see what it was .
He did just what he always does when he thinks there may be danger ; he rolled himself up with his face hidden in his waistcoat , and when he did that , the thousand little spears hidden in his coat stood out until he looked like a giant chestnut burr .
The runaway cabbage bounced off the stump and hit Prickly Porky .
Then it stopped .
Where it had touched Prickly Porky , the sharp little spears had stuck into it , so that when Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare hurried up , there lay the runaway cabbage , looking for all the world like a great green pincushion .
XI REDDY FOX GOES HUNGRY Like a great green pincushion lay the runaway cabbage of Peter Rabbit and Jumper the Hare .
Every one thought it was the very best joke ever .
Jimmy Skunk had gone off to take a bath and get two more eggs for Peter Rabbit 's party .
Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel , peeping out from the hollow log where they were hiding , could see Jimmy on his way back with a big goose egg under each arm .
Shadow smacked his lips .
He meant to have those eggs himself .
Pretty soon all the little forest and meadow people whom Peter Rabbit had invited were gathered around the foot of Unc ' Billy Possum 's hollow tree , and each had brought something good to eat .
My , such a feast as was spread out there !
Now they were waiting for Unc ' Billy Possum , who had gone to meet his family , coming up from `` Ol' Virginny . ''
Over in the top of a tall pine tree Blacky the Crow was hiding and chuckling to himself as he watched .
Reddy Fox was getting impatient .
He was hungry .
He had had no breakfast , and as he lay hiding in the hollow log , he could peep out and see all the good things , and he could smell them , too .
It seemed as if his stomach would just give him no peace at all .
He wished that Sammy Jay would bring the false message that Bowser the Hound was coming , so as to frighten all the rest away .
`` I 'm nearly starved ! ''
whispered Reddy Fox .
`` I hope Sammy Jay will hurry up . ''
Just then they noticed that Peter Rabbit was very busy .
He hopped from guest to guest and whispered in the ear of each .
`` Now I wonder what Peter Rabbit is whispering about , '' said Reddy .
Suddenly the light at the end of the hollow log disappeared .
There was a queer rattling sound that sent shivers up and down Reddy 's backbone .
Prickly Porky the Porcupine had sat down with his back against the end of the hollow log , and the queer rattling sound was made by the thousand little spears in his long coat .
Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel were in a prison .
You see there was no other opening to the hollow log .
`` Never mind , '' whispered Shadow the Weasel , `` he 'll go away when Sammy Jay shouts that Bowser the Hound is coming . ''
Blacky the Crow , hidden in the top of the tall pine , was also wondering what Peter was whispering .
His sharp eyes watched Peter , and every time that Peter whispered in the ear of one of the little meadow or forest people , they would laugh .
Now , Sammy Jay knew nothing about all this .
By and by , when he thought that every one was there , Sammy came flying through the Green Forest , just as if he knew nothing about Peter Rabbit 's party .
Now , Sammy , with all his faults , is one of the best watchmen in the Green Forest .
If there is any danger which his sharp eyes discover , he always screams at the top of his lungs .
So , though he steals and plays tricks and makes life very uncomfortable for the others , they always stop to listen when Sammy sounds a warning .
Because Sammy knew this he felt sure of breaking up this party .
As soon as he came in sight of all the little meadow and forest people , he began to shriek at the top of his lungs .
`` Run !
run !
run !
Here comes Bowser the Hound , '' he shouted .
No one moved , and this puzzled Sammy so that he hardly knew what to do , but he kept right on shrieking , just as if Bowser was right close at hand .
Still no one moved .
Sammy stopped on a tall pine and pretended to be terribly excited .
`` You had better run before Bowser gets here , '' he shouted .
What do you think happened then ?
Why , everybody set up a great shout .
`` Ha !
ha !
ha ! ''
laughed Peter Rabbit .
`` Ho !
ho !
ho ! ''
shouted Johnny Chuck .
`` Hee !
hee !
hee ! ''
giggled Danny Meadow Mouse .
`` What time will Bowser get here ? ''
asked Bobby Coon , gravely .
`` Tell Bowser that we are all waiting for him , '' added Jimmy Skunk .
`` Is Bowser quite out of breath ? ''
inquired Jerry Muskrat .
`` I would like nothing better than to run a race with Bowser the Hound , '' said Jumper the Hare , sitting up very straight .
Sammy Jay did n't know what to do or what to say .
He was just the most disgusted looking Jay that ever flew through the Green Forest , and all the time he wondered and wondered and wondered how it could be that Peter Rabbit and his friends knew that Bowser the Hound was not in the Green Forest at all .
You see , old Mr. Toad had told Peter all about Sammy 's plan , and this is what Peter had been whispering to the others .
XII PRICKLY PORKY MAKES HIMSELF AT HOME Peter Rabbit 's party promised to be a great success .
When old Mr. Toad , who had overheard Sammy Jay 's plan , had told Peter Rabbit all about it , he had also told Peter that Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel were hiding in an old hollow log close by .
Peter had whispered the news in the ear of each of the little forest and meadow people and had told them how Prickly Porky was even then sitting with his back against the opening in the hollow log .
Every one had thought this the best joke ever , for , of course , they all knew that Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel could not get out past the thousand little spears hidden in the long coat of Prickly Porky .
Prickly Porky settled himself very comfortably and began to tell stories about his home , way up in the North Woods .
Every few minutes he would rattle the thousand little spears in his coat , and though no one could see Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel inside the hollow log , every one could guess just how little shivers were running up and down the backbones of the two little scamps held prisoners there .
Prickly Porky told how in the cold , cold winter the snow piled up and piled up in his far northern home , until nearly all the forest folk who lived there had to make a long journey into the South , or else went into warm , snug hollows in the trees or caves in the rocks and slept the long winter through , just as Johnny Chuck does .
He told how the Indians came through the great forest on big webbed shoes , that kept them from sinking into the snow , and hunted for Lightfoot the Deer , and how they never bothered Prickly Porky , but always treated him with the greatest respect .
He told so many , many interesting things about the great North Woods , that all the little meadow people and forest folk gathered close around to listen , but every few minutes , while he was talking , he would shake his thousand little spears , and then every one would smile .
Inside the hollow log Reddy Fox was getting stiff and sore , because , you know , he did n't have room enough to even turn over .
Worse still , he was so hungry that he could cry .
You see , he had crept in there very early in the morning without any breakfast , because he had planned that when Sammy Jay should break up Peter Rabbit 's party , he would steal all the good things he wanted .
Now , he could smell them , and hear the others talking about the feast they were going to have , and he knew that not so much as a tiny , tiny crumb would be left for him , when Prickly Porky should choose to let him out .
Shadow the Weasel felt just as uncomfortable as Reddy Fox , and Shadow is very short-tempered .
Every time Reddy moved and squeezed Shadow , Shadow would snap at him .
Now , of course , they could hear everything that was said outside , and the things that were said were not pleasant to listen to .
Bobby Coon and Billy Mink and Johnny Chuck and Little Joe Otter and Jimmy Skunk told about all the mean things and all the sharp tricks that Reddy Fox and Shadow had done .
It made the two little prisoners so angry that they ground their teeth , but every time they made the least little movement , Prickly Porky would shake his thousand little spears and settle himself still more firmly against the opening in the hollow log .
He certainly was enjoying himself .
It tickled him almost to pieces to think how easily he had trapped smart Reddy Fox , the boaster .
So they waited all the long day for the coming of Unc ' Billy Possum 's family , and when at last they did arrive , there was the merriest surprise party ever seen .
Only Sammy Jay , Blacky the Crow , Reddy Fox and Shadow the Weasel were unhappy , and of course no one cared for that .
XIII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM GROWS HUNGRY Unc ' Billy Possum spent the very coldest days of winter curled up in his warm , snug home in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest .
Unc ' Billy did n't like the cold weather .
Sometimes he would stick his head out of his doorway and then , as he heard rough Brother North Wind whooping through the Green Forest , he would turn right around and go back to his bed for another nap .
And all the time he would be saying : `` Way down Souf de sun am shinin ' -- Yas , Sah , dat am so !
Fo ' dat lan ' mah heart am pinin ' -- Yas , Sah , dat am so !
`` De mocking-bird he sings all day , De alligators am at play , De flowers dey am bloomin ' fair , And mah heart aches to be down there -- Yas , Sah , dat am so ! ''
Now Unc ' Billy had prepared for the winter by getting just as fat as he knew how .
He was so fat that he could hardly waddle when Jack Frost first came to the Green Forest .
You see he knew that if he was very , very fat he would n't have to worry about getting anything to eat , not for a long time , anyway .
So when the ice and snow came , and Unc ' Billy decided that it was more comfortable indoors than outdoors , he was almost as fat as Johnny Chuck was when he went to sleep for the long winter .
Now Johnny Chuck just slept and slept and slept , without waking once the whole winter long .
But Unc ' Billy Possum could n't sleep like that .
He had to stick his head out every little while to see how the world was getting along without him .
When the sun was bright and the air was not too cold , Unc ' Billy would sometimes climb down from his hollow tree and walk about a little on the snow .
But he did n't enjoy it much .
It made his feet cold , and then he did n't like the tracks he made .
He scowled at them , for he knew well enough that if Farmer Brown 's boy should happen along , he would know right away who had made those tracks , and then he would hunt for Unc ' Billy 's home in the hollow tree .
So Unc ' Billy did n't go out very much , and very seldom indeed when the snow was soft .
It seemed to Unc ' Billy Possum as if the winter never , never would go .
He was beginning to grow thin now , and of course he was getting hungry .
He began to think about it , and the more he thought about it , the hungrier he grew .
One morning he stuck his head out of his doorway , and whom should he see trotting along below but Jimmy Skunk .
Jimmy looked fat and comfortable and as if he did not mind the cold weather at all .
`` Good mo ` ning , Jimmy Skunk , '' said Unc ' Billy .
Jimmy Skunk looked up .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy ! ''
he exclaimed .
`` I have n't seen you for a long time ! ''
`` Whar yo ' been , Jimmy Skunk ? ''
asked Unc ' Billy .
Jimmy winked one eye .
`` Getting my breakfast of nice fresh eggs , '' he replied .
Unc ' Billy Possum 's mouth began to water .
`` Did yo ' leave any ? ''
he anxiously inquired .
Jimmy Skunk allowed that he did , and Unc ' Billy gave a long sigh , as he watched Jimmy Skunk amble off up the Lone Little Path .
Unc ' Billy could n't sleep any more now .
No , Sir , he could n't sleep a wink .
All he could do was to think how hungry he was .
He would shut his eyes , and then it seemed as if he could see right into Farmer Brown 's hen-house , and there were eggs , eggs , eggs , everywhere .
Finally Unc ' Billy made up his mind .
`` Ah 'm going up there the very first dark night ! ''
said he .
XIV OLD MRS. POSSUM GROWS WORRIED Old Mrs. Possum counted her babies to be sure that they all were tucked snug and warm in their bed in the old hollow tree in the Green Forest .
`` One , two , three , four , five , six , seven , eight . ''
They were all there .
Mrs. Possum looked at them with a great deal of pride and sighed as she thought of how soon they would be leaving the old hollow tree to see the great world and make homes for themselves .
Just as soon as the beautiful spring came , they would one by one slip away .
Mrs. Possum sighed again .
She did n't like winter .
No , Sir , she did n't like winter one bit .
But when she thought of how her babies would leave her , she almost wished that spring never would come .
Sure that her babies were warm and comfortable , old Mrs. Possum went to the door and looked out .
It was plain to be seen that Mrs. Possum was worried .
That was the tenth time she had looked out in half an hour .
Her sharp little old face looked sharper than ever .
It always looks sharper when she is worried , just as the tongues of some people always grow sharper when they are worried .
`` Ah don ' see what can be keepin ' mah ol' man !
Ah 'm plumb worried to death , '' muttered old Mrs. Possum .
Right that very minute she heard a noise outside that made her hurry to the door and thrust her head out once more .
It was Sammy Jay , shrieking : `` Thief !
Thief !
Thief ! ''
at the top of his lungs .
`` He 's a thief himself and just a low-down mischief-maker , for all his smart clo'es , but he knows a powerful lot about what is going on in the Green Forest , and perhaps he has seen mah ol' man , '' said old Mrs. Possum , as she tried to make her sharp face as pleasant as possible .
She looked over at Sammy Jay , who was in the next tree , and smiled , and when she smiled she showed all her sharp teeth .
`` Good mo ` ning , Brer Jay , '' said she .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaimed Sammy Jay , not at all politely .
`` Where 's Uncle Billy Possum ? ''
Old Mrs. Possum shook her head , and the worried look came back into her face , although she tried hard , oh , so hard , not to let it .
`` He done go out fo ' a walk , '' replied old Mrs. Possum .
`` Ah reckons yo'all just got up , or yo ' would have met up with him somewhere . ''
Old Mrs. Possum said this just to try to make Sammy Jay talk , for Sammy is very quick-tempered , and quick-tempered people often say a lot more than they mean to .
You see , Mrs. Possum was quite sure that if Sammy Jay knew how worried she was over Unc ' Billy Possum , he would refuse to tell her whether or not he had seen Unc ' Billy , for Sammy Jay is mean and loves to torment others .
Sammy 's temper flared up right away .
`` I 've been up ever since sun-up ! ''
he sputtered .
`` Your old man is n't anywhere in the Green Forest , unless he 's gone to sleep in some other hollow tree , and I would n't blame him a bit if he had !
No , Sir , I would n't blame him the least bit ! ''
`` Keep your temper , Brer Jay !
Keep your temper , do , Oh pray ! ''
said old Mrs. Possum , grinning in the most aggravating way as she turned back to her babies .
She had found out what she wanted to know -- Sammy Jay had seen nothing of Unc ' Billy Possum .
Old Mrs. Possum sat down with her head in her hands .
She was more worried than ever .
XV THE FOOLISHNESS OF UNC ' BILLY POSSUM If Unc ' Billy Possum had n't happened to look out of his doorway in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest , or if Jimmy Skunk had n't happened to come along just that very minute , or if Unc ' Billy had n't asked Jimmy where he had been , or if Jimmy had n't mentioned nice fresh eggs , Unc ' Billy would n't have been foolish , and old Mrs. Possum would n't have been worried .
But all those things did happen .
After Jimmy Skunk had mentioned his fine breakfast of fresh eggs , Unc ' Billy Possum could n't think of anything else .
He knew well enough where Jimmy had found those eggs .
Yes , indeed , Unc ' Billy knew all about it .
He could shut his eyes and just see the inside of Farmer Brown 's hen-house with the rows of hens and roosters sitting on the roosts at one end , their heads tucked under their wings .
He could see the rows of nests and the beautiful brown eggs in them .
Jimmy Skunk could n't climb , and so he could have gotten only the eggs in the lower nests .
Now if he , Unc ' Billy , had been there , he could have climbed to the very topmost nest and -- but what was the use of thinking about it ?
He had n't been there , and he could n't go now , because it was daylight .
All the rest of the day Unc ' Billy tried to sleep , but when he did sleep he dreamed about eggs , nice , fresh , delicious eggs , and when he was awake he though about eggs .
It made him more and more uneasy and fidgety .
Old Mrs. Possum could n't stand it .
`` What all am the matter with yo ' ? ''
she snapped .
`` Ah do wish yo ' would keep still a minute ! ''
Unc ' Billy muttered something , but all that Mrs. Possum could hear was `` eggs . ''
`` Now do n't yo'all get to thinking of such foolishness as eggs , '' she commanded .
`` It is n't safe to be snooping around Farmer Brown 's hen-house when there 's snow on the ground .
Yo ' just fo ` get all about eggs !
Do yo ' hear what Ah say ? ''
Unc ' Billy nodded that he did .
But just the same he could n't think of anything else .
He knew that old Mrs. Possum was right , and that it was n't safe to go fooling around Farmer Brown 's hen-house and leaving his tracks for everybody who came along to see .
Just the same , Unc ' Billy felt that he had got to have a nice fresh egg .
He had got to have it .
That is all there was about it .
As soon as jolly , round , red Mr. Sun had gone to bed behind the Purple Hills that night , Unc ' Billy crept out of his home in the hollow tree .
`` Where are yo ' going ? ''
demanded Mrs. Possum .
`` Just to stretch the kinks out of mah legs , '' replied Unc ' Billy .
Old Mrs. Possum looked after him suspiciously .
`` Do n't yo ' go fo ' to do any foolishness ! ''
she called .
Unc ' Billy did n't answer .
He was on his way to Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
XVI WHY UNC ' BILLY POSSUM DID N'T GO HOME Unc ' Billy Possum had a very good reason for not going home , a very good reason , indeed .
Even old Mrs. Possum would have thought it was a good reason , could she have known it .
But she did n't know it , and so she sat in the home in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest and worried herself almost sick , because Unc ' Billy did n't come home , and she did n't know what might have happened to him .
Sometimes Unc ' Billy wished that he was back in the old hollow tree , and sometimes he was glad that he was right where he was .
Sometimes he felt little shivers of fear run all over him as he thought of what might become of him if he should be found .
Sometimes a little tickly feeling of pleasure ran all over him , as he bit a hole in the end of a freshly laid egg and sucked the egg out of the shell .
Now Unc ' Billy was very , very crafty .
He had found Jimmy Skunk 's tracks boldly leading up to the hen-house , so Unc ' Billy had stepped as carefully as he knew how in the footprints of Jimmy Skunk , in order that Farmer Brown 's boy might think that Jimmy Skunk was the only visitor to the hen-house .
But with all his craft , there was one thing that Unc ' Billy forgot .
Yes , Sir , there was one thing Unc ' Billy forgot all about .
He forgot to keep his tail up .
He was trying so hard to step in the footprints of Jimmy Skunk , that he forgot all about that little , smooth , handy old tail of his , and he let it drag along the snow .
-LSB- Illustration : He just ate and ate until he could n't eat another one . -RSB-
When Unc ' Billy was safely in the hen-house , he hurried from one nest to another .
There were eggs , plenty of them .
It seemed to him that nothing he had ever seen before had looked half so good as those eggs .
He just ate and ate and ate until he could n't eat another one .
Now a full stomach is very apt to make a sleepy head .
Unc ' Billy knew that the thing for him to do was to hurry home as fast as he could go , but he did n't .
No , Sir , he did n't do it .
The hen-house was warm and here were some of the nicest nests of hay .
He was tired after his long walk from the Green Forest , for Unc ' Billy had done so little walking this winter that he was rather out of practice .
Why not take a teeny , weeny nap before he started back home ?
Unc ' Billy climbed to the very last nest in the topmost row , way up in a dark corner .
It had n't been used for a long time , but it was full of nice , soft hay .
Unc ' Billy curled himself up in it , and with a great sigh of contentment , closed his eyes for that teeny , weeny nap .
He did n't open them again until he heard an angry voice right close to him .
He peeped out .
It was broad daylight , and there , just below him , was Farmer Brown 's boy , looking at the empty egg-shells left by Unc ' Billy .
Farmer Brown 's boy was angry .
Yes , indeed , he was very , very angry .
Unc ' Billy shivered as he listened .
Then he snuggled down out of sight under the hay of the nest .
XVII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM LIES LOW Farmer Brown 's boy was angry .
Yes , Sir , he was angry .
There was no doubt about that .
He had found the empty shells of the eggs which Unc ' Billy had eaten in the night , and Unc ' Billy knew by the sound of his voice that Farmer Brown 's boy meant to find the thief .
It was a terrible position to be in , right there in the hen-house , with no chance to run .
Unc ' Billy wished with all his might that he had never thought of eggs , and that he was safe back home in the dear old hollow tree in the Green Forest .
Oh , dear !
oh , dear !
Why had n't he gone right straight back there , after eating those eggs , instead of taking a nap ?
But he had n't .
He had taken a nap and overslept , and here he was , right in the hen-house , in broad daylight .
`` It must have been a Skunk , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy , `` and if it was , he must have left some tracks in the snow outside .
I 'll just look around a bit . ''
Unc ' Billy almost chuckled as he heard Farmer Brown 's boy go out .
`` He 'll find Jimmy Skunk 's tracks , but he wo n't find mine , '' thought Unc ' Billy .
`` Is n't it lucky that I thought to step right in Jimmy Skunk 's tracks when I came here ? ''
He lay still and listened to Farmer Brown 's boy poking around outside .
He heard him exclaim : `` Ah , I thought so ! ''
and knew that he had found the tracks Jimmy Skunk had made in the snow .
Unc ' Billy almost chuckled again as he thought what a smart fellow he had been to step in Jimmy Skunk 's tracks .
And right then he heard something that put an end to all his fine thoughts about his own smartness , and sent little cold shivers up and down his backbone .
`` Hello ! ''
said the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` These are queer tracks !
That Skunk must have had a queer tail , for here are the marks of it in the snow , and they look as if they might have been made by the tail of a very big rat . ''
Unc ' Billy remembered then for the first time that when he had thought he was so smart , he had forgotten to hold his tail up .
He had dragged it in the snow , and of course it had left a mark .
`` I guess that there was more than one visitor here last night , '' continued the voice of Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` Here are the tracks of the Skunk going away from the hen-house , but I do n't see any of those other queer tracks going away .
Whoever made them must be right around here now . ''
Back into the hen-house came Farmer Brown 's boy and began to poke around in all the corners .
He moved all the boxes and looked in the grain bin .
Then he began to look in the nests .
Unc ' Billy could hear him coming nearer and nearer .
He was looking in the very next nest to the one in which Unc ' Billy was .
Finally he looked into that very nest .
Unc ' Billy Possum held his breath .
Now the nest in which Unc ' Billy was hiding was on the topmost row in the darkest corner of the hen-house , and Unc ' Billy had crawled down underneath the hay .
Perhaps it was because that corner was so dark , or perhaps it was because that nest was so high up , that Farmer Brown 's boy really did n't expect to find anything there .
Anyway , all he saw was the hay , and he did n't take the trouble to put his hand in and feel for anything under the hay .
`` It 's queer , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` It 's very queer !
I guess I shall have to set some traps . ''
And all the time Unc ' Billy Possum held his breath and lay low .
XVIII UNC ' BILLY POSSUM IS A PRISONER `` Mah home is in a holler tree -- It 's a long way home !
Ah wish Ah 's there , but here Ah be -- It 's a long way home !
If Ah had only been content Instead of out on mischief bent , Ah 'd have no reason to repent -- It 's a long way home ! ''
Unc ' Billy Possum lay curled up under the hay in the highest nest in the darkest corner in Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
Unc ' Billy did n't dare go to sleep , because he was afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy might find him .
And , anyway , he wanted to see just what Farmer Brown 's boy was doing .
So peeping out , he watched Farmer Brown 's boy , who seemed to be very busy indeed .
What do you think he was doing ?
Unc ' Billy knew .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy knew just what Farmer Brown 's boy was doing .
He was setting traps .
Unc ' Billy 's eyes twinkled as he watched Farmer Brown 's boy , for Unc ' Billy knew that those traps were being set for him , and now that he knew just where each one was , of course he was n't a bit afraid .
It seemed to Unc ' Billy that it was just the greatest kind of a joke to be watching Farmer Brown 's boy set those traps , while all the time Farmer Brown 's boy thought he was hiding them so cleverly that the only way they would be found would be by some one stepping into one and getting caught .
`` There , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy , as he set the last trap , `` I 'd like to see anything get into this hen-house now without getting caught ! ''
Unc ' Billy almost chuckled aloud .
Yes , Sir , he almost chuckled aloud .
It was such a funny idea that Farmer Brown 's boy should have taken all the trouble to set those traps to catch Unc ' Billy trying to get into the hen-house , when all the time he was already in there .
Unc ' Billy laughed under his breath as Farmer Brown 's boy closed the door of the hen-house and went off whistling .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha !
Hee , hee ! ''
Unc ' Billy broke off short , right in the very middle of his laugh .
He had just thought of something , and it was n't funny at all .
With all those traps set at every opening to the hen-house , no one could get in without getting caught , and of course no one who was in could get out without getting caught !
The joke was n't on Farmer Brown 's boy , after all ; it was on Unc ' Billy Possum .
But Unc ' Billy could n't see that it was any joke at all .
Unc ' Billy was a prisoner , a prisoner in Farmer Brown 's hen-house , and he did n't know how ever he was going to get out of there .
`` It 's a long way home , '' said Unc ' Billy mournfully , as he peeped out of a crack toward the Green Forest .
XIX WHAT THE SNOW DID Unc ' Billy Possum did a lot of thinking .
He was a prisoner , just as much a prisoner as if he were in a cage .
Now Unc ' Billy Possum would n't have minded being a prisoner in the hen-house but for two things ; he was dreadfully afraid that his old friend and partner , Jimmy Skunk , would get hungry for eggs and would get caught in the traps , and he was still more afraid that Farmer Brown 's boy would think to put his hand down under the hay in the last nest of the top row in the darkest corner .
So Unc ' Billy spent most of his time studying and thinking of some way to get out , and if he could n't do that , of some way to warn Jimmy Skunk to keep away from Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
If it had n't been for those two worries , Unc ' Billy would have been willing to stay there the rest of the winter .
It was delightfully warm and cosy .
He knew which nest Mrs. Speckles always used and which one Mrs. Feathertoes liked best , and he knew that of all the eggs laid in Farmer Brown 's hen-house those laid by Mrs. Speckles and Mrs. Feathertoes were the best .
Having all the eggs he could eat , Unc ' Billy had grown very particular .
Nothing but the best , the very best , would do for him .
So he would lie curled up in the last nest of the top row in the darkest corner and wait until he heard the high-pitched voice of Mrs. Speckles proudly crying : `` Cut , cut , cut , cut , cut , cut-aa-cut !
I lay the finest eggs in the world ! ''
Then Unc ' Billy would chuckle to himself and wait a few minutes longer for the voice of Mrs. Feathertoes , saying : `` Cut , cut , cut , cut , cut-aa-cut , cut , cut , cut !
No one lays such splendid eggs as I do ! ''
Then , while Mrs. Speckles and Mrs. Feathertoes were disputing as to which laid the best eggs , Unc ' Billy would slip out and breakfast on both those newly laid eggs .
So for almost a week Unc ' Billy lived in Farmer Brown 's hen-house and ate the eggs of Mrs. Speckles and Mrs. Feathertoes and hid in the last nest of the top row in the darkest corner and shivered as he heard Farmer Brown 's boy tell what would happen if he caught the one who was stealing those eggs .
Sometimes the door was left open during the day , and Unc ' Billy would peep out and wish that he dared to run .
But he did n't , for Bowser the Hound was always prowling around , and then again he was almost sure to be seen by some one .
At last one day it began to snow .
It snowed all day and it snowed all night .
Rough Brother North Wind piled it up in great drifts in front of the hen-house door and all along one side of the hen-house .
It covered the traps so deep that they could n't possibly catch any one .
As soon as the snow stopped falling , Unc ' Billy began to dig his way up to the top from the very hole by which he had entered the hen-house .
He did n't like it , for he does n't like snow , but now was his chance to get away , and he meant to make the most of it .
XX UNC ' BILLY POSSUM WISHES HE HAD SNOWSHOES Unc ' Billy Possum did n't know whether he liked the snow more than he hated it or hated it more than he liked it , just now .
Usually he dislikes the snow very much , and does n't go out in it any more than he has to .
But this time the snow had done Unc ' Billy a good turn , a very good turn , indeed .
Once out of the hen-house , Unc ' Billy lost no time in starting for the Green Forest .
But it was slow , hard work .
You see , the snow was newly fallen and very soft .
Of course Unc ' Billy sank into it almost up to his middle at every step .
He huffed and he puffed and he grunted and groaned .
You see Unc ' Billy had slept so much through the winter that he was not at all used to hard work of any kind , and he was n't half way to the Green Forest before he was so tired it seemed to him that he could hardly move , and so out of breath that he could only gasp .
It was then that he was sure that he hated the snow more than he liked it , even if it had set him free from the hen-house of Farmer Brown .
Now it never does to let one 's wits go to sleep .
Some folks call it forgetting , but forgetting is nothing but sleepy wits .
And sleepy wits get more people into trouble than anything else in the world .
Unc ' Billy Possum 's wits were asleep when he left Farmer Brown 's hen-house .
If they had n't been , he would have remembered this little saying : The wits that live within my head Must never , never go to sleep , For if they should I might forget And Trouble on me swiftly leap .
But Unc ' Billy 's wits certainly were asleep .
He was so tickled over the idea that he could get out of the hen-house , that he could n't think of anything else , and so he forgot .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy forgot !
What did he forget ?
Why , he forgot that that nice , soft snow , which so kindly buried the dreadful traps so that they could do no harm , could n't be waded through without leaving tracks .
Unc ' Billy forgot all about that , until he was half way to the Green Forest , and then , as he sat down to rest and get his breath , he remembered .
-LSB- Illustration : There all the way from Farmer Brown 's hen-house was a broad trail in the smooth white snow . -RSB-
Unc ' Billy looked behind him , and he turned pale .
Yes , Sir , Unc ' Billy Possum turned pale !
There , all the way from Farmer Brown 's hen-house , was a broad trail in the smooth white snow , where he had plowed his way through .
If Farmer Brown 's boy should come out to look at his traps , he would see that track at once , and all he would have to do would be to follow it until it led him to Unc ' Billy .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
Whatever did Ah leave the hen-house for ? ''
wailed Unc ' Billy .
His wits were all wide awake now .
It would n't do to go back .
Farmer Brown 's boy would see that he had gone back , and then he would hunt that hen-house through until he found Unc ' Billy .
No , there was nothing to do but to go on , and trust that Farmer Brown 's boy was so snowed in and would be kept so busy shovelling out paths , that he would forget all about looking at his traps .
Unc ' Billy drew a long breath and began to wade ahead toward the Green Forest .
`` If Ah only had snowshoes ! ''
he panted .
`` If Ah only had snowshoes like Mrs. Grouse . ''
XXI FARMER BROWN 'S BOY CHOPS DOWN A TREE `` There was an old Possum lived up in a tree ; Hi , ho , see the chips fly !
The sliest old thief that you ever did see ; Hi , ho , see the chips fly !
He ate and he ate in the dark of the night , And when the day came not an egg was in sight , But now that I know where he 's making his bed , I 'll do without eggs and will eat him instead !
Hi , ho , see the chips fly ! ''
Farmer Brown 's boy sang as he swung his keen axe , and the chips did fly .
They flew out on the white snow in all directions .
And the louder Farmer Brown 's boy sang , the faster the chips flew .
Farmer Brown 's boy had come to the Green Forest bright and early that morning , and he had made up his mind that he would take home a fat Possum for dinner .
He did n't have the least doubt about it , and that is why he sang as he made the chips fly .
He had tracked that Possum right up to that tree , and there were no tracks going away from it .
Right up near the top he could see a hollow , just such a hollow as a Possum likes .
All he had to do was to cut the tree down and split it open , and Mr. Possum would be his .
So Farmer Brown 's boy swung his axe , chop , chop , chop , and the chips flew out on the white snow , and Farmer Brown 's boy sang , never once thinking of how the Possum he was after might feel .
Of course it was Unc ' Billy Possum whose tracks he had followed .
He had seen them outside of the hen-house , just as Unc ' Billy had been afraid that he would .
He could n't very well have helped it , those tracks were so very plain to be seen .
That had been a long , hard , anxious journey for Unc ' Billy from Farmer Brown 's hen-house to the Green Forest .
The snow was so deep that he could hardly wade through it .
When he reached that hollow tree , he was so tired that it was all he could do to climb it .
Of course it was n't his own hollow tree , where old Mrs. Possum and the eight little Possums lived .
He knew better than to go there , leaving a plain track for Farmer Brown 's boy to follow .
So he had been very thankful to climb up this hollow tree .
And , just as he had feared , there was Farmer Brown 's boy .
Chop , chop , chop !
The snow was covered with chips now .
Chop , chop , chop !
The tree began to shiver and then to shake .
Cra-a-ck !
With a great crash over it went !
Bowser the Hound barked excitedly , and with Farmer Brown 's boy rushed to the hollow near the top to catch Mr. Possum , if he should run out .
But he did n't run out .
Farmer Brown 's boy rapped on the tree with the handle of his axe , but no one ran out .
`` I guess he 's playing dead , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy , and began to split open the tree , so as to get into the hollow .
And as he chopped , he began to sing again .
Pretty soon he had split the tree wide open .
In the bottom of the hollow was an old nest of Chatterer the Red Squirrel , and that was all .
Farmer Brown 's boy rubbed his eyes and stared and stared and stared .
There were Unc ' Billy 's tracks leading straight up to that tree and none leading away .
Did that Possum have wings ?
XXII WHERE UNC ' BILLY POSSUM WAS Where was Unc ' Billy Possum ?
That is what Farmer Brown 's boy wanted to know .
That is what Bowser the Hound wanted to know .
Where was Unc ' Billy Possum ?
He was in another hollow tree all the time and laughing till his sides ached as he peeped out and saw how hard Farmer Brown 's boy worked .
`` Ah done fool him that time , '' said Unc ' Billy , as he watched Farmer Brown 's boy wading off home through the snow , with Bowser the Hound at his heels .
`` You certainly did , Unc ' Billy !
How did you do it ? ''
asked a voice right over Unc ' Billy 's head .
Unc ' Billy looked up in surprise .
There was Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
Unc ' Billy grinned .
`` Ah just naturally expected Ah was gwine to have visitors , and so Ah prepared a little surprise .
Yes , Sah , Ah done prepare a little surprise .
Yo ' see , mah tracks in the snow was powerful plain .
Yes , Sah , they sho ` ly was !
When Ah had climbed up that tree and looked down and saw all those tracks what Ah done made , Ah began to get powerful anxious .
Yes , Sah , Ah done get so anxious Ah just could n't get any rest in mah mind .
Ah knew Farmer Brown 's boy was gwine to find those tracks , and when he did , he was gwine to follow 'em right smart quick .
Sho ' enough , just before sundown , here he comes .
He followed mah tracks right up to the foot of the tree whar Ah was hiding in the hollow , and Ah heard him say : `` So this is whar yo ' live , is it , Mistah Possum ?
Ah reckon Bowser and Ah 'll make yo ' a call to-morrow . ''
`` When I heard him say that , Ah felt right bad .
Yes , Sah , Ah sho ` ly did feel right smart bad .
Ah studied and Ah studied how Ah was gwine to fool Farmer Brown 's boy and Bowser the Hound .
If Ah climbed down and went somewhere else , Ah would have to leave tracks , and that boy done bound to find me just the same .
Ah done wish Ah had wings like yo ' and Brer Buzzard .
`` So po ' ol' Unc ' Billy sat studying and studying and getting mo ' and mo ' troubled in his mind .
By and by Ah noticed that a branch from that holler tree rubbed against a branch of another tree , and a branch of that tree rubbed against a branch of another tree , and if Ah made a right smart jump from that Ah could get into this tree , which had a holler just made fo ' me .
Ah did n't waste no mo ' time studying .
No , Sah , Ah just moved right away , and here Ah am . ''
`` And you did n't leave any tracks , and you did n't have any wings , '' said Tommy Tit the Chickadee .
`` No , '' said Unc ' Billy , `` but Ah done find that yo ' can most always find a way out , if yo ' look hard enough .
Just now , Ah am looking right smart hard fo ' a way to get home , but Ah reckon mah eyesight am failing ; Ah don ' see any yet . ''
`` Dee , dee , dee ! ''
laughed Tommy Tit merrily .
`` Be patient , Unc ' Billy , and perhaps you will . ''
XXIII HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL MAKES AN UNEXPECTED CALL Happy Jack Squirrel likes the snow .
He always has liked the snow .
It makes him feel frisky .
He likes to run and jump in it and dig little holes in it after nuts , which he hid under the leaves before the snow fell .
When his feet get cold , all he has to do is to scamper up a tree and warm them in his own fur coat .
So the big snowstorm which made so much trouble for Unc ' Billy Possum just suited Happy Jack Squirrel , and he had a whole lot of fun making his funny little tracks all through that part of the Green Forest in which he lives .
Happy Jack did n't know anything about Unc ' Billy Possum 's troubles .
He supposed that Unc ' Billy was safe at home in his own big hollow tree , fast asleep , as he had been most of the winter .
Happy Jack could n't understand how anybody could want to sleep such fine weather , but that was their own business , and Happy Jack had learned a long time ago not to worry about other people 's business .
After frisking about he would stop to rest .
Then he would sit up very straight and fold his hands across his breast , where they would get nice and warm in the fur of his coat .
His beautiful , great gray tail would be arched up over his back .
His bright eyes would snap and twinkle , and then he would shout just for joy , and every time he shouted he jerked his big tail .
Farmer Brown 's boy called it barking , but it was Happy Jack 's way of shouting .
`` I love to romp !
I love to play !
I 'm happy , happy , all the day !
I love the snow , so soft and white !
I love the sun that shines so bright !
I love the whole world , for , you see , The world is very good to me ! ''
By and by Happy Jack came to the hollow tree that Farmer Brown 's boy had cut down because he thought that Unc ' Billy Possum was inside of it .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaimed Happy Jack .
`` That 's one of the old storehouses of my cousin , Chatterer the Red Squirrel !
I 've got an old storehouse near here , and I guess I 'll see if I have left any nuts in it . ''
He scampered over to another hollow tree standing near .
He scampered up the tree as only Happy Jack can and whisked in at the open doorway of the hollow .
Now Happy Jack had been in that hollow tree so often that he did n't once think of looking to see where he was going , and he landed plump on something that was soft and warm !
Happy Jack was so surprised that he did n't know what to do for a second .
And then all in a flash that something soft and warm was full of sharp claws and sharper teeth , and an angry growling tilled the hollow tree .
Happy Jack was so frightened that he scrambled out as fast as he could .
When he was safely outside , he grew very angry to think that any one should be in his storehouse , even if it was an old one .
He could hear a very angry voice inside , and in a minute who should appear at the doorway but Unc ' Billy Possum .
Unc ' Billy had been waked out of a sound sleep , and that was enough to make any one cross .
Besides , he had been badly frightened , and that made him crosser still .
`` What do yo ' mean by trying to frighten honest people ? ''
snapped Unc ' Billy , when he caught sight of Happy Jack .
`` What do you mean by stealing into other folk 's houses ? ''
demanded Happy Jack , just as angrily .
XXIV HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL HELPS UNC ' BILLY POSSUM It is very startling , very startling indeed , to rush into your own storehouse , which you had supposed was empty , and run right into some one sleeping there as if he owned it .
It is enough to make any one lose his temper .
Happy Jack Squirrel lost his .
And it is very startling , very startling , indeed , to be wakened out of pleasant dreams of warm summer days by having some one suddenly jump on you .
It is enough to make any one lose his temper .
Unc ' Billy Possum lost his .
So Happy Jack sat outside on a branch of the hollow tree where his old storehouse was and scolded , and called Unc ' Billy Possum names , and jerked his tail angrily with every word he said .
And Unc ' Billy Possum sat in the doorway of the hollow tree and showed his teeth to Happy Jack and said unpleasant things .
It really was very dreadful the way those two did talk .
But Unc ' Billy Possum is really very good-natured , and when he had gotten over the fright Happy Jack had given him and began to understand that he was in one of Happy Jack 's storehouses , all his temper vanished , and presently he began to grin and then to laugh .
Now it always takes two to make a quarrel , and one of the hardest things in the world is to keep cross when the one you are cross with wo n't keep cross , too .
Happy Jack tried hard to stay angry , but every time he looked at Unc ' Billy Possum 's twinkling eyes and broad grin , Happy Jack lost a little of his own temper .
Pretty soon he was laughing just as hard as Unc ' Billy Possum .
`` Ho , ho , ho !
Ha , ha , ha ! ''
they laughed together .
Finally they had to stop for breath .
`` What are you doing in my storehouse , Unc ' Billy ? ''
asked Happy Jack , when he could stop laughing .
Then Unc ' Billy told him all about how he had climbed there from another tree , so as to leave no tracks in the snow for Farmer Brown 's boy to follow .
`` But now Ah want to go to mah own home in the big hollow tree way down in the Green Forest , but Ah ca n't , on account of mah tracks in the snow , '' concluded Unc ' Billy mournfully .
Happy Jack put his head on one side and thought very hard .
`` Why do n't you stay right here until the snow goes , Unc ' Billy ? ''
he asked .
`` Because Ah ` spects that mah ol' woman am worried most to death , '' said Unc ' Billy , in a mournful voice .
`` Besides , '' he added , `` Ah just done found out that this right nice lil ' house belongs to one of mah neighbors . ''
There was a twinkle in Unc ' Billy 's eyes .
Happy Jack laughed .
`` You 're welcome to stay as long as you like , Unc ' Billy , '' he said .
`` You better stay right where you are , and I 'll go tell old Mrs. Possum where you are . ''
`` Thank yo ' !
Thank yo ' !
That is very kind of yo ' , Brer Squirrel .
That will be a great help , fo ' it will lift a great load off mah mind , '' said Unc ' Billy .
`` Do n't mention it , Unc ' Billy ! ''
replied Happy Jack and started off with the message to old Mrs. Possum , and as he scampered through the snow he said : `` To get yourself in trouble is a very easy thing .
I notice that to others it will always worries bring .
But getting out of trouble 's always quite the other way -- The more you try to wriggle out , the longer you must stay . ''
XXV HAPPY JACK SQUIRREL 'S BRIGHT IDEA Happy Jack Squirrel frisked along through the snow on his way to Unc ' Billy Possum 's house in the big hollow tree in the Green Forest to tell old Mrs. Possum that Unc ' Billy was safe in another hollow tree on the edge of the Green Forest , but that he did n't dare to come home because he would leave tracks in the snow .
He found old Mrs. Possum very much worried and very much out of sorts .
You see Unc ' Billy had been gone a long time for him , and she did n't know what had become of him .
Now of course old Mrs. Possum was very much relieved when she heard that Unc ' Billy was safe , for she had been afraid that something dreadful had happened to him .
But just as soon as she knew that he was safe , she forgot all about how worried she had been .
All she thought of was how Unc ' Billy had gone to get some fresh eggs to put in his own stomach and left her to take care of herself and eight baby Possums .
`` Yo ' tell Unc ' Billy Possum that Ah don ' care if he never comes back .
Ah done got other things to bother about more 'n a worthless , no ` count Possum what don ' take care of his fam ` ly , '' she said crossly , and hurried into the house to see that the eight little Possums were properly tucked in bed , for it was a cold day , and the eight little Possums had to stay in bed to keep warm .
Happy Jack chuckled as he started back to tell Unc ' Billy Possum .
He knew perfectly well that old Mrs. Possum did n't mean what she said .
He knew that Unc ' Billy would know that she did n't mean it .
But he knew , and he knew that Unc ' Billy knew , that when he did get home , he would get a great scolding .
Then all of a sudden Happy Jack thought of a way for Unc ' Billy to get home without waiting until the snow melted away .
That might be a very long time , for there was a great deal of snow on the ground .
What do you suppose gave Happy Jack his idea ?
Why , a tiny little snowflake that hit Happy Jack right on the end of his nose !
Yes , Sir , it was that tiny little snowflake that gave Happy Jack Squirrel his bright idea .
He hurried back to the hollow tree where Unc ' Billy was hiding and scrambled up to the doorway .
`` Hello , Unc ' Billy !
You can go home to-night ! ''
he shouted .
Unc ' Billy Possum stuck his head out of the doorway .
`` What 's that yo ' say , Brer Squirrel ? ''
he said .
`` Ah don ' see as the snow has gone away , and your tracks are powerful plain to see , and Ah makes bigger tracks than yo ' , Brer Squirrel . ''
`` Just look up in the sky , Unc ' Billy ! ''
said Happy Jack .
Unc ' Billy looked .
The sky was full of dancing snowflakes .
They got in his eyes and clung to his whiskers .
Unc ' Billy shook his head in disgust .
`` Ah don ' see anything but mo ' snow , and yo ' know Ah don ' like snow ! ''
he said .
`` What yo ' driving at , Brer Squirrel ? ''
Happy Jack laughed .
`` Why , it 's just as simple as can be , Unc ' Billy ! ''
he cried .
`` Just as soon as it 's dark , you start for home .
It 's going to snow all night , and in the morning there wo n't be any tracks .
The snowflakes will have covered them all up . ''
Unc ' Billy grinned .
`` Ah believe yo ' are right , Brer Squirrel , Ah believe yo ' are right ! ''
said Unc ' Billy .
And Happy Jack was right , for Unc ' Billy got safely home that very night , and the next morning , when Farmer Brown 's boy visited the Green Forest , there was n't a footprint to be seen anywhere .
So Unc ' Billy Possum learned how easy it is to get into trouble and how hard to get out of it .
But he is n't the only one who has found this out .
Just ask Unc ' Billy 's particular friend , Mistah Mocker the Mocking Bird .
He will tell you the very same thing .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Thornton_Waldo_Burgess___Whitefoot_the_Wood_Mouse.txt.out
CHAPTER I : Whitefoot Spends A Happy Winter In all his short life Whitefoot the Wood Mouse never had spent such a happy winter .
Whitefoot is one of those wise little people who never allow unpleasant things of the past to spoil their present happiness , and who never borrow trouble from the future .
Whitefoot believes in getting the most from the present .
The things which are past are past , and that is all there is to it .
There is no use in thinking about them .
As for the things of the future , it will be time enough to think about them when they happen .
If you and I had as many things to worry about as does Whitefoot the Wood Mouse , we probably never would be happy at all .
But Whitefoot is happy whenever he has a chance to be , and in this he is wiser than most human beings .
You see , there is not one of all the little people in the Green Forest who has so many enemies to watch out for as has Whitefoot .
There are ever so many who would like nothing better than to dine on plump little Whitefoot .
There are Buster Bear and Billy Mink and Shadow the Weasel and Unc ' Billy Possum and Hooty the Owl and all the members of the Hawk family , not to mention Blacky the Crow in times when other food is scarce .
Reddy and Granny Fox and Old Man Coyote are always looking for him .
So you see Whitefoot never knows at what instant he may have to run for his life .
That is why he is such a timid little fellow and is always running away at the least little unexpected sound .
In spite of all this he is a happy little chap .
It was early in the winter that Whitefoot found a little hole in a corner of Farmer Brown 's sugar-house and crept inside to see what it was like in there .
It did n't take him long to decide that it was the most delightful place he ever had found .
He promptly decided to move in and spend the winter .
In one end of the sugar-house was a pile of wood .
Down under this Whitefoot made himself a warm , comfortable nest .
It was a regular castle to Whitefoot .
He moved over to it the store of seeds he had laid up for winter use .
Not one of his enemies ever thought of visiting the sugar-house in search of Whitefoot , and they would n't have been able to get in if they had .
When rough Brother North Wind howled outside , and sleet and snow were making other little people shiver , Whitefoot was warm and comfortable .
There was all the room he needed or wanted in which to run about and play .
He could go outside when he chose to , but he did n't choose to very often .
For days at a time he did n't have a single fright .
Yes indeed , Whitefoot spent a happy winter .
CHAPTER II : Whitefoot Sees Queer Things Whitefoot had spent the winter undisturbed in Farmer Brown 's sugar-house .
He had almost forgotten the meaning of fear .
He had come to look on that sugar-house as belonging to him .
It was n't until Farmer Brown 's boy came over to prepare things for sugaring that Whitefoot got a single real fright .
The instant Farmer Brown 's boy opened the door , Whitefoot scampered down under the pile of wood to his snug little nest , and there he lay , listening to the strange sounds .
At last he could stand it no longer and crept to a place where he could peep out and see what was going on .
It did n't take him long to discover that this great two-legged creature was not looking for him , and right away he felt better .
After a while Farmer Brown 's boy went away , and Whitefoot had the little sugar-house to himself again .
But Farmer Brown 's boy had carelessly left the door wide open .
Whitefoot did n't like that open door .
It made him nervous .
There was nothing to prevent those who hunt him from walking right in .
So the rest of that night Whitefoot felt uncomfortable and anxious .
He felt still more anxious when next day Farmer Brown 's boy returned and became very busy putting things to right .
Then Farmer Brown himself came and strange things began to happen .
It became as warm as in summer .
You see Farmer Brown had built a fire under the evaporator .
Whitefoot 's curiosity kept him at a place where he could peep out and watch all that was done .
He saw Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy pour pails of sap into a great pan .
By and by a delicious odor filled the sugar-house .
It did n't take him a great while to discover that these two-legged creatures were so busy that he had nothing to fear from them , and so he crept out to watch .
He saw them draw the golden syrup from one end of the evaporator and fill shining tin cans with it .
Day after day they did the same thing .
At night when they had left and all was quiet inside the sugar-house , Whitefoot stole out and found delicious crumbs where they had eaten their lunch .
He tasted that thick golden stuff and found it sweet and good .
Later he watched them make sugar and nearly made himself sick that night when they had gone home , for they had left some of that sugar where he could get at it .
He did n't understand these queer doings at all .
But he was no longer afraid .
CHAPTER III : Farmer Brown 's Boy Becomes Acquainted It did n't take Farmer Brown 's boy long to discover that Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was living in the little sugar-house .
He caught glimpses of Whitefoot peeping out at him .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy is wise in the ways of the little people of the Green Forest .
Right away he made up his mind to get acquainted with Whitefoot .
He knew that not in all the Green Forest is there a more timid little fellow than Whitefoot , and he thought it would be a fine thing to be able to win the confidence of such a shy little chap .
So at first Farmer Brown 's boy paid no attention whatever to Whitefoot .
He took care that Whitefoot should n't even know that he had been seen .
Every day when he ate his lunch , Farmer Brown 's boy scattered a lot of crumbs close to the pile of wood under which Whitefoot had made his home .
Then he and Farmer Brown would go out to collect sap .
When they returned not a crumb would be left .
One day Farmer Brown 's boy scattered some particularly delicious crumbs .
Then , instead of going out , he sat down on a bench and kept perfectly still .
Farmer Brown and Bowser the Hound went out .
Of course Whitefoot heard them go out , and right away he poked his little head out from under the pile of wood to see if the way was clear .
Farmer Brown 's boy sat there right in plain sight , but Whitefoot did n't see him .
That was because Farmer Brown 's boy did n't move the least bit .
Whitefoot ran out and at once began to eat those delicious crumbs .
When he had filled his little stomach , he began to carry the remainder back to his storehouse underneath the woodpile .
While he was gone on one of these trips , Farmer Brown 's boy scattered more crumbs in a line that led right up to his foot .
Right there he placed a big piece of bread crust .
Whitefoot was working so hard and so fast to get all those delicious bits of food that he took no notice of anything else until he reached that piece of crust .
Then he happened to look up right into the eyes of Farmer Brown 's boy .
With a frightened little squeak Whitefoot darted back , and for a long time he was afraid to come out again .
But Farmer Brown 's boy did n't move , and at last Whitefoot could stand the temptation no longer .
He darted out halfway , scurried back , came out again , and at last ventured right up to the crust .
Then he began to drag it back to the woodpile .
Still Farmer Brown 's boy did not move .
For two or three days the same thing happened .
By this time , Whitefoot had lost all fear .
He knew that Farmer Brown 's boy would not harm him , and it was not long before he ventured to take a bit of food from Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand .
After that Farmer Brown 's boy took care that no crumbs should be scattered on the ground .
Whitefoot had to come to him for his food , and always Farmer Brown 's boy had something delicious for him .
CHAPTER IV : Whitefoot Grows Anxious 'T is sad indeed to trust a friend Then have that trust abruptly end .
-- Whitefoot I know of nothing that is more sad than to feel that a friend is no longer to be trusted .
There came a time when Whitefoot the Wood Mouse almost had this feeling .
It was a very , very anxious time for Whitefoot .
You see , Whitefoot and Farmer Brown 's boy had become the very best of friends there in the little sugar-house .
They had become such good friends that Whitefoot did not hesitate to take food from the hands of Farmer Brown 's boy .
Never in all his life had he had so much to eat or such good things to eat .
He was getting so fat that his handsome little coat was uncomfortably tight .
He ran about fearlessly while Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy were making maple syrup and maple sugar .
He had even lost his fear of Bowser the Hound , for Bowser had paid no attention to him whatever .
Now you remember that Whitefoot had made his home way down beneath the great pile of wood in the sugar-house .
Of course Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy used that wood for the fire to boil the sap to make the syrup and sugar .
Whitefoot thought nothing of this until one day he discovered that his little home was no longer as dark as it had been .
A little ray of light crept down between the sticks .
Presently another little ray of light crept down between the sticks .
It was then that Whitefoot began to grow anxious .
It was then he realized that that pile of wood was growing smaller and smaller , and if it kept on growing smaller , by and by there would n't be any pile of wood and his little home would n't be hidden at all .
Of course Whitefoot did n't understand why that wood was slipping away .
In spite of himself he began to grow suspicious .
He could n't think of any reason why that wood should be taken away , unless it was to look for his little home .
Farmer Brown 's boy was just as kind and friendly as ever , but all the time more and more light crept in , as the wood vanished .
`` Oh dear , what does it mean ? ''
cried Whitefoot to himself .
`` They must be looking for my home , yet they have been so good to me that it is hard to believe they mean any harm .
I do hope they will stop taking this wood away .
I wo n't have any hiding-place at all , and then I will have to go outside back to my old home in the hollow stump .
I do n't want to do that .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
I was so happy and now I am so worried !
Why ca n't happy times last always ? ''
CHAPTER V : The End Of Whitefoot 's Worries You never can tell !
You never can tell !
Things going wrong will often end well .
-- Whitefoot .
The next time you meet him just ask Whitefoot if this is n't so .
Things had been going very wrong for Whitefoot .
It had begun to look to Whitefoot as if he would no longer have a snug , hidden little home in Farmer Brown 's sugar-house .
The pile of wood under which he had made that snug little home was disappearing so fast that it began to look as if in a little while there would be no wood at all .
Whitefoot quite lost his appetite .
He no longer came out to take food from Farmer Brown 's boy 's hand .
He stayed right in his snug little home and worried .
Now Farmer Brown 's boy had not once thought of the trouble he was making .
He wondered what had become of Whitefoot , and in his turn he began to worry .
He was afraid that something had happened to his little friend .
He was thinking of this as he fed the sticks of wood to the fire for boiling the sap to make syrup and sugar .
Finally , as he pulled away two big sticks , he saw something that made him whistle with surprise .
It was Whitefoot 's nest which he had so cleverly hidden way down underneath that pile of wood when he had first moved into the sugar-house .
With a frightened little squeak , Whitefoot ran out , scurried across the little sugar-house and out though the open door .
Farmer Brown 's boy understood .
He understood perfectly that little people like Whitefoot want their homes hidden away in the dark .
`` Poor little chap , '' said Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` He had a regular castle here and we have destroyed it .
He 's got the snuggest kind of a little nest here , but he wo n't come back to it so long as it is right out in plain sight .
He probably thinks we have been hunting for this little home of his .
Hello !
Here 's his storehouse !
I 've often wondered how the little rascal could eat so much , but now I understand .
He stored away here more than half of the good things I have given him .
I am glad he did .
If he had n't , he might not come back , but I feel sure that to-night , when all is quiet , he will come back to take away all his food .
I must do something to keep him here . ''
Farmer Brown 's boy sat down to think things over .
Then he got an old box and made a little round hole in one end of it .
Very carefully he took up Whitefoot 's nest and placed it under the old box in the darkest corner of the sugar-house .
Then he carried all Whitefoot 's supplies over there and put them under the box .
He went outside , and got some branches of hemlock and threw these in a little pile over the box .
After this he scattered some crumbs just outside .
Late that night Whitefoot did come back .
The crumbs led him to the old box .
He crept inside .
There was his snug little home !
All in a second Whitefoot understood , and trust and happiness returned .
CHAPTER VI : A Very Careless Jump Whitefoot once more was happy .
When he found his snug little nest and his store of food under that old box in the darkest corner of Farmer Brown 's sugar-house , he knew that Farmer Brown 's boy must have placed them there .
It was better than the old place under the woodpile .
It was the best place for a home Whitefoot ever had had .
It did n't take him long to change his mind about leaving the little sugar-house .
Somehow he seemed to know right down inside that his home would not again be disturbed .
So he proceeded to rearrange his nest and to put all his supplies of food in one corner of the old box .
When everything was placed to suit him he ventured out , for now that he no longer feared Farmer Brown 's boy he wanted to see all that was going on .
He liked to jump up on the bench where Farmer Brown 's boy sometimes sat .
He would climb up to where Farmer Brown 's boy 's coat hung and explore the pockets of it .
Once he stole Farmer Brown 's boy 's handkerchief .
He wanted it to add to the material his nest was made of .
Farmer Brown 's boy discovered it just as it was disappearing , and how he laughed as he pulled it away .
So , what with eating and sleeping and playing about , secure in the feeling that no harm could come to him , Whitefoot was happier than ever before in his little life .
He knew that Farmer Brown 's boy and Farmer Brown and Bowser the Hound were his friends .
He knew , too , that so long as they were about , none of his enemies would dare come near .
This being so , of course there was nothing to be afraid of .
No harm could possibly come to him .
At least , that is what Whitefoot thought .
But you know , enemies are not the only dangers to watch out for .
Accidents will happen .
When they do happen , it is very likely to be when the possibility of them is farthest from your thoughts .
Almost always they are due to heedlessness or carelessness .
It was heedlessness that got Whitefoot into one of the worst mishaps of his whole life .
He had been running and jumping all around the inside of the little sugar-house .
He loves to run and jump , and he had been having just the best time ever .
Finally Whitefoot ran along the old bench and jumped from the end of it for a box standing on end , which Farmer Brown 's boy sometimes used to sit on .
It was n't a very long jump , but somehow Whitefoot misjudged it .
He was heedless , and he did n't jump quite far enough .
Right beside that box was a tin pail half filled with sap .
Instead of landing on the box , Whitefoot landed with a splash in that pail of sap .
CHAPTER VII : Whitefoot Gives Up Hope Whitefoot had been in many tight places .
Yes , indeed , Whitefoot had been in many tight places .
He had had narrow escapes of all kinds .
But never had he felt so utterly hopeless as now .
The moment he landed in that sap , Whitefoot began to swim frantically .
He is n't a particularly good swimmer , but he could swim well enough to keep afloat for a while .
His first thought was to scramble up the side of the tin pail , but when he reached it and tried to fasten his sharp little claws into it in order to climb , he discovered that he could n't .
Sharp as they were , his little claws just slipped , and his struggles to get up only resulted in tiring him out and in plunging him wholly beneath the sap .
He came up choking and gasping .
Then round and round inside that pail he paddled , stopping every two or three seconds to try to climb up that hateful , smooth , shiny wall .
The more he tried to climb out , the more frightened he became .
He was in a perfect panic of fear .
He quite lost his head , did Whitefoot .
The harder he struggled , the more tired he became , and the greater was his danger of drowning .
Whitefoot squeaked pitifully .
He did n't want to drown .
Of course not .
He wanted to live .
But unless he could get out of that pail very soon , he would drown .
He knew it .
He knew that he could n't hold on much longer .
He knew that just as soon as he stopped paddling , he would sink .
Already he was so tired from his frantic efforts to escape that it seemed to him that he could n't hold out any longer .
But somehow he kept his legs moving , and so kept afloat .
Just why he kept struggling , Whitefoot could n't have told .
It was n't because he had any hope .
He did n't have the least bit of hope .
He knew now that he could n't climb the sides of that pail , and there was no other way of getting out .
Still he kept on paddling .
It was the only way to keep from drowning , and though he felt sure that he had got to drown at last , he just would n't until he actually had to .
And all the time Whitefoot squeaked hopelessly , despairingly , pitifully .
He did it without knowing that he did it , just as he kept paddling round and round .
CHAPTER VIII : The Rescue When Whitefoot made the heedless jump that landed him in a pail half filled with sap , no one else was in the little sugar-house .
Whitefoot was quite alone .
You see , Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown 's boy were out collecting sap from the trees , and Bowser the Hound was with them .
Farmer Brown 's boy was the first to return .
He came in just after Whitefoot had given up all hope .
He went at once to the fire to put more wood on .
As he finished this job he heard the faintest of little squeaks .
It was a very pitiful little squeak .
Farmer Brown 's boy stood perfectly still and listened .
He heard it again .
He knew right away that it was the voice of Whitefoot .
`` Hello ! ''
exclaimed Farmer Brown 's boy .
`` That sounds as if Whitefoot is in trouble of some kind .
I wonder where the little rascal is .
I wonder what can have happened to him .
I must look into this . ''
Again Farmer Brown 's boy heard that faint little squeak .
It was so faint that he could n't tell where it came from .
Hurriedly and anxiously he looked all over the little sugar-house , stopping every few seconds to listen for that pitiful little squeak .
It seemed to come from nowhere in particular .
Also it was growing fainter .
At last Farmer Brown 's boy happened to stand still close to that tin pail half filled with sap .
He heard the faint little squeak again and with it a little splash .
It was the sound of the little splash that led him to look down .
In a flash he understood what had happened .
He saw poor little Whitefoot struggling feebly , and even as he looked Whitefoot 's head went under .
He was very nearly drowned .
Stooping quickly , Farmer Brown 's boy grabbed Whitefoot 's long tail and pulled him out .
Whitefoot was so nearly drowned that he did n't have strength enough to even kick .
A great pity filled the eyes of Farmer Brown 's boy as he held Whitefoot 's head down and gently shook him .
He was trying to shake some of the sap out of Whitefoot .
It ran out of Whitefoot 's nose and out of his mouth .
Whitefoot began to gasp .
Then Farmer Brown 's boy spread his coat close by the fire , rolled Whitefoot up in his handkerchief and gently placed him on the coat .
For some time Whitefoot lay just gasping .
But presently his breath came easier , and after a while he was breathing naturally .
But he was too weak and tired to move , so he just lay there while Farmer Brown 's boy gently stroked his head and told him how sorry he was .
Little by little Whitefoot recovered his strength .
At last he could sit up , and finally he began to move about a little , although he was still wobbly on his legs .
Farmer Brown 's boy put some bits of food where Whitefoot could get them , and as he ate , Whitefoot 's beautiful soft eyes were filled with gratitude .
CHAPTER IX : Two Timid Persons Meet Thus always you will meet life 's test -- To do the thing you can do best .
-- Whitefoot .
Jumper the Hare sat crouched at the foot of a tree in the Green Forest .
Had you happened along there , you would not have seen him .
At least , I doubt if you would .
If you had seen him , you probably would n't have known it .
You see , in his white coat Jumper was so exactly the color of the snow that he looked like nothing more than a little heap of snow .
Just in front of Juniper was a little round hole .
He gave it no attention .
It did n't interest him in the least .
All through the Green Forest were little holes in the snow .
Jumper was so used to them that he seldom noticed them .
So he took no notice of this one until something moved down in that hole .
Jumper 's eyes opened a little wider and he watched .
A sharp little face with very bright eyes filled that little round hole .
Jumper moved just the tiniest bit , and in a flash that sharp little face with the bright eyes disappeared .
Jumper sat still and waited .
After a long wait the sharp little face with bright eyes appeared again .
`` Do n't be frightened , Whitefoot , '' said Jumper softly .
At the first word the sharp little face disappeared , but in a moment it was back , and the sharp little eyes were fixed on Jumper suspiciously .
After a long stare the suspicion left them , and out of the little round hole came trim little Whitefoot in a soft brown coat with white waistcoat and with white feet and a long , slim tail .
This winter he was not living in Farmer Brown 's sugarhouse .
`` Gracious , Jumper , how you did scare me ! ''
said he .
Jumper chuckled .
`` Whitefoot , I believe you are more timid than I am , '' he replied .
`` Why should n't I be ?
I 'm ever so much smaller , and I have more enemies , '' retorted Whitefoot .
`` It is true you are smaller , but I am not so sure that you have more enemies , '' replied Jumper thoughtfully .
`` It sometimes seems to me that I could n't have more , especially in winter . ''
`` Name them , '' commanded Whitefoot .
`` Hooty the Great Horned Owl , Yowler the Bob Cat , Old Man Coyote , Reddy Fox , Terror the Goshawk , Shadow the Weasel , Billy Mink . ''
Jumper paused .
`` Is that all ? ''
demanded Whitefoot .
`` Is n't that enough ? ''
retorted Jumper rather sharply .
`` I have all of those and Blacky the Crow and Butcher the Shrike and Sammy Jay in winter , and Buster Hear and Jimmy Skunk and several of the Snake family in summer , '' replied Whitefoot .
`` It seems to me sometimes as if I need eyes and ears all over me .
Night and day there is always some one hunting for poor little me .
And then some folks wonder why I am so timid .
If I were not as timid as I am , I would n't be alive now ; I would have been caught long ago .
Folks may laugh at me for being so easily frightened , but I do n't care .
That is what saves my life a dozen times a day . ''
Jumper looked interested .
`` I had n't thought of that , '' said he .
`` I 'm a very timid person myself , and sometimes I have been ashamed of being so easily frightened .
But come to think of it , I guess you are right ; the more timid I am , the longer I am likely to live . ''
Whitefoot suddenly darted into his hole .
Jumper did n't move , but his eyes widened with fear .
A great white bird had just alighted on a stump a short distance away .
It was Whitey the Snowy Owl , down from the Far North .
`` There is another enemy we both forgot , '' thought Jumper , and tried not to shiver .
CHAPTER X : The White Watchers Much may be gained by sitting still If you but have the strength of will .
-- Whitefoot .
Jumper the Hare crouched at the foot of a tree in the Green Forest , and a little way from him on a stump sat Whitey the Snowy Owl .
Had you been there to see them , both would have appeared as white as the snow around them unless you had looked very closely .
Then you might have seen two narrow black lines back of Jumper 's head .
They were the tips of his ears , for these remain black .
And near the upper part of the white mound which was Whitey you might have seen two round yellow spots , his eyes .
There they were for all the world like two little heaps of snow .
Jumper did n't move so much as a hair .
Whitey did n't move so much as a feather .
Both were waiting and watching .
Jumper did n't move because he knew that Whitey was there .
Whitey did n't move because he did n't want any one to know he was there , and did n't know that Jumper was there .
Jumper was sitting still because he was afraid .
Whitey was sitting still because he was hungry .
So there they sat , each in plain sight of the other but only one seeing the other .
This was because Juniper had been fortunate enough to see Whitey alight on that stump .
Jumper had been sitting still when Whitey arrived , and so those fierce yellow eyes had not yet seen him .
But had Jumper so much as lifted one of those long ears , Whitey would have seen , and his great claws would have been reaching for Jumper .
Jumper did n't want to sit still .
No , indeed !
He wanted to run .
You know it is on those long legs of his that Jumper depends almost wholly for safety .
But there are times for running and times for sitting still , and this was a time for sitting still .
He knew that Whitey did n't know that he was anywhere near .
But just the same it was hard , very hard to sit there with one he so greatly feared watching so near .
It seemed as if those fierce yellow eyes of Whitey must see him .
They seemed to look right through him .
They made him shake inside .
`` I want to run .
I want to run .
I want to run , '' Jumper kept saying to himself .
Then he would say , `` But I must n't .
I must n't .
I must n't . ''
And so Jumper did the hardest thing in the world , -- sat still and stared danger in the face .
He was sitting still to save his life .
Whitey the Snowy Owl was sitting still to catch a dinner .
I know that sounds queer , but it was so .
He knew that so long as he sat still , he was not likely to be seen .
It was for this purpose that Old Mother Nature had given him that coat of white .
In the Far North , which was his real home , everything is white for months and months , and any one dressed in a dark suit can be seen a long distance .
So Whitey had been given that white coat that he might have a better chance to catch food enough to keep him alive .
And he had learned how to make the best use of it .
Yes , indeed , he knew how to make the best use of it .
It was by doing just what he was doing now , -- sitting perfectly still .
Just before he had alighted on that stump he had seen something move at the entrance to a little round hole in the snow .
He was sure of it .
`` A Mouse , '' thought Whitey , and alighted on that stump .
`` He saw me flying , but he 'll forget about it after a while and will come out again .
He wo n't see me then if I do n't move .
And I wo n't move until he is far enough from that hole for me to catch him before he can get back to it . ''
So the two watchers in white sat without moving for the longest time , one watching for a dinner and the other watching the other watcher .
CHAPTER XI : Jumper Is In Doubt When doubtful what course to pursue 'T is sometimes best to nothing do .
-- Whitefoot .
Jumper the Hare was beginning to feel easier in his mind .
He was no longer shaking inside .
In fact , he was beginning to feel quite safe .
There he was in plain sight of Whitey the Snowy Owl , sitting motionless on a stump only a short distance away , yet Whitey had n't seen him .
Whitey had looked straight at him many times , but because Jumper had not moved so much as a hair Whitey had mistaken him for a little heap of snow .
`` All I have to do is to keep right on sitting perfectly still , and I 'll be as safe as if Whitey were nowhere about .
Yes , sir , I will , '' thought Jumper .
`` By and by he will become tired and fly away .
I do hope he 'll do that before Whitefoot comes out again .
If Whitefoot should come out , I could n't warn him because that would draw Whitey 's attention to me , and he would n't look twice at a Wood Mouse when there was a chance to get a Hare for his dinner .
`` This is a queer world .
It is so .
Old Mother Nature does queer things .
Here she has given me a white coat in winter so that I may not be easily seen when there is snow on the ground , and at the same time she has given one of those I fear most a white coat so that he may not be easily seen , either .
It certainly is a queer world . ''
Jumper forgot that Whitey was only a chance visitor from the Far North and that it was only once in a great while that he came down there , while up in the Far North where he belonged nearly everybody was dressed in white .
Jumper had n't moved once , but once in a while Whitey turned his great round head for a look all about in every direction .
But it was done in such a way that only eyes watching him sharply would have noticed it .
Most of the time he kept his fierce yellow eyes fixed on the little hole in the snow in which Whitefoot had disappeared .
You know Whitey can see by day quite as well as any other bird .
Jumper , having stopped worrying about himself , began to worry about Whitefoot .
He knew that Whitefoot had seen Whitey arrive on that stump and that was why he had dodged back into his hole and since then had not even poked his nose out .
But that had been so long ago that by this time Whitefoot must think that Whitey had gone on about his business , and Jumper expected to see Whitefoot appear any moment .
What Jumper did n't know was that Whitefoot 's bright little eyes had all the time been watching Whitey from another little hole in the snow some distance away .
A tunnel led from this little hole to the first little hole .
Suddenly off among the trees something moved .
At least , Jumper thought he saw something move .
Yes , there it was , a little black spot moving swiftly this way and that way over the snow .
Jumper stared very hard .
And then his heart seemed to jump right up in his throat .
It did so .
He felt as if he would choke .
That black spot was the tip end of a tail , the tail of a small , very slim fellow dressed all in white , the only other one in all the Green Forest who dresses all in white .
It was Shadow the Weasel !
In his white winter coat he is called Ermine .
He was running this way and that way , back and forth , with his nose to the snow .
He was hunting , and Jumper knew that sooner or later Shadow would find him .
Safety from Shadow lay in making the best possible use of those long legs of his , but to do that would bring Whitey the Owl swooping after him .
What to do Jumper did n't know .
And so he did nothing .
It happened to be the wisest thing he could do .
CHAPTER XII : Whitey The Owl Saves Jumper It often happens in the end An enemy may prove a friend .
-- Whitefoot .
Was ever any one in a worse position than Jumper the Hare ?
To move would be to give himself away to Whitey the Snowy Owl .
If he remained where he was very likely Shadow the Weasel would find him , and the result would be the same as if he were caught by Whitey the Owl .
Neither Whitey nor Shadow knew he was there , but it would be only a few minutes before one of them knew it .
At least , that is the way it looked to Jumper .
Whitey would n't know it unless he moved , but Shadow the Weasel would find his tracks , and his nose would lead him straight there .
Back and forth , back and forth , this way , that way and the other way , just a little distance off , Shadow was running with his nose to the snow .
He was hunting -- hunting for the scent of some one whom he could kill .
In a few minutes he would be sure to find where Jumper had been , and then his nose would lead him straight to that tree at the foot of which Jumper was crouching .
Nearer and nearer came Shadow .
He was slim and trim and did n't look at all terrible .
Yet there was no one in all the Green Forest more feared by the little people in fur , by Jumper , by Peter Rabbit , by Whitefoot , even by Chatterer the Red Squirrel .
`` Perhaps , '' thought Jumper , `` he wo n't find my scent after all .
Perhaps he 'll go in another direction . ''
But all the time Jumper felt in his bones that Shadow would find that scent .
`` When he does , I 'll run , '' said Jumper to himself .
`` I 'll have at least a chance to dodge Whitey .
I am afraid he will catch me , but I 'll have a chance .
I wo n't have any chance at all if Shadow finds me . ''
Suddenly Shadow stopped running and sat up to look about with fierce little eyes , all the time testing the air with his nose .
Jumper 's heart sank .
He knew that Shadow had caught a faint scent of some one .
Then Shadow began to run back and forth once more , but more carefully than before .
And then he started straight for where Jumper was crouching !
Jumper knew then that Shadow had found his trail .
Jumper drew a long breath and settled his long hind feet for a great jump , hoping to so take Whitey the Owl by surprise that he might be able to get away .
And as Jumper did this , he looked over to that stump where Whitey had been sitting so long .
Whitey was just leaving it on his great silent wings , and his fierce yellow eyes were fixed in the direction of Shadow the Weasel .
He had seen that moving black spot which was the tip of Shadow 's tail .
Jumper did n't have time to jump before Whitey was swooping down at Shadow .
So Juniper just kept still and watched with eyes almost popping from his head with fear and excitement .
Shadow had n't seen Whitey until just as Whitey was reaching for him with his great cruel claws .
Now if there is any one who can move more quickly than Shadow the Weasel I do n't know who it is .
Whitey 's claws closed on nothing but snow ; Shadow had dodged .
Then began a game , Whitey swooping and Shadow dodging , and all the time they were getting farther and farther from where Jumper was .
The instant it was safe to do so , Jumper took to his long heels and the way he disappeared , lipperty-lipperty-lip , was worth seeing .
Whitey the Snowy Owl had saved him from Shadow the Weasel and did n't know it .
An enemy had proved to be a friend .
CHAPTER XIII : Whitefoot Decides Quickly Your mind made up a certain way Be swift to act ; do not delay .
-- Whitefoot .
When Whitefoot had discovered Whitey the Snowy Owl , he had dodged down in the little hole in the snow beside which he had been sitting .
He had not been badly frightened .
But he was somewhat upset .
Yes , sir , he was somewhat upset .
You see , he had so many enemies to watch out for , and here was another .
`` Just as if I did n't have troubles enough without having this white robber to add to them , '' grumbled Whitefoot .
`` Why does n't he stay where he belongs , way up in the Far North ?
It must be that food is scarce up there .
Well , now that I know he is here , he will have to be smarter than I think he is to catch me .
I hope Jumper the Hare will have sense enough to keep perfectly still .
I 've sometimes envied him his long legs , but I guess I am better off than he is , at that .
Once he has been seen by an enemy , only those long legs of his can save him , but I have a hundred hiding-places down under the snow .
Whitey is watching the hole where I disappeared ; he thinks I 'll come out there again after a while .
I 'll fool him . ''
Whitefoot scampered along through a little tunnel and presently very cautiously peeped out of another little round hole in the snow .
Sure enough , there was Whitey the Snowy Owl back to him on a stump , watching the hole down which he had disappeared a few minutes before .
Whitefoot grinned .
Then he looked over to where he had last seen Jumper .
Jumper was still there ; it was clear that he had n't moved , and so Whitey had n't seen him .
Again Whitefoot grinned .
Then he settled himself to watch patiently for Whitey to become tired of watching that hole and fly away .
So it was that Whitefoot saw all that happened .
He saw Whitey suddenly sail out on silent wings from that stump and swoop with great claws reaching for some one .
And then he saw who that some one was , -- Shadow the Weasel !
He saw Shadow dodge in the very nick of time .
Then he watched Whitey swoop again and again as Shadow dodged this way and that way .
Finally both disappeared amongst the trees .
Then he turned just in time to see Jumper the Hare bounding away with all the speed of his wonderful , long legs .
Fear , the greatest fear he had known for a long time , took possession of Whitefoot .
`` Shadow the Weasel ! ''
he gasped and had such a thing been possible he certainly would have turned pale .
`` Whitey wo n't catch him ; Shadow is too quick for him .
And when Whitey has given up and flown away , Shadow will come back .
He probably had found the tracks of Jumper the Hare and he will come back .
I know him ; he 'll come back .
Jumper is safe enough from him now , because he has such a long start , but Shadow will be sure to find one of my holes in the snow .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
What shall I do ? ''
You see Shadow the Weasel is the one enemy that can follow Whitefoot into most of his hiding-places .
For a minute or two Whitefoot sat there , shaking with fright .
Then he made up his mind .
`` I 'll get away from here before he returns , '' thought Whitefoot .
`` I 've got to .
I 've spent a comfortable winter here so far , but there will be no safety for me here any longer .
I do n't know where to go , but anywhere will be better than here now . ''
Without waiting another second , Whitefoot scampered away .
And how he did hope that his scent would have disappeared by the time Shadow returned .
If it had n't , there would be little hope for him and he knew it .
CHAPTER XIV : Shadows Return He little gains and has no pride Who from his purpose turns aside .
-- Whitefoot .
Shadow the Weasel believes in persistence .
When he sets out to do a thing , he keeps at it until it is done or he knows for a certainty it can not be done .
He is not easily discouraged .
This is one reason he is so feared by the little people he delights to hunt .
They know that once he gets on their trail , they will be fortunate indeed if they escape him .
When Whitey the Snowy Owl swooped at him and so nearly caught him , he was not afraid as he dodged this way and that way .
Any other of the little people with the exception of his cousin , Billy Mink , would have been frightened half to death .
But Shadow was simply angry .
He was angry that any one should try to catch him .
He was still more angry because his hunt for Jumper the Hare was interfered with .
You see , he had just found Jumper 's trail when Whitey swooped at him .
So Shadow 's little eyes grew red with rage as he dodged this way and that and was gradually driven away from the place where he had found the trail of Jumper the Hare .
At last he saw a hole in an old log and into this he darted .
Whitey could n't get him there .
Whitey knew this and he knew , too , that waiting for Shadow to come out again would be a waste of time .
So Whitey promptly flew away .
Hardly had he disappeared when Shadow popped out of that hole , for he had been peeping out and watching Whitey .
Without a moment 's pause he turned straight back for the place where he had found the trail of Jumper the Hare .
He had no intention of giving up that hunt just because he had been driven away .
Straight to the very spot where Whitey had first swooped at him he ran , and there once more his keen little nose took up the trail of Jumper .
It led him straight to the foot of the tree where Jumper had crouched so long .
But , as you know , Jumper was n't there then .
Shadow ran in a circle and presently he found where Jumper had landed on the snow at the end of that first bound .
Shadow snarled .
He understood exactly what had happened .
`` Jumper was under that tree when that white robber from the Far North tried to catch me , and he took that chance to leave in a hurry .
I can tell that by the length of this jump .
Probably he is still going .
It is useless to follow him because he has too long a start , '' said Shadow , and he snarled again in rage and disappointment .
Then , for such is his way , he wasted no more time or thought on Jumper the Hare .
Instead he began to look for other trails .
So it was that he found one of the little holes of Whitefoot the Wood Mouse .
`` Ha !
So this is where Whitefoot has been living this winter ! ''
he exclaimed .
Once more his eyes glowed red , but this time with eagerness and the joy of the hunt .
He plunged down into that little hole in the snow .
Down there the scent of Whitefoot was strong .
Shadow followed it until it led out of another little hole in the snow .
But there he lost it .
You see , it was so long since Whitefoot had hurriedly left that the scent on the surface had disappeared .
Shadow ran swiftly this way and that way in a big circle , but he could n't find Whitefoot 's trail again .
Snarling with anger and disappointment , he returned to the little hole in the snow and vanished .
Then he followed all Whitefoot 's little tunnels .
He found Whitefoot 's nest .
He found his store of seeds .
But he did n't find Whitefoot .
`` He 'll come back , '' muttered Shadow , and curled up in Whitefoot 's nest to wait .
CHAPTER XV : Whitefoots Dreadful Journey Danger may be anywhere , So I expect it everywhere .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was terribly frightened .
Yes , sir , he was terribly frightened .
It was a long , long time since he had been as frightened as he now was .
He is used to frights , is Whitefoot .
He has them every day and every night , but usually they are sudden frights , quickly over and as quickly forgotten .
This fright was different .
You see Whitefoot had caught a glimpse of Shadow the Weasel .
And he knew that if Shadow returned he would be sure to find the little round holes in the snow that led down to Whitefoot 's private little tunnels underneath .
The only thing for Whitefoot to do was to get just as far from that place as he could before Shadow should return .
And so poor little Whitefoot started out on a journey that was to take him he knew not where .
All he could do was to go and go and go until he could find a safe hiding-place .
My , my , but that was a dreadful journey !
Every time a twig snapped , Whitefoot 's heart seemed to jump right up in his throat .
Every time he saw a moving shadow , and the branches of the trees moving in the wind were constantly making moving shadows on the snow , he dodged behind a tree trunk or under a piece of bark or wherever he could find a hiding-place .
You see , Whitefoot has so many enemies always looking for him that he hides whenever he sees anything moving .
When at home , he is forever dodging in and out of his hiding-places .
So , because everything was strange to him , and because of the great fear of Shadow the Weasel , he suspected everything that moved and every sound he heard .
For a long way no one saw him , for no one was about .
Yet all that way Whitefoot twisted and dodged and darted from place to place and was just as badly frightened as if there had been enemies all about .
`` Oh , dear !
Oh , dear me ! ''
he kept saying over and over to himself .
`` Wherever shall I go ?
Whatever shall I do ?
However shall I get enough to eat ?
I wo n't dare go back to get food from my little storehouses , and I shall have to live in a strange place where I wo n't know where to look for food .
I am getting tired .
My legs ache .
I 'm getting hungry .
I want my nice , warm , soft bed .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear me ! ''
But in spite of his frights , Whitefoot kept on .
You see , he was more afraid to stop than he was to go on .
He just had to get as far from Shadow the Weasel as he could .
Being such a little fellow , what would be a short distance for you or me is a long distance for Whitefoot .
And so that journey was to him very long indeed .
Of course , it seemed longer because of the constant frights which came one right after another .
It really was a terrible journey .
Yet if he had only known it , there was n't a thing along the whole way to be afraid of .
You know it often happens that people are frightened more by what they do n't know than by what they do know .
CHAPTER XVI : Whitefoot Climbs A Tree I 'd rather be frightened With no cause for fear Than fearful of nothing When danger is near .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot kept on going and going .
Every time he thought that he was so tired he must stop , he would think of Shadow the Weasel and then go on again .
By and by he became so tired that not even the thought of Shadow the Weasel could make him go much farther .
So he began to look about for a safe hiding-place in which to rest .
Now the home which he had left had been a snug little room beneath the roots of a certain old stump .
There he had lived for a long time in the greatest comfort .
Little tunnels led to his storehouses and up to the surface of the snow .
It had been a splendid place and one in which he had felt perfectly safe until Shadow the Weasel had appeared .
Had you seen him playing about there , you would have thought him one of the little people of the ground , like his cousin Danny Meadow Mouse .
But Whitefoot is quite as much at home in trees as on the ground .
In fact , he is quite as much at home in trees as is Chatterer the Red Squirrel , and a lot more at home in trees than is Striped Chipmunk , although Striped Chipmunk belongs to the Squirrel family .
So now that he must find a hiding-place , Whitefoot decided that he would feel much safer in a tree than on the ground .
`` If only I can find a hollow tree , '' whimpered Whitefoot .
`` I will feel ever so much safer in a tree than hiding in or near the ground in a strange place . ''
So Whitefoot began to look for a dead tree .
You see , he knew that there was more likely to be a hollow in a dead tree than in a living tree .
By and by he came to a tall , dead tree .
He knew it was a dead tree , because there was no bark on it .
But , of course , he could n't tell whether or not that tree was hollow .
I mean he could n't tell from the ground .
`` Oh , dear ! ''
he whimpered again .
`` Oh , dear !
I suppose I will have to climb this , and I am so tired .
It ought to be hollow .
There ought to be splendid holes in it .
It is just the kind of a tree that Drummer the Woodpecker likes to make his house in .
I shall be terribly disappointed if I do n't find one of his houses somewhere in it , but I wish I had n't got to climb it to find out .
Well , here goes . ''
He looked anxiously this way .
He looked anxiously that way .
He looked anxiously the other way .
In fact , he looked anxiously every way .
But he saw no one and nothing to be afraid of , and so he started up the tree .
He was half-way up when , glancing down , he saw a shadow moving across the snow .
Once more Whitefoot 's heart seemed to jump right up in his throat .
That shadow was the shadow of some one flying .
There could n't be the least bit of doubt about it .
Whitefoot flattened himself against the side of the tree and peeked around it .
He was just in time to see a gray and black and white bird almost the size of Sammy Jay alight in the very next tree .
He had come along near the ground and then risen sharply into the tree .
His bill was black , and there was just a tiny hook on the end of it .
Whitefoot knew who it was .
It was Butcher the Shrike .
Whitefoot shivered .
CHAPTER XVII : Whitefoot Finds A Hole Just In Time Just in time , not just too late , Will make you master of your fate .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot , half-way up that dead tree , flattened himself against the trunk and , with his heart going pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat with fright , peered around the tree at an enemy he had not seen for so long that he had quite forgotten there was such a one .
It was Butcher the Shrike .
Often he is called just Butcher Bird .
He did not look at all terrible .
He was not quite as big as Sammy Jay .
He had no terrible claws like the Hawks and Owls .
There was a tiny hook at the end of his black bill , but it was n't big enough to look very dreadful .
But you can not always judge a person by looks , and Whitefoot knew that Butcher was one to be feared .
So his heart went pit-a-pat , pit-a-pat as he wondered if Butcher had seen him .
He did n't have to wait long to find out .
Butcher flew to a tree back of Whitefoot and then straight at him .
Whitefoot dodged around to the other side of the tree .
Then began a dreadful game .
At least , it was dreadful to Whitefoot .
This way and that way around the trunk of that tree he dodged , while Butcher did his best to catch him .
Whitefoot would not have minded this so much , had he not been so tired , and had he known of a hiding-place close at hand .
But he was tired , very tired , for you remember he had had what was a very long and terrible journey to him .
He had felt almost too tired to climb that tree in the first place to see if it had any holes in it higher up .
Now he did n't know whether to keep on going up or to go down .
Two or three times he dodged around the tree without doing either .
Then he decided to go up .
Now Butcher was enjoying this game of dodge .
If he should catch Whitefoot , he would have a good dinner .
If he did n't catch Whitefoot , he would simply go hungry a little longer .
So you see , there was a very big difference in the feelings of Whitefoot and Butcher .
Whitefoot had his life to lose , while Butcher had only a dinner to lose .
Dodging this way and dodging that way , Whitefoot climbed higher and higher .
Twice he whisked around that tree trunk barely in time .
All the time he was growing more and more tired , and more and more discouraged .
Supposing he should find no hole in that tree !
`` There must be one .
There must be one , '' he kept saying over and over to himself , to keep his courage up .
`` I ca n't keep dodging much longer .
If I do n't find a hole pretty soon , Butcher will surely catch me .
Oh , dear !
Oh , dear ! ''
Just above Whitefoot was a broken branch .
Only the stub of it remained .
The next time he dodged around the trunk he found himself just below that stub .
Oh , joy !
There , close under that stub , was a round hole .
Whitefoot did n't hesitate a second .
He did n't wait to find out whether or not any one was in that hole .
He did n't even think that there might be some one in there .
With a tiny little squeak of relief he darted in .
He was just in time .
He was just in the nick of time .
Butcher struck at him and just missed him as he disappeared in that hole .
Whitefoot had saved his life and Butcher had missed a dinner .
CHAPTER XVIII : An Unpleasant Surprise Be careful never to be rude Enough to thoughtlessly intrude .
-- Whitefoot .
If ever anybody in the Great World felt relief and thankfulness , it was Whitefoot when he dodged into that hole in the dead tree just as Butcher the Shrike all but caught him .
For a few minutes he did nothing but pant , for he was quite out of breath .
`` I was right , '' he said over and over to himself , `` I was right .
I was sure there must be a hole in this tree .
It is one of the old houses of Drummer the Woodpecker .
Now I am safe . ''
Presently he peeped out .
He wanted to see if Butcher was watching outside .
He was just in time to see Butcher 's gray and black and white coat disappearing among the trees .
Butcher was not foolish enough to waste time watching for Whitefoot to come out .
Whitefoot sighed happily .
For the first time since he had started on his dreadful journey he felt safe .
Nothing else mattered .
He was hungry , but he did n't mind that .
He was willing to go hungry for the sake of being safe .
Whitefoot watched until Butcher was out of sight .
Then he turned to see what that house was like .
Right away he discovered that there was a soft , warm bed in it .
It was made of leaves , grass , moss , and the lining of bark .
It was a very fine bed indeed .
`` My , my , my , but I am lucky , '' said Whitefoot to himself .
`` I wonder who could have made this fine bed .
I certainly shall sleep comfortably here .
Goodness knows , I need a rest .
If I can find food enough near here , I 'll make this my home .
I could n't ask for a better one . ''
Chuckling happily , Whitefoot began to pull away the top of that bed so as to get to the middle of it .
And then he got a surprise .
It was an unpleasant surprise .
It was a most unpleasant surprise .
There was some one in that bed !
Yes , sir , there was some one curled up in a little round ball in the middle of that fine bed .
It was some one with a coat of the softest , finest fur .
Can you guess who it was ?
It was Timmy the Flying Squirrel .
It seemed to Whitefoot as if his heart flopped right over .
You see at first he did n't recognize Timmy .
Whitefoot is himself so very timid that his thought was to run ; to get out of there as quickly as possible .
But he had no place to run to , so he hesitated .
Never in all his life had Whitefoot had a greater disappointment .
He knew now that this splendid house was not for him .
Timmy the Flying Squirrel did n't move .
He remained curled up in a soft little ball .
He was asleep .
Whitefoot remembered that Timmy sleeps during the day and seldom comes out until the Black Shadows come creeping out from the Purple Hills at the close of day .
Whitefoot felt easier in his mind then .
Timmy was so sound asleep that he knew nothing of his visitor .
And so Whitefoot felt safe in staying long enough to get rested .
Then he would go out and hunt for another home .
So down in the middle of that soft , warm bed Timmy the Flying Squirrel , curled up in a little round ball with his flat tail wrapped around him , slept peacefully , and on top of that soft bed Whitefoot the Wood Mouse rested and wondered what he should do next .
Not in all the Green Forest could two more timid little people be found than the two in that old home of Drummer the Woodpecker .
CHAPTER XIX : Whitefoot Finds A Home At Last True independence he has known Whose home has been his very own .
-- Whitefoot .
Curled up in his splendid warm bed , Timmy the Flying Squirrel slept peacefully .
He did n't know he had a visitor .
He did n't know that on top of that same bed lay Whitefoot the Wood Mouse .
Whitefoot was n't asleep .
No , indeed !
Whitefoot was too worried to sleep .
He knew he could n't stay in that fine house because it belonged to Timmy .
He knew that as soon as Timmy awoke , he , Whitefoot , would have to get out .
Where should he go ?
He wished he knew .
How he did long for the old home he had left .
But when he thought of that , he remembered Shadow the Weasel .
It was better to be homeless than to feel that at any minute Shadow the Weasel might appear .
It was getting late in the afternoon .
Before long , jolly , round , red Mr. Sun would go to bed behind the Purple Hills , and the Black Shadows would come creeping through the Green Forest .
Then Timmy the Flying Squirrel would awake .
`` It wo n't do for me to be here then , '' said Whitefoot to himself .
`` I must find some other place before he wakes .
If only I knew this part of the Green Forest I might know where to go .
As it is , I shall have to go hunt for a new home and trust to luck .
Did ever a poor little Mouse have so much trouble ? ''
After awhile Whitefoot felt rested and peeped out of the doorway .
No enemy was to be seen anywhere .
Whitefoot crept out and climbed a little higher up in the tree .
Presently he found another hole .
He peeped inside and listened long and carefully .
He did n't intend to make the mistake of going into another house where some one might be living .
At last , sure that there was no one in there , he crept in .
Then he made a discovery .
There were beech nuts in there and there were seeds .
It was a storehouse !
Whitefoot knew at once that it must be Timmy 's storehouse .
Right away he realized how very , very hungry he was .
Of course , he had no right to any of those seeds or nuts .
Certainly not !
That is , he would n't have had any right had he been a boy or girl .
But it is the law of the Green Forest that whatever any one finds he may help himself to if he can .
So Whitefoot began to fill his empty little stomach with some of those seeds .
He ate and ate and ate and quite forgot all his troubles .
Just as he felt that he had n't room for another seed , he heard the sound of claws outside on the trunk of the tree .
In a flash he knew that Timmy the Flying Squirrel was awake , and that it would n't do to be found in there by him .
In a jiffy Whitefoot was outside .
He was just in time .
Timmy was almost up to the entrance .
`` Hi , there ! ''
cried Timmy .
`` What were you doing in my storehouse ? ''
`` I -- I -- I was looking for a new home , '' stammered Whitefoot .
`` You mean you were stealing some of my food , '' snapped Timmy suspiciously .
`` I -- I -- I did take a few seeds because I was almost starved .
But truly I was looking for a new home , '' replied Whitefoot .
`` What was the matter with your old home ? ''
demanded Timmy .
Then Whitefoot told Timmy all about how he had been obliged to leave his old home because of Shadow the Weasel , of the terrible journey he had had , and how he did n't know where to go or what to do .
Timmy listened suspiciously at first , but soon he made up his mind that Whitefoot was telling the truth .
The mere mention of Shadow the Weasel made him very sober .
He scratched his nose thoughtfully .
`` Over in that tall , dead stub you can see from here is an old home of mine , '' said he .
`` No one lives in it now .
I guess you can live there until you can find a better home .
But remember to keep away from my storehouse . ''
So it was that Whitefoot found a new home .
CHAPTER XX : Whitefoot Makes Himself At Home Look not too much on that behind Lest to the future you be blind .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot did n't wait to be told twice of that empty house .
He thanked Timmy and then scampered over to that stub as fast as his legs would take him .
Up the stub he climbed , and near the top he found a little round hole .
Timmy had said no one was living there now , and so Whitefoot did n't hesitate to pop inside .
There was even a bed in there .
It was an old bed , but it was dry and soft .
It was quite clear that no one had been in there for a long time .
With a little sigh of pure happiness , Whitefoot curled up in that bed for the sleep he so much needed .
His stomach was full , and once more he felt safe .
The very fact that this was an old house in which no one had lived for a long time made it safer .
Whitefoot knew that those who lived in that part of the Green Forest probably knew that no one lived in that old stub , and so no one was likely to visit it .
He was so tired that he slept all night .
Whitefoot is one of those who sleeps when he feels sleepy , whether it be by day or night .
He prefers the night to be out and about in , because he feels safer then , but he often comes out by day .
So when he awoke in the early morning , he promptly went out for a look about and to get acquainted with his new surroundings .
Just a little way off was the tall , dead tree in which Timmy the Flying Squirrel had his home .
Timmy was nowhere to be seen .
You see , he had been out most of the night and had gone to bed to sleep through the day .
Whitefoot thought longingly of the good things in Timmy 's storehouse in that same tree , but decided that it would be wisest to keep away from there .
So he scurried about to see what he could find for a breakfast .
It did n't take him long to find some pine cones in which a few seeds were still clinging .
These would do nicely .
Whitefoot ate what he wanted and then carried some of them back to his new home in the tall stub .
Then he went to work to tear to pieces the old bed in there and make it over to suit himself .
It was an old bed of Timmy the Flying Squirrel , for you know this was Timmy 's old house .
Whitefoot soon had the bed made over to suit him .
And when this was done he felt quite at home .
Then he started out to explore all about within a short distance of the old stub .
He wanted to know every hole and every possible hiding-place all around , for it is on such knowledge that his life depends .
When at last he returned home he was very well satisfied .
`` It is going to be a good place to live , '' said he to himself .
`` There are plenty of hiding-places and I am going to be able to find enough to eat .
It will be very nice to have Timmy the Flying Squirrel for a neighbor .
I am sure he and I will get along together very nicely .
I do n't believe Shadow the Weasel , even if he should come around here , would bother to climb up this old stub .
He probably would expect to find me living down in the ground or close to it , anyway .
I certainly am glad that I am such a good climber .
Now if Buster Bear does n't come along in the spring and pull this old stub over , I 'll have as fine a home as any one could ask for . ''
And then , because happily it is the way with the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows , Whitefoot forgot all about his terrible journey and the dreadful time he had had in finding his new home .
CHAPTER XXI : Whitefoot Envies Timmy A useless thing is envy ; A foolish thing to boot .
Why should a Fox who has a bark Want like an Owl to hoot ?
Whitefoot was beginning to feel quite at home .
He would have been wholly contented but for one thing , -- he had no well-filled storehouse .
This meant that each day he must hunt for his food .
It was n't that Whitefoot minded hunting for food .
He would have done that anyway , even though he had had close at hand a store-house with plenty in it .
But he would have felt easier in his mind .
He would have had the comfortable feeling that if the weather turned so bad that he could not easily get out and about , he would not have to go hungry .
But Whitefoot is a happy little fellow and wisely made the best of things .
At first he came out very little by day .
He knew that there were many sharp eyes watching for him , and that he was more likely to be seen in the light of day than when the Black Shadows had crept all through the Green Forest .
He would peek out of his doorway and watch for chance visitors in the daytime .
Twice he saw Butcher the Shrike alight a short distance from the tree in which Timmy lived .
He knew Butcher had not forgotten that he had chased a badly frightened Mouse into a hole in that tree .
Once he saw Whitey the Snowy Owl and so knew that Whitey had not yet returned to the Far North .
Once Reddy Fox trotted along right past the foot of the old stub in which Whitefoot lived , and did n't even suspect that he was anywhere near .
Twice he saw Old Man Coyote trotting past , and once Terror the Goshawk alighted on that very stub , and sat there for half an hour .
So Whitefoot formed the habit of doing just what Timmy the Flying Squirrel did ; he remained in his house for most of the day and came out when the Black Shadows began to creep in among the trees .
Timmy came out about the same time , and they had become the best of friends .
Now Whitefoot is not much given to envying others , but as night after night he watched Timmy a little envy crept into his heart in spite of all he could do .
Timmy would nimbly climb to the top of a tree and then jump .
Down he would come in a long beautiful glide , for all the world as if he were sliding on the air .
The first time Whitefoot saw him do it he held his breath .
He really did n't know what to make of it .
The nearest tree to the one from which Timmy had jumped was so far away that it did n't seem possible any one without wings could reach it without first going to the ground .
`` Oh ! ''
squeaked Whitefoot .
`` Oh !
he 'll kill himself !
He surely will kill himself !
He 'll break his neck ! ''
But Timmy did nothing of the kind .
He sailed down , down , down and alighted on that distant tree a foot or two from the bottom ; and without stopping a second scampered up to the top of that tree and once more jumped .
Whitefoot had hard work to believe his own eyes .
Timmy seemed to be jumping just for the pleasure of it .
As a matter of fact , he was .
He was getting his evening exercise .
Whitefoot sighed .
`` I wish I could jump like that , '' said he to himself .
`` I would n't ever be afraid of anybody if I could jump like that .
I envy Timmy .
I do so . ''
CHAPTER XXII : Timmy Proves To Be A True Neighbor He proves himself a neighbor true Who seeks a kindly deed to do .
-- Whitefoot .
Occasionally Timmy the Flying Squirrel came over to visit Whitefoot .
If Whitefoot was in his house he always knew when Timmy arrived .
He would hear a soft thump down near the bottom of the tall stub .
He would know instantly that thump was made by Timmy striking the foot of the stub after a long jump from the top of a tree .
Whitefoot would poke his head out of his doorway and there , sure enough , would be Timmy scrambling up towards him .
Whitefoot had grown to admire Timmy with all his might .
It seemed to him that Timmy was the most wonderful of all the people he knew .
You see there was none of the others who could jump as Timmy could .
Timmy on his part enjoyed having Whitefoot for a neighbor .
Few of the little people of the Green Forest are more timid than Timmy the Flying Squirrel , but here was one beside whom Timmy actually felt bold .
It was such a new feeling that Timmy enjoyed it .
So it was that in the dusk of early evening , just after the Black Shadows had come creeping out from the Purple Hills across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest , these two little neighbors would start out to hunt for food .
Whitefoot never went far from the tall , dead stub in which he was now living .
He did n't dare to .
He wanted to be where at the first sign of danger he could scamper back there to safety .
Timmy would go some distance , but he was seldom gone long .
He liked to be where he could watch and talk with Whitefoot .
You see Timmy is very much like other people , -- he likes to gossip a little .
One evening Whitefoot had found it hard work to find enough food to fill his stomach .
He had kept going a little farther and a little farther from home .
Finally he was farther from it than he had ever been before .
Timmy had filled his stomach and from near the top of a tree was watching Whitefoot .
Suddenly what seemed like a great Black Shadow floated right over the tree in which Timmy was sitting , and stopped on the top of a tall , dead tree .
It was Hooty the Owl , and it was simply good fortune that Timmy happened to see him .
Timmy did not move .
He knew that he was safe so long as he kept perfectly still .
He knew that Hooty did n't know he was there .
Unless he moved , those great eyes of Hooty 's , wonderful as they were , would not see him .
Timmy looked over to where he had last seen Whitefoot .
There he was picking out seeds from a pine cone on the ground .
The trunk of a tree was between him and Hooty .
But Timmy knew that Whitefoot had n't seen Hooty , and that any minute he might run out from behind that tree .
If he did Hooty would see him , and silently as a shadow would swoop down and catch him .
What was to be done ?
`` It 's no business of mine , '' said Timmy to himself .
`` Whitefoot must look out for himself .
It is no business of mine at all .
Perhaps Hooty will fly away before Whitefoot moves .
I do n't want anything to happen to Whitefoot , but if something does , it will be his own fault ; he should keep better watch . ''
For a few minutes nothing happened .
Then Whitefoot finished the last seed in that cone and started to look for more .
Timmy knew that in a moment Hooty would see Whitefoot .
What do you think Timmy did ?
He jumped .
Yes , sir , he jumped .
Down , down , down , straight past the tree on which sat Hooty the Owl , Timmy sailed .
Hooty saw him .
Of course .
He could n't help but see him .
He spread his great wings and was after Timmy in an instant .
Timmy struck near the foot of a tree and without wasting a second darted around to the other side .
He was just in time .
Hooty was already reaching for him .
Up the tree ran Timmy and jumped again .
Again Hooty was too late .
And so Timmy led Hooty the Owl away from Whitefoot the Wood Mouse .
CHAPTER XXIII : Whitefoot Spends A Dreadful Night Pity those who suffer fright In the dark and stilly night .
-- Whitefoot .
One night of his life Whitefoot will never forget so long as he lives .
Even now it makes him shiver just to think of it .
Yes , sir , he shivers even now whenever he thinks of that night .
The Black Shadows had come early that evening , so that it was quite dusk when Whitefoot crept out of his snug little bed and climbed up to the round hole which was the doorway of his home .
He had just poked his nose out that little round doorway when there was the most terrible sound .
It seemed to him as if it was in his very ears , so loud and terrible was it .
It frightened him so that he simply let go and tumbled backward down inside his house .
Of course it did n't hurt him any , for he landed on his soft bed .
`` Whooo-hoo-hoo , whooo-hoo ! ''
came that terrible sound again , and Whitefoot shook until his little teeth rattled .
At least , that is the way it seemed to him .
It was the voice of Hooty the Owl , and Whitefoot knew that Hooty was sitting on the top of that very stub .
He was , so to speak , on the roof of Whitefoot 's house .
Now in all the Green Forest there is no sound that strikes terror to the hearts of the little people of feathers and fur equal to the hunting call of Hooty the Owl .
Hooty knows this .
No one knows it better than he does .
That is why he uses it .
He knows that many of the little people are asleep , safely hidden away .
He knows that it would be quite useless for him to simply look for them .
He would starve before he could find a dinner in that way .
But he knows that any one wakened from sleep in great fright is sure to move , and if they do this they are almost equally sure to make some little sound .
His ears are so wonderful that they can catch the faintest sound and tell exactly where it comes from .
So he uses that terrible hunting cry to frighten the little people and make them move .
Now Whitefoot knew that he was safe .
Hooty could n't possibly get at him , even should he find out that he was in there .
There was nothing to fear , but just the same , Whitefoot shivered and shook and jumped almost out of his skin every time that Hooty hooted .
He just could n't help it .
`` He ca n't get me .
I know he ca n't get me .
I 'm perfectly safe .
I 'm just as safe as if he were miles away .
There 's nothing to be afraid of .
It is silly to be afraid .
Probably Hooty does n't even know I am inside here .
Even if he does , it does n't really matter . ''
Whitefoot said these things to himself over and over again .
Then Hooty would send out that fierce , terrible hunting call and Whitefoot would jump and shake just as before .
After awhile all was still .
Gradually Whitefoot stopped trembling .
He guessed that Hooty had flown away .
Still he remained right where he was for a very long time .
He did n't intend to foolishly take any chances .
So he waited and waited and waited .
At last he was sure that Hooty had left .
Once more he climbed up to his little round doorway and there he waited some time before poking even his nose outside .
Then , just as he had made up his mind to go out , that terrible sound rang out again , and just as before he tumbled heels over head down on his bed .
Whitefoot did n't go out that night at all .
It was a moonlight night and just the kind of a night to be out .
Instead Whitefoot lay in his little bed and shivered and shook , for all through that long night every once in a while Hooty the Owl would hoot from the top of that stub .
CHAPTER XXIV : Whitefoot The Wood Mouse Is Unhappy Unhappiness without a cause you never , never find ; It may be in the stomach , or it may be in the mind .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse should have been happy , but he was n't .
Winter had gone and sweet Mistress Spring had brought joy to all the Green Forest .
Every one was happy , Whitefoot no less so than his neighbors at first .
Up from the Sunny South came the feathered friends and at once began planning new homes .
Twitterings and songs filled the air .
Joy was everywhere .
Food became plentiful , and Whitefoot became sleek and fat .
That is , he became as fat as a lively Wood Mouse ever does become .
None of his enemies had discovered his new home , and he had little to worry about .
But by and by Whitefoot began to feel less joyous .
Day by day he grew more and more unhappy .
He no longer took pleasure in his fine home .
He began to wander about for no particular reason .
He wandered much farther from home than he had ever been in the habit of doing .
At times he would sit and listen , but what he was listening for he did n't know .
`` There is something the matter with me , and I do n't know what it is , '' said Whitefoot to himself forlornly .
`` It ca n't be anything I have eaten .
I have nothing to worry about .
Yet there is something wrong with me .
I 'm losing my appetite .
Nothing tastes good any more .
I want something , but I do n't know what it is I want . ''
He tried to tell his troubles to his nearest neighbor , Timmy the Flying Squirrel , but Timmy was too busy to listen .
When Peter Rabbit happened along , Whitefoot tried to tell him .
But Peter himself was too happy and too eager to learn all the news in the Green Forest to listen .
No one had any interest in Whitefoot 's troubles .
Every one was too busy with his own affairs .
So day by day Whitefoot the Wood Mouse grew more and more unhappy , and when the dusk of early evening came creeping through the Green Forest , he sat about and moped instead of running about and playing as he had been in the habit of doing .
The beautiful song of Melody the Wood Thrush somehow filled him with sadness instead of with the joy he had always felt before .
The very happiness of those about him seemed to make him more unhappy .
Once he almost decided to go hunt for another home , but somehow he could n't get interested even in this .
He did start out , but he had not gone far before he had forgotten all about what he had started for .
Always he had loved to run about and climb and jump for the pure pleasure of it , but now he no longer did these things .
He was unhappy , was Whitefoot .
Yes , sir , he was unhappy ; and for no cause at all so far as he could see .
CHAPTER XXV : Whitefoot Finds Out What The Matter Was Pity the lonely , for deep in the heart Is an ache that no doctor can heal by his art .
-- Whitefoot .
Of all the little people of the Green Forest Whitefoot seemed to be the only one who was unhappy .
And because he did n't know why he felt so he became day by day more unhappy .
Perhaps I should say that night by night he became more unhappy , for during the brightness of the day he slept most of the time .
`` There is something wrong , something wrong , '' he would say over and over to himself .
`` It must be with me , because everybody else is happy , and this is the happiest time of all the year .
I wish some one would tell me what ails me .
I want to be happy , but somehow I just ca n't be . ''
One evening he wandered a little farther from home than usual .
He was n't going anywhere in particular .
He had nothing in particular to do .
He was just wandering about because somehow he could n't remain at home .
Not far away Melody the Wood Thrush was pouring out his beautiful evening song .
Whitefoot stopped to listen .
Somehow it made him more unhappy than ever .
Melody stopped singing for a few moments .
It was just then that Whitefoot heard a faint sound .
It was a gentle drumming .
Whitefoot pricked up his ears and listened .
There it was again .
He knew instantly how that sound was made .
It was made by dainty little feet beating very fast on an old log .
Whitefoot had drummed that way himself many times .
It was soft , but clear , and it lasted only a moment .
Right then something very strange happened to Whitefoot .
Yes , sir , something very strange happened to Whitefoot .
All in a flash he felt better .
At first he did n't know why .
He just did , that was all .
Without thinking what he was doing , he began to drum himself .
Then he listened .
At first he heard nothing .
Then , soft and low , came that drumming sound again .
Whitefoot replied to it .
All the time he kept feeling better .
He ran a little nearer to the place from which that drumming sound had come and then once more drummed .
At first he got no reply .
Then in a few minutes he heard it again , only this time it came from a different place .
Whitefoot became quite excited .
He knew that that drumming was done by another Wood Mouse , and all in a flash it came over him what had been the matter with him .
`` I have been lonely ! ''
exclaimed Whitefoot .
`` That is all that has been the trouble with me .
I have been lonely and did n't know it .
I wonder if that other Wood Mouse has felt the same way . ''
Again he drummed and again came that soft reply .
Once more Whitefoot hurried in the direction of it , and once more he was disappointed when the next reply came from a different place .
By now he was getting quite excited .
He was bound to find that other Wood Mouse .
Every time he heard that drumming , funny little thrills ran all over him .
He did n't know why .
They just did , that was all .
He simply must find that other Wood Mouse .
He forgot everything else .
He did n't even notice where he was going .
He would drum , then wait for a reply .
As soon as he heard it , he would scamper in the direction of it , and then pause to drum again .
Sometimes the reply would be very near , then again it would be so far away that a great fear would fill Whitefoot 's heart that the stranger was running away .
CHAPTER XXVI : Love Fills The Heart Of Whitefoot Joyous all the winds that blow To the heart with love aglow .
-- Whitefoot .
It was a wonderful game of hide-and-seek that Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was playing in the dusk of early evening .
Whitefoot was `` it '' all the time .
That is , he was the one who had to do all the hunting .
Just who he was hunting for he did n't know .
He knew it was another Wood Mouse , but it was a stranger , and do what he would , he could n't get so much as a glimpse of this little stranger .
He would drum with his feet and after a slight pause there would be an answering drum .
Then Whitefoot would run as fast as he could in that direction only to find no one at all .
Then he would drum again and the reply would come from another direction .
Every moment Whitefoot became more excited .
He forgot everything , even danger , in his desire to see that little drummer .
Once or twice he actually lost his temper in his disappointment .
But this was only for a moment .
He was too eager to find that little drummer to be angry very long .
At last there came a time when there was no reply to his drumming .
He drummed and listened , then drummed again and listened .
Nothing was to be heard .
There was no reply .
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
All the old lonesomeness crept over him again .
He did n't know which way to turn to look for that stranger .
When he had drummed until he was tired , he sat on the end of an old log , a perfect picture of disappointment .
He was so disappointed that he could have cried if it would have done any good .
Just as he had about made up his mind that there was nothing to do but to try to find his way home , his keen little ears caught the faintest rustle of dry leaves .
Instantly Whitefoot was alert and watchful .
Long ago he had learned to be suspicious of rustling leaves .
They might have been rustled by the feet of an enemy stealing up on him .
No Wood Mouse who wants to live long is ever heedless of rustling leaves .
As still as if he could n't move , Whitefoot sat staring at the place from which that faint sound had seemed to come .
For two or three minutes he heard and saw nothing .
Then another leaf rustled a little bit to one side .
Whitefoot turned like a flash , his feet gathered under him ready for a long jump for safety .
At first he saw nothing .
Then he became aware of two bright , soft little eyes watching him .
He stared at them very hard and then all over him crept those funny thrills he had felt when he had first heard the drumming of the stranger .
He knew without being told that those eyes belonged to the little drummer with whom he had been playing hide and seek so long .
Whitefoot held his breath , he was so afraid that those eyes would vanish .
Finally he rather timidly jumped down from the log and started toward those two soft eyes .
They vanished .
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
He was tempted to rush forward , but he did n't .
He sat still .
There was a slight rustle off to the right .
A little ray of moonlight made its way down through the branches of the trees just there , and in the middle of the light spot it made sat a timid little person .
It seemed to Whitefoot that he was looking at the most beautiful Wood Mouse in all the Great World .
Suddenly he felt very shy and timid himself .
`` Who -- who -- who are you ? ''
he stammered .
`` I am little Miss Dainty , '' replied the stranger bashfully .
Right then and there Whitefoot 's heart was filled so full of something that it seemed as if it would burst .
It was love .
All in that instant he knew that he had found the most wonderful thing in all the Great World , which of course is love .
He knew that he just could n't live without little Miss Dainty .
CHAPTER XXVII : Mr. And Mrs. Whitefoot When all is said and all is done 'T is only love of two makes one .
-- Whitefoot .
Little Miss Dainty , the most beautiful and wonderful Wood Mouse in all the Great World , according to Whitefoot , was very shy and very timid .
It took Whitefoot a long time to make her believe that he really could n't live without her .
At least , she pretended not to believe it .
If the truth were known , little Miss Dainty felt just the same way about Whitefoot .
But Whitefoot did n't know this , and I am afraid she teased him a great deal before she told him that she loved him just as he loved her .
But at last little Miss Dainty shyly admitted that she loved Whitefoot just as much as he loved her and was willing to become Mrs. Whitefoot .
Secretly she thought Whitefoot the most wonderful Wood Mouse in the Great World , but she did n't tell him so .
The truth is , she made him feel as if she were doing him a great favor .
As for Whitefoot , he was so happy that he actually tried to sing .
Yes , sir , Whitefoot tried to sing , and he really did very well for a Mouse .
He was ready and eager to do anything that Mrs. Whitefoot wanted to do .
Together they scampered about in the moonlight , hunting for good things to eat , and poking their inquisitive little noses into every little place they could find .
Whitefoot forgot that he had ever been sad and lonely .
He raced about and did all sorts of funny things from pure joy , but he never once forgot to watch out for danger .
In fact he was more watchful than ever , for now he was watching for Mrs. Whitefoot as well as for himself .
At last Whitefoot rather timidly suggested that they should go see his fine home in a certain hollow stub .
Mrs. Whitefoot insisted that they should go to her home .
Whitefoot agreed on condition that she would afterwards visit his home .
So together they went back to Mrs. Whitefoot 's home .
Whitefoot pretended that he liked it very much , but in his heart he thought his own home was very much better , and he felt quite sure that Mrs. Whitefoot would agree with him once she had seen it .
But Mrs. Whitefoot was very well satisfied with her old home and not at all anxious to leave it .
It was in an old hollow stump close to the ground .
It was just such a place as Shadow the Weasel would be sure to visit should he happen along that way .
It did n't seem at all safe to Whitefoot .
In fact it worried him .
Then , too , it was not in such a pleasant place as was his own home .
Of course he did n't say this , but pretended to admire everything .
Two days and nights they spent there .
Then Whitefoot suggested that they should visit his home .
`` Of course , my dear , we will not have to live there unless you want to , but I want you to see it , '' said he .
Mrs. Whitefoot did n't appear at all anxious to go .
She began to make excuses for staying right where they were .
You see , she had a great love for that old home .
They were sitting just outside the doorway talking about the matter when Whitefoot caught a glimpse of a swiftly moving form not far off .
It was Shadow the Weasel .
Neither of them breathed .
Shadow passed without looking in their direction .
When he was out of sight , Mrs. Whitefoot shivered .
`` Let 's go over to your home right away , '' she whispered .
`` I 've never seen Shadow about here before , but now that he has been here once , he may come again . ''
`` We 'll start at once , '' replied Whitefoot , and for once he was glad that Shadow the Weasel was about .
CHAPTER XVIII : Mrs. Whitefoot Decides On A Home When Mrs. Mouse makes up her mind Then Mr. Mouse best get behind .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot the Wood Mouse was very proud of his home .
He showed it as he led Mrs. Whitefoot there .
He felt sure that she would say at once that that would be the place for them to live .
You remember that it was high up in a tall , dead stub and had once been the home of Timmy the Flying Squirrel .
`` There , my dear , what do you think of that ? ''
said Whitefoot proudly as they reached the little round doorway .
Mrs. Whitefoot said nothing , but at once went inside .
She was gone what seemed a long time to Whitefoot , anxiously waiting outside .
You see , Mrs. Whitefoot is a very thorough small person , and she was examining the inside of that house from top to bottom .
At last she appeared at the doorway .
`` Do n't you think this is a splendid house ? ''
asked Whitefoot rather timidly .
`` It is very good of its kind , '' replied Mrs. Whitefoot .
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
He did n't like the tone in which Mrs. Whitefoot had said that .
`` Just what do you mean , my dear ? ''
Whitefoot asked .
`` I mean , '' replied Mrs. Whitefoot , in a most decided way , `` that it is a very good house for winter , but it wo n't do at all for summer .
That is , it wo n't do for me .
In the first place it is so high up that if we should have babies , I would worry all the time for fear the darlings would have a bad fall .
Besides , I do n't like an inside house for summer .
I think , Whitefoot , we must look around and find a new home . ''
As she spoke Mrs. Whitefoot was already starting down the stub .
Whitefoot followed .
`` All right , my dear , all right , '' said he meekly .
`` You know best .
This seems to me like a very fine home , but of course , if you do n't like it we 'll look for another . ''
Mrs. Whitefoot said nothing , but led the way down the tree with Whitefoot meekly following .
Then began a patient search all about .
Mrs. Whitefoot appeared to know just what she wanted and turned up her nose at several places Whitefoot thought would make fine homes .
She hardly glanced at a fine hollow log Whitefoot found .
She merely poked her nose in at a splendid hole beneath the roots of an old stump .
Whitefoot began to grow tired from running about and climbing stumps and trees and bushes .
He stopped to rest and lost sight of Mrs. Whitefoot .
A moment later he heard her calling excitedly .
When he found her , she was up in a small tree , sitting on the edge of an old nest a few feet above the ground .
It was a nest that had once belonged to Melody the Wood Thrush .
Mrs. Whitefoot was sitting on the edge of it , and her bright eyes snapped with excitement and pleasure .
`` I 've found it ! ''
she cried .
`` I 've found it !
It is just what I have been looking for . ''
`` Found what ? ''
Whitefoot asked .
`` I do n't see anything but an old nest of Melody 's . ''
`` I 've found the home we 've been looking for , stupid , '' retorted Mrs. Whitefoot .
Still Whitefoot stared .
`` I do n't see any house , '' said he .
Mrs. Whitefoot stamped her feet impatiently .
`` Right here , stupid , '' said she .
`` This old nest will make us the finest and safest home that ever was .
No one will ever think of looking for us here .
We must get busy at once and fix it up . ''
Even then Whitefoot did n't understand .
Always he had lived either in a hole in the ground , or in a hollow stump or tree .
How they were to live in that old nest he could n't see at all .
CHAPTER XXIX : Making Over An Old House A home is always what you make it .
With love there you will ne'er forsake it .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot climbed up to the old nest of Melody the Wood Thrush over the edge of which little Mrs. Whitefoot was looking down at him .
It took Whitefoot hardly a moment to get up there , for the nest was only a few feet above the ground in a young tree , and you know Whitefoot is a very good climber .
He found Mrs. Whitefoot very much excited .
She was delighted with that old nest and she showed it .
For his part , Whitefoot could n't see anything but a deserted old house of no use to any one .
To be sure , it had been a very good home in its time .
It had been made of tiny twigs , stalks of old weeds , leaves , little fine roots and mud .
It was still quite solid , and was firmly fixed in a crotch of the young tree .
But Whitefoot could n't see how it could be turned into a home for a Mouse .
He said as much .
Little Mrs. Whitefoot became more excited than ever .
`` You dear old stupid , '' said she , `` whatever is the matter with you ?
Do n't you see that all we need do is to put a roof on , make an entrance on the under side , and make a soft comfortable bed inside to make it a delightful home ? ''
`` I do n't see why we do n't make a new home altogether , '' protested Whitefoot .
`` It seems to me that hollow stub of mine is ever so much better than this .
That has good solid walls , and we wo n't have to do a thing to it . ''
`` I told you once before that it does n't suit me for summer , '' replied little Mrs. Whitefoot rather sharply , because she was beginning to lose patience .
`` It will be all right for winter , but winter is a long way off .
It may suit you for summer , but it does n't suit me , and this place does .
So this is where we are going to live . ''
`` Certainly , my dear .
Certainly , '' replied Whitefoot very meekly .
`` If you want to live here , here we will live .
But I must confess it is n't clear to me yet how we are going to make a decent home out of this old nest . ''
`` Do n't you worry about that , '' replied Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` You can get the material , and I 'll attend to the rest .
Let us waste no time about it .
I am anxious to get our home finished and to feel a little bit settled .
I have already planned just what has got to be done and how we will do it .
Now you go look for some nice soft , dry weed stalks and strips of soft bark , and moss and any other soft , tough material that you can find .
Just get busy and do n't stop to talk . ''
Of course Whitefoot did as he was told .
He ran down to the ground and began to hunt for the things Mrs. Whitefoot wanted .
He was very particular about it .
He still did n't think much of her idea of making over that old home of Melody 's , but if she would do it , he meant that she should have the very best of materials to do it with .
So back and forth from the ground to the old nest in the tree Whitefoot hurried , and presently there was quite a pile of weed stalks and soft grass and strips of bark in the old nest .
Mrs. Whitefoot joined Whitefoot in hunting for just the right things , but she spent more time in arranging the material .
Over that old nest she made a fine high roof .
Down through the lower side she cut a little round doorway just big enough for them to pass through .
Unless you happened to be underneath looking up , you never would have guessed there was an entrance at all .
Inside was a snug , round room , and in this she made the softest and most comfortable of beds .
As it began to look more and more like a home , Whitefoot himself became as excited and eager as Mrs. Whitefoot had been from the beginning .
`` It certainly is going to be a fine home , '' said Whitefoot .
`` Did n't I tell you it would be ? ''
retorted Mrs. Whitefoot .
CHAPTER XXX : The Whitefoots Enjoy Their New Home No home is ever mean or poor Where love awaits you at the door .
-- Whitefoot .
`` There , '' said Mrs. Whitefoot , as she worked a strip of white birch bark into the roof of the new home she and Whitefoot had been building out of the old home of Melody the Wood Thrush , `` this finishes the roof .
I do n't think any water will get through it even in the hardest rain . ''
`` It is wonderful , '' declared Whitefoot admiringly .
`` Wherever did you learn to build such a house as this ? ''
`` From my mother , '' replied Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` I was born in just such a home .
It makes the finest kind of a home for Wood Mouse babies . ''
`` You do n't think there is danger that the wind will blow it down , do you ? ''
ventured Whitefoot .
`` Of course I do n't , '' retorted little Mrs. Whitefoot scornfully .
`` Has n't this old nest remained right where it is for over a year ?
Do you suppose that if I had thought there was the least bit of danger that it would blow down , I would have used it ?
Do credit me with a little sense , my dear . ''
`` Yes 'm , I do , '' replied Whitefoot meekly .
`` You are the most sensible person in all the Great World .
I was n't finding fault .
You see , I have always lived in a hole in the ground or a hollow stump , or a hole in a tree , and I have not yet become used to a home that moves about and rocks as this one does when the wind blows .
But if you say it is all right , why of course it is all right .
Probably I will get used to it after awhile . ''
Whitefoot did get used to it .
After living in it for a few days , it no longer seemed strange , and he no longer minded its swaying when the wind blew .
The fact is , he rather enjoyed it .
So Whitefoot and Mrs. Whitefoot settled down to enjoy their new home .
Now and then they added a bit to it here and there .
Somehow Whitefoot felt unusually safe , safer than he had ever felt in any of his other homes .
You see , he had seen several feathered folk alight close to it and not give it a second look .
He knew that they had seen that home , but had mistaken it for what it had once been , the deserted home of one of their own number .
Whitefoot had chuckled .
He had chuckled long and heartily .
`` If they make that mistake , '' said he to himself , `` everybody else is likely to make it .
That home of ours is right in plain sight , yet I do believe it is safer than the best hidden home I ever had before .
Shadow the Weasel never will think of climbing up this little tree to look at an old nest , and Shadow is the one I am most afraid of . ''
It was only a day or two later that Buster Bear happened along that way .
Now Buster is very fond of tender Wood Mouse .
More than once Whitefoot had had a narrow escape from Buster 's big claws as they tore open an old stump or dug into the ground after him .
He saw Buster glance up at the new home without the slightest interest in those shrewd little eyes of his .
Then Buster shuffled on to roll over an old log and lick up the ants he found under it .
Again Whitefoot chuckled .
`` Yes , sir , '' said he .
`` It is the safest home I 've ever had . ''
So Whitefoot and little Mrs. Whitefoot were very happy in the home which they had built , and for once in his life Whitefoot did very little worrying .
Life seemed more beautiful than it had ever been before .
And he almost forgot that there was such a thing as a hungry enemy .
CHAPTER XXXI : Whitefoot Is Hurt The hurts that hardest are to bear Come from those for whom we care .
-- Whitefoot .
Whitefoot was hurt .
Yes , sir , Whitefoot was hurt .
He was very much hurt .
It was n't a bodily hurt ; it was an inside hurt .
It was a hurt that made his heart ache .
And to make it worse , he could n't understand it at all .
One evening he had been met at the little round doorway by little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` You ca n't come in , '' said she .
`` Why ca n't I ? ''
demanded Whitefoot , in the greatest surprise .
`` Never mind why .
You ca n't , and that is all there is to it , '' replied Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` You mean I ca n't ever come in any more ? ''
asked Whitefoot .
`` I do n't know about that , '' replied Mrs. Whitefoot , `` but you ca n't come in now , nor for some time .
I think the best thing you can do is to go back to your old home in the hollow stub . ''
Whitefoot stared at little Mrs. Whitefoot quite as if he thought she had gone crazy .
Then he lost his temper .
`` I guess I 'll come in if I want to , '' said he .
`` This home is quite as much my home as it is yours .
You have no right to keep me out of it .
Just you get out of my way . ''
But little Mrs. Whitefoot did n't get out of his way , and do what he would , Whitefoot could n't get in .
You see she quite filled that little round doorway .
Finally , he had to give up trying .
Three times he came back and each time he found little Mrs. Whitefoot in the doorway .
And each time she drove him away .
Finally , for lack of any other place to go to , he returned to his old home in the old stub .
Once he had thought this the finest home possible , but now somehow it did n't suit him at all .
The truth is he missed little Mrs. Whitefoot , and so what had once been a home was now only a place in which to hide and sleep .
Whitefoot 's anger did not last long .
It was replaced by that hurt feeling .
He felt that he must have done something little Mrs. Whitefoot did not like , but though he thought and thought he could n't remember a single thing .
Several times he went back to see if Mrs. Whitefoot felt any differently , but found she did n't .
Finally she told him rather sharply to go away and stay away .
After that Whitefoot did n't venture over to the new home .
He would sometimes sit a short distance away and gaze at it longingly .
All the joy had gone out of the beautiful springtime for him .
He was quite as unhappy as he had been before he met little Mrs. Whitefoot .
You see , he was even more lonely than he had been then .
And added to this loneliness was that hurt feeling , which made it ever and ever so much worse .
It was very hard to bear .
`` If I could understand it , it would n't be so bad , '' he kept saying over and over again to himself , `` but I do n't understand it .
I do n't understand why Mrs. Whitefoot does n't love me any more . ''
CHAPTER XXXII : The Surprise Surprises sometimes are so great You 're tempted to believe in fate .
-- Whitefoot .
One never-to-be forgotten evening Whitefoot met Mrs. Whitefoot and she invited him to come back to their home .
Of course Whitefoot was delighted .
`` Sh-h-h , '' said little Mrs. Whitefoot , as Whitefoot entered the snug little room of the house they had built in the old nest of Melody the Wood Thrush .
Whitefoot hesitated .
In the first place , it was dark in there .
In the second place , he had the feeling that somehow that little bedroom seemed crowded .
It had n't been that way the last time he was there .
Mrs. Whitefoot was right in front of him , and she seemed very much excited about something .
Presently she crowded to one side .
`` Come here and look , '' said she .
Whitefoot looked .
In the middle of a soft bed of moss was a squirming mass of legs and funny little heads .
At first that was all Whitefoot could make out .
`` Do n't you think this is the most wonderful surprise that ever was ? ''
whispered little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` Are n't they darlings ?
Are n't you proud of them ? ''
By this time Whitefoot had made out that that squirming mass of legs and heads was composed of baby Mice .
He counted them .
There were four .
`` Whose are they , and what are they doing here ? ''
Whitefoot asked in a queer voice .
`` Why , you old stupid , they are yours , -- yours and mine , '' declared little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` Did you ever , ever see such beautiful babies ?
Now I guess you understand why I kept you away from here . ''
Whitefoot shook his head .
`` No , '' said he , `` I do n't understand at all .
I do n't see yet what you drove me away for . ''
`` Why , you blessed old dear , there was n't room for you when those babies came ; I had to have all the room there was .
It would n't have done to have had you running in and out and disturbing them when they were so tiny .
I had to be alone with them , and that is why I made you go off and live by yourself .
I am so proud of them , I do n't know what to do .
Are n't you proud , Whitefoot ?
Are n't you the proudest Wood Mouse in all the Green Forest ? ''
Of course Whitefoot should have promptly said that he was , but the truth is , Whitefoot was n't proud at all .
You see , he was so surprised that he had n't yet had time to feel that they were really his .
In fact , just then he felt a wee bit jealous of them .
It came over him that they would take all the time and attention of little Mrs. Whitefoot .
So Whitefoot did n't answer that question .
He simply sat and stared at those four squirming babies .
Finally little Mrs. Whitefoot gently pushed him out and followed him .
`` Of course , '' said she , `` there is n't room for you to stay here now .
You will have to sleep in your old home because there is n't room in here for both of us and the babies too . ''
Whitefoot 's heart sank .
He had thought that he was to stay and that everything would be just as it had been before .
`` Ca n't I come over here any more ? ''
he asked rather timidly .
`` What a foolish question ! ''
cried little Mrs. Whitefoot .
`` Of course you can .
You will have to help take care of these babies .
Just as soon as they are big enough , you will have to help teach them how to hunt for food and how to watch out for danger , and all the things that a wise Wood Mouse knows .
Why , they could n't get along without you .
Neither could I , '' she added softly .
At that Whitefoot felt better .
And suddenly there was a queer swelling in his heart .
It was the beginning of pride , pride in those wonderful babies .
`` You have given me the best surprise that ever was , my dear , '' said Whitefoot softly .
`` Now I think I will go and look for some supper . ''
So now we will leave Whitefoot and his family .
You see there are two very lively little people of the Green Forest who demand attention and insist on having it .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Washington_Irving___The_Legend_of_Sleepy_Hollow.txt.out
FOUND AMONG THE PAPERS OF THE LATE DIEDRICH KNICKERBOCKER .
A pleasing land of drowsy head it was , Of dreams that wave before the half-shut eye ; And of gay castles in the clouds that pass , Forever flushing round a summer sky .
CASTLE OF INDOLENCE .
In the bosom of one of those spacious coves which indent the eastern shore of the Hudson , at that broad expansion of the river denominated by the ancient Dutch navigators the Tappan Zee , and where they always prudently shortened sail and implored the protection of St. Nicholas when they crossed , there lies a small market town or rural port , which by some is called Greensburgh , but which is more generally and properly known by the name of Tarry Town .
This name was given , we are told , in former days , by the good housewives of the adjacent country , from the inveterate propensity of their husbands to linger about the village tavern on market days .
Be that as it may , I do not vouch for the fact , but merely advert to it , for the sake of being precise and authentic .
Not far from this village , perhaps about two miles , there is a little valley or rather lap of land among high hills , which is one of the quietest places in the whole world .
A small brook glides through it , with just murmur enough to lull one to repose ; and the occasional whistle of a quail or tapping of a woodpecker is almost the only sound that ever breaks in upon the uniform tranquillity .
I recollect that , when a stripling , my first exploit in squirrel-shooting was in a grove of tall walnut-trees that shades one side of the valley .
I had wandered into it at noontime , when all nature is peculiarly quiet , and was startled by the roar of my own gun , as it broke the Sabbath stillness around and was prolonged and reverberated by the angry echoes .
If ever I should wish for a retreat whither I might steal from the world and its distractions , and dream quietly away the remnant of a troubled life , I know of none more promising than this little valley .
From the listless repose of the place , and the peculiar character of its inhabitants , who are descendants from the original Dutch settlers , this sequestered glen has long been known by the name of SLEEPY HOLLOW , and its rustic lads are called the Sleepy Hollow Boys throughout all the neighboring country .
A drowsy , dreamy influence seems to hang over the land , and to pervade the very atmosphere .
Some say that the place was bewitched by a High German doctor , during the early days of the settlement ; others , that an old Indian chief , the prophet or wizard of his tribe , held his powwows there before the country was discovered by Master Hendrick Hudson .
Certain it is , the place still continues under the sway of some witching power , that holds a spell over the minds of the good people , causing them to walk in a continual reverie .
They are given to all kinds of marvellous beliefs , are subject to trances and visions , and frequently see strange sights , and hear music and voices in the air .
The whole neighborhood abounds with local tales , haunted spots , and twilight superstitions ; stars shoot and meteors glare oftener across the valley than in any other part of the country , and the nightmare , with her whole ninefold , seems to make it the favorite scene of her gambols .
The dominant spirit , however , that haunts this enchanted region , and seems to be commander-in-chief of all the powers of the air , is the apparition of a figure on horseback , without a head .
It is said by some to be the ghost of a Hessian trooper , whose head had been carried away by a cannon-ball , in some nameless battle during the Revolutionary War , and who is ever and anon seen by the country folk hurrying along in the gloom of night , as if on the wings of the wind .
His haunts are not confined to the valley , but extend at times to the adjacent roads , and especially to the vicinity of a church at no great distance .
Indeed , certain of the most authentic historians of those parts , who have been careful in collecting and collating the floating facts concerning this spectre , allege that the body of the trooper having been buried in the churchyard , the ghost rides forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head , and that the rushing speed with which he sometimes passes along the Hollow , like a midnight blast , is owing to his being belated , and in a hurry to get back to the churchyard before daybreak .
Such is the general purport of this legendary superstition , which has furnished materials for many a wild story in that region of shadows ; and the spectre is known at all the country firesides , by the name of the Headless Horseman of Sleepy Hollow .
It is remarkable that the visionary propensity I have mentioned is not confined to the native inhabitants of the valley , but is unconsciously imbibed by every one who resides there for a time .
However wide awake they may have been before they entered that sleepy region , they are sure , in a little time , to inhale the witching influence of the air , and begin to grow imaginative , to dream dreams , and see apparitions .
I mention this peaceful spot with all possible laud , for it is in such little retired Dutch valleys , found here and there embosomed in the great State of New York , that population , manners , and customs remain fixed , while the great torrent of migration and improvement , which is making such incessant changes in other parts of this restless country , sweeps by them unobserved .
They are like those little nooks of still water , which border a rapid stream , where we may see the straw and bubble riding quietly at anchor , or slowly revolving in their mimic harbor , undisturbed by the rush of the passing current .
Though many years have elapsed since I trod the drowsy shades of Sleepy Hollow , yet I question whether I should not still find the same trees and the same families vegetating in its sheltered bosom .
In this by-place of nature there abode , in a remote period of American history , that is to say , some thirty years since , a worthy wight of the name of Ichabod Crane , who sojourned , or , as he expressed it , `` tarried , '' in Sleepy Hollow , for the purpose of instructing the children of the vicinity .
He was a native of Connecticut , a State which supplies the Union with pioneers for the mind as well as for the forest , and sends forth yearly its legions of frontier woodmen and country schoolmasters .
The cognomen of Crane was not inapplicable to his person .
He was tall , but exceedingly lank , with narrow shoulders , long arms and legs , hands that dangled a mile out of his sleeves , feet that might have served for shovels , and his whole frame most loosely hung together .
His head was small , and flat at top , with huge ears , large green glassy eyes , and a long snipe nose , so that it looked like a weather-cock perched upon his spindle neck to tell which way the wind blew .
To see him striding along the profile of a hill on a windy day , with his clothes bagging and fluttering about him , one might have mistaken him for the genius of famine descending upon the earth , or some scarecrow eloped from a cornfield .
His schoolhouse was a low building of one large room , rudely constructed of logs ; the windows partly glazed , and partly patched with leaves of old copybooks .
It was most ingeniously secured at vacant hours , by a withe twisted in the handle of the door , and stakes set against the window shutters ; so that though a thief might get in with perfect ease , he would find some embarrassment in getting out , -- an idea most probably borrowed by the architect , Yost Van Houten , from the mystery of an eelpot .
The schoolhouse stood in a rather lonely but pleasant situation , just at the foot of a woody hill , with a brook running close by , and a formidable birch-tree growing at one end of it .
From hence the low murmur of his pupils ' voices , conning over their lessons , might be heard in a drowsy summer 's day , like the hum of a beehive ; interrupted now and then by the authoritative voice of the master , in the tone of menace or command , or , peradventure , by the appalling sound of the birch , as he urged some tardy loiterer along the flowery path of knowledge .
Truth to say , he was a conscientious man , and ever bore in mind the golden maxim , `` Spare the rod and spoil the child . ''
Ichabod Crane 's scholars certainly were not spoiled .
I would not have it imagined , however , that he was one of those cruel potentates of the school who joy in the smart of their subjects ; on the contrary , he administered justice with discrimination rather than severity ; taking the burden off the backs of the weak , and laying it on those of the strong .
Your mere puny stripling , that winced at the least flourish of the rod , was passed by with indulgence ; but the claims of justice were satisfied by inflicting a double portion on some little tough wrong-headed , broad-skirted Dutch urchin , who sulked and swelled and grew dogged and sullen beneath the birch .
All this he called `` doing his duty by their parents ; '' and he never inflicted a chastisement without following it by the assurance , so consolatory to the smarting urchin , that `` he would remember it and thank him for it the longest day he had to live . ''
When school hours were over , he was even the companion and playmate of the larger boys ; and on holiday afternoons would convoy some of the smaller ones home , who happened to have pretty sisters , or good housewives for mothers , noted for the comforts of the cupboard .
Indeed , it behooved him to keep on good terms with his pupils .
The revenue arising from his school was small , and would have been scarcely sufficient to furnish him with daily bread , for he was a huge feeder , and , though lank , had the dilating powers of an anaconda ; but to help out his maintenance , he was , according to country custom in those parts , boarded and lodged at the houses of the farmers whose children he instructed .
With these he lived successively a week at a time , thus going the rounds of the neighborhood , with all his worldly effects tied up in a cotton handkerchief .
That all this might not be too onerous on the purses of his rustic patrons , who are apt to consider the costs of schooling a grievous burden , and schoolmasters as mere drones , he had various ways of rendering himself both useful and agreeable .
He assisted the farmers occasionally in the lighter labors of their farms , helped to make hay , mended the fences , took the horses to water , drove the cows from pasture , and cut wood for the winter fire .
He laid aside , too , all the dominant dignity and absolute sway with which he lorded it in his little empire , the school , and became wonderfully gentle and ingratiating .
He found favor in the eyes of the mothers by petting the children , particularly the youngest ; and like the lion bold , which whilom so magnanimously the lamb did hold , he would sit with a child on one knee , and rock a cradle with his foot for whole hours together .
In addition to his other vocations , he was the singing-master of the neighborhood , and picked up many bright shillings by instructing the young folks in psalmody .
It was a matter of no little vanity to him on Sundays , to take his station in front of the church gallery , with a band of chosen singers ; where , in his own mind , he completely carried away the palm from the parson .
Certain it is , his voice resounded far above all the rest of the congregation ; and there are peculiar quavers still to be heard in that church , and which may even be heard half a mile off , quite to the opposite side of the millpond , on a still Sunday morning , which are said to be legitimately descended from the nose of Ichabod Crane .
Thus , by divers little makeshifts , in that ingenious way which is commonly denominated `` by hook and by crook , '' the worthy pedagogue got on tolerably enough , and was thought , by all who understood nothing of the labor of headwork , to have a wonderfully easy life of it .
The schoolmaster is generally a man of some importance in the female circle of a rural neighborhood ; being considered a kind of idle , gentlemanlike personage , of vastly superior taste and accomplishments to the rough country swains , and , indeed , inferior in learning only to the parson .
His appearance , therefore , is apt to occasion some little stir at the tea-table of a farmhouse , and the addition of a supernumerary dish of cakes or sweetmeats , or , peradventure , the parade of a silver teapot .
Our man of letters , therefore , was peculiarly happy in the smiles of all the country damsels .
How he would figure among them in the churchyard , between services on Sundays ; gathering grapes for them from the wild vines that overran the surrounding trees ; reciting for their amusement all the epitaphs on the tombstones ; or sauntering , with a whole bevy of them , along the banks of the adjacent millpond ; while the more bashful country bumpkins hung sheepishly back , envying his superior elegance and address .
From his half-itinerant life , also , he was a kind of travelling gazette , carrying the whole budget of local gossip from house to house , so that his appearance was always greeted with satisfaction .
He was , moreover , esteemed by the women as a man of great erudition , for he had read several books quite through , and was a perfect master of Cotton Mather 's `` History of New England Witchcraft , '' in which , by the way , he most firmly and potently believed .
He was , in fact , an odd mixture of small shrewdness and simple credulity .
His appetite for the marvellous , and his powers of digesting it , were equally extraordinary ; and both had been increased by his residence in this spell-bound region .
No tale was too gross or monstrous for his capacious swallow .
It was often his delight , after his school was dismissed in the afternoon , to stretch himself on the rich bed of clover bordering the little brook that whimpered by his schoolhouse , and there con over old Mather 's direful tales , until the gathering dusk of evening made the printed page a mere mist before his eyes .
Then , as he wended his way by swamp and stream and awful woodland , to the farmhouse where he happened to be quartered , every sound of nature , at that witching hour , fluttered his excited imagination , -- the moan of the whip-poor-will from the hillside , the boding cry of the tree toad , that harbinger of storm , the dreary hooting of the screech owl , or the sudden rustling in the thicket of birds frightened from their roost .
The fireflies , too , which sparkled most vividly in the darkest places , now and then startled him , as one of uncommon brightness would stream across his path ; and if , by chance , a huge blockhead of a beetle came winging his blundering flight against him , the poor varlet was ready to give up the ghost , with the idea that he was struck with a witch 's token .
His only resource on such occasions , either to drown thought or drive away evil spirits , was to sing psalm tunes and the good people of Sleepy Hollow , as they sat by their doors of an evening , were often filled with awe at hearing his nasal melody , `` in linked sweetness long drawn out , '' floating from the distant hill , or along the dusky road .
Another of his sources of fearful pleasure was to pass long winter evenings with the old Dutch wives , as they sat spinning by the fire , with a row of apples roasting and spluttering along the hearth , and listen to their marvellous tales of ghosts and goblins , and haunted fields , and haunted brooks , and haunted bridges , and haunted houses , and particularly of the headless horseman , or Galloping Hessian of the Hollow , as they sometimes called him .
He would delight them equally by his anecdotes of witchcraft , and of the direful omens and portentous sights and sounds in the air , which prevailed in the earlier times of Connecticut ; and would frighten them woefully with speculations upon comets and shooting stars ; and with the alarming fact that the world did absolutely turn round , and that they were half the time topsy-turvy !
But if there was a pleasure in all this , while snugly cuddling in the chimney corner of a chamber that was all of a ruddy glow from the crackling wood fire , and where , of course , no spectre dared to show its face , it was dearly purchased by the terrors of his subsequent walk homewards .
What fearful shapes and shadows beset his path , amidst the dim and ghastly glare of a snowy night !
With what wistful look did he eye every trembling ray of light streaming across the waste fields from some distant window !
How often was he appalled by some shrub covered with snow , which , like a sheeted spectre , beset his very path !
How often did he shrink with curdling awe at the sound of his own steps on the frosty crust beneath his feet ; and dread to look over his shoulder , lest he should behold some uncouth being tramping close behind him !
And how often was he thrown into complete dismay by some rushing blast , howling among the trees , in the idea that it was the Galloping Hessian on one of his nightly scourings !
All these , however , were mere terrors of the night , phantoms of the mind that walk in darkness ; and though he had seen many spectres in his time , and been more than once beset by Satan in divers shapes , in his lonely perambulations , yet daylight put an end to all these evils ; and he would have passed a pleasant life of it , in despite of the Devil and all his works , if his path had not been crossed by a being that causes more perplexity to mortal man than ghosts , goblins , and the whole race of witches put together , and that was -- a woman .
Among the musical disciples who assembled , one evening in each week , to receive his instructions in psalmody , was Katrina Van Tassel , the daughter and only child of a substantial Dutch farmer .
She was a blooming lass of fresh eighteen ; plump as a partridge ; ripe and melting and rosy-cheeked as one of her father 's peaches , and universally famed , not merely for her beauty , but her vast expectations .
She was withal a little of a coquette , as might be perceived even in her dress , which was a mixture of ancient and modern fashions , as most suited to set off her charms .
She wore the ornaments of pure yellow gold , which her great-great-grandmother had brought over from Saardam ; the tempting stomacher of the olden time , and withal a provokingly short petticoat , to display the prettiest foot and ankle in the country round .
Ichabod Crane had a soft and foolish heart towards the sex ; and it is not to be wondered at that so tempting a morsel soon found favor in his eyes , more especially after he had visited her in her paternal mansion .
Old Baltus Van Tassel was a perfect picture of a thriving , contented , liberal-hearted farmer .
He seldom , it is true , sent either his eyes or his thoughts beyond the boundaries of his own farm ; but within those everything was snug , happy and well-conditioned .
He was satisfied with his wealth , but not proud of it ; and piqued himself upon the hearty abundance , rather than the style in which he lived .
His stronghold was situated on the banks of the Hudson , in one of those green , sheltered , fertile nooks in which the Dutch farmers are so fond of nestling .
A great elm tree spread its broad branches over it , at the foot of which bubbled up a spring of the softest and sweetest water , in a little well formed of a barrel ; and then stole sparkling away through the grass , to a neighboring brook , that babbled along among alders and dwarf willows .
Hard by the farmhouse was a vast barn , that might have served for a church ; every window and crevice of which seemed bursting forth with the treasures of the farm ; the flail was busily resounding within it from morning to night ; swallows and martins skimmed twittering about the eaves ; and rows of pigeons , some with one eye turned up , as if watching the weather , some with their heads under their wings or buried in their bosoms , and others swelling , and cooing , and bowing about their dames , were enjoying the sunshine on the roof .
Sleek unwieldy porkers were grunting in the repose and abundance of their pens , from whence sallied forth , now and then , troops of sucking pigs , as if to snuff the air .
A stately squadron of snowy geese were riding in an adjoining pond , convoying whole fleets of ducks ; regiments of turkeys were gobbling through the farmyard , and Guinea fowls fretting about it , like ill-tempered housewives , with their peevish , discontented cry .
Before the barn door strutted the gallant cock , that pattern of a husband , a warrior and a fine gentleman , clapping his burnished wings and crowing in the pride and gladness of his heart , -- sometimes tearing up the earth with his feet , and then generously calling his ever-hungry family of wives and children to enjoy the rich morsel which he had discovered .
The pedagogue 's mouth watered as he looked upon this sumptuous promise of luxurious winter fare .
In his devouring mind 's eye , he pictured to himself every roasting-pig running about with a pudding in his belly , and an apple in his mouth ; the pigeons were snugly put to bed in a comfortable pie , and tucked in with a coverlet of crust ; the geese were swimming in their own gravy ; and the ducks pairing cosily in dishes , like snug married couples , with a decent competency of onion sauce .
In the porkers he saw carved out the future sleek side of bacon , and juicy relishing ham ; not a turkey but he beheld daintily trussed up , with its gizzard under its wing , and , peradventure , a necklace of savory sausages ; and even bright chanticleer himself lay sprawling on his back , in a side dish , with uplifted claws , as if craving that quarter which his chivalrous spirit disdained to ask while living .
As the enraptured Ichabod fancied all this , and as he rolled his great green eyes over the fat meadow lands , the rich fields of wheat , of rye , of buckwheat , and Indian corn , and the orchards burdened with ruddy fruit , which surrounded the warm tenement of Van Tassel , his heart yearned after the damsel who was to inherit these domains , and his imagination expanded with the idea , how they might be readily turned into cash , and the money invested in immense tracts of wild land , and shingle palaces in the wilderness .
Nay , his busy fancy already realized his hopes , and presented to him the blooming Katrina , with a whole family of children , mounted on the top of a wagon loaded with household trumpery , with pots and kettles dangling beneath ; and he beheld himself bestriding a pacing mare , with a colt at her heels , setting out for Kentucky , Tennessee , -- or the Lord knows where !
When he entered the house , the conquest of his heart was complete .
It was one of those spacious farmhouses , with high-ridged but lowly sloping roofs , built in the style handed down from the first Dutch settlers ; the low projecting eaves forming a piazza along the front , capable of being closed up in bad weather .
Under this were hung flails , harness , various utensils of husbandry , and nets for fishing in the neighboring river .
Benches were built along the sides for summer use ; and a great spinning-wheel at one end , and a churn at the other , showed the various uses to which this important porch might be devoted .
From this piazza the wondering Ichabod entered the hall , which formed the centre of the mansion , and the place of usual residence .
Here rows of resplendent pewter , ranged on a long dresser , dazzled his eyes .
In one corner stood a huge bag of wool , ready to be spun ; in another , a quantity of linsey-woolsey just from the loom ; ears of Indian corn , and strings of dried apples and peaches , hung in gay festoons along the walls , mingled with the gaud of red peppers ; and a door left ajar gave him a peep into the best parlor , where the claw-footed chairs and dark mahogany tables shone like mirrors ; andirons , with their accompanying shovel and tongs , glistened from their covert of asparagus tops ; mock-oranges and conch-shells decorated the mantelpiece ; strings of various-colored birds eggs were suspended above it ; a great ostrich egg was hung from the centre of the room , and a corner cupboard , knowingly left open , displayed immense treasures of old silver and well-mended china .
From the moment Ichabod laid his eyes upon these regions of delight , the peace of his mind was at an end , and his only study was how to gain the affections of the peerless daughter of Van Tassel .
In this enterprise , however , he had more real difficulties than generally fell to the lot of a knight-errant of yore , who seldom had anything but giants , enchanters , fiery dragons , and such like easily conquered adversaries , to contend with and had to make his way merely through gates of iron and brass , and walls of adamant to the castle keep , where the lady of his heart was confined ; all which he achieved as easily as a man would carve his way to the centre of a Christmas pie ; and then the lady gave him her hand as a matter of course .
Ichabod , on the contrary , had to win his way to the heart of a country coquette , beset with a labyrinth of whims and caprices , which were forever presenting new difficulties and impediments ; and he had to encounter a host of fearful adversaries of real flesh and blood , the numerous rustic admirers , who beset every portal to her heart , keeping a watchful and angry eye upon each other , but ready to fly out in the common cause against any new competitor .
Among these , the most formidable was a burly , roaring , roystering blade , of the name of Abraham , or , according to the Dutch abbreviation , Brom Van Brunt , the hero of the country round , which rang with his feats of strength and hardihood .
He was broad-shouldered and double-jointed , with short curly black hair , and a bluff but not unpleasant countenance , having a mingled air of fun and arrogance .
From his Herculean frame and great powers of limb he had received the nickname of BROM BONES , by which he was universally known .
He was famed for great knowledge and skill in horsemanship , being as dexterous on horseback as a Tartar .
He was foremost at all races and cock fights ; and , with the ascendancy which bodily strength always acquires in rustic life , was the umpire in all disputes , setting his hat on one side , and giving his decisions with an air and tone that admitted of no gainsay or appeal .
He was always ready for either a fight or a frolic ; but had more mischief than ill-will in his composition ; and with all his overbearing roughness , there was a strong dash of waggish good humor at bottom .
He had three or four boon companions , who regarded him as their model , and at the head of whom he scoured the country , attending every scene of feud or merriment for miles round .
In cold weather he was distinguished by a fur cap , surmounted with a flaunting fox 's tail ; and when the folks at a country gathering descried this well-known crest at a distance , whisking about among a squad of hard riders , they always stood by for a squall .
Sometimes his crew would be heard dashing along past the farmhouses at midnight , with whoop and halloo , like a troop of Don Cossacks ; and the old dames , startled out of their sleep , would listen for a moment till the hurry-scurry had clattered by , and then exclaim , `` Ay , there goes Brom Bones and his gang ! ''
The neighbors looked upon him with a mixture of awe , admiration , and good-will ; and , when any madcap prank or rustic brawl occurred in the vicinity , always shook their heads , and warranted Brom Bones was at the bottom of it .
This rantipole hero had for some time singled out the blooming Katrina for the object of his uncouth gallantries , and though his amorous toyings were something like the gentle caresses and endearments of a bear , yet it was whispered that she did not altogether discourage his hopes .
Certain it is , his advances were signals for rival candidates to retire , who felt no inclination to cross a lion in his amours ; insomuch , that when his horse was seen tied to Van Tassel 's paling , on a Sunday night , a sure sign that his master was courting , or , as it is termed , `` sparking , '' within , all other suitors passed by in despair , and carried the war into other quarters .
Such was the formidable rival with whom Ichabod Crane had to contend , and , considering all things , a stouter man than he would have shrunk from the competition , and a wiser man would have despaired .
He had , however , a happy mixture of pliability and perseverance in his nature ; he was in form and spirit like a supple-jack -- yielding , but tough ; though he bent , he never broke ; and though he bowed beneath the slightest pressure , yet , the moment it was away -- jerk !
-- he was as erect , and carried his head as high as ever .
To have taken the field openly against his rival would have been madness ; for he was not a man to be thwarted in his amours , any more than that stormy lover , Achilles .
Ichabod , therefore , made his advances in a quiet and gently insinuating manner .
Under cover of his character of singing-master , he made frequent visits at the farmhouse ; not that he had anything to apprehend from the meddlesome interference of parents , which is so often a stumbling-block in the path of lovers .
Balt Van Tassel was an easy indulgent soul ; he loved his daughter better even than his pipe , and , like a reasonable man and an excellent father , let her have her way in everything .
His notable little wife , too , had enough to do to attend to her housekeeping and manage her poultry ; for , as she sagely observed , ducks and geese are foolish things , and must be looked after , but girls can take care of themselves .
Thus , while the busy dame bustled about the house , or plied her spinning-wheel at one end of the piazza , honest Balt would sit smoking his evening pipe at the other , watching the achievements of a little wooden warrior , who , armed with a sword in each hand , was most valiantly fighting the wind on the pinnacle of the barn .
In the mean time , Ichabod would carry on his suit with the daughter by the side of the spring under the great elm , or sauntering along in the twilight , that hour so favorable to the lover 's eloquence .
I profess not to know how women 's hearts are wooed and won .
To me they have always been matters of riddle and admiration .
Some seem to have but one vulnerable point , or door of access ; while others have a thousand avenues , and may be captured in a thousand different ways .
It is a great triumph of skill to gain the former , but a still greater proof of generalship to maintain possession of the latter , for man must battle for his fortress at every door and window .
He who wins a thousand common hearts is therefore entitled to some renown ; but he who keeps undisputed sway over the heart of a coquette is indeed a hero .
Certain it is , this was not the case with the redoubtable Brom Bones ; and from the moment Ichabod Crane made his advances , the interests of the former evidently declined : his horse was no longer seen tied to the palings on Sunday nights , and a deadly feud gradually arose between him and the preceptor of Sleepy Hollow .
Brom , who had a degree of rough chivalry in his nature , would fain have carried matters to open warfare and have settled their pretensions to the lady , according to the mode of those most concise and simple reasoners , the knights-errant of yore , -- by single combat ; but Ichabod was too conscious of the superior might of his adversary to enter the lists against him ; he had overheard a boast of Bones , that he would `` double the schoolmaster up , and lay him on a shelf of his own schoolhouse ; '' and he was too wary to give him an opportunity .
There was something extremely provoking in this obstinately pacific system ; it left Brom no alternative but to draw upon the funds of rustic waggery in his disposition , and to play off boorish practical jokes upon his rival .
Ichabod became the object of whimsical persecution to Bones and his gang of rough riders .
They harried his hitherto peaceful domains ; smoked out his singing school by stopping up the chimney ; broke into the schoolhouse at night , in spite of its formidable fastenings of withe and window stakes , and turned everything topsy-turvy , so that the poor schoolmaster began to think all the witches in the country held their meetings there .
But what was still more annoying , Brom took all opportunities of turning him into ridicule in presence of his mistress , and had a scoundrel dog whom he taught to whine in the most ludicrous manner , and introduced as a rival of Ichabod 's , to instruct her in psalmody .
In this way matters went on for some time , without producing any material effect on the relative situations of the contending powers .
On a fine autumnal afternoon , Ichabod , in pensive mood , sat enthroned on the lofty stool from whence he usually watched all the concerns of his little literary realm .
In his hand he swayed a ferule , that sceptre of despotic power ; the birch of justice reposed on three nails behind the throne , a constant terror to evil doers , while on the desk before him might be seen sundry contraband articles and prohibited weapons , detected upon the persons of idle urchins , such as half-munched apples , popguns , whirligigs , fly-cages , and whole legions of rampant little paper gamecocks .
Apparently there had been some appalling act of justice recently inflicted , for his scholars were all busily intent upon their books , or slyly whispering behind them with one eye kept upon the master ; and a kind of buzzing stillness reigned throughout the schoolroom .
It was suddenly interrupted by the appearance of a negro in tow-cloth jacket and trowsers , a round-crowned fragment of a hat , like the cap of Mercury , and mounted on the back of a ragged , wild , half-broken colt , which he managed with a rope by way of halter .
He came clattering up to the school door with an invitation to Ichabod to attend a merry-making or `` quilting frolic , '' to be held that evening at Mynheer Van Tassel 's ; and having delivered his message with that air of importance , and effort at fine language , which a negro is apt to display on petty embassies of the kind , he dashed over the brook , and was seen scampering away up the hollow , full of the importance and hurry of his mission .
All was now bustle and hubbub in the late quiet schoolroom .
The scholars were hurried through their lessons without stopping at trifles ; those who were nimble skipped over half with impunity , and those who were tardy had a smart application now and then in the rear , to quicken their speed or help them over a tall word .
Books were flung aside without being put away on the shelves , inkstands were overturned , benches thrown down , and the whole school was turned loose an hour before the usual time , bursting forth like a legion of young imps , yelping and racketing about the green in joy at their early emancipation .
The gallant Ichabod now spent at least an extra half hour at his toilet , brushing and furbishing up his best , and indeed only suit of rusty black , and arranging his locks by a bit of broken looking-glass that hung up in the schoolhouse .
That he might make his appearance before his mistress in the true style of a cavalier , he borrowed a horse from the farmer with whom he was domiciliated , a choleric old Dutchman of the name of Hans Van Ripper , and , thus gallantly mounted , issued forth like a knight-errant in quest of adventures .
But it is meet I should , in the true spirit of romantic story , give some account of the looks and equipments of my hero and his steed .
The animal he bestrode was a broken-down plow-horse , that had outlived almost everything but its viciousness .
He was gaunt and shagged , with a ewe neck , and a head like a hammer ; his rusty mane and tail were tangled and knotted with burs ; one eye had lost its pupil , and was glaring and spectral , but the other had the gleam of a genuine devil in it .
Still he must have had fire and mettle in his day , if we may judge from the name he bore of Gunpowder .
He had , in fact , been a favorite steed of his master 's , the choleric Van Ripper , who was a furious rider , and had infused , very probably , some of his own spirit into the animal ; for , old and broken-down as he looked , there was more of the lurking devil in him than in any young filly in the country .
Ichabod was a suitable figure for such a steed .
He rode with short stirrups , which brought his knees nearly up to the pommel of the saddle ; his sharp elbows stuck out like grasshoppers ' ; he carried his whip perpendicularly in his hand , like a sceptre , and as his horse jogged on , the motion of his arms was not unlike the flapping of a pair of wings .
A small wool hat rested on the top of his nose , for so his scanty strip of forehead might be called , and the skirts of his black coat fluttered out almost to the horses tail .
Such was the appearance of Ichabod and his steed as they shambled out of the gate of Hans Van Ripper , and it was altogether such an apparition as is seldom to be met with in broad daylight .
It was , as I have said , a fine autumnal day ; the sky was clear and serene , and nature wore that rich and golden livery which we always associate with the idea of abundance .
The forests had put on their sober brown and yellow , while some trees of the tenderer kind had been nipped by the frosts into brilliant dyes of orange , purple , and scarlet .
Streaming files of wild ducks began to make their appearance high in the air ; the bark of the squirrel might be heard from the groves of beech and hickory-nuts , and the pensive whistle of the quail at intervals from the neighboring stubble field .
The small birds were taking their farewell banquets .
In the fullness of their revelry , they fluttered , chirping and frolicking from bush to bush , and tree to tree , capricious from the very profusion and variety around them .
There was the honest cock robin , the favorite game of stripling sportsmen , with its loud querulous note ; and the twittering blackbirds flying in sable clouds ; and the golden-winged woodpecker with his crimson crest , his broad black gorget , and splendid plumage ; and the cedar bird , with its red-tipt wings and yellow-tipt tail and its little monteiro cap of feathers ; and the blue jay , that noisy coxcomb , in his gay light blue coat and white underclothes , screaming and chattering , nodding and bobbing and bowing , and pretending to be on good terms with every songster of the grove .
As Ichabod jogged slowly on his way , his eye , ever open to every symptom of culinary abundance , ranged with delight over the treasures of jolly autumn .
On all sides he beheld vast store of apples ; some hanging in oppressive opulence on the trees ; some gathered into baskets and barrels for the market ; others heaped up in rich piles for the cider-press .
Farther on he beheld great fields of Indian corn , with its golden ears peeping from their leafy coverts , and holding out the promise of cakes and hasty-pudding ; and the yellow pumpkins lying beneath them , turning up their fair round bellies to the sun , and giving ample prospects of the most luxurious of pies ; and anon he passed the fragrant buckwheat fields breathing the odor of the beehive , and as he beheld them , soft anticipations stole over his mind of dainty slapjacks , well buttered , and garnished with honey or treacle , by the delicate little dimpled hand of Katrina Van Tassel .
Thus feeding his mind with many sweet thoughts and `` sugared suppositions , '' he journeyed along the sides of a range of hills which look out upon some of the goodliest scenes of the mighty Hudson .
The sun gradually wheeled his broad disk down in the west .
The wide bosom of the Tappan Zee lay motionless and glassy , excepting that here and there a gentle undulation waved and prolonged the blue shadow of the distant mountain .
A few amber clouds floated in the sky , without a breath of air to move them .
The horizon was of a fine golden tint , changing gradually into a pure apple green , and from that into the deep blue of the mid-heaven .
A slanting ray lingered on the woody crests of the precipices that overhung some parts of the river , giving greater depth to the dark gray and purple of their rocky sides .
A sloop was loitering in the distance , dropping slowly down with the tide , her sail hanging uselessly against the mast ; and as the reflection of the sky gleamed along the still water , it seemed as if the vessel was suspended in the air .
It was toward evening that Ichabod arrived at the castle of the Heer Van Tassel , which he found thronged with the pride and flower of the adjacent country .
Old farmers , a spare leathern-faced race , in homespun coats and breeches , blue stockings , huge shoes , and magnificent pewter buckles .
Their brisk , withered little dames , in close-crimped caps , long-waisted short gowns , homespun petticoats , with scissors and pincushions , and gay calico pockets hanging on the outside .
Buxom lasses , almost as antiquated as their mothers , excepting where a straw hat , a fine ribbon , or perhaps a white frock , gave symptoms of city innovation .
The sons , in short square-skirted coats , with rows of stupendous brass buttons , and their hair generally queued in the fashion of the times , especially if they could procure an eel-skin for the purpose , it being esteemed throughout the country as a potent nourisher and strengthener of the hair .
Brom Bones , however , was the hero of the scene , having come to the gathering on his favorite steed Daredevil , a creature , like himself , full of mettle and mischief , and which no one but himself could manage .
He was , in fact , noted for preferring vicious animals , given to all kinds of tricks which kept the rider in constant risk of his neck , for he held a tractable , well-broken horse as unworthy of a lad of spirit .
Fain would I pause to dwell upon the world of charms that burst upon the enraptured gaze of my hero , as he entered the state parlor of Van Tassel 's mansion .
Not those of the bevy of buxom lasses , with their luxurious display of red and white ; but the ample charms of a genuine Dutch country tea-table , in the sumptuous time of autumn .
Such heaped up platters of cakes of various and almost indescribable kinds , known only to experienced Dutch housewives !
There was the doughty doughnut , the tender oly koek , and the crisp and crumbling cruller ; sweet cakes and short cakes , ginger cakes and honey cakes , and the whole family of cakes .
And then there were apple pies , and peach pies , and pumpkin pies ; besides slices of ham and smoked beef ; and moreover delectable dishes of preserved plums , and peaches , and pears , and quinces ; not to mention broiled shad and roasted chickens ; together with bowls of milk and cream , all mingled higgledy-piggledy , pretty much as I have enumerated them , with the motherly teapot sending up its clouds of vapor from the midst -- Heaven bless the mark !
I want breath and time to discuss this banquet as it deserves , and am too eager to get on with my story .
Happily , Ichabod Crane was not in so great a hurry as his historian , but did ample justice to every dainty .
He was a kind and thankful creature , whose heart dilated in proportion as his skin was filled with good cheer , and whose spirits rose with eating , as some men 's do with drink .
He could not help , too , rolling his large eyes round him as he ate , and chuckling with the possibility that he might one day be lord of all this scene of almost unimaginable luxury and splendor .
Then , he thought , how soon he 'd turn his back upon the old schoolhouse ; snap his fingers in the face of Hans Van Ripper , and every other niggardly patron , and kick any itinerant pedagogue out of doors that should dare to call him comrade !
Old Baltus Van Tassel moved about among his guests with a face dilated with content and good humor , round and jolly as the harvest moon .
His hospitable attentions were brief , but expressive , being confined to a shake of the hand , a slap on the shoulder , a loud laugh , and a pressing invitation to `` fall to , and help themselves . ''
And now the sound of the music from the common room , or hall , summoned to the dance .
The musician was an old gray-headed negro , who had been the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century .
His instrument was as old and battered as himself .
The greater part of the time he scraped on two or three strings , accompanying every movement of the bow with a motion of the head ; bowing almost to the ground , and stamping with his foot whenever a fresh couple were to start .
Ichabod prided himself upon his dancing as much as upon his vocal powers .
Not a limb , not a fibre about him was idle ; and to have seen his loosely hung frame in full motion , and clattering about the room , you would have thought St. Vitus himself , that blessed patron of the dance , was figuring before you in person .
He was the admiration of all the negroes ; who , having gathered , of all ages and sizes , from the farm and the neighborhood , stood forming a pyramid of shining black faces at every door and window , gazing with delight at the scene , rolling their white eyeballs , and showing grinning rows of ivory from ear to ear .
How could the flogger of urchins be otherwise than animated and joyous ?
The lady of his heart was his partner in the dance , and smiling graciously in reply to all his amorous oglings ; while Brom Bones , sorely smitten with love and jealousy , sat brooding by himself in one corner .
When the dance was at an end , Ichabod was attracted to a knot of the sager folks , who , with Old Van Tassel , sat smoking at one end of the piazza , gossiping over former times , and drawing out long stories about the war .
This neighborhood , at the time of which I am speaking , was one of those highly favored places which abound with chronicle and great men .
The British and American line had run near it during the war ; it had , therefore , been the scene of marauding and infested with refugees , cowboys , and all kinds of border chivalry .
Just sufficient time had elapsed to enable each storyteller to dress up his tale with a little becoming fiction , and , in the indistinctness of his recollection , to make himself the hero of every exploit .
There was the story of Doffue Martling , a large blue-bearded Dutchman , who had nearly taken a British frigate with an old iron nine-pounder from a mud breastwork , only that his gun burst at the sixth discharge .
And there was an old gentleman who shall be nameless , being too rich a mynheer to be lightly mentioned , who , in the battle of White Plains , being an excellent master of defence , parried a musket-ball with a small sword , insomuch that he absolutely felt it whiz round the blade , and glance off at the hilt ; in proof of which he was ready at any time to show the sword , with the hilt a little bent .
There were several more that had been equally great in the field , not one of whom but was persuaded that he had a considerable hand in bringing the war to a happy termination .
But all these were nothing to the tales of ghosts and apparitions that succeeded .
The neighborhood is rich in legendary treasures of the kind .
Local tales and superstitions thrive best in these sheltered , long-settled retreats ; but are trampled under foot by the shifting throng that forms the population of most of our country places .
Besides , there is no encouragement for ghosts in most of our villages , for they have scarcely had time to finish their first nap and turn themselves in their graves , before their surviving friends have travelled away from the neighborhood ; so that when they turn out at night to walk their rounds , they have no acquaintance left to call upon .
This is perhaps the reason why we so seldom hear of ghosts except in our long-established Dutch communities .
The immediate cause , however , of the prevalence of supernatural stories in these parts , was doubtless owing to the vicinity of Sleepy Hollow .
There was a contagion in the very air that blew from that haunted region ; it breathed forth an atmosphere of dreams and fancies infecting all the land .
Several of the Sleepy Hollow people were present at Van Tassel 's , and , as usual , were doling out their wild and wonderful legends .
Many dismal tales were told about funeral trains , and mourning cries and wailings heard and seen about the great tree where the unfortunate Major Andr was taken , and which stood in the neighborhood .
Some mention was made also of the woman in white , that haunted the dark glen at Raven Rock , and was often heard to shriek on winter nights before a storm , having perished there in the snow .
The chief part of the stories , however , turned upon the favorite spectre of Sleepy Hollow , the Headless Horseman , who had been heard several times of late , patrolling the country ; and , it was said , tethered his horse nightly among the graves in the churchyard .
The sequestered situation of this church seems always to have made it a favorite haunt of troubled spirits .
It stands on a knoll , surrounded by locust-trees and lofty elms , from among which its decent , whitewashed walls shine modestly forth , like Christian purity beaming through the shades of retirement .
A gentle slope descends from it to a silver sheet of water , bordered by high trees , between which , peeps may be caught at the blue hills of the Hudson .
To look upon its grass-grown yard , where the sunbeams seem to sleep so quietly , one would think that there at least the dead might rest in peace .
On one side of the church extends a wide woody dell , along which raves a large brook among broken rocks and trunks of fallen trees .
Over a deep black part of the stream , not far from the church , was formerly thrown a wooden bridge ; the road that led to it , and the bridge itself , were thickly shaded by overhanging trees , which cast a gloom about it , even in the daytime ; but occasioned a fearful darkness at night .
Such was one of the favorite haunts of the Headless Horseman , and the place where he was most frequently encountered .
The tale was told of old Brouwer , a most heretical disbeliever in ghosts , how he met the Horseman returning from his foray into Sleepy Hollow , and was obliged to get up behind him ; how they galloped over bush and brake , over hill and swamp , until they reached the bridge ; when the Horseman suddenly turned into a skeleton , threw old Brouwer into the brook , and sprang away over the tree-tops with a clap of thunder .
This story was immediately matched by a thrice marvellous adventure of Brom Bones , who made light of the Galloping Hessian as an arrant jockey .
He affirmed that on returning one night from the neighboring village of Sing Sing , he had been overtaken by this midnight trooper ; that he had offered to race with him for a bowl of punch , and should have won it too , for Daredevil beat the goblin horse all hollow , but just as they came to the church bridge , the Hessian bolted , and vanished in a flash of fire .
All these tales , told in that drowsy undertone with which men talk in the dark , the countenances of the listeners only now and then receiving a casual gleam from the glare of a pipe , sank deep in the mind of Ichabod .
He repaid them in kind with large extracts from his invaluable author , Cotton Mather , and added many marvellous events that had taken place in his native State of Connecticut , and fearful sights which he had seen in his nightly walks about Sleepy Hollow .
The revel now gradually broke up .
The old farmers gathered together their families in their wagons , and were heard for some time rattling along the hollow roads , and over the distant hills .
Some of the damsels mounted on pillions behind their favorite swains , and their light-hearted laughter , mingling with the clatter of hoofs , echoed along the silent woodlands , sounding fainter and fainter , until they gradually died away , -- and the late scene of noise and frolic was all silent and deserted .
Ichabod only lingered behind , according to the custom of country lovers , to have a tte--tte with the heiress ; fully convinced that he was now on the high road to success .
What passed at this interview I will not pretend to say , for in fact I do not know .
Something , however , I fear me , must have gone wrong , for he certainly sallied forth , after no very great interval , with an air quite desolate and chapfallen .
Oh , these women !
these women !
Could that girl have been playing off any of her coquettish tricks ?
Was her encouragement of the poor pedagogue all a mere sham to secure her conquest of his rival ?
Heaven only knows , not I !
Let it suffice to say , Ichabod stole forth with the air of one who had been sacking a henroost , rather than a fair lady 's heart .
Without looking to the right or left to notice the scene of rural wealth , on which he had so often gloated , he went straight to the stable , and with several hearty cuffs and kicks roused his steed most uncourteously from the comfortable quarters in which he was soundly sleeping , dreaming of mountains of corn and oats , and whole valleys of timothy and clover .
It was the very witching time of night that Ichabod , heavy-hearted and crestfallen , pursued his travels homewards , along the sides of the lofty hills which rise above Tarry Town , and which he had traversed so cheerily in the afternoon .
The hour was as dismal as himself .
Far below him the Tappan Zee spread its dusky and indistinct waste of waters , with here and there the tall mast of a sloop , riding quietly at anchor under the land .
In the dead hush of midnight , he could even hear the barking of the watchdog from the opposite shore of the Hudson ; but it was so vague and faint as only to give an idea of his distance from this faithful companion of man .
Now and then , too , the long-drawn crowing of a cock , accidentally awakened , would sound far , far off , from some farmhouse away among the hills -- but it was like a dreaming sound in his ear .
No signs of life occurred near him , but occasionally the melancholy chirp of a cricket , or perhaps the guttural twang of a bullfrog from a neighboring marsh , as if sleeping uncomfortably and turning suddenly in his bed .
All the stories of ghosts and goblins that he had heard in the afternoon now came crowding upon his recollection .
The night grew darker and darker ; the stars seemed to sink deeper in the sky , and driving clouds occasionally hid them from his sight .
He had never felt so lonely and dismal .
He was , moreover , approaching the very place where many of the scenes of the ghost stories had been laid .
In the centre of the road stood an enormous tulip-tree , which towered like a giant above all the other trees of the neighborhood , and formed a kind of landmark .
Its limbs were gnarled and fantastic , large enough to form trunks for ordinary trees , twisting down almost to the earth , and rising again into the air .
It was connected with the tragical story of the unfortunate Andr , who had been taken prisoner hard by ; and was universally known by the name of Major Andr 's tree .
The common people regarded it with a mixture of respect and superstition , partly out of sympathy for the fate of its ill-starred namesake , and partly from the tales of strange sights , and doleful lamentations , told concerning it .
As Ichabod approached this fearful tree , he began to whistle ; he thought his whistle was answered ; it was but a blast sweeping sharply through the dry branches .
As he approached a little nearer , he thought he saw something white , hanging in the midst of the tree : he paused and ceased whistling but , on looking more narrowly , perceived that it was a place where the tree had been scathed by lightning , and the white wood laid bare .
Suddenly he heard a groan -- his teeth chattered , and his knees smote against the saddle : it was but the rubbing of one huge bough upon another , as they were swayed about by the breeze .
He passed the tree in safety , but new perils lay before him .
About two hundred yards from the tree , a small brook crossed the road , and ran into a marshy and thickly-wooded glen , known by the name of Wiley 's Swamp .
A few rough logs , laid side by side , served for a bridge over this stream .
On that side of the road where the brook entered the wood , a group of oaks and chestnuts , matted thick with wild grape-vines , threw a cavernous gloom over it .
To pass this bridge was the severest trial .
It was at this identical spot that the unfortunate Andr was captured , and under the covert of those chestnuts and vines were the sturdy yeomen concealed who surprised him .
This has ever since been considered a haunted stream , and fearful are the feelings of the schoolboy who has to pass it alone after dark .
As he approached the stream , his heart began to thump ; he summoned up , however , all his resolution , gave his horse half a score of kicks in the ribs , and attempted to dash briskly across the bridge ; but instead of starting forward , the perverse old animal made a lateral movement , and ran broadside against the fence .
Ichabod , whose fears increased with the delay , jerked the reins on the other side , and kicked lustily with the contrary foot : it was all in vain ; his steed started , it is true , but it was only to plunge to the opposite side of the road into a thicket of brambles and alder bushes .
The schoolmaster now bestowed both whip and heel upon the starveling ribs of old Gunpowder , who dashed forward , snuffling and snorting , but came to a stand just by the bridge , with a suddenness that had nearly sent his rider sprawling over his head .
Just at this moment a plashy tramp by the side of the bridge caught the sensitive ear of Ichabod .
In the dark shadow of the grove , on the margin of the brook , he beheld something huge , misshapen and towering .
It stirred not , but seemed gathered up in the gloom , like some gigantic monster ready to spring upon the traveller .
The hair of the affrighted pedagogue rose upon his head with terror .
What was to be done ?
To turn and fly was now too late ; and besides , what chance was there of escaping ghost or goblin , if such it was , which could ride upon the wings of the wind ?
Summoning up , therefore , a show of courage , he demanded in stammering accents , `` Who are you ? ''
He received no reply .
He repeated his demand in a still more agitated voice .
Still there was no answer .
Once more he cudgelled the sides of the inflexible Gunpowder , and , shutting his eyes , broke forth with involuntary fervor into a psalm tune .
Just then the shadowy object of alarm put itself in motion , and with a scramble and a bound stood at once in the middle of the road .
Though the night was dark and dismal , yet the form of the unknown might now in some degree be ascertained .
He appeared to be a horseman of large dimensions , and mounted on a black horse of powerful frame .
He made no offer of molestation or sociability , but kept aloof on one side of the road , jogging along on the blind side of old Gunpowder , who had now got over his fright and waywardness .
Ichabod , who had no relish for this strange midnight companion , and bethought himself of the adventure of Brom Bones with the Galloping Hessian , now quickened his steed in hopes of leaving him behind .
The stranger , however , quickened his horse to an equal pace .
Ichabod pulled up , and fell into a walk , thinking to lag behind , -- the other did the same .
His heart began to sink within him ; he endeavored to resume his psalm tune , but his parched tongue clove to the roof of his mouth , and he could not utter a stave .
There was something in the moody and dogged silence of this pertinacious companion that was mysterious and appalling .
It was soon fearfully accounted for .
On mounting a rising ground , which brought the figure of his fellow-traveller in relief against the sky , gigantic in height , and muffled in a cloak , Ichabod was horror-struck on perceiving that he was headless !
-- but his horror was still more increased on observing that the head , which should have rested on his shoulders , was carried before him on the pommel of his saddle !
His terror rose to desperation ; he rained a shower of kicks and blows upon Gunpowder , hoping by a sudden movement to give his companion the slip ; but the spectre started full jump with him .
Away , then , they dashed through thick and thin ; stones flying and sparks flashing at every bound .
Ichabod 's flimsy garments fluttered in the air , as he stretched his long lank body away over his horse 's head , in the eagerness of his flight .
They had now reached the road which turns off to Sleepy Hollow ; but Gunpowder , who seemed possessed with a demon , instead of keeping up it , made an opposite turn , and plunged headlong downhill to the left .
This road leads through a sandy hollow shaded by trees for about a quarter of a mile , where it crosses the bridge famous in goblin story ; and just beyond swells the green knoll on which stands the whitewashed church .
As yet the panic of the steed had given his unskilful rider an apparent advantage in the chase , but just as he had got half way through the hollow , the girths of the saddle gave way , and he felt it slipping from under him .
He seized it by the pommel , and endeavored to hold it firm , but in vain ; and had just time to save himself by clasping old Gunpowder round the neck , when the saddle fell to the earth , and he heard it trampled under foot by his pursuer .
For a moment the terror of Hans Van Ripper 's wrath passed across his mind , -- for it was his Sunday saddle ; but this was no time for petty fears ; the goblin was hard on his haunches ; and -LRB- unskilful rider that he was ! -RRB-
he had much ado to maintain his seat ; sometimes slipping on one side , sometimes on another , and sometimes jolted on the high ridge of his horse 's backbone , with a violence that he verily feared would cleave him asunder .
An opening in the trees now cheered him with the hopes that the church bridge was at hand .
The wavering reflection of a silver star in the bosom of the brook told him that he was not mistaken .
He saw the walls of the church dimly glaring under the trees beyond .
He recollected the place where Brom Bones 's ghostly competitor had disappeared .
`` If I can but reach that bridge , '' thought Ichabod , `` I am safe . ''
Just then he heard the black steed panting and blowing close behind him ; he even fancied that he felt his hot breath .
Another convulsive kick in the ribs , and old Gunpowder sprang upon the bridge ; he thundered over the resounding planks ; he gained the opposite side ; and now Ichabod cast a look behind to see if his pursuer should vanish , according to rule , in a flash of fire and brimstone .
Just then he saw the goblin rising in his stirrups , and in the very act of hurling his head at him .
Ichabod endeavored to dodge the horrible missile , but too late .
It encountered his cranium with a tremendous crash , -- he was tumbled headlong into the dust , and Gunpowder , the black steed , and the goblin rider , passed by like a whirlwind .
The next morning the old horse was found without his saddle , and with the bridle under his feet , soberly cropping the grass at his master 's gate .
Ichabod did not make his appearance at breakfast ; dinner-hour came , but no Ichabod .
The boys assembled at the schoolhouse , and strolled idly about the banks of the brook ; but no schoolmaster .
Hans Van Ripper now began to feel some uneasiness about the fate of poor Ichabod , and his saddle .
An inquiry was set on foot , and after diligent investigation they came upon his traces .
In one part of the road leading to the church was found the saddle trampled in the dirt ; the tracks of horses ' hoofs deeply dented in the road , and evidently at furious speed , were traced to the bridge , beyond which , on the bank of a broad part of the brook , where the water ran deep and black , was found the hat of the unfortunate Ichabod , and close beside it a shattered pumpkin .
The brook was searched , but the body of the schoolmaster was not to be discovered .
Hans Van Ripper as executor of his estate , examined the bundle which contained all his worldly effects .
They consisted of two shirts and a half ; two stocks for the neck ; a pair or two of worsted stockings ; an old pair of corduroy small-clothes ; a rusty razor ; a book of psalm tunes full of dog 's - ears ; and a broken pitch-pipe .
As to the books and furniture of the schoolhouse , they belonged to the community , excepting Cotton Mather 's `` History of Witchcraft , '' a `` New England Almanac , '' and a book of dreams and fortune-telling ; in which last was a sheet of foolscap much scribbled and blotted in several fruitless attempts to make a copy of verses in honor of the heiress of Van Tassel .
These magic books and the poetic scrawl were forthwith consigned to the flames by Hans Van Ripper ; who , from that time forward , determined to send his children no more to school , observing that he never knew any good come of this same reading and writing .
Whatever money the schoolmaster possessed , and he had received his quarter 's pay but a day or two before , he must have had about his person at the time of his disappearance .
The mysterious event caused much speculation at the church on the following Sunday .
Knots of gazers and gossips were collected in the churchyard , at the bridge , and at the spot where the hat and pumpkin had been found .
The stories of Brouwer , of Bones , and a whole budget of others were called to mind ; and when they had diligently considered them all , and compared them with the symptoms of the present case , they shook their heads , and came to the conclusion that Ichabod had been carried off by the Galloping Hessian .
As he was a bachelor , and in nobody 's debt , nobody troubled his head any more about him ; the school was removed to a different quarter of the hollow , and another pedagogue reigned in his stead .
It is true , an old farmer , who had been down to New York on a visit several years after , and from whom this account of the ghostly adventure was received , brought home the intelligence that Ichabod Crane was still alive ; that he had left the neighborhood partly through fear of the goblin and Hans Van Ripper , and partly in mortification at having been suddenly dismissed by the heiress ; that he had changed his quarters to a distant part of the country ; had kept school and studied law at the same time ; had been admitted to the bar ; turned politician ; electioneered ; written for the newspapers ; and finally had been made a justice of the Ten Pound Court .
Brom Bones , too , who , shortly after his rival 's disappearance conducted the blooming Katrina in triumph to the altar , was observed to look exceedingly knowing whenever the story of Ichabod was related , and always burst into a hearty laugh at the mention of the pumpkin ; which led some to suspect that he knew more about the matter than he chose to tell .
The old country wives , however , who are the best judges of these matters , maintain to this day that Ichabod was spirited away by supernatural means ; and it is a favorite story often told about the neighborhood round the winter evening fire .
The bridge became more than ever an object of superstitious awe ; and that may be the reason why the road has been altered of late years , so as to approach the church by the border of the millpond .
The schoolhouse being deserted soon fell to decay , and was reported to be haunted by the ghost of the unfortunate pedagogue and the plowboy , loitering homeward of a still summer evening , has often fancied his voice at a distance , chanting a melancholy psalm tune among the tranquil solitudes of Sleepy Hollow .
POSTSCRIPT .
FOUND IN THE HANDWRITING OF MR. KNICKERBOCKER .
The preceding tale is given almost in the precise words in which I heard it related at a Corporation meeting at the ancient city of Manhattoes , at which were present many of its sagest and most illustrious burghers .
The narrator was a pleasant , shabby , gentlemanly old fellow , in pepper-and-salt clothes , with a sadly humourous face , and one whom I strongly suspected of being poor -- he made such efforts to be entertaining .
When his story was concluded , there was much laughter and approbation , particularly from two or three deputy aldermen , who had been asleep the greater part of the time .
There was , however , one tall , dry-looking old gentleman , with beetling eyebrows , who maintained a grave and rather severe face throughout , now and then folding his arms , inclining his head , and looking down upon the floor , as if turning a doubt over in his mind .
He was one of your wary men , who never laugh but upon good grounds -- when they have reason and law on their side .
When the mirth of the rest of the company had subsided , and silence was restored , he leaned one arm on the elbow of his chair , and sticking the other akimbo , demanded , with a slight , but exceedingly sage motion of the head , and contraction of the brow , what was the moral of the story , and what it went to prove ?
The story-teller , who was just putting a glass of wine to his lips , as a refreshment after his toils , paused for a moment , looked at his inquirer with an air of infinite deference , and , lowering the glass slowly to the table , observed that the story was intended most logically to prove -- `` That there is no situation in life but has its advantages and pleasures -- provided we will but take a joke as we find it : `` That , therefore , he that runs races with goblin troopers is likely to have rough riding of it .
`` Ergo , for a country schoolmaster to be refused the hand of a Dutch heiress is a certain step to high preferment in the state . ''
The cautious old gentleman knit his brows tenfold closer after this explanation , being sorely puzzled by the ratiocination of the syllogism , while , methought , the one in pepper-and-salt eyed him with something of a triumphant leer .
At length he observed that all this was very well , but still he thought the story a little on the extravagant -- there were one or two points on which he had his doubts .
`` Faith , sir , '' replied the story-teller , `` as to that matter , I do n't believe one-half of it myself . ''
D. K .

